https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/497195.Ideas_and_Opinions
I started reading this book cause i wanted to know more about the man who postulated the theory of relativity.
The book is collection of his speeches, interviews and articles covering his views and opinions about diverse fields ranging from Physics to philosophy and life in general.
Amazed to find that most of his ideas are valid even in today's world.Einstein seems to had opinions on almost every subject and most of these were as good as those of relevant field-experts in those times!.
The book is divided into different sections like Science, Politics, Maths etc.
A good read just to have a different(and good :))perspective!
كل شيء يبدأ بفكرة، والأفكار عادة تبدأ ضعيفة، تبدو لغير صاحبها ساذجة تافهة،، لكن يقويها ايمان صاحبها الراسخ بها، دعمه لها بأساليب الاثبات العلمية، والصبر على استهانه الناس بها، الى أن يظهرها الله أو يهلك صاحبها دونها
Unbelievable. No words. Just lovely.
I read this book because I wanted to get to know Einstein a little. I'd run across several insightful quotes from him and decided to explore what he was all about. As my rating indicates, I felt this book was just "ok". The man himself was very impressive. He was definitely a humanitarian, and wanted nothing but peace. But the book is a collection of his essays and I didn't find it fascinating reading. It also seemed too repetitious at times. The last section of the book was about his "ideas &am
I read this book because I wanted to get to know Einstein a little.
I'd run across several insightful quotes from him and decided to explore what he was all about.
As my rating indicates, I felt this book was just "ok".
The man himself was very impressive.
He was definitely a humanitarian, and wanted nothing but peace.
But the book is a collection of his essays and I didn't find it fascinating reading.
It also seemed too repetitious at times.
The last section of the book was about his "ideas & opinions" on Science, which was WAY over my head and I found myself just skimming the pages to get through it.
This is what we mean when we attribute to the bodily object ‘a real existence.’ The justification of such a setting rests exclusively on the fact that, by means of such concepts and mental relations between them, we are able to orient ourselves in the labyrinth of sense impressions.
The words of the master himself. Not a biography written by someone else. Einstein's writings are fascinating. His opinions...thought provoking and invigorating. I highly recommend this book!
Whoever does not know it and can no longer wonder, no longer marvel, is as good as dead, and his eyes are dimmed.""Feeling and longing are the motive force behind all human endeavor and human creation.""Nobody, certainly, will deny that the idea of the existence of an omnipotent, just, and omnibeneficent personal God is able to accord man solace, help, and guidance; also, by virtue of its simplicitiy it is accessible to the most undeveloped mind.
That is, if this being is omnipotent, then every occurrence, including every human action, every human thought, and every human feeling and aspiration is also His work; how is it possible to think of holding men responsible for their deeds and thoughts before such an almighty being?
I never seen a man like him!Such a great mentality I ever seen in my whole life. He has different vision that the all other people around the world!!In spite of my disagreement with some of his opinions for maybe genetic factors but he still number one. On the other hand I agree with his ideals!
Algunas de las cosas que dice el libro: La mayoría ha de vivir temerosa ante la posibilidad de verse eliminada del ciclo económico, y sufrir así la falta de lo necesario.
La inteligencia y el carácter de las masas son muy inferiores a la inteligencia y al carácter de los pocos que producen algo valioso para la comunidad.
Por lo que he podido observar, el sistema de educación inglés es el que más se aproxima a este ideal.
De una persona que sólo lee los periódicos o los libros de autores contemporáneos se dice que es un miope.
I always believe that WHEN you read a particular book for the first time is akin to the first time you heard say Gershwin for the first time or Rakim.
Whatever your tastes are the timing does matter.
For me, this book mattered a great deal when I first read it.
I read this in 1995.
So one can imagine the impact a book like this can have at that age in that place.
I absorbed the book like an Iguana in the desert laying in 3 inches of water in the shade after 3 months of heat.
Did I like it?
Go, dive, explore, build your opinion; this will do service to all.
I've given this book at least a dozen times to people over the years. Wise insights and a good book to have around.
كيف لي أن أقيم آراءا ...الأراء تبقى آراءا سواء اختلفنا أو اتفقنا معها ، حتى لو كانت من شخص ذائع الصيت كآينشتاين !الملاحظة الوحيدة لي هي أن الترجمة التي قرأتها ضعيفة للغاية (ترجمة دار الفردوس).
Einstein happens to be a poetic philosopher.Here’s a range of the (non-scientific) topics Einstein discusses and the main principles of his thinking.•	God Einstein believes in “Spinoza’s God.” All is one, “the Reason that manifests itself in nature.” Essentially that the universe is God’s cloak, and we’re little dust mites that live on it.
The evidence of the Good, the True, and the Beautiful (Einstein usually capitalizes these ideas) and the dedication towards creating theories that best describe the world are his form of religious devotion.
This is a book by Albert Einstein. Unlike the rest of us, he is Einstein.Enough said.
"A Importância da Boa VontadeNo decurso da minha longa vida recebi dos meus companheiros um reconhecimento muito maior do que aquele que mereço e confesso que o meu sentido de humildade sempre se sobrepôs ao meu prazer.
Mas nunca, em ocasiões anteriores, a dor se sobrepôs tanto ao prazer como agora.
Mas, independentemente disso, e independentemente do nosso destino, podemos estar certos de que sem os esforços incansáveis daqueles que estão preocupados com o bem-estar da humanidade como um todo a maioria da espécie humana estaria muito pior do que se encontra realmente agora".
A solid collection of Einstein's writing, covering a wide variety of topics.
Not that he's "wrong" anywhere, just maybe a little too convinced that "the good guys" will win eventually in spite of all the evidence (which he cites!) that they do not?
Also, some of his ideas become a little repetitive, but that's really the editor's fault and not Einstein's.
Although I have to admit that the last section with papers on physics got *really* repetitive, I mean there are only so many ways you can tell the story of relativity.
This is a collection of writings and lectures by Albert Einstein, organised in sections, discussing ideas, politics, pacifism, the Jewish people, science and more.
Although Einstein's writing could be dense (particularly his pre-war stuff), it was generally understandable.
The science writing was beyond me.
I struggled through a lot of it, but stopped when I realised that I had read entire pages that didn't make any sense.His writing on other topics makes for interesting reading though, and it's particularly interesting to see his attitudes change post-war (and his writing becomes much easier to read at that point as well), but the science contributions defeated me.
i really pleased by reading this book of albert einstein;coz i always wanna to read different books of different peoples who have master mind, and he is also one & my first choice. no one is perfect in this world;but information makes everyone perfect. man of gr8 thought albert....sebsibe wish his friends to join his reading network. hey guys let's start.....
I found the first part of this book fantastic, the later part of the book was a bit over my head as I was not familiar with some of the other scientists theories that he was quoting from so I became a bit lost during the 2nd half of the book and had to slow my reading down to process it.
definately...some ideas hidden in our mind...and some thoughts we express by our movement and actions......fantastic work
Full of quotes and quips from a giant brain. Wholesome.
i was surprised that one of the smartest guys, let's see...ever, could write so simply. you hardly have to be polysyllabic to read this and it was a joy.
Bu adamı bu kitapla sevdim :)
A hundred times every day I remind myself that my inner and outer life are based on the labors of other men, living and dead, and that I must exert myself in order to give in the same measure as I have received and am still receiving.
He must learn to understand the motives of human beings, their illusions, and their sufferings in order to acquire a proper relationship to individual fellow-men and to the community.The pursuit of knowledge for its own sake, an almost fanatical love of justice and the desire for personal independence—these are the features of the Jewish tradition which make me thank my stars that I belong to it.

Interesting mainly as a first hand historical account of the world pre and post war. Einstein's opinions certainly reflect my own, but I confess I was pretty mostly when it became about mathematics. Which is a shame, I was hoping to get something out of it, I managed to understand Hawking's book okay, but maybe Einstein's notes just weren't designed to be read by a layman. He did use a metaphor when describing E = MC2 which was pretty helpful though. If only more of it took that route.
Einstein’s ideas on war, society, and racism is applicable today. His opinions about nuclear war written over 50 years ago seem to be a warning for today’s idiot leaders who seem hell bent on having the biggest and most destructive gun. Why should we care if the human race is exterminated? The planet will survive.
The book presents the views and opinions of the genius in his own words. I skipped some sections that were not of my interest. But overall, it is a inspiring book, that shows how even 60+ years later, we as people continue to face the same challenges and questions.
This books is a little hard to follow as it is structured by topic and not year, and is also a collection of bits and pieces and not meant to really be a whole book. It is very interesting none the less and a good read.
