https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60090.Lucia_Victrix
This volume contains three of the novels - Mapp and Lucia, Lucia's Progress and Trouble for Lucia – by E.F. Benson takes the reader to the gossipy and snobby upper-middle England of the 20s and 30s. The humorous incidents that happen when Lucia and Elisabeth Mapp battle for social and cultural supremacy in the village of Tilling will leave you glowing with the ultimate delight of reading a sparkling satire.
An excellent, comic view of small town life that shows even the protagonist in a realistic, unflattering light. Full of laughs!
I read the first of the three books contained in this anthology some time ago and found its treatment of petty squabbles and snobberies in an upper-middle class England of the 20s & 30s very entertaining. I didn't re-read it this time round, it still being fairly clear in my memory, but, as the titles imply, silly Lucia triumphs in the second and has problems to overcome, many of her own making, in the third.Reading these makes me wonder what little things that are of such vital importance to us would be snobberies and affectations to those of another time.
Read my other review of "Lucia Rising" first...In this volume of the final three books, Lucia meets her nemesis, Miss Elizabeth Mapp, and the desperate battle to become the queen bee of Tilling begins. The sneaky tricks, hypocrisies, double-dealings and back-handedness are fabulous. Meanwhile, Georgie decides to dye his beard with unfortunate results.) And in the final book, Miss Mapp and Lucia find themselves literally adrift!
Delightful story of two women vying for supreme society head. All the other characters wonderfully add to the entire scene. Two women floating out to sea on a table is such a stitch!! Gotta read it. I loved it so much I watched the series on Netflix.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/11358862
Great fun, a real treat.
Hilarious. Comedy of manners set in deliciously snobby, gossipy, upper-middle class England of the 20s/30s
Deliciously funny......Mapp is truly awful!
This book positively glistens with sharp endlessly quotable dialogue and elegant fun. Excellent. Excellent.
Witty, sparkling social comedy. It is a period piece but not at all dated. I guess that makes it a classic.
An excellent read. Would definitely recommend.
I LOVE LUCIA! (see Lucia Rising review)
laughed myself silly .....loved it and wish I could find more books by EF Benson
LOVED IT!
Not as good as Volume 1. Lucia actually became a little irritating by the end of this.
I chose the wrong volume so it's actually Vol. 1 I have just read. Can't wait for my friend to lend me Vol. 2. Very funny and fabulous observation.
2
What can I say about the Lucia series? Wonderful, waspish, witty books which lovingly construct a cast of characters and their whole society. If you haven't read them and you're a fan of Wodehouse or similar work then please try them, they're quite wonderful.
