https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/381496.Asimov_s_Mysteries
Pure genius. There simply are no other words for it.
A very recent review on this site by Nandakishore on a work by Agatha Christie explains the dilemma in trying to review mysteries.
This is also the reason why I love mysteries for you never know what awaits you at the end of the tale.
Asimov in this slim volume offers tales in this huge family tree set in futuristic cityscapes.The stories are more or less very simple in their structure.
There is also another reason why I liked this duo for they are never interested in each other's company beyond the lifetime of the mystery, a purely professional working arrangement is how they proceed.
Asimov enjoyed showing off his versatility, and even though he's best known for his SF and popular science, he could do other things too.
Maybe he should have written more of them.This book collects together his best mystery short stories, the greater part of which have an SF theme.
Recommended to anyone who likes both the SF and mystery genres.____________________________________If you've read The Billiard Ball, you may be interested to know that (view spoiler)[pretty much this scenario is examined in Randall Munroe's What If?
(It's a relativistic baseball rather than a relativistic billiard ball, but same difference).
Typical Asimov, which is only a good thing.
Oh I enjoyed it a lot! Asimov is really good, the mysteries are a lot of fun, and some are even very impressive. There's murders and regular mysteries. And I ended up liking Urth quite a lot. But as far as Asimov stories go, I prefer his Robot stories.
I'd read some of these before and enjoyed some of them anew. it's always nice to come back to some familiar characters.
Of the stories contained herein, only a few are of the kind that you, as the reader, try to guess "who done it" before it's revealed at the end.
Still others explore intriguing scientific discoveries which involve someone being murdered but only the reader knows when to all else it appears like an accident.A common theme throughout illustrates the politics, rivalry and egotism that the scientific establishment is riddled with (if Asimov is to be believed).
He certainly gives the impression that he is very knowledgeable about science and what it's like being a scientist.Worth reading for the gems but there's a few duffers to be glossed over (although a better knowledge of the science involved might improve their reading).
Aunque todos estos relatos están marcados por el misterio, los delitos y demás tintes detectivescos, me ha parecido una recopilación un tanto irregular. He disfrutado muchísimo con algunos (el que más, «Nota necrológica») y con otros me he quedado a cuadros de lo poco que entendía (maldita Oca). Pero en general me han gustado mucho, sobre todo por los aportes del propio Asimov al principio o al final de cada relato. Todo lo que puedo decir es: «¡Vaya, es estupendo ser lectora de ciencia ficción!».
There's no standout stories in this collection from Asimov. Some of the story settings are interesting but the mystery/crime is underwhelming.If I had to pick a favourite, it'd be 'Marooned Off Vesta' & 'Anniversary'. They are connected and were the most fun read of the collection.
Clever page turning compilation of Asimov science fiction mystery short stories. A worthwhile read for fans of the master. I don't know if the Professor Urth stories were ever expanded on, but I found them very clever. Professor Urth is a veritable 23rd century Sherlock Holmes, with a phobia of travel to boot.
Asimov siempre me ha parecido un escrito algo vanidoso, se cree el mejor que hay... pero es que realmente el cabrón es muy muy bueno. En esta recopilación hay varios 5, casi todo 4 y como mucho un 3. Qué bien mezclado está el misterio con la sci fi, y los comentarios de Asimov entre relato y relato le dan mucho caché al libro. Me ha encantado. Especialmente Obituary, The billiard Ball y los 3 relatos de Wendell Urth
First, let me excerpt from the introduction in order to bring you in on what The Master's thoughts were on blending sci-fi and mystery:...it was the mystery form that seemed most difficult to amalgamate with science fiction.
One would think that science fiction would blend easily with the mystery.
Science itself is so nearly a mystery and the research scientist so nearly a Sherlock Holmes.And if we want to reverse things, are there not mysteries that make use of the "scientific mind?" R.
In a science fiction story, the detective could say, "But as you know, Watson, ever since 2175, when all Spaniards learned to speak French, Spanish has been a dead language.
Marooned Off Vesta and Anniversary is a combination of two stories, the second one of which was written as a sequel on the preceding story's twentieth anniversary of its publication.
Anniversary continues, as the characters from the first story meet up on the twentieth anniversary of their events in the first story.
The two combine together to exhibit the element of mystery.Obituary deals with murder using an experimental time-travel phenomenon.
An amazing story.The Key is a well devised mystery tale, which also discusses about a certain group of extremists with their idea about of reducing the global population by ninety-nine percent through killing.
This short story collection was a mixed bag, and not up to Asimov's usual standards.
But there were a few gems near the end, especially Obituary.The Singing Bell - 2/5.
Meh. Decent setup, banal ending.The Talking Stone - 3/5.
Fabulous twist, even if there was a bit too much jargon thrown in.The Dust of Death - 2/5.
Meh.A Loint of Paw : 4/5.
Just two pages, but delivers.
An editor claimed that Asimov was incapable of writing 'naughty' stories.
Resounding meh.
The only good thing about this one was its length (4 pages).
This volume contains 14 short stories, all by the science fiction master, Isaac Asimov, and all previously published in magazines of the day such as “Astounding Science Fiction”, “The Magazine of Fantasy and Science Fiction”, “Amazing Stories” “The Saint Detective Magazine” and even “Scientific American”.
Asimov, of course was well known as a professor of biochemistry at Boston University as well as a knowledgeable physicist in his own right so readers should expect a healthy dose of science in his stories.
Asimov was one of those writers I started as a tween, and amongst others built my love for reading, and always carries much affection in my heart as a result.He was always writing mysteries, it forms the bulk of his work, whatever some idiot reviewers on here will pretend, both straight and sci-fi, most of his robot stories were mysteries after all.
These are a collection of his sci fi mystery shorts, none robot related.
Loved him as a 10 year old, before even science was taught at all, so everyone can enjoy.It gets dragged down by his inane forwards, his cringy attempts at humour, and his love of puns.
Tenho que confessar que ao início me desiludi um pouco com os mistérios apresentados, por não estar minimamente habituada à maneira como foram contados (todos eles de maneira diferente), mas depois comecei a apreciar cada conto exatamente por isso.
Asimov traz-nos várias narrativas curtas, e apesar de acessíveis e muito inteligentes, de modo que pretendo reler o livro quando melhorar os meus conhecimentos de física.
Uma coisa que me espantou bastante foram algumas das "invenções" apresentadas que me remeteram para alguma da tecnologia que temos hoje.
Decididamente são histórias que envelheceram muito bem e por isso pretendo agora ler a grande obra do autor.
This one's a nice collection of science fiction mysteries, written by Dr. Isaac Asimov. Well, mostly. One tale, "Marooned Off Vesta", isn't a mystery tale, but rather it's included because its sequel, "Anniversary", is one. Another tale, "A Loint of Paw", isn't a mystery either--it's a courtroom drama that is simply a set up for a pun. But since it's only two pages long, I don't feel cheated. All in all, this book is good, classic science fiction, well worth reading.
Isaac Asimov was a fine science fiction writer and an author of many popular books on science and other subjects. Here, he tries his hand on science fiction mysteries. The end result is positive. He teases the reader. He is not so good at developing living and breathing characters. But he has provocative ideas. Worth a read for those who enjoy sci-fi mystery.
Aunque desde luego se advierten los tintes detectivescos en la serie de los robots, no conocía que el autor tuviera especial interés por el género policial y, la verdad, los relatos que recoge este volumen y las explicaciones del propio autor me hacen admirarlo más si cabe.Este volumen contiene cuentos policiales de lo más clásicos en cuanto al lector se le informa de un crimen y éste se ve inmerso igual que el detective en descubrir al culpable («Cuando muere la noche»), relatos en que se narran los movimientos y acciones del criminal y el misterio está meramente en cómo lo descubren en función de qué aspecto no quedó tan oculto como creía («Polvo mortal», «La campana armoniosa»), memorias que dan giros sorprendentes al final al aflorar la venganza («Nota necrológica»), parodias del ejercicio científico («Pâté de foie gras»), tragedias («Luz estelar)» y hasta un microcuento («Una estratagema inédita»).
Reseña: https://www.fabulantes.com/2018/04/es..."Otro aspecto recurrente en Asimov, y que volvemos a tener también aquí, es el tipo de planteamientos lógicos a que nos reta en sus distintos cuentos.
En ellos, se insiste mayoritariamente en la competencia entre científicos (directa o indirecta, patente o latente) como motor de las distintas tramas, y se plantean enigmas donde las leyes de la física o la bioquímica son fundamentales para su resolución, pero siempre situando en el centro al método científico y a la lógica hipotético-deductiva, lo que tiene un lado positivo y otro negativo.
Asimov's Mysteries, published in 1968, is a collection of 14 short stories by Isaac Asimov, all of them science fiction mysteries (although, as Asimov admits in the introduction, some are only borderline).
The stories were all originally published in magazines between 1954 and 1967.
Four stories in the collection feature the character of Wendell Urth, who is a leading extra-terrologist (an expert on alien worlds and life originating on them).
In a fifth story in the collection, The Dust of Death, Asimov shows Davenport a generosity that Conan Doyle never extended to Lestrade in demonstrating the former's ability to solve a case for himself without outside assistance.**
Y encima se come uno de los mejores, si no el mejor de todos los cuentos del libro: "Anniversary", en el que los protagonistas de "Marooned off Vesta" celebran el veinte centenario de su salvación con una fiesta en la casa de uno de ellos, ya en la Tierra.
Y resulta que se trata del mejor Asimov, a la altura de sus mejores obras."Marooned off Vesta" creo que es el primer cuento que publicó Asimov, y en la edición de Anaya van y lo omiten.
Esta edición no cita el (C) del origen de las historias (como hace la original), aparte del cambio del título, de "Asimov's Misteries" al del de uno de los cuentos de la recopilación, y no precisamente el mejor de todos.
Pero claro, así cualquier adolescente lleno de espinillas sabe que el libro va de ciencia ficción.Y para más inri, como ya he comentado antes, faltan tres cuentos, que por suerte voy a leer ya que también poseo la edición de Panther en inglés original.Y sí, ¿qué pasa?
Me lo he leído de una sentada en poco más de una mañana, y encima comparando con la edición original.
Overall a good collection of short stories with a couple duds.
Particularly underwhelming were the "who did it?" mysteries solved by some geeky scientific property or observation.
The more mediocre stories were partially redeemed by the colorful Wendell Urth who was often consulted by detectives to make sense of shards of evidence.
I was surprised by Asimov's portrayal of the envy and rivalry within the scientific community.
The tension between the practical and the theoretical - in the Billiard Ball - I could see but I didn't expect to read of such egos in academia.

Buenos relatos policíacos, al más puro estilo Asimov. Algunos acusan el paso del tiempo en sus propuestas futuristas, pero no por eso dejan de ser entretenidos. En muchos casos bastaría cambiar el nombre de la tecnología sin tener que retocar el desarrollo de la historia. Muy contento con esta recopilación del autor.
I've never really been into mysteries but I thought I'd give this one a try because it's Asimov. I like his writing but still can't get into the whole mystery thing. There were a couple stories ('Obituary' and 'The Billard Ball') that really caught my attention and I found to be very interesting but mostly I was like, ehh.
Fabulous good fun! Clarke and Asimov were the original 'scientist' science fiction writers. Their stories were always based on fundamental, potential, real science, making their work interesting in many ways. These stories are some of the best Asimov ever wrote. They are, actually, science fiction Mysteries.
Historias cortas que me han sabido a poco pero que me han recordado por qué me encanta este autor.
