https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10846336-salvage-the-bones
And there are long stretches at the end of this book when I cannot take my horrified eyes from the page, when I feel my insides crumbling and my heart breaking and my memories reeling and I know I have read something extraordinary.Jesmyn Ward just gives us words, but words like none other has written.
Katrina hits and we experience the storm.This is classic literature, and, difficult as it may seem at first, wholly appropriate for teens.
It is a little like saying A Long Way Gone: Memoirs of a Boy Soldier by Ishmael Beah is a teen title.
The outstanding writing abilities of Jesamyn Ward are indisputable in this emotionally visceral powerhouse of a novel, epic in scope, pitching the indomitable spirit of a family to survive, against all the odds, with the destructive and devastating monster of nature that is Hurricane Katrina, wreaking havoc on the Mississipi coastal town of Bois Sauvage.
The narrative spans twelve days, in which Ward establishes the gritty and brutal circumstances of the family and its characters, attempting to build up supplies and water, limited by the options open to them, and the coming of and aftermath of Katrina.Esch has been enjoying sex for a while, driven by her search for love, but is drawn to one person in particular.
Most of the book takes place a few days before Hurricane Katrina....set in a small town in Mississippi.
Skeetah tries to save his dog, China's, pit bull's litter but they were sick...not an easy scene to take in...yet - again -- themes keep tie together up to the end...Randal, the other brother, is a gifted basketball player who dreams of having a professional career.......but it's Esch's story as the only girl in this family who I still am left thinking about.
For three days 'before' the hurricane hits we see this family, 'all' trying to survive challenging situations and poverty....
poor, rural black people appear in movies and books only as color.
there are just not a lot of places where you get to see rural black folks in their communities as fully developed characters with rich, interesting and complex lives.
my personal experience proves nothing, of course, but i think i've encountered these people only in slave literature -- and then they were not these people at all (i'm mentioning them only because they were black, rural, and poor)!
if our culture does anything about poor rural (and urban) black communities, it teaches us to be afraid of them.
I couldn't dull the edges and fall in love with my characters and spare them.
These words are tears that have not been shed, so they build up on the inside and fill up buckets of anguish:I learned how to cry so that almost no tears leaked out of my eyes, so that I swallowed the hot salty water of them and felt them running down my throat.Hurricane Katrina is twelve days away.
And in The Pit, these survivors know all about fighting back.
They fight to live, fight to love; maybe this is what the book is about - the unrelenting will to survive, to fight despite the obstacle.
Unfortunately, I felt like I was reading an extended undergrad creative writing piece, not an award winning author. The language is just so hard to get through-everything is a simile. I counted 3 uses of "like" to describe someone or something in one short paragraph. I had to slog my way through it, but I did find there were parts that intrigued me more than others and did want to read on, thus not a total dislike.
A dog, China, becomes a Mother in a very detailed birthing sequence, a young teen, Esch, learns she is going to be a Mother, and Motherless children prepare for a Hurricane in between attending dog fights, fighting among themselves and caring for their drunk father.
Junior is the youngest and is basically looked after by his older siblings.Teen pregnancy, puppies being born, dog fighting, a drunk father, poverty and a hurricane make for a raw and gritty book.
The beauty in this book is in the beautiful writing, that and the love of a boy for his dog.
With 2017 being the most deadly year in U.S. history for hurricanes, and Jesmyn Ward ONCE AGAIN winning the National Book Award for "Sing, Unburied Sing," I figured it was well past time for me to read her debut novel, "Salvage the Bones." And my goodness...
The book exudes that southern heat that comes in the hours and days before a monster storm, the vivid landscape of this rural, poor fictional Mississippi town is alive on every page.
This is a novel, though fiction, that should be shared with so many in our polarized culture.
He’s tossing a basketball outside with her brother.“I wondered if Medea felt this way before she walked out to meet Jason for the first time, like a hard wind come through her and set her to shaking.
It was her escape, no doubt, but I was worrying along with her father about the hurricane warnings!I also found myself beginning to skim long sections where the boys are playing basketball or the dogs are fighting, and I mean FIGHTING.
The wind sounded like a train , my mother said every time she told me the story, and even though the metaphor made sense, I couldn’t hear it..
This is a story about familial love - each doing the best they can, living in wretched conditions and the lengths they will go to protect and sacrificing for one another.Knowing that the author, Jesmyn Ward, lived through Hurricane Katrina makes the story even more meaningful to me.
Ward says she used the word Salvage in the title because it sounded so much like savage, "to remind readers what this family, and people like this family, are left with after tragedy."These characters, and their story, will stay with me a long, long while!!*There are some horrific animal scenes in this book - one I admit to skimming heavily.
Quite simply, the author touched my heart and I was brought to tears more than once.Amidst the poverty and the grief, a very real danger is on its way: Hurricane Katrina.
I appreciated the afterward where she talks of her experience.The book is extremely gritty and some parts were difficult to read, especially the dog fighting (I skimmed those pages).
But in the midst of the ugliness is beauty in the love and bond between the siblings, and the bond between Skeetah and his dog.
Thankfully, the book ended on a hopeful note.* The gritty scenes with dog fighting were difficult but important for the plot.
It is so exciting when I read a book that I know will be with me forever.
Salvage the Bones seemed at first to be in the same vein as Beans of Egypt, Maine, Bastard Out of Carolina, or The Book of Ruth.
Her writing is gorgeous (as one of the characters is racing through the woods his legs are described as looking like black ribbons) and the story is a timeless one: familial love and allegiance and impending doom/disaster (in this case, the days leading up to Hurricane Katrina).
The way that Esch and her brothers love and nurture one another gives the reader a sense of optimism.
And the use of Greek mythology to examine Esch's experiences and relationships is absolute.
Esch e i suoi sono afroamericani e sono poverissimi, il padre è depresso e alcolista, la madre è morta di parto alla nascita del piccolo Junior (che gioca e salta curioso di ogni cosa), lasciando i cari tra amore e dolore; il maggiore, Randall, gioca a basket e cerca con lo sport di aprirsi le porte del college, Skeetah invece, secondo protagonista della storia, è primordiale e istintivo e nutre una passione smisurata per il suo cane, una femmina di pitbull di nome China, cane da combattimento che ha appena avuto la prima cucciolata.
Seguo Randall intorno alla casa, perché è l'unica cosa che posso fare; se questo significa essere forte o debole non lo so, ma è quello che faccio.
I have a full-fledged author crush on Jesmyn Ward - this woman has supernatural powers.
It is essential to this story, though, and if you can hang with it, you will be rewarded with a rich reading experience you won't soon forget.This was a 5 for me until the last few chapters.
I thought the book lost steam at the end a little; I was expecting a powerful and gut wrenching conclusion, but it ended much more softly that I anticipated.
A 4.5 for sure - if you haven't read this yet and are a fan of strong storytelling and writing so luscious it is almost a character, do pick this one up.
Without a hint of pretension, in the simple lives of these poor people living among chickens and abandoned cars, she evokes the tenacious love and desperation of classical tragedy.The force that pushes back against Katrina’s inexorable winds is the voice of Ward’s narrator, a 14-year-old girl named Esch, the only daughter among four siblings.
Or is true love closer to what her older brother Skeetah feels for his pit bull, China?That relationship between a boy and his dog was the genesis of Ward’s novel, and it remains the most striking aspect of the story.
Unfortunately, I couldn't finish this one. The writing was beautiful and it was a story of family which I love. This was a case of I should have read the synopsis. Sometimes I skip those so I can be surprised but the dog fighting and sick puppies were too much for me. I tried skipping those parts on the audio but I ended up having to skip too often. I will definitely read other books by this author because I like her style.Summer 2017 Read #20
Il padre è una presenza col solo valore intimidatorio e conseguente alle continue sbornie a cui si abbandona.In Mississippi s’impara presto a convivere con gli uragani ma siamo nell’agosto del 2005 e circola la voce che qualcosa di più grande si stia avvicinando.Così mentre ci si prepara – dapprima con incredula svogliatezza e poi in un crescendo di ansia- la vita trascinata di questi ragazzi senza futuro continua.L’assenza materna è il fulcro per cui si riversa la propria sofferenza e il bisogno di amore su altro.Esch vive un amore sbagliato come quello di Medea per Giasone.Randall cerca un appiglio nello sport che potrebbe farlo entrare in un college e quindi fuoriuscire dalla Fossa.Skeetah vive un rapporto ossessivo con China la cagna pittbull che combatte con altri cani.
Come Argonauti nel bayou I dodici giorni che precedono la devastazione dell'uragano Katrina, nell'en
And she is pregnant.This is also a story about China, a pit bull that Esch's brother Skeetah loves with a passion.
Although he fights her against other dogs, China has his heart.A hurricane is coming.
And then there is the biggest mother of all: Katrina, destroying everything in her path.This is a gripping book.
I think of how the rest of us forget these tragedies after a while, go on to the next disaster, but for the people who survived it must be a never-ending presence in their lives.Jesmyn Ward survived Hurricane Katrina.
I wasn't blown away by Ward's writing, which I did not find poetic or beautiful (Kundera is my standard for breathtaking prose).
However, the story line is solid and Ward tries to give an acute portrayal of the twelve days leading up to Katrina for the Batiste family.There are many reasons this novel didn't work.
It's incredibly hard for me to relate to Esch, despite her unrequited love, her coming of age, and her blossoming motherhood.
Either way, the only winner is Skeetah and China, and what Ward captures with these two is a wondrous love between man and dog that even Katrina can't destroy.
3 starsWard seems the be the master of writing deeply depressing poor American families.
In this gruelling case, a young family of children and their alcoholic dad are trying to find love (possibly in all the wrong places), and make their own unique footprint in the sand.
I probably would not have read this book given the feedback I had received about some of the more horrific dog fighting, but I chose to read it because of the author being in the limelight at the moment.
I'm glad that I read it, but would caution anyone looking for a feel-good book.
Update: I did it. I finished it. I skimmed over some spots, but read it, I did. Right to the end. The ending that I am going to believe was a happy one. Yes.__________This book seethes with brutality - implied, overt - and I turn each page with my heart in my throat, steeling myself for what is to come.Kids, dogs subject to abuse, trauma, neglect. Can't do it. It's beautifully written, even poetic in places, but I can't do it.
Brutal and savage story told almost entirely in the present tense. I found it both repelling and compelling. In my opinion it had little to do with Katrina (the hurricane) and more to do about surviving in a savage land. Most of the descriptive writing is eloquent, but at times it could have used better editing. Now I'm looking for something that does not use the word detritus once.
Great writing (5 stars)!!!Took off one (1) star for the animal cruelty.
So good. So devastating.
"Salvage the Bones" by Jesmyn Ward is a slow malting novel that takes time to mature, but come the end, all the characterisation and scene building fuses together in 1 perfect explosion.
"Salvage the Bones" is about a family preparing for a storm to hit but really it is not about the storm at all.
I didn't realise how much the characters had touched my heart until I was sobbing like a baby at the end.
It was extremely slow to build up and finally feel the way I felt for the characters.
The novel has within it the possibility to occasion a sincere and thoughtful look at the root and reason of the Mississippi Gulf Coast's systemic poverty, especially in the face of a natural disaster like Katrina that only served to magnify the area's indigence.
And though Ward illustrates the poverty faced by Esch and her family anecdotally throughout the novel over and over again, I never felt she fully communicated that what Hurricane Katrina, as it neared closer with every chapter, threatened to destroy was a community already destroyed, dismantled, disenfranchised, and disenchanted by pre-existing conditions having nothing to do with natural disaster.
I went to grad school with Jesmyn Ward and have been a fan of her work for years--so I expected to love this book. But I had no idea how deeply it would move me. Some lines stayed with me for days after I'd finished reading it. I couldn't stop thinking about Esch and her family, the grittiness of their world, and the fierceness of their love for each other.
This book just earned a spot on my list of all-time favorites.It is the story of fourteen year old Esch and her family who live in the Bois Sauvage in rural Mississippi.
They live on "The Pit," a destitute and wild place, as almost feral children.I fell in love with Esch and her brothers, particularly Skeetah, who is driven nearly mad in his attempt to keep his beloved fighting pit-bull, China, alive after she gives birth to puppies.
I found myself aching for each of them as they sought the simplest of things: attention, love, survival.I have never read something so beautiful about subject matter that is so difficult: dog-fighting, rural poverty, and teenage sex.
Wow, this was a rough book to read from page one.
But what I really didn’t get was the whole point of the book at the end.
It was just a story that read like a colorful newspaper account of an event – with lots of added cuss words and sex.
I didn’t feel more connected to the characters after reading it.
It was about people feeling and living like animals and treating animals better than humans.
Big Henry was the only character with any tiny glimpse of humanity, and it just wasn’t enough in a story where characters value pit bulls eating each others faces off as their main purpose in life.
