https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/133454.Jhereg
The job has to be done quickly before word of this theft can get out and make the Jhereg look “weak.” Since Vlad is a skilled assassin, the job doesn’t seem like a big deal until he discovers that his target has taken refuge in Castle Black, as a guest of Morrolan the Dragon lord.
Indeed, Jhereg is so modern in tone that it can just as readily be enjoyed as a contemporary mafia story rather than a fantasy; if the “fantasy” elements bore you, all one must do is just imagine it is all taking place in New York City as opposed to another world.
Ehr. Mah. Gerd. Vlad Taltos. Oh what’s that? Is that a badass name for a badass main character? Why yes, yes it is. Look at that name. Look at it. It fits him perfectly. Clear. Concise.  Ominous . You know your MC is a badass when he’s in the middle of an internal monologue and subtly lets slip that he’s been (view spoiler)[killed and resurrected (hide spoiler)] before and then just keeps on talking like it’s no big deal. I was all “La-la-la, this story is neato!” but then "Wait. Wut?” I had to
. You know your MC is a badass when he’s in the middle of an internal monologue and subtly lets slip that he’s been (view spoiler)[killed and resurrected
(hide spoiler)] before and then just keeps on talking like it’s no big deal.
His wife is just one of many badass females in this story.
It’s too good and there’s no way in hell I’ll do it justice.
Just know that the worldbuilding is strong without ever feeling like an info-dump, the descriptions of magic are detailed without ever being overwhelming and the plot is superb.
I carried myself rather well, thank you.”Buddy read with Anne and Kathie!
What Jhereg delivered was totally unexpected.F and N was a beautiful literary work that obviously suffers in its readership by being written by a pair of Sci-Fi/Fantasy authors.
But there is little "literary" in the first of the Vlad Taltos books, but that doesn't make it any less readable.
Jhereg is a bit like a fantasy detective story, or a "fantasy noir" (as I called it earlier), with assassin/crime boss/information collector Vlad Taltos taking the role of obligatory hardbitte detective from the works of Dashiel Hammett or Mickey Spillane.
The recent release of Iorich sent me down the path of re-reading the Taltos series.
While Iorich was enjoyable and engrossing, memories sent me back to the inaugural Vlad.
Sophisticated writing, interesting characters and one seriously convoluted plot.
It's interesting, because this is the fourth book in the timeline of the series and Vlad's history, but actually the first published (echoes of Lucas).
As the series continues, Brust starts playing in interesting ways with narrative, so it helps to already have a solid grip on the basics.
We get some of Vlad's early years, and we are given the background on his initial connection with Loiosh.
The kind of good that makes you anxious to get to the next book.
The kind of good that makes you glad there are over ten books in the series.
The kind of good that makes me not care about book orders.
Maybe it's a good thing these books are written out of order?--is a thing I never thought I'd say.
So far from what I've gleaned on various forums and reviews, the publication order is completely different from the chronological order.*more twitching*But the order in which you read these books does not matter.
While there was nothing absolutely mind-blowing about the plot or the fantasy, the one thing that really stood out in this book was the fantastic writing.It was absolutely some of the easiest reading I've had for an obviously detailed and fleshed out world full of lots of magic, interesting races, very long lived people, and dragons.
I learned so much about the world, naturally, that I was giddy after the reading.Is it because I've grown very used to the tropes involved, over so many years of enjoying fantasy?
Dragons?
Tons and tons of magic?
They're pretty damn fantastic and smart.
5.0 stars. The Vlad Taltos series is one thst I strongly recommend to anyone who likes good fantasy. I would classify it as "noir" fantasy with a good sense of humor. Great world-building, great characters and well-written, tight plots that do not drag and are never boring. As good as all that is, it is the main character of Vlad Taltos (assassin, witch and rogue) and his "jhereg" familiar that make the series so special. Highly recommended.
I originally gave this 4 stars, although I've read it numerous times & really enjoyed it.
Now that I've read most of the rest of the series, I see on a re-read that the craftsmanship of this story demands another star.
Because the author couldn't have picked a better way to introduce the reader to an entirely new world & mythology.
The story demands our likable anti-hero, Vlad Taltos, look deeply into another character.
Not only is it entirely entertaining & fast moving, but I had no trouble at all remembering odd names & characters.
Keep in mind I had almost nothing but free time and I read three to four books a day.
Yes, there are good foods, and yes, someday you'll try them, but why not eat the thing that you love best, particularly when it is perfectly prepared every time?Jhereg was one of those thirty books.
I know I didn't get the complexity of his relationship with his Dragaeran friends; I only saw that they were friends, something that this most recent re-read in internal chronological order makes even more complex.And reading in that order blows my mind.
Now it's on to Teckla, which I dread.Read 10/6/14: How many times have I read this book?
I have introduced countless friends to his work, specifically his collaboration Freedom and Necessity, but to the Taltos books too, yet I found myself wondering all the way through this if he is as sustaining as a bowl of fried rice at an MSG-laden Chinese Food restaurant.
But I can't help thinking, "Who cares?" I love fried rice at bad Chinese food restaurants.
And if you read Freedom and Necessity you'll see where that true love comes from.
The book gives some creative back story that explains the difference between the two schools of magic.
Like many current fantasy novels, the Dragaera are organized into different houses, each named after an animal.
He is a human that belongs to the Dragaera house of Jhereg because his father bought them their title with all of his earnings.Vlad is very likable and his diverse background of being raised in the west in the house Jhereg, while also being trained in the Eastern ways by his grandfather, make him a formidable force.
It takes a while for the pieces of the story to come together, but when they do the payoff is great.I really enjoyed this first book and now am a fan of Steven Brust...Bring on more Vlad...
Vlad Taltos has a familiar which happens to be a jhereg, a miniature dragon-like creature.
And, no surprise with Brust characters, Loiosh is quite the smartass.
Witty banter between familiar and master, along with a great cast of hirelings and allies makes this a book to keep the reader guessing, on the edge of his/her seat, and occasionally laughing.The fight scenes were great, I wasn't surprised to later read that Brust took lessons in fencing, as he was able to describe the swordfights in quite a vivid manner.
Add a touch of The Three Musketeers to that adventure/heist/fantasy description.On to more Vlad adventures!
This is the third in my list of books that inspired me to start writing fantasy and in many ways is the most influential.
The thing is, deep down Vlad really wants to be a nice guy.
Now it's true that the list of people Vlad needs to kill includes pretty much the entire Dragaeran Empire, but he's willing to leave a few off the list if they change their ways.
In fact, Jhereg was the book that taught me you could write fantasy without having your characters talk in fake British accents and spouting thee's and thou's every sentence.
This is a very well written book with nice action and magic. A sort of cheeky modern story in a fantasy world. It's just not my particular cup of tea!
The exception is the house of Jhereg (named after a small dragon-like creature) which is a low-class conglomerate of outcasts from other clans and also any true humans who can buy their way in, which is what Vlad Taltos’ father did.
Each of Brusts’ novels in this series is named after one of the Dragaeran houses.In this first installment, Jhereg, we meet Vlad Taltos and his familiar, Loiosh, the jhereg who can communicate with him through mind-speech.
(Yet, Brust’s world is so complex and detailed that some readers may wish for an online resource such as this helpful Wikipedia entry, and several fan-made Dragaera sites that you can easily find with a Google search.)Audible Frontiers’ version was narrated by Bernard Setaro Clark.
What I ended up with was a cheeky, magical, modern-day assassin mystery that blew my socks off.Highly interesting characters and plot-lines, it was an extremely fast-paced novel that keeps you page-turning to the very end.
Trouble is, if you blink or get distracted for even a moment (as I am wont to do) you’ll likely miss something important and plot-advancing – so stay focused!Initially, I thought a draw-back to this series was the lack of attention on setting.
The author has a good fusion of fantasy and mystery that really maintained my attention.
4.5 stars. Full review to come on my channel. I will say this is a really promising start to what I think will be a great fantasy series.
An old school type fantasy that I enjoyed, but it didn't convince me that I need to read any more of the series.
It introduces us to Vladimir Taltos, an Easterner (human) working as a killer-for-hire in the House of Jhereg in a setting where his kind are barely tolerated by a race of long-lived, statuesque sorcerers called the Dragaerans (or, as my friend told me, just think of them as "elves"!) Being a Jhereg doesn't help either, since their faction is like the mafia of the Dragaeran world.One day, a powerful Jhereg boss offers Vlad a lucrative contract to track down and assassinate a council member who stole millions of gold from the house.
I've had this (and I believe 2 of the novels that follow it) on my shelves waiting to be read for years.
Novels are after all fiction and the vast majority are written and read simply for enjoyment, and this one is enjoyable.
But that's a small gripe.I will say that I was a bit surprised to find myself able to read at least somewhat sympathetically the character who is an assassin.
Rating it, as I do especially in the case of light fiction or "brain-candy" books on enjoyment factor and how it held my interest...4 stars.
When I got this book, it sat on my shelf for quite a while.
I knew nothing about the book, and just by the title and description, it sounded kinda lame.
I finally picked it up, because it's a short one and I had just finished a massive book and needed something a little lighter.So with that preamble, I can't tell you how surprised I was at how good this one is!
It's fun as hell to read, and the characters are really great.
Everything about this book is splendid.
It almost reads like a detective novel, but only in parts.
This is edge of your seat kind of stuff.This is a solid 5 star book.
Interesting things, things that move the story forward.Jhereg is a book where nothing happens, and is incredibly dull about the whole thing.Damn near every scene in this book features the main character slowly, and bored soundingly narrating (it was an audio version so maybe that changes it) some menial thing about world building, or a more interesting story, or a future plan, and then he speaks to someone.
First person fantasy books have the advantage that the prose and exposition can be looked at in-character, or with a sense of difference to it.
The worldbuilding is a bit sparse at times, but in the end a lot is revealed and fleshed out, and I left the book feeling as though I had a pretty good understanding of the world, characters and races, without ever feeling like there was an infodump or that I was being hit over the head by the information.
He did not overuse the powers that the characters had, or use things like Loiosh as an "easy button" or "get out of jail free" card.
That said, I liked it a lot, thought it was a fun read, and would continue in this series.
Steven Brust's first entry in his Vlad Taltos is an entertaining fantasy tale of assassination.
I was first made aware of this series when I read What Makes This Book So Great by Jo Walton.
Brust almost introduces too much into the world in this first book.
Vlad Taltos, assassin & 'legitimate' business owner, gets hired to take out a noble who stole a very large amount of gold.
From the start, Vlad knows it won't be an easy job, but, as the book progresses, it becomes clear that it will be difficulty for many larger reasons.
I will definitely read the 2nd book, Yendi, but availability may be a problem.
Picked this one up on a whim - turned out totally into it from start to finish.Witch that is a mafia don? CheckAdorable and snarky little dragon familiar? CheckVery intricate world building that you don't even notice because it's done so well? CheckOld school fantasy fluff? CheckWould have been totally satisfied if this one a standalone. Very happy that it isn't. :)
Ages ago, I read Jo Walton’s reviews of the Vlad Taltos books and resolved to read them immediately.
There’s a lot going on in this world, and I really want to read more of the books to get a better grasp on it.
In the meantime, Vlad Taltos himself is snarky, moderately capable, and definitely capable of getting himself into trouble.
A winning combination – even without Looish, his jhereg companion.It’s a fun beginning, which leaves a lot of questions unanswered (and sometimes even barely posed).
This time, I mean it; I’ve gotta get on and read the rest!Reviewed for The Bibliophibian.
Brust does such a good job making these slim novels engaging and multifaceted. Fun capers, interesting character development and relationships, foreshadowing, meditations on free will and morality. Jhereg, while not the best in the series, is a very good book; there's a reason why this is the fourth or fifth time I've read it.
But luckily Vlad has a small cadre of friends of varied talents to call upon, including his assassin wife, and his psychically bonded pet jhereg (a sort of miniature dragon).Vlad is also living proof that not all assassin characters have to be darkly brooding, friendless loners.
One major reason why I'm likely to read more of this series is to find out just how Vlad is such an ally of questionable dragaerans like the character Morollan.
Hopefully later books in the series will explore Vlad's past in greater detail.In summation, this is a lighthearted yet detailed fantasy romp, with some good worldbuilding and a troop of interesting characters.
This was a fun read, a mystery/caper fantasy story about an assassin who accepts a challenging job that turns out to be even more dangerous and consequential than he expects.I enjoyed the lighthearted tone of the narrative, and I liked Vlad's first-person account.
I'm okay with the cliché of a psychically linked animal companion, but a fierce, venomous, intelligent miniature dragon should not speak like a smartass human sidekick, (telepathically) saying things like "Whatever you say, boss".I liked this well enough that I ordered the next few books.If you're interested by the idea of a caper story in a fantasy setting, try The Lies of Locke Lamora.
This book took me a while to get around to, but was well worth the ride.It covers a rather grim society of Dragerans (more like particularly evil, seven-foot elves) and humans-beneath-notice, neither of which seem to view death as much more than an inconvenience.
The Jhereg do 'work' for the right price (everything from petty larceny to wetwork), and if you pay them enough will even visit permanent 'Morganti' death upon one's enemies if the price is high enough.Vlad Taltos is one of the Jhereg, a human no less, who is one of the best of the best.
