https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1509486.Ein_Landarzt_und_andere_Prosa
Well that was stranger than I had expected.Maybe a day when I pushed myself awake from a strange dream which featured Juche (view spoiler)[as a rule I don't generally have North Korean themed dreams (hide spoiler)] and I then spent much of the day waiting for buses which ran to their own timetables, in order to wait in hospitals (view spoiler)[ not on my own account (hide spoiler)] for a Doctor to decide that what was needed, was some more waiting, was not the best day to start a collection of K
I get the feeling that there ought to be recommended limits to the amount of Kafka that one can safely consume within any 24 hour period, one probably doesn't want to reach a point of oneness with him in which his strangeness becomes natural and self-evident, in the absence of safety warnings from National or International councils for the responsible consumption of Literature I feel this little collection can be knocked back with no ill effects, though possibly not if operating heavy machinery or in an advanced state of pregnancy.Although apparently an original collection released in Kafka's own lifetime, it felt a very mixed bag.
IDK...ningún cuento me llego especialmente ni me fascino, simplemente fueron pasando, me gustaron pero hasta ahí.
I read this fucker in German. Real Deutsch! It took almost 3 months.
I didn't read everything that's in this book, but I guess we had to read about 50-60% for German Lit. class so I'm adding this.
The book itself really is that - a good collection of various things Kafka published while he was still alive and can be deemed finished.I'm just not sure how to rate this.
I guess the stories weren't meant to be enjoyed, but I disliked the general vibe from all of them.
Still I've decided on a 3-star rating because the writing actually was really good..
Será muy Kafka pero algunos relatos son meras estampas planas; tres cuentos son extraordinarios: "Un mensaje imperial", "La inquietud del padre de familia" e "Informe para una Academia", en la que un simio relata cómo se 'humanizó' para hallar una salida, no la libertad.
HILF MIR!!!!
A Country Doctor, The Metamorphosis, and many other good stuff. Even though I generally prefer his longer stories, one cannot ignore the genius of his perceptions in most everything else he wrote. But enough research and theories were written about Kafka already for me to add anything original at this juncture. Maybe some other time...
Was tue ich hier in diesem endlosen Winter?
«Hoy veo con claridad que sin la máxima serenidad interior jamás habría podido liberarme». Del relato «Informe para una academia». Relatos de factura desigual, pero con un componente inquietante.
Pequeños relatos, a veces ni de media cuartilla, pero que desgarran la realidad implacable e irreversiblemente.
Paar der Besten sind dadrin.
“A Country Doctor” and Other Writings by Franz KafkaHebrew review follows ביקורת בעברית בהמשךIt's difficult to review such a classic.
Others are much more difficult to follow, some being plain boring.
Overall, I think they are worth reading if only for the influence they all have on culture.הספר כולל את כל הכתבים שקפקא פירסם בימי חייו, מה שאומר שהוא אינו כולל את הרומנים שלו.קשה לכתוב ביקורת על קלאסיקה שכזו.
בסך הכל, אני חושב שהדבר היחיד שאני יכול להגיד הוא שהספר שווה קריאה ולו רק בגלל ההשפעה העצומה שיש לו על התרבות שלנו.
שווה לעבור גם את הקטעים הפחות טובים בשביל לצאת עם המטען הזה הלאה.
Un extraordinario cuento del gran escritor checo que fue Kafka, de momento, lo mejor que he leído de él y lo mejor que he leído en años. Solo ocupa ocho páginas pero su ambigüedad, su hermetismo y sus poderosas imágenes, todo ello acompañado de un ritmo frenético, me han hecho gozar, sobrecogerme y a la vez admirar el enorme talento de este peculiar hombre, único en la historia. Un verdadero artista.
