https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/552887.Double_Cross

An entertaining installment but really wish we had gotten more of backstory on Bree.
I like her character but wish we were able to read about their meeting instead of put right in an established relationship.
Any Alex across book with Kyle Craig back in the picture is entertaining because of Alex and his past friendship so I actually got into that aspect of the crime plot right away.
The DCAK killing plot was intriguing and constantly changing so that was a very fun aspect to the crime plot.
My quick and simple overall: a great shirt read and addition to the series.
Why oh why do I continue to do this to myself?
Super dad, super cop, super doc Alex solves the mystery but only when he isn't chasing his new girlfriend and trying to find time to have sex with her.
OK - I am not a prude (I really enjoy good sex scenes in fiction) but this is getting ridiculous.....When Patterson first conceived the Alex Cross character he is what drew readers in - he was an excellant cop, doc, and a good single dad.
Now I think Patterson just keeps rehashing the same book with different female leads.
Having read many of the previous Alex Cross novels I always loved the stories but sometimes I was a bit bored with Alex's family saga that often took up a lot of the book, but this one didn't focus on his family much at all and concentrated purely on the crimes being committed which were gruesome, gory and right up my street!
All in all this is one of James Patterson's better books as a lot of his work is now co written with other authors and aren't quite up to the usual standards.
A go to series. Always can count on these books to get me out of a reading slump!
That, or JP is getting lazy and sloppy as he keeps cranking out the novels.
Once again, Cross gets sucked in to helping and questions his life's direction.
And I find it disturbing that Cross seems to find more time to sleep with his girlfriend du jour than spend with his family.
Also, his family is constantly being threatened by horrible killers.
I don't like reading books, the whole time waiting to find out whodunit, only to finish the novel knowing absolutely nothing about the killer or where they came from.
There was a time before the writing factory of James Patterson and his co-writers took his place in which the Patterson books expecially with Alex Cross were great fun to read.
The rather attention seeking killer does manage to keep out of the hands of the cops while at the same time perpetrating some horrific murders.
And yet the story feels like an exercise of how can we top earlier successful stories about serial killers and make it more interesting.
WHY ME?!WHY!WHY?Ugh, this book would have been super freaking amazing if Alex didn't always have to chase the "new romance" in every god damn book!
I wanted to throw my book out of a window so many freaking times.
If there's another romance in the next book or the next next book I'm going to skim through it because I came for the murders and I will stay until there's justice.
I don't need all of this romance shit.
He needs to do his job and solves these murders quicker.Other than that, I love how James Patterson writes because his chapters are short, sweet, and get to the god damn point.
Oh the twists and turns in this one...
I'm only slightly positive that at this point in his illustrious career (and don't get me wrong, I do enjoy me some Patterson for a quick, mindless read here & there) he might be taking the time in between counting his millions to just copy & paste some of his old books & send it to the publisher.
The zomambulified cattle will still flock to the stores and greedily buy them off the shelves whether hardcover (which, really is a bitch to bike & skate to work with all the time.
It follows the usual formula- Cross is trying to get out of the murder business only to get sucked in by a particularly twisted serial killer.
Added to the mix is the escape of Cross's nemesis, Kyle Craig, and a new girlfriend for Cross, fellow homicide detective Bree Stone.Patterson seems to be falling victim to his own machine; the repeated churning out of books correlates to a drop in quality for the story.
Kyle Craig gets his due, I suppose, but DCAK is never really given a motive or any sort of backstory, even after the identity is revealed.If you like the Cross series, this one will suit just fine, but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone who isn't already a fan.
Once again an Alex Cross book that is gripping for the wrong reason.
A book of loose ends.
Although he commits a murder there it's never investigated so leaves you wondering about what the point was in Patterson even writing about Kyle going to France as it doesn't add to the story and goes nowhere.
Little snippets thrown in which the author should have explored further and embroidered on but didn't leaving you as the reader a bit unsatisfied.
I picked up this series again, read three Alex Cross books in a row but need to read some real stories before picking up the series again.
I think it was the cast of characters.
It wasn't just Cross.
Sometimes I feel like his family holds him back from truly being as aggressive and hands-on as he needs to be.
I understand that they come first, but I can imagine the Cross books without any emotional attachments.On the flip side, Alex put his family in the backseat on this one and his son rebelled against it.
Alex just got through fighting for the youngest and is now "all about the case."Still, I really got into the pacing and loved the interactions from all of the characters.
I can't take Alex's voice seriously on the audiobook.
This is the first James Patterson book I have read because I saw that he is twice on the Amazon best seller list and I wanted a piece of the action.
I was utterly unconvinced by his characters and the story line, the latter doing a very poor job, or no job at all, of explaining how the killers ALWAYS got their victims right where they wanted them.
Real life serial killers are an extremely unhappy group of people.
Patterson just gets his serial killer, Kyle Craig, coming across a cleaner in his hotel room and deciding on the spot, yeah, ok, I will kill her right here, right now.
I needed a light read for the weekend, and Double Cross was a good selection.
Since this is not my usual genre, I enjoy some of the trapping which might become cliche after reading a couple dozen more thrillers - but the book allowed me to escape for a few hours and the pages kept turning.
While I figured out the ending well in advance - the twists kept me reading until the very last page.I will definitely pick up another Patterson book when I need to push the escape button.
Recommended for thriller lovers.
This is a book in the Alex Cross Series!
I loved this book and I love the way James Patterson writes.
While there’s also a murderer who has escaped from a jail that was supposed to be inescapable and both of the murderers are after Alex Cross.
The main character is a psychologist in DC who is thrown back into the detective game when terrible murders take place, but, getting back into the scene has put his family in danger as well.
The book causes you to actually think about what’s happening in the novel and it takes place in many points of view.
I'm afraid this series isn't going in the right direction after 13 books.Okay, so this won't be long.
If you've ever read one of these Alex Cross books you know there's a formula; no matter what the plausibility.
In this particular book of the series I just felt that I didn't need nor did I care about all the scenes with Alex and his girlfriend.
If you like the series you'll probably read this like I did just for fun, but this series has definitely lost its luster; the mystery/crime writing has become a bit too "paint by numbers."
Alex Cross: Perigo Duplo foi o primeiro livro que li do famoso autor James Patterson.
Em primeiro lugar cometi um erro ao, sem querer, acabar por trazer o segundo livro da série em vez do primeiro (Alex Cross) por sorte a leitura não é muito prejudicada por este lapso.A escrita é fluída e acessível e o ritmo que o autor emprega é constante.
A opção dos capítulos curtos traz o benefício de estimular a leitura e quando damos por nós já lemos várias páginas.Foi uma leitura muito agradável e gostei bastante da trama que gira em redor do vilão e da descrição dos crimes.
Um livro que agradará aos amantes de policiais.
This is a good fast paced crime thriller that has Alex Cross hunting not one but two killers, one of whom he has already caught and put behind bars.
The chase interrupts his attempts to lead a more normal, less killer-filled life and he does uhm and ah about it a little but you know he's going to get right back into it.
I did get a little lost towards the start where the first person narrative switched between Cross and Craig but once I realised that Patterson was using that technique again it was fine.
Nothing ground breaking but sometimes you just need some crime candy.
Spoilers... Only 3 stars because the end wasn't very realistic. After all these years and Kyle Craig's escape out of prison it is hard for me to believe that two experienced detectives would not ensure they had their suspect under control after they finally caught him. They thought he was dying, didn't have their own guns up, and he surprises them with the fact that he (Ex FBI Agent) was wearing a bulletproof vest and just walks away?
Really enjoyed this book and one I wasn't expecting the ending of.Hope there is another book that James does with Kyle Craig and Alex in
Okay. The killer is armed and wearing Kelvar; the police didn’t bring their guns and have no vests. When the plot requires such as this, I get tired. It pushes me away. Tons of fake identities, too. Granted, that’s s staple of mysteries, but it gets like Clark and Lois, and more, the police in Patterson’s world never see it. It’s getting to be bad tv.
Love those short chapters.
very disappointing! overhyped!!
Não vale a pena, sempre que o Kyle aparece é pra roubar o show! Nem o maravilhoso Alex Cross lhe faz sombra, que vilão do caraças! Aquela fuga no fim do livro dá a entender que vamos ter pelo menos mais um livro sobre ele!
This is the last Patterson book I'm going to read.
The most interesting ones are the villains.In addition to the childish text, a most irritating format feature is the two and three page chapters.
The small chapter format destroys the flow of the story.
I'm also guilty of wanting to find out how Alex got out of this situation.
In my defense, I finished the over 400 page book in less than 6 hours.I know Patterson is one of the most popular authors around today.
Personally, I'd choose 6 hours of T.V. mystery programs before reading another Patterson book.
death is more universal than life; everyone dies but not everyone lives -- A.
Sachssome stuff from double cross:1.
The password is "in your honor"2.
The initial is "KC"...
well, all KC fans out there, you all can be happy coz he's on the loose again3.
The DCAK imposters Tyler Bell (sibbling to Michael Bell from "Mary, Mary") is actually Anthony whom double team with Sandy, aka Aaron & Sarah dennison4.
The X marks the spot means Cross's house5.
Alex Cross the dragon slayer...
or dead man walking, ou tell me ;)6.
Can't hardly wait to read another story for another time, right Mr. JP?!
Not as impressive as the first Alex Cross books like KISS THE GIRLS and ALONG CAME A SPIDER, but definitely better than CROSS, the last book.Most of the characters are back to normal, acting more like themselves, and this book has a better mystery. In fact, it's a two-fold arc, with the devious and psychopathic Kyle Craig causing havoc from prison, and a new serial killer keeping Detective Brianna Stone, Cross's new love interest, busy with murders committed in the limelight.It's a quick, okay read, but definitely not my favorite.
Dan Brown, James patterson, Jeffery Archer, Tom Clancy.What do all these authors have in common? Well until a few weeks ago I didn't have a name for it. That is, until a goodread review on a Michael Connelly book said something along the lines of... "This book is very Dan Brown-ish" So from now on when an author writes a book with lot of cliches and problems, that just kinda ends up as being the equivalent of cotten candy for your brain, I will now use the term "Dan Brownish". This book is the e
So from now on when an author writes a book with lot of cliches and problems, that just kinda ends up as being the equivalent of cotten candy for your brain, I will now use the term "Dan Brownish".
This book is the epitome of "Dan Brownish".Now look if you like authors like Dan brown or James patterson; that's fine.
At one point, the main character, an ex cop just walks onto a crime scene.Oh sure someone stops him but they just go "Oh hey, have fun in there!" What?You do know what you're there for right?
homie that was awesome!!!Seriously, that was such a cool twist!ok back to the story, not only do we have this DC audience killer who creates websites of the people that he is going to kill but we have Kyle who is coming after Alex.
This DC killer gets very agitated when there is a copy cat and kills and drops him off a roof talk about taking your name serious..lol.
Bree is actually pretty bad ass!
Also Alex is such a Love Whore!!!
I hope Bree sticks if not, he needs to just be celibate.
