https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19577.Koko
The scariest thing is that they are all alive.Koko is a long, complex novel where the travel is most important, not the resolution; it's most definitely not an easy thriller or a simple mystery.
Peter Straub in one of the interviews said that Koko was his best writing experience, where he entered a flow state in which he was with his characters and discovered that he wrote whole pages without thinking about writing them.
It shows; Koko presents a world so complex and real that the reader feels like he was living in it.
It was the pure principal of the thing that fuelled my surpassing both those afore laid markers, not the prose or the characters or the story.
Having never read another Straub book I was none the less persuaded to give him, independent of King, a try.
And I hate putting down a book before having turned the last page.
It is not like I need the author to hold my hand or explain every little thing, in fact that usually puts me off.
If you’ve thought about reading Koko, then Be Like Mike and Just Do It. Stephen King fans may appreciate this book, and know about the connection with his friend, Peter Straub.
These two guys are like bookends in the horror genre.
It’s not like Straub’s earlier book Ghost Story (saw the movie – have yet to read the book).
Otherwise, how could he manage to keep us interested and guessing throughout one 550 page book, let alone three?
Oh and if you didn’t know (like me), Koko is the first of three books in the Blue Rose trilogy.
So just let me say that I liked it.
Koko, the novel, is a disjointed, psychological, somewhat confusing affair.
He's certainly a disturbed man… and it rubs off.This book is not a quick read, it's everything but, and when I finished the last page I felt a bit drained.
The 'horror' element in this book is almost exclusively psychological, and it wasn’t quite as visceral an experience as I had imagined it would be, considering the subject matter.
In an interview with Peter Straub, posted on Youtube, he states that Koko was his best writing experience.
This is the epitome of mystery/thriller writing, penned by a master of literary fiction at the heigh
Just finished book one of this trilogy.
This book fucks with you.
It leaves you feeling dirty at times.
Was I confused?...several times!
A lot became clear but there were still many paragraphs and sentences that read like the mad dribble you'd hear at your local nut house.
But did I like that confusion...that mad dribble?
This book was totally fucked up but I enjoyed it enough to give it 4 stars and to buy books 2&3 of the trilogy (Mystery and The Throat).
You can definitely see why King and Straub collaborated when you read Straub's writing style in this book.
Finally finished it :) Buddy Read with the awesome The Eclectic Club It was fun ride but it had some bumps along the way :)
the atmosphere of degradation, regret, self-loathing, and impending doom was pervasive and absorbing. the author shows a sure hand with characterization and a steady one with narrative. the identity of the killer was unsurprising but well-conceived. and either as an extended metaphor for What We Did Wrong in Vietnam or as an ominous tract on the depths that some men can sink in their hunger for self-destruction, Koko certainly succeeds.
Koko is absolutely brilliant! This book reads like a recollected nightmare and the twists and turns will leave you dizzy.
Straub deals in and with psychology, tethering it to literary elements; like human psychology, his narratives and characters are puzzles that are not so easy to complete.
It is best for one to take his or her time when reading Straub, and to not get overwhelmed: his output is not immediately personable, or friendly.
Because this novel is in part about PTSD, long stretches feel fantastical; many times I was not sure if what I was reading was actually happening to the character, or not.
Like the best of this author’s work, this long novel repelled and intrigued me; it is enjoyable because of the challenges the narrative poses.
This book is a chaotic story about the post Vietnam syndrome that has plagued so many of those who fought there.
One of their own is killing people in the Orient and leaving a calling card they all recognize : Koko.Their reunion evolves in a trip back to Orient to find their former comrade and bring him home and get him help.
Littel do they know that as they travel East Koko is coming West finally wanting to end his search for clarity and peace.The story is very well written and you really live with the characters, some less sympathetic than others.
Only later did I come to discover how disturbing an omen this was.My only exposure to Peter Straub (excellent Slate interview here) before this book was through his collaborations with Stephen King in the Talisman saga.
It’s been too long since I’ve fallen in love with a book.
It’s a tale about adults coming together to face a demon they thought they left behind years ago.
This killer has been going around offing people connected to their unit and leaving a souvenir in their mouths–a regimental playing card with the word “Koko” written on it.Like the best novels written in the 80′s and 90′s, it’s a big friggin book, clocking in at 560 pages.
Will put my thoughts together at a later date when I have more time. This was another group read that took a long time to get through, but that's not a reflection on the quality of the book - life just got in the way a lot!
Review to come......not even sure where to start with this one, lol!
No one could say that Peter Straub can't write a beautiful sentence or that his description of people and places isn't excellent.
This is 562 pages long.
But, what I have found with horror writers, they seem to have a need to prove that they are better writers, which is ridiculous, and begin to picture themselves as great literary figures.
He has a great deal to teach me, but I believe in the Shakespearean setup of a story, by presenting the crisis and working it through in a modern style of not taking ten pages that can be expressed in two or three.
I hate to be a dick here but the perceived value of having been written by Peter Straub seems to have carried a competent, yet otherwise dated and overweight thriller for close to thirty years now.
Don't get me wrong, there's a lot to like about KOKO.
It has a lot to say about war, PTSD and the meaninglessness of murder, but there is material that sprawls over pages of this book that haven't aged all that well.
The countercultural tour of Southeast Asia among others have been done to death since the book was first published.I kind of liked KOKO and though its mystery aspect was compelling and cleverly delivered.
DNF @ Pg 121: I'm having such a hard time focusing on this book when I'm reading it.
I find Straub's writing,on his own, really dry.
*Sighs* I also really like the anthologies he has edited/complied.
*feels like a loser with an unpopular opinion*I feel really bad, but I will read 20 pages and space out, re-read them, and nothing registers that much.
I did really try, but I just feel like I'm just draaaaaging this one along.
I hope other people really like it though.
This is the second book of his I've DNFed....Maybe his writing, on his own, isn't for me.
The characters are definitely the strongest point of this novel, the bond (and sometimes hatred) between them is felt as it oozes from the page.
The concluding climax of the tale is excruciatingly tense echoing the style of the film adaptation of Thomas Harris' 'The Silence of the Lambs' (which wouldn’t come out for another three years.) The concept is refreshingly original as the plot focus on a serial murder mystery surrounding one particular platoon that serve in the Vietnam War. Mystery is definitely present throughout the tale as Straub leads the reader one way only to redirect a whole other direction; all done fluently without any hiccups.
When Anchor Books re-released Koko, the first book in the “Blue Rose Trilogy,” I jumped at the chance to review it.The Washington Post claimed that the 1988 work was “brilliantly written…an inspired thriller…(Straub’s) finest work.” I was ready, eager, anxious, and waiting when the almost six-hundred-page paperback landed on my doorstep.
The story opens with four Vietnam vets returning to Washington, D.C, for the dedication of Vietnam Memorial.
The killer, Koko, could be either the writer Tim Underhill or M.O. Dengler or a Victor Spitlaney, from their old unit.
Straub changed narration and basically ended the story with an “what happened?
4.5*
This was the first book by Peter Straub that I read, and it absolutely blew me away.
Koko prompted me to buy a Peter Straub book every time I came across one, and unfortunately no novel of his I have read has compared.
I have been less than impressed with each book of Straub's I have come across since Koko (the list of books I have read include Mystery, Floating Dragon, Houses Without Windows, and The Hellfire Club).
However, know this: If Koko is your first Peter Straub book, don't expect to find another one that is better.
I know I tried to read this book... It had something to do with the Vietnam War, but I never found out what "Koko" meant and I couldn't shake the idea that it was about a gorilla...
They also believe this ties in within an incident that happened in Vietnam during the war.I would classify this book as a mystery book within a psychological thriller.
I really liked how the author used this issue and how it affected these different men in different ways.
It does take awhile to get totally engrossed in this novel.If you are looking for a lighthearted book you should not try this book.
If you are looking for a serious book that delves into many issues and a mystery that will totally captivate you, this is that book.
In Koko, Straub surely succeeded in both depicting monsters and keeping tension without any supernatural parts at all. This is on my to-read list in original language, because I did feel the translation was lacking in parts.
Long-winded but worth the read.He could have told the same story, shortened by about 200 pages. I love stories about Vietnam and PTSD so this still resonated.
I phrase it that way because I can acknowledge that the book is well-written, that Peter Straub has an amazing turn of phrase, and that there is a brilliant thread at work here.
But what Straub manages to do with Koko is to explore the feelings of trauma, guilt, and psychological suffering felt by its protagonists, to take you inside their heads, and to allow you to identify with them.
The ending is one where it's not certain whether any of the main characters will come out of this alive, and indeed as the book goes along it builds dread at a slowly methodical pace that one of the men the reader meets at the beginning of the novel is definitely not going to make it.
Right off the hook with this book Peter puts you in the story of Four Vietnam veterans that reunite after what has been 15 years after the war, they all made their little ways in the world after the war, but to some of them the war is still very fresh in their minds, and one horror of it, a chain of murders is committed in south Asia.
The murderer always leaves a trademark card.
When you think you have clocked who the murderer was the plot turns and it's someone totally different.
I'll stick my neck out and characterize this book of Straub's as litfic. It's as good a Vietnam novel as the best of them. It's horrific, but not horror. Read it a few years ago and don't have enough details in my mind to write a full review, but I remember that it's vividly told and characterized, and very well written. The book has something to say and says it well, and I'm surprised it's not brought up in more reviews of contemporary war novels, the way, say, The Things They Carried is (deservedly).
"The past is in the past because that's where it belongs.""...no story existed without its own past, and the past of a story was what enabled us to understand it."I enjoyed Straub's novel. The prose is fluid and, at times, poetic. The story just didn't resonate with me. Maybe my expectations were off...I was hoping for a little horror and it didn't even need to be supernatural. The book is deep, it simply didn't connect with me.
This was little hard to decipher but once one does, it is an in-depth psychological trip into guilt, madness and grief as shared by four veterans. These men witnessed mayhem and now its seed has rooted and burst forth. This novel is deep and foreboding but worth the read. But, I have never tried to read the next book in the series because I was satisfied with this novel entry.
