https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403722.Missing_May
At age six, she meets her Aunt May and Uncle Ob. The kindly old couple notices that, although Summer is not mistreated, she is virtually ignored by her caretakers and decide to take Summer home to their rickety trailer home in the hills of the Appalachian mountains.
Uncle Ob decides to try contacting May's spirit, after he experiences the sensation that she has tried to communicate with him.
او از اینکه با اُب و سامر در باغچه «می» به انتظار بنشیند به شدت خوشحال بود...؛ ا.
It's also a story about adoption, and loving relationships between young people and old folks.Summer's parents died when she was a baby, leaving her orphaned.
After being passed from one reluctant relative to another, she finally finds a home at age six, moving in with her kindly but quite elderly relatives, Aunt May and Uncle Ob. Summer finds a serene happiness in their kitschy old trailer, surrounded by pinwheel wind spinners -- the colorful whirligigs they create and sell.Happy, that is, until Aunt May suddenly dies, six years later.
And then Ob gets a visit from May’s spirit, and Summer knows what she must do to keep Ob here with the living, where she needs him.‘Missing May’ was the 1992 highly-acclaimed middle-grade novel from Cynthia Rylant.
all, except Ob and May. Summer’s aunt and uncle were the best kind of people – they didn’t have much, but what they did have they gave to Summer – all their love, care and attention was heaped on her, until it almost felt like all the pain she had previously gone through was worth it, to end up in that trailer on the hill with May’s big hugs and Ob’s whirligigs.
Summer doesn’t have many people she can rely on to help her with Ob. She starts the story by trying to avoid her weird neighbor, Cletus, but by the end of the book, she learns that Cletus is exactly the friend she needs.“We wanted a family so bad, all of us.
That works well for the plot, but I don’t know how realistic it is.If the book was longer, the reader could have learned more about Summer and Cletus.
It might be a turn-off for some young readers.Still, this is one of the better Newbery books I’ve read.
All the characters are developed wonderfully and they all end up feeling like old friends.It is a poignant novel about death and the depression that follows the loss of a loved one.Summer loses her mother and goes to live with various kin, but never feels unconditionally loved by any of them, she is even afraid to ask for more milk.
Summer's joy is turned to sorrow when May passes on and Ob has a hard time dealing with the depression of losing his wife.Together along with a neighbor boy named Cletus, Summer and Ob are able to work through their grief and find hope during a trip to the Capitol.One bad thing about finishing this book so quickly is that you feel the loss of new found friends.
Rylant's writing, however, makes it easy for the reader to identify how Summer and those around her are processing their emotions.
Everyone deals with grief and pain differently.
RThe writing explores the complexity of grief with the different styles of grieving so clearly.
There is a classmate of Summer's, Cletus, who somehow gets mixed up with Ob, and the three of them seek May's spirit while seeking their own release from the pain they are experiencing.
There's nothing wrong with this, as we're exploring the world from Summer's grieving perspective.
I highly recommend it to middle-grade readers coping with loss and grief.
That's how I felt sometimes."Rescued by elderly Aunt May and Uncle Ob, Summer finally finds a secure, stable home as she lives with these two wonderful people who, while lacking in financial resources, have an abundance of love.When Aunt May dies, in deep grief, Summer's fears of abandonment and insecurity arise as she watches Uncle Ob slip into depression.Enter anything but ordinary, highly eccentric, classmate Cletus Underwood who brings a unique joy and unconventionality to the two deeply hurting souls.I liked everything about this book.
Summer and Uncle Obe recently lost their beloved May. Summer is coping, not only with her own grief, but also with the fact that Uncle Obe is dying inside. The unique character, Cletus Underwood, enters their lives and the three go on a quest for a spiritual connection to May.Of Missing May, Cynthia Rylant says, "I'm not sure where this story came from. But I was raised in rural West Virginia and I knew a lot of characters like Ob and Cletus and May. I just felt I was writing about my own people."Newbery Winner----1993
What a sad little book. I experienced two big losses in my life within the last year and a half, and this book does resonate with my grieving process. I fell into a sort of depressed hibernation, and then one day I started to come out of it, too, for no obvious reason. I can't say whether that is standard or even common when it comes to death and loss, but Missing May feels authentic to me.
I did not like this book. I read it as a fifth grader, and I have had no desire to read it since. I didn't like the characters and I didn't feel like they were very real. Sometimes I wonder what the Newbery committee is thinking. I've always thought that the books they choose to honor should be ones that kids can enjoy.
اینقدر دوستش داشتم....اینقدر دوستش داشتم....«مِی اگر الان اینجا بود به من و کلتوس میگفت کار درست هم این است. که آدم قدر هرکس و هرچیزی را که دارد بداند و محکم نگهش دارد. میگفت که ما آدمها باید دو دستی به یکدیگر بچسبیم چون مقدر این است که با همدیگر باشیم.مقدر این است که به هم نیاز داشته باشیم.»ص31ممنون از خانوم توکلی و بشری :)
اینقدر دوستش داشتم....اینقدر دوستش داشتم....«مِی اگر الان اینجا بود به من و کلتوس می‌گفت کار درست هم این است. که آدم قدر هرکس و هرچیزی را که دارد بداند و محکم نگهش دارد. می‌گفت که ما آدم‌ها باید دو دستی به یکدیگر بچسبیم چون مقدر این است که با همدیگر باشیم.مقدر این است که به هم نیاز داشته باشیم.»ص31ممنون از خانوم توکلی و بشری :)
This book was sort of an Audrey Rose for younger readers; it was an interesting idea with loveable characters but the choppy sentences got on my nerves.
Poignant and sometimes funny story about a girl who is finding her way in the world after her beloved Aunt May dies, and her relationship with her uncle and her friend. Takes place in the mountains of West Virginia. Loved it. Highly recommended.
This is a wonderful book about a young girl and a loss in her family, and how they deal with it.It is written for 8-12 year old children, but I laughed and I cried, and I read it in one sitting! Absolutely loved it and the way it was written. Recommended to Everyone!!
Short children's novel about coping with loss and moving on. Shallow at times and very focused on finding spiritual relief for physical pain. Not my favorite Newbery at all.
Wonderful, heart warming book. I am re-naming it to "missing Mary" cuz all I could do was think about my mom as I read the book. Now to pull myself back together!
Summer isn't sure that that is even possible, but she hopes it is for Ob's sake.
Specifically, I did not like the ongoing quest to make contact with the dead--either through Cletus (that attempt failed) or through a professional medium (that one failed as well).
Specifically Summer wants Ob to come to a place of peace so that he will start living again.
who will love her?As a Christian, I saw the lost-ness, the despair of Summer and Ob. Ob is in need of answers, in need of peace, in need of comfort.
Rylant's story of love, loss, and the power that one non-judging soul has is heartwarming and puts a smile on your face.
Summer's mother passed away when she was young, and she was passed from family member to family member until May and Ob took her from Ohio to West Virginia.
When Summer was 12, May died and left Summer and Ob in a deep state of depression.
It wasn't until Cletus started coming around that Ob began to come out of it.
There are many great lines in this book, but my favorite comes in the last few pages of the book, when a recovered Ob tells Summer, "People don't ever leave us for good."
Well, this is a sad book.
It's just all sad right from beginning to end.
I don't know how many kids would actually enjoy reading this, I think I might have as a kid, but, not necessarily.
I really love the writing style and I got attached to the characters right away.
It's one of those books good for any kind of crying you'd like to do..
lol I'm glad it won the Newbery, otherwise I might not have come across it.
The description for the book though contains enough information in that regard.
I remember being moved by this small and quiet novel as a child, and it is still just as moving as an adult. This is a slight book--hardly more than a short story--but it is anything but insubstantial. Rylant masterfully describes the complexity of grief and the reality of different styles of grieving with characters so dear they are not easily forgotten. A lovely and tender story.
This 1993 Newbery Medal winner tells a tender, beautiful story about grief and healing. I listened to the audio version narrated Frances McDormand with some lovely musical accompaniment.Dewey’s Read-a-Thon October 2018:Book One Completed
Wow. I had never even heard of this book, and read it for a requirement in an upcoming class. It really surprised me. Such a great book about grief and emotion. Very glad I stumbled upon it.
Ever since my friend introduced me to this book a few months back and I read it, it always stood with me as a very moving, beautiful story.
Everything about the novel from the characters to the plot to the writing itself was simply amazing and I cannot say enough of how great this book is.
Much love to her!This book was just great for me.
It was right up there with all the good books I have been reading.
This book is great for kids to read in order to get a better understanding of life.
"Summer," He said to me once, "Drop some of them bricks you keep hauling around with you. Life just ain't that heavy."
As part of my quest to read all the Newberry Award Winners, I bought and started Missing May. Cynthia Rylant also wrote a short story called "Checkouts" that I thought was genius so I was eager to start this book.
Luckily a strange and likable boy named Cletus arrives in their lives to begin the healing.Maybe I'm a softy, but this book had some of the most touching and beautiful thoughts about love and family.
"Missing May" by Cynthia Rylant is a quick read that I would recommend for fifth or sixth grade.
I would highly recommend it to a student who is dealing with death in their family or one who has been a part of foster care that has caused them to not feel secure.
There are some controversial topics dealing with interaction between the living and the dead.
One lesson that can be learned from this book that is extremely important to learn is that some people are better than you originally think they are.
Again, "Missing May" would be great for a read-aloud or individual enjoyment primarily in the fifth and sixth grades.
Books about recovering from grief are a mixed lot.
Some try too hard to instruct, to show the 'stages of grief,' to give advice.
Rylant does not fall into the teaching trap.
But it's winter that nearly does Ob and Summer in...the grief becomes suffocating.
That is so real to us who've been crippled by loss of loved ones.Summer and Ob, and Cletus, their neighbor, go off in search of a spiritual medium who may have answers...and maybe they do get answers, just not the ones they expected.The storytelling is top-notch here, and Rylant's language is poetic.
I loved this book the first time I read it in elementary school 20 years ago, and it has stuck with me into adulthood.
Reading this was my first introduction to grief, and I still find Rylant's descriptions of love and loss to be profound.
One of Summer's first descriptions of May and Ob, for example: "I never saw two people love each other so much.
Sometimes the tears would just come over me, looking at the two of them, even six years back when I first got here and was too young to be thinking about love.
فضای خاصی داشت.
یعنی یه طور خاصی در طول همه ی داستان، حتی اون جاهایی که حرف می زدن آدماش با هم، بازم یه نوع"سکوت" رو میشد حس کرد، یه سکوت ممتد و بی وقفه که تا آخرش ادامه داشت؛ یه سکوت که ناشی از از دست دادن یه نفر بود، کسی که عزیز بوده خیلی.شخصیت هابه طور عجیبی گنگ بودن، یعنی البته اُب نه ها، ولی خود راوی چرا، خیلی گنگ و دور بود به نظرم.
و کلیتوس هم، که هم خوب و دوست داشتنی بود به نظر راوی و هم بد و حرص درآر.و کل کتاب در همین خلاصه میشد که بلخره فهمیدن که باید شرایط رو پذیرفت و کنار اومد و امیدوار بود به زندگی.
و واقعا آیا برای یک زندگی خوب بعد از یک حادثه ی ناگوار، دونستن تنها همین مسئله کافی نیست؟
Awards Won: Newbery Medal (1993)This is a short book about a learning to cope with the loss of a loved on.
The main character Summer lives in a run-down trailer with her Aunt May and Uncle Ob. Summer is extremely happy with her current home-life, after previously having to cope with the death of her own mother.
When May dies, Summer fears that she will lose Ob to the grief that he can't seem to overcome.
But, with the help of an unlikely friend, Summer and Ob begin to learn how to heal.
This book is short, but extremely powerful.
