https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/382680.One_False_Move
But, towards the end of the book I started to appreciate the more vulnerable and flawed Bolitar.I am thinking that some of the changes I saw were because this is book five in the series and maybe Coben felt it was time to re-imagine some of the characters and storylines.
I can see it getting stale if it is the same book after book.
Also back and as awesome is ever is Myron’s good friend Win. We could all use a friend like Win.I still highly recommend Coben and the Bolitar series.
I am steadily working my way through this series and here I am at number 5. Myron remains one of my favourite book characters but Win comes a close second! I loved the banter between them in this book and the way they operate as a team. The ending was very sad and made me want to go straight to number 6 just to find out how our hero copes:)
Quick thoughts before I write a review after holidays. I love how Myron and Esperanza are best of friends. I love Myron’s honesty. I love Myron’s style of integrity. I love that Win always has his back; and their banter can’t be beaten. I love that Myron is considering all his options regarding Jessica. I love that I am hooked for more.
Before Myron Bolitar was introduced to Brenda Slaughter he said he wasn’t a bodyguard, so wouldn’t take on the job of keeping her safe.
As Myron learned about Brenda’s tragic past, he determined there was more to her problems that it seemed – and they began twenty years previously when Brenda’s mother disappeared when she was only five years of age…Then when Brenda’s father Horace disappeared, she was devastated – she needed help from Myron to find him.
I have no hesitation in recommending One False Move and all of Coben’s work highly.
One False Move is in my opinion, the best Myron Bolitar entry yet!! Myron and Win just get better and funnier! Parts had me laughing out loud with their funny remarks, and other parts just had me deep in surprise and excitement! I think the Myron Bolitar series just might be my new favorite murder/mystery series. And of course it makes all the difference that it's written by one of my all time favorite mystery writers, Mr. Harlan Coben!
Myron’s hilarious, self-deprecating remarks and observations kept me entertained through, what was a little bit of a slow start, but the tone changes little by little until the last quarter of the book, when things become more serious than I’ve seen them thus far.Myron may have lost a little innocence here, and it will be interesting to see if he rebounds from this or is his character will have a new edge from here on out.
And to be honest the characters had some great dialogue and some of it was quite funny and intelligent, and other stuff left me somewhat baffled which is the case if you jump into a series somewhere in the middle of that series.The mystery was somewhat boring and seemed to be solved mostly due to some strong arm tactics which were mostly expected and once cringe worthy, but not in a positive way.
Another FANTASTIC read by Harlan Coben in the Myron Bolitar series.... If you never read this series- pick up book 1 and keep on reading !
I've yet to finish a book by this author that I didn't enjoy.
Just as the other books in ther series that I've read so far, the author throws these curve balls throughout the book and the person you least expect is the real killer.
Whichever route the author takes is proportioned to the story at hand.
What I mean is that it provides background and other information to piece the story together.
It's like the CSI book version with this author.
Book club groups, 18 & above would enjoy this series.
3.5 stars- Harlan Coben with Myron has myriads of mirth, quips of humor and far more than usual excelling banter for the genre.
Because I read it out of order and this is in an early Myron state of life, I find both he and Win not as layered.
But, saying that- this plot was also intensely sad.
Especially in the ending, which was totally a 180 from what these Coben and even the entire genre usually incur.
Not a clue until just pages from the end.But I'm glad I went back to read some of the Myron's I missed long ago.
8/10A solid entry into the Harlan Coben/Myron Bolitar series, without ever truly excelling.
That was a couple of years ago and I felt it was time to read another of his entertaining Myron Bolitar series as this was a step back into comfortable shoes as I knew the characters already and liked the style.
A similar style to that I recently enjoyed with Jim Butcher and “Storm Front” but more Sports Agent than Wizard for Hire.A good read and entertaining for the short time it took to read, it won’t leave you blown away but at the same time it won’t disappoint.
One False Move is the 5th book in the Myron Bolitar series by Harlan Coben.
Sports agent Myron Bolitar is hired to protect Brenda Slaughter, a beautiful basketball star.
If you're a Bolitar fan, you know that he is more than just a sports agent.
And you know he's a sympathetic person who loves to help and save his clients.
He has a personal interest with Brenda.
But it's a series, so I know he will stay alive.
It stands out as one of the best books in the Myron Bolitar series.Literary Marie of Precision Reviews
If you're considering One False Move as your first Harlan Coben novel then don't bother.
I would suggest Tell No One as a good choice.
If you're considering One False Move as your first Harlan Coben novel featuring Myron Bolitar then don't bother as it's the fifth in the series.The rest of you must already have read several books in the Myron Bolitar series.
It's Harlan Coben.
As always, Mr Coben uses Myron as a soapbox once or twice but I guess he can do as he likes.
All good stuff.
The friendship between Myron and Win is one the best found in any modern mystery series.
They are smart, clever, witty, sarcastic, funny.
They are very real with one another, and loyal to one another.
The banter is hilarious.
And I like them together better in each consecutive book.
Plus, in the last couple books Coben has deepened the connection between Myron and Espiranza, giving Myron another facet.This entry in the series showed us more of Myron's flaws and I like that too.
It made him more believable and real.
I am already looking forward to #6.
Off to the library!
Look, even a disappointing Harlan Coben novel is still a damn good read.
Bolitar finally discovers who the REAL villain is in the story, then lets her go, so that another person can murder her in the most painful, violent way possible...as least we are told.
Instead, we just get Bolitar confronting evil Aunt Mabel, letting her know he knows she murdered the entire Slaughter family (Horrace, Anita, and Brenda) for money, and then walking away.
Harlan Coben doesn't even give the reader clues that leads Bolitar to conclude that Aunt Mabel was the murderer all alone.
With One False Move, Harlan Coben crafts yet another fine Myron Bolitar with a wonderful mystery full of nifty twists and turns.
Okay, along the way, we already know how one small part of the mystery is going to play out-- still-- Coben manages to keep it fresh and moving forward with his cast of characters.Myron's wit is probably the best part of these novels.
he spends his time trying to be quick talking and funny...This one is another Coben novel that the reader will not be disappointed in.
Okay, this one misses some of the cool television or comic book trivia that Coben likes to toss about in dialogue between Myron and Win..
A bit of my memorabilia from this session. I liked one of the character's argumentation toward honest animal killing/eating vs. mind-absent non killing (and maybe killing of insects/small animals when plowing... ). Also agreed with the notion that all addicts simply have addictive personalities and the best way to "cure" them is to substitute the harmful habit with the good/less harmful one.
This is Coben at his best! He just keeps getting better and better. His clever lines and snide remarks kept me laughing through most of the book, but when it was time to get serious, he practically had me in tears. What a talented author! I love Myron and his buddies!
This is the one, the first step that could lead to glory. A Mickey Spillane anger drives the punches through.
Coben has created an interesting set of characters.
And we get some character growth and development with Myron, Win, and Esperanza.
The ending was even a bit of surprise.The only thing that bothered me was how dated it felt.
Every time one of the character said "cellular phone" I cringed a little.
Myron even uses microfiche machine to search newspapers.
Obviously this is not Coben's fault but it's somewhat weird that a book not even 20 years old could feel so out of date technology-wise.
This doesn't bother me as much with novels from the 70s or novels that are intentional set in another time.
Ny författare för mig, kommer läsa fler av hans böcker.
Kitap fena değildi.Polisiye türü sevdiğim için okunacak türden ama tabi ilk olarak diğer yazarlara öncelik verip onların kitaplarını bitirip daha sonra Harlen Coben'in kitaplarını okurum diye düşünüyorum.
I love Dutch (don’t think many Dutch people will agree with me on that one), so why not read a book in Dutch every now and again (and get angry at the translators for using really weird words)?First things first, though.
What I don’t understand is that people say you can read the Myron Bolitar series as standalone thrillers.
Where Win is at times describes as a pscyhopath with a craving for violence, Myron doesn’t like to use his gun or his hands when it’s not necessary.
I found that it was hard to get into the 5th novel of the Myron Bolitar series.
There wasn't as much sports talk and not even many sporting events that Myron attends.
In One False Move, Myron basically drops everything, including his work, when he is asked to be a bodyguard to rising women's basketball star, Brenda Slaughter.
There is a tangle of lies and secrets that are linked to a murder 20 years ago that Myron needs to solve in order to find Brenda's father and keep Brenda safe.The ending was really entertaining and I couldn't put it down, but I didn't love all the parts leading up to it.
This was one of my favorite from Coben
One False Move is the fifth novel in Mr. Coben's series of the cocky crime solver and sports agent, Myron Bolitar.
One False Move features the usual cast of Myron Bolitar, the explosive Windsor Lockwood Home III and the trite Esperanza.In this instalment, the experience is more tragic than explosive.
As usual, Mr. Coben knows how to make you turn pages.In this book both his dearest friends, Windsor Lockwood Thorne III and Esperenza plays a supportive role from the emotional perspective.
For those who have been following the Myron Bolitar series from the beginning will know what I mean after they have read the book.
La quinta novela de Myron Bolitar presenta, además, los primeros cambios al statu quo del personaje -digamos, sin adelantar demasiado, que varias cosas de las que "siempre pasan" acá o no pasan o salen mal- y Coben logra, además, altos momentos de emotividad a través de las relaciones de su protagonista con su entorno.
Como en las mejores novelas negras, lo que parece una cosa es otra, y Myron (junto a Win y Esperanza, sus amigos de siempre) va a realizar un áspero buceo en el pasado de la familia Slaughter y, sobre todo, su vinculación con los Bradford, la más poderosa familia de New Jersey.
Harlan Cohen & Myron Bolitar deserve 5 stars!!Love, love the series with Big Cindy & Esperenza!! Harlan makes you really see them with his descriptive verse. And his wonderful mystery of who done it, I can never guess until the end!! Awesome Myron Bolitar series!!!
always am pleased with Harlan Coben's books, good read.
I've enjoyed many of Coben's mysteries, but this one is a bit over the top, more complicated than a never-ending, daytime TV soap. The characters have the depth of a comic book. Although Coben can write well and is often humorous, I think this will be the last of the Myron Bolitar series I will read.
