https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/207864.The_Question_Concerning_Technology_and_Other_Essays
Holy cow this one looks good. Also some lectures sound like awesome sci-fi/horror flicks: "The Thing," "The Danger," and "The Turning."
As I write this, there is a superabundance of books which advise us on how to stay human in the age of algorithms, machines, and digital technology.
Many of the writers who are exhorting us to treasure our humanity don't have the experience, or the width, quite frankly, of intellect to navigate a humanist path for us.Trying to bend digital technology, machines, and algorithms to the human will in order to render them less harmful to humankind is itself an expression of submission to an overweening technological order.
why, after all this time, after struggling to follow... do i give this four? mainly because i like to think, and i am fairly certain my difficulties stem from my ignorance of texts, ideas, arguments offered. yes i did really like this. it is worth reading slowly, only bit by bit, and maybe a tutor would help...
Briljante uitwerking van het gevaar van de techNiek: niet beleren of technofobisch, maar haast metafysisch. Mooie inleiding ook tot Heideggers denken (hij legt helder uit wat er met verhullen en onthullen bedoeld wordt). Een aanrader!
As such, it's difficult to find the patience for Heidegger's idiosyncratic and nearly impenetrable language: I might have better luck with Beowulf in the orignial.That said, this short anthology is very well translated - the translator's thorough notes are an immense help.
It's a strong assembly of a particular stage in Heidegger's thought, anchored by "The Question Concerning Technology" and "Science and Reflection." The former is a bit unconvincing: Heidegger puts forth the claim that industrial technology is qualitatively different in its imposition on the natural world than pre-industrial tech, but the argument has more than a bit of circularity to it.
Going in brimming with excitement and ready to have mind blown, I was only able to stomach his Technology chapter. It was as though his big head clouded the clarity of his actual point. He seemed to be explaining the same ideas in circles - naysaying and leaving his own contradictions of logic unaddressed. It was quite troubling in the way that it all came across more pompous than purposeful. That alone eats at me like a rock in my shoe. I didn't feel blown away or intrigued at all. Just don't like it.
Although the critique of technology is important in understanding the value of Heidegger in the context of globalism, I think that some of the ways in which he "frames" it (particularly the Gestell, sadly translated as "enframing") is among the most problematic, and to me, least appealing elements of his philosophy. Nonetheless, some important essays (Question Concerning Technology, Age of the World Picture, Ge-stell), and some excellent essays (Word of Nietzsche: God is Dead) too.
Masterful as always, Heidegger explores the darkness of technology. Is technology really so bad? No. But neither is it our salvation. In The Question Concerning Technology, we begin to look at how modern technology is different than the technology of the past. This is a great read and not a bad way to begin looking into Heideggerian thought.
A very difficult, but rewarding, examination of the "essence of technology," in which lies the "supreme danger" and the "saving power." There is a questioning of the modernization of the society and Heidegger urges us to remember that art needs to play a role in society to prevent us from simply becoming a cog in a giant productivity machine, a "standing reserve," as he puts it.
Some of the best work by Heidegger in articulating the "two kinds of thinking," understanding Neitzsche's "death of God," and the danger we face today in losing the meaning of Being.
Call this power the power of concatenation.The ur-loops gain their particular circuitous-object essence by providing a course around the molecule in either, indeed in both, of the two available directions without any particular and specific discoverable-in-principle terminus-locus which may objectively privilege-as-endpoint itself above any other, before returning along its full periphery to the initial atom-itself, not to admit in this context a different atom merely of the same category-as-atom, if any other such is present, compared in mutual isolation.
We have accumulated and assembled molecules by powers of emergence, concatenation, loopiness and word-power into a new-name class of material.
(I didn't read 'The Turning' and 'Science and Reflection')As usual with Heidegger, I have mixed feelings: I'm not a big fan of his writing/thinking style but he touches on some important topics.3.5/5
I'm probably a cretin, but I did give it one more star than Being and Nothingness, so there's that.
El libro empieza con lo de definir la esencia de la técnica y demás, esta parte es super interesante y llega a unas conclusiones que neta no tienen madre, por encima de cualquiera de Kant para atrás, un pensamiento más al estilo Nietzsche o Kierkegaard.
Entonces la técnica ha negado al hombre, hasta cierto punto, a ver la verdad de las cosas: al mismo tiempo que lo obliga a cuestionar la realidad, lo limita a su mirada, incluso cuando hace una introspección.Otro aspecto que me llamó la atención es su obsesión por hacerte entender que lo real no es meramente lo real sino que él tiene que definir todo por su realidad: su esencia.
Heidegger sometimes vacillates in his advocacy between approaching the world as the Greeks once did, which he thinks was a better way, and, alternatively, in assuming that there is nothing that can be done, and instead we just need to sit on our hands and hope that this technological age will lead into something else.I don't necessarily subscribe to Heidegger's perspective on the three epochs, nor do I prescribe to the idea that science is inherently corrupting, just to name a couple of issues.
Heidegger makes the claim that technology is something one can't abstract themselves out of, that techne forms much of the basis for how we exist in the world and that it's more a question of determining how this exists, what he calls its capacity for revealing and transforming the state of various things into others, the power to constitute and transform the world.
There's a lot that I still had a hard time making use of or coming close to comprehending, and so I'll probably have to come back to the texts more.
I did not find Heidegger to be difficult at all.
Repetitive, yes.
Circumlocutory, yes.
Vapid, yes.
Challenging the titular essay of this collection, I would like to say that technology is not revelatory in the way Heidegger claims.
It is true that technology deals with the real and has concerned itself with functioning in relation to the real —although, only by dismantling it, subverting it, perverting the real, reassigning it to an exploitable position in contemporary illusion— but it never actually reveals reality.
If I feel the need to revisit this particular book after that, I will revise this review, as of now, Heidegger is -for me- satirical and farcical.
Heidegger displays all that is great and limiting in his philosophy of being in these essays.
On the one hand, these are wonderful philosophy vignettes offering great incite into the relationship between technology and thinking.
The works bring one to see the limits of technological thought and call upon us to consider other forms of thinking, particularly the poetic, but also a kind of holistic, pretechnological thinking in which what is is not divided and conquered.
On the other hand, the limits of Heidegger's thought are also exposed.

Reading Martin Heidegger is always an adventure. The essays in this volume intrigue, challenge, and baffle. Superficial scanning must be abandoned, this is serious thought. Heidegger's roots lie deep in the Western philosophical tradition, yet his thought is unique in its language, and its expression. Heidegger has been benefited from an old style European education. he has been taught by the Greeks, German idealism, phenomenology, and the scholastic theological tradition. He has fused these elements into a very unique philosophical expression.
This essay of Heidegger's was mandatory reading for a number of classes i took in Critical theory and philosophy; etc. I need to re-read it again; but generally speaking, it offers great insight into and/or predicts/deals with a lot of the side effects re: current technological trends and their inevitable impact on our (shared, and/or evolving) collective consciousness (much like Orwell predictions are yet being realized as he laid out in his 1984; and/or Weber, Marx & Engles predicted alienation as a basic by-product of industrialization; etc.).
If you're into technology AND philosophy, then you should definitely read this book. This is probably one of the most referenced texts in technology studies and for good reason (I personally don't agree with his premises, but found the examination useful nonetheless). Heidegger explores humanity's relationship to technology here through an analysis of just what the essence of "technology" is. This is heavy stuff for your average reader, but if theory is your thing, then put this on your list.
This was read for Thomas Sheehan's "Continental German Thought: Heidegger" course during the second semester of 1981/82 at Loyola University Chicago. The concentration of the class was on his Being and Time and my comments about Heidegger are to be found there or in the review of his Basic Writings.
Introduces the concept of Enframing and how man has reduced the question of Being to his own self-referential bubble bent by technology.http://a.aaaarg.org/text/2160/questio...https://www.adbusters.org/blogs/black...
For all the rave that modern philosophers give about Heidegger, I found his arguments to not be all they're cracked up to be. Still, it was work reading if you don't mind the overly endulgent writing style [could be due to translation:].
akhirnya ketemu juga, ini artikel anda yang paling jelas dan kayake masih relevan sampai sekarang..keren, terutama ketika anda bilang kalau bukan manusia yang menciptakan 'Ada yang teknologis' tapi Ada' yang mengungkapkan dirinya secara teknologis...mistik
Heidegger does a great job of quickly and efficiently explaining technology and tools, then building onto it to consider some major issues on the "evils" of technology.This is a "quick" read, unlike his Being and Time (which is a great book as well).
I don't normally count books as read unless I've finished them cover-to-cover, but given that I've just spent about 15 hours plowing through the 30 pages that make up the title essay, I'm going to break the rules this time. Review pending until after my brain starts working again.
One of Heidegger's most popular collections of essays. I am re-reading all of them again, as I have been away from Heidegger for a while now. I have found them quite moving so far. I am soon headed back to his essays on Holderlin.
The titular essay blew me away when I was taught it back in the 1990s. These days, I'm surprised at how often it comes up in humanities courses in TA in. Arguing that technology is ontological obviously employs a typically Hiedggerian move, and one that redefined it in a crucial way.
