https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462448.Witch_World
Women wielding magic powers, men proficient with swords (Aes Sedai and Warders are a good analogy, and yes I know - The Wheel of Time was published after Witch World), conquerors, desperate defenders, a world on a brink of total annihilation - everything and more is here.
As I already mentioned the story was good at the time of publishing, but later on it was told by other writers and sometimes better.
I remember reading this book a long time ago - right after the dinosaurs died off.
The only part I could recall before this reread was Simon's original way of escaping in the beginning - not a good sign if you do not remember anything about a book.
This seemingly wondrous book was very kindly and most generously road-tested for me by some of my favorite people Enslaved Puny Barnacles (EPB™). Given the general debacle consensus, I think it might possibly be fairly wise of me to DNF this fascinating tale pre-emptively and stuff. A total wimp sagaciously discerning badass is me.
The reason I (and maybe many other people but let me not make any bold claims) return to childhood and adolescence favourite reads is to access that careless (careless?) fourteen-year-old who would lose herself in the book like the real world didn’t exist and the worlds her imagination created were so powerful and absorbing she could almost touch them.
There is a lot of female power/magic, which unfortunately goes when they lose virginity (barf, how I hate anything that makes female virginity into a thing), but at least that means the main character couldn’t go round screwing every woman he meets which is what happens in other fantasy books.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.Simon Tregarth knows he’s about to die — he’s being hunted down by a professional assassin and he has a “feeling” that it’s going to happen tonight.
But perhaps if you go straight on to the next novel (Web of the Witch World, also being produced on audio) you won’t feel this way since it’s a continuation of the story.Nick Podehl was the reader for this book and he did an adequate job, though his voice could sometimes be described as plodding and soporific.
Reread: Sept 2012 There's nothing better than a dose of Norton when in need of a comfort read.When I was a lad growing up in St. Charles, MO, the library we frequented (a converted shop near the freeway exit, long since sacrificed to the country's love affair with shopping malls [sigh]) had two floors. The top floor catered to "adult" literature and I didn't often go there. The basement contained the YA and SF stuff, and it was there that I received my first exposure to the genre that I love to
There's nothing better than a dose of Norton when in need of a comfort read.When I was a lad growing up in St. Charles, MO, the library we frequented (a converted shop near the freeway exit, long since sacrificed to the country's love affair with shopping malls [sigh]) had two floors.
For decent stories with interesting and admirable characters, you can do far worse.___________________________________________________________Andre Norton is probably one of the best authors to introduce young readers to both SF and fantasy.
You can't go far wrong with either the Solar Queen or the Witch World.* For my birthday, I picked up the first seven "Witch World" novels from my local used-book store, which prompted this particular round of rereading.
I think perhaps the difference is that LeGuin is considered a "literary writer"; not that this is something she asked for or sought out.Anne McCaffrey, C.J. Cherryh, and Andre Norton (who took said pen name because when she was writing sword and sorcery, publishers believed it was necessary to market to adolescent boys because girls didn't read that sort of thing) are legends in the field, if you ask other science fiction and fantasy writers.
From 1963. Starts in one world, then (right away) dimension shifts to a different one. A world of Fantasy, as in the genre. With kingdoms and politics and a semi medieval culture.
I don't know why the sight insists on a "1" after the title of this book as it was originally just "Witch World"....
It seems that for a while Andre Norton sort carried the banner for everyone who enjoyed popular (and it also might be called "teen") fantasy.
She wrote many solo novels and then turned her hand to collaborations.This is a "fun" read what I call brain candy and it's a start to one of fantasy's longest running series.
Read it for fun.Another person from "our reality" finds himself in an alternate world or universe, the Witch World.
OK - I'm a sucker for Andre Norton books and the Witch World series in particular.
I discovered the author and Witch World about the same time as a teenager.
Yet Witch World relies on the premise that there are "Gates" between worlds and the first major foe encountered are the Kolder, a race of technological beings bent on conquest.
is mysterious benefactor possesses the Siege Perilous, a Cornish artefact of power, mysteriously located in the USA.
To escape Tregarth steps through the "Gate" and finds himself on the Witch World.
The rest of the book, and the main series, are like that.
This is part of my reading challenge for 2017, to expand my woeful knowledge of women in speculative fiction by reading at least 24 books by women that were and are instrumental in our genre.This starts as a master of intrigue.
The fact women are those who have magic is always a favourite of mine - turning often weaker characters who just gather herbs or sit and worry a force to be reckoned with.
Overall though, the intrigue from the start kind of set me off to expect an entirely different book, and this was a mainly plot driven piece rather than by character or worldbuilding as is my preference.
I loved the first part of the book where Simon Tregarth escaped Earth and came to a new world.
The writing there lead the way to future fantasy and scifi books.
This is the book for my Science Fiction Book Club this month.
We are reading some of the Grand Masters of Science Fiction and Andre Norton was one of the early authors chosen.
I read the book years ago and it was interesting remembering how I reacted to the story then and how I reacted to it now.
Norton was a trail blazer and Witch World was part of that trail.
continuing my reading of woman-authored pulp/golden age sff: just recalled reading this many years ago (decades...) and found i had not put this on here. i remember this was one of the first 'portal fantasies' i read, though not new at the time. and this world of witches is feminist in early sff way. i did enjoy it though i do not know if i was 17 or more, but obviously not enough to follow sequels...
This is the first of the Witch World books and a classic.
To be honest, most of the spec-fic classics I've read lately have been fairly disappointing.
Anyhow, we don't spend too much time in the 40s, as Simon escapes the people pursuing him by striking a deal with a shady character who promises him a portal to the world where he truly belongs.
And off we go with our traditional portal fantasy!Simon finds himself in a new world and immediately sees a person on the run from pursuers.
The book covers an awful lot of ground, some of it well, some if not so well.
You consider the idea of "matriarchy, magic powers require virginity" and see how this plays off a nearby machismo-based society, or how it affects political relations with neighbors either jealous or fearful of their power, or even showing how the idea of "women with power will probably not have children" will affect population growth.Even relative subplots like the inheritance of Verlaine and the Duke's ambitions for a trading port are developed into something that in other hands would consume an entire novel.This is not simple sword-and-sorcery: the Witch World is a strange mix of the magical/psychic, the medieval, and the supertechnological, all carefully thought out, and, at least in the early novels of the series, more similar to Barsoom than anything else.It's easy to see how this one book sprung into the sprawling series and offshoot series.
Not just the Kolder war or the fractious neighbor states, but there are challenges to redefine its own culture and its relations to, say, the Falconers.
Here's how this book goes: boring, boring, boring, amazingly intense action sequence, boring, boring, zombie army attacks!
Then, boring, boring, boring, interesting skinny lady betrothed to bastard, boring, boring, horrifying science experiment!
And, boring, boring, ending that peters out.There are some interesting takes on gender issues that have aged well.
Written in the 1960's, the book asks questions that are still topical: how does the power differential between men and women change with experience?
Andre Norton is well known as one of the greats of the early years of SF & Fantasy.
In the recent past I've read 4 of her short SF novels and was not overly impressed with any of them.
To give her a fair chance I thought I needed to read something from her well known 'Witch World' fantasy novels.This is the first of the Witch World books and it follows a familiar pattern very common in the pulp era.
Overall I think I've given Andre Norton a fair shot, but in the end found her not to my particular taste.
I am currently re reading the Witch World series again.I finished it and can truely say it was like reading it for the 1st time. The story seemed a little familar but I must have forgotten alot of the detail.Anyway I really enjoyed it and am looking forward to reading the rest of the Witchworld books.The ending left it open for lots of possibilities without being a cliffhanger. That is probably what Andre Norton was going for.I would recommend this book to anyone who loves mixed world type Sci fi and Fantasy.
Too many battle scenes and not enough world building. My mind wandered too often while reading this book
Got halfway through and could read no more. This book is just not for me.
I decided to try her out after learning she is considered part of an almost forgotten triumvirate of women who were instrumental in developing science fiction and fantasy as it is today: Anne McCaffrey, C J Cherryh, and Andre Norton.
I have read almost everything by Anne McCaffrey but until now nothing by the other two.Another notable aspect of the three groundbreaking women is they felt no compunction about combining science fiction and fantasy in the same novels, something that had been a purist taboo.
I like that.Witch World begins with Simon Tregarth, a disgraced former Colonel in the World War II US Army, who is on the run.
This is honestly pretty run of the mill sword and planet sort of book in my opinion. I usually really enjoy Andre Norton, but this one fell a little flat and felt like she was pandering to the tastes of the day (though a bit late for this genre). My experience was brought down some by the narrator (this was an audiobook). I like Andre and the genre well enough that I gave it 3 stars and will read the next book in the series when I get a copy. No more audio versions for me with this series.
This was definitely a book that would have benefitted from a good glossary or appendix explaining some of the terms and concepts as it was a little too light on explanations for my taste.This brings us to one aspect of the world that I really did enjoy: the magic.
It also meant that the Witches had to work together with their male army in order to really accomplish anything, showing a fairly equal society in many aspects.
This equality was even highlighted by the disapproval that they felt for the Falconers’ society, which was male-dominated and used their women as breeding machines.
He finds himself on another world, where he promptly helps a witch defeat her own pursuers, and becomes entangled in her land's troubles.When I was growing up, I was well aware of Andre Norton, but I don't believe I read more than a couple of her books.
I read the Time Traders series (with various co-authors), and wasn't impressed, but I figured that it was the Witch World books that were what she was best known for.I'm sorry to say I didn't think much of this first book in the series.
In this novel, the environment and plot were more interesting, but I think what eight books tells me is that I just don't care much for Norton's work.
I am finding that navigating Norton's efforts at exotic to be tedious.
I'm a quarter way through the book, a short book, and I'm still being introduced to new characters that could be likable, but I just don't know where it will stop.
She clearly wants her reader to engage the story on a significant level, but even as the last location I read was blown to smithereens, I still didn't know the characters or care that they had died.
I'll set this aside and perhaps pick it up again someday, but not while I have reading I know I'd rather do.
I read this first around 45 years ago.
As a teen I read it for the adventure.
But I find it worth reading again.
Andre Norton demonstrated her maturity as a writer with this book!
Although a fantasy (with ancient science thrown in) it seems better researched and composed than many of her earlier books.
I look forward to reading the next in the series.
I sincerely believe that Andre Norton helped me find my moral center.
So although Andre Norton's prose is sometimes a little off and the science in her novels dubious, she is a master storyteller and teacher.
I have to be honest... I didn't even finish this book. I don't do that very often, especially with books this short, but it had to be done. It hadn't caught me at all by the halfway point. It was taking me forever to read each page because I'd zone out and read the same paragraph over and over again without realizing it. The characters, the story... None of it was interesting to me. I know a lot of people love this series, and I really wanted to love it too, but it just wasn't doing it for me.
I haven't quite finished this book yet, but for those of you interested in older sci-fi, Andre Norton is/was a pro. In the book Witch World, we travel to a strange new world with a character right out of the World War era. I don't know about you, but this kind of scenario totally suits me. I'm looking forward to reading more of this series.
I'm starting a massive re-read of Witch World novels (at least those I can get hold of - which seems to be 24 out of 30+). I read most of them over 30 years ago. I won't be writing major reviews, but let's just say I'm pleasantly surprised how well this one has held up compared to some of her SF novels.
3/1/17 $.99 for Kindle
Love, love, love this. Even though my despised ex brother-in-law first gave me a copy of this book, I couldn't resist the lure that is the Witch World.
