https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54218.The_Mismeasure_of_Man
Have you ever felt a little upset with white people saying black people are lesser people? Well, prepare to feel furious. Gould documents a series of scientific frauds by racist scientists seeking to show white racial superiority. This book will make your blood boil - but if more people had read it no one would have fallen for all that bell-curve rubbish a few years later. Racism sucks, and it is based on ignorance. If you are looking for a cure to such ignorance, this is as good a place to start as any.
I can get behind propositions (a) through (c), but I find (d) revolting and completely off-base.In fact, my point (b) above, Gould's assertion that scientists' work might be shaped by their biases, is the basis for the ultimate failure of The Mismeasure of Man. Gould "knows" that IQ measures nothing, and that sociobiology is false, and that admitting any innate difference between human minds will lead to social darwinism, so of course, he's churned out this massive synthesis in support of precisely those ideas.
Unfortunately, the book is an example of dishonest cherry picking of findings and selective omission of studies that would ruin the story Gould tries to construct.
Ironically, Gould commits the same "crime" he accuses the racist scientists of: selective bias.There is no scientific honesty in this book, and as a consequence, Gould gives ammo to those he tries to discredit and disarm.
Irony once again.Maybe this topic should be left untouched, as there is great potention for harm associated with it.
That is my own personal conclusion after pursuing the primary literature on the topics raised by Gould.
Before a proper summation can be given, one first has to understand the Why of The Mismeasure of Man. The Why being hundreds of years of conservative, white-folk-do-well-because-they're-smartest ideology supported by "science", and the more recent belief in the existence of an inherited IQ number by which all humans can be ranked, culminating in The Bell Curve, by Herrnstein and Murray (1994).
Intellectually fraudulent, utterly ignorant of modern intelligence research, politically biased.
It wasn't just that I wasn't particularly good at much of anything except tests, it was because of the segregation of students from one another beginning in elementary school and continuting, with ever greater degrees of discrimination, through junior and senior high schools.
A lot of the kids I was being separated from seemed smarter than me by any number of practical estimations.Gould's book is a history and critique of intelligence testing.
His explanation of the method and of its history of abuse by intelligence measurers is clear and telling.Some of Gould's critique is based on a review, conducted by his students, of the data originally gathered and manipulated by early intelligence theorists.
Gould is a good person and an excellent thinker.
This is a call to scientists to examine their own biases and it is a demolishment of centuries of racist genetic testing.
It's also such a pleasure to read someone who is a sound thinker and can write logically.
I know some of his debunkings (i.e. Morton) have since been debunked, but that does nothing to diminish the importance of this work.
Also, he notes that racist "science" tends to proceed from movements demanding equality.
And so it is that the likes of Murray joined by a bunch of other people are once again advancing the guard of IQ determinism.
A history of the use of intelligence testing to support racism, sexism, and class boundaries, focusing on two areas: 19th-century craniometry and 20th-century IQ tests.
(When poor Italian immigrants flooded into America in the early 20th century, research suddenly proliferated "proving" that Italians were a separate, mentally inferior nonwhite race; in Britain, studies focused on supporting the innate rightness of the class system and recommending lesser education for poor children.) Gould's message is ultimately positive: that our mental limits are far less relevant than our mental potential.
So just note that the comments below are offered by a nonprofessional.My comments on The Mismeasure of Man: This book presents an interesting history of various attempts to measure intelligence among groups and attempts to rank groups by "innate" mental ability.
Gould argues, essentially, that such attempts are useless and unfounded because intelligence is not a reified thing, and that preconceived political and social views (bias) have always plagued efforts to measure intelligence and always will.
In addition to this book, I have read Jensen's response to The Mismeasure of Man, an opinion paper by Bernard D.
This book matters. Scientific racism strikes again.
It is an interesting case study of confirmation bias, and Gould claimed that he repeated Morton's measurements to find out that Morton's measurements were indeed influenced by his preconceptions.
Gould seems to forget that he too has his own preconceptions about the topic.I think it is very difficult to read a book that relies on claiming that its opponent is under the influence of confirmation bias.
I suggest that you should read that rather than The Mismeasure of Man.
This was absolutely spectacular!
A scientific look at the prejudices that pseudo science has used to confirm and back unnecessary racism.
An inside look at the so called evidence that has furthered the labeling and segregating of mankind.
It was absolutely flawless!
I loved this book.
Page after page was extremely infuriating.
It is amazing how we can use science to twist facts to our own liking.
It makes me both simultaneously wonder what other current "facts" are being distorted to further agendas, and feel extremely grateful that we are finally trying to put all human beings on an even footing.
One shouldn't read Baron-Cohen without first fortifying oneself with Gould.
Few tragedies can be more extensive than the stunting of life, few injustices deeper than the denial of an opportunity to strive or even hope, by a limit imposed from without, but falsely identified as lying within".I cannot do this book justice in a review.
That the result of this kind of testing would signify some kind of innate, inherited, intelligence is ludicruos - I was sure of that even at 15!
Does an IQ test really measure intelligence, and what precisely IS intelligence?
However, while I would highly recommend Gould's work, I would do so as an entry point to the subject.Gould's prose is highly readable and entertaining as always.
Gould seems to have inadvertently proven his own point as revised measurements of their cranial capacity have been taken and it seems that Morton was mostly right, contra Gould.
Flynn's work on the subject is superior in its scholarship and nuance.Nevertheless, this book is a great place for the lay person to start when it comes to the sordid history of the use of biology and psychology in service of ideology and bigotry.
I was somewhat sceptical then (about a book on science being written for the express purpose of countering a political attitude supposedly resting on scientific grounds), and as it turned out, Gould was overzealous with his case and may have proceeded with just the kind of selective bias he accuses others of (apart from other errors), however commendable his motivation might have been.See- http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Mism...The whole episode provides a somewhat more detached lesson which is still very important (and goes back at least to David Hume, an empiricist well aware of the limits his school of thought imposed itself)- science only tells us how things are, and carries no suggestions about how they ought to be (though it can tell you what ways some outcome might be best brought about).
I haven't read The Bell Curve, nor do I intend to (I have other ways of self-harm), but I am aware of it as a malingering presence over right-wing American politics, whose rhetoric has continuously encroached over Europe and Ireland in the past few years.
I had my opinion before I read this book, and my disappointment stems from feeling that if I wasn't already inclined towards that belief, I would not be persuaded of it; at least, not as regarding modern prejudice.
I have to reflect more so on my own desires or biases as a reader than appraise an apparently sound, if politically unfit academic work.
"Desmitificante" cuando tiene que serlo, Gould da una clase soberbia sobre lo que ha de entenderse como objetividad en la actividad científica y rebusca en el archivo, desempolvando las caras "b" de muchos procedimientos, artículos y estudios cuya repercusión ha llegado a nuestros días.No es una obra difícil, aunque sí es cierto que hay momentos en que uno acaba afectado por la sobredosis de datos y de historias lamentables.
Porque lo que Gould trata son las medidas, como se ha tratado de estratificar las sociedades en base a una serie de datos prejuiciosos y endebles en la mayor parte de los casos.
Ugh, I read this too long after The Bell Curve and so now I can't remember what Jensen did there.
I remember it being a hard, shiny carapace that I couldn't breach.
I've heard that his science is all wrong.
But he's not doing any science, he's critiquing, and maybe his critique is overwrought, that's fine, it is what it is.
I wish this had been a more interesting read.
It was a rare session that I could make it through more than ten or twenty pages.
Now I want to take all of the intelligence tests ever made ever.
This was one of the most boring books I have ever read.
Not only was the book boring, it was insanely negative.
Gould paints a picture of doom and gloom, that mankind is completely subject to their own preconceptions and that all measurements done in the name of science are skewed to show what the scientist wants to see, and no scientific study can be trusted.
Also, other reviewers have mentioned Gould's own skewed perception of the data that he is presented, and they have a good point.
It is just one man's point of view.
Yes, although science relies on cold, hard quantification; it is, at the end of the day, a human enterprise and thus, subject to all of our varieties of weaknesses, biases, opinions, and ugliness.
The book does really make you question the usefulness and validity of standardized tests that are a critical part of western higher education.
ETS itself will admit that current research is mixed at best with regards to correlating GRE performance with graduate school success.
Should be required reading for anyone who's ever taken a standardized test. And even more so for anyone who has ever administered, scored or helped write such a test, or used results from such a test to make judgements about people. The book is both a history of the development and use of measures of intelligence (starting with skull measurements and culminating in the Stanford-Binet), in particular their use in racial and gender based discrimination, and a critical examination of the nature of the data and the statistical analysis methods used to interpret it.
Pathetic
Not as interesting a book as I was expecting - more a historical survey and examination of flaws in IQ testing.
This book, published in 1981, was partially a response to Arthur Jensen, a famous psychometrician and behavior geneticist, who I might consider the 'arch-hereditarian' of modern intelligence research, and whose famous 1969 article drew great ire from the public and a wide variety of intellectuals.
Had I stopped after chapter 5 or so, I would probably give this book at least 4 stars.Unfortunately, Gould does not stop there, and it becomes increasingly obvious that he goes to great care to provide the reader with the most racist and sexist quotes possible in order to impassion them and fill them with rage against those (modern hereditarians) to whom he will later compare the various 19th century outdated western thinkers.
He even predicted what arguments against his book people would make and preemptively debunked them.
One example is there have been two studies that measured Samuel Morton's skulls again to try and claim that Gould was biased and had slandered Morton.
3. Gould's main argument against Morton is that he used uneven sample sizes, threw out numbers that hurt the result he wanted and made other methodological "errors" all of which favored the idea that whites had bigger skulls.
4. Gould also questions the whole assumption that brain size is correlated to intelligence, though he admits some studies show a small correlation, which he attributes to environmental factors like better nutrition.
Though written 40 years ago, Gould's polemic against hereditarianism has not lost any of its potency and urgency.
Whether through craniometry, obscure body measurements, general intelligence or IQ-tests, the ruling class has time and time again found ways to reify social and historical classes as expressions of a timeless, unchanging reality.
IQ 75 is an "unsafe risk in a motorman or conductor, and it conduces to discontent" (Terman, 1919).
Proper vocational training and placement is essential for those "of the 70 to 85 class." Without it, they tend to leave school "and drift easily into the ranks of the anti-social or join the army of Bolshevik discontents" (1919, p.
Written with great detail and volumes of valuable information, this book should be required reading for many different disciplines from anthropology and biology to statistics and history.
Gould shines a light on a long history of bias, bad science, discrimination an racism in areas of education, measure of intelligence, anthropology and even immigration and eugenics.
Unfortunately, I am not well educated in statistics for which I couldn't appreciate the book at its fullest and should revisit it once I have acquired the necessary knowledge.
I believe that this book would be a great addition to any thinking person's library and should be recommended to everyone.
I started reading this book based a friend's recommendation after a discussion about science and politics. Going into it, I understood it to be two things: An argument against the use of science to "prove" preconceived notions, in particular about the supposedly innate cognitive abilities of different races  A larger look at how it's possible to "fight science with science" (my phrase) Given the binary option of saying whether I think Gould is successful in achieving his stated goals, I'd have t
If I am misstating Gould's lack of criticism of the left, I am happy to be corrected in the comments to my review.Factual squishiness: Gould is a good story teller, but after reading some others' critiques about his book, I'm not sure if "good story" equals "good history." That said, in a 1983 review of the first edition of Mismeasure, Bernard Davis points to some problems with Gould's analysis of various scientific studies — problems like completely ignoring things that would refute Gould's arguments.
Evolutionary TheoryThe Mismeasure of Man by Stephen Jay GouldIn The Mismeasure of Man evolutionary biologist, anatomist, and historian of science, Stephen Jay Gould, provides both a historical sketch and scathing critique of the methods and motivations underpinning biological determinism, a theory that “society…is an accurate reflection of biology.” (Gould: 1981:20) Gould critically analyzes two myths: that scientific processes are objective, and that human intelligence is a heritable trait and racially dependent.
Gould’s analysis is geared towards addressing the claim “that worth can be assigned to individuals and groups by measuring intelligence as a single quality;” in taking this approach, Gould exposes the scientific shortcomings and political contexts of biological determinist arguments.
