https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/104535.The_New_Laurel_s_Kitchen
The recipe for the caponata alone makes the book worth it's purchase price.
My husband groans in ecstasy when he is eating it!More than a cookbook, this book details the authors' food philosophy & how to combine foods to follow a healthy vegetarian diet.
The reasoning is;...the "health food" of the sixties, become the wild indulgence of the eighties That just makes me want to grab a spoon & the biggest tub of ice cream I can find!
If you're looking for a good vegetarian cookbook that is not puffed up and is green through and through this is it. Some friends invited us over for dinner and served us the black bean soup from this book. I was so impressed by the simplicity of it that I bought the book immediately. I have been cooking with this book for years and love the whole philosophy of using what you have and not wasting and of overall health in eating and living. I love it's humble, thankful, respectful take on eating and cooking.
The books talks about women as the "keeper of the keys" and about the creativity we can find in our own homes.
Making simple, nourishing meals for our families takes creativity, skill and love (to continue to do this day after day!)I read the introduction every so often when I need a reminder as to _why_ I choose to be home with my children and to be the keeper of the keys in my own home.Note: the later edition of this book is not the same as the 1978 edition.
As crunchy and granola as cookbooks come, this is old-school, hippie vegetarian cooking; there's a chapter for recipies titled "munchies," so you know its authentic. The recipies are hearty and good, but there's only so much of this heavy, sometimes bland cooking I can take. I like back-to-the-basics veggie food more than most people I know, but I like a bit more variety; this is the sort of food that makes people think they could never be vegetarian.
Whole wheat pie pastry made with oil does not taste as good as white with butter or lard, nor is soy sauce a reasonable substitute for salt, although this cookbook would have you believe both are delicious alternatives.
One thing worth noting: nothing is as spicy or as flavourful as they would have you believe (or maybe my taste buds are dead, but I don't think so--I'm not one of those people who uses up a bottle of hot sauce every month), so heed the warnings about how spicy things are only if you never eat hot or spicy food.
One reviewer thought that the emphasis on a woman's role in the home was "neo-fascist," which made me laugh pretty hard.
But then again this same reviewer commented that the photo of the authors looked "hippie/Mormon," which also describes me pretty well.
I saw a more recent picture, and there wasn't a bun or ruffled dress in sight.)Anyway, I loved the emphasis on the spirituality and empowerment of domestic life, even though I work full time and will probably never make bread every day.
And I love that every recipe is essentially a suggestion--improvise, use what you have, try something different.
When illness (lupus) repeatedly threatened my life, I tried preventative measures, reading and experimenting with nutrition.
The first edition of this book lost its cover because every single recipe I tried actually tasted good, unlike most early low-fat low-sugar cardboard.
Flexibility was a plus.
Variations, like adding fish to the corn chowder, held up.
I no longer have the energy to compile the ingredients, and internet searches answer the nutrition facts I used to look up.
But recipes from the web do not have the personal recommendation of this book.
my mom gave me her old beat up copy of this book a few years back-- i mean really beat up-- coverless, and i remember it from childhood (i'm about to turn 28). so i'm finally reading it. it's riveting, seductive even, but this woman-as-spiritual/nutritional-nurturer lifestyle that they seem to be shilling fucking kills me. i'm riveted, though. and seduced! it's like reading danielle steele or something-- bewildering, horrifying, strangely compellingly easy to read. and, of course, once you get past the chit chat, chock full of oaty wheaty bulgary goodness.
My go-to cookbook. I always have it handy. My copy is old and ratty because it's my favorite of my entire cookbook collection. The book was published in 1968 and 1972 so the recipes are older but endure because of their wholesomeness and proven nutritious value. The most thorough and balanced approach to vegetarianism that I have found over the years. Highly recommended if you can still find a copy.
I ran across this book in the clearance section of a used bookstore and bought it for $3.00. It is worth a million dollars!! It initially caught my eye because its illustrations reminded me of the black and white silhouette drawings in the original Boxcar Children  Series. It is part cookbook, part nutritional textbook and part "peace, love and happiness" philosophical storybook. An absolute gem and a must have for any vegetarians out there!!
Reading The New Laurel's Kitchen brought back wonderful memories of my hippie days, when my mind started wrapping around how our health, food production, and earth's health are one and the same. My lodestone books were Diet for a Small Planet and The New York Times Natural Foods Cookbook, but I often borrowed my friend's copy of  Laurel's Kitchen. Her recipes hold up. Her information and philosophy are timeless.
This is a well-loved classic from the days when vegetarianism and foodie-ism weren't so trendy. There are so many great, practical tips and recipes for simple, healthful meals without a lot of the exotic ingredients you find in more recent cookery books.
So far not very useful when one already owns various Moosewoods and Vegetarian Cooking for Everyone.
one of my favorite books I own (except mine is the original 1976 version) the nutritional information is dated, but I still love it and it makes me feel right at home with my hippie self
This cookbook has some good recipes and interesting information about dietary needs. The problem I have with it is the focus on low fat recipes, personally I prefer to focus on getting a reasonable amout of healthy fat so that makes some of the recipes not work for me.
this is an old favorite
I rented this book expecting to find some recipes I might like for whole foods eating.
I must say I was surprised when the first section of the book did not start off as recipes, but rather a long conversation about how the Laurel's kitchen book came to be, and more specifically, about how the author came to change her dietary habits from meat centered to vegetarian, and the trials she faced in learning these new ways.
It has tons of healthy (and vegetarian) recipes in each issue, but it does include refined products in most of the dessert recipes.I plan to purchase this book to keep on hand at home.
Reading it made me think of being in a commune in the 70s (crocheting a blanket at the same time helped) and how I might have used this book to learn how to cook vegetarian food.
The best bits are the first few chapters which are the writers personal stories about cooking for their families and how they didn't know how to cook beans etc.
The recipes are all a bit trad vegetarian and there's not much here that I will be cooking (aside from the really good chapter on bread and maybe some of the soups)and i'm a vegan who tries to be wholefoody and sugar free.
I don't cook from this book much any more, but in college it was really an influential text for me. I really learned a lot about food and cooking from this book, and about cooking without using anything pre-made or frozen or from a mix. There are a few recipes that are my go-to versions of things, but I find now that a lot of the recipes are just too involved with too many ingredients, and take too long to make except for special occasions. But everything I've ever made from this cookbook has been good!
Laurel's Kitchen comes across as so old-fashioned, until I reflect on the fact that this is one of the books that started it all...this is the venerable grandma to the contemporary health food craze/movement (I can never tell which it is), and as such deserves some respect! It is true that I don't make more than 2 or 3 of the recipes--but I refer to it all the time: cooking times for legumes, proportions needed for yogurt, nutritional info on nuts, etc. (I have a poor memory for such details.) Its advice on healthful eating remains useful.
Wow. This is my vegetarian cooking bible.
As a 35 year vegetarian and former owner of a veg restaurant, this is a great veg sourcebook.
For simple solutions, for expert recipes and a list of the contents in foods, tips and charts...it's excellent.
My copy from the 70's is worn and has a makeshift cover on it now.
So, I bought the new one just to have it, in case my worn one completely disintegrates in time!
It's superb.
Try Diana's Apple Crisp.
It's become a standard for our home.
Etching illustrations also are lovely.
One cookbook I would never do without.
If you ever get hold of the original Laurel's Kitchen (unhandy paperback size) it has an introduction called "keeper of the keys" that actually motivates me to do housework (I guess I should read it again as I have much cleaning to do!). This one has a different introduction - it might be called the same (keeper of the keys), but it's not the same. As a cookbook however, this is a vegetarian staple and the larger book is MUCH easier to work with.
I actually read this cookbook. There's an odd, culty Waco-like insistence on a woman's return to femininity vis-a-vis daily bread baking and an amount of cooking that would cripple a restaurant. The back cover (of my 1971 ed.) depicts the three authors in modest updo's and ruffled dresses -- kind of hippie-Mormon. But everything seems tasty. It checks out, foodwise. I made a sandwich with cottage cheese, cinnamon, raisins and sunflower seeds at the book's suggestion.
The lumpier, blander side of vegetarian cooking, and I think that the nutrition in this book is a bit dated. I still love the woodcut art and the writers' vision for a better and more loving and wholesome future. I just wish they had a little more flair with their food. I share their vision and I'm glad to have read it, but I'll be using the recipes in Madhur Jaffrey's World Vegetarian to be part of it, ok?
Probably the first cookbook I ever bought myself, I may have even still been in high school (and a freshly converted vegetarian). I still love it for its gentle tone, simple woodcut-type illustrations, and straightforward recipes. As a teen I think I was also intrigued by the author photo. I knew there was a commune involved somehow and I wondered if the young male co-author was boyfriend to one of the ladies. Hot stuff!
You wouldn't think a cookbook could be good reading, but this one is. Simple recipes for everyday wholesome cooking combined with explanations for using ingredients make this more than a compilation of recipes. Making your own yogurt, sprouting beans, making granola and miso soup...all the basics are here. And advice on things you wouldn't expect in a cookbook such as how to raise your children so they don't become fussy eaters.
I am actually reading the original version of this book printed in 1976. I am re-reading it and have thought about buying the updated version in the past, but then I look at how much "love" this book has already taken (including my notes such as dates I first tried the recipe, and thoughts on how to make the recipe "mine") and I always end up passing it up when I am in the bookstore. It is a book that I always come back to, I love it!!
Warmly written, highly informed, non-oppressive vegetarian cookbook with a very useful nutrition scale at the end. I never feel like I'm reading a preachy anti-meat diatribe; it's great for a well-informed vegetarian whole-foods diet, and equally useful for omnivores looking to expand their side dish repertory, especially into the dark leafy greens. Favorite recipes: Creamed Spinach, Gingery Tomato Soup, Potato Dill Soup, Rasam (spicy Indian broth).
The 1976 version of this book recalls exactly the mood in Berkeley in the 70's. It also has some good recipes; I trace my love of adzuki beans directly to this book. The description of the lunch that Laurel packs for her husband in the introduction is worth hunting down the book at the library or used bookstore.
I read the original one on a visit to some friends, and liked it enough to look for a copy for myself. The original one was out of print though and the new one had different stories to tell. I wish they had included the original preface, though. The main part, the recipes, are all there, and more.
