https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238126.Immortal_in_Death
I mean, how can you not, right?I adore Eve and Roarke.
Fast paced and well written, as always.Great interactions between Eve and Roarke, as always.
Eve is fast becoming one of my most favorite heroines.
I also love how we just keep getting to know Eve/Roarke and all the recurring side characters better and better with every book.I have high hopes for Eve and Sommerset!
And this one ended right before (view spoiler)[the wedding (hide spoiler)], which I would have liked to have "seen." Hoping that gets covered in the next book, but I feel doubtful.
5 Addicted StarsI just knew it was him! That's all...
With Eve and Roarke’s wedding looming, Eve’s nerves were jittering – and having her wedding dress made by one of Mavis’ friends who was a designer was up there with something she would have to force herself to attend.
But she also knew she would find the answers and quickly…When the investigation led into the world of illegal drugs and the obsession of youth; of immortality, Eve found herself in the underworld of New York – and danger.
And would her wedding go ahead?Immortal in Death is #3 in the In Death series and a re-read for me – and just as good as the first time!
Roarke... I just can't get enough of you darling. As always you were amazing. xoxo :) “He loves me.""You sound surprised.""Nobody ever did. Not like this. It's easy to say, for some people. The words. But it's not just words with Roarke. He sees inside me, and it doesn't matter.”
Once again, I loved reading this book! Every character is well-developed. None of them are faultless, except maybe The House. Ahh, the House. Every book gives more to love. The gymnasium. Wow! Wonder what an aqua-track is?Reread...again March 2018I’m pretty sure I read once that Nora Roberts had planned on ending the Eve Dallas books as her usual trilogy. Thankfully she didn’t. This series is always on my go-to selection when I want to revisit my favorite books. Watching her characters grow is such a gift!
4.25 lieutenant stars!Another hit from Eve/Roarke!What more can I say that hasn’t t been said already about this awesome series, expect that as the other previous two books I loved it.
Two people that are so differently socially, at the same time similar in their painful past but are so strong in their convictions for justice.
Each book I read I see their love grow more and more.
Reading the previous books we know Eve had a really traumatic childhood we got bits of it.
The last chapter was as perfect as Eve/Roarke can get in their chaotic lives and will see what else they bring.♥️
More love!Of the three I have read so far  Immortal In Death  is the one I love the most. Things between Eve and Roarked changed in such a raw yet endearing way. Eve laid herself bare at Roarkes feet and it broke my heart to listen to her tell her dark story. Pieces had been revealed but in the moment where she let it all out I was moved.Roarke had sat quietly fighting his anger for what she went through and just listened. With just a gentle touch from him Eve knew she had finally made it out of
Things between Eve and Roarked changed in such a raw yet endearing way.
Eve laid herself bare at Roarkes feet and it broke my heart to listen to her tell her dark story.
Pieces had been revealed but in the moment where she let it all out I was moved.Roarke had sat quietly fighting his anger for what she went through and just listened.
Someone is willing to kill for it.This author continues to do a great job with slowly building who Eve and Roarke are individually and together.
With the way that J.D. Robb left things, I needed to have that next moment with Eve and Roarke.
Beauty and Youth are Desperate Matters for Some . . . Immortal In Death is the third book in J.D. Robb’s In Death series. Even though this story takes place in 2058, it’s one that even today we read about in any newspaper on any given day, or watch on prime time news: Drugs. They make you feel good. Make you feel young. Make you think you’re immortal. Cover Blurb... She was one of the most sought after women in the world. A top model who would stop at nothing to get what she wanted - even anoth
Immortal In Death is the third book in J.D. Robb’s In Death series.
Police lieutenant Eve Dallas put her professional life on the line to take the case when suspicion fell on her best friend, the other woman in the fatal love triangle.
Beneath the façade of glamour, Eve found that the world of high fashion thrived on an all-consuming obsession for youth and fame.
I’ve run out of words to use to express how much I love this series, so at the risk of repeating myself, I’ll repeat myself: The books are…  Intriguing, exciting, captivating, sexy… absolutely incredible!
🔫💊🔫💊🔫I am really becoming close to these characters: Eve and Roarke, Peabody, Feeney, Dr. Mira, Summerset, Mavis and Nadine Furst.(almost like extended family) I might sound like a broken record after I read a few more of these books but for all lovers of Romantic suspense you have to checkout this series because it is AWESOME !!!!!😎Finally to Karla and Hulya thanks for all your wonderful words of encouragement as I discovered my love of this excellent series and I am happy that we can share these book experiences together.
Feminist Senses are like Spidey Senses, but they originate in the uterus and make me a bit crankier and wanting chocolate.hum, where exactly do the Spidey Senses originate?So, in this book Eve is trying to solve some murders that seem to have a link in a new drug.
just sayin'Along with trying to solve the murders, Eve is planning her wedding.
When Mavis, who has blue hair this week and rarely dresses in much more than gemstones, decides to hook Eve up with a designer to make her a wedding dress, Roarke gets a little worried.
Suspense 4.5 stars / Romance 4 starsI admire Eve’s (= author’s) sharp mind. Damn, it was intense. Eve is a star, no doubt. Love her.And I start to like Roarke, very slow, but nevertheless.I hope no his ex-lovers would be killed in the next book; 1 ex dead in the 2nd book and 1 ex dead in this book. Playboy trope wouldn’t be appreciated. But I liked that he was jealous. Yep, Eve is the best, man, watch out!
Sigh ... Oh Roarke, you are one in a million. Would have liked to have been at the wedding though. Off to start the next one - wonder will I get tired of it after about Book 12 or so.
These keep getting better, even though I completely guessed who the "bad guy" was again (I only point this out because I am the type of reader who usually doesn't figure it out, so if I manage it the book's hints were particularly unsubtle). The back story of Eve's childhood was shocking! Looking forward to the next book :)
Eve gets a murder case2.
Roarke does something illegal to help Eve, with a charming grin of course.7.
Though she's purportedly "the best" Roarke figures the case out before she does and just in the nick of time to rescue her from the actual bad guy, who holds off on killing her so he can describe his nefarious deeds in detail.I really like all the secondary characters, as they have rich and unique personalities, but the plots are a bit too predictable so far.One more book, and I'll decided if I quit or stick with the series.
Although Eve has dealt with Roarke being involved in her two previous cases (that we’ve seen, I mean), she suddenly finds herself faced with Mavis’s involvement.
With Mavis, Eve is furious to find herself forced to hurt her and scare her as she does her job.It was pretty awesome to finally have a clear picture of what led to Eve being found when she was a child.
But the part that I really loved was toward the end when Mira, Peabody, Nadine, and Mavis all got together with Eve and got drunk.

I love their dynamics because even though Eve loves Roarke, she has issues expressing it and coming to terms with the fact that someone like him could love her back.
There's instead a major turning point in Eve's life, and although I would have expected it to be revealed further in the series, to see how Roarke stood by her side and fought for their happiness made me want to slow clap and to kiss him.
"I won’t let you go, Eve. If you didn’t love me or want me or need me, I would have to.
But you do love me and want me.

I loved this!
Figured out the identity of the murderer pretty early, but still had fun with this one. The memories resurfacing of what happened to Eve were heartbreaking and brutal. Roarke is so amazing with the emotional support he gives Eve! He understands her so well. I love that they work things out without drama and angst! I've fallen hard for Roarke!Same narrator as the last two books, Susan Eriksen, and she's wonderful.
AudiobookI liked the premise behind the mystery, but this might be my least favorite so far. In the previous two books, Eve was riding on the very edge of being a meany. In this one she was very mean. Why are cops allowed to infiltrate funerals and question people, it seems so uncouth and insensitive. Nevertheless, Nora Roberts did another fantastic job with the mystery.
In Immortal in Death, Eve is once again faced with a killer.
First, a well known fashion model is killed...and the prime suspect is Eve's best friend.
But they let her 'detect' back when Roarke was a suspect, so why not continue the trend here?
I tried to just ignore the logics of the story and instead just settled in to get more sexy Roarke and kick ass Eve, with a dash of funny as hell Mavis, Eve's friend.
I'm excited to read the next, if only to see if domestic bliss has settled Eve to the fact that Roarke is a permanent fixture in her life.
He knows what Eve is going through but will not let her try to hide from her past and he pushes her to get through them and doesn't let her pull away because he believes that she is strong than that.
She is a great character but without Eve's troubling past.
There are so many other characters that are in this series that make Eve who she is or are a part of Eve in ways that I also enjoy but you would have to read to book to find out.
Re-read August 2016Still a great book.
In the first two books it was her boyfriend that was a suspect, now it’s her best friend.
Good thing for them that she’s made from all kinds of awesome when it comes to clearing crimes.
She’s made from all kinds of awesome, period.
Speaking of that past, we did know a few things about it from the previous books but I so wasn’t ready for it.
At least when he was a suspect he had a certain kind of mystery about him.
I know he has a huge fan club around here but I wish Eve had a more realistic love interest.
I'm re-reading this one again...Well, actually listening the audiobook this timeAnd I kind of really love this one because (view spoiler)[ Eve try to pick her wedding dress and we met Leornado, who later on became the only designer who Eve trust to dress her for those tons of Roarke's posh party:) (hide spoiler)]
Eve is down on her luck here clearly. I mean it's hard enough to get ready for the wedding without both your best friend AND your dress maker being involved in a murder investigation. Being the primary for the case you'd think Eve could give her friends some slack, but it's actually worse. She has to be twice as hard. "I thought it was 'innocent until proven guilty.'""That's just one of the bigger lies we live by." That doesn't mean that wedding preparations are put on hold, no way. Roarke is no
Eve is down on her luck here clearly.
I mean it's hard enough to get ready for the wedding without both your best friend AND your dress maker being involved in a murder investigation.
Being the primary for the case you'd think Eve could give her friends some slack, but it's actually worse.
She has to be twice as hard.
"I thought it was 'innocent until proven guilty.'""That's just one of the bigger lies we live by."
That doesn't mean that wedding preparations are put on hold, no way.
He knows if he lets it slide Eve would have them married in her office, between suspect interrogations.
In this installment, Eve has to prove the innocence of her closest friend (Mavis) as she became a murder suspect. Reading this series proves I suck at guessing whodunit. I am terrible a detective. Anyways, we also found out about Eve's heartbreaking childhood. What that monster of a father did to her. And Roarke. *dreamy sigh* Without a doubt, they are a good match and good partners. 😀
I thought I had the killer all figured out. Well played, JD Robb.
I solemnly swear that I will find a book in this series that I like as much as the others do.
Maybe I wouldn't have noticed this as much if I hadn't read the first three books back to back.
I also found it odd, that she is breaking rules right and left, but when it came down to her own traumatic revelations...she was going to ruin her career and postone her wedding, to follow procedure.Beyond those few nit picks, I really liked Eve's growth in this one...though she is still hurting Roarke at times, it can be somewhat forgiven considering her past.
And how many lives is Eve going to be responsible for ruining??
