https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8804.The_Burgess_Animal_Book_for_Children
Fantastic book of nature lore pertaining to North American animals. Accessible and well written. I dare say I liked it even better than his Bird Book. (AmblesideOnline year 2 book)
I grant that this is a living book, but I just didn't enjoy it very much. The Burgess books cover a LOT of ground, almost too much to really retain much. It was usually one of my daughter's favorite school books at any given time, but she had trouble narrating it. I will try something different for nature lore with my next student.
Although I've posted this review on the readily accessible Dover reprint of this children’s literature classic, that’s not actually the version The Eight-Year-Old is reading.
It keeps the cost down, certainly, but it’s not the same.So while we have the Dover reprints for books like The Adventures of Happy Jack and Old Mother West Wind, I really wanted the Eight-Year-Old to read his longer nature books in an older version with color photographs.I had my copy of The Burgess Bird Book for Children from my childhood library already, and this past summer, The Eight-Year-Old and I stumbled across a 1950 edition of The Burgess Animal Book for Children in an antique store in upstate New York.
I am reading this with my 5-year-old animal loving son. We are having so much fun reading it. He begs me to read more & more. We have both learned so much from it & can't wait to read more of Burgess' books. After each chapter we rush to the computer to look up pictures & more info on the animals we learned about.
Great book of knowledgeContains a fair amount of negative reference to hunters, which I chose to omit while reading aloud to my children. Still the book is full of wonderful information about all the mammals that live in North America.
4.5 stars. Seems like Burgess books have to grow on me. At first I am always a little put off by the whole "lessons-through-talking-animals" thing. But by the end I really enjoyed this one and my kids (ages 10 and 8) loved it.
I thoroughly enjoyed the experience of reading this to my boys for almost a year now. It's packed with great sources of information on each mammal of North America. I'll always treasure the memory of this book.
Charlie loved this book.
Great for young children, we listened to it over breakfast and lunch as an audio-book!
First read by my mother before I was able to read.
I liked the stories and how they explained the animals.
The best book ever!!
Although I grew up with the Burgess Bird Book, I think this was the first time I've read the Burgess Animal Book.
If I had kids, I would probably read this to them.Similar to the Bird Book, this book introduces Peter Rabbit to the mammals of North America.
It feels a bit more contrived than the Bird Book, since a lot of the mammals it talks about don't live where Peter does.
At times, the passages describing the different mammals get a bit old, and Mother Nature seems oddly judgmental on occasion.
The book IS almost 100 years old, and actually was probably fairly enlightened at that time.
Sounds kind of silly maybe, and some might be turned off by the talking animals and language of years past...but my six and four year old daughters ask for the next chapter often.
They learn a lot about animals, retain the information, and have fun listening to a story.
We like all of the other Burgess books we've read too...like Old Man Coyote etc.
These are a fun way to learn about nature, gain an attention span, and teach respect for life without dumbing any of it down for little ones.
Most children enjoy learning about animals, mine included. Thorton Burgess does not disappoint in this lovely classic perfect for natural science studies. After reading the chapter we would view YouTube videos of the animals. I would try to find the ones that put them in their natural settings. The kids created a taxonomy record using the Peterson Field Guide Coloring Book following the key provided by Kelly Kenar, http://www.amblesideonline.org/TaxonK...
Ok.... this is a doozy of a book. We normally love everything we read by Burgess, but this was just awful. We were constantly stopping to look up pictures of animals so that we could figure out what was being discussed... normally that is to be expected, but this time it was in excess. Also, the stress on knowing the official classification of the animals is outdated. We have moved on to an assortment of other living books about animals, and we are perfectly happy now.
My 6 year old is a big fan of Burgess and loves all the characters in his stories. I love that the stories are written well and have factual information about the different animals and their characteristics or traits woven into the stories seamlessly. Definitely recommend for early elementary kids.
We read this for school and my only regret is that we got it on the kindle instead of a physical copy. No illustrations in our version! Regardless of that, the kids LOVED it and begged for more every day. We learned a ton about mammals and it often spurred further study.
I read this book with my seven year old son who is an avid animal lover. In my taste it gave a lot more details about animals then I typically am interested in. However, my son loved it and paid careful attention to each chapter. He insisted it was a five star book.
Last year we read the bird version of this book and listened to Burgess's Old mother West Wind tales. Some of the chapters are tense and skilled with details we'll never remember about assorted North American animals. Listening to the Librivox recording in the car is our preferred method.
This was our science reading book for terms 1 & 2 for Year 2 - Ambleside Online. We LOVED this book! We still refer to this book when we see animals in the wild such as a rabbit, mole, etc. A wonderful nature book!
I thought that this Burgess animal book was actually, really good to read. I love it because there are stories inside with animals that I really like. I hope some of my friends and other people will enjoy this book when they read it!
I'm rating this a four even though I found it a little dry at times. My children seemed to enjoy it and remember various characteristics of the different animals they were introduced to, so it served its purpose for us!
Read aloud with Violet. She loved it and it was a great introduction to animals and how they live.
I'm so glad the final chapter was narrated by Kevin McAsh! I really love his voice <3
Always charming. A favorite in this house.
IT WAS AMAZING! It tells about animals. I loved it.WOWWWWWW!!!!!!!!!
FALSE
A beloved classic from my childhood.
