https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/925367.The_Climb
Contrast this with Krakauer's Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster (view spoiler)[I searched for Jon Krakauer and then Into Thin Air and finally on the 6th screen the book with a cover came up.
What's with this crappy search engine?
(hide spoiler)] where he slags off Boukreev as a guide who put his own ambitions first and didn't do enough to save people in the disaster that was the 1996 climbing seaon on Everest.
Despite Krakauer’s efforts to convince readers otherwise, Anatoli Boukreev remains one of the most respected climbers in mountaineering history and ultimately received the David A.
He remained, until his death in 1997, incredibly humble regarding his fantastic achievements and stoically respectful of the mountains he lived (and died) in.
As a response to Jon Krakauer’s poor evaluation and publication of the event, Boukreev and DeWalt paint an objective and detailed portrait of what really happened that day.
While Boukreev had over twenty years of high-altitude training and experience including previous Everest summits, Jon Krakauer was simply a disgruntled writer with minimal qualifications to climb a dangerous peak.
Boukreev, however, doesn't get that asterisk next to his error: he made the decision to guide without oxygen looooong before he was at altitude- and that decision, without a doubt, killed people.
period.I'm not going to get into the fact that lots of those people shouldn't have been up there in the first place, or who's fault that is- but whether or not he liked the role (he confessed in an interview he did not), he was a GUIDE, and despite his heroic efforts at the end, and the fact that i was really and truly emotionally moved by his attitude and actions post-disaster...
I've read a lot of comments others have written about this book, and how many people say that Krakauer's book is so much more entertaining and blah blah blah....
Lets not forget that Krakauer is a writer and has to sell books.
Anatoli deserves more credit than he got in "Into Thin Air." And someone please tell Krakauer to write a story about someone other than himself.
I lost a lot of respect for Krakauer after reading the climb.
As well as Lene Gammelgaard who was in the Mountain Madness expidition with Anatoli also wrote a book.
I never give 5 stars to a book.
Written in response to Jon Krakauer's "Into Thin Air" Anatoli Booukreev defends his climbing without oxygen and going on ahead of his team to reach the summit.
His best reply, I thought, was his answer to Krakauer's criticism about not using oxygen.
When the stragglers did not show up at base camp, Boukreev describes how he went back out into the white out and saved several people, while Krakauer simply went to sleep in his tent.
True, Boukreev was a guide, and Krakauer a client, but this was a life or death situation, and Krakuer quesitoned Boukreev's judgement and commitment, when in fact it was Anatoli Boukreev, not Krakauer, who had the strength and skill to respond to the emergency and save others.
I love reading about mountain climbing even though wanting to be the one-thousandth person to climb and having fixed ropes and ladders laid out by underpaid third-world sherpas hardly seems like a valid way to spend $70,000.
(I'm reading Into the Silence: The Great War, Mallory, and the Conquest of Everest.)I read Jon Krakauer's Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster and very much liked it.
When it comes right down to it, I don't remember any substantial discrepancies between the two books and suspect that much of the controversy is manufactured for PR purposes.
I won't get sidetracked on Newts, I'm not even entirely certain if they have tails, but I will say that you won't get the full gist of what went down on Mountain Everest in 1996 unless you read both books.In 1996 eight climbers were killed attempting to climb Mt Everest.
Krakauer suggests that Boukreev demonstrated a lack of leadership and questionable concern for the climbers he was guiding.Boukreev subsequently released ‘The Climb’ partly in response to ‘Into Thin Air’, but also to deal with his feelings after the tragedy.
I am glad that Boukreev had a chance to share his perspective on the 1996 Everest tragedy before he died.
Boukreev's climbing and summiting experience make this a fascinating look at many details of an Everest climb.
It is unfortunate that Krakauer and Boukreev could not have agreed more on their very different accounts of the 1996 summit attempt.
Boukreev could not find or rouse anyone else in Camp IV to assist in further rescue efforts which might have saved Namba, a client incapacitated close to camp, or others.I consider this a must-read for those who enjoy non-fiction adventure accounts.
To understand "The Climb" one pretty much needs to also have read "Into Thin Air", another account of the disaster authored by Jon Krakauer, who was also among those involved.
In his work, Krakauer questioned certain actions taken by Boukreev, and "The Climb" is obviously also his defence."Into Thin Air" is an obvious point of comparison for "The Climb".
While the text makes valid points defending Boukreev's actions, there are some unnecessary jabs at Krakauer, which fail to fully appreciate that he was a less experienced client, not a expedition guide.
A good layout is given of the competitive nature of Everest guide tours, the tension and drive that comes with wanting to be number one combined with the desire to be successful in business.
Immediately it is clear from the get-go that the expedition leaders make some crucial mistakes and cut corners in their ambition to grab the brass ring -- getting as many people to the summit as possible.Also the book explains very clearly through simple sketches of character and quotes from survivors how privilege combined with ambition can lead to blinded ambition.
Did the groups build cohesion?
In this book, readers of Jon Krakauer's best selling Into Thin Air can hear the other side of that particular tale.
The leaders of both teams - New Zealander Rob Hall, and American Scott Fischer - died despite being world-class mountaineers and Everest veterans.
So did three members of Hall's team, while a fourth barely got off the mountain alive.
All of the Fischer guides and clients survived, though, and none suffered the kind of horrific frostbite that left Hall client Beck Weathers both maimed and disfigured.
Krakauer's book offers one answer.
This book, co-authored by Scott Fischer's head guide, offers quite another.
De Walt does an excellent job of chronicling events and clearing up discrepancies caused by other authors.Anatoly Boukreev is a hero who saved several people's lives that day.
Anyone who tries to tell you Anatoly was the villian is lying to you.If anyone should have seen the storm coming, it should have been the basecamp teams, who would normally have been charged with watching the incoming weather.
Although told from Anton Boukreev's perspective, there are few details of his personal or inner life; the text concentrates on what happened during April and May of 1996, interspersing text from interviews with Boukreev and other expedition members.I thought it was very worthwhile to get another account of the events of 1996, and I thought Boukreev had a valid reason to want to refute Krakauer's assertion that he has been derelict in his guiding duties.
Also, the way in which Boukreev's co-author chooses to intersperse the recitation of events with long interview quotes makes for an uneven and sometimes confusing narrative.
After reading Krakauer's book, I had the sense that Boukreev was slacking big time, being a snob, and not a team player.
After reading Boukreev's book, I think Krakauer did take some cheap, uninformed shots.
It's a case of he-said he-said.For the record, I thought it was EXTREMELY distasteful for Boukreev to include a photo of two climbers by a torso (though it looks like a body from the waist down, not a torso) he "discovered".
This just adds to what I think is his feeling of superiority, as in "this fool wasn't a good enough climber to not get killed and cut in half".
I read this book a bit less than a year after finishing Into Thin Air (Jon Krakauer).
It was a little hard to read about these tragic events again but I think it's important to read this book as well as Into Thin Air. You get a very different perspective - Anatoli was a guide, Krakauer was a client with nothing close to the experience Anatoli had (in high altitude mountaineering).In Into thin Air Anatoli is painted as the "bad guy" but in fact he was a hero who saved three lives while seriously risking his own.
Krakauer's relentless attempts at discrediting Anatoli's character really baffles me.As you read this book you get to know Anatoli's character more and you come to understand him a lot better.
I read John Krakauer's Into Thin Air a couple of years ago and although the actual climbing sequences were gripping, I was really annoyed at the judgemental descriptions specifically of Anatoli Boukreev.
Not until after the expeditions were off the mountains did the conflict actually get room in the book.
The margin of error is very small on top of the world and poor communications can quickly turn deadly.The last part of the book recounts another expedition to Everest with a group of Indonesian climbers Boukreev supported, giving him room to explain his view on the role the expert climber should have.
Protams, situācija, ka Everestā var kāpt gandrīz ikviens, ja vien maks atļauj pārdesmit tūkstošus ieskaitīt ekspedīciju firmas kontā, ir absurda jau pašā tās idejā.
Un visdrīzāk arī likumsakarīga.Pieredzējušais alpīnists Bukrejevs ekspedīcijā darbojās kā gids un uz savu spēku izsīkuma robežas izglāba trīs cilvēkus.
Sāpīgākais gan sekoja pēc tam - nosodījums par savtīgumu un egoismu, kā arī pašpārmetumi par neizglābto klienti un draugu.
Diemžēl ik gadu Everests paņem vairāku cilvēku dzīvības, bet tajā pašā laikā pievelk tūkstošiem alpīnistu.Manā redzeslokā šī grāmata, protams, nonāca pateicoties nesen iznākušajai filmai Everests, kas manī radīja interesi "parakt dziļāk".
Iemetīšu aci arī Krakauera grāmata, jo gan jau patiesība ir kaut kur pa vidu.
The writer, Anatoli Boukreev was one of the guides on the Mountain Madness expedition without Jon Krakauer, and it gives more detailed information about this other group of very interesting people.
Another way that it differs from Jon Krak's book is that it gives detailed stories about the months before the Everest climb when the guides had to go early and set things up with the Sherpas.
It gives an account of the climb from a guide's perspective and there are many interesting techincal descriptions of how they actually climbed the mountain, including setting up ropes, ice climbing, analysis of logistics like the oxygen supply.
The 1996 Everest disaster made famous by 'Into thin air' by Jon Krakauer has its share of biases and wrong depiction of events, including the role of Anatoly Boukareev who was shown in poor light in the book as relinquishing responsibility and as not one who risked self to save others.
However, the accounts of others on the climb that very day and interviews of other team members throw a different picture, that of a helpful Boukareev who not only risked his life but also saw that he aids people in completing the climb.
Anatoly Boukareev's account of the 1996 disaster is a great narrative of the tragic event, but it also removes several lies propagated by Jon Krakauer in his book.
Reading these two together does a number of things: 1) gives a balance to the stories coming off of the mountain 2) demonstrates how 2 people in the same place witnessing the same event can have such different takes on it, and 3)really demonstrates how much altitude can affect you.Happily, Boukreev had assistance writing his story and the result is a very readable book.
Sadly, there will be no more books by this extraordinary mountaineer as he perished in an avalanche on Annapurna in Dec. 1996.
The Climb was written in response to Into Thin Air, a book that harshly criticized Anatoli Boukreev.Which account is more truthful? I don't know. Which book is better? Into Thin Air.I wish that Boukreev had paired up with a talented writer to tell his story so it wouldn't feel so clumsy, so rushed, and so defensive.
During the book he has some not-so-kind things to say about Anatoli Boukreev, who was a guide for Scott Fischer's Mountain Madness expedition.
It also seems that he disliked confrontation, and hated to say no, so that several of the climbers who were at the South Col on May 9 shouldn't have really been there, owing to their lack of fitness.The logistics of the expedition were also far from optimal - they only had barely enough oxygen for all the people on the mountain, and the plan to fix lines to the summit was never acted upon.
On the day of the summit attempt, he sent Boukreev and his other guide Neal Beidleman up the Mountain at the head of their team, while Fischer himself would sweep at the rear.
Man tuvs ir zināmais - "par kalniem labāki var būt tikai kalni.." (V.Visockis), tāpēc varbūt nespēju būt objektīva.
Es esmu tajā pusē, kurā mīt viedoklis, ka "lielie" kalni nav jāpadara par piedzīvojumu objektu, kurā augstkalnu alpīnisti aiz rokas uzved nesagatavotus kāpējus.
"Lielie" kalni ir tik ļoti varenāki par mums, ka, lai cieņā liektu ceļus to virsotnē, ir jācīnās.
Bet es neticu, ka īstie augstkalnu alpīnisti spēj būt savtīgi un nevērīgi.
Jo kalni un šīs īpašības nav savienojamas.
Bet es izlasīšu, jo varbūt viedokļi, kurus esmu dzirdējusi par Krakauera grāmatu, ir subjektīvi.
Un tāpēc, ka grāmata ir par kalniem...
I was told to read this book after I finished "Into Thin Air"-and I am glad I did.
According to Krakauer, he decided to leave his climbers at or near the summit and descend toward camp-thereby not giving his charges the particular guidance they may have needed to avoid disaster.
This book tells Boukreev's side of the story-and to be honest it isn't that different from Krakauer's version.
I liked this book because it told the story from the guides point of view.
Boukreev was doing what he thought was right in leaving the clients with the other 2 guides.
I also felt that Boukreev's account is more defensive (which maybe it ought to be in response to Krakauer's).However, I respect Boukreev as a client but don't feel he made the best guide.
Some of his "heroics" may not have been necessary if more "guiding" had been done along the way.Still, I find the fault lies mainly with the leaders.
I can't believe they didn't stick with their turn-around times.
There were contributing factors of inexperienced clients, weather, etc but I believe everyone would have lived if they had stuck with even a 2 pm turn-around time.
Snow, wind, biting cold, rocks, and impossibly thin air that mockingly laughs at the Rocky Mountains.I know there's a movie about this disaster coming up.
I read Into Thin Air and had to keep reading.
This is a good rebuttal to Jon Krakauer's inference that Anatoli Boukreev was not doing his job as a guide.
I didn't know that the altitude was bad on eyes that had the radial keratotomy procedure done back in the day.
(LASIK does not seem to affect altitude climbing that much.)I found it sad that Anatoli was killed a year later on Annapurna.
2.5 stars:This is another personal account of the disasterous 1996 season on Everest which John Krakauer wrote about in "Into Thin Air". A lot of people died and there was a lot of controversy surrounding some of the statements made in Krakauer's book and statements made by others about the actions of guides on the mtn and the way events unfurled. Anatoli Boukreev is a professional climber and guide who was in the thick of it and while he is very informative and insightful, the book is slow going and difficult to get into.
If you read and loved Into Thin Air, you must read The Climb! This book is Anatoli Boukreev's response to Krakauer's criticisms of him in his novel. After reading Into Thin Air, you're left thinking Boukreev is an eccentric daredevil who took unnecessary risks while on Everest. Boukreev's response, while not angry/whiny or otherwise unnecessarily defensive, paints a different story. A great book to read, especially if you've already read Into Thin Air!
I read Into Thin Air years ago, and I love to read Krakauer. After reading this, I was a little disappointed with him for how he portrayed this side. I have always thought of him as a fairly straightforward writer, but I think his own personal involvement may have clouded his judgment in the writing of his book. If you've read Into Thin Air, do yourself a favor and read this book as well.
This one is about the same events of May 10 and 11, 1996, the most lethal year on Chomolungma (Mount Everest) depicted in the book "Into Thin Air", the movie "Everest" and "Left For Dead" all of which have merit.
I loved "Into Thin Air" but this one is an even better book--although I recommend reading both and reading Krakauer's first.
I loved the writing style of DeWalt who elegantly told Boukreev's story.
What I liked most was that this book was NOT written defensively, while it did defend Toli against the unjust accusations of Jon Krakauer.
