https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21936809-the-kind-worth-killing
Holy. Effing. Shit. Now THIS was a damn great book. Everything I hoped both Gone Girl and The Girl On The Train would be...but weren't.
Fans of Gone Girl and The Girl on the Train should be all over this novel (but I thought Kind/Killing was much better than the bestselling-but-forgettable Girl/Train).The story opens with a man and woman, Ted and Lily, chatting in an airport lounge.
The chapters alternate in their points of view, so we see the story unfold from both Ted and Lily's perspective.The plot starts out simple, but things quickly get more complicated.
(Murder is hard, you guys!) There are several juicy turns, but I am being vague on details so I don't spoil anything for my fellow readers.The alternating-chapters technique has been crazy popular in recent years, and it works well in this book.
And your wife, for example, seems like the kind worth killing.”We are brought up to believe that murdering someone is the worst thing we could ever do, but is it?
When Ted Severson sees Brad Daggett, a man he has been paying an abundant amount of money to build his dream house, bend his wife, Miranda, over a table and have consensual sex with her, it sets off a string of events that...leads...to...murder.
In fact, she tells him that his wife sounds like  the kind worth killing.You’d never know to look at her, but Lily is an unusual young woman.
She is a woman who doesn’t believe in letting people get away with things like infidelity or lying.
This book is featured on this week's Throwback Thursday @ https://readrantrockandroll.com/2017/...The Kind Worth Killing by Peter Swanson is a psychological thriller that will have you guessing until the end!
Just who are the kind worth killing?If you haven't read this book, I recommend skipping my review and the blurb.
There aren't any big spoilers here, but going in blind is probably the best...The story starts out with Lily and Ted. The two strangers come together for a game of truth which turns into a plan for murder.
This is one of the best psychological thrillers I've read.
HA.....WHAT AN ENDING! (smile)Murder here.....Murder there.....Murder everywhere in this page-turning mystery-thriller! I was surprised more than once, thoroughly entertained from beginning to end, and even found myself rooting for the devious and dangerous little psycho killer.....well, most of the time.Great Read!
Oh Lord does this book keep the bodies dropping as a psycho killer keeps killing.Ted Severson meets Lily Kinter on a flight.
Lily shares a little about her life with Ted, but she does leave out some minor (major) details.
I have to say I was shocked when the story turned on it's head and of course, I did not see that coming.Once the story turns, more is revealed about Lily's past and a police investigation begins.
I went into this book not knowing the twist and I loved the way this book did a 360 on me.
This book was a lot of fun. 4.5 Stars. If you like psychological thrillers definitely give this one a try. The first twist totally threw me for a loop. I'm surprised The Girl on the Train was hyped more than this book was. I found a The Kind Worth Killing to be much better.
I don't know how I missed this novel when it came out but I'm glad I finally read it.
It was an excellent thriller!Ted and Lily met on a flight back to the States.
He shares that he recently found out his wife is cheating on him with his contractor.
In his devastation he tells Lily (jokingly) that he would kill his wife for her cheating and is surprised when Lily agrees and supports this decision.
From then on the story turns darker and what follows it's a thrilling novel.The book is narrated from alternating points of view and takes place mostly around the Boston area.
Peter Swanson takes us on a twisty turn-y action packed thriller that begins with a simple conversation between two strangers at an airport bar.
Ted was surprised that not only did the lovely mystery woman named Lily Kinter, not flinch away with distain but heartedly agreed that he should kill his wife.
. Ted both drunk and a little infatuated with the beguiling Lily soon finds himself in a surreal conversation with this strange woman plotting the murder of his wife.
Oh how foolish I was, I thought I figured this story out and now I was going to enjoy a twisted but predictable tale.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/Hey guys, I just read the next Gone Girl!!!! Nah, just kidding. This one was actually a retelling of an oldie . . .  which I didn’t even realize was a book. Some booknerd I am, huh? Anywho, to me there is no greater timesuck than a Hitchcock movie marathon and Strangers on a Train is one of my all-time faves.At the airport bar before a trans-Atlantic flight, Ted meets Lily. After having one too many cocktails, Ted starts dropping truth
Anywho, to me there is no greater timesuck than a Hitchcock movie marathon and Strangers on a Train is one of my all-time faves.At the airport bar before a trans-Atlantic flight, Ted meets Lily.
And your wife, for example, seems like the kind worth killing.”
That being said, I still didn’t love it.Being a fan of the Hitchcock classic, I got sucked in right away to the idea of this story and anxiously awaited some of this .
Think I’m kidding????
#snoreBut like I said, everyone else seems to really love it so I probably just read it wrong : )
She dips her fingers into the pond and the concentric circles of ripples take their effect."Chet, can you do me a favor?" I don't think that I'd ever used his name before, and the word sounded strange in my mouth, like a swearword I wasn't supposed to say.
And so it begins.....Peter Swanson takes us for a ride through the expected and the not-so-ever-expected notches of this story.
Each chapter takes you into the deadly mindset of each flawed character.
At the same time, you can't look away for fear of missing a loaded detail.
When I first started reading this I started to categorize people I knew who pissed me off.
I need to read this!Swanson has created a sensual thriller where 2 strangers meet at an airport and decide to play a game of truth telling.
It quickly becomes a recipe for the murder of a spouse.
You don’t deserve to live and I’m doing the world a service for removing you.
Only true psychopaths get away with murder.
They live and breathe the plotting of a death exhaling only once the plan is executed.
It was a quick and enjoyable read.
This story revolves around four crazy people doing crazy stuff with plenty of crazy plot twists along the way just like that other book I mentioned.
I loved how the story begins with Ted and Lily running into each other at the airport and having an interesting conversation.
And, I loved how the second half of the book resets everything and flips the story into something completely different than I thought it was going to be.
The only thing that bugged me was how convenient some things were from some people, especially one of them, when it came to certain things that happened in particular sections of the book.
I’d taken enormous risks in the past two weeks, and I was lucky to have gotten away with them.
I would live a quiet life and make sure that no one could hurt me again.
I would continue to survive, knowing, as I’d known that night in the meadow, the stars pouring their light down on me, that I was special, that I was born with a different kind of morality.
The morality of an animal—of a crow or a fox or an owl—and not of a normal human being.
Peter Swanson, auth
The sudden changes in direction may generate a bit of screaming, but it’s all good.Peter Swanson - from Dead Good Books It starts with a nod to, well, a bit more of a full body embrace of, Strangers on a Train, a 1950 psychological thriller by Patricia Highsmith, in which two men who meet while traveling get to sharing their troubles and decide that permanently eliminating each other’s problems might be the perfect solution.
Nicola Mira’s interview with Swanson for Thriller Book Journal was the source of Swanson’s comment about sudden change that I included in the review.
But, but…Each chapter title is the name of a character who tells their version of the story.
It’s the middle of the book and I’m glued to the page, when POP!—a fantastic twist, one that was impossible to see coming.
So I’m to believe there are FOUR killers (all inter-related) in one story?
(And it turns out you actually met her once.) And your girlfriend talks you into murdering her husband—sure, happens all the time.Second, and this one is a killer (no pun intended): Two characters describe their moment of death!
Solidly entertaining, and a real page-turner. It got a little messy towards the end, but it's still very good. Recommended if you liked THE GIRL ON THE TRAIN--and if you didn't, you still might like this if you thought TRAIN was too slow. (view spoiler)[The main character here is also definitely more of a clear cut, unpleasant stereotype than the other book's everyday protagonist/villain. (hide spoiler)]
So. Fucking. Good.
A PROUD ADDITION TO THE TWISTER HALL OF FAME at www.booksbejeweled.com“I don’t think murder is necessarily as bad as people make it out to be.
It won a couple of awards when it was released in 2015, but The Girl on the Train was published around the same time and that press junket steamrolled over any serious consideration The Kind Worth Killing was gaining as the go-to novel that year.A modern take on the Patricia Highsmith classic, Strangers on a Train, the story is told mostly through the voice of Lily.
Although I don’t always enjoy how many authors use this technique, I felt that in this case, Peter Swanson did a masterful job at using past narratives to provide details, previous connections and clues.
I also think some of the mental leaps to connect this person to that person were too easy, or jumping to a certain conclusion was a little too convenient for the overall plot.
It was the perfect recipe of imperfect characters and ludicrous timing that kept me captivated throughout – and the ending is a master-stroke!
It's all fun until a jaded lover begins to talk about killing their unfaithful spouse.Lily's story will suck you in and have you cheering for the antagonist.
But most of the time, I was just intrigued by the story, with it's many twists and turns.
Just when I thought I knew what was gonna happen, the author would throw a monkey wrench.If you enjoyed Gone Girl, then I recommend this read.
If you're like me, and Did Not enjoy Gone Girl, then I Highly recommend this book!
I must admit near the beginning of THE KIND WORTH KILLING by PETER SWANSON had me feeling a little bit uncomfortable and questioning the motives of our devious, scheming, and manipulative main character, Lily.
I just didn't know if I could get passed the planning stages and the idea that it was okay to murder someone and Lily’s dispassionate comment that Miranda, seems like “the kind worth killing”, hence the title of the novel.
Even though I found myself questioning her motives, the way she justifies her actions and the interactions she had with the other characters had me rooting for her throughout this twisted and chilling tale.
3.5ISH Stars(4 Stars ~ For Writing/3ish Stars~ For overall story)This story was well written and highly addicting. It was a very fast paced read that doesn’t have much romance to speak of. I didn’t particularly love how things ended but did love the thrill of the ride.  "Truthfully, I don't think murder is necessarily as bad as people make it out to be. Everyone dies. What difference does it make if a few bad apples get pushed along a little sooner than God intended? And your wife, for example,
"Truthfully, I don't think murder is necessarily as bad as people make it out to be.
I see in some reviews this story is being compared to the likes of Gone Girl or Girl on the Train both books that I found to be a much more memorable reads.
Still this is the type of read that you can’t fully say what you think until you finish and see the big picture.
Looking at the big picture, I found it to be a decent story that didn't lag at all but wasn't anything I will remember in the years to come.

With that being said, the following is what still lingers in my memory when I try and think back on this book:1) It was a very addicting, quick read (like The couple next door and The girl on the train).
Perhaps it's because the word "girl" is in the title, which is quickly becoming the world's biggest eye roll.So that's saying something at least...For those of you who knew what (NEN) stood for without hesitation, I owe you lunch.Bottom line: This is a very enjoyable mystery that doesn't try too hard, it just is.Thank you for reading.Special Note: With all due respect to Shari Lapena and Paula Hawkins, they both wrote very good, enjoyable books.
Two strangers (Ted Severson and Lily Kintner) begin talking to each other in a lounge-bar at London’s Heathrow airport.
Ted mentions that he is married and that he thinks his wife Miranda is having an affair with the house contractor, Brad.
Ted says, in an offhand way, that he would like to kill his wife Miranda.
When they get on their flight (they are both flying to the US) they both seriously discuss killing Miranda, and Brad.
I had a hard time putting this book down.
This book also had some unexpected twists and turns in it.A very gripping suspense story.

I was shocked at the ending which was another twist!
If you haven't read this yet and love thrillers this one is a must!It all started when Faith stole Lily's boyfriend Eric from her and it never seems to stop.
The ending was the thrill and I couldn't believe it.
This book definitely meets the Wow factor!
Ooohh I loved the ride and think that you will too!I just loved this book.
I really love it when it happens like this.
It has to be an above over the top book for this to happen and this one definitely is one.
It will not be able to withstand the strain of this story.
I really don't care about that in this case because this novel entertained me from beginning to end.
It's a very quick read with surprising turns of events, and a delectable ending.
I fully realize the coincidences were raining down at a pretty good clip, but I liked the story so much it just didn't matter.
Eye rolling is good exercise!(view spoiler)[The idea of a veritable nest of psychos operating within shouting distance of each other, and working at crossed purposes, was absolutely delicious!
(hide spoiler)]
I would actually argue that The Kind Worth Killing is an even stronger and more page-turning book than The Girl On the Train (whose underwhelming ending left me sort of underwhelmed by the time I was done, especially after such a great build-up).
Along with its noir vibe, The Kind Worth Killing is also reminiscent of the old pulp fiction crime novels churned out on cheap paper during the first half of the 20th century -- where sex and violence are expected to go together like PB&J -- a marriage made in heaven if you will, or more accurately, hell.
"Could he possibly have secrets, as well?""And now I was realizing......" ( you think I'm going to tell you?)"The day was cold and gray"......
( always a reason of course)"Your not going to like what I'm going to say, but I need you to listen." ( yeah, damn you) "He slumped a little, looking like a dog that had just been swatted in the nose." ( it happens) "Tell me again what we're going to do." ( yeah, who doesn't love a little direction) "She was surprised, though...." ( question is...
But....This story also seemed like a similar story I read years ago.
gotta read what my friends think of this novel.
