https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1127830.The_Quiller_Memorandum
Adam Hall is the careful, meticulous, and patient author of the interesting character/spy, "Quiller".
Though he's a solidly well-built agent with a high pain threshold, able to withstand rigorous abuse--more than this, Quiller is simply so thoroughly seasoned by his past wartime experience that guns are rather superfluous to the real business of spying which--as Hall suggests--relies far more on observation, perspicacity, and insight into the psychology of your opponents.
That is certainly top talent, and the flick (though not a milestone) is one of the most evocative films featuring a re-built but uneasy, post-war Berlin.In general, Hall writes with both poise and grit in equal doses; a touch of 'spy vs spy' surreality, as well as a very noticeable atavism.
No gun.No codebook.
No suicide pills.No family.
No friends.
No name.No flashy cars.
No ejector seats.No hidden compartments.No gadgets.No remorse.
Next to Quiller, James Bond is a cautions old lady.Originally published in the mid-1960s, the story is a product of it's time ..
Berlin, The Wall, Cold War, still enough Nazis alive for war crimes trials to continue.It's not written like a spy novel, though.
"The afternoon is the halcyon, the calm coming between earnestness and drama." You don't get words like that in most 'literary' novels.
Yet here they are in a first-person spy tale.
The spy craft is top notch, the action well-written, and the plot twisty.
The Quiller series is highly regarded by the spy-fiction community, and as strange as it may seem – because I have had most of the books for years – I have never actually read them.
Quiller had been making enough waves – and scoring media attention – arresting neo-Nazis, that sooner or later the bad guys were going to come looking for him.Many readers may have seen the film The Quiller Memorandum, based on this book.
That’s The Berlin Memorandum – it has a bit of a cold start, but once you’re in, you don’t really want to get out.
The Quiller Memorandum is the first of nineteen Quiller spy novels written by Elleston Trevor under the pseudonym Adam Hall; Trevor was remarkably prolific, writing 58 other novels under other names (including his  Flight of the Phoenix), a number of children’s books, stage plays and short stories.
In spite of all these talents, Quiller doesn’t look forward to a new mission—he hangs back and has to be manipulated into it; but once in, he is totally committed.
On Naziism, the fat lady hasn’t sung yet and Quiller is tasked to make her squeal.The bad guys are organized into a program called Phoenix, an apt name indeed as they work to restore the good old Germany.
The setting is the most shadowy "post WWII Berlin" with the master players lined up against each other - The Brits and The Nazi Heirs.This book introduced Quiller and it's a treat.
What took my breath away was the view of the world through the mind of a master spy.
Quiller takes us into this amazing journey where we get to see how he collects, collates and transmits messages; how he plays various scenarios to improvise, adapt and survive; how he endures interrogations and pressure tactics and lastly, how he plays the mind games like a true master.This is definitely an OUTSTANDING spy novel that should be in the collection of the "espionage fan".
A spy thriller for chess players. A few missteps toward the end so that a few of the twists felt thin and not solidly set up, but overall very nicely plotted and written. I liked that the main character was ornery and tired and smart and still made mistakes and tried to see all possible outcomes at once and fought more against jumping to conclusions and staying alert and clear-headed than he did directly against the villains themselves. I can see where some might find it more exhausting than anything else, though--he does get tired :)
I read a few of these many years ago when they first came out. I recently found and purchased all 19 of the series in hardback and read them serially. The novels are esoteric thrillers, very cerebral and highly recommended.
You are the hero of an extraordinary novel which shows how a spy works, how messages are coded and decoded, how contacts are made, how a man reacts under the influence of truth drugs-and which traces the story of a vastly complex, entertaining, convincing, and sinister plot.In the past year or two I have tried, not very successfully, I admit to expand my reading scope to include a whole range of writers that I wouldn’t normally find nestled under the “crime fiction” umbrella.
Hall/Trevor wrote a series of 19 books about Quiller – a British agent; the first of which was published in 1965, the last in 1996.This first in the series was the recipient of the prestigious Edgar Award in 1966, which was the same year a film adaptation was released starring Alec Guinness.
If you've only seen the somewhat tepid 1966 film starring George Segal which is based on this classic post-WWII espionage novel, don't let it stop you from reading the original.
While the rest of the cast (Alec Guinness, Max Von Sydow and George Sanders) are good and Harold Pinter tries hard to turn a very internal story into the visual medium, George Segal is totally miscast as Quiller.
The book itself sets a standard for the psychological spy thriller as an agent (code-named Quiller) plays a suspense-filled cat-and-mouse game with the head of a neo-Nazi group in post-war Berlin.
As classic as it gets.
Quiller is a British agent working in Germany about fifteen to twenty years after the end of the second world war.
Not that I know anything about being a spy, but it feels rather real in the detail he goes in to about how to deal with this or that situation, working out people's motivations, solving ciphers etc.He's been on a 6 month mission tracking down Nazi war criminals hiding in plain sight in German society, and helping the Z polizei (a department of the German police focused on arresting said war criminals) get these people into custody.
Even in the war, Quiller was a British agent working in Germany, posing as a guard at a concentration camp and helping some Jews to escape.
Adam Hall (one of Elleston Trevor' many pseudonyms) wrote many classic spy stories, and this one is considered one of his best.
Quiller is a secret agent, a spy, and in this early work he has been assigned to track down a neo-Nazi organization (this was written in the sixties) called Phoenix that is directed by Heinrich Zossen.
He also refuses to carry a gun, claiming that not having one gives him a substantial psychological edge over his enemies.
" you have the advantage unarmed providing the enemy knows that you are....Knowing you have no gun they' not afraid of you.
The first of Adam Hall’s Quiller novels is a tough espionage thriller set in mid-60s Berlin.
Quiller, a British agent working for a branch of British Intelligence called The Bureau, is tracking down Nazi war criminals (twenty years before he’d posed as a concentration camp guard and helped Jews escape the gas chambers) and is on the point of a well earned rest in London when he’s contacted by a man called Pol and set on the trail of an old enemy - Obergruppenfuhrer Heinrich Zossen.
What follows is a lesson in tradecraft by a lone agent working the streets of Berlin, tracking a neo-Nazi organisation called Phönix.
Quiller has spent the post WWII tracking down Nazis to be tried by the post War tribunals.
During the war, Hall had infiltrated the Nazis, working in concentration camps to save as many Jews as possible.
Zossen ran one of these camps.This begins an interesting spy story with excellent explanations of spy craft, how spies communicate with their bosses, how to fight interrogation, etc.
The picture of post-War Germany is also interesting, the trials of Nazis, the Nazis still hidden in clear sight and what they are plotting to return to power, etc.
Interesting spy story, well worth trying.
aka: The Quiller Memorandum...
the first in a series of 19 Quiller books.
The Quiller Memorandum is detail rich on what it means to be a (fictional) spy.
This is all just to say that Quiller is a professional spy who applies all of his tricks and training against the forces of evil.
The Quiller Memorandum, and I suspect the rest of the series, is grounded in serious spying...spies on the ground, doing the work of spies.
The Quiller Memorandum was published during the cold war at a time when film and literature were either having fun with the world of espionage (James Bond) or taking it quite seriously (The Spy who came in from the Cold).
Like the best of them Quiller is well written; the language is gritty, cold and engaging.
Quiller is an interesting guy; he has a conscience but can perform as if he doesn't.
My only quibble is that Quiller really is a loner.
It rests on Quiller's shoulders to carry the novel.
A crisply written story that captured my attention from beginning to end. I was really surprised, because I don't usually like books written during the 50s or 60s. The protagonist, Quiller, is not a superhuman, like the James Bond types, nor does he have a satchel full of fancy electronic tricks up his sleeve. That makes the story much more believable, and Adam Hall's writing style kept me engaged. I read it in two evenings.Cliff Scovellwww.prison-earth.com
I am listening to this on my ipodYour name is Quiller. You are the hero of an extraordinary novel that shows how a spy works, how messages are coded and decoded, how contacts are made, how a man reacts under the influence of truth drugs, and that traces the story of a vastly complex, entertaining, convincing, and sinister plot.This was an entertaining and interesting storyline and I enjoyed it very much.
This is an espionage series that started in the '60's and ran through the '90's. The Wall Street Journal said it was one of the best espionage/spy series of all time. This was the first book, and I liked it. The book is more focused on thinking as a spy and I found it to be very realistic. I enjoyed the book.
I read on a spy genre blog that Adam Hall was the best. I agree. This book was amazing. Fast, tight, and spiced with a nice twist/reversal at the end. The prose is outstanding, although a bit unique and often tightly clipped. His spycraft is well done and the cliffhangers keep you turning pages. Loved it.
A brisk and suspenseful tale of espionage and revenge in post-World War II Berlin. Almost as emotionally involving as John Le Carre's *The Spy Who Came In From The Cold*, with intrigue and action that's right up there with Frederick Forsyth's best stuff.
This spy novel about neo-Nazis 1960's Berlin seemed dated and a little stilted to me. But good enough to hold my interest till the end.
Definitely dated, but still a fun read.
This 1965 novel started as a subtle and interesting story of an English agent investigating neo-Nazis in Berlin but it eventually became excessively drawn out and uninspired, trying for a Spy Who Came in from the Cold-type effect which it couldn’t pull off. Quiller is a typical 1960s Callan-style spy working as a lone-wolf and gradually uncovering a plot by the German army to restore Nazism through encountering an attractive female who may be a defector from the organisation. Unfortunately it’s just too dated.
Good, albeit a bit tiresome in places, spy thriller from the mid-60s. Quiller was an anti-Bond, no women, no guns, no humour, not enough booze, who prefers to work alone with no back-up. Told in the first person, where this novel gets a bit plodding is where Quiller's mental deduction (thus narration) gets repetitive. But the book (and series) has potential for improvement. It's funny how a lot of these Anti-Bonds secret agents/ assassins don't use guns. What was with that?
Surely the greatest resistance to torture scene apart from Altered Carbon. Offbeat and eccentric book with a bit too many twists which seemed a bit convoluted. Plot which threatened to really scale heights before getting lost in its own cleverness. Still overall a solid read and the start of what will hopefully be an interesting series.
My first audible book. Loved it! Set in 1960's Europe where Quiller is hunted by and hunting Nazis. Quiller is an experience expert spy that let's you know what he is doing and his thinking in fascinating and delightful detail. Well written. The audible narration was spot on. The written electronic version was not available so I tried the audible.. Glad I did.
Not a great thriller, like Quillers' 2, 3, and 4. The beginning in a theater box sticks the novel in first gear for 20 pages. The neo-Nazis reborn plot is for the retrospective reader simply tiresome.
Really good plotting and pacing (as befits its reputation), but more than a bit wooden.
old school spy drama situated in Berlin as Nazis (back when they were the enemy) and the Communists (ditto) were plotting an attack on the US forces in Berlin. Ah, the good old days.
An original work in the crowded world of spy thrillers. The story is intricate, the characters motivations are believable and the eponymous Quiller is as cold and ruthless as they come.
