https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885110.Archimedes_and_the_Door_of_Science
O nouă etapă în aflarea tainelor celor mai importanți oameni de știință ai omenirii, cartea lui Jeanne Bendick se ocupă de matematicianul, fizicianul, inventatorul Arhimede, grec din Siracusa, Sicilia. Volumul se ocupă și de viața lui, dar ”grosul” este dat de nenumăratele sale teorii și aplicațiile acestora în practică, mai ales în domeniile pe care le utilizăm și noi, după 2000 de ani, la fel de mult: matematica, astronomia, fizica. Aflăm multe lucruri despre pârghii, cerc, numere, sferă sau cilindru, dar și despre felul în care mașinăriile lui au fost utilizate în războaie. Informații multe, dar și ilustrații foarte potrivite.
My 6th grader is reading this this term, it’s a very simple book about most of Archimedes’ theories and discoveries and was actually pretty interesting. It also includes several simple experiments you can do to demonstrate some of his discoveries. AmblesideOnline Year 6.
My oldest enjoyed this and made science journal entries along with her readings.
Archimedes and Door of Science is a well-written biography that brought forth the fascinating mind of Archimedes firmly planted in his culture and time period.
This book was a delight to read, I thoroughly enjoyed Jeanne Bendick's style and ease of communicating deep or difficult concepts.
The amazing discoveries and advancements in Mathematics and science were the highlight of the book for me, and I am very interested in reading more about Archimedes.
I also thought the pictures and diagrams added a great value to the book.
We spent six weeks reading this during our Morning Time. The book has a few parts that are strangely written and there were a couple moments where even I couldn't follow what was being said, so I just skipped over those couple of sentences. Overall though, we learned quite a bit about Archimedes and I would definitely recommend this as a read aloud!
Delightfully readable introduction to Archimedes, his life and discoveries in science and mathematics, for upper elementary. Contains a few easy experiments to reinforce. So excited to share this with my kids!
Read aloud to my children. Very well written book for children. The explanations and examples are wonderful for helping to understand the concepts. We even experimented with some of the ideas. Archimedes was such an interesting man!! We enjoyed reading this.
Really enjoyed reading this book with my children. Basic enough to understand with lots of diagrams for visual learners, interesting information and told like a great story!
I found this book interesting at first and then my interest died off. I don't know why. I guess I din't like the subject, or the format. The pictures were excellent, though.
I got this one for the kids and really enjoyed reading it myself. :)
Great bookThis is a great book, we used it as part of sixth grade science/history. My child loved it and we both learned so much.
i liked it
AWESOME
The book Archimedes: The Door of Science by Jeanne Bendick was a rather colorless novel.
It mostly contained information about Archimedes' life, lifestyle and inventions.
I found it interesting that after telling of an invention or equation, it would explain the math and the science involved in said invention.
Each section would talk about the inventions concerning the subject.
This made it a bit more of a math or science textbook than a biography though.
It contained some information about how the Greeks ended up using his inventions during wars, or just for peaceful uses.
It was difficult to tell whether the book was a schoolbook or a biography.
The accomplishments of Archimedes made him one of the most important founders of science.
This captivating book tells the story of Archimedes life AND gives vivid imagery to his accomplishments through simple, effective text and delightful illustrations.
From my 3rd grader to my 10th grader, they all eagerly finished the book with enthusiastic comprehension.
Of course, the "Eureka" story stood out to all, but other concepts such as levers and water displacement were covered in a way that brought clarity to those scientific principles.
So this book is not about one man, but a plethora of important scientific observations.
Miss 13 read it for her homeschool studies of ancient Greece, and she found it boring, probably because of the many discussions of the significance of Archimedes.
Even though this book is technically at a grade 5 reading level, the content, well-understood, can take one beyond high school level.Highly recommended for studies of ancient Greece, math, physics, and science.
It is a bit much for kids in grade 5, and older teens will want to skip the simplistic parts, but it is one of those books that each young person should read at least once or twice, and that adults will enjoy as well.
Mark read this last week and couldn't put it down!!!!
I had to give up a half a bottle of rubbing alchohol so he could experiment with density of liquids.
Mark was completely taken in by Archimedes!
It's so enjoyable to see your son make the connection that Archimedes, Erastosthenes, and Aesop were contemporaries!
Mark loved reading about and experimenting with the great engineering ideas the Greeks like Archimedes offered us.
I think it struck him that these really, really old guys had ideas that are very contemporary!
Make sure you have an extra bottle of rubbing alchohol on hand!
We take for granted so many mathematical discoveries and scientific successes of the past; yes, there continues to be an almost exponential amount of discovery today in fields such as astronomy and physics, but they are using Archimedes trigonometry and adding upon the knowledge base of earlier ages.
There are so many wonderful projects to do with your children (or by yourself!) presented in this book such as: drawing geometric shapes in the sand, making levers and pulleys, making a simple hydrometer, and talking about planes and solid figures.
I feel so inspired to make our study of math and science more enriching this year!
I love these Living History Library books and Jeanne Benedick has a wonderful way of introducing great people in history and what they did/discovered on a child's level without truly "dumbing" anything down.
These books should be a part of any child's library, and for sure any homeschoolers' library.
My kid's eyes have been opened to so many ideas because of this book.
These aren't things that would be in her vocabulary without me reading this book out loud to her this month.
This was really a fantastic overview of Archimedes' contributions to science and math.
Easy to read and understand, quirky (in a good way) illustrations.
Well-indexed.
Highly recommended for kids and adults as an introduction to mechanics, geometry, hydrostatics and conics.I'm reading another book about Archimedes, this one an historical fiction novel.
The contrast between how Archimedes is portrayed as a personality is striking.
It helped me realize we really don't know much about him at all; much of what we suppose is through the lens of Ancient Greek culture.
This was in my history curriculum one year, and I remember wondering WHY.
It is a good book, there is no doubt about that.
It is reasonably well written, there is no doubt about that.But my problem is that I was given it to read for the purpose of learning from it.
Now, I already knew everything in this book, and it was written to the audience of primary school children.So I got a tad frustrated at this book.
I just wish that I had discovered the book at an earlier age when I was ready to appreciate it.
Archimedes opened doors for studies in math and science, and this book can open those same doors in your child's mind (or your students' minds).Bendick writes about Archimedes, his life, and various chapters are dedicated to ideas he had and inventions he made.
Each of these chapters are good openers for various studies in your classroom (or at home).
The amazing thing was that so much of what he learned and discovered had to be rediscovered many years later because his teachings and writings had been lost.
(maybe misplaced, since he is credited with these things later.Good for fourth grade up.
My daughter read Archimedes and the Door of Science several years ago for school, and remembers being thoroughly bored with it. I warned her not to tell her brothers that, however, when I started reading it to them this week to go along with our study of Ancient History. They found parts of it quite interesting, and I found a lot of it fascinating.Did you know that an oar is a machine? It is a lever, and all levers are a form of machine! In fact...Read my full review here.
I found this book very interesting. It's amazing to think about the things we take for granted today -- things that ancient mathematicians and scientists figured out and had to prove. It's amazing what they could do through observation, experiments, and geometry. For example, in 300 BC, they had already figured out the Earth's circumference, give or take 100 miles. Wow. I like how the book goes through HOW Archimedes thought and figured things out, instead of just telling us he did it. What a great mind!
Excellent homeschool (and all who love learning) book!
Jeanne Bendick brings Archimedes and his many achievements to life.
The text doesn't always just grab you, but there is a genuine enthusiasm for how Archimedes used his gifts to make a lasting impact in the world.
Readable for young folks, with enough detail and academic content for the rest of us.
Bet you didn't know that it was Archimedes who used mathematical reasoning to prove that numbers are infinite.
Or that he invented a machine using levers that moved a huge ship on land by easily turning a small handle.
4.5 stars reallyExcellent introduction to Archimedes, the history of the time period, and the many scientific inventions/discoveries/theories of this man. Even for kids who don't have a physics background, the explanations and illustrations are fairly easy to follow. But for kids who are already interested in physical science concepts, this will be an especially interesting biography. Easy enough to read aloud (provided you can pronounce Greek names), but the drawings will necessitate a small audience or the ability to pass the book around.
I picked up this book again and began reading it aloud to Brigham.
It kept his interest, and now the younger children are listening in.
Lisa even hollered from the next room, "I'm still listening," when I noticed no one was in the room I was reading in anymore.
I guess I'll continue...
they want more.
=) This one is a keeper.
Not only does it teach about Archimedes and his science and math discoveries, but it also tells of the history of Ancient Greece and what good thinkers they were.
I am enjoying learning these facts, and so are my kids!
This was a good book, not exactly one that I couldn't put down, but good for the purpose for which it was written. It is part biography, part science, part history. Admittedly, it is incredible to think of all the things that people of that time period didn't know that we take for granted in modern times. So perhaps that's the best part of this book-- to realize how much we owe the gifted and inquisitive people of long ago, like Archimedes.
This is an interesting book about Archimedes, but in some areas it provides so much detail that you wonder which part is actually known and which is just being fleshed out with guesses and other knowledge about that time period. It’s written “down” a bit – probably to younger elementary, although it’s not a picture book. It does provide some fascinating information on the works of Archimedes.
SO I read this when I was in 4th grade and I completely loved it!! The pictures were awesome and the explanations of Archimedes' science contributions were really easy to understand. I think I mostly liked it because I learned so much from it. Plus it made me feel like a complete nerd. Great book!
