https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121120.Petals_of_Blood
No matter how you looked at it, it gave you the impression of a flow of blood.To find oneself lost within an arresting read of love, sex, betrayal, oppression, censorship, and economic strife, while also courted by narrative strength of style, voice and reflection, is a reason to love a piece of art.
Three men—Abdulla, Munira, and Karega—are linked to this poised prostitute, a victim who chooses to use rather than be used again, and each man like her, has escaped a past.
Like his post-colonial peers Soyinka and Achebe, wa Thiong’o was arrested in 1977 by the Kenyan government when this novel was first published.
The novel can be read on many levels: an indictment of Western imperialism, including through Christianity; an anxious statement of concern over the political and economic path taken by Kenya at the time; an exploration of the wide gap between the faux authenticity of Kenya's past as depicted in tourism and the richness of Kenya's true history, as shown in oral history and myth.
I’ve been working on adding to my shelves books from parts of the world that confound me, parts of the world that I don’t understand - regions inhabited by the billions in individual humans who have amazing stories and histories and mythologies and frustrations and joys to share which have no relation to my own or which, by my sheltered ignorance,are hidden from my small world.To this end I am glad that this is not the first of Ngugi’s books I have read, and I hope that it isn’t the only book by him that you will read (because I do think you should read this book).
Ngũgĩ wa Thiong'o (pronunciation - if you want to pick one name, Ngũgĩ is correct) was a disciple of Chinua Achebe's, until they had a violent falling out over philosophy: Ngũgĩ decided to stop writing in English, switching to his native Kenyan language of Gikuyu.
1977's Petals of Blood was Ngũgĩ's final English work.It's a deep and intense read.
Characters turn out to be connected in surprisingly intimate ways.
Ngũgĩ is depressed:Imaginative literature [of Africa] was not much different: the authors described the conditions correctly: they seemed able to reflect accurately the contemporary situation of fear, oppressions and deprivation: but thereafter they led him down the paths of pessimism, obscurity and mysticism: was there no way out except cynicism?
The plot unravels with an ongoing investigation of the triple murder of three socially eminent men Kimeria , Chui and Mzigo .
The investigation leads us to a journey into the past ; the past of not just the prime accused Karera and Munira but also the victims Kimeria , Chui , Mzigo and the past of Africa itself.
Thiong'O deftly analyses different themes through the interior monologues of the different characters.Through Wanja he explores the dubiousness of morality , through Munira he denounces the hypocrisy of religion, through Karera he chides the shallowness of a British-modeled education system , through Abdullah he exposes the futility and disillusionment of war.
A very symbolic, yet simultaneously open critique of colonialism and the system it set in place in Kenya. It clearly outlines the path of exploitation and corruption that has so defined Kenyan politics. This is a must read for anyone coming to visit Kenya or interested in African culture and literature. It is no surprise this book was so contentious and that Ngugi was later jailed...
The most telling thing I can say about this book is that I was within 20 pages of the end and I was hungry so I got up to make myself a sandwich, and didn't finish the book until later that night.The pace of this book is slow.
I see the four main characters as symbols of the four post-colonial African peasant archetypes.
The interesting thing about the four main characters is that you can see them evolve into their archetypes over time, and how their relationships with each other develop and fall apart.
It was too easy to put aside for months at a time.
I expect he'll get the Nobel Prize sooner or later.
In this book, what starts (and ends) as a murder mystery becomes a profound look at what happened to Kenya post-independence, and to Kenyan people.
This is not an easy read for people expecting a quick mystery with stereotypic characters, but by the time your done, you'll have insight into complex characters not of our culture and what shaped them.
Best book I've read in several years, even though it took me a while to get into it - largely because it's not a book about Kenya by a westerner written for westerners; it's written for Kenyans by their greatest author.
Oh good grief I am DNFing this - I think that is the correct abbreviation here on Goodreads. It's boring, although I am sure very, very educational.
The story revolves around four main characters: Munira, Abdulla, Karega, and Wanja all of whom meet in Ilmorog, and find themselves caught up in the failed promises of post independence in Kenya.
Then there is Wanja, a beautiful woman who is at the center of it all, she returns home to start over and is soon the attraction of the town, but with time Munira finds that she is not just an attraction in Ilmorog but also in the city from Lawyers to Member of Parliaments.
The four are and odd bunch; Godfrey Munira the son of a wealthy Nairobi landowner who comes 12 years earlier to the rural village of Ilmarog from where people are escaping to teach in the empty primary school, Abdullah a disabled bar owner who we learn has been a freedom fighter in the Mau mau uprising, Karega a young idealist who becomes the assistant teacher but has a sad past with Munira's favourite sister who committed suicide, and Wanja a barmaid/ prostitute who has been the victim of sexual exploitation by one of the three murdered men.
This is one of the first Ngugi books I read and I have to admit I enjoyed his earlier work about the Mau Mau rebellion more as I was reading it.
However, looking back I see the brilliance of Petals of Blood.
This work takes incredible courage.
I was visiting Kenya when he first came back after decades of exile and he was attacked by thugs.
To take on the corrupt post-independence regime and not just create a mythology about the heroes of independence is what makes Ngugi a master.
Think of it as "Grapes of Wrath" set in Kenya. It's a highly political novel, chastising imperialism, capitalism, and corruption in Kenya, written by an author with Marxist leanings. Nevertheless, the interweaving of four people's stories leaves room for different perspectives, and the novel never descends to the level of a manifesto. I couldn't stop comparing Petals of Blood to Grapes of Wrath though, and I must plainly say that Steinbeck, taking more time to unfold a narrower story, delivers peasants' plight under capitalism much more powerful and harrowing than does Ngugi.
Masterpiece. He shows the slow encroachment of a whole range of forces from capitalism to 'modernity' post-independence in Kenya and does it while implicitly critiquing almost every ideological position that can be taken in such a context.
This was a tough read. Very wordy.
This distance from the imperial captialist exploitation underlying the forces that structure the social environments of these novels is what allows them to be mostly comedies.
I read Petals of Blood as a novel having a similar plot structure, with characters having relationship to each other mediated in large part by their independent histories and relationships with institutions and capital.
(Of course, in Petals of Blood the action takes place over a much longer period, a decade or so, but idk right now if that's important for this understanding?) Petals of Blood has many moments of irony and intrigue that could be in a Pynchon novel but you would have to be incredibly hard-hearted to call it a comedy, which is directly related to the proximity of the action of the novel to the most brutal locations of class struggle.
The author skips years and then has his four main characters make long speeches about what happened in the interim.
The choices the author makes to tell this story make it unnecessarily complex.Much of the novel is stream-of-consciousness about Kenya and Kenyan history, reflected through the language and worldview of the four main characters.
Like a good American beat novel, there's a long road trip (with a donkey and a cart, not a car) and a prolonged scene with hallucinogens and some serious life decisions made after ingestion of those hallucinogens.
رواية مملة جدا لم استطع انهائها حيث الكاتب كاره للرأسمالية ومحب للاشتراكية وكاره لكل ما هو أبيض وعاشق لكل ما هو أسودبالإضافة إلى أن الكاتب لديه القدرة أن يعيد ويزيد في نفس الكلام عن الحلم الافريقي والرجل الأبيض البغيض وأتباعهم من الخونة الأفارقة الذين باعوا أنفسهم من أجل السلطة
For the journey had presented each with a set of questions for which there were no ready answers; had, because of what they had seen and experienced, thrown up challenges that could neither be forgotten nor put on one side, for they touched on things deep in the psyche, in their separate conceptions of what it meant to be human, a man, alive and free." (p 197)--When in a dream, one character, a teacher, meets his deceased older brother, a freedom fighter: "Karega shouts behind him: 'I want to follow you!
This book was on my shelf for a long time, one of those 'should reads' that I wasn't very inspired to pick up.
Finally, I had nothing else at home to read, and I picked it up.
It still felt like a 'should read' in the beginning, and I found the novel slow going, only reading a few pages a night.
As it became for me less the story of individual characters and more the story of the village/town, with the characters becoming different elements of the town, of so many small towns in so many countries, I adapted to the rhythm and begin really enjoying the read.
The prose is generally flavourless, if technically sound, but the descriptions of a Kenya struggling for an identity in the wake of independence are quite evocative.As a historical and cultural document, Petals of Blood is undoubtedly important, but I can't recommend it on any other grounds.
As a novel, it is boring, under-conceived, and directionless, and possesses neither the stylistic strength nor the depth of character necessary to overcome those faults.
Had I been less neurotic (i.e. able to stop reading anything before the end), I would never have finished reading this book; having done so, I can't say that I got anything from it that a chapter from a history book on post-independence Kenya wouldn't have more succinctly provided.
A screed against post-colonial indigenous capitalism in Kenya tucked into a character-driven story about personal relationships to power and history.
This book allows the author a few moments of utopian soapboxing and revolutionary memorializing, but mostly he buries the politics under the mundane, confusing, frustrating struggle for survival, fulfillment, and love, and each character's inability to place oneself within (or against) the juggernaut of neoliberal "New Kenya".
There is gender critique and contested sexual power but this is not a love story.
[Read for the Great African Reads book club]
There is obviously a main character in the book like in others but novel is more about socio and political challenges in post-independence Kenya –the main protagonist here is the people and government.
But I bet all Africans who lived post-independence in their own countries will find resonance.I have also learnt that after the publication of the book in late 70’s and plays that were subsequently written by this giant of African literature.
Ngugi was arrested and sent to jail by the government of Kenya.
After reading this book the words of Lord Halifax came true.
3.5 - 4 A book laden with mysteries of the past which need discovering, and several different social aspects which emerged in independent Kenya. The reader explores the primarily rural old Ilmorog as it progresses and develops, and watches how people either eat or are eaten.Rather slow at times but everything fits neatly together in the end, so that the author's message is delivered effectively to the reader. While the African words, phrases and songs put the reader in the right Kenyan atmosphere, however for the people who are unable to understand the language, it's going to be very frustrating
This book really touched my heart. Ngugi wa Thiong'O truly understands Kenya's Neo-colonism era and depicts the reality of ordinary Kenyan people's life during that period. Furthermore, he also mentions the legacy of the British colonialism as well as the difficulties and consequences of modernization. Overall, the hardships that ordinary Kenyan people went through in creating 'New Kenya' were mentioned throughout the book. It shattered my old conception of 'Lion King' Kenya and allowed me to see the reality and the cruelity of the new, capitalistic Kenya.
This is a disturbing novel with substantial violence in Kenya, and deals with issues of brutal neo-colonization. Not for the faint-hearted. Not exactly an easy, thrilling book. A moderately difficult read, because it has numerous underlying themes, interrogating Western values and our own notions of civilization and law-enforcement.
Very interesting--riveting in places, but my eyes glazed over in other places. If a book combines a socio-political message with a fiction plot, I prefer the fiction plot to be straightforward, otherwise it can turn out like this one, with too many flashbacks to too many different events. Perhaps just not the right book at the right time.
Great twist on betrayal, greed, love and hope.Wouldn't mind reading it again.
It is, in fact, a key component to contemporary Kenya and indeed, modern civilization, as described here:“We are all prostitutes, for in a world of grab and take, in a world built on a structure of inequality and injustice, in a world where some can eat while others can only toil, some can send their children to schools and others cannot, in a world where a prince, a monarch, a businessman can sit on billions while people starve or hit their heads against church walls for divine deliverance from hunger, yes, in a world where a man who has never set foot on this land can sit in a New York or London office and determine what I shall eat, read, think, do, only because he sits on a heap of billions taken from the world’s poor, in such a world, we are all prostituted” (240).It is in part this idea that is symbolized by the images of a flower with petals of blood, of flowering, and of blooming , that are used consistently throughout the book, and give the book its title.
The recollections and reflections of Munira the evangelical schoolteacher form the basis of the narrative: he tells the story of Abdulla – a one-legged former freedom fighter turned merchant now reduced to beggary; Kagera the promising student turned activist-revolutionary; and Wanja, a woman victimised because of her sexuality who then exploits it herself to become a prostitute and a hard-hearted brothel madam.1001 Books has this to say:In differing ways [these four characters] embody the difficulties of resisting the decadence, corruption and self-aggrandisement at the core of the new political regimes.
