https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229585.A_Cool_Million_and_The_Dream_Life_of_Balso_Snell
And to think that this yellowing Avon paperback languished in my parents’ unused basement sauna for at least 10 years, only to be rescued by me during the holidays; which is one of the few heartwarming stories in these “tough economic times”, as I’ve been reduced to scrounging around for free books anywhere I can, and if they’re set in the depression so much the better.The back cover copy says that “A Cool Million dismantles, piece by piece, its hero and the Horatio Alger myth”.
A Cool Million :The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin/Nathanael Westيك ميليون جرينگي يا (اوراق كردن لميوئ
Certainly lacking in contrast, both of these works percolate in the fears and insecurities of not only a nation unsure of regaining its footing, there is something fundamental in his horror, Edmund Wilson was correct, West was our Kafka.
Not to spoil anything, but the novel recounts the said Mr. Snell's journey into the anus and up the colon and beyond of the Trojan Horse (of yore) and his encounters with various personages along the "journey".
Critics have read all manner of ridiculous and strained interpretations into this, the weakest of West's writings, which interpretations are as much a load of road apples as are absent in the Horse.
There's some humor here, but Mr. Ed was funnier.Footnote: The "writer's bio" on Goodreads for Nathaniel West contains this statement: "At Brown University in New York, he befriended writer and humourist S.
I divide his novels into the absurd (these 2) & the 'realistic' ("Miss Lonelyhearts" & "The Day of the Locust") but the delineation is tenuous.
This was my favorite, probably b/c it was the most absurd.
"A Cool Million" is West's parody of Horatio Alger stories - you know the ones: the newspaper boy works hard & thru dedication & the reward system of capitalism becomes a successful millionaire businessman.
The subtitle of "A Cool Million" is "The Dismantling of Lemuel Pitkin" & the hero pursues fame & fortune w/ Alger-like naivity, failing every step of the way & gradually losing body parts in the process.
3.5 Stars. Would have been 4, if this edition didn’t include The Dream Life of Balso Snell. A Cool Million is definitely the thing to pay attention to here. West is one of the only writers who seems to have groked the grotesqueries of American life and served them up in all their stomach churning glory.
I feel that A Cool Million deserves more readers. An outrageous lampooning of the American dream and a picaresque which manages to out-brutalize Lazarillo de Tormes. The Dream Life of Balso Snell was a bit of a mess, not really worth my time.
He finally realizes what they all have in common:"The wooden horse, Balso realized as he walked on, was inhabited solely by writers in search of an audience."Kind of like my Twitter feed :-DAs soon as Balso reaches that realization, he makes a resolution:"H]e was determined not to be tricked into listening to another story.
Yet interestingly, the book ends not by Balso writing/telling a story .
suggesting that for West, the resolution of Balso the poet's dilemma was not to write, but something else entirely .
"A Cool Million" is to literature what Preston Sturges' "Miracle at Morgan's Creek" was to cinema: a cleverly satirical jab at society that uses conventional narrative forms as a means of criticism and creativity...and unstoppable laughter.
West's "Million" is like a cinema serial gone completely awry...as though the naive heros and heroines of those cliffhanger episodes were dragged through the worst that contemporary life had to offer.
As the hero encounters one desperate failed writer (and lover, and human being) after another, one can't help but be disturbed by West's rampant nihilism.
Humor is eclipsed by his uniquely jaded psychosis....I can't figure what it all means.
Nathanael West wrote two of my favorite 20th Century American novels: Miss Lonelyhearts and Day of the Locust.
I didn't realize (until a few months ago) that he'd also written two other novels: The Dream Life of Balso Snell and A Cool Million.
These novels aren't nearly as good as his others and aren't really worth reading, unless you are a student of American Literature or a completist.Of the two in this collection, A Cool Million does have some entertaining moments, but gets so ridiculous that I had to force myself to finish it.
West has a unique voice and vision, I read his "collected works" sometime back and these were the two stories that stood out from that collection, even thought they aren't hailed as his best pieces.
Dream Life of Balso Snell is simply bizarre and weird and trippy, never read anything quite like it.
Again, this story is hauntingly ahead of it's time and captures the current mood and mindset of this election campaign to a tee.
West was almost a century ahead of his time, have to get his other books too and reread them with fresh eyes.
Balso was fun but weird. A Cool Million was exactly as advertised, a very (very) sarcastic jab at Horatio Alger stories. Both were good. Day of the Locust/Miss Lonelyhearts are clearly the high points in his criminally short career. I always forget how funny West is and more so, how modern his humor feels. His sarcasm and satire still feel razor sharp today. I really wish we could have gotten one more novel out of him. Reading his earlier work has only reinforced my feeling that he was one novel away from "great american novel" levels of quality.
One of Hunter Thompson's favorites, and thanks to the Doctor for listing it. Stunningly cynical, this dark little gem decapitates the Horatio Alger myth and dumps a load down its throat. In its own evil way, "A Cool Million" sheds more light on the American Dream - our most cherished national delusion - than a hundred thousand pages of Ayn Rand.
Narratorial intrusions, shifts of person and register (pastiches of Fyodor Dostoevsky, Arthur Rimbaud, and William Shakespeare in the latter work), and different literary forms—the letter, the drama, the narrative, the poem. The resonance with Thomas Pynchon’s work is evident—verbal excesses, fantasies, satiric exaggerations.
Haven't read A Cool Million yet, although I plan to.Read Dream Life over the course of a couple drunken train rides back from the city, and maybe it's not such a great book to read when you're not sober. Intentionally, kind of over-the-top bizarre in a way that isn't so satisfying, as I never felt like there was much of a payoff.
Some moments of brilliance, but there's a reason why most people talk about Miss Lonelyhearts and The Day of the Locust as his masterworks.The Dream Life of Balso Snell, however, makes me wonder if John Barth or any of the other slightly wacky metafiction folks held it as an influence, especially since it was written all the way back in 1931.
Did West assume his readers were too simple to understand any degree of subtlety or was he too simple to write with one? At least it was a quick read. I didn't mind either tale, and did find humor in several parts, but thought there wasn't as much substance behind the too-obvious satire as I had hoped to uncover.
The thing with Nathanael West is that his concepts are more interesting than his prose style. Yes, he's funny, but he's also straightforward and dry, in my opinion. So as a grouping of novels, yes, he's a terrific satirist. But taken individually, the novels are...meh.
Not as resonant as A Day of the Locusts, but certainly worth the time it takes to read these novellas. A Cool Million just gets drearier and drearier. I laughed a lot. Strange that West isn't required reading.
Nathanael West changed my life in college. My professor William Melvin Kelley suggested I read him and everything about West's writing blows me away. I wish I could write like him. Please read these two novels. West deserves to be heard.
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/14346123
The. Worst. Just total ugh and disgusting on multiple levels. For a very particular sense of humor that I'm very thankful not to have.
What fun!
chock full o' 19th century russian lit references and bizarro sentences that feel just right
Incredible, a must-read.
What I learned from this book: try as you may, brave soldier, you will be shot.
Have only read A Cool Million. Reminds me of Candide, but very American.
The Dream Life of Balso Snell is brilliant!Cool Million was also really enjoyable but not quite as hilarious.Both are heavily satirical and ironic. West is (as always) a brilliant writer
Read them again. Still great.
A bit sophmoric and heavy handed when compared with Day of the Locust and Miss Lonelyhearts, but then what isn't?
