https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860183.The_Road_to_Oxiana
Dawn is the time to see it, to look up at the Six Columns, when peach-gold and blue air shine with equal radiance, and even the empty bases that uphold no columns have a living, sunblest identity against the violet deeps of the firmament.
I did develop a literary intimacy with Byron while reading this book and could think of myself as waiting anxiously for his next letter describing the wonders of what he has seen.
I know I have many friends who have read Proust in the last year, as have I, so it was a special treat when he makes mention of the influence Proust is having on his writing.
It contains a great many references to Persian and some Afghan antiquities, many of which author Byron photographed on his 1933 excursion.
Byron's original B/W photographs are available through the ebook's links as are many more current images, like this one of the Sheikh Lotf-Allah Mosque's interior.
Author Byron's intrepidity is also worth noting, too, especially when he travels to Firuzabad in southern Iran, accompanied by a squad of the Shah's policemen—ostensibly in attendance to fend off bandits—just so he can photograph and closely describe the local antiquities.
QUANDO VIAGGIARE ERA UN PIACERE Ho intrecciato e intervallato la lettura di questo bel libro con 'Talibani' di Ahmed Rashid, mi è sembrata una giusta abbinata.
e nemmeno la dignità del lavoro...Farli esplodere è stato un gesto artistico ispirato da Byron?PPPSSSWhen the Going Was Good, cioè, quando viaggiare era un piacere è un bel libro di viaggio firmato dal grande Evelyn Waugh.I Talebani distruggono le statue di Buddha a Bamiyan.
For only one thing is it now justly famous : a kind of boil which takes nine months to heal, and leaves a scar.Paul Fussell, a heavyweight if ever there was one, wrote in 1982 that The Road to Oxiana is to the travel book what "Ulysses is to the novel between the wars, and what The Waste Land is to poetry." And Bruce Chatwin wanted to get his copy surgically implanted into a cavity in his sacroiliac so he would never be parted.
2.5 starsThis book and its writer are a bit of an enigma and I found myself liking and disliking Robert Byron in equal measure.
The Road to Oxiana tells of a journey Byron made with Christopher Sykes to explore the architecture of what is now Iran and Afghanistan.
If you want well written descriptions of Islamic architecture then Byron is your man; illustrated below;“I have never encountered splendour of this kind before.
However Byron does write about Islamic architecture very well, at a time when it was not fashionable to do so
This is what makes a travel writer great and fit to enter the travel writer´s hall of fame.In “The Road To Oxiana” the journey goes through Persia and Afghanistan.
If I had met Robert Byron at an earlier stage in my travel life I would have been able to seek out the influence of Queen Goharshad Begum who was a great patroness of architecture and art in the area during the fist half of the 15th century.When I return to Iran I will make sure to take a copy with me to guide me to all the forgotten treasures.
Robert Byron is a writer who has at least one extremely funny wisecrack per page except when he is describing yet another dome, minaret or entrance gate with such intensity and long breath that you get bored after the detailed description of the fiftieth monument.
He starts out from Jerusalem and there are some pages on Palestine under British rule where he has some really deadly things to say about the idiocy of British burocracy at the time.
I imagine when Chatwin needed his spirit lifted, he could just read a few pages and his mood would improve instantly!
The tower, depicted in my copy in a photo as a menacing but plain cone-topped construct of pillared bricks, is brought to life by Byron's extraordinary knowledge and powers of description, as is everything else that crosses his path, from local people, to breathtaking landscapes, as well as the countless other ancient and often abandoned monuments that he seeks out.
For Robert Byron is a traveller in the truest, greatest sense: that is, he does not, ever, attempt to impose himself on the terrain and cultures he is exploring; he simply observes every detail with awe and gratitude and intelligence, managing in this great book to allow the reader to share that privilege with him.Reading 'The Road to Oxiana' made me sad too.
It only took me a few days to read this book about Robert Byron's 1934 journey through Persia and Afghanistan, but those few days were spread across six years.
Rory Stewart, in his Preface (which like all prefaces and introductions is best enjoyed after reading the book) observes that Byron more or less invented travel writing.
(His appreciative descriptions of medieval Islamic architecture kindled my own curiosity – inducing me to order Robert Irwin's Islamic Art in Context.)I had a shocked laugh, though, when I read his description of giant Buddhas of Bamyan, dynamited by the Taliban in 2001:Neither has any artistic value.
This is Central Asia with a vengeance. In 1933 Robert Byron made the trek into Central Asia by way of the Middle East; specifically, the Soviet Union by way of Afghanistan. The author's point-of-view is frequently called "eccentric," but it is also very observant. And Byron writes grippingly about a part of the world that still isn't that easy to explore. If you like travel tales, this is quite a good one.
There are many engaging European travel narratives of the late 19th and early 20th centuries, but this is one of the very best--better than Lawrence or Thesiger; possibly one of the greatest ever.
In 1933, Robert Byron--an English writer, art critic, and gentleman adventurer--joined up with his friend Christopher Sykes and embarked on a journey of nearly a year that took him from Italy through Cyprus and Jerusalem, thence across Persia and Afghanistan, and at last to the tiny country of Oxiana in the Afghan borderlands.
Hard not to wonder what so gifted a writer would have produced had he not been carried off so early.
This is a book that allows you to taste the tea, smell the leaves and the dust and feel the cool air of the oasis… AND to experience a by-gone world lost in the wars of the past thirty years.For nearly a year (1933-34), young Robert Byron traveled from Venice to Cyprus to Syria Iraq, Iran and into Afganistan.
It is not until he reaches Iran that we start to see Byron at his most joyful, taking us from mosque to mosque and describing them in rich and lyrical detail.If Byron had not been lost in a U-Boat attack during World War II, one wonders what other great books he would have produced.www.aroundtheworldineightyyears.com
He also spends a great deal of time looking at towers with caps that make them look like penises, which gets a little tedious.There are sit-up-with-a-jerk historical echoes in the present day, too: "In 1885 the military came to the rescue after all.
When dancing began, the floor rose like an angry sea, and no until several couples had been wrecked were nails employed to quiet the woolen breakers."(p 173)There is a new preface by Rory Stewart, who wrote The Places in Between and was responsible for bringing this book back into print, and an introduction by the fabulous Paul Fussell.
As a 'book' it is literally composed just of Byron's diary jottings as the journey wends its way along.
Seriously, this will be your impression for almost the first half of the book.
What is the point of this trip across Afghanistan and Iran?
It almost never emerges, until the book is over.It delivers somewhat better on its promise around the halfway mark, however.
One also gets a glimpse of 1930s Afghanistan.
Pair this book with Joseph Kessel's fabulous, 'The Horsemen' and you will surely wind up knowing more about the Afghans than 99.95% of Americans.
This classic travel memoir is the diary-style memoir of an Englishman crossing Persia and Afghanistan in 1933.
He is witty and likable, also random, pompous and casually racist in that impossibly pre-WWII way.
His observations are keen and his writing witty - I even laughed out loud twice.
Most of the book reads as a diary meant for himself - casual half-references to characters with no explanation whatsoever.
I kept picking the book up, but the entire time felt a temper tantrum simmering just below the surface.
Mark Twain is all the classic I could ever want.
The 1930s, from this distance at least, feels like the last time you could go somewhere in the world and it would be really different, plus there was still an aristocratic class with the money and free time to meander around the world with all the positive and negative results of amateur exploration.
The actual writing of the book is odd and varied and quite modernist - Paul Fussell (who I will be adding to my booklist before long) says The Road to Oxiana is to travel writing what Ulysses is to the novel and The Wasteland is to poetry - a pretty heady claim!
- to get an idea of what he was after.
Funny and casually erudite.
Snarky, underfunded, antisocial, linguistically limited, and with a keen dislike of both his own people and those of other nations, Byron trekked through Iran and Afghanistan in search of architectural treasures. The Road to Oxiana, composed in the form of a journal, veers between beautifully restrained descriptions of landscapes and ridiculous, self-deprecating slapstick. It's heavy on art theory and historical background but never for a moment feels either boring or stilted. A hugely fun, enormously informative read.
mi ha fatto scoprire l'Afghanistan, l'inizio di una passione geo-letteraria
Foi finalmente publicado em Portugal, na coleção de literatura de viagens da editora Tinta da China, com uma tradução impecável (a boa tradução é aquela que não se dá por ela) e uma introdução da jornalista Alexandra Lucas Coelho.Publicado originalmente em 1937, relata uma viagem (feita em duas parte), em 1933 e 1934, que começou em Inglaterra, passou por Veneza e Trieste, e depois seguiu uma rota que atravessou a Palestina, no que seria hoje o estado de Israel, passando por Telavive e Jerusalém, a Síria, o Iraque, a Pérsia, hoje o Irão, o Afeganistão, o verdadeiro objectivo da sua viagem, e a Índia (em Peshawar, que hoje é no Paquistão), mas só de passagem, já no caminho de regresso.Este livro de Robert Byron é muitas vezes considerado o fundador da moderna literatura de viagens, criando o padrão pelo qual se regeriam os travelogues de em diante.
The greatest travel book ever written, following the journey of Robert Byron across the Middle East as he tries to reach the river Oxus, the old Greek name for the Amu Darya, on the northern border of Afghanistan.
It's written in a wondrous prose style, jaunty, elegant, and moving with a pace that makes writers today sound turgid: "We went to the Lido this morning, and the Doge's Palace looked more beautiful from a speed-boat than it ever did from a gondola."People always criticize by default any white male travel writer writing about the Middle East--but Byron keeps his account free from racial or religious prejudices and focuses instead on art and architecture.
In the early 1930s, Robert Byron traveled throughout Persia and Afghanistan, with any eye toward seeing spectacular examples of Muslim architecture with his own eyes.
His description of a father and son getting their goats across a flood-swollen river really grabbed me.If you are interested in this part of the world, read this book.
One thing I learned from this book -- I want to read more about Goharshad -- the most amazing woman from world history you may never have heard of.
Um livro que fui lendo lentamente, tomando o pulso à viagem de Robert Byron, um inglês erudito e que partiu para o Médio Oriente para observar a arquitectura muçulmana.
Uma viagem de meses pela antiga Pérsia e Afeganistão.
Humor britânico, sensibilidade para observar o que escapa ao olho normal, surpreendeu pela enorme cultura histórica do autor.Fiquei a gostar de um país que está em guerra à décadas e em que o autor faz observações sobre geo-política que ainda se mantém actual.Uma viagem no tempo em que eram grandes aventuras, com doenças, andar dias a cavalo, problemas com a burocracia e comer com grande modéstia.Uma obra prima definitivamente.
Não muito longe, fica o igualmente isolado e fértil vale de Fergana, onde nasceu Babur, o mítico fundador do que viria a ser o riquíssimo, culto e tolerante império mogol da Índia.Sentindo-se asfixiar numa Europa mergulhada em grande desordem, acabada de sair da I Grande Guerra, com a Grande Depressão no seu máximo furor, a ascensão de Hitler à Chancelaria cavalgando os seus discursos histéricos e inflamados, a União Soviética fortalecida sob a mão de ferro de Estaline e o Império Britânico em pleno declínio, vergado aos protestos pacíficos de Gandhi, mas mantendo teimosamente a rígida moral vitoriana que condenara Oscar Wilde à prisão, Robert Byron sonha refugiar-se no canto mais remoto da Terra, numa destas cidades-oásis da Ásia Central, que ficam para lá do rio Oxus, a Transoxiana!Apesar dos enormes desafios burocráticos e financeiros, Byron consegue aproveitar um momento único na História, quando o equilíbrio de poderes entre os impérios soviético e britânico possibilita o renascimento da Pérsia e do Afeganistão como países independentes, estados-tampão que separam geograficamente as duas grandes potências.
It emanated from clusters of small yellow-green flowers, which are unnoticeable from a distance, but which, if I ever smell then again, will remind me of Afghanistan as a cedar wardrobe reminds me of childhood (Oxiana, pg 281Of course Byron also embarrasses himself when he predicts that the Afghanis are on the right path to modernization while the Iranians are not, or what is wrong with the people who won't let dogs in their house, or how the Bamian Buddhas just feel worn out and tired.But he genuinely loves Islamic architecture and has much to discuss with the reader.
I mean, try going on Byron's 1933 trip today: from Italy by boat to what was then Palestine, then by bus to Damascus, Baghdad, Tehran, Herat, Kabul...It would be an itinerary of the mad (or aid worker!).Anyway, the rather eccentric Byron was one of the many British rich kids turned dandyesque adventurer of the 1920s and 30s who became obsessed with traveling the world (often ending up in Asia and the Middle East working in some way or another for the Government, mostly as spies of sort).
He doesnt explain, compare or challenge the local people - he's just trying to experience new things and to be a true traveler and explorer.
Can't wait for my own epic trip through Oxiana (from Iran to Siberia via all the 'stans, azerbaijan, armenia, georgia, mongolia...).
2,5Io e la narrativa di viaggio non abbiamo mai avuto un gran feeling, e questo romanzo non fa che confermarlo.
Una considerazione finale: Chatwin ha intitolato la sua prefazione a questo libro "Lamento per l'Afghanistan" e, visti i tempi attuali, si tratta di un titolo che calza proprio a pennello.
Leggendo questo romanzo, infatti, non si può fare a meno di provare una certa tristezza al pensiero di un patrimonio artistico e di un'intera area geografica (Iran/Afghanistan/Siria/Iraq) che ormai ci sono quasi completamente preclusi.
I don't doubt his interest and knowledge on the initial subject matter, but I feel it was mainly an excuse to express his unique perspective on all manner of things.The narrative takes in the people and places surrounding his quest from Persia through to the Oxiana river in Turkestan (present day Afganistan I think).
There is a vast cast of characters breezing in and out of the pages which gives it a real Jazz-age feel.
I hadn't read a whole lot of non-fiction or travelogues before then, and I didn't know much about the book before I started.
I would love to reread it again, because I know my reading tastes have changed.
I like reading about cities and places and history, so perhaps that was it.
I don't remember the narrator being racist -- but an Englishman being racist on a jaunty road trip through the Middle East wouldn't surprise me in the slightest.I'll give this 3.5 stars for now, but if I reread it, I'll be sure to rate it again.
I admired the form and style of this book maybe more than the content.
Byron writes in short paragraph form with sarcasm, and an often merciful travel eye.
But perhaps most of all I admire his hunger to travel to remote locales and his ability and imagination to find beauty in fragments of thousands year old ruins.
Byron's obsession with eastern art and architecture seems at least in part to do with the end of WWI and the end of government, and God, as the West traditionally conceived of them.

