https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18126198-four
Because no. Just no. FOR GOD'S SAKE WHEN A SERIES IS DONE JUST LET IT BE F-ING DONE!!!!!!!No more novellas. No more telling the story from a different character's perspective. No more "where are they now" (or "where were they before"). NO MORE!EDIT: I'm a mom to a teen (as of today - waaaaaaaah). Whining on my review of how I'm a "big meanie" or how I "just don't get it" is something I hear on the regular, so save your breath. This is MY review and MY opinion - if you're a Roth superfan go post

Overwhelmingly underwhelming.And that is as about as positive as I can get.It felt more like the author was frantically filling in plot holes rather than writing something new.  The Transfer  - Was this one  reallllly  necessary??? From the main books, we already know that Four picked Dauntless because he wanted to escape his abusive father. And this short story....told exactly that. I suppose, it was just a really, really drawn out version... but still. Felt like a waste of page space.  The Ini
Overwhelmingly underwhelming.And that is as about as positive as I can get.It felt more like the author was frantically filling in plot holes rather than writing something new.
We see some of the main players from Divergent (mainly Eric and the Dauntless-born initiates) as Four comes to terms with his new life.
But honestly, it feels like we already lived through this.
- A Stiff enters dauntless, gets ridiculed but manages to come out on top.
- A Stiff enters dauntless BUT he's like, super nervous and stuff, gets ridiculed and manages to come out on top.
The fact that this is a thing makes me so happy. And yes, this is Theo James.
I REALLY ENJOYED THIS.It was really fun to get into Four's head 2 years before he even meets Tris, because you get to see a different side of him.
You get to see the scared boy from Abnegation struggling to break free from his faction and abusive father, and you see him grow into the man he is by the time Divergent begins.
There was plenty of foreshadowing to the other books in the trilogy as well, which I loved.
It was also nice but somewhat sad to see some of the characters that maybe didn't make it to book 3.
*lol*Well anyway, I loved “Divergent” and even though the series lost its appeal during the second book I’m still a huge fan of Tobias and Tris.
”I struggle for air, but it’s not because of my aching legs; it’s because of my weak heart, growing stronger with each passing second.”Still, those stories were interesting to read and kind of caused me to remember why I loved the first book so much!
I will not be a pawn, not for them and not for my mother and not for my father; I will not belong to anyone but myself.”Conclusion:I enjoyed reading “Four” and I’m sure everyone who liked Tobias will be happy to read those stories as well.
Oh how I've missed the Divergent universe and all of its characters!  Four, Tris, Zeke, Shauna, Uriaha, Christina, Marlene and Lynn. If it's one thing Veronica Roth is the master of, it's creating realistic and likeable characters that you'll end up caring for. (view spoiler)[ And then ripping them away one by one! (hide spoiler)]. Four: A Divergent Collection includes four short stories, all told from Tobias POV, and three exclusive scenes from Divergent.The short stories: Four: The Transer  ⭐⭐
Four: A Divergent Collection includes four short stories, all told from Tobias POV, and three exclusive scenes from Divergent.The short stories: Four: The Transer  ⭐⭐⭐⭐ You can read my full review: hereThe transfer follows Tobias from the day of his aptitude test, though his Choosing day and until the moment he's given his infamous nickname- Four.
Four: The Initiate  ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐ You can read my full review: hereThe Initiate follows Four through a series of events, like his first time drinking, getting his first tattoo, making friends, training and fighting.
Four: The Traitor  ⭐⭐⭐⭐ You can read my full review: hereThe Traitor follows Tobias as he struggles with revelations from the previous stories, as well as some new information, while he's getting to know Tris Prior.
I AM SO EXCITED FOR THIS IT'S NOT EVEN FUNNY! This is going to be my face until the book is released:
I was pleasantly surprised how much I liked this short book about Four (Tobias).
The book explores his early life with his father and the reasons he picked Dauntless as his faction.
It tells of the different trials and tribulations he went through in the first couple of years.
Then is tells of his first meeting of Tris.
Especially after reading the last book in the trilogy.
No matter how many times you read these books, they will always end the same unless you want to write some fanfiction and change it =) Overall, a great little book!
I really really enjoyed this! I am beginning to think I end up liking Novella collections more than the actual series they belong to
And i fell in love with Four all over againReading Four made me feel this weird feeling, That feeling you get when you watch your old photos or videos like.
I got the same old feeling of liking him.
In Allegiant Four's voice was too similar to Tris's and I disliked it.
When i read divergent i felt that i was right there in the dauntless sector.
If you loved Four like i did then read it.
But common how can i resist these quotes and our good old Four.
i have seen all the movies in the saw franchise, i keep getting wicked excited every time i see there is a new newsflesh short story available, just when i thought i would never get to revisit that world, and i will read any and all retellings of wuthering heights, no matter how dreadful.so i get the impulse that leads to the perpetuation of a series, even when it might not be "necessary" in terms of addressing unanswered questions or filling in any timelines.
what if this scene had been seen through his eyes in Divergent?
Four: A Divergent Story Collection contains all of the following short stories:1. The Transfer: A Divergent Story2. The Initiate: A Divergent Story3. The Son: A Divergent Story4. The Traitor: A Divergent Story
I just love Four so much, seriously, my love for him is ENDLESS. I soaked this goodness right up and I couldn't help this surge of devastation and sadness as I closed the book one final time. It made me want to jump up and re-read Divergent immediately (Divergent only, reading the other two would be much too painful), and it made me realize how much I love Tris and Four's relationship as well. Aaaannd then of course there's Veronica Roth's beautiful writing.Just, so much love.___mmmm that coverme likey.___SO EXCITED FOR THIS FOUR MY BABY
Reading about this universe from Four's POV was really fascinating.
Of course, I already knew a lot of what was going to happen so there were not too many surprises in this book.
I just really loved reading scenes with Four and Tris in particular.Apart from that I can't get enough from Veronica Roth.
She should consider writing faster, cause I'm desperate for more.
Veronica is seriously one of the most amazing writes in YA today.Find more of my books on Instagram
It should come as no suprise that I rated this book as a 5. I have always dubbed Four as my fictional husband will always continue to do so.I loved this entire book and devoured it within hours. I loved learning about Four's past and how he came to be Dauntless and even meeting Tris.There's not much else to say really. I don't want to spoil the Divergent trilogy for anyone who hasn't read it. I will say you have to read it though! It's one of my favorite series, ever!!All I gotta say is- MORE FOUR!!!!
Wait. We can have ALL FOUR short stories in Tobia's POV. ALL IN ONE???!!! I think I'm going to die. No wait... Buy the book, read it, love it then die.That ferris wheel.7/11/14Well. I bought the book. I'm gonna die soon.
I've loved this characters for so long.
He is hateful in the beginning, he doesn't crack a smile, he doesn't laugh, he doesn't love but we learn that in time he changes into someone with not just a past, but into someone who knows he's got a future.
In the last novella, The Traitor, we see how he falls in love.
How it's not just beauty that sings to him but also the personality, he falls in love out of the pure emotions that girl, Tris, triggers in him.
He learned to love.
He and Tris learned to love each other, together.
My first reaction to the book.....While I was reading.....After reading.....Yup that sums it up.
El único motivo que tenía para leer esta novela era por él, Cuatro, pues me parecía un personaje muy interesante.
Sin embargo, no creo que las historias le hagan justicia como personaje.
Son historias muy simples, que sí que es verdad que arrojan ciertos datos a la historia, pero que no consiguen plantear una trama interesante.
Me costaba coger el libro para leerlo, y me he tenido que obligar en ocasiones a terminar alguna de las historias.Las dos primeras son sin más, relleno.
Tampoco aportan gran cosa, aunque sí que es más interesante que las dos primeras historias.En definitiva, no son historias del todo malas, pero no aportan nada.
"I look down at her. She has that side, too, she must have it. I saw the way she looked when she beat Molly, like she was going to keep going whether her opponent was unconscious or not. Maybe she and I are the same. " You are, Four, just not in the way you think. We all remember the disaster that is Allegiant. Tris and Four's voice are totally indistinguishable. Reading a novella entirely in his POV has made me all the more sure. I don't think it's Roth being unable to write a believable male
I saw the way she looked when she beat Molly, like she was going to keep going whether her opponent was unconscious or not.
You are, Four, just not in the way you think.
Tris and Four's voice are totally indistinguishable.
Reading a novella entirely in his POV has made me all the more sure.
I don't think it's Roth being unable to write a believable male POV.
I don't know if it's an Abnegation thing, but his thoughts are far too clean for an 18-year-old boy.Uber Divergent fans will gobble this collection up like cake.
I love Veronica Roth's books so, so much and Four was awesome.
I love getting to know a smaller Shauna and Zeke too.
I thought he'd have more of a rivalry going with Four, but Eric is basically in the background.Story #3: The Son.Not really sure why it's called that?
It includes a lot of scenes we already know from Tris' POV.
I love Four, don't get me wrong, but his thoughts during a situation didn't seem altogether different from Tris'.
I love Tris too.
PEOPLES, I FREAKING LOVE VERONICA ROTH AND FOUR AND TRIS AND DIVERGENT.
I love each book and this was perfection.
The psychotic Divergent fangirl that turns into a squealing 13 year old every time Four’s name is even mentioned?
You’re only giving this 3 stars?
Here are the facts: this book gives us little to no new information.
The little bit of new information we get is great for a fangirl, but just ok for your every day read.
Right?) Anyway, we do get a couple stories that show us what his life was like and why he changed factions.
For Divergent junkies like me, you will probably love it.
For people who hate the series, avoid it like the plague.
" Maybe she and I are the same."VERONICA YOU'VE JUST OPENED A WOUND.This books wrecks every little part of me.I had forgotten how much i loved Tobias Eaton.It's amazing to get to seeDivergent through Tobias' point of view.His fear landescape, his initiation as a Dauntless...
And the way he thought about Tris as "her" like there was no other."For some reason, my first thought is her, her wide eyes staring at me from the recesses of my memory.""In that moment I’m able to accept the inevitability of how I feel, though not with joy.
I need to talk to someone.
I need to trust someone.
And for whatever reason, I know, I know it’s her."
It had been an long time since I read the Divergent series, so it is nice getting back into it :)When reading the Initiate these were the thoughts that were going through my mind.
I wish a little bit of this would have happened just to keep it even more interesting."When reading The Son these were the thoughts going through my mind.
I loved reading about Tris and Four meeting and getting to know each other from his perspective :) Very cool!I love this story and it was such a nice taste to read a book that I really enjoyed from a different main character's perspective.
3.5/5I think I enjoyed this more than the Divergent trilogy!
Een mooie toevoeging aan de Divergent-serie! Mijn recensie kan je hier lezen: http://nerdygeekyfanboy.com/recensie/...
Su padre no le cree, por supuesto.Tobias se siente como un traidor a la facción de Osadía porque esta traicionando tanto a su facción anterior como a la actual, pero finalmente ha tomado la decisión, que es salvar a los inocentes.Las últimas 3 historias en realidad son minihistorias, son pasajes de Divergente reescritos desde la perspectiva de Tobias, son buenos, me gustó la forma en que Cuatra trata de emular a su mentor con los nuevos iniciados.
2.5 The truth about this is that it is not worth it.
Truth sucks, I know.
You'll love it.It's a good move, yhea.
-People liked this Divergent thing, the movie made it good enough, lets do some Four-shit thing because we love money.
- It is actually a good move.
The only good thing: Four's friendship with Zeke and Shauna.There it is that's all I got.
So, yes, do with that whatever you want.Realmente no lo entiendo, si no tienes nada nuevo que decir, pues no digas nada!
Y eso es todo lo que tengo que decir.Bye
I really wish I didn't read this book in less than 24 hours. I can't believe the series is really over. So sad its over. Reading about Four's point of view in situations and his life brought so many feels and his first encounter with Tris... OMG THE FEELS. Amazing book.
I forgot just how much I loved Veronica Roth's writing.
It was awesome to read about Four's character development - he seems like a completely different person in the first story.
We, of course, already knew about Tobias's background but somehow reading about it in the present tense and in first person really made me understand and like his character a lot more.
I'm slightly sad to think that there's no more to come from Veronica, but if she writes anything else I'll be one of the first to read it!
