https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26190.Love_and_Saint_Augustine
Her approach was in no way partisan or sectarian; she simply attempted to put the insights of Augustine into terms of the human situation, accessible to anyone.This book came to my attention through my friend, one of the editors (who also wrote an interpretive essay), Judith Stark, who studied philosophy with Hannah Arendt at the New School for Social Research in the 1970’s.
This leads to a selfless freedom in loving one’s neighbor, as well as to a kind of detached compassionate worldview which reminds me of Buddhism.This way of interpreting Augustine is somewhat new to me and makes me want to go back to reading Augustine’s Confessions, to see if I can find in Augustine what Arendt finds in him.
Understanding society (a recent concept) and the individual soul was a lifetime passion for Arnedt. This is a very good book, and it is interesting she starts out her major writing career with Augustine.
Une analyse complexe et étendue de plusieurs notions chez Saint Augustin ... il faut s’accrocher...mais certains passages sont passionnants
Dilectio (στοργή): the love of one's neighbor  (dilectio proximi), which anticipates the love of  God in the free, non-desiring affection for another  human being and thus making possible a godly position  in the world.The concept of love revolves thematically less about the relationship of man to God than about man to the world, worldliness and otherworldliness, the individual's tense relationship to the world as well as the problem ofbeing with others in the world.Thus, Arendt's essay belongs thematically to the existential philosophical tradition of Jaspers and Heidegger and - religiously to the demythologizing theology of Rudolf Bultmanns, thereby reflecting the thinking and influences of the author's three main academic teachers with her own strong independent views that also appear in the later works of her career.
This book is a gem! The best title I have ever read on this unequivocal subject -- it should be mandatory reading on any reading list. It is deep, penetrating, and brilliantly researched.
Religious text pretty much. Love is love of god, self love. Love is how you approach the world. It was the right book for me at the right time in my life.I'm a convert!
Truly an enjoyable and accessible read.
Wow! Hannah Arendt knows more about Christianity than most Christians I know.
Ein beeindruckendes Buch. Es hat eine unglaubliche Dichte, die der Verständlichkeit aber nicht abträglich ist.
