https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9914.The_Informers
For anyone who has not had the mixture of pleasure, horror, disgust and loathing which is generated by the reading of American Psycho, then you should probably start here to ease your way into the dismissive, violent and destructive world which Ellis describes.
Thanks Bret, I feel like a paragon of crystalline virtue now.
It's a collection of looooooooooosely connected short stories.
When I first read the novel in '94, not knowing this fact threw me off completely.
Now, after re-reading the book the connection between stories is more apparent, the two most common links are tumbleweeds and everything takes place in L.A. It's very episodic, like Pulp Fiction on cocaine, Nembutal, pot and high end alcohol and even veers into horror territory (there's a story about uber-hip Wayfarer wearing vampires).
However, the more I re-read BEE's novel the more I realize I love his writing style but not necessary his writing.
Sure, it looks entertaining.
But, I promise you, by the time you get to the thirtieth page you'll start flipping through the pages, just to see if the 'might as well kill ourselves now' tone dies down a little as the book goes on.
An endless, painful, LONG look at the lives of some very spoiled, very addicted teenagers and their over medicated, surgically altered parents.
There's only so many 'lets smoke a joint and shoot up and have meaningless, stoned sex' scenes a person can take and throughout the book your bombarded with them, page after page.
I kept hoping that the minutia of the characters' lives will somehow lead to or add up to a scathing commentary about society or the way some people live, but sadly, it does not.
Ultimately, I felt like I was just following the Twitter accounts of several rich Southern Californians leading lives of debauchery.
Bret Easton Ellis is of my biggest influences as an author and while this book isn’t quite on a level with the exceptional American Psycho, which is probably his masterpiece, it is still excellent and well worth reading.The way Bret Easton Ellis captures the mindset of a certain element of society in the 1980s and pushes it to it’s logical conclusion is very much something I was trying to emulate in Drug Gang, with my chosen time period being the early 2000s.This collection of stories set in Los Angeles in the 1980s offers plenty of food for thought, particularly when it comes to philosophy and morality.“Greed is good.
Bret Easton Ellis is a writer I feel gets his fair share of criticism, sometimes I would agree, most of the time I wouldn't, he can write, no doubts about it.
He deserves more credit, everything in this novel has a point, despite it's nihilistic themes.
The Informers picks off moments from his other novels, but it's no where near as controversial.
It is sometimes hard to follow and difficult to make the connections between the many characters, but Ellis does sucks you into his world.
All in all this was worth reading for fans of Ellis, for others, not the best place to start.
Now I can sympathise and understand but they certainly come across as more annoying than anything else, much like all of the characters Ellis uses in his novels.I found a lot of similarities between this and my favourite Haruki Murakami novel, Dance, Dance, Dance, obviously the same mid 80s setting but also the characters share the same disconnectedness with a booming economy and the social changes that brings.
For me however it was always the debut album from Jack's Mannequin, Everything in Transit that made me think of the lost people wandering around L.A. in the work of Bret Easton Ellis.A side note on the artwork for this particular edition, perfect.
Definitely not a place to start with Bret Easton Ellis.
i know a lot of people tend to not enjoy ellis' style of writing, but i think that the joy in his writing is all within the way everything is so disconnected and connected, all at the same time.no other author can write end on end about seemingly useless facts, and still have use for them.
his disconnected actions.less than zero and  rules of attraction do the same thing.his style is focused on disconnection.now, the art of that, is to write in a disconnected state, but still be connected to your readers.ellis does that.
Some particular moments I really liked - (where Ellis does infuse just the slightest breath of fresh air, of actual human emotion) - are such as the early story, In The Islands, when a young Tim Price (Bateman’s friend, American Psycho) reluctantly joins his father in Hawaii.
And while both books are very similar, I honestly think that, with the addition of many different people, as opposed to just one unlikable teenager, The Informers actually takes the edge over Ellis’s famous and reputable first novel.
I don’t know why I keep coming back to Bret Easton Ellis, I never seem to overly enjoy his vacuous characters but something keeps drawing me back.
There are a lot of conversations in this book between different characters and this is the part of the book that Bret Easton Ellis does best.
The book feels shallow and cynical; it tries to spotlight a moral decline of Californian life.
Most of Bret Easton Ellis novels feel the same, he is often called a moral satirist but I often feel like he is just a nihilist.
Started skimming so much and then downright paging through to other chapters, then to the end, then said "enough!" It start off THAT bad which is why I got so far in.
But the supposedly connected series of short stories were just too damn confusing.
I sent most of each chapter trying to remember how each person was connected to previous stories and then I realized it just should not be that hard.
Ever story was told in the first person & it seemed like it took until 2-3 pages in to figure out who it was talking.
The conscientious ease with which emotions are smothered belies the death of humanity uninformed by self-awareness (everyone else is objectified), vulnerability, or morality (that is not solely motivated by personal gratification).
The semblance of life in this death asserts itself ultimately through violence and a vampiric feeding of blood.
The Informers continues Ellis's narrative arc depicting the moral vacuity of excess in 80s America.
While serial torture and murder befitted the psychotic absence of empathy for Bateman, the vampires in this novel are fuelled by an undeniable need to be undead.
Wikipedia, by the by, seems to fall strongly on the other side of the novel/vs short story collection fence.
So, if you follow, we've got a short story collection.
I'm unsure of the chronology, but it seems like The Informers is Ellis working out themes and playing with character types that would later make up his novels.
Since I've filled in the sparsity of style and work with preludes to later and greater projects, I've also assumed that the shorts were products of experiment in Ellis' fictional laboratory (the super-wealthy hyper-desensitized party community) Hence the meshed review.
Ellis is a great writer when it comes to observing the bland superficiality of our modern society, savagely satirical depictions of capitalist America and its inhabitants.One of my favourite short story collections from a master writer.
I hate Bret Easton Ellis and his books for a number of reasons. I will list those reasons now. - it's simply too ironic that most people find him style over substance. - he makes writing seem like the easiest thing in the world. - the most interesting part of his books are the parts that he doesn't include.- for some reason I keep reading him- for some even weirder reason I love everything of his that I read. If this review doesn't make sense it's because Bret Easton Ellis inspired it.
I know that's the point when Ellis is writing about rich people, but it pretty much felt like I was reading the parts of Less Than Zero that ended up on the cutting room floor.
If you want to read about boring spoiled rich people, read American Psycho.
If you want to read about boring spoiled rich people in LA, read Less Than Zero.
If you want to bore yourself to tears, read this one.I'm not an Ellis hater, I love his style, loved American Psycho.
Honestly, the best part is a mention of a guinea pig wearing a diamond necklace.

Gave up 10 pages before the end of it.
Unlike those other works, in very few places in 'The Informers' does one actually get a vantage point that provides a narrative contrast or "space" that allows the reader to really feel the banality of waste, selfishness, and lostness being depicted.
Instead, the banality and lostness smothered this reader to the point where there was no silent place to feel anything for these characters.
I love B.E.E. because of his unerring talent for creating the best kind of repulsed fascination.
I am so surprised by Raymond's emotion that I lean against the door and just stare, watching him bunch his hands into fists.'He was my friend,' he says between intakes of breath, not looking up at me.I'm looking at a yellowed tile on the wall for a long time, wondering how the waiter, who I am positive I had asked not to put garbanzo beans in my salad, actually had.
Where was the waiter born, why had he come to Mario's hadn't he looked at the salad, didn't he understand?
I like this book because his writing contains loose affiliations of the different characters in the book.
The first 9 chapters were great but the last 4 were not great.Each chapter has a different character narrating it and is loosely connected to the other chapter but at its heart each character is alone.
The characters have to take drugs/alcohol just try to relate to each other shows you the depth of their isolation.
There is an eerie theme of the characters eyes being vacuous.
They are living without a sense of purpose.
It would be interesting to play in there occasionally but not to live in it.
This story lacks subject.
Guys and girls who are all uniformly rich, drug-addicted, bird-brained, big fans of sunglasses, blond, tanned, gorgeous shuffle around doing nothing, perhaps to portray the meaninglessness of life.
The plot is horrible.
To be honest, it doesn't seem to really have a plot.
It's really more a series of horrible short stories connected only by the chracters that are mentioned.
It has sex, drug, money, and nothing more.
Throughout the book, none of the characters think about or do anything other than have sex, do drugs, and engage in violent activities.
Decent, but my least favorite BEE books so far.
I wish there had been some distinction, either on the cover or the chapter titles, that these were more themed short stories rather than a linear novel.
I would have read it differently and maybe spent less time trying to figure out if the narrators had changed, if there were recurring, if the characters were interwoven, etc.
There were some great descriptions and maybe one chapter that pulled some emotional strings for me, but overall it was hard to become entirely enticed by this book.
Maybe I'll read it again in the future now that I'm more prepared for the structure.
For the first one hundred pages I felt like it was just a not-quite-as-interesting rehash of what Ellis did in Less than Zero.
However I found myself getting drawn into the strange ties between the stories, and the way the book continues to spiral into darkness.
I find it hard to believe that it isn't classified as a collection of short stories, and as such I think number #12 was the stand out one to me.
Worth picking up if you're an Ellis fan, but if you find his style at all tiresome I'd skip over it for one of his more conservative pieces.
Drugs, expensive cars, designer clothes, and everyone unsuccessfully navigating and relating to love and lovers and one-night lubricated stands and friends and family and whatever else there might be out there.For me, it's solely about the first-person present tense all hard angles and go and fuck you for looking back.
What's missing is almost more interesting than what's present.Okay, so it's a little disconcerting and maybe a little self-indulgent being shoved so far out one's own skull, like being flung into a distant orbit, knowing (hoping) you'll return, but not for a while, and you might as well enjoy the view before the wreck.
Brett Easton Ellis beheerst het beschrijven van de leegte als geen ander. Zo ook in deze verhalenbundel . 13 verschillende verhalen die allemaal op zichzelf heel typisch het leven vertellen in de jaren ‘80 van jongeren.Na Less than Zero, Imperial Bedrooms, wederom een boek dat je meeneemt in de leegte van rijkdom. Bijzonder.
I know that the owner of the Seven Seas slept with him and now Julian has a free pass and all the coke he wants.” Susan sighs mock-wearily.
A good way to start the day for some, but for a lot of lonely housewives in Los Angeles, sleeping with young men the same age as their son was simply just another Tuesday.
You can't make it in Los Angeles unless you're willing to do awful things, and for the most part The Informers is flooded with people more than willing.
What Ellis has brought forth in “The Informers” is another book about lost people in Los Angeles, written in a way reminiscent of the “cut-up” approach of William Burroughs, but without the hallucinatory properties that writer brought to the page, a novel that manages to hold together the contradictory threads of sly satire and serious narrative.
In eager anticipation of Ellis’ upcoming work “Imperial Bedrooms”, which is a sequel to the unforgettable “Less Than Zero”, I decided to put off reading “American Psycho” for a later date, and return to the moral desert of 1980’s Los Angeles depicted in “The Informers”, a collection of loosely connected short stories about a variety of wealthy, damaged people from that region of southern California.
With “The Informers”, rather than feeling that slow, cinematic-like descent into the abyss of darkness like we did in “Less Than Zero”, we get a collection of snapshots (some more vivid than others) that progressively form a whole picture.
