https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1069576.Twenty_and_Ten
This book is small. but what it lacks in size, it makes up for in good, clean, historical fiction. One of the coolest stories I have ever read. Great for young kids who want to start reading historical books.
I cannot believe how very good this was. I just wish it had been about five times longer, because it was kind of short, and I read it in two days.
It meets one of my main problems with WWII lit for young kids: while it makes it clear that it was a case of life and death for the kids, it never actually says that, well, except for one rather understated sentence.
It is quite clear that the Jewish kids understood the danger they were in.
It isn't so clear that the original 20 French kids understood it.
However, they understood it was war, which it had been for pretty much their whole lives, and that the other kids, who they point out, look just like the French kids, were in danger of being killed.
Well, I read this book because I love the made for PBS one hour Wonderworks movie Miracle at Moreaux, which was based on this particular story.
The 20 Christian children in this story are all about ten or eleven years old except for one four year old; the 10 Jewish children seem to be various ages.I liked the movie, which I saw on tv over 25 years ago, better than I liked the book.
I read this with two small reading groups. Such a great story to introduce upper elementary children to WWII in Europe without going overboard on the horror that it was. No need to give the little ones nightmares!
I first read this story many, many, many years ago.
After about 4 years of searching, I found it accidently while on a business trip.
My daughter read it along with her history section on WWII in school (I had her doing a lot of outside reading during school.) Fast forward a few years (ok, about 15) and she had HER children read this book also while studying WWII.Its not an easy book, since it DOES cover the atrocities that the Nazi's committed during WWII.
But it also shows that even children can be brave when there is a great wrong going on.
One of our family favorites! You will not be able to just read one chapter! The 9 year old wants the review to say that she gives it 7 thousand stars!
Based on a true story, this book is definitely serious, and tense in places, but not quite tense enough to be scary. I'm really glad friends recommended it to me, and I look forward to discussing it with my kids later this year when they're studying WWII. Courage, kindness, integrity, and ingenuity are all featured here, making a powerful impact in very few words.
Twenty and Ten is a good short novel about a group of French Catholic schoolchildren embracing danger for the sake of the persecuted.
They must also navigate manipulation by their Nazi occupiers in a way that is ethically and morally upright, a struggle I didn't grasp as a kid but that makes the story tense for more reasons than the threat of bodily harm.
Unsentimental and blunt in the way of children themselves, and the narrow slice of the Holocaust that it depicts is a good way to introduce young readers, through this one concrete episode, to a much larger topic.
Jewish children patience to hide a place of cave for safely, no food and any things, because Nazis looking for those children. They protest to deny tell to Nazis where Jewish boys and girls. Nazis need parts of water, because they thirsty so badly. They make Nazis scolding and outrageous. One woman who is nun, Sister Gabriel. She keeps children whose Jewish are. They really brave, good common sense, and use wit. Sister Gabriel dignity to Jewish children are.
A young chapter book concerning a French school of 5th graders who take in 10 Jewish children. When the teacher leaves for the town to pick up supplies, 2 Nazi's come. The hiding of the Jewish children and the Nazi's threats and treatment of the French children are treated in an age appropriate way. Maybe a 3.5 - I did like the twist of the Germans supplying the miracle for the acting out of the loaves and fishes.
A great book for lower readers wanting to learning a bit about rescue and resistence during the Holocaust. It does have some "old school" vocabulary... which is great for the students to think through the words and their context meaning. The story is about a nun and her young charges, hiding some Jewish children...and a couple of Nazi soldiers come searching.
Maybe 4 stars--it's hard for me to gauge how I would have felt about the book when I was the ideal age for it. Good, short, simple read about French school children hiding a group of Jewish boys and girls. Probably tense for younger readers, but not too scary.
Kids loved this book! True story of 20 French children who have to hide 10 Jewish children during the Nazi occupation. It was a nice way to have my kids think through the period as well as consider what they would do if in that situation.
This is an excellent short story set during World War II. It is targeted at young adults, but this is a story for adults too. Outstanding story, well written, with a great moral.
When I started this story I focused on the language that the author uses and the elements behind attracting a child reader.
There are scenes in the story such as the bickering that would be more often however I think there is an element of maturity that these children have to face since they live in the World War II era.
It's hard to think that students and teachers really went through these kinds of actions and I believe that Bishop created a world that most children can learn and relate towards.
Full review here.
Many, many children’s books have been written about WWII.
Some are moralistic.
Some are determined to educate children about history.
As the story unfolds, we learn details such as how precious a single square of chocolate was, and how a fresh orange was even more exciting than chocolate.
How even children who were basically safe and healthy during the war never quite got enough to eat.
The book is earnest, even moral, in tone, but it is not santimonious.
Futhermore, the story she tells here is based on a real event.
A middle-grade story about World War II and French children protecting Jewish children. There is an awareness that the Jewish children are familiar with danger. It is clear that they could die if caught, but otherwise the story is not graphic. Hunger is a part of everyday life in 1944, and great selflessness is demonstrated by both Jewish and Gentile children. I was surprised that the Jewish children are willing to play re-enactment of NT stories. The writing style sounds like a shared personal experience. It is based on a true story, but not the author’s experience.
This shouldn’t count towards my 2017 book count because it’s so short. But the content is so inspiring. I can’t imagine experiencing WW2 (or any war for that matter) and I especially can’t begin to comprehend how I’d feel being threatened by gun-yielding soldiers... as a child. Even though it was probably 20 minute story, it is one that sticks.
Very good chapter book about Jewish children hiding among French children being looked after by Sister Gabriel. The suspense of the Nazi soldiers questioning the French children is something you read with your heart beating faster. Always wondering if one of the children will slip up and give them away. Very good book. I think for older elementary students, this is a perfect book!
I spent years searching for a copy of this book back when it was out of print. I had read it multiple times as a young child and I always wanted to reread it to see if it lived up to its memory. It is the first non-series book I remember reading. It sure left an impression. A great story for the young that exposes them to this terrible time in history without traumatizing them.All ages
This was a really great story. I was sorry that it was so short. I wish that it had been longer, with more fully fleshed out characters and that events that were merely hinted at at the end of the book had been described in full.
Super fast read. About an hour total. The sacrifices the children made are so sweet. I love how one of the boys said, "What's the fuss about? They look just like us!" Exactly. Louis at the end was adorable! Little kids are the best. And it's a true story. Cool.
Well-written for young readers, Twenty and Ten conveys the seriousness of the Nazi occupation in France while not being especially scary or threatening to children just starting to learn about the Holocaust.
This is an excellent short story set during World War II. It is targeted at young adults, Outstanding story, well written, with a great moral.
Age appropriate story about WWII. May be a bit scary for sensitive children. 5+
This little gem was a part of our homeschool curriculum with Sonlight. It was sweet, cute, and heartfelt. We had some suspense and good laughs.
A great quick read to introduce students to the Holocaust. It was easy to lead discussions that made my students connect to the story.
Interesting little story.
What do kids do during a war? Protect themselves & take care of each other! Great book!
