https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1793889.Transit
“Transit” is the perfect title for this masterpiece of refugee fiction!There are so many layers of meaning in that short word, all symbolically integrated in the straightforward, realistic story, mirroring Anna Seghers’ own odyssey during the Second World War.The most obvious meaning, which is the main topic of the novel, refers to a document required of people stuck in Marseille and trying to leave France for America.
The here and now is just as incomprehensible as what happened before, and as strange and undefined as what will come next.“Transit” tells the story of war from the perspective of people who try to get away from it, but are stuck between two worlds in a passive-aggressive no-man’s land.
3.5/5 "You know the fairy tale about the man who died, don't you? He was waiting in Eternity to find out what the Lord had decided to do with him. He waited and waited, for one year, ten years, a hundred years. He begged and pleaded for a decision. Finally he couldn't bear the waiting any longer. Then they said to him: 'What do you think you're waiting for? You've been in Hell for a long time already.' With that in mind, let's look now to that Sartre quote, "L'enfer, c'est les autres," ("Hell is
Finally he couldn't bear the waiting any longer.
World War II, a timeline running roughshod over its hordes of antling men, women, children, accomplishing the phenomenal feat of rendering every tale of terror into one of penultimate banality.
Always the waiting, the inheritance of all those displaced souls fleeing the wreckage of their heaving homeland, the machination of ancestral Pompeiians and modern Syrians alike.Away, away, run far away, and then, perhaps, we'll let you stay, but only you who wants to, what?
Away.To stay, long enough for the comrades in migratory arms to deliver their own tales of endless woe.
"An existential thriller" it says on the back cover and I think that's so, although maybe more existential than thriller.
Which I mean as a compliment.Our unnamed first-person protagonist has escaped from a Nazi concentration camp and is now in Marseille.
He does what, it seems, everyone does in France, going from one café to the next.
(Doesn't anyone actually work in France?) He sees a woman entering each café, searching desperately for someone.
(view spoiler)[You can, if you want, guess whose wife she is.
(hide spoiler)]Every day, and on every page, people are trying to get the Hell out.
It is about crowded Kafka-style bureaucracy which hurts by indifference and its own weight.Our plot centers around the invasion of France in 1940 by the Germans and the routing of the French army, and a young man who escaped from the camps and is trying desperately to flee.
He finds a novel in the briefcase of a dead man, and tries to reunite it with his wife.
The novel is a little bit like a thriller, but is suffocated with fear as well.This is unique in that it is a novel about the Second World War written during it.
So gibt man ihm zu verstehen: „Ich möchte gefälligst endlich verstehen, die Städte seien für mich nicht zum Wohnen da, sondern zum Abfahren.“Und am Ende wird über ihn, der immer noch nicht abgereist ist, gesagt, immer noch in der Annahme es handle sich um den Schriftsteller Weidel: „Denn wissen Sie, er ist ja nicht der Mann, um solche Dinge erst noch zu kämpfen.
Es ist schließlich die Geschichte einer unmöglichen Liebe, und diese Geschichte wirkt gar nicht aufgesetzt, weil sich auch hier die Verlorenheit der Menschen spiegelt, ihre ständige Suche nach etwas und jemand, was nicht auffindbar ist, ein Gefangensein zwischen Bleiben und Gehen.
Es ist heute schwer vorstellbar, dass es während des Zweiten Weltkriegs für die vor Krieg und Faschismus flüchtenden Menschenmassen kaum einen Weg gab, den europäischen Kontinent zu verlassen und Zuflucht in Brasilien, Mexiko, den Vereinigten Staaten oder andernorts zu finden; In Marseille endete ihre Flucht durch Europa, von hier an ging es nur noch für jene weiter, die über Geld oder Beziehungen, am besten über beides verfügten, um eine der raren Schiffspassagen übers Meer zu ergattern.
It required money, visas, sponsoring patrons, something almost unimaginable for international travelers today, transit passes—authorization to travel through each country on the way to the destination—and, most perversely, documentation from point of origin including official verification from authorities from communities people were escaping from like, for example, release from prisons or concentration camps.
I see a certain connection between the characters in Transit and the people of the state among whom Seghers lived and worked.
Twice he has been turned away at the front desk of a hotel where a friend of his stays.
I respect it.After a stay with former friends Paris is no longer safe and with the briefcase and everyone else I flee.
Marseille is where we stop if we have survived.
But would I then survive?I hold onto the briefcase-giving myself some sort of mission in life?
I will use my powers of scheming to get the necessary papers to stay in Marseille.
We scheme to survive.
Scheme each other.There are many forms of death when oppressed.
Toplama kampından kaçıp kendisini Meksika’ya götürecek vizenin peşinde ölü bir yazarın kimliğine sığınan Seidler, Marsilya sokaklarında hayalet gibi dolaşan bir yazar, iki erkeğin kolları arasında nazilerin zulmünden kaçmaya çalışırken aşık olduğu hayaletin peşinde Marsilya’nın kahvelerini, otellerini, elçiliklerini mesken tutan Maria ve tüm bunların arka planında savaşın perişan ettiği vatansız insanlar var Transit'te.
Kendisi de nazi zulmü nedeniyle vatanından ayrılmak zorunda kalan Anna Seghers, Andre Breton, Claude Levi-Strauss gibi arkadaşlarıyla birçok Avrupa ülkesinde transit vize peşinde koştuktan sonra Meksika’ya ulaşabiliyor ve ardından bu zorlu kaçış yolculuğunun yarı belgesel, yarı kurmaca, çok gerçek ve çok hüzünlü hikayesi çıkıyor ortaya.
Transit is about refugees displaced by the Nazi invasion of France holed up in Marseilles desperately trying to collect the exit visas, transit visas, final destination visas, and shipping tickets allowing them to seek safety.
Curiously, he is not that interested in leaving Marseilles (though the Nazis were not long in occupying the city); but his friends an acquaintances are all more or less desperate.
Yazar biraz da kendi serüveninden yola çıkarak okunması iç acıtan, savaşın zorluklarını ve sebep olduklarını müthiş bir şekilde ortaya koyan bir eser yazmış.
Romanın ana karakteri kendini hiçbir yere ait hissetmeyen bir adam.
Böyle bir adamın yaşamının içinde olan biten değişiklikler ve çevresinde etkileşim kurduğu insanlar romanın temelini oluşturuyor.
Birer buluşma noktaları olmalarının yanı sıra , yeni bir hayata geçebilmek için geldikleri yerde belirsiz beklemelere gebe insanlara aslında kucak açıyor kafeler.
“Benim hikayem, küçüklüğümde akşam karanlığında bir türlü uyumayınca anlatılan o karışık masallardan değişik, sadece tozlar, küller ve biraz da anılardan daha başka bir şey.
Jahre und Jahrzehnte galt Anna Seghers TRANSIT als Paradebeispiel deutscher Exilliteratur. Sowohl in der DDR als auch der alten BRD wurde das Werk über Flucht und Flüchtende aus einem von den Nationalsozialisten überrollten Westeuropa in den Schulen gelesen, ein mahnendes Beispiel für das, was nie wieder passieren darf. Nun sind erneut Flüchtlingsströme auf dem Mittelmeer unterwegs und vielleicht kann eine Re-Lektüre des Romans helfen, die Dinge einzuordnen?Ein namenloser Erzähler berichtet uns,
War DAS SIEBTE KREUZ einer der ersten, wenn nicht überhaupt der erste Roman, der die Konzentrationslager der Nazis thematisierte und damit ein Schlaglicht auf die Vorgänge in Nazideutschland warf, zugleich aber auch eine Art Manifest, durchzuhalten und sich der Barbarei entgegen zu stemmen, so ist TRANSIT in gewisser Weise fast ein existenzialistischer Roman, in dem ein junger Mann erkennen muß, daß im Leben Aufgaben sich manchmal von selbst stellen, nicht ausgewählt werden können.
It is in a large waiting room where our narrator tells his story of how he manages to find Weidel's widow and embark on the journey of getting transit papers.What makes Transit remarkable is that it's a journey that Anna Seghers once had.
Much of the time I wondered who is real in this novel and who is a figment of Seghers imagination.The characters in Transit are uniquely and vividly described.
At times the narrator projects his feelings and attitudes towards that person when describing them to the refugees listening in on the story.
The nameless narrator of Anna Seghers' Transit is on the run having escaped a work camp.
He is trying to escape the war in Europe by emigrating, and the novel tells the story of mistaken identity, bureaucratic frustrations, and the multifaceted landscape of Marseilles at the beginning of the Second World War. Weidel, who our narrator is on his way to deliver a letter to, dies with coveted transit documents in a suitcase containing the manuscript of his last work.
Weidel's estranged, ex-wife is in Marseilles and our narrator decides to travel there, maybe to deliver the papers and passes but maybe also to use them to get himself out of France.
Our hero is taken by the manuscript, so much so that he takes the authors name on his own quest for visas, and falls violently in love with his wife, in town looking for a way out with her new boyfriend, a sympathetic and virtuous doctor.
So much of our identity is about where we are from, and this book watches as these people lose it all, though at the same time they can still live their life, even if it is to chase a visa, chase a girl, and have another pizza and slice of rosé.
Streams of refugees arrived there clamoring for exit visas and transit visas and berths on the few ships leaving for the western hemisphere and safety.
This novel follows 3 such refugees as they try to escape the war.This is described as an existential novel.
And an image that won't go away is from our current broadcast news, the scenes of desperate refugees fleeing the Middle East and streaming across Europe.
How many Charons are there guiding those rubber dinghies to slide up on the Greek shore?This is a good novel.
I read this for Academic Decathlon 2016-17. It was... it was okay, i would not read it for fun. I myself thought it was kind of predictable in a lot of areas. Just glad to be done!
Set in 1940 Marseille and written in 1942 before the war's end, this novel offers an interesting perspective of World War II, much like Suite Française by Irène Némirovsky.
This book is a mix of the movie Casablanca, Albert Camus's empty existentialist narration, a case of deliberate misidentification and the crushing and ironic weight of bureaucracy.
The three main characters include the narrator Seidel, a dead writer named Weidel, and his widow Marie (although Marie doesn't know he's dead).
Hopeless desperation and idle hours waiting in lines for appropriate documentation abound.
It's not an exciting book, but it is tense and anxious.
Bizim köye festival uğramadığı için festivalin en çok övülen filminin kitabını rafta sırasını bekleyenler arasından en öne çektim. Kıskançlığım birazcık yatıştı. Kitabı okurken kafamdan geçen düşünceler; kimse yerinden yurdundan en büyük zenginliği olan evinden toprağından olmamalı, olmasın. Kimse mülteci etiketini sırtında taşımak zorunda kalmasın. Dünya bu kadar kötü olmasın artık lütfen... Tüm kitap boyunca romantik ve gerçek dışı dileklerimi kafamdan silemedim.
Great book! Partially written during time when she was stuck in Marseille herself, so it has an element of truthfulness that is felt troughout the entire story. Also, written before her GDR-period so not annoyingly propagandistic like some of her later writing. To me, rich contemplation on "identity" and "truth"! As a German, also like the exotic element.
Its narrator is a man attempting to flee Germany during the throes of Nazism, as he waits in the narrow zone of unoccupied France for paperwork to be processed.
It's even harder to read because, though systems of refuge and asylum have transformed in the decades since WWII (or, more properly, have come into existence since that time - the characters of Transit are figuring out some cobbled-together pathway of visas and passport stamps, but, famously, no nation had any structure in place to help those who fled before and during WWII, and the structures now in place where created largely because of the horror of that crisis), they are no less reliant on bureaucracy.
A byť Casablancu miluju, tak s Anne Seghers jsme si do noty příliš nepadly.Knížka zachycuje vyprávění hlavního hrdiny, který se snaží utéct před nacisty - nejdříve z Německa, pak z internačního tábora ve Francii a nakonec snad i z Francie (ale to vlastně neví ani hrdina).
Váhala jsem mezi dvěma a třemi hvězdičkami, nakonec tři, ale opravdu o fous.Kontext: Když už mi to tak tu Casablancu připomínalo, tak jsem si ji musela pustit - ten film je prostě úžasný.První věta: "Loď "Montreal" se prý potopila mezi Dakarem a Martinique."Poslední věta: "Spíše přejde mne čekání naž ji hledání mrtvého, jehož nelze nalézt."
Anna Seghers was a German communist who escaped the Nazi regime on the same boat that took Victor Serge to Mexico, fictionalizing her nightmarish escape from Europe in this beautiful, searing, tragic novel.
Seidel is a strangely upbeat German everyman, who escapes from a concentration camp and makes his way to Marseille, joining a vast crowd of refugees, desperate to escape the tangled bureaucracy and the coming certainty of death.
Amid this chaos Seidel finds a curious balance, stemming from his peculiar indifference towards his fate, until a romantic obsession unspools him.
Beautiful, brilliant, tragically of the moment, given our own horrific, inhumane immigration policy.
Indeed, in this fiction we can learn important lessons and gain new perspectives on the challenges that continue to face us today.Anna Seghers' novel draws on her own experiences as a refugee from Germany in the 30s, when simply existing as a person was a crime and crossing borders for freedom (and basic survival) was a Herculean task that could lead to capture, murder, or suicide.
Transit is narrated by a man who has escaped a Nazi concentration camp and is seeking simply to live a life of peace in France.
"Η οχλαγωγία του έφτασε στα αυτιά μου σε πολλές γλώσσες: για πλοία που δε θα έφευγαν πια, για πλοία που έφτασαν, που ναυάγησαν, που επιτάχθηκαν, για ανθρώπους που ήθελαν να υπηρετήσουν τους Άγγλους ή τον Ντε Γκωλ, για ανθρώπους που έπρεπε να επιστρέψουν πάλι στο στρατόπεδο για πολλά χρόνια ίσως, για μητέρες που είχαν χάσει τα παιδιά τους στον πόλεμο, για άνδρες που έφυγαν κι άφησαν πίσω τις γυναίκες τους.
Πανάρχαιο καινούριο κουβεντολόι του λιμανιού, φοινικικό και ελληνικό, κρητικό και εβραϊκό, ετρουσκικό και ρωμαϊκό.
Restos de ejércitos agotados, esclavos fugitivos, ríos de personas expulsadas de todos los países, que finalmente llegaban hasta el mar, donde se lanzaban sobre los barcos para descubrir nuevos países de los que volvían a ser expulsadas; todos huyendo de la muerte, hacia la muerte».Parece que hemos olvidado aquel tiempo, no muy lejano, en que eran los puertos de nuestro viejo continente los que estaban atestados de gente ansiosa por partir, dejando atrás los horrores de la guerra pero también aquello que se ama: el hogar, los seres queridos, la propia historia.
This is not simply an author's interpretation of how they think refugees felt as they strove to reach a place where they could be safe and free: these are trials that Seghers herself endured, trials that were still fresh in her mind when she wrote this novel.
Much of what the narrator felt were emotions Seghers herself experienced.That said, there is little else that makes this book worth reading.
Such blind devotion makes it difficult to realistically accept the political opinions she implicitly expresses in this novel), Transit is definitely not a book I would recommend to someone who enjoys real literature.
As a little boy I often went on school trips.
The trips were a lot of fun, but then the next day out teacher assigned us a composition on the subject, ‘Our school trip’.
And when we came back from summer vacations we always had to write a composition: ‘ How I spent my vacation’.
And even after Christmas, there was a composition: ‘Christmas’.
And in the end it seemed to me that I experienced the school trips, Christmas, the vacations, only so that I could write a composition about them.
A man who was a German citizen somehow ended up in a concentration camp via France.
The Germans were coming but only would've thrown him back in another camp since he has already been one, so they escaped when the French soldiers were leaving.
This is definitely a need to read book as it will inform you of all the twisted lives people had during that time.
The plot twists in this book made your head reel in confusion but once you figured it out, it was great.
"Bir gün bir insan kalıntısını yerden kaldırdıkları gibi yanımıza verdiler. Adamcağızın kolları ve bacakları yoktu. Aramıza sıkıştırdık, bir sigara yakıp dudaklarının arasına soktuk. Ağzını buruşturdu, homurdandı ve birden yüksek sesle ağlamaya başladı:'Hiç değilse bilseydim çektiğim bu eziyetlerin nedenini!' Kendimizi tutmasak bizler de hüngür hüngür ağlayacaktık." Sf: 48
