https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136782.Stormbreaker
Q: You're never too young to die.
(c)I have been reading it, in minuscule installments, since when the universe was still young and hot and the dinosaurs were frisky yet.
A glutton for cheese, maybe?This is cheesy enough to need a cheese cutting wire.
Very thoughtful on the part of the author, cheers!Q:It was only the glint of the sun and the sight of the grass slicing itself in half that revealed the horrible truth.
The two cyclists had stretched a length of cheese wire between them.
The cheese wire whipped over him.
If he had still been standing up, it would have cut him in half.
I grew up with a fascination with spies, most likely triggered by the amazingly entertaining TV show “Totally Spies” I used to watch repeatedly with my brother.
He is a reasonable person, but one who does not hesitate to put himself in danger if it means saving lives in the process.
I love this book (and Alex) partly because my fascination with spies is still awake somewhere inside me and partly because it is so damn fun.
Spies belong to the fictional world more than they do to the real world anyway.
I read this book because it is so popular with my students.
My elementary students like the books.
I think the first one (I cannot testify for the rest of the series as I haven't read them) is full of all the things that I do not want to promote in the collection for which I am responsible: violence, consumerism, and a disrespectful protagonist.
However, kids who don't like to read will read Alex Rider.
Or do I continue to buy and shelve books like the Alex Rider series and Wimpy Kid series which are immensely popular but set bad examples for their audience?
This book is about a boy named Alex Rider, who has been a regular boy all his life until he is called by M-16, the British secret service, to be on a secret mission to investigate a computer called the Stormbreaker.
That computer makes M-16 very suspicious because hes sending one Stormbreaker to every school in England.
That is one of the thigs that makes the book so great.
This is one o the best books I've ever read, an i would suggest that you should read it along with all of the other Alex Rider adventures in the series.
One of the greatest spy books I have read, I saw the film on TV and wanted to read the books.
The book was better although I used the image of Alex in the books, it helped.
I now read much more book, I like the Alex Rider series, the Jason steed series and I have just started reading Cherub series.Alex mum & dad are dead he lives with his uncle.
His uncle Ian Rider takes him all sorts of adventure holidays and also gives him karate lessons.
What Alex does not know is that he is actually being trained to be a boy spy.
It happened with the Pendragon books, it'll happen here too, yeah?And then everything after those pages was complete nonsense.
But before I go into large-scale issues, I'd like to mention that these are the paragraphs that immediately set me against this book:"'We can't just send in another agent .
So I'm going to tell you everything."Wooooow.This is great literature right here.It's like Horowitz is trying to reinforce the assumed notion: oh kids are only interested in violence and action and BOOMS!
He's trying to trick his readers into thinking something epic is happening when it's really something trivial.I'd advise everyone against reading this book.
With this plot it has to be, and that's the other problem.I just couldn't get my head around a 14 year old super spy.
To be honest though as I said below in a conversation, when I was 14 (and heavily into The Man From U.N.C.L.E., James Bond and other "spy-fi") I'd probably have loved it.So, there is some good action writing here, some daring-do with our young hero at the heart of it and so on.
The writing isn't bad and I suspect that younger readers will eat this up.
For years, I have been hearing shouts, whispers, and raves about Alex Rider.
Stormbreaker is book one in Anthony Horowitz’s action packed series.
Fourteen year old, Alex Rider stumbles into the spying world after the death of his uncle.
One of my favorite parts was the way he talked himself down from panic—“he couldn’t make an enemy of his imagination”.
Both Alex and the big bad guys—especially Mr. Grin!--made me smile and cheer.
A fun, Bond like adventure that had me flipping pages faster and faster.
At around 150 pages, I thought to myself—This is fun, but I don’t see myself continuing on with the series.
My son loved this book and so I promised to read it too.
It is a nice fantasy with plenty of spy craft and exciting chase scenes and a pretty evil villain.
My kid loved the action and suspense at the end of each volume and wanted me to give it 5 stars.
I'll appease him by giving it 4 because I think that perhaps, in a few years, he will be able to read the Smiley books or the James Bond ones and see how real spy stories are written.
All the way back in 2007, I randomly decided to borrow the audiobook version of this book from my local library.
Still, when I listened to this book, I was enthralled, and soon sought out the rest of the series, mostly via the 'berries in my area.That was years ago; though I read the newer volumes a few years ago, I figured: Why not start from the beginning?
Maybe I'm just a kid at heart, but, I had a blast with this one...and I can't wait to read the sequels (again!)
চৌদদ বছর বয়সক অযালেকস রাইডারের জীবন রাতারাতি বদলে যায় চাচা ইয়ান রাইডারের মৃতযুর সাথে সাথে। ছোটবেলায় বাবা-মা কে হারানোর পর চাচাই ছিল তার সব। গাড়ি দুরঘটনায় চাচার মৃতযু হবার পর, অযালেকস বুঝতে পারে, এতদিন তার কাছে সতয লুকিয়ে রাখা হয়েছে। ওর চাচা ইয়ান রাইডার কোন সাধারন বযাংক করমকরতা নয়, বরং সিকরেট সপাই এজেনসি MI-6 এর একজন গুরুতবপূরণ সদসয ছিলেন। তার মারা যাওয়াটা নিছক দুরঘটনা নয়, পরিকলপিত হতযাকানড।  সাধারন এক সকুল পড়ুয়া কিশোরের পরিচয় পেছনে ফেলে অযালেকস রাইডার কে ঘটনাচকরে বাধয করা হয় সপাইয়ের জীবন বেছে নি
হ্যারল্ড সেলের আবিস্ক্রিত সুপারকম্পিউটার স্টর্ম ব্রেকারের জয়জয়কার সারা বিশ্বব্যাপি। দে্শজুড়ে প্রত্যেক স্কুলে স্টোর্ম ব্রেকার স্থাপনের সিদ্ধান্ত নেয়া হয়েছে। তবে বিখ্যাত হ্যারল্ড সেলের প্রতি সিক্রেট এজেন্সি MI-6 এর খুব একটা ভরসা নেই। কিছু একটা ঝামেলা তো আছেই। স্কুল পড়ুয়া বাচ্চাদের ভেতর থেকে অনলাইন প্রতিযোগিতার মাধ্যমে একজনকে বেছে নেয়া হয়, যে কিনা হ্যারল্ড সেলের ব্যাক্তিগত ফ্যাক্টরিতে গিয়ে নিজ হাতে স্টোর্ম ব্রেকার অপারেট করতে পারবে। MI-6 এর পরিকল্পনা অনুযায়ী ভোল পাল্টে অ্যালেক্স রাইডার ঢুকে পড়ে সেখানে। বের হয়ে আসে একের পর এক অজানা তথ্য। শুধু চাচার মৃত্যুর সাথে সম্প্রিক্ততাই নয়, পুরো বিশ্ব আজ হুমকির মুখে। সিংহের খাচায় পা দিয়ে তার বিরুদ্ধে লড়াইয়ে নামার যৌক্তিকতা কতটুকু?
It was hard for the group to come up with something to discuss during our meetings because the book is totally plot driven.
There's not much wrong with being a plot driven thriller, but that doesn't really work well for discussion.The other big problem I had with the book is that the main character seems so emotionless.
Alex Rider seems more interested in finding out why his uncle didn't buckle his seat belt than he is in having a real emotion.
For that reason, I find it hard to cling to anything real in the book.
Actual rating: 3.5 Not so much excited as I expected..
It's good story, it's mainly for the readers at 14 but I enjoyed it nevertheless..
And I'm going to read the rest of the series soon.The story is about Alex who is 14 yrs old, he lives with his uncle, but one day the police came to his house to tell him that Ian-his uncle- died from a car accident because he didn't put the seat belt but Alex knew that Ian would never forget something like that so he gets curious about his uncle's death and here where our story begin
যদিও ইয়াং এডালট বই কিনতু একটু ভিননতা আছে, কারণ এই বয়সের পরোটাগোনিসটদের নিয়ে সাধারণত যে বইগুলো হয় তার বেশীর ভাগই ফযানটাসী। কিনতু এটা পুরা সপাই থরিলার। :) পুরা জেমস বনড সটাইল এ মারামারি, থরিল, কমিক ভিলেন দরকারী সব উপাদান ই আছে পরিমাণ মত। তবে আমার কাছে এলেকস রাইডার কে একটু ঠানডা ঠানডা মনে হয়েছে। হিউমর কম। অবশয MI6 এর একজন এজেনট এমন ই হবে। ঘটনা হল, বই এর শুরুতেই এলেকসের চাচা যে কিনা একজন সপাই সে মারা যান, তার যায়গায় নিরুপায় হয়ে যোগ দেয় এলেকস। ঘটনাকরমে কেচো খুজতে গিয়ে সাপ বেড়িয়ে আসে আর শেষ মেষ এলেকস
যদিও ইয়াং এডাল্ট বই কিন্তু একটু ভিন্নতা আছে, কারণ এই বয়সের প্রোটাগোনিস্টদের নিয়ে সাধারণত যে বইগুলো হ
This book was written very well, I liked every part of it especially Twelve O'clock part because it has a lot of action and exciting events that make you happy, exciting and anxious to know what will happen to Alex.
The ending is also exciting because it leads you right into the next book with a good feeling.At the end of the review, I want to share with you my favourite quote from the Stormbreaker that is "Whoever this man was, he seemed to have less life than anyone in the cemetery.
Now, I feel exciting and I want to take a part in fighting to be just like Alex Rider.
The main character Alex's uncle (who is mentioned a lot) is mentioned as Ian Rider every, single time.
Alex does mention that he didn't want to be called Uncle, but who calls their uncle "Ian Rider." How about just Ian?
Ian Rider's boss and enemy also call him Ian Rider.
Only one character with no tongue who therefore can't properly pronounce the name calls him anything different.3).
There were several times when both my son and I said, "What a convenient plot twist." Essentially, it is what it is, a spy book written for middle grade boys.
It was pretty much exactly what I expected to be: one of those cool adventure stories intended to hook reluctant tweenage boy readers.
And although I am not a reluctant tweenage boy reader, I still found it entertaining.
Is this book a deep exploration of human nature and the meaning of life?
What matters is that this book wasn't intended to be intellectual; it was intended to be fun, and that's all that it was.
The whole thing is pretty cliché, and the whole "evil plot" is pretty dumb.
Now I'm going to create an evil computer to give all the little English schoolchildren smallpox!
Still can't really explain why I like these books - Horowitz's target audience is clearly 14 year old boys who don't read much.
I guess it's because I'm a James Bond fan, and the Alex Rider series could have been retitled "007 - The Middle School Years." Seriously, the plot of every book is a carbon copy of a classic Bond film: there are crazy gadgets, weird villains with even weirder plans for world domination, drawn-out attempts to kill Alex (in Stormbreaker, he gets thrown in a tank containing a giant jellyfish), lots of high-speed chases, and even the required Bond-girl character is present in Alex's friend/potential love interest, Sabina Pleasure (I wish I was kidding about her name.
Where it fell down for me though was in also importing the dismissive sexism and xenophobic stereotypes that characterise the adult spy genre.It’s not so much offensive as it is simply lazy – the assassin is Russian, the evil sidekick is a German woman, the bully during Alex’s training has a ‘funny foreign accent’ (though I expect we’ll be seeing him in future books as a goody), and the big-bad is a short, fat, ‘slimy‘ middle-eastern man with eyes like frogspawn who eats dog-meat.
This book is fiction and the main character is Alex Rider who is a fourteen year old boy who is very fit and living a good life in London.
At the very start of the book, Alex finds out that his uncle just died in a car accident and didn’t wear his seatbelt.
After tons of trouble and almost near death Alex finds out that the computers had poison in them and you would die when you turn them on.
I liked the book because Alex keeps getting into trouble but always finds a way out.
Following the death of his spy uncle, Ian Rider, 14 year old Alex Rider is recruited into the MI6 to complete his mission.
For use in the classroom I feel it would be a good book to have at hand to get the boys reading, furthermore the gadgets mentioned in the book can be the basis for children to design and make their own mock ups.'Stormbreaker' is most certainly a book aimed towards boys, and it's simplicity is easy for even the most reluctant readers to follow and it might even spur them on to continue with the Alex Rider series.
This book if a fiction book about a fourteen year old boy named Alex Rider.
Alex is a normal school boy in London who lives with his uncle.
Towards the beginning of the book, Alex is told his uncle died it a car accident.
Alex later finds out his uncle died from gun shots when he was on a secret mission.
I enjoyed most of the book because of how throughout the whole book there is action and scary situations for Alex.
I can relate to Alex because he is a 14 year old boy who likes adventure just like me.
It was very fast paced with a lot of action and mystery, although the villain monologue while the hero is tied up without killing him straight after was a bit cliche and it felt like Alex didn't really mourn over his uncle's death.
I honestly didn't anticipate the outcome of the mystery and the way it was stopped was very interesting.
I'd been wanting to read this series for years but I never got my hands on it until now, and since it's written for people younger than me, the emotional side is a little stunted, but it's just a small problem inside an amazing book.
Can't wait to read the next one.
The main character in this book is Alex. He was told that his grandfather was killed in a car accident, but he then finds out he was gunned down in his car. He also finds out that his grandfather was killed because he was a part of a top secret mission. I like this book because this book has a little bit of adventure and mystery.
This book reminds me of my childhood. I used to LOVE things about spies and secret organization stuff. My sister and I used to play "Steal the Candy" or "Whack the Dad in the Stomach Without him Noticing Us" or "Scare our Mom so She Drops the Glass" We liked sneaking around the house even though we were not sneaky. Now I think back, we probably looked really dumb. But in the book, Alex Rider is killing people with jellyfish and jumping out of planes instead of whacking his dad and stealing candy.
Alex was now 16 and had recently lost both of his parents in a plane and was now living with his uncle Ian Rider.
Ian Rider was a banker but Alex had soon figured out that his uncle was not being completely truthful to him.
Alex Rider is recruited by the MI6 to go on an undercover mission to find out what Herod was working on.
I think this was an overall good book, it really made me feel what it was like to be an undercover agent.
In my opinion no fourteen year old could stop a terrorist the way that Alex did in this book.
Personal Review: This story reminds me of Ian Fleming’s 007 except with a younger spy.
This review did a great job of getting the person excited about reading the book but not giving too much of the plot away.Kirkus’ reviews starts off with the question: “What if James Bond had started spying as a teenager?” I think that this is a great way of hooking younger and maybe even older readers into this story.
I think that review makes a great comparison of this story and it really does a great job of describing some of the action pieces of the story.
ok must resist).Where was I ah yes this is the first in a series of book which charts the exploits of a seemingly normal school boy Alex Rider who is destined to much more.
The series runs in to numerous titles (there are 9 titles of Alex's exploits) and has recently returned with a leaner darker edition (which I have yet to get).But this book although aimed at the teenage audience I think is so well written that it does not feel like it.
To that end I think that the villains and set pieces are more impressive in the book (yes I will admit I am biased book over film every time).
The book is entertaining, and it's great for reluctant readers, I'm sure I would've seen more bookstores and less Gamestops if I'd known about these as a kid.
He wants to be normal, but he also wants answers for his uncle's death so that naturally pushes him into taking on another child's identity to infiltrate the home of a suspicious man who's donating countless of the most advanced computers (Stormbreaker) the world has ever seen to schools everywhere.The ending of this book was just a great scene though, I definitely see myself picking up "Point Blank" in the near future.
Then maybe "Eagle Strike" if I can see past the red cover.
So, i was quite excited when i found out there was a book.
I loved the movie, so of course i had to read the book.Well, i can say i didn't got disappointed.The book was fine, but it's not like it was horrifying, or filled with big emotions.
But perhaps it was because i read the translated edition, and not the original book, so i won't put that on the author; He couldn't know his words would sound so stupid in Danish.But it's not like i hated this book.
I enjoyed it, and i'll definitely keep reading it, because i have faith in this book.
