https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53101.Nightwood
Not really sure how Barnes feels about him - she spends a lot of time with him, such an elaborate backstory, so that's something (although I hate all the derogatory Jew crap, 'Jews are like this, Jews always think this way' - bogus, and the only thing that is boring in Nightwood).
Barnes seems more interested in the Robin-Nora-Jenny triangle.
But he barely counts in their lives, his poor sad son becomes his life, a son who is all need and reaching towards some kind of meaning, something to define him.
The outsized characters who inhabit this world are some of the most memorable in all of fiction—there is Guido Volkbein, the Wandering Jew and son of a self-proclaimed baron; Robin Vote, the American expatriate who marries him and then engages in a series of affairs, first with Nora Flood and then with Jenny Petherbridge, driving all of her lovers to distraction with her passion for wandering alone in the night; and there is Dr. Matthew-Mighty-Grain-of-Salt-Dante-O'Connor, a transvestite and ostensible gynecologist, whose digressive speeches brim with fury, keen insights, and surprising allusions.
”’You know what man really desires?’ inquired the doctor, grinning into the immobile face of the Baron. ‘One of two things: to find someone who is so stupid that he can lie to her, or to love someone so much that she can lie to him.’” Baron Felix is a man of pretenses. He is not really a baron at all, but his father had perpetrated the deception his whole life so Felix’s filial legacy is to carry on the social duplicity. ”He kept a valet and a cook; the one because he looked like Louis the Fourt
”’You know what man really desires?’ inquired the doctor, grinning into the immobile face of the Baron.
Baron Felix becomes enamored with a beautiful American named Robin Vote.
If Felix were observing more carefully and not blinded by the aurora borealis of infatuation, he may have noticed that Robin is not really interested in anything but having a good time.
It is hard to feel sympathy for him, but at the same time he is left nearly shattered by Robin leaving him.
Robin is the truly destructive force in the novel, whose beauty is a 
From the start, an overwhelming sense of dread and despair pervades Nightwood: Barnes alternates between entrancing readers with the novel’s ethereal prose and jerking them awake with moments of unspeakable torment. In spite of the pain that structures the novel, though, the character of the (fake) Doctor provides much needed comic relief in each of Nightwood’s eight short sections.
Musica pura.Il suono dà l’idea di buio notturno, di veleno, e di notte e di foresta, ed è duro, nel senso di corposo, semplice eppure singolare: così definiva la scelta del titolo la Barnes in una lettera a un’amica amante.Poi, certo, se si vuole è anche un manifesto LGBT, è uno dei romanzi più sperimentali della storia, o uno dei primi.
I want to fly.For that is the talent trapped within these pages, and if you forced me at gunpoint to encompass it with a single word, I would say metaphor.
The worst of it is the words that we think we know and therefore treat as fact when really, metaphor.
Djuna is the god, the doctor is her prophet, and we are at the base of Mount Sinai in defiance of the morals to be decreed and the history of persecution to come.
For we are prophesied to by the doctor from Djuna in ways strange and unfamiliar, for the meaning is too large for simple statement.
The happy household they form in free-spirited Paris of the 20s does not last as soon the greedy and homely American Jenny Petherbridge, rich from a sinister line of four dead husbands, gets Robin in her talons and sweeps her off the U.S. We spend a lot of time commiserating with Felix and Nora in the wreckage left behind.
Bitter complaints of overly baroque language, old fashioned concerns with ancestry, and a story where "nothing happened." Folks were pissed.
There's a level of psychological insight into the characters here that's astounding - coupled with Barnes setting an almost unknowable anti-heroine at the dead center of the story, serving as a sort of swirling black hole.
While at first the book seems to play like a series of portraits, the cohesive structure slowly reveals itself.
It's a story where little might happen on the surface, but there's simultaneously too much to take in on one reading.
And of course it's a love story.
Many of the reviews of Nightwood on this website seem to reflect the same sentiment, 'how do I even review this?' I often think this is a bit of a cop-out review but in the case of Djuna Barnes' Modernist novel from 1936, utter disorientation seems to be the most fitting response.A novel generally follows a basic plot with some semblance of a structure and often has one main character.
The book forgets about him and Robin Vote becomes the main character.
Then Doctor Matthew becomes the main character.
Nightwood is a damned fearsome book.
It is a crazed electric monologue through the intimations of secret love and the creeping monsters that lurk in nightmares.
I am obliged to quote T.
S. Eliot's introduction and say that this is a book suited for those with "sensibilities trained on poetry".
This is not just from the beauty of Barnes' prose style, but the meaning and insinuation dripping from every word.
Love is seldom sappy here, but an intensely sharp and painful thing.At the beginning, Djuna lapses into dull stereotypes about Jews.
Still, Nightwood is an entrancing book, an intense and rapid burn.
___________The Dalkey Archive has produced a beautiful critical edition of Djuna Barnes'Nightwood, salvaging from the censors that material which T.S. Eliot and Emily Coleman thought might doom the book to perpetual non-publication.
Plumb has returned to Barnes' three original typescripts, Barnes' letters to friends and editors, and all editions of the work from 1936 to 1995 to produce a version of Nightwood which is as close as possible to what Barnes would have had published had she the freedom then of her reputation now.
"We are but skin against a wind, with muscles clenched against mortality."The language of this novel is outstanding.
The plot is the easy part:Woman marries dude, has his child, leaves him for another woman, leaves her for another woman, and everybody is friends with the Doctor.
Not the Doctor, though.What remains in the shadows are Robin's (woman who leaves everybody for somebody else) motives.
And the Doctor's monologues.
So basically everything.But if you're looking for a queer classic novel and truly beautiful prose, this is your book.Find more of my books on Instagram
For me, this is a book that requires a completely new approach to reading.
A sense of strangeness or otherness that is hard to pinpoint, though it is one that makes people fall in love with her rather quickly.
It’s almost like she harbours a perpetual sense of emptiness that she is longing to fill; thus, she goes roaming at night: she goes looking for something.
It’s worth reading up on the see the parallels, and the shadows at the back of the book that suggest that this is, at least in part, semi-autobiographical.
Anche la terra ne ruggisca“Un uomo può odiare ed evitare il male sul proprio piano, ma quando esso è l'orlo sottile dei suoi sogni, egli lo accoglie nel suo cuore come si accoglie nel proprio cuore l'oscuro tormento dell'incubo opprimente, nato e ucciso dalla mente particolare; così se uno di loro morisse di sifilide, si vorrebbe morire allo stesso modo, con due sentimenti, terrore e gioia, ricongiunti chissà dove in un mare informe nel quale affonda piangendo un cigno, che saremmo noi stessi, oppure lei, o lui, o un mistero di tutti”.Di famiglia trasgressiva, con una gioventù di dolore e fatica, modernista tra Parigi e Greenwich Village, poetessa imagista e cattiva ragazza, Djuna Barnes scrive questo testo indelebile e indecifrabile con l'anima sotterranea e la polvere di una preghiera: in una notte metafisica che ospita la furia e l'orrore, prigione di una bellezza incapace di vivere tra bene e male.
[Apr 2017]...After a second reading was compelled to include the missing fifth star.
And this despite not knowing what the hell was going on half (most?) of the time, but by the end I became intoxicated by the sheer absurdity that made me laugh stupidly despite being in public, the unexpected submersions into harrowing despair, the (to blatantly steal Ned Rorem's characterization) "gorgeous claustrophobia" the novel evokes.
Was initially intrigued by Susan Sontag's comment in her journal that her and her friends were essentially characters out of this novel; I wonder now how much of her own romantic sufferings were modeled off of Norah Flood's..."'How do you stand it, then?' she demanded.
It is a great work of Modernism, and was recognised as such by at least one of the Trinity - as T.S.E's editing and introduction make clear, he certainly recognised the importance of the text, despite his over-eager use of the red pen...This book does not need a review from me, it has managed to remain above the earth and no spade-work is required.
If you plan to read it, I would say that the only edition worth getting is the Dalkey and that you do the book and yourself a disservice by reading any other version...
This isn't really because there is no narrative to be found, there is, and what's more, there is a clearly defined romantic conflict between the two main female characters, Nora Flood and Robin Vote.
Although, it's main focus is Nora Flood's complicated and, more or less, unrequited love for Robin Vote.
And as one starts to pay attention to the story, Barnes' overwhelming flood of poetic language dominates the narrative, to the point where they are stunned by the beauty of the sentences and descriptions, not to mention the countless aphorisms spouted by Barnes' characters.
The book was written in 1936 after all & who can really say, even now, that alternative sexuality has found mainstream acceptance!?A note on the ending*Nightwood's ending has puzzled & baffled critcs & readers alike: for character resolution though, the ending has psychological veracity– in her regression to animal-like state, Robin, achieves the primal state which her introduction had promised:She’s “a woman who is beast turning human,” “an infected carrier of the past," and her skin is “the texture of plant life."Many would like to see in her final defiance; her degradation– the erotic subtext of the final scene is hard to miss.
This then is the plot, what little of it there is.Character driven in extremis, ‘Nightwood’ is more akin to a loose compilation of essays which would serve just as well as their own, independent exegis.
Barnes unleashes a whirlwind of speculation, contemplation, meditation and probably other kinds of ‘ations’ I can’t think of now.
We don’t dare nowadays.
Hell, we don’t dare much of anything nowadays: we’re too PCed (read as pissed).
Here, in 'Nightwood', characters find themselves drawn to Matthew O'Connor, a cross-dressing, tortured alcoholic, playing at a doctor, who has both insight and inside scoop, and shovels it out, chapter after chapter, in a stream of consciousness fantasy.As you might imagine, some of this sounded like gibberish; lovely, but gibberish nonetheless:Gurus, who, I trust you know, are Indian teachers, expect you to contemplate the acorn ten years at a stretch, and if, in that time, you are no wiser about the nut, you are not very bright, and that may be the only certainty with which you will come away, which is a post-graduate melancholy--for no man can find a greater truth than his kidney will allow.Or:As for me, I tuck myself in at night, well content, because I am my own charlatan.And people accuse me of being enigmatic.O'Connor is composing a new song:The song is entitled, 'Mother, put the wheel away, I cannot spin tonight.' Its other name, 'According to me, everyone is a kind-of-a-son-of-a-bitch,' to be sung to two octarinas and one concertina, and, ............And if you wondered about racial notions in the 1930s, well, O'Connor shares.
The other intro is an achingly heartfelt and passionate recommendation by Jeanette Winterson.The group of characters is small.
Central is Robin Vote who weaves in and out of the lives of the others; chaotic, destructive, childlike and completely lost.
Nora is Robin's lover; Robin leaves Baron Felix for her.
She attaches herself to Robin to recapture what she has lost (my interpretation) and Robin leaves Nora.
His speech towards the end of the novel to Nora is a tour de force; Winterson argues it is as good as Molly Bloom's soliloquy in Ulysses.
There’s an obsessiveness to it, a desperate desire that you know cannot be fulfilled.
At the center is Robin, a child, a lover, an apparition, she slips through the hands of everyone, even those who loves her desperately.
And Nora, the doomed lover, helplessly waiting for Robin to return, to settle down, knowing it’s not in her nature.
I’m saddened Nightwood is not a more widely known work (or so it seems to me), because it deserves attention, scrutiny, criticism and devoted love.
It’s love, obsession, joy, jealousy, sexuality, wonder, desperation, all the big things in a constantly transforming pattern.
Some of the language is intriguing but at times trying too hard and coming across as pretentious - in the end I can't make up my mind what which aspect of the book I liked enough to finish it.There was only one character (Nora) that drew my attention and it looks like that character is being ridiculed - though I'm not sure whether the ridicule is an expression of Barnes' attitude or an expression of Barnes' view of society's contempt for that character.I'm sure I'll get my head around it at some point.In short, Nightwood is the story of a cast of outsiders in which Nora and Robin take centre stage.
I enjoyed the style and originality of Nightwood, but didn't love it, for two reasons.
The novel feels like a push-back, a response to the status-quo, an attempt to embody some form of modernity.
The second reason, is that I could not connect deeply enough to the characters - especially to the three women - to feel involved in their minds and the inner workings of their relationships.
Maybe, then, the problem is that I read Nightwood only once, or maybe the characters just weren't sufficiently well expressed.
This is an influential novel, but it feels to me frozen in time, and no longer so essential.
Un modernista può essere anche un filo Romantico, occorre dirlo, altrimenti lo stile divente una camicia di forza che imbriglia sia scrittore che lettore.Sulla notte e le sue malìe tanto si è scritto e si scriverà, essendo lo sfondo perfetto per la proiezione delle nefandezze umane troppo umane; come dice il personaggio del Dottore nel racconto della Barnes, provate a immaginare il grande incendio di Roma senza la notte, senza le fiamme che si stagliano contro il cielo nero: di giorno non avrebbe poesia, ma sarebbe anche un fuoco meno mortale, senza mordente, senza artigli.
I think I'll start showing fragments of Nighwood to my students, who mostly only believe in commas, to show them how punctuation adds clarity and tension.He was usually seen walking or driving alone, dressed as if expecting to participate in some great event, though there was no function in the world for which he could be said to be properly garbed; wishing to be correct at any moment, he was tailored in part for the evening and in part for the day.Consider this gem, an extract form the first chapter:Three massive pianos (Hedvig had played the waltzes of her time with the masterly stroke of a man, in the tempo of her blood, rapid and rising - that quick mannerliness of touch associated with the playing of the Viennese, who, though pricked with the love of rhythm, execute its demands in the duelling manner) sprawled over the thick dragon's-blood pile of rugs from Madrid.
Or not so much collapse, as the structures seem never so well-built as to merit the power and finality of a "collapse".
Fitting then that the most impassioned and immediate bits are soliloquies from a great observer and gossip, an extraordinary figure in the modernism of the earlier 20th century, a tragic cross-dressing unlicensed doctor who seems to always be on hand for the key action, and ready to offer some manner of baroquely-wrought interpretation, though usually of such flying grandiosity and peculiarity as to demand close scrutiny and interpretation of its own.
A seductive notion, but no, I feel I didn't even know Nora well enough for this level of intrigue to take hold.)Finally, the ending: against the second-hand action of the rest of the novel, it burns in a devastating, immaculately sullied immediacy.
Üzerine konuşulacak, yazılacak o kadar çok şey var ki, uzun zaman kendime gelemem herhalde. Her bir kelimesinden mükemmellik akıyor!
An interesting story of a fake baron, three women who have affairs with each other, and a cross dressing doctor who rambles endlessly and ties the four other characters together. A favorite of T.S. Eliot and Dylan Thomas although Eliot does say it needs to be read several times.
It follows a love triangle of three women as they pursue each other hopelessly around the world.
Her true love Nora Flood (these are great names) abandons her for some lisping widow, described hilariously: The words that fell from her mouth seemed to have been lent to her; had she been forced to invent a vocabulary for herself, it would have been a vocabulary of two words, "ah" and "oh."Nora is a tortured disaster: "Every hour is my last, and," she said desperately, "one can't live one's last hour all one's life!"And "Can't you be quiet now?" the doctor said.
Now be still, now that you know what the world is about, knowing it's about nothing?"The answer is no.
