https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3655206-the-black-cabinet
This is one of the older Patricia Wentworths that does not involve Miss Silver so it was not reprinted as frequently. Thank you to Dean Street Press for making this and many others available! Here is a link to my review:http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Charmant et désuet. Mais l'héroïne est confondante de naïveté. Un brin agaçante. L'intrigue est gentillette. Surtout dans la première partie. Ambiance proche d'un film de Hitchcock. Ou d'un roman de Daphné du Maurier. Un peu faiblard pour le dénouement.

ExcellentPlot is intricate and characters are individuals. Never dull. I did want robotics down. The characters are fascinating and vary in individuality. The plot kept me guessing and I didn't want . To. Put t down.
So, so! But kept me guessing until the end!
Three and a half stars.Another in the group of long out-of-print books by Wentworth that Open Road is releasing as ebooks.
An enjoyable and suspenseful update of the Bluebeard tale: when empoverished Chloe Dane becomes the sole heir of her family's ancestral estate, she's not sure who she can trust.
Wentworth does a great job here of keeping the reader guessing about who's the villain and who's the hero right up until the end.
This gets off to a slow start, and it took me awhile to warm up to Chloe as the main character, but in the end, it was worth hanging in there.
Danger lurks round every corner!Not a murder mystery, but a pacy, exciting story of love and blackmail. The orphaned heiress works as a dressmaker, unaware that she is being watched and considered as the successor to nefarious deeds. Will she escape? Who can she trust? Two would-be suitors, one of them a wrong 'un, but which one? I loved this Golden Age mystery.
Part of the Golden Age series by Patricia Wentworth. They seem to feature orphaned or otherwise vulnerable females and stung, silent rescuers but they are restful and entertaining. Plus Wentworth writes quite well.
Disons 2,5*, mais avec une chute digne des romances sucrées les plus mièvres. Bon ce roman est toujours meilleur que "Meurtre à Craddock House" qui ne m'avait pas inspiré grand chose.
Ça aurait pu être charmant, c'est hélas ennuyeux
Another enjoyable light read.
