https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/334811.Kildee_House
I did not care for most animal stories when I was a child, and the human aspect of this would have been irrelevant to me. Other children might like it more. I do like it now. And it does not feel, omg, almost 7 decades old. I do recommend it.Now, when I'm on my own, will I relish the peace and quiet? Or will I wish that neighbor children and critters would invade and make my life interesting?
A+ for the house.The other very strong point, and it makes you get why we're in Newbery league, is the way the woods are described -- it's vivid, it's descriptive, it's active so you don't feel like you are reading a long, dry, description of trees, it paints a picture of the environment, including the woodland creatures.
It's in the best of that tradition of children's books capturing the facets of a natural landscape.Speaking of the woodland creatures, though, there is a lot of death in this book.
When Jerome befriends Emma Lou Eppy it piques the curiosity of Donald Roger Cabot and both children often come to visit him.
As the animals multiply and take over Jerome's little house, Emma Lou and Donald Roger work together to find a solution.
My children love animals, so we really enjoyed reading how Jerome lived his life with raccoons in his wood stove and skunks under his bed!I have often daydreamed about what life would be like to live in the wilderness away from technology and surrounded by nature.
Enjoyable easy read about the love of animals despite all the inconveniences they present and peoples changes in attitudes. I really enjoyed reading this and look forward to more from this author.
(Do any of the newer books for young adults have an adult as the main character?)Here, nature takes center stage, right along with Jerome and Emma Lou. By example, the author shows how to appreciate the natural world without destroying it.The main misconception is that raccoons can be easily picked up.
If I hadn't had any close contact with raccoons, I'd be left with the impression that a raccoon is something like a cat when it comes to size and build.p 22: The Eppy house stood in a redwood grove which is known to the romantic-minded as a temple.
We all enjoyed the story of a little old retired man, Jerome, who has built an interesting house against a giant redwood in Northern California.
He ends up sharing his house with a family of Raccoons, and a family of Skunks.
But once he makes friends with Emma Lou, nothing is ever as quiet.
First there is the "Feud" Emma Lou is having with Jerome's other neighbor, Donald.
Will Emma Lou and Donald be able to resolve their enmity and help Jerome find a solution to his housing/animal problems?This was fun people/animal story.
So Fun!

My first experience with this book was through an elementary school literature textbook--one of the chapters was an assignment. Reading the whole novel was enchanting--and the idea of skunks as pets was so novel for one who had only previously seen them as unusually stinky roadkill. Now I think skunks are cute, so I can honestly say this book has been life-changing ;)
This book was so much fun! We weren’t sure about it at the beginning, but we ended up loving the story about Mr Kildee and his animal friends. The ending was very abrupt, though. We would have liked to see that developed a little more.
A lot of descriptive text that I thought would cause my kids (1st and 2nd grade) to lose interest/attention, but they followed along as I read aloud and were engaged. It was a neat look at a simpler way of living...how rich and full life can be without much "stuff." Overall, a good story!
Read this to my kids for school. A somewhat slow and meandering tale of a guy with too many raccoons and skunks in his house. I like the moral of it all and the problem-solving element but it's not a gripping read.
Cute!
A wonderful book filled with larger than life characters. Thoroughly enjoyable as a read-aloud.
So good!
Very good story especially for young person who loves animals.
This was a very sweet story, and all of my kids liked it. The descriptions of the woods and the animals delighted my younger children especially!
Different kid story. Good for girls and boys.
Cute story, but not one I would pick up again.
I had this book on my to-read list for a while because one of my favorite English teachers recommended it.
It's quaint and quiet, featuring charming descriptions of animals like Old Grouch the raccoon and Papa and Mama skunk (all of these creatures are personified to the extent that they have marital spats).
Emma Lou Eppy is also a gem of a character.
I enjoyed her interactions with Donald Cabot, especially her marble slingshot.Except for the obvious love plot between Emma Lou and Donald Cabot (the classic rom-com idea where two people initially despise each other and grow to like each other), I enjoyed Kildee House.
He goes to the forest to live alone, but ends up making many (many) friends, mostly racoons, skunks, a few humans, and some others.I feel you should know going in that there are some very sad moments where creatures die.
They're handled thoughtfully.The book touches on some complex issues such as the line between wild and domesticated, carnivore ethics, and over/under population - and the ending is something to ruminate on.Anyhow, I am very glad I found this book.
Reading the back, I was excited to see this author has written dozens of other books!
I thought that it was a cute and fun book.The story is of an old retired stone-mason.
He decided to build a shack on the side of a Redwood tree on some property he owned in the hills.
He wanted to be a hermit and not have to do or think about anything.
Along comes a girl, and eventually her arch-nemesis who is a boy as well, and helps the old man to have a more enjoyable life.
And they start adopting more animals than they know what to do with.Well, it's a fun book but not too enlightening.
Another recently re-read, the story of Jerome Kildee, a stoneworker who retires to a redwood forest and builds a little cabin right up against a gigantic tree.
Soon the locals discover that he is a nice guy, and willing to share his space--but the locals aren't people, they are raccoons and little spotted skunks, and they move right in!
Jerome befriends Emma Lou Eppy, the only girl in a family of older brothers, and she is entranced by Jerome's lifestyle and his animals.
The wonderfully sweet illustrations by Barbara Cooney fit well with this quiet, well-written story, which may appeal more to adults than to children.
The minute I started reading this book I thought "my boys (4, and 9) would enjoy this".
I started reading it to them and they love it.
However, my oldest daughter (12, Harry Potter fan) had the comment one night after I finished reading, "That book is intriguing but I don't get the point".
This isn't a story that keeps you up late at night reading but one can't help wondering how the raccoon/skunk issue will play out.
I really enjoyed the book and I thought the characters were great.
Read the full review here: http://newberyandbeyond.com/newbery-r...In this book, a man decides to escape his former life by building a home in the midst of the redwood forest.
He then makes friends with a slew of animals, including a family of skunks, a pair of raccoons, some squirrels, and many other woodland creatures, as well as a preteen girl.
The girl and the old man work together to raise the animals and make them comfortable, even as their families continue to grow.It’s a cute idea, and the illustrations were pretty awesome.
If your kid is into animals, they’ll almost definitely enjoy this book.
I found the book slow and a little boring.
The idea of the young girl toting a gun around the woods threatening to shoot the neighbor boy was offensive and came off weird in our culture (the book was published in 1949).
I can see why some people would like it, but to me there's way more books about 1) reclusive people who learn to love, 2) people who love animals or 3) to kids who learn to be friends.
This will not be on my required reading list for my kids.
Let me start off by saying that my son brought this book to me asking me to read it because he had loved it.
So, with that in mind, I'll tell you that I loved it too.
Such a cute little story.
Unrealistic?
(as I've seen mentioned by some reviewers) Of course!
How many children's books can you list that are unrealistic?
I'd be willing to bet more than the realistic ones.
Jerome Kildee didn't like people because he had always dealt with grieving people.
It took moving into the center of 100 acres of redwoods to find those that he loved.
First of all, I want to live in Jerome's house for a week or two (maybe without the animal guests). The description of it is delightful and seems like a terrific vacation spot.I read this sweet, slower-paced story to my boys when they were younger and now again to my 5 year-old daughter. She enjoyed it much more than the boys did -- wanting to know if there was a sequel.
I read this book out loud to the boys a long time ago and have been trying to find it again. I remember it being a very funny story about a man who is trying to "escape" but ends up having to deal with a lot of animals who are intruding on his quiet serenity.
Jerome builds a house in the woods, and though he is a solitary kind of man, he takes in raccoons, skunks and then 2 feuding children. Can they all get along together, and what do you do when the animals start producing multiple young?A Newbery Honor book from 1950, it was good but not "wow."
This is a funny little book about a man who wants to live by himself and become a hermit and a philosopher. But instead he has to learn how to live with the wouldland animals he's become friends with. It's a cute story and an easy read.
