https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7182899-into-the-gauntlet
I must read this book! the 9th 39 clues leaves a good cliff hanger.
I guess I have to add this: the part when everybody, almost everybody, started to doubt THEMSELVES, the ways that they've been doing, the persons that they'd BELIEVED in to be doing GOOD, and THE CLUE HUNT.
ESPECIALLY the part with IAN KABRA (L-O-V-E <3) AND HIS SISTER NATALIE were using their own skills to the very place that they thought they wouldn't use it and against the person who made them learn what they know now.I TOTALLY LOVE THAT PART!another part is the one near the end.
For a kid's/YA adventure book, quite the fitting ending.
The explosive finale to the #1 bestselling series! Fourteen-year-old Amy Cahill and her younger brother, Dan, have had enough. Not only do they have to find the 39 Clues first, they're expected to reunite their backstabbing family - the same people who killed their parents. But Amy and Dan haven't survived explosions and assassination attempts for nothing. They have a plan to finish the Clue hutn on their own terms. Too bad there's a final, fatal secret the Madrigals haven't told them. A secret that could cost Amy and Dan - and the world - everything . . .
Ah the 39 clues is such a fast pace, thrilling, mysterious, alliances and betrayal, exciting twists and turn series.
But I just finished the 9th book yesterday and me and my sister heard the lastBook came out a few days ago.
We COULDNT wait that long.
:D she finished the whole booK yesterday, I finished it all this morning.
It was great - alliances, betrayals, unity an workin together, everyone finally being a family, the madrigals, defeating Isabel, the trust and faith in each other.
It was a great book an I really enjoyed it!
The final of the original 39 Clues series, and in my opinion, the best book of them all.
As they search in London for the final clue, the younger generation of each of the other branches begin to mistrust their parents.
One by one, they begin to decide that they need to join forces, however, there are those that will do anything to stop them - even murder.Probably the most exciting and engaging of all the books.
Very fun, and leaves you with resolution, but excited for the next series.
But they are for now.” So, entretemps, this series has ended but it will definitely continue sometime in the near future.Without giving too much away, here’s what Book 10 reveals: 14-year-old Amy Cahill and her 10-year-old brother Dan are now expected not only to find the 39 clues first, but they are also commissioned to reunite their traitorous family—the same people responsible for their parents’ death.
Even once the reader discovers what the prize at the end of the line is and what it means—power to rule the world—what’s going to happen once it’s discovered and taken possession of?About halfway through the book, the suspense really begins and continues full speed ahead.
Это было отлично.
Это ведь конец, да?
Так к чему же одиннадцатая книга именно в этой серии, а не во второй?
Хотя, очень хочется излить все свои бушующие размышления.
Единственное что, любовная линия как появилась в третьей книге, так там и осталась.
Книги хорошо раскрывают зависимость детей от своих родителей.
Вот читаешь, и понимаешь что все-таки хорошо иметь свою голову на плечах.
Все, бегу читать одиннадцатую (там в соавторах будет Риордан, так что предвкушаю море удовольствия).
Меня немного смущает что у книги аж четыре автора.
Они ее что, в скайпе писали?
Это же до чего додуматься можно было во время беседы.
And I don't care if I die."And she is desprately searching for a weapon, when she grabs the Serum vial and....hits Isabel in the head with the vial.And everyone's is saved!Then, Dan is thinking that with his photographic memory he remembers the recipe for the Serum and that if the others tell him their Clues, they could use the Serum to cure Sinead's brothers.
Loved this book series, my favorite part probably being where all the branches of one large treasure-hunting family comes together to defeat the main bad guy. Overall, I definitely would recommend it because of how amazingly the book pieces together. Although you have to read the first book to understand the next, nonetheless, it was still an amazing book.
This book was really good! No inappropriate language:) I was sad that it's the last book in the series, but the ending was good. A considerable amount of violence, to caution you.Can't wait to start on the Cahills VS. the Vespers series!!
This is the last book in a series, I think. The 10th. So, obviously, a lot has happened. But I really enjoyed this conclusion and the level of "reminders" about previous happenings.
stars: 4.5/5No many words: this saga will stay on my heart.
This is a great youth series with lots of nerdy history tidbits thrown into a worldwide hunt for clues.
Wherever did you get it?" And then behind the woman's back she'd go on for hours about how such a hideous, shapeless old hag could not possibly have picked an outfit any more repulsive than that one." This was a truly funny passage although Ian's mom was not being nice but the contrast between the things she say to someone else and when she talks about them behind their back was hilarious.
I also like the phrase "shapeless old hag", the image in my mind when I picture this is amusing."Dan went on, " I agree that Shakespeare was a great writer.
Especially this one that attempts to inculcate a love or at least an interest in Shakespeare with Dan looking up the many different ways Shakespeare invented insults: "You idiot," Amy muttered.
"But at least I'm not 'pigeon-livered and lacking gall' like you.""More Shakespeare insults?" Amy asked."Want me to go on?" Dan asked cheerfully.
I liked this little dialog between Jonah and Miss Pluderbottom, Iowa school teacher who has "been teaching Shakespeare to high school students in Cedar Grove, Iowa, for the past forty-nine years." -"Yo," he said, rather feebly.
"Wassup?"Miss Pluderbottom narrowed her eyes at him.
Till previous book, each book was equal to one clue.
From previous one, first, branches began to share clues among themselves, now whole family shared their clues.
Actually, all clue hunting was for to reunite five branches as accomplished in this book.
Scenes of family unison with young generation, except Uncle Alistair who was older all of others, was so touching because they understood their parents faults and could see or find the truth.
This book is supposed to be the last one of the 39 Clues series.
Actually it was, with a great ending.
Yet, it was also a beginning to the new and dangerous adventure which requires a united family.
Fantastic! Love this middle grade series. On the whole, the series introduces kids to history and important people. Although it might warp the true facts a bit, I don't mind for the sake of adventure and intrigue.Book 10 is positively epic. I can't imagine what even takes place in the final book of the first 39 Clues series. Guess I'm about to find out though!After reading this one it really got me to thinking. The 39 Clues would make for an awesome movie or TV series. Now wouldn't it?
Excellent plot, not the least bit boring!
A lot of Amy and Dan's relatives took a good look at themselves in this book and decided they didn't like what they seen and while they aren't suddenly a happy family as that would be unrealistic, they do seem to have reconciled some of their family, the main rivals on the hunt have become allies and could become friends in the future, Amy and Dan have succeeded in their mission and it looks like they're finally going to get justice for their parents deaths as Alistair is going to redeem himself by finally coming forward about the events of the night their parents were killed and testify against Isabelle Kabra.
Wrapping up a 10 book mystery is quite a task.
And having to wrap things up caused a lot of points to feel overly simplified, minus some of the depth and emotion I'd come to hope for in this series, if not expect with the revolving door of authors.
Nevertheless, the author did generally capture the tone and wording of the series, brought in and resolved a lot of the previous plot points, and started another mystery as a bonus.
Into the Gauntlet, 39 Clues, is an adventurous book about how two kids, Amy and Dan Cahill, who are nearing the end of their quest to find the 39 clues.
She will do anything to get the secret formula, including trying to kill Amy and Dan Cahill in the worst possible ways, Even shooting her own daughter and threatening her son.
Amy and Dan need to find a way to subdue the evil person standing before them, and the family.I loved the book.
it was exiting on many levels including the fight between the family and Isabel Kabra, who will stop at nothing to win.
So, it was pretty obvious where this was going several books ago, but it was still pretty satisfying to get to the end!
After several books looking at the four original Cahill branches, we finally learn about a Madrigal: Shakespeare!
This leads to a final few chapters worthy of a National Treasure movie!But I'm just...a bit concerned.
Because there's one more book in the main series, and apparently we're not done with things.
And, while I'm glad there's more, I'm a bit concerned over how enjoyable this all could be, without the main series conflict.But I am certainly going to keep reading!
This was a decent end to a long and sometimes enjoyable series.
I did enjoy the human side of the story where the younger generation, plus one old person decide to follow their consciences instead of the past behavior of their elders.
That's par for the course in this series.
But I wish that Haddix had researched her rock climbing sequence a bit better.
And the resolution was a bit too quick and easy.
It's not really the end!
Bum Bum Bum. Do they really think they can keep the interest of readers for another series like this one?
This was such a good book. It has such a dramatic ending. I'm sad that I finished the series now. When they travel to 0 North longitude and 0 West latitude. The pilot says there's only ocean there. His gps does too. But when they reach their destination... They discover an unmapped island. As they travel deeper into the gauntlet along with the other teams. They make peace with the other branches fulfilling the madrigal quest. But will it last. They must all work together under crushing circumstances to take down the evil Isabelle Kabra.
This book was about the brother and sister,Dan and Amy, arriving at the "end" of their quest.
But all of their rival relatives are there.
they all race to find the last clues and some would do anything to obtain it.
The kids uncle gives the recipe for the potion to make someone the most powerful cahill at gunpoint but as the rival woman makes it she is disrupted and it is destroyed.
at the end, everyone gives the recipe to Dan and Amy and they find out everything that ever happened.
it was a very good book, filled with danger and excitement.
A very good ending to the series, though I wonder if there will be more in the future. The option was left somewhat open. I am intrigued to see how they will cram this whole series into next year's movie. That should be fun!
A Quickie ReviewA bit longer and more "epic" than the previous volumes in this series, this installment dishes up the usual thrills. Fans who have read The 39 Clues up to this point should definitely keep reading.Score: 4/5
this is the longest book in the series but it is still very short
Se pueden morir, tenía casi que la mitad de la reseña hecha y se apagó la computadora, no, chao.PD: Agregué tantos liros de golpe porque estaba de vacaciones y no tenía internet aka sufrimiento.
