https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/661059.The_Mask_of_Sanity
Cleckley often mentions how lawyers and judges and police officers have a certain amount of sympathy for the patients he’s worked with; they know these people aren’t quite right because they keep committing idiotic crimes that really have no pay-off, but they aren’t legally insane.
There’s a real sense that everyone involved in dealing with these patients are concerned about them and wanted to help them become better people and citizens and gave them numerous chances to do so (and of course, since they are psychopaths, they always disappointed their benefactors).
At the time this book was written (even with the later fourth edition I read), psychologists don’t know a lot about psychopathology.
Perhaps fortuitously I picked the toughest book I needed to read for this research.
While once the material of this book was important clinical evidence, hearing different unhappy people be unhappy in the exact same way again and again and again becomes hypnotically bleak, and that's all.
To quote Cleckley (if I recall correctly), "He took on the oral role." This after a decent chapter of interesting reasoning about how the reader was not to consider homosexuality a psychological disorder based on scientific evidence of the comportment of homosexuals.
Other acts, all patently senseless but relatively harmless, they do carry out, recognizing the absurdity of feeling that they must do so but becoming anxious if they resist the impulse."In general, psychoneurotic people recognize objective reality and try to adapt themselves like most others to the ways of society."Kindle location 4788-4802"On the contrary, those called psychopaths are very sharply characterized by the lack of anxiety (remorse, uneasy anticipation, apprehensive scrupulousness, the sense of being under stress or strain) and, less than the average person, show what is widely regarded as basic in the neurotic...."....

An immensely useful read for those interested in psychopathy, particularly if you are/were a Psychology/Psychiatry/Criminology student.
Keep in mind that it was originally published in 1941, and you will have to sit through an entire chapter which calls homosexuality a mental disorder.
Barring that, this book is one of the cardinal works on psychopathy, from a pioneer in the field, and it contains tens of detailed cases and clinical considerations from a practitioner who believed that psychopathy should have its own classification and should be dealt with differently by a system which was not equipped to treat this disorder.
Cleckley can write about all the myriad ways circumscribed to scrubbing toilet bowls while somaticizing such tribulations through delineating the less than perfunctory actions required to achieve such immaculate results and still find himself amenable even to the most dyspeptic individual as well as still be considered the pioneer in such a boring field.. entertaining you quite propitiously along the way! His writing style is superb!
I just remembered this book from way back.
I was spurred into this by hearing Dr. Laura -- oh yes, not intentionally tuned in but in passing I heard some discussion of a caller which led me to lissten to her response.
This book was part of her answer -- she said this was the definitive explanation of what a sociopathic personality is.
While not a fan of Dr. Laura -- I am a believer in her answer to that caller and I am a believer in the truth of her praise of this book.
An amazingly outdated yet completely fascinating description of the modern psychopath. With tons of actual case studies, you will not believe what you read here. Truth is stranger than fiction. It's hard to find, and you have to slog through parts, but it is worth it.
Hervey Cleckley is regarded as the father of the field of psychopathy studies.
His first book was published in 1941, and this version of the book is his 1975 revised edition.
He died in 1984, and the last edition of this book came out in 1888.
For any author considering creation of psychopathic characters, this book is a must read.
The case studies alone will be of invaluable aid to accuracy.
Perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of this book is in its latter portions, where Mr. Cleckley observes the character of the psychopath in history and in literature.
I learnt all I can about sociopaths from this book. The case studies were by far the most interesting part of the book. Can be a little dry and it's definitely out dated. Most of the behaviours in this book that point to someone being a sociopath are socially acceptable ways for people to behave today.....so either the book is REALLY out of date or we are living in the era of the sociopath.
a perfect snapshot of how mental health was perceived, observed, treated and studied in the 40s. Suffice to say: mental health terminologies and approaches/treatments are way better now but mental health issues were taken more seriously back then
Interesting to know there's thin line between saint and psychopath.
Another thing I should read because of my psychopathy class.
I couldn't take it anymore so I'm calling it quits on this one, although it sits proudly on my bookshelf at work!
The classic study about narcissistic personality disorder.
Considered a revolutionary study of psychopathy upon its initial publication in 1941, Hervey Cleckley's The Mask of Sanity: An Attempt to Clarify Some Issues about the So-Called Psychopathic Personality offers useful insight into the affliction almost eighty years later.
Given that questions of legal insanity are prevalent in modern criminal trials, these concerns remain relevant today.The most useful part of Cleckley's book is the 200 pages devoted to case studies of psychopathic patients observed under his care.
The cases described in these pages may have no moral compass, but they also lack the foresight required to pursue any far-reaching act of grave consequence.At times however, Cleckley's work offers unfortunate reminders of the era in which it was written.
Still, Cleckey makes some interesting points, for instance regarding the ego-syntonic nature of the pathology (the psycopath is happy the way s/he is) and the way this pathology does not fit in with our notions of "insanity," as psycopaths suffer from no delusions and can be quite rational in some aspects of their lives.
The cases described in the book are, for me, the most interesting part.
The cases allow the reader to find behavioral patterns among the various psycopaths portrayed, and what I appreciated the most is that Cleckey concentrated on "everyday" psycopaths, not murderers or serious criminals.
Gives a good idea of the field of psychiatry as pertaining to the diagnosis of "psychopath" in the 1940s era and has really fascinating case studies & attempts to analyze famous & fictional people.
This being the 1940s, the author does come with his own set of era-appropriate prejudices, though he seems to be on the progressive end for a white man for that era (i.e. he noted that homosexuals, for their deviations, seem to do very well, and possibly better than some heterosexuals, given the social pressures they have to deal with.
The case studies also served as a fascinating example of how much a well-connected, well-off Caucasian male can get away with WITHOUT ending up destitute and homeless in that era.

The book has a very heavy language (not the kind of too much terminology, but of too much words and over-complex sentences).It's a good description of the "psychopathic personality disorder", called this by the author, otherwise (as he explains) it falls somewhere under "antisocial personality disorder".
It's split in four parts - intro, an overview of the patients he studied (about 20 cases), a comparison with other disorders and diseases and a description of the elements of the disorder, and a discussion on some of the unanswered questions (treatment, legal status, etc).
I first heard about this book in a Kurt Vonnegut autobiography.
I read the whole thing just for fun, but it turned out to be more educational than fun.
There were moments in the book that were a bit entertaining, or even close to what I would call "Short stories," or, the personal stories of patients/study subjects of Dr. Cleckley.
My wife just read the book for that one section.
I don't remember everything from the book, but I'm certain to this day that I can still properly correct your mainstream definition of the term "Psychopath"
I expected a rather different book when I decided to read this.
I thought it would afford me some better understanding of the psychopathic personality.
Instead, the author presented many case histories of people in all walks of life who didn't act in ways one would expect from a psychopath, but rather in flamboyant, self-destructive, illegal and bizarre behavior in ways I would think are more often associated with alcohol abuse and/or severe lack of impulse control.
More, in fact, in keeping with my experiences with people with borderline personality disorder.
I am not a psychiatrist, and therefore am probably wrong, but I am disappointed with this book.
I disagree with plenty of the conclusions the author arrives at, and more than a few of the insights, explanations, an descriptions presented. That being said this work has informed a great deal of my own thinking on the complex subject of antisocial/psychopathic/sociopathic behavior, and despite its dry, academic nature I really enjoyed it.Coincidentally, a saw a quote (I'm not sure of its source) just this morning that struck me forcefully:"My mask of sanity is about to slip."That is an absolutely chilling, terrifying quote.
Here's one of the first formal studies of psychopathy, under that name. There are several "flavors" of psychopaths. This one's about psychopaths who are lifetime screw-ups. They just can't get their life together. To the people around them, they're like a bad odor. To themselves, they're just strolling through life, oblivious to the havoc they wreak.I don't think this book is in print, but you might find the PDF online.By the way, I consider sociopaths and psychopath the same thing. It's unclear to me whether I'm correct on this point; but I think I am.
A very interesting read - I learned about how others succeed;I learned what qualities I can embrace, and what qualities I can cast off; and still being a success.Since many of us are not psychopaths, but successful never-the-less - we can understand how to navigate the corporate world; and avoid being harmed by careless, malicious, stupid actions of other.As I read in a very interesting book, back in 2003, habits are like furniture - we can choose decorate out Mind Palace as best suits us - while living well regardless of the motivations and actions of others.
scary. great in-depth research about psychopathology. still salient today. perhaps more than ever because it doesn't mince words and examine rehabilitation. A great companion to "In Cold Blood" by Truman Capote. These were the years when the average American was just starting to find out about the evil lurking out there in damaged people who have no conscience.
Let's get this out of the way: it's outdated. BUT, it's also a timeless masterpiece and one of the first comprehensive works on what the author refers to as "psychopathic personality" or "semantic disorder." Though we of course carry different descriptors at present, this is the foundation upon which it all is built. For anyone interested in forensic psychology, I highly recommend this read.
Amazing Book and a must read for someone who wishes to understand the depth in being human/inhuman. Human is an animal and the line between normal and abnormal is thin, biased and often misleading.
First written in 1941, a seminal work on psycopaths. However, written 1941 = language and social conditions that no longer exist. Available for free on-line as a pdf.
Textbook on the psychopathic personality which includes Cleckley'schecklist of traits currently in use today.
