https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/441559.Eclipse_of_Reason
It seems that even as technical knowledge expands the horizon of man's thought and activity, his autonomy as an individual, his ability to resist the growing apparatus of mass manipulation, his power of imagination, his independent judgment appear to be reduced.
Thus progress threatens to nullify the very goal it is supposed to realize the idea of man.He starts with an explanation of the Objective theory of reason then he explains its decline and the rise of subjective reason, which he gives a few ideological examples for it until we reach pragmatism.
He then explains the effects of the subjective reasoning on the individual and the society, then he ends with his solution to this problem.You can find my complete analysis on my Blog
Bu okul bir diğer anlamda tüm disiplinler ( Felsefe Okulları veya Teorileri) üzerinde, kritik etme görevini üstlenmiş, benim fark edebildiğim kadarıyla, disiplinlerin daha çok ortaya çıkış noktasına değil, bu disiplinlerin diğerleri ile giriştikleri ideolojik çatışmalardan doğan sonuçlar üzerinden eleştiri teorisi geliştirmişlerdir.Kitabın giriş kısmında çevirisi ile Orhan Koçak, yaklaşık elli sayfalık bir önsöz ile bize Max Horkheimer ve Frankfurt Okulu hakkında detaylı bilgi vermiştir.Önsöz ile bu okul hakkında detaylı bilgiye ulaşmış oluyoruz.Okulun Marksizm, Marksist kurumlar ile ve ayrıca kendi içindeki hesaplaşmaları da açıkça öğrenmiş oluyoruz.Kitap içerisinde düşünsel yaşamda araçlar-amaçlar, öznel-nesnel akıl paradokslarını detaylı görebiliriz.
The enlightenment critique of religion was too thorough, and all systems of objective rationality were displaced in favor of liberalism’s ‘tolerance’ for all species.
(To readers of Dialectic of Enlightenment, the trajectory should be very familiar here.) “Subjective reason conforms to anything” (25), exemplified by chattel slavery in the US.During subjective reason’s course, “the concept of the nation became a guiding principle,” tending “to displace religion as the ultimate supra-individual motive in human life” (19).
Not a problem if we are all happy enlightenment liberals; but if industrialists “find it useful to set up a dictatorship and abolish majority rule, no objection founded on reason can be opposed to their action” (28-29).
Este libro no es una simple reacción ante el holocausto, sino que una reflexión profunda sobre la razón que nos está llevando, sobre todo en los días de hoy, a la barbarie nuevamente. No niega la razón para rescatar viejas supersticiones, sino que busca rescatar la razón para los humanos y un mejor porvenir.
Horkheimer present three kinds of reason: objective, subjective, and instrumental.
This kind of reason eliminates the individual for the furtherance of the social system.Horkheimer prefers objective reason out of the three because it doesn't just seek domination of nature, but also understanding.
Instrumental reason I think treats people according to means and not ends as objects not autonomous subjects.
To forward Marxism, one has to relentlessly criticize western culture which gave rise to capitalism but also to objective reason which Horkheimer and the Frankfurt school undermined.
Here's some of what I got out of it.In this book Horkheimer examines how reason, once used to identify societal goals such as truth, justice, and freedom, has become instead divorced from its objective roots and is now a subjective tool used to justify any particular means and ends regardless of their nature.
However the urge to express these feelings remains beneath the surface, resentful, and often reemerges in the form of persecution of other people—people so othered that they are perceived as sub-human and therefore “nature.” Therefore fascism represses nature while also exploiting people’s rebellious tendencies towards that repression in order to cause further subjugation.(Horkheimer also notes however that the transition from objective to subjective reason, while detrimental in its current state, was necessary to historical progress.
This book is as good an analysis of what came before it as it is a prophecy for what would come after.
Horkheimer's central premise—that, after the Enlightenment, reason's divorce from any sort of objective, divine premise inevitably gave way to its instrumentalization—is something that should be apparent to anyone alive in 2018.
It's packed with insight and self-awareness (he knows writing a reasoned case against the misuse of reason is a precarious walk), and Horkheimer comes off more as a critic of all dogmatism than a proponent for any type of his own.
In other words, for a critical theorist, he fulfills his role perfectly.
Horkheimer believes that virtually every element of society is suffering from the glorification of subjective reason as the only reason, which leads, he believes, to the inevitable descent into relativism, which in turn undermines the meanings of every action, and drags society kicking and screaming into a nihilistic abyss.Indeed, there is not a lot of positivity to be found in Horkheimer’s writing; but this is to be expected from a work written by a German Jew in 1947.
This was a great read.
Adorno and Horkheimer were working hard to make sense of a world where much had gone very wrong.
This book was written, in English, as a book version of a series of talks Horkheimer delivered while he was living in the US.
Perhaps because of this, it is quite lucid and to the point.
The ideas are big but are not unnecessarily swathed in difficult verbiage.The critiques of culture and the march of industry are still incredibly applicable, too.
They saw this coming in 1947?"A nice intro to Horkheimer (and Adorno, too).
NO!
A deep insight into modern society.
Whether this situation is a necessary phase in the general ascent of society as a whole, or whether it will lead to a victorious re-emergence of the neo-barbarism recently defeated on the battlefields, depends at least in part on our ability to interpret accurately the profound changes now taking place in the public mind and in human nature. Horkheimer's treatise on the instrumentalization, the formalization, of reason is as prescient and disturbing a piece of critical theory as I think one is
The reduction of reason, once an objective quality of truth to which we could hold reality to account, to a mere trace or byproduct of 'natural' forces for the subject's self-preservation in reality as-is deprives the individual of his or her most powerful tool for questioning the rightness of the ends suggested by the social reality they are presented.Horkheimer traces the historical development of the transition from 'objective' to 'subjective' reason, and its relationship to the subject, philosophy, religion, and the regressive and progressive barbarisms of fascism and industrial societies, critiquing all attempts to somehow reverse the historically necessary transformation of 'reason' through neo-thomistic commercialized religion or the positivist & pragmatist philosophies which deprive philosophy, the subject, and reason of all substantive content and reduce them to mere events in the processes of production.This breakdown in the cultural methods of critique and the reduction of all processes to seemingly ‘rational’ forms of domination and reification lead to what Horkheimer calls the ‘revolt of nature,’ which I think is the most powerful essay and thesis presented in this book.
Some memorable points from my read through:The author discussed our society's emphasis on science or "objective" reason, which he claimed are arguably subjective - "How is it possible to determine what justly may be called science and truth, if the determination itself presupposes the methods of achieving scientific truth?" In simpler terms, when someone asks why experimental observations is the proper guarantee of truth, the response is to conduct more observations; the gaping flaw here: the lack of verification to justify that observations do indeed lead to scientific truth.
(Needs another reading)
Okay read. Contrasts "subjective reason", reason used to further other goals, and objective reason (used to find the absolute truth). The author criticizes the rise of subjective reason, including saying that such thinking doesn't have any absolute ground to reject evil ideologies such as nazism. His critique of subjective reason, including his time's industrial powers and national propaganda, is interesting to follow. However, he doesn't expand too much on what objective reason looks like, so it reads a bit like a rant. But it's a short and not very difficult read.
Was going to give this four stars but the last essay is good. It sags a bit in the middle. The beginning and end are very good. I had to look up what was meant by objective and subjective reason. I thought I had an idea. I'm not totally sold on the soundness of the argument, but I think I get it.
Helpful for understanding some of the thinking of the Frankfurt School.
İkinciye okunacak.
how will instrumental reason recover from this?
Este libro de 1947, fue luego ampliado y publicado en 1967 como  Crítica de la Razón Instrumental.----A la vista de acontecimientos históricos como el triunfo del nacionalsocialismo, la victoria del estalinismo y el aumento general del control del Estado en Occidente, en la década de los treinta Max Horkheimer llegó a la conclusión de que lo que anteriormente había caracterizado al capitalismo –el mercado y la propiedad privada– ya no constituía sus principios organizativos esenciales […] Horkheimer sostuvo que la contradicción estructural del capitalismo había sido superada; la sociedad estaba ahora directamente constituida por el trabajo.
The central contention of Eclipse of Reason (as of Dialektik der Aufklärung) is that the form of “reason” born of “enlightenment”, while promising “emancipation”, produced and produces further forms of “domination”.
“Reason can realize its reasonableness only through reflecting on the disease of the world as produced and reproduced by man; in such self-critique, reason will at the same time remain faithful to itself, by preserving and applying for no ulterior motive the principle of truth that we owe to reason alone.
The changes of direction, the advances and retrogressions of this effort, reflect the development of the definition of philosophy.” (p.
Horkheimer is less Marxist than Hegelian, maintaining that the dialectic between theory and practice is what drives history.
This work sets out a distinction between objective and subjective, or instrumental, reason and then examines the consequences of the latter without the former.
It is thus highly critical of positivism and the idea that practicality is the highest good.
As would be expected of a book this short, Horkheimer tends to make unsupported statements, but Eclipse of Reason contains a valuable critique of positivism and is a good starting point for further thought.
ang gusto lang naman yatang sabihin dito ni horkheimer: the universalist project of the enlightenment only served the interests of Capital, i.e. by making instruments out of and reifying people and making them subservient to the system's social pressures. while the post-structuralists were just about to announce and celebrate the death of the 'universals,' horkheimer here was semi-appealing for the recognition of the necessity of these universals. he won't call out names, pero putsa marxistang intelektwal ito, so malamang umuubo-ubo at tumatadyak-tadyak na sosyalismo (NOT socialism-as-telos) ang (isa sa mga) tinititigan niya.
That was amazing. A bit depressing because of the contemporary relevance of its main argument (against instrumental reason and mass culture), but really edifying. It's the perfect introduction to the Frankfurt school and to the "negative dialectics" approach. Horkheimer's critique of American pragmatism is too dismissive perhaps, but besides that, this short book is pure genius.
Fondamentale per comprendere molti aspetti del nostro mondo – soprattutto, credo, il modo in cui la riflessione (condivisa, pubblica, razionale) sui valori che fondano la società è stata del tutto cancellata, sostituita da pulsioni viscerali, istinti, idee ricevute, senso comune ecc., che ben si coniugano al dominio della tecnica (a questo punto cieca).
هورك هايمر يقول كل عقل مأدلج اغتاله وحش الايدولوجيا و الروتين يقفد إستقلاله يفقد قدرته على العمل ولا يبقى منه إلا الوظائف الإجرائية التى تسمح بالسيطرة على الطبيعة و المجتمع، يبقى منه محض عمل إدراكى يمارس بيه العمل بكل اليه, ارسطو يقول الانسان حيوان مفكر. تماماً نفس فكر هايمر. و اى خطاب خارج نطاق العقل هو إهانة للعقل و بالتبعية إهانة للإنسانية
this was really cool. certainly can't claim to have understood all of it but it was one of those books where almost every paragraph could become another book. maybe when i'm a few years smarter i'll come back to it and totally change my mind
Pek çok tartışmaya muhteşem bir giriş kitabı. Frakfurt okulunun en özgün kitaplarından biri değil belki ama bence tam bir doğru zamanda doğru kitap ve okulun en kolay anlaşılır kitabı muhtemelen.Bir de Orhan Koçak'ın muhteşem önsözü...
AWESOME!
Dated, but influential.
review to follow.
