https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75070.Allan_Quatermain_and_the_Ice_Gods
Allan and the Ice-Gods is a different type of Allan Quatermain story. It takes place completely in his home where Allan and a friend smoke a native herb and regress to pre-historic times. A dream sequence reveals the adventures of their pre-historic counterparts. If you are not interested in earlier times or are not an Allan Quartermain fan, skip this read, but if you enjoy books like Jean Auel's Clan of the Cave Bear and its sequels, then you should enjoy this one too. I found it very entertaining.
Rider Haggard wrote, and completes the loosely linked quartet that began with "Allan and the Holy Flower," continued into "The Ivory Child" and then "The Ancient Allan." (A reading of these earlier books is recommended before going into this one.) In this final book, Quatermain again partakes of the taduki drug, as he did in the previous two novels, and gets to see a previous incarnation of his--when he was Wi, the leader of a small tribe during one of the Ice Ages.
(Rudyard Kipling helped Haggard with the planning of this novel.) All in all, I really enjoyed this book, and thank Pulp Fictions UK for bringing it back into print.
" Ah, taduki. The drug owns us, doesn't it? Addicted to the taste of previous lives we let our current ones go hang." - Lady Ragnall অযালান কোয়াটেরমেন সিরিজের শেষ বই Allan and the Ice Gods এর অনুবাদ। শেষবারের মতো তাদুকির নেশায় ডুব দেয় অযালান, বনধু গুডকে সাথে করে।এবারও এই মোহনীয় নেশা ভুলিয়ে দেয় মানুষের আশেপাশের সব বরতমান জগৎ, নেশার ঘোরে নিয়ে যায় বহু আগের কোন অনয-জীবনে।এরপর শুরু হয় ওয়াই নামের এক আদিম যোদধার কাহিনী। পুরো বইটা পরাগৈতিহাসিক মানব ওয়াই আর তখনকার পযালিলিওলিথিক/পরি-পযালিলিওলিথিক মানুষের
" Ah, taduki.
The drug owns us, doesn't it?
Addicted to the taste of previous lives we let our current ones go hang." - Lady Ragnall অ্যালান কোয়াটেরমেন সিরিজের শেষ বই Allan and the Ice Gods এর অনুবাদ। শেষবারের মতো তাদুকির নেশায় ডুব দেয় অ্যালান, বন্ধু গুডকে সাথে করে।এবারও এই মোহনীয় নেশা ভুলিয়ে দেয় মানুষের আশেপাশের সব বর্তমান জগৎ, নেশার ঘোরে নিয়ে যায় বহু আগের কোন অন্য-জীবনে।এরপর শুরু হয় ওয়াই নামের এক আদিম যোদ্ধার কাহিনী। পুরো বইটা প্রাগৈতিহাসিক মানব ওয়াই আর তখনকার প্যালিলিওলিথিক/প্রি-প্যালিলিওলিথিক মানুষের জীবনযুদ্ধ নিয়েই। বন্য নেকড়ের পাল, সেবারটুথ- প্রাগৈতিহাসিক দাঁতালো বাঘ, বিশাল হিংস্র ষাঁড় এর সাথে লড়াই করে সেই মারাত্মক ঝুঁকিপূর্ণ জীবন সংগ্রামে বেঁচে থাকে ওয়াই। দেখা দেয় অসংখ্য প্রতিবন্ধকতা, প্রতিকূলতা; বদলে যায় জীবনের হালচাল, তারপরও এই আদিম যোদ্ধা জীবনকে পাল্লা দিয়ে ছুটে চলে। রেটিং- ৩.৩
Stretching across the aeons, he must have felt a desire for something greater--as it ran through all his works.Having spent the past two months reading through the Quatermain and Ayesha series, I can say I am surprised.
Before reading him, I had dismissed Haggard as being something of a lightweight.
And he fills his novels with ideas, especially as he seems to be arguing about the merits of religion and the infinite over the entirety of his four decades long writing career.
I'm not sure that I will soon, if ever, have time to return to Quatermain.
A pretty fast read.
The main selling point here is that Allan does acid (or a fictional version - tadukic acid diethylamide).
When he does, he goes back in time in a lucid dream like state and witnesses life through his ancestor - which can vaguely happen IRL via the administration of psychedelic or entheogenic substances.
Allan smokes it with his friend Good, who appears as his brother in the flashback.
I'd like to read more Allan.
Can't say I'd recommend, because it's a more "specialized" series (who has the time for all that?) but it was a pleasant read.
Rider Haggard Anthology - The Complete Novels and Short Stories" which was published as a e-book by ByBliotech in 2013.
The editing in the collection is pretty good, and, what few illustrations are included (most look like what would have been included in the original publications - very late Victorian/Edwardian, coming up on Art Deco), show up pretty well on my Kindle Paperwhite.In this novel, Allan dips again into his Taduki, a vision-inducing substance that he has previously shared with a lady friend.
Since Taduki is apparently a social drug, Allan invites his adventurous friend, Good, who we remember from "King Solomon's Mines," to join him.
The interesting part is that after finishing the novel Allan Quatermain you would think the story ends, but it does not.
The novel is thrilling, fun and easy to read, full of adventure and exciting exploits.
The novels are like reading a previous version of Indiana Jones books.
The novels are very easy to read, and very entertaining.
The novels were written and take place over 100 years ago, and gives you a picture of life in Africa during that time.
His books were the precursor to the Indiana Jones Novels.
Allan and the Ice Gods in which Quatermain is thrown back in time by means of a Drug and inhabits the body of a paleolithic man – confusedly adhere to outmoded political values while at the same time they express their author's potent sexuality in venues so remote that a suppressed libidinousness can become occasionally almost explicit.
সুনদর বই। ওয়াই নামের এক সাহসী আফরিকান শিকারীর জীবনের গলপ এটি।
সুন্দর বই। ওয়াই নামের এক সাহসী আফ্রিকান শিকারীর জীবনের গল্প এটি।
A journey to the past......a book to remember
An entertaining adventure story.
আমার এ পরযনত পড়া অনযতম সেরা উপনযাস। এই বইটা নেশা ধরিয়ে দেওয়ার মতো একটা বই। হযাগারড আমার সবথেকে পরিয় লেখকদের মধযে একজন।
আমার এ পর্যন্ত পড়া অন্যতম সেরা উপন্যাস। এই বইটা নেশা ধরিয়ে দেওয়ার মতো একটা বই। হ্যাগারড আমার সবথেকে প্রিয় লেখকদের মধ্যে একজন।
I'll read anything Haggard has written. This was a fun adventure story.
