https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/350710.The_Magic_of_You
First of all, Warren seemed like a jerk when I first met him in Gentle Rogue.
Warren needs a woman like Amy. He's so serious and rather pompous, and she infuses him with life.
I know that Amy chases him shamelessly, but I found it appealing in this book.
Normally I don't really believe in chasing guys (it doesn't seem to work out well), but Amy definitely had a master plan.
The scene that really cemented my love of this book is when they touch each other's hands through the wall, and Warren whispers her name so longingly.
But Amy is like Napoleon.
She was two weeks away from her eighteen birthday and she just made her debut in English society, but her mind had stuck to Warren Anderson from the first moment that she met Georgina's brothers from America, six months ago...She was so sure that she could manage to make the "stiff" Warren to be hers but she needed time from this plan and between her and Warren was a whole ocean...But the opportunity came really quickly since Georgina was about to give birth to her first child, so the "uncles" were about to visit them....And that was the opportunity that Amy was seeking for six months...From the first day, Amy let her pride beside and started to mark very close Warren.
(He was apparently happy before some chick played him for an admittedly really big fool, and after that he decided all woman...well, you've heard this before...)The trouble is, Warren is a ship captain and will only be in port for a couple of weeks while he visits his sister, who just gave birth.
(His sister is married to her uncle.) So Amy decides she has no choice but to boldly tell him she wants him and wants to get married, and that she's sure they're going to be happy together.
5 FULLY AMAZING STARSThis is my favorite in this series by JLReview in a few.
This review was originally posted on Addicted To Romance    Summary   Amy Malory is soon to turn eighteen years old, and as the younger of her siblings, she is ready to find a husband. But she knows the man she will marry, even if he doesn't realize it....Warren Anderson. She has "feelings" and her feeling stronger than ever is that he is her future mate but she must convince him first, and she knows it won't be easy. Warren Anderson is bitter over the past and lost his faith in women except for
At first Warren, doesn't think much of this young lady who is way too young for him, but when she begins to pursue him very persistently, he knows he is in deep trouble, because she could make him love again and Warren isn't sure he could handle it a second time and being burned again.
But Amy is determined to bring love and laughter back into Warren's life no matter what it takes...
Simply loving reconnecting with this rambunctious and crazy fun family.''I want you, Warren Anderson''
Cea mai frumoasa carte de pana acum. Mi-a plăcut eroina, care este foarte hotărâtă in ceea ce își dorește. Si este dispusă sa facă orice pentru atingerea scopurilor propuse. Multe momente in care razi cu lacrimi...
Rate: 5 solid starsThe only other Johanna Lindsey book I've read is Prisoner of My Desire which was a daring bodice ripper set in a medieval era.
Even so, I wasn't completely put off from reading another Johanna Lindsey book and I'm so glad I picked up this one next.
After reading just the first few pages, I was thinking to myself, I actually don't know anything about the way Johanna Lindsey can write.
Let it happen, Warren."I'll give you the warning now: If you have an issue with the idea of a woman relentlessly pursuing a man, then stay far away from this book.
Η Έιμι Μάλορι, πνεύμα ατίθασο και γυναίκα έτοιμη να πάρει ρίσκα για να πετύχει αυτό που θέλει, είναι κρυφά ερωτευμένη με έναν άντρα που όχι μόνο είναι άκρως ακατάλληλος για εκείνη, αλλά έχει και κακό παρελθόν με την οικογένειά της, αφού κάποτε είχε προσπαθήσει να βάλει στη φυλακή τον θείο της, Τζέιμς.
Άκρως έξυπνοι και απολαυστικοί διάλογοι, πολύ ωραίο χιούμορ δοσμένο σε σωστές δόσεις ώστε να μην διακωμωδούνται καταστάσεις, αλλά και μια παθιασμένη ιστορία ενός αντισυμβατικού έρωτα που έχει πολλά εμπόδια να ξεπεράσει, και που δεν διστάζει να το προσπαθήσει.
Their story is sweet and romantic, with Warren trying to resist Amy.Amy has been in love with Warren since she first saw him.
She uses very amusing tactics, which i mostly laugh out load at.Johanna Lindsey wrote a wonderful story of a resisting man, who has been hurt in the lowest way possible and the woman who could pick him back up again.Zooey Deschanel as Amy MaloryHugh Jackman as Warren Anderson
Τι ιστορία!5 αστεράκια,που πραγματικά είναι λίγα!
Ο Γουόρεν κι η Έιμι έχουν 16 χρόνια διαφορά (καμπανάκια άρχισαν να χτυπούν εντός μου.) Είναι τόσο διαφορετικοί μεταξύ τους,αλλά όταν συναντιούνται η χημεία τους είναι τόσο έντονη που πετάνε σπίθες (τα καμπανάκια κουδουνίζουν περισσότερο.) Το χιούμορ και οι καυστικές ατάκες τόσο μεταξύ τους,όσο και μεταξύ Γουόρεν και Τζέιμς, είναι σκέτη απόλαυση να τις διαβάζεις (ηχήστε οι σάλπιγγες,καμπάνες βροντερές...) Το λάτρεψα το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο,όπως σίγουρα θα το λατρέψουν όσοι το διαβάσουν.Βιβλίο με βιβλίο,η Λίντσεϊ εξελίσσεται ως συγγραφέας και οι ήρωές της ωριμάζουν κι αυτοί,γίνονται ολοένα πιο συναρπαστικοί κι ενδιαφέροντες και οι ιστορίες τους ολοένα καλύτερες..
I really liked this book but what I loved the most was the animosity between Warren and Amy's uncles.
You have to read Gentle Rogue before this one and I wished I had read all of the books in this series in order.
*Running off getting the backlist* The family plays a huge role in this book and the Mallory family is my favorite historical romance family.
We got to spend a lot of time with Anthony again2.
We got to spend even more time with Georgie and James from Gentle Rogue3.
Amy's positive outlook and brazen pursuit of Warren4.
Amy was beyond stupid a couple of times3.
Amy, an 18 y/o Malory neice, has designs on her 36 y/o American cousin-by-marriage and spends much of the book trying to seduce him into marrying her.
Cute at moments, but I am not into stories that star a silly girl as a heroine.
The romance was actually missing, it was just her trying to seduce him while he refused her over and over until, (ooops!), they have sex.
The story was so predictable, a complete stretch, and not one I'd like to read again.The audiobook reader was actually pretty good, so I'll mention that.
Okay, I'm cheating here, and I don't like them all equally, but I do love the Mallory's. They're all funny. I especially liked Love Only Once (the first book), Gentle Rogue (my favorite), and The Magic of You (where the heroine chases the hero shamelessly).
Amy'nin azmine ve inandığı şeyler uğruna sonuna kadar gitmesine hayran olmamak elde değil..
Warren Anderson is the crankiest of the Anderson's because of a jilted love many years ago, but the moment that Amy Malory met him she knew he was the one for her. There are many up hill battles that Amy has to face to get Warren to love her and even though I love this book I really think that in the end after he breaks her heart she really forgives him so easily. I wish she would've made him grovel a little bit.
This series is getting better and better, I have to thank my friends Eden Creed for introducing me to Johanna Lindsey, so far I'm loving her books.Amy was such a refreshing heroine, she literally lightened the atmosphere in any scene in the book.
I really liked this book but what I loved the most was the animosity between Warren and Amy's uncles.
The family plays a huge role in this book and the Mallory family is my favorite historical romance family.So, I'm not shy about how much I love the Malory series!
We get so much insight into the thoughts and feelings of Lindsey's men and I guess that’s a big part of what draws me to these stories – that I love the outward gruff and toughness of the men juxtaposed with their internal old softies.The heroine, Amy, was so unexpectedly bold, fun and mischievous that she easily rivaled Regan, and is by far the best Malory heroine.
I had been looking for a book where the heroine does the pursuing.Laughing-out-loud-recommendation :D
Johanna lindsey has never ceased to surprise me with her excellent books despite the bold scenes but this time she has completely bowled me over.
Amy malory,a 18 year old reckless,cheerful,sweet,bubbly girl with looks of a angel falls in love with Warren at first sight and hence is determined to win him and to bring laughter back into his life and to melt the cold screen surrounding his heart and make her way into it.But warren is shocked by her moves and hence discourages her at every point and meets her sweet passion with cruelty and stubborness.
start baca dan tak tahu nak berhenti
She doesn't disappoint as she shows the Malory spunk and determination to make Warren hers.
I enjoyed Amy as a character and found her to be a perfect foil for Warren.I believe this is the same reader of the other Malory audio books I've listened to, and she does manage to give all the characters their own distinctive personalities.
You never have to guess who is speaking and she inflects just the right emotion into her voice for each situation.What can I say – It's another terrific Malory book by Johanna Lindsey and I just can't get enough of them!
The Magic of You: 5 Star Great Read!Wow. I must say , I really enjoyed that book.
I have never had the pleasure of reading a Johanna Lindsey book, (I Think), and it will not be my last time.
Her book was a load of fun and I stayed up all night to read it.
Basically, in this novel, there is an impetuous bold beautiful chit named Amy and a brooding bitter man named Warren.
Warren is an american and Amy is a brit.
Anyways, the book was a lot of fun, especially the end.
Το καταλάβατε αυτό από τη βροχή των θαυμαστικών που ακολουθεί την οποιαδήποτε αναφορά ως προς το άτομό του!!!!!!!Πάλεψε γενναία για να αντισταθεί στα θέλγητρα της ηρωίδας,προσπάθησε να κρύψει,να μηδενίσει την τρελή του επιθυμία γι'αυτήν,την ταλαιπώρησε και ταλαιπωρήθηκε, την αρνήθηκε και παράλληλα αρνήθηκε στον εαυτό του κάθε μορφή συναισθήματος....ενέδωσε στο πάθος του αλλά την επόμενη στιγμή την ισοπέδωσε....πέρασε πολλά ο υπέροχος ταλαίπωρος Γουώρρεν αλλλά......είχε απέναντι του και μία γυναίκα ,όπως του έπρεπε.Δεν μασούσε η κοπελιά,τα ήθελε όλα η τίποτα κι αυτόν ολοκληρωτικά δικό της η ...καθόλου!
Πολλά καρδιοχτύπια και αναστεναγμούς για τον ήρωα,την ηρωίδα και το love story τους!!!!!!!!!

The heroine wowed me. It was hard to put down.I was shaking my head and smiling at the unbelievable boldness of the heroine Amy and her tenacity, even though she was repeatedly rejected. It was interesting for a change to have a hero who was arrogant, cynical, brooding and hated women. This was different, a good story and very enjoyable.Sexual language: mild. Number of sex scenes: one. Setting: 1819 London. Copyright: 1993. Genre: regency romance.For a list of my reviews of other Johanna Lindsey books, see my 5 star review of “Gentle Rogue” posted 6/14/08.
Woo Hoo! This is an exciting romance. Crazies' heroine ever. She pursue the Hero! Oh My...but try it, it so funny, sometimes there is a kind of Hero which need stalkerific Heroine to chase him. To introduced him with love. Finally I'm very excited with this book. Crazy Amy!
Thought I should voice my opinion on the problems I had and at the same time highly recommend the other volumes of the 'Mallorys'!The story and the plot lines are fine, the only problem is Amy. She is insufferable in her stubbornness, and its highly unlikely anyone will tolerate her as much as everyone in this book does.
I liked Warren a lot, and honestly I felt bad he had to be stuck with this girl and for the sake of happy ending had to miraculously fall in love with her.
I love this book. Warren and Amy were so good together. I loved it. This was one of those books that I want to erase from my memory and re-read again!
Θα τολμήσω να ομολογήσω πως μέχρι τώρα είναι το αγαπημένο μου και αυτό είναι μεγάλο επίτευγμα εκ μέρους της Johanna Lindsey, αν σκεφτούμε πως έχει προηγηθεί το δεύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς “Τυφλή Αφοσίωση” με τον μοναδικό Άντονι Μάλορι.Στη “Μαγεία της αγάπης” η ιστορία έχει ως αφετηρία την ετοιμόγεννη Τζορτζίνα Άντερσον-Μάλορι, ηρωίδα του τρίτου βιβλίου της σειράς “Ο κουρσάρος της καρδιάς μου”.
Καθώς η οικογένεια Μάλορι περιμένει τη γέννα, τα νέα για την άφιξη των πέντε αδερφών Άντερσον αναστατώνουν τους ήρωες και ιδιαιτέρως τη νεαρή Έιμι, κόρη του Έντουαρντ Μάλορι.
Aceasta serie se numara printre preferatele mele,pentru ca-mi place interactiunea dintre membrii fam
The heroine, Amy, was so unexpectedly bold, fun and mischievous that she easily rivaled Regan, and is by far the best Malory heroine. This Malory novel, introduces martial arts against fisticuffs and a journey across the ocean, sizzling with desire that is enough to unravel the rigid Warren Anderson, a Malory family 'in-law. If you enjoy everything Malory, extended American relatives, the exotic and a little injection of Captain "Hawk", James Malory, then do read, please.(Does my review have enough "Malorys" in it?)
