https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26866478-the-man-with-the-dark-beard
The characters and their relationships were very well drawn, sensational stories of the past informed the story, and so did the changing times of the 1920s and the future possibilities that must have seem so tantalising then.Nowhere is that better encapsulated than in Miss Lavinia Priestly, aunt of Hilary and her crippled brother Fee. She was described as ‘a spinster of eccentric habits’; she was a world traveller; she loved her niece and nephew dearly; she had very firm opinions, some modern and some traditional, and she was always ready to call a spade a spade.I loved her, and I had a strong suspicion that she was the author’s alter-ego.As executor of John Bastow’s will, Sir Felix told Hilary that he would respect her father’s wishes and separate her from Basil Wilton.
Annie Haynes wrote a handful of mysteries that were well-received at the time but dropped out of publication. This is the first in her Stoddart series - Stoddart is a professionally beige sort of police detective whose lack of colour is in contrast to the high melodrama of this particular plotline.Not terrible, but the murderer was too-clearly telegraphed, and I couldn't quite care for the characters. I'll try a couple more of her books though.
“Nobody would have murdered him,” Miss Lavinia cried. “Everybody liked John!”“I’m afraid it is evident that someone did not.”Pretty good murder mystery although it took a seemingly long time to get to the conclusion. I enjoyed it enough to seek out more by Annie Haynes though.
I had such high hopes for Annie Haynes- a female mystery writer from my favorite period whom I somehow had never run across.
Sayers or Ngaio Marsh, but I was disappointed that the identity of the murder was so obvious, so soon.
The wacky spinster aunt is a bit more appealing, despite being an obvious stereotype, but I would really have appreciated at least one character that seemed to be paying attention.
I'll try another of Haynes' mysteries, in hopes that this is an anomaly, but I'm not optimistic.
This is great vintage stuff, introducing Inspector Stoddart who is called in to investigate the murder of a doctor, a doctor who recently confessed to a top defence barrister that he had information about a crime that had gone unpunished.The doctor was found dead, shot in the head in his study, having left a mysterious note saying 'It was the man with the dark beard'.There's quite a lot going on, what with red herrings, sundered love trysts, disappearing parlour maids, mysterious men with beards, secretaries behaving strangely, another murder and a missing Chinese box.
I'm glad irked a second book by this author. This was a big improvement on the first I read and would be three and a half stars if I could give halves. It was skilfully told, well structured with some some engaging characters. The author carefully builds sufficient flaws into her characters to cast doubt on their motives. This can easily tip into melodrama, but here it was competently contained. Even though I saw the solution coming, the narrative kept me interested.
#1 in the Scotland Yard Inspector Stoddard mystery series. A complicated mystery involving the relationships between family members, a godparent and a daughter’s desire to marry.Hilary Basted’s father is found murdered after he has disapproved of her marriage to his assistant. The only clue is a note left beside Dr. John Basted's corpse saying: “It was the man with the dark beard.” Her he fiancé, Basil Wilton, becomes the chief suspect.
Not too bad - a bit slow but a reasonable story and the detective was a good character.
Kindle EditionAn easy read which requires little or no brain power by the reader.
Really easy to figure out who did what and why.
There is also one massive coincidence, upon which rests the solving of the crimes by the detective, which is a bit hard to swallow.
Inspector Stoddart is a quite likeable character but I would have liked to know a bit more about him.
Maybe in subsequent stories he gets a bit more fleshed out.
This was my first Annie Haynes book and I have to admit I'd never even heard of her until a chance mention on Kindle caught my eye.
Read the book only half way. It just got too uncomfortable with unexpected proposals and cliched kidnappings not to mention the obvious suspect at that point... that I only then checked last few pages to confirm the suspect. extremely disappointed. Quite out of vein from Anne Haynes' usual books.“Miss Haynes, I think, improves steadily – this is the best detective story she has yet written.” Time and Tide.- Eminently doubtful!!! I really enjoyed many of her other books, this one was a no-gooder.
First I was pleasantly surprised not expecting much as it was the first book by a relatively unknown, or maybe forgotten would be a better way to put it, golden age mystery writer. The story drew me in although the heroine was a bit melodramatic and the detective a touch too intuitive and the ending a bit fanciful. Yet, despite all that, if you let your imagination roam freely and return to that time and place and you will enjoy a couple of hours of solid entertainment.
Good first effort of a new inspector. I will buy the next book in the series!Both the inspector and his side kick will become more life like in the next book, I hope. I am looking forward to reading it!
Fun - inspired me to read the author's other three books.
Very enjoyable good plot and well written. I shall read more in the series.
Good story, but one can see through the plot almost immediately, so reading the entire story became just a matter of appreciating the author's path toward the final outcome.
An okay read but I really did not like most of the characters, especially Miss Lavinia. The ending was disappointing too.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
