https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171091.Poems_of_Akhmatova
She needed no blackmail to write about the fortitude of the inhabitants of Leningrad during the lengthy and murderous siege or the necessity of courage in face of the Nazi claws tearing at the Russian people's throat, but I won't quote those poems, either.
All but she were long since dead.Like most of Akhmatova's translations (she knew Italian well enough to willingly translate some of Leopardi's verse in the 60's), the work of translating Poems of Akhmatova was divided between the linguist Max Hayward and the poet Stanley Kunitz.
As to Lyn Coffin's Poems, I never liked the selection, and after dipping into it once or twice spent all my time on the Kunitz and the Hemschemeyer.It's difficult to know what to say about an icon like Akhmatova.
Probably she would still be a key figure in Russian literature, but thanks (or no thanks) to history she is more than this; she bears testament, yet always in that pitch-perfect singer's voice which sounds, even in English, like nothing else on Earth.Akhmatova's is the most all-consuming body of poetry I know.
"Mesmo eu dele de vez em quando tenho medo,Quando com todo o seu peso Me faz recuar, arfando e sobrepondo-se:Não há defesa, não há nada — mais depressa.Quem sabe como ele se mudou em pedra.Como cauterizou o coração e com que fogo,Grande coisa. A quem interessa,Todos tão confortáveis e useiros nele.Partilhá-lo comigo todos vós de acordo,Apesar de tudo, porém, sempre meu.---------------------------Quase devorou a minha alma,Desfeia o meu destino,Mas um dia rompo-o,Para chamar a morte ao pelourinho."[Amedeo Modigliani (Anna Akhmatova, 1911)]
Growing up, for me it was a huge magnolia tree that I climbed.
Sadly, most of the trees have been cut down around the old home place, including that beloved magnolia.WillowI was raised in checkered silencein the cool nursery of the young century.Human voices did not touch me,it was the wind whose words I heard.I favored burdocks and nettles,but dearest to me was the silver willow,my long companion through the years,whose weeping branchesfanned my insomnia with dreams.Oddly, I have survived it:out there a stump remains.
I know of few poets who can pack as much emotional weight and power into such spare and economical poems. The translations are excellent and the original Russian versions are included, as they should be. This slim volume may not weigh much, but the content is as heavy as the Potemkin. Akhmatova was a warrior who gave a voice to those who would not have been heard otherwise and she is a perfect example of what poetry can be at it's greatest.
I compared a few of the poems (Willow, Cleopatra) with the versions in the D.M Thomas/Penguin effort, and it's clear that these are the versions to read.
Also, the Kunitz/Hayward edition has a great introduction, an interesting note on the problems of translation, and informative notes on individual poems.
The Thomas/Penguin version gives you the whole poem.
(The Thomas one also breaks down its selections so that you can see which books the poems came from.) I was tempted to ding this one a star because of these frustrations, but the poetry is too good for that.
Basically, talent doesn't need history." On the other hand, in the intro to this tranlsation of AA, Stanley Kunitz comments that Osip Mandelstam made a remark to the effect that "great poetry is often a response to total disaster."The connection between genius and environment is an intriguing one, though I don't think they are mutually exclusive.
/ Yet in my heart I never will deny her, / who suffered death because she chose to turn." I suppose one could read some form of political defiance in those words, but they give me goosebumps because they seem to suggest some deeply personal response to grief.
I don't get these poems easily--I can't just pick this book up and understand. Still, there are some that strike immediately:"The three things he loved most in lifeWere white peacocks, music at mass,And tattered maps of America.He didn't like kids who cried and heDidn't like raspberry jam with teaOr womanish hysteria....And I was, like it or not, his wife."
Five feet eleven, dark-haired, fair-skinned, with pale grey-green eyes like those of snow leopards, slim and incredibly lithe, she was for a half a century sketched, painted, cast, carved and photographed by a multitude of artists starting with Amadeo Modigliani.
Seriously?***Broad and yellow is the evening light,The coolness of April is dear.You, of course, are several years late,Even so, I'm happy you're here.Sit close at hand and look at me,With those eyes, so cheerful and mild:This blue notebook is full, you see, Full of poems I wrote as a child.Forgive me, forgive me, for having grievedFor ignoring the sunlight, too.And especially for having believedThat so many others were you.***1.Not weeks, not months - it took us years To part.
This is a bilingual edition of selected poems arranged chronologically, containing her celebrated work "Requiem" and extracts from "Poem Without a Hero." Akhmatova's witness is one of profound sensitivity to human suffering and cruelty. One of the virtues of her poetry is personal pride, the positive aspect of it, the strength to resist passively and to not succumb to people and institutions in power.
i really like the fact that you can tell this collection is from across her life - it starts out with where most poets start, talking about love and failed affairs etc and then the war hits and it permeates everything with loss and dread and yet this sense of pride and it's just  excellent
Favourites:— I Wrung My Hands— Heart's Memory of Sun— How Can You Look At The Neva?— July 1914— Why Is This Age Worse?— Everything Is Plundered— Lot's Wife— The Muse— The Last Toast
Tears dropped into the past from the crying future.
Para aquella que solo escribía versos que “suenan a verdad” o que pensaba que un poeta tiene una “relación secreta con todo lo que ha escrito” (luego es imposible llegar a su completo significado), escribir en prosa no dejó de ser también una búsqueda de la verdad y el secreto.La prosa de Anna Ajmátova, reunida por Nevsky, atraviesa precisamente su tiempo (el de ella).
Sus comienzos en la poesía, los simbolistas rusos, Nikolái Stepánovich Gumiliov, su marido, con el que, escindidos de aquellos (y enfrentados) formó el grupo acmeista (que propugnaba una poesía clara y concisa, y del que traza una historia), las relaciones entre todos ellos, y la reivindicación (insistente) de sus comienzos como poeta, más allá de él (defendiéndose, buscando su lugar).
I wouldn't mind returning to Akhmatova one day, as the end notes talk about bigger and better things penned later in her career that are contained in full in other editions, but I may have to read up more on the other famous figures of her milieu (Bly's 'Petersburg', for one, for even a difference in ideology between him in Akhmatova doesn't prevent them from having known the same people and experienced the same Russian landscape) before I tackle that.
Translated poetry seems to me almost an impossibility, but the Kunitz/Hayward collection is both artful and recognizably animated by Akhmatova's voice—or, over time, voices.
(Her son was released in 1956, but many of her close friends and family died in Stalin's prisons.)This was my first real exposure to Akhmatova, so the sparse explanatory notes in the back of the book and the introduction to the poet's life and literary times were welcome additions to the volume.
I got this book after seeing a wonderful painting of Anna Akhmatova by the Russian artist Natan Altman (http://www.auburn.edu/academic/libera....)I'm glad I did it.
I enjoyed the selected poems, if "enjoy" is the right word to use about someone who often had an understandably gloomy and heavily burdened view of life.
I reread several of the poems after reading the biography of Akhmatova in the beginning of the book, because I could better understand the context in which they were written.Some might wonder at Akhmatova's decision to stay in Russia after the accession of the Bolsheviks and her being named an enemy of the state.

My first exposure to Akhmatova, and I found her work to be like a knife: painful and sharp. I will forever be fascinated by a culture which has tolerated so much misery. The end-notes were valuable, and I'd recommend reading them to get the full picture for the poems notated.
I have wanted to read a collection by her for a long while, but just had never picked one up.
Now that has been remedied and what moving poetry about a hard life during a hard time in the history of Russia it is.
My only regret is that I can’t read in the original language and must depend on a translator to bring her words to life.
I was most moved by one of the poems that spoke of staying in Russia and writing instead of leaving in exile or as an emigrant.
Her words of beauty were born of much ugliness and struggle.
Ive come across two poemhunter.com collections of poems by Anna Akhmatova. In both cases, in only a handful (the same handful?) of poems are the names of the translators supplied.I preferred the shorter, 2004 edition to the 2012 edition. In my opinion, it would have been better to skip most of the poems added to the 2012 edition.The 2012 collection has a much more complete biographical introduction to Anna Akhmatova. Unfortunately there is is no indication of chronology, and that together with t
I´ve come across two poemhunter.com collections of poems by Anna Akhmatova. In both cases, in only a handful (the same handful?) of poems are the names of the translators supplied.I preferred the shorter, 2004 edition to the 2012 edition. In my opinion, it would have been better to skip most of the poems added to the 2012 edition.The 2012 collection has a much more complete biographical introduction to Anna Akhmatova. Unfortunately there is is no indication of chronology, and that together with the wildly disparate quality of the poems (translations?) is a definite hindrance to appreciating the poet´s work.
I had read several translations of many of Anna Akhmatova's poems and maybe because of that I was positioned to respond as I did to these moving presentations.
Stanley Kunitz and Max Hayward, with a skillful translation born of an exquisite poetic sensitivity, were able to open the floodgates of emotion within me the others did not do (my own Russian language skills are puerile).
In these pages are some of the best post-Symbolist works: honest, clear, present to the world responses to that world.
I feel so blessed to have read (and will continue to read) poems from this courageous spirit.
Perhaps it's the translation, but this collection read very unevenly to me -- I liked half of it, and really disliked half of it, give or take. On the whole, I enjoyed the later works far better than the earlier ones, and liked the longer poems better than the shorter ones. I wish I could read these in Russian to truly get the flavor, as I suspect reading them in English leads one to miss a lot. My favorite here was "The First Long-Range Artillery Shell in Leningrad", and a close second was "Music", for Shostakovitch.
Stanley Kunitz's translations of Akhmatova's poetry make you completely comfortable with never learning Russian because you never feel as though you're missing some hidden, complex meaning. Everything here is pretty deep. This is a collection which I'm sure I'll pick up again and again, although I wish it included more than just a fragment of "Poem without a Hero." But if all I get is "We Are All Drunkards Here," "Hamlet," "Requiem," etc., I shan't complain.
I've never been a poetry fan, but Akhmatova has made me rethink how I approach reading poetry. I've found that Russian poetry is a force to be reckoned with, and Akhmatova is no exception. Like a snapshot, her poems are visually intriguing. Her poems are compact and forceful, and Mitchell does an excellent job at translating. "I wrung my hands," "Three things enchanted him," "To the Muse," and "Cleopatra" are my recommendations.
I received this book as a gift from my friend Yana, who played the Metacortechs ARG I worked on in October-November of 2003.She said that the poetry here reminded her much of the writing I did for the Matrix game. After reading all of the poems several times, I am incredibly humbled by the comparison.There is a sad weight to Akhmatova's words, but they are still strong, shining, with surprising nuances towards the simplest little things.
I had a Russian friend who told me that there are some editorial flubs with the translations here and there (words chosen for the sake of the rhyme scheme), but that the feeling is what counts, and they have that. I can't speak Russian, of course, but I love this woman's poems. I feel like they're full of zinging language and bullets. So strong and alive.
Decided this was an appropriate post-2016 election, book, and...it was: "Why is this age worse than earlier ages? In a stupor of grief and dread have we not fingered the foulest wounds and left them unhealed by our own hands?"
English translation with Russian on the other page. The poems are best read after reading background on the poet and her life. The translator notes are copious and even richer after reading about her life. Surprisingly less grim than I expected given the eras covered.
I think I would have liked a different translation better or to read this in Russian (which is as yet beyond my ken). The rhymes were heavier than they needed to be and I kept wondering what else I was losing.
