https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/171066.Venus_on_the_Half_Shell
In the case of Philip Jose Farmer, I must confess I was underwhelmed, the main reason being I'm such a big fan of Kurt Vonnegut that I couldn't help comparing this parody project with the master's originals.In Farmer's defense, the trashy plot and the florid style was probably deliberate.
I can also understand why Vonnegut refused to let Farmer write more books based impersonating his characters and distanced himself from the novel after initially endorsing it.
As everyone knows who's come across him in Kurt Vonnegut's books, Kilgore Trout had great ideas, but couldn't write.
So, in a way, it's fitting that Philip José Farmer had a great idea - actually to write the Kilgore Trout novel Venus on the Half Shell, which is referred to in God Bless You, Mr Rosewater - but that the result is embarrassing for everyone concerned.
The best part of Venus is definitely the blurb on the back cover, which, at least in the edition I read, faithfully reproduces the tackily suggestive text from Mr Rosewater.
lots of people seem to find this book silly.
well, it was written by a dude who pretended to be Vonnegut's favorite made-up author, kilgore trout.
but you know, i loved it, seriously.
it was odd, whimsical, with a touch of seriousness here and there to be followed up by self-mockery.
since i've been mildly self-aware i've adored, by genetic default, the works of Vonnegut, forced upon me by parents with crazy love for him.
so, i must admit, the only thing the man ever did which depresses me was to sue over the release of this book.
I did not expect much from VOTH-S but what I hoped it would not be, unfortunately, it was.Philip Josee Farmer, a writer who's work I have enjoyed from time to time, had come up with the cool idea to write a Kilgore Trout novel (and I believe, intended it as a sincere tribute to an author he admired and respected) and after some kerfuffle with its creator: Kurt Vonnegut, settled on publishing it with Farmer's name on the cover as not to give the impression that it was written by Vonnegut himself.
"Kilgore Trout"'s only published novel is like a cross between The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy and the Oz books, except 20 times dirtier.
Except for the long, involved descriptions of the aliens' sexual practices (and there are is a lot of sex in this book) it wouldn't be surprising at all to find creatures of this description in Oz.Despite the aforementioned vulgarity and somewhat heavy-handed use of simile: "Dawn broke like a window hit by a gold brick.
Though Farmer’s version made Vonnegut cross, who according to internet overstatement legends, had dismissed the novel as a fakers drivel (mostly coz of creator ambiguity, which was later cleared by a by-line), I found it pretty fab.This book is weird, comical, extremely absurd, reference filled and absolutely staggering.
Well, after first few chapters fun seemed to dwindle and stupidity went a large, making me a bit Vonnegut-ish, only to have it compensated in long run.There were tons of literary references during this loquacious honky-tonk, on which the novel hilariously craps on.
This book might be my best find...
EVER.Thsi book is a book by Kilgore Trout, a well known alter ego for Kurt Vonnegut Readers.
He has had hundreds of stories published this way and some of his story ideas are great.
he does not actually exists...Untill thsi book came out.
A great read in the style of Kurt Vonnegut.
Only later did everyone realize it was a book by Farmer.Still..
I always wanted to have this book, never found it, not even on the internet at the normal shops...
Well, there was a harback edition, but Kilgore Trout in Hardback?
I don't even know.A copy of this was given to me by my Junior year English teacher after doing a presentation on Breakfast of Champions by Kurt Vonnegut, just the fact that one of Kilgore Trout's books was actually released was astonishing to me.
There are prison sentences that last hundreds of years for simply landing on a planet's surface, sex with an alien cat-queen for an immortality elixir, and that said elixir gives all of the person's ancestors a say in their mind, constantly prattling on and on for as long as they shall live, which, I think, is forever.
I see people reviewing this as fan fiction and thats not quite right.
As a teenager, I didn't know it wasn't by Vonnegut.
Its not until I met grownups who had read Vonnegut, that could tell me that it was a sham.
There was no way of knowing.Its a hard book to read as it is pure baloney up until the last beautiful sentence.
To discuss the book is to discuss that last short sentence.
You need to know:1.
Its not fan fiction.2.
It is written by someone like (or could be) Vonnegut that thinks science fiction writers can't write.
The story around the book (that Farmer wrote it as Kurt Vonnegut's fictional science fiction writer Kilgore Trout, effectively making it like...
meta-fan-fiction?) is more interesting than the story in the book itself.
To me it was more interesting to try and imagine that I was in a by-stander in a Kurt Vonnegut story reading some actual Kilgore Trout.
(From there then imaging what it would be like to read the stories written by the fictional authors in the story by the real author's imagining of another author's fictional author.)
E' un romanzo di fantascienza abbastanza particolare sia per i temi trattati (anni '70) sia per il g
As other reviewers have suggested, it's like Douglas Adams, but with much more bodily humor. So, light and crude. For me, it seems credible that this might have been the kind of thing that Kurt Vonnegut's Kilgore Trout might have written had he been a real person (the novel is actually authored by Philip José Farmer, who appropriated the name of Vonnegut's fictional writer as an homage to Vonnegut.
Un libro dove una razza aliena distrugge la Terra per fare pulizia e l'unico superstite parte alla ricerca della verità definitiva fino a un pianeta che in realtà è un grande calcolatore.
Dove ho già sentito questa storia?
Peccato che il titolo sia Venere sulla conchiglia invece di Guida galattica per autostoppisti e che l'anno di pubblicazione sia il 1975 invece del 1979; comunque se fossi stato in Farmer due paroline con Adams le avrei scambiate.
Togliendo una stella per lo stile di scrittura e un finale troppo affrettato, questo romanzo resta un ottimo esempio di fantascienza satirica, pur non essendo un capolavoro.
I was reading Vonnegut quite a bit at the time so I knew of his character, the hack science fiction author Kilgore Trout.
The current reading was a 2013 reissue that includes quite a bit of foreword and afterword material on the story behind Philip Jose Farmer writing as Kilgore Trout and some of the drama behind that since the real author was not divulged at the time.
Kilgore Trout was, as described in the Vonnegut stories, a hack writer.
I will, however, give Mr. Farmer the benefit of the doubt that to the degree the story is "bad" it was only to capture the tenor and tone of Kilgore Trout.
Simón Wagstaff es el último hombre vivo en la Tierra, toca el banjo, está practicando sexo sobre la Esfinge con un robot femenino y tiene un encuentro con un viajero espacial del futuro.
Escrita por Farmer con el seudónimo de Kilgore Trout, un nombre que le sonará a los más “vonnegutianos” de ustedes.
En esta edición la novela va acompañada de un breve poema del autor, El pterodáctilo, oda al dinosaurio volador (sí, en serio), y del relato corto de Farmer Quemadura de piel, una esquizofrénica historia sobre espionaje, problemas dermatológicos y sexo.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
And I get how he wanted it to be a tribute to Vonnegut (Farmer wrote it as "Kilgore Trout" a character who is a novelist from Kurt Vonnegut Jr's books), but I also get how Vonnegut tried to ignore it despite initially giving it permission to happen.
Some element which holds Vonnegut together seemed missing.Also, I did read this as part of my attempt to find humor sci-fi (of which there seems suprisingly little).
Most of the humor seemed based around trying to make all the characters the epitome of pulp, so over the top we should laugh.
Strange, yet compelling book. There were portions I really liked, some other portions that we just so so, but overall a good read. I enjoyed the silliness, satire, and farce, but at the same time, the author (Philip Jose Farmer, for those who don't know) peppers in some interesting bits that make you think.Any book that talks about aliens whose method of locomotion is propulsion-by-farting can't be all bad... :)
Hilarious, and AMAZINGLY, I was wrong that I always thought Vonnegut had either written it or at least contributed more than just the fictional author. I have a new found respect for Farmer.
Quest’ultimo serve anche per descrivere qualche aggiuntiva società aliena oltre a quelle che il protagonista Simon Wagstaff – in compagnia di un cane, una civetta e, per un bel tratto, di una fighissima robot - visita nella sua ricerca del senso della vita: la capacità dell’autore come ‘costruttore di mondi’ (tanto per parafrasare il titolo di un suo famoso ciclo) è indiscutibile e fonte di momenti di puro divertimento – come dimenticare il pianeta abitato da una razza i cui maschi sono una sorta di palloni aerostatici che si muovono a forza di peti?
Very entertaining, uncannily successful Vonnegut pastiche from Farmer. I think Farmer is really underrated. He was playing the same games as Calvino and Borges and remaining commercially viable. BTW, Douglas Adams fans need to read this book; you'll thank me.
He picks up a dog he calls Anubis, an owl called Athena and a female android called Chworktap and together they roam through space on Simon's quest to find the meaning of it all.Its a bit like the Hitchhiker's guide to the Galaxy but without all the awesome, somehow.
Still it hums along merrily enough and some of the planets he lands on and alien societies he meets are rather fun, like the wheel shaped Lalorlong who's philosophy is to "keep rolling along."The satire is in some places biting but I felt the end was a bit of an anti climax.
Farmer used that pseudonym in honour of Kurt Vonnegut Jr and a character, Trout, who appears in a number of Vonnegut's books.The story is about the Space Wanderer, an Earthman Simon Wagstaff, who excapes a destroyed Earth in a Chinese spaceship, accompanied by a dog, Anubis, and an owl, Athena.
And what about the story?
It moved along nicely and you get to see different beings on different worlds and follow Simon's adventures.
The story didn't enrich my life in any way but I'm glad I read it.
I think it had some cult following...
How embarrassing to find only now that the book I thought was written by Kurt Vonnegut, under the pseudonym of his Kilgore Trout character, was actually written by Philip Jose Farmer.
It's probably due to the fact that it seems, to me at least, that Farmer was channeling Vonnegut in the satirical style of the latter.
Trout, of course, was a fictional character.
Anyway, back to the book this review is about.
Satirizes the publishing business too, as only a writer can.
Although I wouldn't recommend it--they wouldn't understand the satire as well as adults--it would just be wasted on most of them.
Ironico romanzo sulla space operaSconvolgente lo scoprire la risposta alla Domanda delle domande! Non ve la dirò, amici, perché preferisco che prima divorate questo succulento ed umoristico romanzo di Farmer. Ma posso citarvi quello che scrisse Re Alfonso di Castiglia, detto il Saggio: "Se fossi stato presente al momento della creazione, avrei potuto dare a Dio qualche buon suggerimento su come migliorare il mondo".
This book reads like bad Vonnegut, which, of course, was the author's intention as he is having fun writing a book supposedly by Kilgore Trout. So I guess in that sense, it is a success. On the other hand, I think it is fair to ask whether life is too short to bother with reading a book that intentionally reads like bad Vonnegut? It just might be.
This book is actually by Philip Jose Farmer. And Kurt Vonnegut wassaid to have not been amused by Farmer using his beloved character as the author of the book. I haven't read it in a long time, but I remember loving it. A space traveler seeking the answer to that universal question. You know the one I'm talking about.
This book was handed to me as a curiosity soon after graduation from Grinnell College. It was very silly--not one of Farmer's better works. Still, the idea of producting something by Kilgore Trout was an amusing one.
Sometimes you should judge a book by its cover which in this case, with the original cover artwork, is completely accurate. Absolutely hysterical, witty in the dumbest way possible, and lovingly mocking of sci-fi. Super fast and a great break from more serious fare.
Taking on the persona of Kurt Vonnegut's fictional writer Kilgore Trout to create a fictional book credited to Trout in one of Vonnegut's novels, Philip Jose Farmer provides a wondrous tribute to Vonnegut and Vonnegut's humor. An excellent SF romp.
This book is totally amazing.You can be sure that Vonnegut was jealous he hadn't wrote it.My problem is that the end was botched in a manner as if the author had been writing on commission by the page, and simply stopped with the attitude of "screw-it, that's all you paid for foikers."
