https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/818323.The_Law_of_Success
I have been reading this book for years. If you need to feel communion with GOD and are ever lost, whether in life, in GOD, with friends, or whatever, this booko really helps put things in perspective.
This book is by Paramahansa Yogananda who is the author of "Autobiography of Yogi".
Very simple and short book, that explains about Self-analysis, diagnosing failures, habits controlling life, the importance of meditation and happiness.
"When wealth is lost, you have lost a little; when health is lost, you have lost something of more consequence; but when peace of mind is lost, you have lost the highest treasure" "It is better to die struggling than to abandon your efforts while there is still a possibility of accomplishing something more; for even when death comes, your struggles must soon be renewed in another life"- Paramahansa Yogananda
Alright, I'm not an evangelist, but I carry this one around with me. And I admit, I have a few on hand for those times that friends feel lost.
Never saw so much meaningful content in so few pages.
Loved it!
A real gem. Small book with profound effect.
all in all are good all the time
Amazing simple precepts for ultimate success. This book has guided me most of my life, .Amazing simple precepts for ultimate success. This book has guided me most of my life, from college onwards. It was in my pocket during most important or challenging events. Concise and powerful.
The law of success by paramahamsa Yogananda is the shortest book I've ever read. Only 36 pages book. But it is power packed. It contains a lot of good points and knowledge. A very good book I say. A must read one for those who wants to become successful in life.
4.5 stars
REMINDERREMINDER to the road of success. Simple and practical instructions to be followed. Very easy to understand and remember. Thank you.
Amazing as always!A wonderful booklet on how to live purposefully and achieve spiritual and material success. The tenets of correct living so succinctly covered in so few words.
Its an eye opener bookEach and every word is an eye opener for us. Must read and train your mind for living happily and purposefully.
Awesome Book on self realisation.Great read for beginners to be aware of the significance of meditation to achieve both spiritual and materialistic goals of life.
Very goodEnjoyed this book very much. Combined ancient wisdom, business and traditional spirituality talk very well. Will definitely read it again
Really very inspiring book in a very beautiful format, it starts with "Faster the world moves, the more important it becomes to slow down and look within for what makes us truly happy."
Really short read on success through spirituality.. this book didnt do much to me .. i dont regret since this is extremely a short book .. you could spend a few minutes to read through.. read if you are a fan of Yogananda .. otherwise.. dont bother
TimelessGreat little book with timeless words of wisdom! However, this was not in true Paramahansa Yogananda's usual and engaging style of writing. Reads more like a pamphlet with a summary of points to remember! Over priced!
This tiny book packs a powerful punch. I highly recommend it be read and applied by all of us. Thank you.
Good short readVery nice book that reminds you of spiritual ways of success. All things come from the source and this book help you connect to the source.
Direct, easy to read, profound. Enjoyed this short read and recommend to anyone pursuing a spiritual journey. I read on my Kindle.
Short sweet and to the point.
This is easily one of the smallest books that I have read. Good advice. Useful if you want to use as (like most self help books)
SuccessHe is happiest and most successful who has found GOD!~ Parmahansa Yogananda A most wonderful book on Life! Great read, Very Deep!
Small little pocket book...was a gift. Nice to read, can read little snippets.
UsefulThere is much good to consider in this book. People of all faiths can find affirmation in Yogananda's teaching. This is a book that I have no problem recommending.
Quick and easy read with profound insights that, when put into practice, can change your outlook on life and how you live it.
Exactly what you would expect a Yogi to say.I can only say good things about this book. If you practice what he has told you, dreams will become reality.
Nice little book with good teachings on success. It's so short that there's no excuse not to read it.
ok
