https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8650.The_Lost_World
Muldoon shook his head.The epilogue mentions the Costa Rican government not permitting the burial of John Hammond or Ian Malcolm (amongst a list of other ways they dragged their feet and covered things up).
Malcolm's "death" in JP was not seen, and only vaguely mentioned (unlike every other major character who died in the book).
Also, the explanation given in The Lost World as to why the others thought he was dead was completely plausible - he was simply so close to death that he was left for dead.I'll get off of my soapbox now.
The story goes that Steven Spielberg flush with the success of the first Jurassic Park movie, itself an adaptation of a Michael Chrichton novel, decided to try and repeat his success by commissioning the author to write a sequel to his original novel (which the first movie was based on) which they could then adapt into a movie.Whether or not that's true I cannot say but I will say that do not base your initial judgement of this book or the prospect of reading it on the lacklustre utter turkey that the film turned out to be.In many respects, the novel is everything the film should have been and wasn't.
Hell, the way the characters started to get out of their last little fix was complete B.S. that came from a bogus thought process from one of the kids.One random compliment that (unfortunately) has nothing to do with the author's writing ability: He took the Carnotaurus that I'm familiar with from the simulator ride Dinosaur!
He looks around for a tool to use to beat the beast to smithereens, getting more and more anxiously panicked, trying desperately to think of anything, when suddenly he sees....And the dino roared and started charging."Whether the reader is supposed to feel exhilaration from the suspense, offense from being insulted, or just frustration with the irrational and incomplete descriptions, I won't pretend to know.
I will start my review by saying that I did not enjoy this novel nearly as much as the first book, Jurassic Park. While this was an incredibly easy and fast read, I would have preferred if Crichton had cut roughly a hundred pages of additional information that, in my opinion, did not add to the story. Other than that, wow! What an adrenaline-charging, action-packed book! Crichton sure knew how to grab his audience by the hand and take them on a roller-coaster into a whole other world—a world in which you are sure to get Lost, ha-ha!
As the story progressed and I waited impatiently to find out: would they actually solve the mystery of the missing Dr Levine and go to the island of dinosaurs--as if there was a chance of that not happening--I was introduced to a series of these weak characters and it then became a struggle to decide who I wanted to be eaten first.Initially I really wanted one or both of the two genius kids to get chomped.
What I’m mad about, is that Hollywood took a beautiful book and hacked it into pieces and tried to dazzle us with animatronic dinosaurs.
Okay so I like animatronic dinosaurs too, but still- there was no need.The plot is this: Dr. Levine suspects something happened that involved Dr. Ian Malcolm in Costa Rica six years ago.
I’m glad he was resurrected because truth be told, he’s a much more interesting character than Dr. Grant.Sarah Harding.
Kelly becomes a little Sarah Harding in her own right.Were there as many dinosaurs in this as in Jurassic Park?
It's a little slower to get going than Jurassic Park, but it's still pretty damned fabulous.
24/9/2016It takes a decent chunk of time for the story to get going in this one, but once it does, it's pretty damned fabulous.
Honestly, I think my favourite thing in this book is something that I only noticed on this reread: somewhere around the turn of the century, Sir Arthur Conan Doyle wrote a very silly but thoroughly enjoyable adventure novel called The Lost World in which a group of explorers travel to South America and discover a plateau on which dinosaurs still live.
Michael Crichton always gives good science and when you add in dinosaurs, it should be great.
For instance, I now know why human babies are totally helpless for the first couple of years of their lives, whereas some baby animals can walk a few minutes after birth - you'll have to read the book to find out why.It's very obvious that he is full of great ideas, but this plot is paper thin and the characters are all one dimensional.
His experts are geniuses with little or no backstory, family or kids.
His token woman is a tough naturalist, with little or no backstory, family or kids; and his two child heroes, are geniuses who cope astonishingly well, when their lives are under threat from man eating dinosaurs.
I have to say that I do enjoy the writing style of Michael Crichton and although he has had his share of varying popularity I always feel I can trust his writing to deliver (even if to some that feels safe and uninspiring) Anyway I digress - this was the second of his Jurassic Park novels and again a loose basis for the film (it still fascinates me how the first book and film diverge, digressing again), however the film was such a success there is little of surprise to the book, for me it was more the pace.The book very quickly sets the scene and then throws you to the 'raptors as it were with action happening fast and nonstop.
he died in Jurassic Park, but since they couldn't convince Sam Neill to return for the movie, Crichton rewrote history so that Malcolm somehow survived (never mind that they verified he was dead, and then the whole island was napalmed with his corpse on it).The second problem is that every single important person in The Lost World is some sort of certifiable genius.
And, naturally, the geniuses survive because they are geniuses, while the bad guys all die because they are not so smart.The Lost World is Crichton's way of effectively kissing his own ass.
Now that was really enjoyable!! I really loved all the science and theories.
Ok so this book gained an extra star because Lex was not in it.
But lets get to why this book got two stars.
(view spoiler)[Malcolm lived....yeah I am all for the fact he lived because I loved him in the film but in the book...WTF?
Eddie died....yeah I called it early on that Eddie was going to die.
in a mother fucking cage.....They carried the cage off and took him hostage....Like, what they are going to sit down and negotiate with Malcolm?
(hide spoiler)]And that is why I gave this book two stars.
I still maintain that without Ian Malcolm this book would've received a 2-2.5 star rating because without his snark I would've been bored to deathhhh. As it is, 4 stars feels generous but that ending just put me in a good mood. Good book, not sure it was necessary because nothing will top the original, but Malcolm spits so much truth about theories and what humans think we know that I'd say it deserves a read if you liked Jurassic Park....Can we have the new Jurassic World movie now plz?
Better than the first book and great narration by Anthony Heald. A sense of peril that is not evident in the film.
Hammond has stayed dead (unlike Malcolm) so we need a new reason to head back into dino territory and that reason comes in the form of a curious scientist, Levine, who strikes up a bizarre friendship with Malcolm based on the theoretical idea of a 'lost world' - an isolated location where animals previously considered extinct may have actually survived.
But it comes thick and fast and this book is far more interested in examining theories of dinosaur behaviour and extinction than bringing the thrills and chills that the first book delivered so brilliantly.
In case you missed it, not too long ago I was raving about Jurassic Park. I hadn't read the book before and was instantly obsessed. Needless to say, I was quick to pick up The Lost World, because sequels = more dinosaurs. While I didn't end up obsessing over The Lost World quite as much as JP, the 12-year-old boy in me was still satisfied by T-Rex scares, human-eating dinosaurs, and terrifying AF raptors.What I didn't like quite as much:  It seemed just a tad-bit more science-y. Lots and lots
In case you missed it, not too long ago I was raving about Jurassic Park.
I hadn't read the book before and was instantly obsessed.
While I didn't end up obsessing over The Lost World quite as much as JP, the 12-year-old boy in me was still satisfied by T-Rex scares, human-eating dinosaurs, and terrifying AF raptors.What I didn't like quite as much:
This book is about perhaps finding the remnants of Jurassic Park, so as a reader I knew everything wasn't going to be all hunky-dory this time.
There's all sorts of fun people-running-away-from-dinosaurs bits in this.
Ian Malcolm returns, as does Dodgson, there are other dinosaur and mammalian experts involved (of course, they are all considered the best in the world), and the story could not be complete without two out-of-place brilliant children with knowledge and skills well above their actual level - particularly in the field of computers.[return][return]But that must be taken with a grain of salt, and Crichton forgiven, as he never planned on writing a sequel.
Maybe every few eons, some animal comes along that kills off the rest of the world, clears the deck, and lets evolution proceed to its next stage.[return][return]The Lost World is a thrilling adventure that should not be missed by any reader who enjoys dinosaurs, thrillers, excitement or adventure.
È come Jurassic Park, ma sbiadito. Ci sono tutti i contenuti del primo libro (dinosauri, isola, umani stupidi ed avidi, umani scienziati e più attenti , matematici e geni del computer, ragazzini), ma il tutto si armonizza di meno.
Note to self: if I am EVER stuck on an island with dinosaurs, do not be a jerk or I'm guaranteed to be eaten by a T-Rex. Also, if I ever need to look up anything on a computer, ask a kid because apparently adults cannot operate them.The Jurassic Park adventures are always fun.
There is a time and place for those, and sure, it can be interesting - but when you are being hunted by dinosaurs is not that time!I did enjoy the book, and would have given it another star if a couple more of the adults had been eaten.
Not as good as the first one, but still great.
It's very sciencey and if that's your thing, then you'll love this too.
I personally love the more sciencey side of things and can totally relate to Ian Malcolm and the other scientists whenever they correct people's use of common animal names and instinctively blurt out the scientific name.
I feel like there was a little less action this time round and some people would probably dislike that but obviously we've moved past the first stage of the park and now we're dealing with the drama from the first book as well as investigating the survival of dinosaurs.
A really good read!
Well to be honest, I had watched the film adaptation before reading the novel.
It was kind of funny since in the first novel he was basically this "Chaotician" who joined along for the ride at the park with all these dino experts who critisized everything (What made me laugh was that he was right) and now we see him kind of leading things and having his own ideas on the dinosaurs which almost makes him look like a different character.
he did definately differ from his film counterpart but I think he was a better character in the novel version.This like Jurassic Park was a long buddy of mine since I couldn't put the book down.
However the book had overall made me interested and think about certain ideas overlooked.
The author is so intent upon pushing Chaos Theory upon the reader that he often forces the characters to behave way, way, WAY out of their habits in order to force things to go wrong.People suddenly do really stupid things.
As he wrote this book, the author knew that he would have a film deal upon completion.
It involved the best animal scientists in the world making a mistake that would have been caught by the folks at your local zoo.It was kind of like watching people play craps in an alley with a math professor.
If you watch the movie you'll at least get to see the dinosaurs running around.
Malcolm spent the 2nd half of this book injured and half delirious.
He spent more than the 2nd half of the 1st book injured, as well!So, I gave this book 3 stars instead of 2 because there was a little bit of excitement when Sarah Harding, the only women amongst a bunch a men, saved everyone's life, including both children.
Seriously!I also rounded up with my rating because I happen to find any discussion regarding evolution my glass of wine.
It is one subject I LOVE to discuss or read about.
The Lost World takes place six years after the Jurassic Park incident, and just like in the movie version, Dr. Alan Grant and Dr. Sattler did not return but Dr. Ian Malcolm does return for his role.
The Lost World was an entertaining read, although I'll say not as good as Jurassic Park, for a number of reasons, but I won't go into all of them.
Like I said, it's not up there with Jurassic Park but still worth reading.
Quando i dinosauri dominavano la terra Divertente intrattenimento da leggere sotto l'ombrellone.Persa completamente la profondità contenutistica dell'opera precedente, l'infausto ritorno a Isla Sorna promette frizzanti guazzabugli preistorici con dinosauri esagitati e piuttosto birichini.Certo, lo svolgimento è piuttosto scolastico e non aiuta l'oramai assente fattore sorpresa (vantaggio di cui il primo libro e relativo adattamento cinematografico hanno goduto).
Read it, liked it, Jurassic Park was better. What I loved about this book and still remember pretty well--it taught me about Chaos Theory, which fascinated me for quite a while after reading this.
Great read
For me, a disappointment after the first Jurassic Park, but still a great read.
It is unfair to draw comparisons and yet there was a sense of this story walking over very well worn terrain and that felt like a let-down for me.To borrow from the title, the key characters of this novel explore a clichéd lost world : the land that time forgot and one where dinosaurs still roam free.
Crichton makes it amply clear that there is no love lost between Harding and Levine and yet she does not think twice before leaving her field research and travelling to Costa Rica (which she had not much prior knowledge about).
Obviously, there are braver souls than me, even if they are fictional. I'm content to read about these characters who willingly share space with T-Rex and Velociraptors. It's safe in my armchair and I don't need to worry about being some dinosaur's next lunch.There were thrills and chills, and there was science and theory. Get the adrenaline up, then bore us to tears with dry facts. Perhaps it's a good balance.Still, it was fun to imagine.
