https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/391848.Letters_to_Philip
Miguel and I give this humble little book credit for turning our marriage in to a much needed better direction.
And miguel is not much of a book guy.
I just couldn't put in back I had a one of those moments where you feel a tugg on the heart.
So I took it home and started reading it, i was hooked and Miguel noticed.
I think it was because I would laugh or mummble while reading it.
I honestly wasn't trying to make him feel left out.
Any way this is a great book and very fun to read.
My then-future father-in-law gave me this to read about a week before my wedding.
The book's subtitle is "on how to treat a woman." A rule that has served me well is to always read books which one's future father in law gives one pertaining to how one ought treat his daughter.
Anyway, some people might consider this backwards or sexist (there is a lot in here about the role of the man in 'dealing with her moods' and the like) but I thought it was excellent and have no doubt that it has served me well and will continue to do so.
Helpful. Insightful. Encouraging. Challenging. Directive. Humorous. Speaking from experience. Practical. Short.
Wish I had this book years ago. Would've helped to save my last marriage. My son will read this book and learn much needed lessons.
This book, a loaner from a respected co-worker, turned out to be useful and fun to read...despite their warnings about how dated some of the opinions and mind-sets may be.
That warning was true and useful; however, the general utility of the book overshadows the 1950s He-Man and She-Woman mindset.
Any close reader should be able to get past that and to the meat, which is life lessons from a preacher-dad to his newlywed son about how to be a good husband.
If the goal is to provide good, basic reminders and insights to a newlywed husband, then this book succeeds.
Worth a read...presuming you are a newlywed husband...
Marriage and life lessons every father should give to their sons.
Wow, this is one of the best books ever read!
Each chapter is a letter with lots of lessons on how to be a good husband and how to build and maintain a great relationship.
I think this book is the best gift for each man who plans to get married.
Each letter will definitely make a difference in your life.
I have taken a lot of notes on which I have to improve and then came back revisit this book more often.
It's a must read!!!
I've read this book several times. Each letter is short and to the point which makes this book an easy read. The author covers subjects that every man should know about. Some men (and women) might think this book is old-fashioned and sexist. As a woman, I often had to chuckle to myself because the author was right on. One can easily tweak the information to bring it up to date, but I would say that most of the information is very applicable.
So yes, it does read as though it were written several decades ago, and yes, the author is a bit constricted by the gender roles of his time period, but in this little book Charlie Shedd gives sound marital advice to his son. The chapters are short--they're just brief letters, actually--so it's great for the back of the toilet :)
Letters to Philip is the collection of letters written by a father to his son before his marriage. I'm sure most future wives who read this would agree that they would want their husbands to learn from it. I say this, because I would like it too if my husband would read this.
So glad my dad recommended this book to me.
My father thoughtfully gave me this to read when it was 'that time' in my life.
this is a great book. i read this so long ago, and ever since i started relationship counseling this year i decided to have a re-read. ive learned so much again. points i had forgotten, different points i had not realized before, points i remembered but now i can look at differently since im older. i believe this is probably a book to last generations and still be awesome. a definite must. going to try and get my hands on letters to Karen as well since that was the original
Este es un libro excelente para entender la mejor manera de relacionarnos con nuestra esposa. A pesar de ello, por ser ya viejo el libro, hay elementos a analizar pues el contexto cambia.A pesar de ello, es un buen libro.
