https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2155.Jane_Austen_s_Letters
I did wish Jane would have a thought that wasn't sheer gossip!But as the years went by, and as more letters to maturing nieces and nephews were included, the book grew that more interesting.
So at the end, hearing her struggle to overcome her illness, reading her will and then the letters from Cassandra regarding Jane's death - I feel that I have lost a real friend.
I had got to know Jane Austen a little bit better.
This was a really great look into this time period - although I was painfully aware that this was a well-to-do white woman, especially when she seemed to spend a lot of her time discussing gossip, visits, and clothes. I liked the second half better, when she's talking more about writing and events, and there are more letters to her nieces and nephews. What an excellent large family! I especially admired Cassandra and Jane's close relationship.
Even if these letters weren't by Jane Austen, they'd be worth reading for the way they take you right into the lives lived by the lower country gentry in the late Georgian era.
From the loving, gentle and comforting letters to her sister and relatives, to the formal business correspondence concerning her novels, her endearing childhood rhymes composed for the amusement of her nieces, her harsh and sarcastic portrayals of her surroundings and acquaintances, and the mournful accounts of death and loss; these letters show Jane Austen from as many angles as humanly possible.Of course I delighted in the letters that involved literary criticism and details of her reading material along with her own reflections on the construction of her novels, but I also enjoyed forming a clear picture of her simple everyday life.
As I reached the last letters, and finally read Cassandra's grievous account of Jane's death, I felt like I had gotten to know my literary idol a bit better.
I find this book impossible to rate in term of stars.
It's a brick of a book of which almost half is footnotes; extremly well researched.
On the other hand it's a brick of a book and almost half the book is footnotes so physically difficult to read and nearly impossible to get through.
I did it through sheer stuborness.
All the spelling mistakes are kept which is great for accuracy but a small hell to read.
The letters(as is always the case) are what they are.
This book is great for researchers because it contains a wealth of information.
Her wit and humor resonate on every page—find out just how delightful Jane would be to sit next to at a dinner party, and how much more clever her catty observations would be than your own. Exceptionally footnoted by scholar (and Austen devotee) Deidre Le Faye.
A close reading of these letters quickly dispels any illusions of Austen as a proper, humourless, spinster aunt. Austen's letters are funny, witty, and occasionally downright cruel.
A joy to read. It's like having afternoon tea with Elizabeth and Jane Bennet, or Marianne and Elinor Dashwood. All the tidbits of daily living, in such a neighbourhood as theirs, circa late 18th, early 19th Century. Nothing could satisfy more!
This was a wonderful collection of letters. Austen had an amazing command of words and you see her wit and imagination shine through in every seemingly little detail of daily life and gossip. Not exactly sure why I'm only giving it four stars, perhaps because I would have enjoyed reading it better in a different format, perhaps because I mourn the days of letter writing, perhaps because of the sadness that none of these wonderful communications were directed to me by what was obviously, an admirable mind.Highly recommended.
Jane Austen's letters are wonderful reading--pithy, scathing and hilarious observations of her world and the people in it to her sister Cassandra, and interesting advice on writing and love to her nieces Anna and Fanny. For the Austen aficinadoas, I'd definitely recommend this complete, chronological collection of the known surviving letters over some of the illustrated compilations out there.
I suppose it was partly a desire to find out more about Austen - her life, manners, company - but also to see whether reading the letters would in any way change my opinion of her work.In the past, when letter-writing was not just something people did in olde-worlde movies, and the only way to convey news was through paper and ink, many famous writers and politicians elevated letter-writing to the status of a kind of art.
Though the letters themselves were incredibly interesting - revealing the voice in which Jane Austen addressed the people she knew best - I couldn't help wondering if perhaps I had intruded on things that were just a little too private, even after two hundred years.

I did learn that the letters that were destroyed and censored by her surviving sister usually had to do with areas where she had described physical symptoms or made mildly disparaging remarks about family members, and not big juicy secret romance stuff as I had imagined.
Has a series of great other features- a notes section detailing how each note was obtained, exactly what it looked like, when it was published, also a biographical index detailing who all the people are, where all the places are and an exhaustive index.
Excellent.
Conscious of every word she puts down, as one might expect such a great stylist to be.
I can't help but hold it against Cassandra Austen that she burnt a good number of Jane Austen's letters.
Written with a good deal of irony and sensitivity; the snippets -- few as they are -- regarding her art and the art of others are quite invaluable.
The only thing that irked me was 1.
the loss of letters, attributable to CEA, and 2.
the proliferation of dashes and lack of paragraphing which made several letters difficult to read.
Una excelente recopilación de las cartas de la conocida escritora.
Ha sido muy interesante poder conocer a Jane Austen como escritora, saber cómo era su día a día, como se relacionaba con los demás, como reaccionaba ante la publicación de sus obras...
El final de su vida es muy triste y su hermana Cassandra lo relata muy bien en una carta a su sobrina Fanny.
Normalmente no dejo aquí enlaces a las reseñas de mi blog, pero puesto que esta vez he publicado antes la reseña que mi opinión aquí, lo dejaré para quien quiera conocer más a fondo mi opinión: http://excentriks.blogspot.com.es/201....
It's Jane Austen's letters, enough said, really.I wish there were more, but I cherish what we have, every trimmed bonnet, every ell of lace, every bit of fretting about who her niece is going to marry. It's fascinating actually to consider how many people write books set in the period without having read these, when they're so full of the minutiae.And... this isn't a review, but it's a response. I wouldn't have written this without reading these letters: https://www.patreon.com/posts/jane-au...
This is an amazingly well researched book of JA's letters, notes on pretty much everything you can think of (watermarks, postmarks, corrections she made, historical information), multiple indexes. I did struggle with this book, due to its size and flipping back and forth - I read the letter first, then the notes for that letter. I would recommend this (hardcover) book to anyone who loves JA, with scholarly ambitions or just for pleasure.
Sometimes I don't want to know who the authors are because I only want to know them through their fiction and not the non-fiction which is their lives. But these letters help you understand that Jane was alive and well despite her lack of a fortunate marriage. These letters show that she was simply applying herself to her life not in an effort to prove or show anything - more for something to occupy her hours. Not a bad way to spend your time - certainly beats youtube.
I am a JA addict. I read her books and letters over and over again. This time I am struck how kind and loving she was to her nieces, especially Fanny Knight, and what a backstabbing niece Fanny was much later in life toward her dead aunt.
What else is there to say about Jane Austen's letters? A glimpse of a life, and nothing more. Tantalizing and endearing and faithful to the end.
I've read many of Austen's letters and loved them, and while I intend to finish this edition, there's quite a lot to get through for one big chunk of reading. Will have to read in smaller pieces.
A great read for any Austen fan! I particularly enjoyed reading her love advice and when she'd mention her characters.
It gives a great insight into Jane Austen's character and also what Cassandra Austen may have been like. Very interesting.
Do not read this book unless you are prepared to laugh at her wit and her humor in the letters.
Do not read this book unless you are prepared to, once in a while, utter an amused (and scandalized), "Jane!".
Do not read this book unless you are prepared to slowly become aware of her maturing through the mere tone in her letters.
Do not read this book unless you are prepared to cry bitterly over the last few letters, recounting her death.
If you are prepared for all these things, then please, read this book.
Read this book and learn to love Jane Austen all the more dearly.
Okay, this is a read mostly for the Austen fanatic.
But I loved it.
Austen was so funny and kind with her family, even when she was talking about the most mundane parts of her life.it was fascinating to see her life through these surviving fragments.
The moments she talks about her novels, even though they’re almost always in passing.
What I found most endearing were the letters towards the end when she was giving her nieces feedback on their writing.
It’s just so sweet and makes me love her all the more.
good insight into Austen's personality and style, often rather humorous
So boring. Such a shame that the good letters were destroyed.
Il est toujours intéressant pour une fan de lire quelque chose de la main de Jane Austen. J'aurais par contre apprécié que ces lettres soient commentées par un historien ou un expert, car il est difficile de les mettre en contexte.
In Jane Austen’s novels, there’s a lot of attention paid to the little details in the character’s daily lives.
(okay, I might be exaggerating here, but still pretty cool).In general, this book accounts for a good picture of what Jane Austen was, her relationships with her nephews and nieces, and especially her sister, are shown here as directly as they can ever be.
I really enjoyed that aspect: how she trusted Cassandra with everything, and to her encouragement to one of her nieces, Anna Lefroy (yes, like that Lefroy), to become a writer.In a way, reading this book made Jane Austen more real.
As it's a scholarly work, though, it's a bit difficult to get through this book, because it's a doorstop - Jane wrote a lot of letters!
I ended up putting a bookmark in the notes section corresponding to where I was in the letter, and not bothering to check unless it was something I really wanted to know more about.
I loved the parts where Jane was writing about the publication of one of her books.
I liked that the collection concludes with a couple of letters from Cassandra to Jane's relatives, talking about her death and the funeral.
