https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/331029.The_Marvellous_Land_of_Snergs
Precioso y olvidadísimo clásico infantil ilustrado por George Morrow.Sylvia y Joe viven en una isla aislada, donde está ubicada la Sociedad para el Amparo de los Niños Sobrantes (S.A.N.S), dirigida por la señora Watkyns, que con sus ayudantes recoge a los niños huérfanos o maltratados de nuestro mundo y se los lleva allí, donde olvidan y viven felices.
También habitan la isla Vanderdecker, los marineros del Holandés Herrante y los snergs...
un buen libro de aventuras.Como curiosidad, Tolkien se lo leía a sus hijos y los snergs le sirvieron de inspiración para crear a los hobbits.
J.R.R. Tolkien loved this book and read it to his children, and it's easy to see some of the inspiration for The Hobbit in its pages, from Gorbo's character growth to the peace and new understanding found between peoples where violent conflict seemed inevitable.
There is!) A few small details show the book's age, especially with regard to Sylvia's character, but on the whole this is a deeply enchanting read that refuses either to take itself too seriously or to talk down to its audience, and thus it offers rewards for both the adult and the child reader.
Not just the Snergs were Tolkien's inspiration for his own work, but also giant cats of Mother Meldrum, the witch that is mentioned in the second half of the book.
Being adventurous, they find themselves in a dark forest near the bay, where they discovered twisted trees (another similarity with the same scene in Tolkien's "The Hobbit"), met Gorbo the Snerg and soon after found-out an hidden door inside of the tree, through which they entered into another land, "beyond the great, deep river", as it was described by its inhabitants.
They had a quote from Tolkein that "this was his source book for the Hobbit" and that he'd read it to his own children.
Okay, says me, we'll try it.My kids loved this book.
And my husband loved reading it to them.
Every night I'd hear them laughing away and then they'd be talking about it the next day.It has a very Tolkein/Narnia type feel to it and was just plain fun.
The language is a bit difficult but not so much that they couldn't understand it.We had relatives visit while we were reading this and they took turns reading to the kids and they thoroughly enjoyed it as well.Try this little known gem.
El Maravilloso País de los Snergs es una historia de fantasía y aventuras llena de momentos absurdamente entretenidos que llamarán la atención a lectores de todas las edades.Reseña completa EN MI BLOG
A really fun and not well know fairy-tale which was loved by J.R.R. Tolkien and his children.
The story begins on a remote Island where a Miss Watkyns harbors unwanted and neglected children.
Here we encounter Snergs who are very short and wide.
Joe and Sylvia, two of Miss Watkyns harbored children, become restless and decide to run off to avoid more punishment.
Gorbo, a bumbling but very sweet Snerg, has run out of chances with his king and ends up sharing this adventure with our two run aways.
So I suggest you read this for yourself and then share it with your children or grand-children.
(Society for the Removal of Superfluous Children) has established a colony for children unwanted by their parents, at Watkyns Bay which cannot be reached from the ordinary world unless you know how.
Two of the children, Sylvia and Joe, are caught making mischief, and run away from Watkyns Bay to the nearby land of the Snergs.
Adventures ensue, with an ogre, a witch, a jester, a rumored tyrant king who turns out to be benevolent, and the faithful companionship of a Snerg named Gorbo.
Much of the charm of the book is in the beginning.
Unfortunately, the middle sags badly, and for a while we seem trapped in a nonsense book.
But once the story starts, there is much for that younger audience to appreciate: a young boy and girl and their puppy for protagonists, a lovable but bungling Snerg, Gorbo, who will do whatever it takes to protect those children, a witch, a (not so) reformed ogre, knights, kings, castles, a beautiful princess, multiple feasts, an incorrigible jester, armies, dangerous escapes, etc.
7/10Me lo he pasado muy bien leyéndolo :). Me apetecía leer algo así, un libro ligero, juvenil y de fantasía. Por la forma de narrar y el tipo de historia me ha hecho recordar la saga de Las crónicas de Narnia, he tenido una sensación parecida a cuando los leí (y eso es genial, porque les tengo mucho cariño).
Most EnjoyableFun and Delightful. This light little book is an enjoyable read. Recommend it for adults and children. Enjoy it at bedtime or on the beach.
Another odd book from my children's literature class. Snergs themselves not bad. Liked the court jester the most of the humans.
Een alleraardigst kinderboek uit 1928, dat als inspiratie diende voor J.R.R. Tolkien en J.K. Rowling (Tolkien spreekt zelfs zijn waardering voor het boek uit op de achterzijde en in het bijzonder voor de Snerg Gorbo). Het niveau van hun werk haalt het niet, maar de humoristische opmerkingen van de schrijver tijdens het verhaal maken het zeker de 'moeite' waard om Het Wonderbaarlijke Snergenland te lezen. Opmerkelijk: er komen Hollandse zeevaarders uit de 17e eeuw voor in het boek!
nl: het wonderbaarlijke snergenland.Het is een prima boek om voor te lezen. Een aanrader voor de bovenbouw van het PO.De humor spreekt mij erg aan, zo ook de fantasie.Het avontuur bestaat uit een reeks kleine avonturen waardoor het verhaal spannend blijft.Ik zie waarom Tolkien geïnspireerd werd. Dit is De hobbit voor kinderen.
The Marvellous Land of Snergs is a lost classic which was thought to be the inspiration for Tolkien's The Hobbit. One can definitely identify analogous events between the two works. More importantly, I felt the same uplifting spirit from both. Snergs may be enjoyed as simply a fairy tale but may also be appreciated as a philosophical character-building adventure.
A entertaining story in the vein of the Chronicles of Narnia. The story follows to children in their adventures int he Land of Snergs (kind of a cross between Dwarves and Goblins) and beyond. The characters are entertaining and some moral lessons are present. How ever the story doesn't seem to have a specific direction and bounces from unrelated adventure to unrelated adventure.
A sweet, but witty, story that my three daughters loved. Elements from the Snergs certainly inspired Tolkien and Lewis. The writing style prefigures Lemony Snicket in some ways. Recommended for imaginative lovers of fantasy and fairy tales.
I'll keep this book, but it will be many years before I ever pick it up again. Although I don't find it particularly engaging, I do appreciate the overall humor and plentiful silliness. If I had a bookshelf titled keep for my children, I would put this on it.
I came to this book through annotations in the Annotated Hobbit. One can, indeed, see the similarities between Wyke-Smith and early Tolkien. A fun little book that is enjoyable for its nostalgiac feel as well as the story itself and the fairy-tale sense of play it evokes.
I read this out of interest because it's a source book for Tolkien's "The Hobbit". I suppose I was meant to find this a charming and silly children's adventure, but for me it was a slogfest. Forgive me Tolkien!
A delightful fantasy tale. I gave it 5 stars not only due to my own enjoyment, but because I could see myself reading this book to my son at bedtime (if I had discovered it sooner; he is 18 now).
A fun romp.
forgotten classic
Funny and sweet, if somewhat meandering.
It's a children's book, but an amusing and classic one.
A very merry story about the adventures of two children, it filled me with smiles and I would love to befriend the jester!
This is a fun book
I loved this book I can't beleive I never heard about it until I joined GoodReads.
Main snerg Gorbo and the Jester Baldry were a real hoot! Cute book.
Ogres, witches, Dutchmen soldiers, and Snergs. Lots of adventure here. This book was apparently a favorite of the Tolkien family and after reading it with my 9-year old I can see why!
This is a very funny book! I've been thinking of the book as a Tolkien favorite and was not expecting the humor, although I should have known better - his gaggle of children really enjoyed it.
