https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1601128.The_Christ_of_the_Indian_Road
Great reminder to keep our focus on Christ.
Our focus is to be on Him, on the the 'who' of Christ, rather than getting sidetracked and overly caught up in the 'whats' of Christianity.
...He creates belief." "If some are afraid of what might happen if we were to give India Jesus without hard-and-fast systems of thought and ecclesiastical organization, lest the whole be corrupted, let our fears be allayed.
Jesus is well able to take care of Himself.""We who feel that we must be steadiers of the ark must remember that Jesus can take care of himself, even in moments when there seems most to fear." (pp.
There are three books which have drastically affected my daily life with profound teaching and wisdom; this book is one of them.
E. Stanley Jones lays out very profound teachings in a simple way.
That could speak to the fact that I had a very weak understanding, and maybe it does, but more so, it speaks to the fact that Jones, through the Holy Spirit, taught and continues to teach through his books in a very enlightening way!
Please, read this book if you are a follower of Jesus!
If you aren't, read it, too!
E Stanley Jones is writing from a wealth of wisdom in missions to the Hindu populations of India. I was deeply struck by his love for India and her people. As I was reading, it felt as if I was just sitting at the feet of this man as he recounted his experiences and Christ's movements in India. Super cool book.
Just Jesus.The more I think about this book, the more I like it.
This book helped me think through these things and understand the figure of Jesus better because He is the God that loved the world not just western civilization.A few quotes from the ever quotable E Stanley Jones:Besides, let it be noted that if Christianity isn’t worth exporting it isn’t worth keeping.
We have tried to get the church to realize it’s joyous privilege of soul-winning.Jesus does not need to be protected.
He protects Himself.Check it out and let me know what you think!
What a great book, so glad I discovered E.
Stanley Jones recently!
This is one of the best books I’ve ever read, with so many memorable quotes that I felt like I was marking up every page.
I was also amazed that so many issues he writes about in 1925 are relevant to today, like racial divides and immigration policy - it makes me realize we haven’t grown much as a society.
E. Stanley Jones also emphasizes the need to keep it simple when going to other countries with the message of Christ, and let Him do the rest.
Go out and get this book!
What a hope saturated read! Jones seems to have deeply known the person of Jesus--the book practically oozes the gracious spirit of the King. This is a profound, mature, and lively reflection on learning to love and live across culture and religion in the way of Jesus. Highly recommend.
Great book on missiology There is much that can be extracted from this pivotal work regarding how to have a missional approach to the people/placed God has called you too. E. Stanley Jones taught me to bring Jesus everywhere. Make Him simple. Proclaim unadulterated. Introduce Him to and trust Him with others. Be a learner of world-views and see where Christ is looking to fulfill because all truth is God’s truth. Saturate in Him daily and let the saturation pour to the hungry souls searching for it though they don’t know it yet. So good. Read it.
I am somewhat stunned by how well written and thoughtful this book is, given that it was written in 1925. He records talking with Gandhi many times, and thinks of his campaign as a noble failure, which, of course, is what it was in 1925. Though his vocabulary of Christianization is not going to read well, his sense that Indian people should be encouraged to accept Jesus without the accompanying burden of Christianity as the west has practiced it is well thought through, especially for the time in which it was written.
I read the Dutch translation of this book: Christus langs den Indischen heirweg.
One of my favorite books of all time. Mind-shifting. It changed my world view about Jesus and freed me up to just offer Jesus to my friends and not a religion.
I loved it. I loved it. I loved it.
It seems remarkably contemporary, although Christians reading it today might feel a little less optimistic than Jones did then.His overall thesis, as I understood it, is that he didn't come to India to bring Western civilization, or even to bring Christianity, but to bring Christ.
Jones was a contemporary and friend -- and eventually a biographer -- of Mahatma Gandhi, and the chapter on Gandhi is particularly interesting.But the whole book is inspirational, powerful and oh so reasonable.Here are a few excerpts:Christ must be in an Indian setting.
His approach made me think of "Jesus Plus Nothing", a phrase associated with the Fellowship, and it is worth noting that Jones was also an associate of Abraham Vereide.One chapter deals with "the Great Hindrance" to evangelism: western racism.
This prompts one of the strangest passages in the book:At question time a voice came out of the back of the crowd, "What do you think of the KKK?" This was about four years ago, when I had scarcely heard of the Klan myself.
This is now standard mission thinking--however imperfectly realized--but probably seemed radical at the time.
Jones' expressed optimism about Jesus' teaching becoming accepted widely all across India; I suspect he would be discouraged that respect for Jesus has not led to more followers of Jesus.
The book is a surprisingly easy read, and has nuggets of wisdom that apply broadly to believers anywhere.
I was particularly struck by the chapter entitled "The Concrete Christ"; while it didn't particularly fit the logical flow of the book, Jones made an interesting case for Jesus acting and teaching in strong, specific "concrete" ways.
This book was published in 1925, and the author of this book had been a missionary in India for many years He felt himself to be a part of the country.
So I would say that the seeds he planted (e.g. his praise of Gandhi, and his call for people to interpret Christ within their own context) proved ultimately fruitful.
Though it took a long time, there has been some excellent, recent scholarship on the culturally interpreted Christ.
Jones was a missionary to India for many years, and during that time he was compelled to think about the message of Christ over and against the idea of Christ as propagated in the United States.
Jones was not given to criticizing other faiths (and is helpful in this regard), but he never sacrificed his belief that Jesus is the only true hope for the world.
It helps us to focus on the Christ of the Bible, not the Christ who has frequently been reinterpreted in light of modern sensibilities.
Written during the 1920s by an American missionary to India, this book discusses his experiences on the sub-continent, as well as the progress that Christianity had made with the Indians so far. The author does a good job of explaining India's particular religious genius, and how it can mix with Christianity. His theology is obviously orthodox, but he also includes many thoughtful reflections on the nature of Christ, and how to introduce Christ to a non-Christian society.
Excellent excellent book. Christianity above all revolves around the person of Jesus Christ--not on Western church traditions or colonial mindsets. Jones ably and creatively shows how Jesus is taking hold of the lives of Indians in the early 20th century, and hammers the truth that all Jesus-followers must continue to focus on the life and person of Jesus.
I read this book while I was serving as a missionary in India many years ago. For me is the best Christian book to help missionaries planning to serve in India. More than that it is a wonderful Chistology book.
Written originally in the 40s? Yet still very valid today. What we should always remember is that we are to talk about Christ above all. This is more important than trying to impose culture or what we would like to see....we are to talk Christ above all.
This quote, from Gandhi, pretty much says it all: "I would suggest, first, that all of you Christians, missionaries and all, must begin to live more like Jesus Christ."
Quite dated, but still very good. The most disappointing thing in the book is seeing some of the potential of the times that was never realized. Still offers a lot of wisdom for today.
E. Stanley Jones shows how the message of Jesus has been Romanized, Westernized, evangelicalized. Dare we introduce Him to India and let Him make His home in Indian thought and culture?
This is one of the best books I have read in Seminary. I read a lot of books and this was one I loved! It speaks to who Jesus is and it is truly all about him!
"A good author to read on ecumenicalism, with Christ and the Gospel at the center."
Deep wisdom here on contextualization and Gospel ministry.
great book about how to do missions, timeless wisdom
