https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22341263-my-sister-s-grave
I can not I can notI can not giveI can not giveI can not give this book the full 5 starsI can not give this book the full 5 stars but I can give it 3.5 and round her up to 4 stars!!!Most mystery/thriller novels are fairly formulaic but while I know this, I generally don't feel it while I'm reading.
The story pretty much starts with the uncovering of remains that turn out to be Sarah's and thus it reopens old wounds for the town and for Tracy, who lost everything the day she lost her sister.
Twenty years ago Sarah and Tracy Crosswhite entered a shooting competition. The sisters were very close and Sarah knew a secret that something good was going to happen to Tracy so she wanted her to have the perfect day. She intentionally lost the shooting competition to her sister. Tracy leaves with her boyfriend for their special night, warning Sarah to make sure she took the main highway home. Sarah never made it home again.Sarah's disappearance destroyed Tracy's family and tore the small town
Twenty years ago Sarah and Tracy Crosswhite entered a shooting competition.
The sisters were very close and Sarah knew a secret that something good was going to happen to Tracy so she wanted her to have the perfect day.
Sarah never made it home again.Sarah's disappearance destroyed Tracy's family and tore the small town apart.
She gave up teaching and became a detective..always searching.Sarah's body then turns up in a shallow grave, Tracy returns to the small town with the same unanswered questions.
Everyone in town tells Tracy to let sleeping demons lie but she needs to have the truth, even if it means another trial for House.
The two sisters had been best of friends and Tracy has never forgiven herself for allowing Sarah to drive home alone.
Tracy has never been totally convinced of House's guilt and has continued digging into the case in an effort to satisfy herself of the fact that justice either was or was not done.As the book opens, Sarah's remains are finally found by two hunters in a heavily wooded area that had previously been covered by a lake.
The discovery of the body raises even more questions about the case against Edmund House and makes Tracy even more determined to make sure that the person who killed her sister pays the price.
Obsessed, maybe."Tracy Crosswhite still looks over her shoulder in the direction of her sister's murder twenty years ago.
Tracy re-invents herself from chemistry teacher to a Seattle detective leaving the likes of her small town of Cedar Grove in the rearview mirror.Her experiential background leaves an unsettled feeling about how the murder case was handled by the local police.
You all know what I'm talking about.Robert Dugoni creates his lead character as an intelligent, no nonsense, analytically reasoning female.
Just the way I like it.
Dugoni knows his way around a courtroom.
Tracy Crosswhite loses her sister, Sarah, who disappears without a trace, when they were young.
When someone is caught as the killer of her sister, Tracy doesn't believe he did it, for reasons of her own.Sarah's body is discovered and that sets the ball rolling for the appeasement and peace of mind for Tracy, and closure too.
These type of books are heavily attractive as a standalone effort.I liked this book.
I liked Tracy's near and dear people.
Of course, the murderer is found, Of course, Tracy gets closure, but the ride is well worth the read.
Twenty years ago, Tracy Crosswhite’s sister went missing.
Since then, Tracy has become a detective.
Though a convicted rapist was found guilty of her sister’s death, a body was never found, and Tracy has never felt certain that Edmund House was actually the killer.
When a body is found, Tracy returns to the small town in Washington state where she grew up and works with a friend from college who is now a lawyer to go over the court case again and find any holes in it in an effort to make sure they have the right killer.The characters are likeable and the ending is filled with satisfying twists and turns.
The Hook - My Sister’s Grave has been on my TBR list for a long time.
--SIR WILLIAM BLACKSTONE, Commentaries on the Laws of England”The Sinker - It’s twenty years, twenty long years to wonder where the body of your sister has been buried.
But no, she’s gone and the guilt is yours.The character outlined above is Tracy Crosswhite, now a Seattle homicide detective.
Is this the body of her long missing sister Sarah?
In flashbacks we come to know the Crosswhite family, particularly the bond between the sisters.
Dugoni is a very descriptive in this chilly cold case mystery both in character development and setting.
My Sister's Grave has a really interesting plot and grabbed me from the word go, I read up to the 80% mark in one sitting, then sadly had to sleep, but finished it when I woke up.
Tracy Crosswhite has spent twenty years questioning the facts surrounding her sister Sarah’s disappearance and the murder trial that followed.
The characters are really well written, I loved Tracy's loyalty and love for her dead sister, admired her for not giving up on seeking answers.
My interest in this series was peaked by two prequel short stories focused on Detective Tracy Crosswhite’s earlier days.
Though it’s not necessary to read the prequels before launching into the novels, Tracy’s early relationship with her future boss, Johnny Nolasco, is very entertainingly set forth in these shorts, especially The Academy, and both short stories are rated 5 stars by me.As My Sister’s Grave opens, Tracy is 42 years old and a Homicide Detective.
I am stoked to read more Tracy Crosswhite.My Sister’s Grave is a good solid start to the series.
I wish to thank Amazon Publishing, Thomas & Mercer and NetGalley for an ARC in exchange for an honest review."MY SISTER’S GRAVE" by Robert Dugoni is a great legal thriller mixed with a classic police procedural.
It is a gripping emotional and strong character-driven suspense legal thriller, of one woman’s mission to find her sister’s real killer.This book was very entertaining.
Tracy never believed he was the real killer.
It takes two things to make a great book (OK, that's oversimplified, but bear with me a sec): Being able to tell a good story, and being able to write well.
This book (like all Amazon's imprints--at least that I've read) needs a good proofreading: it lacks important commas, uses the wrong word repeatedly (compliment instead of complement; board instead of bored), and misplaces modifiers all over the place.
The book's worst failing is its lack of sentence variety.
But I doubt I'll read any more of this author's work unless his writing significantly improves.I received this review copy from the publisher on NetGalley.
A smart murder mystery, well-written, and a plot that is not too convoluted. Lead characters are believable. I particularly liked Sheriff Roy Calloway, 'tough as a two dollar steak'. I got a real kick out of George Bovine stopping by the office of Dan O'Leary. Okay, so it's a small town in Washington and not Chicago, but this couldn't have been inadvertent on the author's part. Loved it!This was a Kindle-First offering. Enjoyable read.
I listened to this after reading the succeeding 3 books. It's one of the best of the series. Very interesting, well done mystery with some great twists and turns.
The town of Cedar Grove put a man named Edmund House away for the crime, but something seemed off to Tracy...none of the evidence seemed right, but no one would listen to her.
The book goes back and forth between now and when Tracy and Sarah were last together.
These remains were proven to be Tracy's sister Sarah.
Dan decides to take on the case with Tracy because he can see the things she pointed out to him.
REALLY!?All in all, I liked the book a lot and I plan on reading more Tracy Crosswhite books.
My Sister’s Grave by Robert Dugoni is a 2014 Thomas & Mercer publicationThis book has been sitting in my TBR pile for a long time, but finally made it to the top of the heap.
In the years since her sister disappeared, Tracy quits her teaching job, moved to Seattle, and became a homicide detective, while working on her sister’s case whenever possible.
I’m not sure how she felt about the whole sordid mess once all was said and done, and I wonder if she feels the same way I do, but I do think she will be able to live her life fully now that she knows the whole truth about Sarah and what really happened to her.
Tracy's sister Sarah disappeared 20 years ago and Edmund House, a convicted rapist is accused and jailed for the murder, despite that they never found the body.
But Tracy never believed that Edmund was the real killer.
Now Sarah's body is finally discovered and Tracy sets out to find the real killer.
But it seems that there are people out there that don't want her to know the truth...I was quickly pulled into this story and read almost 60% of the book in one evening.
So that made sense that she wanted free him especially since it seemed that he could be framed for the murder.The ending.
It shows Tracy and her younger sister, Sarah, during their childhood and teen years.
Twenty years later, Tracy is a cop in Seattle, but returns to her childhood home when hunters find a burial site in the woods.
I liked Tracy's determination to do what she felt was right, her loyalty to her friends and colleagues, and her strength.
I really enjoyed the courtroom scenes and testimony.I read this book as a tribute to Kerry Hunter, a Goodreads friend, who recently passed away.
I knew it was a book Kerry loved because she had given it 5 stars and written a strong review.
The characters felt real (outside of the author having some fun with their names) and had some depth, but for some reason I was never fully invested in this book.I think what held me back from a higher rating was that this read very monotone for me.
I didn't think about this book once I finished reading for the night.
And I found myself often checking to see how many pages were left in the book..a big tell for me that I was ready to move on.
I already have book two in the series lined up, so I'm hoping I'll feel more connected with that one.
"I am not . . .""I am not afraid . . ." "I am not afraid of the dark" Strong. Very strong. One of the best heroines I read.Incredibly smart written.Solid crime suspense.Good romance part.Loved the book, hated the crime, cried for Sarah.Highly recommended!
A good start to the series, I liked Tracey Crosswhite more than I thought I would.
Tracey and her sister were inseparable and two of the best young shooters in Washington State.
On the evening that Tracy was to be engaged, her sister is abducted, however, Tracey never believes that the man who was convicted was the right person.
When her sisters bones are found and the accused is days away from execution, Tracey starts her own investigation from scratch.
One of her sisters best friends, who is now an attorney, helps Tracey and their budding romance is just enough to round out this good crime mystery.
Tracy Crosswhite is a great character and the beginning of this series! It was helpful that I read the prequel to get me wanting more and get background information on the characters.My Sister's Grave was a good mystery with a little love interest that I hope develops as the series continues.
I kept flicking the pages and ended up staying up very late [early hours of the morning and tired out the next day] to finish reading it.
This author can sure tell a story well that kept the graphic and pictures running in my minds eye, I went every step of the way with this one.I will be seeking out more of Robert Dugoni's books if they are good as this one.
I really want to thank Amazon Publishing via Net Galley for my copy of this great fantastic thriller, without access to it I may have missed a truly amazing read
I’m hoping that in the process of reviewing the novel, I will be able to decide for myself how much I liked it.I was first introduced to Robert Dugoni and to his main character, Tracy Crosswhite, in his short story, The Academy.
Her motivation, besides solving crimes, was to determine what happened to her younger sister Sarah twenty years earlier.In the book’s opening chapter, human remains were discovered near her hometown in a remote area of the Cascade Mountains in Washington State.
Still, Tracy was determined to find out what happened to her sister.
That was smart!Most of all, I loved the commitment and devotion Tracy had to her sister Sarah.
Happily, both books are fine as stand-alones.Tracy is a homicide detective who's been searching for her missing sister for the past 20 years.
She comes to the conclusion that the man who was imprisoned was framed.Excellent story line!
A homicide detective tries to free a man who was convicted of murder.
This certainly doesn't endear her to her boss, nor to the people who were involved with Sara's disappearance ...
Robert Dugoni will always be one of my favorite authors.
5 stars!My thanks to the author / NetGalley / Thomas & Mercer who supplied a digital copy in exchange for an honest, unbiased review.
A must-read for Dugoni fans, who pine for a great mystery sprinkled with just the right amount of courtroom drama.Dugoni tells the story in a way that keeps the reader hooked, offering a trail of crumbs to pique interest.
Dugoni taps into his past experience with courtroom writing and presents a highly controversial mystery sure to keep the reader pushing through, if only to determine who might have been behind the crime in the summer of 1993.
With fast-paced action and a great narrative, Dugoni's return shall be greeted with much applause by fans and newbies alike.Kudos, Mr. Dugoni as you return with much to show for your time away from published writing.
Legal thrillers are not really my thing, which is why I can only think of one I've read in the last decade.
However, the blurb tickled me and the reviews seemed that it might be worth the risk.One thing became obvious early on in this novel...Dugoni can write!He pulled me into this story and kept it interesting throughout.
I am a fan of police procedurals and legal thrillers so I would be more apt to like My Sister’s Grave.
Tracey Crosswhite grew up in the Cascade Mountain area of Washington State in the small town of Cedar Grove.
This cannot be said of a lot of legal thrillers or police procedurals as so many details need to be included to piece the story together later.
But, this is just my opinion about the pace of the book.Anyway, 20 years have passed and Tracey’s sister’s body is discovered.
I think that My Sister’s Grave will appeal to a vast audience of readers that read legal thrillers or police procedurals.
It really is a fascinating narrative and Tracey's sister Sarah comes alive for the reader in the course of this story through a series of frequent flashbacks to the past that are masterfully woven into the storyline by the author.I really did enjoy this 1st book in the Tracy Crosswhite series by Robert Dugoni and I felt compelled to stay up late, last night to finish reading.
Pacing is perfect.I also really recommend reading the two short stories about this heroine before starting with this series as not only are they excellent reads but they really define who this heroine is.
Although this is not the kind of book I would necessarily usually read, I'm glad I did.
It was refreshing to read a book written by a male author featuring a strong female protagonist, and Tracey Crosswhite is definitely that.
The author was clever to create a strong bond between the two sisters, perhaps this made the book more appealing to readers like myself who prefer some emotion in what they choose to read.The climatic scenes towards the end of the book are thrilling.
I will likely read the next book in the series to find out what is next for Tracey.
I really enjoyed this suspense, and am looking forward to the next book in the series.
I really liked the main character, Tracey, and I thought that the storyline was full of action and suspense.
It kept me intrigued and guessing.Tracey Crosswaite's sister disappeared and was presumed murdered years ago, but Tracey has never felt quite at peace with the conviction of the alleged killer.
As she searches for the killer, she places herself in danger, and uncovers some long held secrets.This was a great book!
I liked the writing style, the characters, setting, and the storyline.
It all added up to a book I thoroughly enjoyed.
