https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76950.The_House_on_the_Cliff
The Hardy Boys are legendary books for American boys.
Well, perhaps for a certain generation anyway.
Written by a collective behind the name Franklin Dixon (who also wrote the Nancy Drew mystery series), they are formulaic but abound with great cliff-hangers on nearly every chapter.
In this adventure, there is a haunted house, adventures at sea and the ineffable Fenton Hardy as well as Frank, Joe, Biff and my kid's favourite Chet getting into the action.
We have read 7 so far and this one is probably my #1 or #2 favourite.
A quick and fun read for bedtime with your son that neither of you will regret.
I read this book when I was 8 and it's what made me gay. Seriously, Biff's motorcycle is named "Queen" and when Joe "straddles" it and wraps his around Biff (or Chet) he "feels the throbbing engine between his legs." Then Frank and Joe get naked together after swimming in the ocean but that's okay because they're brothers even though they look nothing alike. Yeah right. Even "South Park" picked up on the subtext of the "Hardy Boys" in one episode. But you decide for yourself GoodReaders.
Frank and Joe Hardy are thrilled when their father, Fenton, gives them an assignment as part of his latest case.
He asks them to go up on the cliff and watch the bay for smugglers.
Yet, they soon hear a cry for help from inside, have part of the telescope stolen, and witness an attempted murder.
But even rereading it, I found it very fun.
It helps that there is plenty of action.
Kids today will get caught up in the story just as I did as a kid and rereading it as an adult.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
This time I picked up the right book.The Hardy Boys are riding down the road on their motorcycles on a nice sunny day and see this large house on a cliff and decide to go check it out because they had heard that it was now haunted.
See, it's a perfect book for a rainy day.After thoughts: I wanted to see who wrote this book since they used various writers in the Hardy Boys series.
Then I read that he also wrote number 14 and 15 before he quit writing this series.In 1959 all of the series of The Hardy Boys, Nancy Drew and The Dana Sisters were edited to remove racist comments.
Re-reading the Hardy Boys series with my daughter has been an adventure. I'm giving this one a 5-star rating because it was my favorite as a kid. Exciting story with secret passages, hidden doors and many twists and turns along the way.
I loved reading these back then, and now, comparing them to more modern YA books, it seems so simplistic and formulaic.The story jumps right into action pretty quickly.
The end has a nice ending, with the bad guy wishing he had a family who loved him, like Fenton Hardy, with two fine boys, and he reforms right then and there, vowing to create a boys' home for troubled boys.Compared to many of the contemporary YA books we have spent so much time on, it's amazing how far YA literature has progressed and grown over the decades.
Better than the first book. For a formulaic book for kids there was steady action and the mystery wasn't half bad. I'm glad my son likes The Hardy Boys.
At times Mr.Hardy will ask his sons to help out with some of the cases he's assassigned with.
He invites his sons in the case and they gladly accept as they are tasked to look out for any suspicious behavior out at see from an abandoned home on top of a cliff as a vantage point.
If you happen to become bored of the Hardy brothers the book does introduce more and new chracters, and if you stick around you'll see some of the fun through their point of view.
This book kept me sucked in the whole time.
Every chance I got that I could read it, I did.
In the end, I was surprised that Snattman told about his childhood and how he became who he is because of his uncle and mom.
They definitely affected his life and made him want more for other kids.
Even though he wanted other kids to be treated better, he still made a wrong decision and was a smuggler.
I think this book was hinting that you should always decide what you are doing before you do it because consequences can and will hurt you sometimes.
A great blast from the past! I read all of these growing up, and I only recently discovered that Franklin W. Dixon is a pen name for multiple authors. This particular story in the Hardy Boys chronicles was written in 1927, and it has held up extremely well for its age. While fashions and societal roles have changed, the mystery is just as comprehensible today as it was back then. Well written, especially considering the age for whom it is intended. Highly recommended if you have young readers looking for the thrill of a good mystery.
Definitely not as fun as the first in the series. In "The House on the Cliff" we have the least murdery smugglers that have ever existed. And clearly the worst Coast Guard in the world. "The smugglers seem to be operating near that house on the cliff. Should we investigate either the house or the cliff? Nah, let's let a couple of high schoolers figure it out."That being said it's all worth it for Pretzel Pete! The greatest name since Hobo Johnny.
I enjoyed this book very much. I like the. Cliffhanger at the end of each chapter. The theme of drug smuggling was the same problem as it is today only worst and not as neat. I would recommend this book to older readers of fifth grade on up to Adults who like their mystery clean and still fun. I enjoyed this book as much as did reading Nancy Drew. It's a good book to read to kids out loud.
Great audio book! High suspense as Mr. Hardy is captured by smugglers and the Hardy boys seek to rescue him. Lots of twists and turns keep the suspense throughout the reading of this book. A great read!
The House on the Cliff was about smuggler's and Mystery. I think it was very interesting.
The cliff is a mystery series. It’s a group of boys and two of them has a father who is a detective.Their dad goes missing and they go to find him. It’s a really good mystery book.
Honestly, a really nail biting one for the Hardy Boys. I truly loved it, and I will be reading more of the series.
It sounds so fake, like they were reading the Wikipedia pages about the characters before talking to them and had notes about everything that had ever happened in Bayport.
(view spoiler)[The main villain has a sudden "change of heart" that is so cheesy and fake, and if it was modern day the cops would have been like "Yeah right, shut your mouth." But of course, the Hardy Boys and all the random other characters are sure that he turned out to be a great guy afterall.
(hide spoiler)]The target demographic for this series is not 16 year old boys, but I am fond of the notion that any person of whatever age or gender should be able to enjoy a book.
The Hardy Boys The House on the Cliff is a thrilling mystery about two brothers who are determined to find their detective father, Fenton Hardy.
The boys father is working on a smuggling case but the two boys are eager to help.
When the boys are assigned a look out task their tools are mysteriously stolen and strange screams for help are heard with nobody in sight.
The boys later discover that their father has disappeared.
The boys enter thepassageway hoping to find their father, well they do and the only struggle now is escaping.
Hardy Boys #2 The House on the Cliff is a great adventure and mystery filled with suspense and danger.
Frank and Joe's search for their dad, Fenton, the risks, the bravery, and the loyalty are all great elements that make this book a real Hardy Boys story and worthy of 5 stars.
You can really feel the suspense and concern as you read each page.
As they searched the cliff, it was like I was there with them, every step, listening, trying to be careful to not be detected.
And I really like that in a book.
I love the Hardy Boys Mysteries. They're like reading Scooby-Doo stories for an advanced audience. Total Saturday morning nostalgia. Extremely cool revisiting the series as an adult. They are more fun now than when I first discovered the series in our town library, so many years back. Can't wait to get to the ones I never read. Great fun!
I think that this is a great book! I love the adventure and mystery. I enjoyed reading this book because once I picked it up I couldn't put it down because it was so intriguing. I would recommend this book if you like mystery and adventure.
This story was just OK for me, not as exciting an adventure as the previous book I read. The Hardy Boys actually ended up getting their father, the detective, out of danger! Will continue on with this old treasures.
When "I don't really want to call them this but they are kinda like ghost busters" Frank and Joe Hardy investigate there father Fenton's crime when he goes disapearing .A group of smugelers kidnap him.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
Like an old-school Saturday morning serial, this series delivers plenty of adventure, mystery, and fun. As a kid at heart, I definitely enjoyed it.
i don't really like smugglering and it was kind of freaky blood on the hat whew!!
This book is really fun and filled with mystery and exciting parts!!!!! People who like mystery should read this series!!!
I read this when i was a kid because my father had it inside the shelves in the garage with his playboys. It was pretty cool i guess!
I can't believe how much fun it is to read these aloud to my son. Best boy-adventure vocabulary building ever. : )
I read a couple of these books and then I stopped when i was 2...ha ha ha
