https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/903778.The_Waning_of_the_Middle_Ages
But The Waning of the Middle Ages had been on my mind to read for some time(view spoiler)[ which is what I use in place of a reading wish list, the fallibility of human memory helps by winnowing down the near infinite possibilities of reading to something more humanly achievable (hide spoiler)] so I surrendered to the serendipity.The book is an attempt to create a portrait of the age, specifically of the culture of the higher levels of society in Northern France and the Low Countries (there is a lot of focus on the court of the Dukes of Burgundy).
And it occasionally happens that a period in which one had, hitherto, been mainly looking for the coming to birth of new things, suddenly reveals itself as an epoch of fading and decay.The present work deals with the history of the fourteenth and fifteenth centuries regarded as a period of termination … Such a view presented itself to the author whilst endeavoring to arrive at a genuine understanding of the art of the brothers Van Eyck and their contemporaries, that is to say, to grasp its meaning by seeing it in connection with the entire life of their times.
This is one of the first books that I ever read concerning medieval history, and it had quite a big impact on me, so Autumn of the Middle Ages is always going to have a special place in my heart.
It's a rather attractive thesis, and it gives the book a quiet sadness that almost reads like an elegy, but it's problematic in the sense that Huizinga never adequately explains why the system failed when it did, and he never addresses the possibility that the culture of the era wasn't dying, but slowly transforming into something new.
Mid way through my cursory reading of European history I felt myself overwhelmed with names, dates and wars.
This book is a bit of a break from that.
It's an important book in that Huizinga fleshes out the mentality late medieval Burgundy on the brink of the Renaissance as shown through its chronicles, religious expression, art, poetry and emerging literature.
One has to slow down to read and appreciate Huizina; at least I had to.
By focusing on a chronologically and geographically narrow period in history Huizinga is able to deeply explore how societies move forward from epoch to epoch.
Huizinga's work is a classic look at the literary and artistic culture of fifteenth century Burgundy and France.
Huizinga believed that the boundary between what we call the Renaissance and the Middle Ages was porous, something that scholars today seem to accept for the most part.
However, his work was pioneering at the time, and it still concludes many gems of insight for those willing to work through this classic book.
But all in all, the book is well worth one's time for those interested in this period of European history, and a must read for serious students of that era.
I am not nearly enough of a historian to rate this book as overall correct or incorrect.
My understanding of the study of history is to take many interpretations of learned historians into account and weigh them with the evidence.
Of course it is -- it is nearly a hundred years old.
He gives a very interesting perspective on this era and region of history and he is nothing of not thought-provoking.
I am merely a general reader of history, but I found this very dense book to be still thoroughly enjoyable.
If this period of history interests you, Huizinga will give you much to consider.
Future readers should read the comment section, which has more value than my current hrrruumphs!)This book is too long and there is much too much of the author's psycho-social speculation in it - some of it is fairly good, a little of it is quite useless, and very, very little of it is absolutely essential or compelling.
I will spend another day or two with this book - but the rating suffers as a result.That said, this was a revolutionary piece of work, and is justly famous and deserves a reading.
Levei um ano e meio para terminar esse livro, menos por dificuldades intelectuais do que pelo fato da edição de luxo da (falecida, porém sempre em nossos corações) Cosac Naif é de difícil manuseio.Johan Huizinga não foi só um grande historiador, mas um escritor talentoso.
Os ensaios escorrem pela página com facilidade, e o panorama que ele pinta da mentalidade vigente nas regiões correspondentes França e Países Baixos no século XV praticamente pula da página.
Claro que a edição da (RIP) Cosac complementa o texto com reproduções a cores de pinturas, gravuras, iluminuras - para além de paratextos de historiadores mais contemporâneos - a entrevista do Le Goff, por exemplo, é uma maravilha.
Spending time browsing through "Great Books" lists tends to turn up classics like this one, and since my knowledge of the Middle Ages was scant at best, I thought I'd give this older classic (published in 1924) a try.
I was pleasantly surprised at Huizinga's writing style, which for the most part was quite interesting and engaging.
A familiarity with the Middle Ages may have helped me to grasp the plentiful content of this book more firmly, but I felt it was still a very good introduction to the period.
I would definitely recommend this book to anyone interested in the historical period - but in hardback or paperback.
Decadent, nostalgic and beautiful. This book changed my view on the Middle Ages.
I found myself constantly having to re read sentences or paragraphs but it's still a great read.
The thesis was different from any history book I ever read (and I was a medieval history major for a year and a half).
There were a lot of quotes in the original form (mainly French but also Italian, Latin, and some other languages) and sometimes it got complicated constantly reading the footnotes but they were useful.
Would be a great book for people with at least slight prior knowledge of the medieval/renaissance period and/or art history knowledge.
DNF
There were certainly some interesting topics on chivalry and the political process, for instance, as well as Leaders being accustomed to fighting rather than throwing the peasantry into battle. While I used to be interested in medieval period, this book just did not hold my interest. I suppose I feel more relevant topics to be more useful at this point in my life.
I think Cantor does Huzinga a disservice, for I found "Autumn" to be eye opening both for its adept analysis and its innovative method.
It's hard not to think of Foucault as one meanders through three hundred pages of tossed off analysis if how people thought about allegories five hundred years ago in northern france.
As Cantor says, Huzingia wrote this book with sources available in any "second tier library".
It is the speculative nature of Huzingia's scholarship that is both the greatest strength and weakness of "Autumn".
This is not really a "read on the go" type of book.
The subtitle presents the correct focus: no overview of political or military facts (also no economic), but an excursion into the various aspects of the late-medieval mental attitudes.
For instance: the accent on the survival of the medieval in the new (renaissance) forms, the puncturing the ideals of chivalry and courtliness (as largely hollow models), but it does indicate the value these ideas had for the real development of the culture.All in all impressive, but unfortunately very outdated.
The abbreviated version, purportedly translated from the German edition and truncated because Huizinga believed that Americans wouldn't understand the complete version, Be that as it may, I have read both this and the later complete translation (from the Dutch) and the important argument is here.
Huizinga believed that in the late 14th and early 15th century the Mediaval faith had become ritualistic and overly ripe.
Relying heavily on art and especially poetry this is social history.
This is an indispensable book for anyone who loves history, poetry, or art.
The four stars is solely because of the truncation.
A classic look at the final flowering of medieval culture--- a world alien in so many ways, yet whose obsessions seem all-too-familiar. The focus here is on northern France and the Low Countries, but Huizinga's vision is wide-ranging and informed. Even after so long, this is a key book for examining Western Europe between the Black Death and the Reformation. Beautifully written, and presented here in a new rendering that's far closer to the original text than the standard English version of "The Waning of the Middle Ages".
Het is een leuk boek, maar de schrijfstijl is archaïsch.
Het gaat over het algemeen over de overgang van de Middeleeuwen naar de Renaissance, vooral in de Bourgondische landen en Nederland.
Opvallend is dat het vooral geconcentreerd is op het Bourgondisch hof en dan gebruikt Huizinga met name kroniekschrijvers uit die regio.
De anekdotes waren zo nu en dan zeer smakelijk; van het gebruik in de Middeleeuwen om doden nog even te make-uppen wanneer ze begraven werden tot omgangsvormen die tot een error leidden, het staat er bondig maar leuk in beschreven.
Kortom, leuk boek, erudiet geschreven maar wel lastig om doorheen te komen.
Mooi edoch moeilijk Nederlands.
Um ano depois, o fim!!! Leitura maravilhosa! :)))
Really 3.5
For instance, when reflecting on the pessimism of its poets Huizinga states "Happy are the bachelors, for a man who has an evil wife has a bad time of it, and he who has a good one always fears to lose her.
This is one of the first books that I ever read concerning medieval history, and it had quite a big impact on me, so Autumn of the Middle Ages is always going to have a special place in my heart.
It's a rather attractive thesis, and it gives the book a quiet sadness that almost reads like an elegy, but it's problematic in the sense that Huizinga never adequately explains why the system failed when it did, and he never addresses the possibility that the culture of the era wasn't dying, but slowly transforming into something new.
I will not claim that the book is bad or wrong but the style of writing was just not my cup to tea and every chapter I got lost in the words.
The problem is that this is a book nearly a hundred years old in a style nearly incomprehensible for a contemporary reader.
I am a history major and I still could not immediately place every historical figure or reference Huizinga used and even if I could it is a style I truly detest.
This book will take the same place as did Dante's work, I acknowledge the importance of it and the impact but I can't appreciate the original.
Aesthetically, it is a masterpiece, and anyone who enjoys reading history as literature regardless of its methodological rigor should not fail to read Huizinga's work.
This leads to history that carries a strong bias and is of dubious usefulness.
Huizinga is always exciting in his passion, depth, and sensitivity.I think that one may entirely discard his central thesis - that the late medieval period saw a complete articulation and exhaustion of forms of thought that would gradually be replaced in the Renaissance - and still find this book to be a rewarding and provocative study.
Estamos acostumbrados a pensar de una forma rígida en cuanto a las divisiones en épocas de la Historia.Este libro nos acerca al germen de la Edad Moderna, que se encuentra en los últimos años de la Edad Media. El cambio en la espiritualidad, las vivencias, el amor por lo grecolatino,...no nació de la noche a la mañana cuando apareció la Edad Moderna. Todos estos cambios se fueron gestando poco a poco en etapas anteriores. Huizinga nos acerca a esta realidad, con un estudio muy profundo.Esencial para conocer y entender el Humanismo y el Renacimiento.
This was a college book. I'd experience life as a fairy-story of young love like Maid Marian and Robin with dreams of living in the woods. This book exposed the "vehement pathos "of medieval life. Though there were princes and unicorns I learned there was a lot of cruelty along with the tenderness of life. I later learned of similar horrors of the renaissance but was able to live in my own movie when I I found other anachronists and joined the SCA.
Incredible edible Middle Ages, so close to our mentality in the extremes of violent and amorous expressions, prejudice, supersticions and swaying from one extreme to the nexr, and so far away from us historically. The book wih its lively and engaging narration style is an easy introduction to the history of the Middle Ages in the Latin Europe and an indispensable help for general understanding of the lack of malleability of the human nature.
Severely dated, conceptually stunted, and deeply methodologically flawed. Burckhardtian in its attempt to capture the "mood" of the late middle ages, but based on a number of false premises (primarily, that the Renaissance was in any way secular, and that it lacked continuity with the culture of the middle ages, which apparently decayed and actually went away entirely) that add up to a distorted and unhistorical picture of the era.
La malinconica ferocia di un mondo al tramonto. Ideali, canzoni d'amore, tornei dove sovrani veri giocano con i simboli di un passato immaginato.Un grande libro, un intramontabile classico della storiografia del primo novecento. Si legge come un romanzo perchè in ogni parola risuona l'amore dell'autore per il passato fiammeggiante di un paese scomparso dai libri di storia
