https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9417.Shopaholic_and_Sister
I don't know why but for some reason I liked this book better the second time around.
I read this book 5 or 6 years ago and I didn't love it.
Shopaholic & Sister has always been my least favorite.
I'm glad I did because I found this book to be so charming and now I can't remember why didn't like it the first time.
Shopaholic & Sister is book 4 of the Shopaholic series starring Becky Bloomwood.
The Shopaholic series is a fun, fast paced read.
2018 Popsugar Reading Challenge: A bestseller from the year you graduated High School.
Book 23/100 for 20154.5/5Like I've said before, I absolutely love Sophie Kinsella's writing style. She creates such strong characters with very different personalities and has them get into the weirdest and funniest situations. I honestly thought I would get bored with this series as I kept reading on, but the opposite is actually true! I can't wait to read the fifth book, Shopaholic & Baby and laugh even more!
This time around Becky, the spoiled, materialistic bumble-head is unemployed and married to her sure to be long-suffering lover Luke.
They spend the early part of the novel honeymooning around the globe for a year while Becky secretly spends all sorts of dough on silly trinkets and other assorted things (such as two dining room tables!) that Luke doesn't want or need.
When Becky returns home from her travels she discovers she has a half sister and is overjoyed with visions of shopping, sleepovers, popcorn and spending endless hours watching Pretty Woman and Sleepless in Seattle with her new sis.
I feel like I SHOULD hate these books by now...they all follow the same pattern of "Becky shops, Becky gets in trouble from shopping, Becky reforms and swears she'll do better." ALL the same. And yet, these books are all so funny and entertaining that I can't put them down. They're excellent for when I want to read something light, because they're well-written and they have such likable characters. I will have a hard time not reading the next one right away. In fact, I might not succeed in that. :)
Not only that, but since Becky never shows any improvement in the subsequent novels, it makes their endings worthless.
It kind of makes you feel like everything she goes through is for nothing.Becky also reaches extreme levels of stupidity--oops, I meant "ditziness"--in this novel.
Sophie Kinsella has stated that she originally planned her "Shopaholic" series to end after the third one, in which Becky gets married to Luke.
Personally, I think Kinsella should have ended this series after "Shopaholic Takes Manhattan."
Shopaholic and Sister is the fourth installment in Sophie Kinsella's Shopaholic series and is my favorite to date. Becky Bloomwood just tries so, so hard and it all just bites her in the end. This installment focuses on more than just her spending addiction so I think it was the perfect reprieve in that regard. I enjoyed it so much!
Can’t help but love and root for Becky.
Another great addition to the Shopaholic series - Sophie Kinsella once again brings Becky, a quirky but lovable character back into the fray with a wonderful mix of weary world traveling, sisterhood and of course, more shopping!!We pick Becky up at the end of a 10-month honeymoon with her new hubbie Luke – they’ve been all over the world and Becky’s got a lot of shopping to show for it – but it’s easy – she just buys and has it all shipped home – she’ll worry about where to put it all later!
Very enjoyable. Becky is truly one of the most annoying characters I have read about, but it's still so funny; the situations she get's herself into, the conversations she has and the way she justifies certain actions. That woman lives in a completely different world. That makes this series definitely entertaining!
What the fuck? WHEN IS BECKY GOING TO LEARN HOW TO BE A HALF WAY REASONABLE HUMAN BEING???Oh my god, I just get increasingly ANGRY at her inability to be ration for more than two seconds. I don't understand how this woman is supposedly an adult. How long does it take to figure out that LYING and HIDING STUFF never is a good idea? Especially when she does it?This girl just doesn't learn. Maybe I just hate when people unnecessarily lie to their partners and best friends.And I am totally pissed at Danny for being a flake.
Becky just makes me laugh.
After her 10-month honeymoon with Luke, she comes home with way more gifts than she thought she bought to find that Suze has a new best friend and that she has a long lost sister named Jess.
Every time you think Becky has gotten her act together, she hides something else from everyone and it all blows up.
And it's hilarious how different Jess and Becky are, to the point where they're doubting their shared DNA.
Anyway, Becky ends up learning a lot from Jess.
(Though I'm sure the frugal Becky will definitely not stick.)
It's really hard to rate this book because on one hand it was completely addictive but on the other, I was majorly disappointed with the way Becky was acting.
Wanting to surprise her parents and her best friend Suze, Becky returns home without warning but their reactions are not what she is expecting.
Suze is juggling with her kids and appears to have made a new best friend and her parents act shady as they prepare to break some news to Becky (no surprise, since it's in the book title: Becky has a sister)!
She always manages to revert back to her annoying ways at the start of a new book.
The typical Becky Bloomwood one chapter she broke my heart and made me laughing so much in the next one. Jess the new addition to the story I like her. Luke I love him but sometimes He annoy me because he seems so clueless . I really loved this book and reading it made my day.
Saya membaca buku #4 seri Shopaholic ini, melompati #2 dan #3 (karena tidak punya terjemahannya hihihi).Diawali dgn Becky dan Luke di penghujung bulan madu mereka di Sri Lanka, Becky memutuskan utk ikut Luke pd kunjungan bisnis di Milan, Italy.
Siapa nyana Becky malah ketemu konglomerat baik hati yg menolongnya mendapatkan tas Angel yg sangat dia idam-idamkan, yg selalu dia tunjuk2 dr majalah ke depan hidung Luke.Becky sengaja mau memberi kejutan kepulangan mendadak di London.
Becky masih menyembunyikan pertemuannya dgn Nathan Temple (konglomerat yg menolongnya mendapatkan tas Angel tsb) krn asumsi Luke bhw org ini bajingan.
I was nervous when I started reading this one due to many of the negative reviews, but I have to say, I was happily surprised!
I just became a fan of the Shopaholic series and I just love Becky & Luke!
I have to agree with a previous reviewer who compared Becky to Lucy Ricardo - that's exactly who she reminds me of.
She seemed to own up to her mistakes much quicker (there were just SEVERAL to own up to in this book).
I really think this one was my all time fave of the series.
Wow the second time around of reading this book and my rating has definitely improved (and by 2 freaking stars!).
Other than it, Rebecca is still highly entertaining and I just love how she is so freaking obsessed with shopping.
I liked the new twist of her having a half-sister and how Jess was the complete opposite of Rebecca.
Their friendship was really funny to read about and I'm glad that they sort of accepted each other towards the end of the book.
I still love Rebecca's friendship with Suze and I'm happy that it continues to be strong.
Irresistible, one-woman shopping phenomenon Becky Bloomwood is back in this hilarious, heartwarming, New York Times bestselling tale of married life, best friends, and long-lost sisters (and the perils of simply having to own an Angel handbag!). Honestly, this was my least favorite of the series butttttt I still enjoyed it. How could you not? We are reading about Becky's amazing life. Add a long-lost sister who is not into clothes, shoes, and handbags, oh my! Well, you are going to get a cute and fun read.
This was an amazing read.
This is my ninth Sophie Kinsella story, and fourth book of the Shopaholic series.
I loved every minute of it.
The humor in her stories makes the book more enjoyable.
I loved Becky.
She is a silly, yet lovable main female character.
Luke is an amazing male character.
He may be an entrepreneur, but I love how he is able to love Becky even though she has her flaws and quirks.
I really loved this book.
We get to see more into the change of Becky's character.
Also, I really liked the ending and the fact that it hints to the next book.
But, this is the first book in the series that I have read in a loooong time that left me feeling like I did when I read the first book so many years past.Becky seems less shallow throughout this book, her charecter seems to grow more than in the last book especially.
I'm interested in finding out more (i.e. reading Shopaholic and Baby), but I'm not sure if I'll continue the series or not at the moment.
The book was a nice light read which I needed at the moment.
Becky Bloomwood found out that she has a long lost sister!
Becky loved the sophisticated life of drinking 7 dollar coffees, shopping on expensive designer brand streets, and buying things she really doesn't need.
As a matter of fact, she didn't buy things that she didn't need, she always made her own coffee, and made dumbbells out of water bottles and sand.
Becky felt so down at this moment of her life.
Her "long lost" sister hated her, found her annoying.
I've definitely felt that a couple times in my life, where I feel so isolated and alone that I just don't know what to do.
At A GlanceGenre: Chick lit.Love Triangle/Insta Love?: Nope.Cliff Hanger: kinda!Rating: 4 Stars.Score SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  9Characters: 9World Building: 8Flow:  9Series Congruity: 9Writing: 8Ending: 8Total: 8In DeptBest Part: Good character development.
I am a bit irked at the ending, not gonna spoil, but lets say i don't see how they can just assume and go with it.
Anyhow, bad Becky keeping secret credit cards in compacts, genius idea thou.
Jess, Becky's Sister, annoyed the crap out of me greatly, untill the last 10% or so, then i fell in love with her :) I am excited to see how this goes next.
A fun read. Becky gets herself in all kind of mess again , but you cannot help but be swept along with her.
With her new job not due to start for several months, Luke orders Becky to sort things out around the house with her spare time.Becky's parents arrive with big news - they didn't want to tell Becky initially, but she has a half-sister from a previous relationship of her father's.
Becky overhears Luke saying that she is hard to live with, and thinks that her marriage is over.After a falling-out with Jess, Becky decides to go to her home in northern England to learn to be thrifty.
The book ends with Becky helping Jess organize a protest against a new shopping mall (which turns out to be one of Luke's new clients) and Becky discovering that she is pregnant.
By the third book, all readers following these series know that Becky Bloomwood is an only child, so the title of the fourth book does stir up some curiosity.Well, to sum up my reaction to this book…..I must declare that KINSELLA IS BACK!
The author is just as witty and humorous as the first two Shopaholic novels, and I truly enjoyed reading her fourth book!One of my favorite scenes is reading Becky’s obsession with acquiring the limited edition ‘Angel Bag’.
Note that Ms. Kinsella barely made mention of Danny, who is Becky’s NYC best friend.
There is also more of Suze in this book, who is Becky’s longtime best friend.
I am so annoyed with her I forgot that she’s the heroine and Jess is just a supporting character or something.
I side with her because Jess is fucking right.
Damn Becky in this book.
But I can’t believe that I can finish it in 7 hours straight.
God. I slept at 5 AM because I read a few chapters of Shopaholic & Baby.
And Becky’s still annoying on the first chapters.Back to the review, I actually thought Jess was adopted or something.
Can’t she be just happy for Becky?
Fuck Becky.
God. I can’t read clearly the fucking whole time.
In this 4th novel in the Shopaholic series, Becky meets her half sister that she didn't know she had, and to her disappointment, she's her polar opposite.
The long lost sister angle did add some emotional waves to the story, and we still had a lot of the good old gullible Becky and her inability to say No. I especially enjoy how she makes up these whole scenarios in her head of what she thinks she can make happen.
Still, I like Luke and I think they make a great couple.
Suze appears a lot more in this novel than the last, which is great!
I think I said it in the book reviews for each of the other 3, and I'll say it again: THIS GIRL MAKES ME CRAZY!Sure, there are some entertaining things in these books, and the whole sister thing is like a Lucille Ball show, but her lying and shopping make my stomach hurt.
As I read each of these books, I actually felt concern for the predicaments she was getting into!Several people have said they didn't like/get the whole shopping thing.
Even things that don't need to be lied about!Yes, these books are good for the plane (which is where I think I read this one), and they're nice and lite, but .
Well, A half-sister, that is!Just when I thought Becky would mope around and get mad at her father, she decided she would befriend her because she thought Jess would love shopping too!
Little did she know that she would never be able to drag her to Harrods shopping maven nor at Barney's!I think this book’s much better than the last one I read when Becky got married.
Just think about this - Becky the shopaholic, who couldn't last the day without buying new items for her closet, had finally met her frugal sister Jess, who wouldn't want to buy anything at all, unless she really, really, really needed it.
After hating Shopaholic Ties the Knot so much, this was a shock, but it's by far my favorite Shopaholic book, even more so than the first.
I'm glad I got this one out of the library at the same time at "Knot" or I would have probably stopped after that clunker.
Jess provides much-needed balance to Becky, and I like that she's not just a voice of reason, but comically obsessive in the opposite direction.
By centering it on a long-lost-sister relationship, Kinsella manages to provide the satisfaction of a romance without busting up Becky's marriage.
Sophie Kinsella is one of my favorite authors, and the Shopaholic series my favorite books.
Although I am definitely not a shopaholic, I could completely relate to the character and I LOVE Luke and their relationship.
But if you have a sense of humor and enjoy reading about funny characters and humorous yet realistic events, then you will love this book as much as I do!This was actually my favorite book in the series because there were some real issues in their relationship (I got so upset for Becky!) and some actual danger involved that I found super exciting!
