https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31299.Hickory_Dickory_Dock
Why the hell doesn't Goodreads have a galaxy (instead of just 5 stars) rating system for books that just make you go
Set in a hostel with a mixed group, this intriguing story wasn't like other mysteries by her that I've read.
He's called in because of a bizarre list of items stolen, but murder comes across eventually.Set in a hostel with a mixed group, characters become more individualized that some of her other works.
As usual there are jabs at various groups of people (the paranoia of the Americans tickled me, actually pretty true), and there is the stigma of alcoholism hidden in there with one particular character.
In this 32nd book in the Hercule Poirot series, the detective investigates mysterious occurrences at a rooming house.
Like all Agatha Christie books, it can be read as a standalone.
Hercule Poirot is asked to investigate a rash of theft and vandalism at a boarding house for students and young workers.
The items involved seem random - a diamond ring, a scarf, a backpack, light bulbs, eye wash, etc.- but Poirot suspects a sinister motive may underlie the incidents.
To me this seemed like one of Agatha Christie's less developed (and more obvious) plots with not quite believable motivation for many of the characters.
3.5 stars # 10 in my Agatha Christie Challenge During the first 50 pages, I was thinking that Agatha Christie had let Hercule Poiriot go a bit soft in her latter books, but then bodies started dropping in a co-ed boarding house and all the signs pointed to murder and it got interesting.
I never mention enough how much I laugh at Poiriot's loveable arrogance or raise an eyebrow at some of the political and social issues that creep up in these books.
As this book was written in the 1950's, the big fear was Communism and several of the characters are implied to be card carrying members.
A bunch of boarders, mostly students and young folk, get into a bit of mischief which turns out to be more than just a bit of mischief.
It's also one of the later Poirot books.
I've only read a few of her many books.
This is yet another one that has me wanting to read more of her work.In this tale of love, death and well, I'll just say "more," our usual hero Poirot, that diminutive man from Belgium, plays but a small role.
Maybe this isn't Christie's most memorable work, but it would be a credit to any mystery writer's oeuvre.
اولين كتابي بود از آگاتا كريستي ميخوندم واسه همين چيزي ندارم واسه مقايسه ولي در كل خوب بود
The story is set in 1955 in London and Miss Lemon is worried about her sister and the strange goings on at the hostel where her sister works: Things have gone missing.In order to return to a life of normalcy and perfection, Poirot offers to help Miss Lemon's sister solve the mystery of the disappearing items.Hickory Dickory Dock is a great story to note the differences in Christie's writing between the pre- and post-war periods.
It seemed to him appropriate that Miss Lemon's sister should have spent most of her life in Singapore.
“I spit upon the murder”—Mrs. Nicoletti“They are stupid about love, these girls—as if love mattered” Mrs. NicolettiHickory Dickory Dock is one of Christie’s novels with a nursery rhyme title, though there is little to no connection.
There is a Mrs. Hubbard (like the one with a cupboard), but again, this is just Christie being cute.
I certainly did read this half my life ago and probably enjoyed it more then than I did this time, in the context of having read the previous 29 Poirot novels.
There’s a pompous British grad student in psychology, Colin, that Christie makes fun of, which is also her way of making fun of pop psychology.
Ρατσιστικό, βλακώδες, dated and far fetched.Από τις μεγάλες πατάτες της Κρίστι.
SPOILER ALERT!!!!!What made this book stand out for me though was the final revelation of the villain.
I find that so many detective stories try to shock the reader that it's got to the point where I instantly suspect the people the author obviously doesn't want me to suspect.
The little boy, the innocent damsel, the poor disfigured man, the narrator himself, sometimes even the detective himself.
So it came as quite a refreshing surprise to me when Nigel Chapman, the person everyone suspected most, actually turned out to be the villain!
Buddy Read with Murugesh.  'I congratulate you,' he said warmly to the latter,She looked startled. 'But why, M. Poirot?''I congratulate you on having such a unique and beautiful problem.'  So the book is set in a boarding house where students of different ethnicity reside and then things start to go missing. Looks like a simple case of theft among struggling students but will it turn out to be something more? Why would Poirot be interested in such a base case? But things are never as simple as w
So the book is set in a boarding house where students of different ethnicity reside and then things start to go missing.
It was just such a contrast to what I want in my cozy mystery!There were many characters in the book that lived in the boarding house who were put in just to have a wide range of ethnicity but just had a cursory mention and then appeared no more.
There was rhyme used in And Then There Were None which had a direct co-relation to what was happening in the story but so is not the case in this book.Overall still a pretty decent read but not high on my Poirot mysteries.
The intrigue was really good - I never guessed who had done it till the end. Full marks for that!I just found the characters very stereotyped. It might have been the fact that the author was creating 'foreign' characters. They just sounded very fake to me.
جميلة كالعادة وفكرة مختلفة وعقول مختلفة عما سبق لكن النهاية كانت اسرع وابسط من توقعاتي ومن ما احب ومن ما اعتدت عليه سواء في رواياتها ولكن لا ااستطيع ان انكر بأنها شدتني وبشدة و بأنني سأستمر بقراءة المزيد و المزيد من تلك الروايات
Another great mystery by the Queen of Crime! :) Loved listening to this on audiobook, even though the narrator kind of sounded like he had a cold...
أجاثا كريستي دائما ما تبهرني برواياتها التي تتميز بدقة حبكتها وترابط أحداثها ومنطق تسلسلها بالإضافة إلي الكم الهائل من الألغاز والحبكات الغامضة التي تجعل العقل يذهب إلي كل التخمينات والظنون أريد قراءة المزيد والمزيد من قصصها الممتعة
Too many coincidences make this Christie plot weak. Poirot's deductions are more whimsical and he just gets lucky with some of his wild deductions. Too many red herrings that are unusual distraction. For Christie fans this is quite unlike any of her other novels. A poor, average read
أجاثا كريستي من الكتاب اللي مش عاوز أقرأ كل رواياتها على طول، بقرأ لها رواية كل كام شهر، عشان البقية
مرة أخرى تبهرني اجاثا كريستي بحبكتها البارعة.اركض من اجل ان اصل للنهايةاستمتعت بها كثيرا
I'm a prettying open-minded person when it comes to books being the product of their age, and don't let such things distract me from the meat of the story.
That said, Hickory Dickory Dock takes some kind of special cake in prejudices against foreigners and cartoony stereotypes.
Even for Agatha this is a new kind of record.
Oh, Agatha...
Anyway, I am giving this story only three stars, because even the plot wasn't all that hot - organized crime in detective fiction just doesn't appeal to me as much as the crime of passion.
The ending is pretty twisty though, and sort of redeems the dragged out middle.
من دوست ندارم اشخاصی ک ب نظر تقصیرکار میان واقعا آخرش تقصیرکار باشن. همیشه توی ذهن من آدم های ساکت و بی سروصدا باید تقصیرکار بشن ولی خب همیشه این روند رعایت نمیشه. توی این کتاب از همون اول تقریبا میشد ب راحتی حدس زد کار کیه چون اون شخص هم زرنگ بود هم شرو شور دار . حیف شد :))
Always a pleasure, Miss Christie. And now that I am living in a dorm in the UK, this story was even more fun!
You ask why does Egypt resent the Suez Canal?" AND she lets Poirot make a nice point about how his being foreign to English people doesn't make all other non-English people familiar to him.Nonetheless: The inoffensive African guy talks all funny and addresses all the white people as "Mr." and "Miss," even his peers, all of whom call each other by their first names?
You're as good writing characters you admire as characters you despise, but ones you don't think are even worth your time to give entire souls?
مسارات عديدة، وعقد متشابكة، في سياق شيق، وصولاً إلى حل مفاجىء كالعادة!
In this story alone we deal with several young single women and even Ms. Lemon's widowed sister who though she doesn't need the income, likes to work in order to still feel useful.
Though I did like the initial parts of the book with Poirot being flabbergasted that Miss Lemon has made mistakes in his letters.
I don't really care for the books when he comes in at the halfway point, or when we stay with another character the whole way through with their musings about Poirot and the case.
The principal problems are the plethora of at times clumsily handled characters, and a crucial unexplained plot flaw.The characters first: there are a lot of them, but then the setting is a student rooming house, so this is understandable.
What isn't is the way some of the characters are built up to be plausible guilty parties and then apparently forgotten without being exonerated or completing their character arcs: they just disappear from focus.
We don't get one.Don't get me wrong: "Hickory Dickory Dock" is still very enjoyable; it just isn't superb.
It still doesn't rise to the level of her best, but it was engaging enough that I read it in a two hour sitting before bed.It is a bit of a blood bath, with two three separate murders happening during the book's time span.
For a Christie novel, as well, the characterizations had a surprising depth.
She moved beyond her traditional "bright young thing" characterizations and gave the young people conflicting, deeper, and occasionally more sinister, motivations.
The authors - Christie, Sayers, Allingham - wrap their stories in English coziness and gentility, so the baseness and brutality of the murderers is often understated.
Meh. This book was mostly just annoying.
If I'm going to have to listen to a lot of psychological analysis, I prefer it to be delivered by Jeeves.
And HOW did the title relate?
Didn't like that Poirot took a back seat, either.
I haven't read all that many Christies, but I wonder if I should stick to earlier ones.
However, this audiobook gets 5 stars as a toddler charmer!
After I finished the book, I flipped the audio to the back seat and got a couple of hours of happiness on a long drive.
Good job with your voice, Hugh!!
Hickory Dickory Dock (Hercule Poirot, #30), Agatha Christie عنوان: جنایتهای خیابان هیکوری؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: محمد قصاع؛ تهران، البرز، 1374؛ در 209 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای جنایی از نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 20 معنوان: قتل در خوابگاه دانشجویی؛ نویسنده: آگاتا کریستی؛ مترجم: مجتبی عبدالله نژاد؛ تهران، هرمس، 1390؛ در 262 ص؛ شابک: 9789643637804؛ چاپ دوم در سال 1392 در 246 ص؛
The 30th book in the Hercule Poirot series by the Queen of Crime writers Agatha Christie.Her books are timeless and are always great reads with lots of twists and turns and they keep you guessing until the very end. Thankfully she wrote so many books to entertain us.

