https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126862.The_Tie_That_Binds
The first, is that this was Kent Haruf’s debut novel.
This, his first novel, did exactly that many times over.On the second point, I can’t help feeling sad that not only was Kent Haruf’s book writing cut short at the end of his sixth novel, but that his greatness wasn’t recognized until after he was gone.
It also makes me wonder how his books completely passed me by until last year.
On the other hand, better late than never and I hope that his writing continues to attract the readers and acclaim that have surged over the past several years.This book covers more than 80 years, and yet it is written so well that each character introduced takes on dimension.
This novel setting is Holt, Colorado, an imaginary farm town very near where my own family homesteaded.At times the story is heart wrenching and evocative.
Elements of the story resonate with me personally…undoubtedly because I’m the granddaughter of eastern Colorado dry land farmers… and my own parents (contemporaries of Edith and Lyman) lived their whole lives in that small farming community where I grew up.
I found myself relating to and reminiscing with this narrator’s past recollections as they conjured up stories of my own family history.Edith Goodnough’s personal life is a gut-wrenching tale at times as she struggles to cope with the hardscrabble farm life (of the early 20th century) and the demands of a disabled, venomous and belligerent father.
4.5 StarsIf you like well-developed characters and addictive stories, you'll love Kent Haruf as well as his first novel, THE TIE THAT BINDS.Neighbor and family friend Sanders Roscoe narrates the life story of 80 year old Edith Goodnough and how she came to be lying in a hospital bed accused of murder.Her long, unimaginable hard life is filled with tragedy and constant sacrifice as she lives with her wild exasperating father and thoughtless brother.
(sad I only have two more Haruf novels left to read)
Here we get a vision of the tragic life of Edith as the daughter of a selfish, stubborn, and mean spirited farmer in the high and dry plains of eastern Colorado.
It is told from the perspective of Roscoe, a neighbor friend who also grew up in this hardscrabble life of farming and whose father once loved the warm and tough Edith.
A dark tale for sure, but one that heralds the grace and bravery of certain folk who survived the tough realities of farming life on the Great Plains.
4,5*Viața îți oferă de-a lungul ei multe surprize, fără a tine cont de vârsta sau de restul lumii.Recenzia mea completă o găsiți aici: https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/suf...
The clues: a sack of chicken feed slit with a knife, a milky-eyed dog tied outdoors one cold afternoon." Really, you don't need to know anything else.
Having read those lines, don’t you have to know how that sack of chicken feed and a milky-eyed dog can prove anything?The story is told to us by Edith's neighbor, Sanders Roscoe.
Sanders Roscoe wants us to understand and so he speaks clearly.
At the end, even when you pretty much know what is going to happen, you sit there transfixed.
The ties of family are bound by blood.  Responsibility, taking up the slack, doing what is necessary to keep things going regardless of the toll it exacts.  It all comes through here in Holt, Colorado.  This type of richness achieved with such simplicity was Haruf's own special talent.

Sanders is the middle-aged son of John Roscoe, a man who had played an important role in Edith Goodnough's life.
But to understand how this 80 year-old woman came to be in a hospital bed guarded by a police officer, you need to gain an understanding of the Goodnough family history… and this is where Sanders Roscoe begins the story.
With her dreams deferred, Edith settled into the life she had always known, helping with the farm and caring for Lyman and Roy. John Roscoe went on to marry another woman and had a son; and finally, Lyman was able to work up his courage and he escaped from his father and the crushing hardship of farm work.
He can sure write old folks. And younger folks, and flinty ones that don’t do so good, weak ones that wish they could, bitter ones that are helpless to be anything else. This is just the way it is. Here is life. He illuminates grace in hidden corners.
If it is possible to write a gloriously entertaining story about the agony of being stuck, including horrible physical violence, Haruf did it. It starts as a funny tall tale, and keeps that flavor and structure, but oh how real it becomes!Mr. Haruf, wherever you are in the afterlife ether, I hope you can see me giving you a standing ovation and hear me cheering my damned head off.
The story is narrated by Sandy (Sanders) Roscoe, a close family friend and son of the man she loved and would have married if her life circumstances were different.
Sandy engages the reader in a second person dialogue as he unravels the life events that led up to new year’s eve of 1976 when Lyman, Edith’s 77-year-old brother, died.
Edith and Lyman are farm kids in the early 1900s and obliged to work the family farm after their father (Roy) becomes incapacitated in a farm accident.
I was introduced to Haruf by my husband and starting with his later books, he instantly became one of my favorites of all times.
This story was much more somber and dark than some of his later books.
He still details the hard life of his characters but with the Goodnough family I found no joy.
Life was hard and your neighbors and community were everything.
Haruf has the ability to create real and layered characters, ones which we are able to identify as people we have met in life.
In later books the reader is privy to the insights of multiple characters and I missed that here.
Che cosa ha commesso di così grave la quieta, mite, laboriosa Edith?Per saperlo, lettore, dovrai tornare indietro nel tempo, quando, a fine Ottocento, la terra promessa dal governo americano ai nuovi disgraziati pionieri del Midwest era una zolla polverosa di terra ostile, una distesa di sabbia arida da trasformare in pane col sudore della fronte, le imprecazioni, la tenacia dei sopravvissuti.E parlando di Edith, Sanders ti racconterà di Roy Goodnough, uomo crudele e duro, che trascina la docile moglie Ada nella pianura infausta e là si costruisce una casa, là alleva gli animali, là costringe la terra a obbedirgli, con ogni mezzo e a ogni costo.
...because when you know people all your life you try to understand how it is for them.
I love the Plainsong series, and whenever I want to read something that will settle me down and take me to a less rushed time and place I reach for one of Kent Haruf's books.
I'm so sad that I only have two books left, I'll have to keep them for emergencies.The Story: In The Tie That Binds, his critically acclaimed first novel, Kent Haruf delivers the sweeping tale of eighty-year-old Edith Goodnough.
I've been totally smitten with Kent Haruf since reading "Our Souls at Night" and only have a couple more books to go before I run out of Haruf books to read.
No doubt that, like all great books, they'll be even more rewarding in the course of a second read because I'll be able to appreciate connections between events and characters that may not have had the same significance in my first reading.
Like all of Haruf's books "The Tie That Binds" was totally engaging but heart-breaking.
Maybe some people do find his books depressing.
Rhythm of Holt Colorado during the late 19th and throughout the majority of the 20th century for two farmsteads/family lines that are neighbors.
Kent Haruf's exquisite writing style spread across nearly a century of the everyday for the characters from these two home groups.
It's just so bottom rung sad and shyness equates to intense lonely isolation, almost without a fully conscious cognition for what evolves.
Always the obligations, and that "other choice" of outside or away slipping further and further apart or beyond possibility for Edith?
By her limited language of outside response, just the section of her knowing she wills to explain.
4 stars.
I love the way Kent writes and enjoyed reading until about the half way point when It became clear that the lives and tale being played out were only going to worsen and the ongoing depressing storyline became tedious to experience.
Four stars is supposed to mean 'really liked it' but I didn't.
His descriptions of the unrelenting hardness of farming made me see why my mother and aunt left the one they grew up on as soon as they turned 18.
His description of what it's really like milking cows 24/7 put me right there in the barn.
My romantic idea of living on a farm is forever laid to rest.
I loved everything about this book. I have never read Kent Haruf before but now I have to read all his others.
4.5 Read Carol's truly wonderful review of this novel! The last paragraph of her review exquisitely and perfectly describes the feelings I also have about this author's work.
The Tie That Binds is the life story of Edith Goodnaugh, her brother and her parents.
It's the story of decisions and choices made by Edith or for Edith for the sake of "family".
The setting of The Tie That Binds is Holt, Colorado, the same small town setting of his other books.
The Tie That Binds is captivating and haunting.
As in the other two books I've read by Haruf, the pace and style of the book is simple, but his characters are profoundly moving.
I've read three of Haruf's four books and I'd highly recommend them all.
Many famous writers dance around you when you crack the cover of a Kent Haruf novel, but I don't mean to suggest that he's not his own man, his own writer.
But, here in his debut novel, I also felt the force of other great influences: Edith Wharton, Willa Cather, and Wallace Stegner, to name a few.I feel cheered by his ability to write in such a classic, yet modern way, and it fills me with hope to find that the best writers are not, indeed, all cold in the ground.
I still suggest his novel, Eventide, as his best work, but this was a great and perfectly readable first novel.
I read the following review on another venue and loved it -- I felt very much this way while reading this book and had to copy it:"…..The environment Haruf created is philosophically a deterministic naturalistic setting from whose grasp, the characters and the reader cannot escape.
From his view, the story unfolded, the characters became round and full, and their lives endured; thus, I, the reader, suffered the tragedies and, as Haruf dunked my head in the stench of it until my 'self' that demanded justice above all other values, could hardly breathe.
Set in the high plains of Colorado, just seven miles from the fictional town of Holt which features in all of Haruf’s novels, the book tells the tale of a pioneering farming family, the patriarch of which is a rather angry, embittered man called Roy Goodnough who comes from Iowa.But the story is not about Roy per se nor his delicate wife, Ada, but his daughter, Edith, who is born on the farm and spends her entire life on it, never having had the opportunity to marry or even leave home.
The Tie That Binds is Haruf's first book and Wow!
The book begins with a Denver reporter trying to cajole the backstory of kindly, 80-year old, Edith's murder charge from Sanders.
That is all I'm going to tell you, read the book if you want to know the rest.Haruf's subject matter and writing remind me of a big kettle of Steinbeck's, Stegner's and Ivan Doig's writing all stirred up into a tasty brew of storytelling.
If you don't like at least two of those authors, I doubt you would like this book.
The Tie That Binds is the rather unforgettable tale of Edith Goodnough born in 1897 in Holt County, Colorado.
As a reader you get to hear the authentic account of Sanders Roscoe, who in his simple words brings light and depth to the Goodnoughs’ lives, beginning with what Sanders knew from his own Dad, John Roscoe, who knew all the Goodnoughs from the time they settle in Holt County to farm.
It’s not that Edith did extraordinary things, but the story-teller grasps every fiber of humanity and hardship in his unvarnished recounting.
The sadness of a life of such self sacrifice was explored through the compassionate eyes of a young boy grown to adult about a woman Edith who is charged with murder when she is eighty years old.
Edith's life was one of tragedy, first being "enslaved" by a father who is dependent on his children, the tragic loss of her mother, violence, lack of kindness, and then onto her brother who literally forgot about her for twenty years and then comes home to her.
"Our Souls at Night" swept me away with its quietude and I expected nothing less from the next book I was recommended, which was "The Tie That Binds." This novel is similar in its quietude but there is a certain bleak beauty to it.
The rest of it, I believe."Roscoe's story takes us far back to the vestiges of the 19th century, to the fictional town of Holt in rural Colorado.
Sanders Roscoe was Edith's neighbour and there was a time when his father courted her and even asked her to marry him.
Later, Roscoe’s father passes away, Edith's brother, Lyman, who was living a peripatetic life returns home to live with his sister, and Roscoe is now married.
Haruf captures the essence of life in this Colorado plains farm country.
The Ada and Roy Goodnough came to the plains of Colorado from Iowa in the late 1890's.
They had two children - Edith and Lyman, who were no more than slaves for their father, especially after their mother died in 1914, when Edith was 17 and Lyman 15.The Roscoes - mother and son John - lived on the farm next to the Goodnough's.
He especially did not like it when John started courting Edith.
This heart wrenching story is told by Sandy Roscoe, John's son.
This novel is the third one of his I've read.
Like his other novels, it is set in and around the tiny town of Holt, Colorado, during the first half of the last century, and the characters are agricultural types.
Haruf's fiction technique in this novel is clever.
Haruf taught creative writing at Southern Illinois University, in Carbondale, but according to Wikipedia he now lives in Colorado, the state of his birth.
The only one of his novels I have not yet read is "Where You Once Belonged," and I have put that book on my reserve list at the library.
