https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10079.Mary_Queen_of_Scots
She was brought up in France, married a French prince, and felt more at home there than she ever did in Scotland (even later in life, she often signed her name as “Marie” instead of Mary).
Some genius at the CW decided that it would be an awesome idea to make a show about fifteen-year-old Mary’s life in France before she married Francis, and it’s basically if Gossip Girl did a Renaissance Faire episode after skimming a Tudor history book.
As I lay in bed at the end of each day of reading, my mind returned to this astonishing woman, who was a Queen in the sixteenth century, and acquired mythic status.
These brutal ‘nobles’ of sixteenth century Scotland, plotting like contemporary gangs to get the upper hand, to knife or be knifed.
It seems likely that the illness which gave rise to her infatuation was probably syphilis, presumably acquired during Darnley’s well-trumpeted life style.
He was a horrible young man and he met an ignoble death, in nothing but a night-gown in the garden of the house where assassins had intended him to die in an explosion.
It's fascinating to think about Mary, a ruling women in the 16th century whose marriages proved her undoing and led to her beheading, versus Elizabeth, who ruled in the same time but never married (never sharing her power) and had a far more successful reign that ended in natural death.
But still, it shows the vulnerabilities of being a female ruler during a time when marriage, not elections, was the key to gaining power.One of Fraser's greatest strengths is how she delves into who these women were so that they become three-dimensional and so that it's more like reading a novel than a history book.
But in the end I do recommend this book because the story of Mary Queen of Scots tragic life is compelling.
Twice a Queen, first of France than of Scotland.
Mary goes to Scotland where she marries a rake who murders one of Mary's courtiers before her eyes while she is pregnant with her son the future James I.
Her husband is later murdered and then a Scottish warlord rapes Mary Sicilian style as part of foreplay to wed her.
She flees Scotland seeking the protection of her cousin Queen Elizabeth who imprisons her for twenty years before beheading her.
Remember that time you thought your closest cousin was trying to have you assassinated and you thought it might be a good idea to execute her (after wrongfully imprisoning her for nineteen years)? Don't bother, 'cause you're going to die childless and her son is going to take over your throne, thus ensuring the survival of her line--not yours--for at least thirteen generations. That's what I got out of this book. Oh, and also that rebel lords aren't nearly so fun as they sound.
Mary Queen of Scots held my attention for the first 150 pages or so, but I felt as though it shifted after that point, losing some of its initial sparkle.
Fraser's effort is also a little protracted; it would have been better, and far more successful, had it been presented in a book of half this size.
The book could have been riveting - indeed, I thought it would be after reading the witty and amusing introduction - but it felt flat.I would like to pick up another Fraser in future to see how it compares, but I shouldn't think I will be doing so for quite some time.
This tome represents an impressive amount of research--too much if one expects a quick and easy read.
While the portrayal is sympathetic, the picture which emerges of Queen Mary is not very positive.
I was reminded of the late Princess of Wales, another sad figure unequal to her role.Of course, when one thinks of the roles such as Mary and Diana were expected to fulfill, one wonders if, in comparison, those who do well fill them aren't the real monsters.
If taken out of the inflated context, both of these women were actually rather normal and it is to this that Fraser is sympathetic.
A sad biography of the Queen of Scots. I have given this book three stars though my enjoyment was edging towards two stars. This is my second book of Antonia Fraser and I much prefer The Wives of Henry VIII. My interest lagged even though I love Fraser's writing style, I never felt pulled into this sad account of the misunderstood queen of Scots. I plan on reading her other books and I hope that I can enjoy them much more than I had of this one.
One of the best biographies on Mary, Queen of Scots. It is well researched and detailed; you don't have to be a history buff to enjoy this book. Fraser's writing style is very good, she keeps you hooked from the start. I do have some minor criticisms, one of them is how she presents Mary at tragic moments in her life. I felt like she was romanticizing her there. Other than this however, the book was great. I highly recommend it.
I want to read this because I want to answer the question, 'Why is everyone so fascinated by this damn woman??'. I've never liked her. I've always thought she was stupid, petty, petulant and self-indulgent. I pity her, but I've never respected her in the least. She seems to have some rabid fans. I'm curious as to why. Perhaps Fraser, whose voice I really like in her stories of Henry VIII's wives, will be able to explain it to me.
Early in the book, she starts talking about things like "the tragedy at Kirk o'Field" and compares trauma in Mary's life to that of "the trauma after the murder of Riccio." Apparently we already know a lot about Mary and her tragedy!
(Though Fraser has emphasized her ill looks up to now to vilify Elizabeth's harsh treatment of her, she now forgets about that and presents Mary as tall, strong, and if not beautiful, at least attractive once more.) When she was told afterward that she was to die, she resigned herself bravely to the execution.Then my admiration waned again.
I'm going to be a martyr!" Yay.i knew that after finishing the book, I'd choose which woman I liked more, Mary or Elizabeth.
Mary is brought thoroughly to life by the author’s skill in portraying the historic woman and equally the feminine woman, the young highly-educated daughter and wife.The author is outstanding in the research depth under-girding this book, and yet she does not flaunt the scholarship, or overburden the reader with her erudition.
What might have become a book overwhelming in nature, perhaps tedious and stultifying, has in Fraser’s hands become a picture of a many-sided rich life given absorbingly in a rapid pace.
BBC R4Now for the film:Vanessa Redgrave ... Mary Queen of ScotsGlenda Jackson ... Queen ElizabethPatrick McGoohan ... James StuartTimothy Dalton ... Henry - Lord DarnleyNigel Davenport ... Lord BothwellTrevor Howard ... William CecilDaniel Massey ... Robert DudleyIan Holm ... David Riccio
I learned things about Mary Queen of Scots that I probably would have never thought to look up, but was nice to know, the subtleties which really bring a character from history to life.
Not to mention I enjoyed learning of all the horrible things people did back then and didn’t seem to think there was a problem with it.
I will give Antonia Fraser a chance to redeem herself as I do love how factual she is, I just hope that she has learned to tell more of a story since 1969 when this book was first released.
A heavy read for sure...it's definitely not for bedtime as one has to be focused and attentive in order to grasp the history...also a basic knowledge of British history would not do harm in reading this book, as is perhaps the norm when reading such biographies.
The story of this sad, unfortunate queen is of great interest to all lovers of history.
It is riddled with tragedies and injustices and while reading one perhaps asks himself how much more this queen could have endured especially during her very long confinement in an English prison, being driven from one English castle to another.
A good and very interesting biography nonetheless, especially for the history lover out there.
Magnificent. Detailed historical drama of Mary Queen of Scots. Gripping story of a brave woman who had to endure an end sentence in death and who, ultimately, lived in squalid surroundings. The last few pages were dear and touching ~ particularly disheartening and tragic. I loved reading this book. The writing was so vivid as to become aware and to share the joys and tragedies of Mary Queen of Scots.~Charlotte Liebel
I have been reading strong women classics since after college when it was a choice. And a good one. Everyone should know the history of those who came before us. Mary Q of S!! So compelling. Bravo Antonia Fraser!
There is something about Mary, isn't there? Did she know or didn't she?Fraser's book is perhaps a little dated at this point, but, despite its pro-Mary bias, is a very good book at Mary.
Very good
I love reading books about English history. Antonia Fraser is one of my favorite authors. If you like English history, you'll like this book.
3.5 round up.Not bad; the end was rather gruesome.
Having been such an ardent fan of Elizabeth I, I felt it only fair to finally give Mary Queen of Scots a chance--especially since I had only a vague knowledge of her life.
Elizabeth threw her beloved Robert Dudley into the mix, but Mary ended up marrying a young dashing cousin, Lord Darnley, who she became quickly infatuated with and who also gave her a stronger claim to the English throne.
Mary sought help from England and ended up being imprisoned by Elizabeth for 19 years, rejected by her son, James, whom she hoped would also come to her aid.
The 30 year old paperback copy I read had folios falling out as I went. Towards the end, I threw each page into the trash once completed.3.5 stars. This was dry as dust and hard to get into for the first couple of chapters, but once it gets going, you can't set it down. It's hard to believe any of this actually happened, and yet here we are. Fraser sifted every particle of Mary's story. It's easy to see why no other book on Mary has come up to this standard.
Another delightful(ly sad) biography by Antonia Fraser! Yes, I did too five months to finish it but it was worth it as it cleared and expanded the little knowledge I had of Mary Queen of Scots. Antonia Fraser's biographies are worth reading almost for /just/ the ending chapter, honestly, way to make me tear every time.
3.5 starsI enjoyed many parts of this, but sometimes it was just so much detail.
Máriin život je dosť dychberúci a ona sama bola na svoju dobu pokroková, tolerantnejšia (a dosť viac než jej menovkyňa a tudorovská sesternica Mária I.) a v mladosti tak divoko odvážna, čo by sa dalo pretaviť do bohovského seriálu.
Tudorovna: "Nemôžeme dovoliť, aby sestra a sesternica naša, vydala sa skôr než my tak učiníme, za niekoho koho My neschvaľujeme.
nechaj sa zradiť vlastným deckom, ktoré ťa videlo len počas prvých 10 mesiacoch života 6.
I'm reading it for my Birth Year Challenge and the biggest questions in my mind is "Why did Antonia Fraser have to publish this in 1969?" and "What made me put it on my challenge TBR list?" Actually, I can answer that last one...I've always been fascinated by the history of the British Isles and I'd heard about this book long ago and far away.
Historical writing has come a long way in the last 41 years and there are a lot of writers out there who can take subject matter that is much less exciting than the life of Mary, Queen of Scots, and keep the reader waiting on the edge of their seat to see what comes next.Not Fraser.
I feel that it will appeal to people who are either serious history junkies or people who are just interested in reading more about this tragic offshoot of the Tudor dynasty, destroyed by her own family but ultimately the founder of the Stuart line who finally united the crowns of England & Scotland - although a person looking for a book that just hits the high points will find this to be way too much.
Fraser exhaustively looks at all the various outlandish events & tragedies that made up Mary's life, from her crowning as Scotland's queen at less than a year old right up to her execution at the behest of her cousin & fellow sovereign, Queen Elizabeth of England.
I have to say that I thought Fraser did a wonderful job with this book, it read almost like a novel for me, something that rarely happens with non-fiction.
It is so well balanced between imparting the informaiton to the reader and still keeping a fluid and interesting story going.
The life of Queen Mary truly sounded like it was right out of a Gothic novel.
I also liked the way in which this book offered a different look at Queen Elizabeth, a subject who is often glamorized and undeniably was a remarkable woman, but Fraser shows her in a much more human light.
Besides the story of Mary Queen of Scots there is a lot about the political atmosphere at the time and the conflict between the Catholics and Protestants in Scotland.
Lots of characters coming and going and lots of different castles in both Scotland and England being visited.
She "assumes" that you know the ending of Mary Queen of Scots life story.
I did learn the story of Mary, Queen of Scots and her relationship with Queen Elizabeth of England.
I do recommend this book if you want to learn about the British Royalty and the relationships between England, Scotland, France and Spain at this time in history.
