https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/163544.Little_Boy_Lost
Hilary hasn't seen his son since the day of his birth 5 years ago, and therefore knows nothing about him or even whether he would recognize him again.
Spending his time in a run down and stifling hotel with strange and unfriendly people, Hilary can only count on the brief meetings with the little boy Jean to make him come alive.
He of course has no idea whether boy is his or not, and soon time and money are running out for him to make a decision.
To put things into perspective- this is a story about Hillary, an English intellectual who returns into post-war France to look for his son.
I did agonize a great deal over the protagonist's behaviour while I was reading Little Boy Lost the first time.
Little Boy Lost is, to tell the truth, very depressing at times.
I think it mainly due to the fact that this novel is so successful at capturing the post war atmosphere.
Having recently reread Little Boy Lost, I have not only uncovered a whole new level to this novel, but I also realized that this novel stayed with me in ways that I didn't even realize.
Hilary has many unresolved emotions about his troubled relationship with his mother (characterised by "hostility and bitterness" from the first page), the certainty of his wife’s death and the uncertainty of his son’s existence, and this translates into awkwardness between him and Pierre (friend of his wife’s who tries to find his son) and indeed with everyone else.
He subsequent relationships with a couple of women show him in a very bad light.The boy who may be his son is living in an orphanage and Hilary meets him and takes him out for the afternoon several days running.
Hilary knows that Lisa was killed by the Gestapo but he has never known what happened to his son.Fast forward two year, after the war (WW2), Hilary sets off for Paris to meet Pierre and hear of his progress in the search for his little boy.
It wasn’t the Paris I know and love today and it wasn’t the Paris that Hilary had known and loved before the war.The story then moves to a town further North in France (only named A____) in the book, where Hilary is following up a lead from Pierre that his son had been taken to an orphanage there.
This is the third book i've read by Marghanita Laski and i've got to say now my favourite.This book 
Daisy, I just received a message that you liked a review I had written for a completely different book, The Bridge on the Drina.
Little Boy Lost finishes with a "sophisticated " afterword explaing why the book is so wonderful, so marvelous, so accomplished.
I hated the selfishness of this man who demanded to know with 100% certainty if the wretched little boy really was his own son.
Who was the little boy lost?
Take a guess!Even more horrible was the cop out way in which the author chose to end the book!!!
It tells the story of Hilary Wainwright, who has to leave his wife and new-born son in occupied France during WW2.
Thinking them safe while he does his bit, he discovers that Lisa has been caught and killed by the Gestapo, but not before she smuggled her young son out of the flat.
What follows is the search for his lost Son. It starts off fairly slowly but by the time I was halfway through, I was hooked and couldn't put it down.
I did find Hillary hard to like at times, but was full of pity (mostly) for him.
El corazón encogido se mantuvo durante las últimas páginas de la lectura.. expectante ante cuál sería la determinación final que adoptaría el personaje principal del libro. Mi segundo Marghanita Laski, un libro de ficción que relata una historia de realismo social con tintes dramáticos, no podía ser más diferente del primero suyo que leí no hace mucho, La chaise-longue victoriana, de terror psicológico con tintes esta vez góticos. Ambos me han gustado tanto que me encantará seguir leyendo a esta escritora.
You can also order books on-line at Persephone Books London.
Anyway - why I need to also tell you about this book is because of what Persephone books has been doing - and I think quite successfully.
I would never have discovered this book, or any of the others that I have ordered recently, unless Persephone Books had breathed new life and re-published them.
But the child is whisked away and a stranger come to notify the English man that the child may be alive.
On the surface, this story is about an Englishman, Hilary Wainwright, who returns to post-WWII France on a reluctant journey to find his son, John, whom he last saw as a newborn five years before and whose mother was killed during the war.
Her descriptions of Wainwright's whiling away time until his appointments to see the child are agonizing to read, but also mimic his reluctance to conclusively decide whether the child is truly his son.
So much of the book unspools in fits and starts; no route is direct, literally or figuratively, and it works perfectly here.
I was so engrossed that I probably would have missed my stop, had King’s Cross not been the end of the line.I cannot do the fabulous blurb of this book justice, so I have copied it below:Hilary Wainwright, an English soldier, returns to a blasted and impoverished France during World War Two in order to trace a child lost five years before.
I was on tenterhooks throughout, and this much adored novel ranks among my favourite Persephones so far.Hilary Wainwright, an English soldier, returns to a blasted and impoverished France during World War Two in order to trace a child lost five years before.
Pierre handles the highly-strung Hilary with care, surrounding him with like-minded people, but still this is not enough – Hilary takes against him once and for all when he discovers that the man is a Gaullist.The descriptions of post-war France are truly grim – this is a land that has lost all claims to morality.
Hilary has a disgust of all of these people and of the poverty across France, yet finds himself all too willing to pay black market prices if it means that he too gets the better wine.The book is lifted when Hilary visits the orphanage and is introduced by the nuns to little Jean, who is a truly endearing child.
Little Boy Lost is the second book I've read by Marghanita Laski - the first was The Victorian Chaise-Longue.
All through the book I was guessing what might happen - it wasn't really obvious what the outcome would be and I could think of several different possibilities, some good and some bad.The descriptions of post-war France are so vivid: the bomb-damaged buildings, the poverty, the food shortages - unless you were rich enough to take advantage of the black market, of course.
Initially, I felt that the narrative of this book was flat and stilted.
It is the tale of an Englishman, Hillary Wainright, who has endured the very worst tragedies that occured in those times.
He directs Hillary to an orphanage in a remote village where there is a little boy who could  possibly  be his child.
It is there that he spends time with the boy and is faced with a dilemma whether the child is his own.
Our main character, Hillary, damaged from his war experiences, is often apathetic and indecisive.
Overall, I felt a sense of foreboding and doom, fully expecting some catastrophe.
Originally published in 1949 - it tells the story of Hilary Wainwright and the search for his young son.
In 1942 Hilary learns his son - who he beived was being cared for by a woman in occupied France, who rescued the child following Hilary's wife's death - is in fact lost, possibly somewhere in France.
But Hilary is a tortured soul - a poet - he now finds himself resistant to feelings of love since his wifes death, and wonders if he really wants this child at all.
I won't say much more about the story as I know there are other Persephone fans out there who might one day read this book.
An Englishman goes to France after WWII to see if a child living in an orphanage could be his long lost son. The things that made this book special for me were the realistic picture of the devastation of the war on France and the pettiness and snobbery of the young father, Hilary, who is portrayed in all his flaws and weaknesses, hopes and fears. What my mother used to call a page-turner, the kind of book you want to keep reading straight to the end.
Thus, the book is as much about him trying to find his capacity to accept the pain of his past, and to open himself up to the possibility of love again, as it is about him tracking down the child.
The themes are also present in the setting itself, with France shown to be in a state of repair; trying in times of great hardship to reclaim its sense of culture and identity following decimation and liberation.The pacing and build up towards a sense of climax are excellent, and the emotional payoff is both perfectly pitched and hugely satisfying.
I haven't felt this emotionally invested in a story and a set of characters for quite some time.
Breathtaking.
Her husband, Hilary Wainwright, an Englishman whom she met while he was stationed in Paris, was separated from Lisa and their infant son during the war, and shortly after Lisa was taken away, the boy disappeared, apparently without a trace.
A few years later, Hilary, now back in London, receives a note from a French friend saying there may be a new clue that will lead them to young Jean in a small town in France.
Wainwright’s search leads him to an orphanage and a little boy (eight years old in the film; only five in the book) who just might be his son, but how can he be sure?
When he is forced to spend time getting to know John at the under-endowed orphanage where the boy has fetched up, he behaves abysmally, right up to the extraordinary scene where he decides to take some tart to the circus rather than the famished child who hasn't had a single treat since his mother died.
Throughout the book, Hilary puts his creature comforts first, spending lavishly on black market treats for himself while being openly scornful of the people who sell him these goods.
I found this to be a fascinating and often haunting read, that was beautifully written and knew just how to tug at your heartstrings as you follow Hilary and his quest to try and find his lost 5 year old son.He goes to France to visit an orphanage where his son may have been living and there he meets the nuns who have been taking care of Jean, the little boy in question.
There is no initial recognition but as he spends more time with the little boy the emotional bond begins to strengthen and Hilary is left to wrestle with the question of doing the right thing - by him and by the boy.
Englishman Hilary Wainwright is a veteran of WWII, which has just ended.
Could his son John have survived in unknown hands?Through the action of a young Frenchman dedicated to right a wrong, Hilary is sent to a young orphan child who may be his own lost son.
The pages that follow are rich as this young man faces the mystery of the child's identity in addition to his own imperfections and struggles to set the path of his future.
Laski is superb at unfolding this intimate family scene, while at the same time displaying the chaos, poverty and dissolution that was left in Europe after WWII.
I have put off reading it because I thought the premise was depressing: man loses wife to the gestapo in Paris then loses his son in the effort made to save the little boy's life and after the war decides to look for him.
But I was unfair and misjudged Laski - Little Boy Lost is far more subtle, complicated and compelling than that.
Laski captures the fear, anguish, joy and learning curve of parenthood in the midst of describing a man's personal journey toward acceptance of himself, his choices, his losses, his loves against the backdrop of unspeakable atrocity and numbness in post-war Britain and Paris.I was particularly struck by the delicate handling of the British-French relationship and disparate conditions after the war.
This novel was first published in 1949 and I read it decades ago.
Then recently I saw the title in some 'favourite reads' list, and ordered it from the library.Set initially in the war, it tells the story of a British man whose beloved wife Lisa, whilst living in Paris, has been killed by the Germans.
Then he hears a rumour that Lisa managed to send him away, and the book is about his visit to a poor orphanage to decide whether a small child called Jean is his son.This is a lovely book for a rainy afternoon - to be read in one sitting!John Betjeman, writing in the Daily Telegraph wrote "An extremely good novel, fascinating to English readers .....
Written in 1949, this perfectly plotted novel tells the story of the search by a widowed English poet and intellectual for his five year old son, lost in Paris during WW2.
Still mourning the death of his wife, his feelings towards this boy, whom he met just once as a tiny baby, are ambivalent, as are his feelings about fatherhood.
Nevertheless, he visits a bombed-out town in Northern France where a boy has been found in an orphanage who may or may not be his.
The stars of this book are the boy, and post-war France, brilliantly evoked by the author.
This book held my attention enough that I read it all in a single day It's a psychological study of a man who knows that he had a child born at the beginning of the occupation of Paris whom he never saw again.
Given a chance to return to France and meet a possible son, his hesitations and deliberations are told in great detail as they swing wildly from minute to minute.
The child he meets is especially endearingly portrayed without over-sentimentality.
My assessment is minus a final star because I am too old to believe in the instant lust that develops between him and a particularly unattractive woman.
4.5
Heart-wrenching. Could kill Hilary at times - many times, in fact - but little Jean "walks right into your heart" as the Afterword says.
Laski writes well and skilfully evokes the postwar despair, the mismatched conversation between a child and an adult, the painful uncertainty.
(view spoiler)[He would let a young undernourished child suffer the privations described rather than save him from hunger, disease and emotional neglect because of his selfish preoccupations with his own suffering.
Cushioned by his wealth, the adult was more immature than the child.Edited: one day later and I am still angry with the selfish and cowardly main character and the unsatisfying denouement of this book.
The Nelly character was just a foil to make the final choice more shocking but the whole episode with her didn’t ring true to me.
Set at the end of WW2 this is about a man in search of his small son who was given up when his wife was arrested and killed by the Germans in Paris.
She’d tried to hide him with a friend who also gave him away before her arrest.
He’s away back in England doing war work.
Hilary is not very nice at times judgemental and arrogant and there are occasionally glimpses of a kind man.
At the end he is about to make a most awful mistake but doesn’t.
A fascinating gripping and at times uncomfortable read.
