https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46456.The_Women_s_Room
It had been a really shocking expreince for a girl of 16 in Tehran to read the story of a woman in the 60s who had almost the same situation the women today in Iran have.I had read a room of one's own & so many other feminist (?) books by the time, but I can not say that they had that great effect on me... It was so awakening.
Wow. I'm not sure how to encapsulate this important 500-page feminist novel in a review, so I'll keep my comments brief and just suggest strongly that anyone with an interest in feminist thought or feminist history must read this incredibly raw, honest and ominous novel.
It's one of those vital books that has fallen off of our radar.
Though a historic novel, its content is not outdated.
It would be easy to dismiss this book as outdated and irrelevant.
It is a sad novel, a hard one to read.
But I'm telling you, it's vitally important.
I haven’t read it yetA Room with a View – a rather lovely song by Noel Coward – the intro contains the lines:I've been cherishing through the perishingwinter nights and days a funny little phraseThat means so much to me that you've got to beWith me heart and soul- for on you the whole thing leansYou don’t get that kind of grammar in modern songsRoom at the Top – a vicious British social satire from 1957The Beautiful Room is Empty – Edmund White’s brilliant autobiographical novel from 1988The Women’s Room – a devastating feminist novel from 1977 which maybe these days might come across as all obvious stuff I guess.
What I learned from this book: - I am about as privileged as is possible in terms of when and where I was born. - This fact isn't going to shield me from the more insidious forms of subordination that still permeate most things. - Generational patterns are really difficult to break, and if we think "everything's different now" we're overlooking some pretty big similarities. - There's still a hell of a lot of work to do. - I really don't want to get married.
One of a circle of neighbors who for a period of months sometime in the seventies gathered nearly every afternoon to talk and have a drink before dispersing to prepare meals for families loaned me this book or recommended it - I think I went and bought my own copy to read.
I began it about 4:30 one day and think there may have been pizza at my house for dinner that evening because I barely stopped reading from the moment I began to the moment I finished -- which was around 10:30 the next morning.This was the first book in years which demanded that immedite attention and it has stayed strong since.
Because it's not so much that I can read this book and say "Wow, it's so good this shit doesn't happen anymore" - it's because I can read this book and say "Wow, it's still horribly relevant today."I can pick up this book that was published a year before I was born and read this story that starts in the 1950s and I can still relate to the experiences the women experience - if not directly in a personal sense, then because I know people who match the experiences in the book.
In one of those odd synchronicities, I was midway through the first half of this book when my husband and I watched the second-to-last episode of From Earth to the Moon, The Original Wives' Club.
What struck me about the women in the episode was that, although the show painted it as the extraordinary sacrifices these women made to support their astronaut husbands, most of what they showed was exactly mirrored in The Women's Room as the things that most suburban housewives did.
You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Plainly speaking, your opinion on feminism will likely be your opinion on this book.
It doesn't pretend to be apolitical in the least.In that respect, as I write this review in 2015, I find myself wondering if this book is actually relevant anymore.
It's definitely something that had value when it was published, but both the world and feminism have moved on: the focus of this book on middle-class white women is no longer as relevant when the forefront of activism is now intersectional.
Honestly, if you want to learn about the history of feminism - go for it and read this book; it's well-written and reflective.
Many men still think that women are inferior.
Many women think this too.
But at the end, there are always the damned dishes."So many of the issues raised in this book are as relevant and as pertinent as they were back in the 60s and 70s, especially childcare v career, attitudes to rape and so on, and it is well worth a re-read.Because the sad truth is...plus ça change, plus c'est la même chose.
In retrospect, I can say that, while "The Women's Room" wasn't always an enjoyable book, it was an important book, a narrative worthy of my time and attention in that it is a significant perspective of the life of the middle-class woman pre- and post- second wave feminism.
These are stories of women who, behind the facade of the upwardly-mobile white middle class, are kept for, literally, the fee of their life and well-being.
For that reason, the prose is often rushed and dense to the point of overcapacity.
An important book for me (and for more than a few women I know). The Women's Room is sort of Betty Friedan/The Feminine Mystique in novel form. The depictions of the middle-class lives of women and mothers in the 1950s and early 1960s are compelling. The stories of the women who moved in or into other realms in the later 1960s and through the 1970s show that sexism certainly didn't evaporate with feminism or with womens' moves out of an entirely domestic sphere.
"The Women's Room" is considered one of the most important novels of the feminist movement.
If you are interested in the feminist movement, you might consider reading it just for that reason.
From the author's 1993 introductory essay:"Men can complacently continue to exalt rationality, power, possession, and hierarchy, and to justify domination as a necessary and natural principle, unhampered by the criticism of women or men who entertain a different value system.
Men in power do not even hear radical criticism because they have pre-labeled it invalid, soft-headed, or insane.
I doubt that many young (this generation) readers could relate to this book.
And I think that is wonderful - because it is due to this book, others like it, and all the women of the past who questioned and caused changes that this generation can feel freer as women.
But it is also risky to dismiss it.
Este mal no era otra cosa que el vacío, la frustración que sentían muchas mujeres que abandonaban una vida profesional para ser las perfectas madres y esposas protagonistas de un anuncio de detergente de los años 50.
No se si es la protagonista o no, porque el libro está lleno de historias de las mujeres que acompañan a Mira, primero adosadas en el mismo barrio y después en la universidad."Mira pensaba que cada una de ellas era más importante para las demás que sus propios maridos.
It's unapologetically depressing from the very start, almost too brazenly in-your-face till midway, where Mira's life starts seemingly (dare I say it) comforming (!) to stereotypical feminists of the 70s.
Then suddenly, about 100 pages till the end of the book, it's like one bomb drops after the other and by the end of it all, the reader is left as weary as Mira's narrative.
French throws the book at its readers like a hot pot of spaghetti sauce.
It's really up to you to enjoy what's left on your face, or clean up the mess.
The Women's Room follows Mira through life.
It begins in a basement women's bathroom as Mira perches on the edge of a toilet, hiding in the stall.
We are introduced to a handful of friends in many different phases of her life, and then we are given a sneak peek into their living room windows as well.
Never have I ever read a book that represented so many different women and their relationships with themselves and each other so well and realistically.
My mother gave me 'the Women's Room' with the caveat that when she first read it it made her so angry that she wouldn't speak to my father all weekend (the poor man did nothing!).
It is this brand of feminism that, as a practical but vocal advocate of women's continual advancement, thoroughly riles me up.
The book is filled to the brim with silly, ridiculous scenarios that cannot be taken seriously (I recall a woman having a panic attack over a dream about sanitary napkins...
It is ludicrous to think that anyone ever took this pile of tosh seriously.
Samantha Ellis struck a chord when in How to Be a Heroine: Or, What I've Learned from Reading too Much she observed: It might seem odd that I was reading all these books about how to put down your dishcloth and leave your husband. I didn't have a husband. It was my mother's life I was trying to leave. Yes, I realized, that's why we were all reading The Women's Room.
I first read this in college and a few times after that. It really brought to life the concepts outlined in The Feminine Mystique. It illustrated the roots of the feminist movement, which were mostly based on women's discontent and emptiness about being limited to the role of wife and mother. The characters are pretty much middle class white women, which is not the voice of all feminists at that time, but still an interesting one.
Sort of a generic summary, but the notability of the story comes from the feminist history, thought, and theory that each character acknowledges, discusses and experiences.
But, at the heart there's exposure of the truth, which is also something often talked about in the novel, and the side of the story that is almost never told.
There is not enough praise for the novel for the fact that it took on such a strong group and enhanced their abilities and truths.
For every modern day feminist, or those looking for some base, this is where your fire should come from.
It's long, it's heavy-handed, it's off-putting, it's profoundly depressing, and whatever its intentions, it leaves a reader with the impression that the women's movement has left women more unhappy than ever (which I doubt very much is what French was hoping to accomplish).I am also extremely tired of having this exchange (the flip side of the identity politics coin which says you have to hate certain books because of who wrote them or what they are about or because they contain opinions that you find objectionable, now we also have to love a bad book because of its special pet issue, as if novels were like little morality skits, simpleminded, preachy, unconcerned with language or complexity, like treatises only without the benefit of argument, evidence, clarity): Nicole: I didn't like this book.Interlocutor: You know the women's movement changed my life.Look at the exchange again.
As I read this book and examined how completely it rang true, I was so enraged, my professor noticed and started spending time talking with me about how women had been been treated throughout history, the changes women were now making, and the hardships we faced fighting for our rights.
I recommend this book to both women and men to see what things were like even in the late 20th century and what the fight for equal rights has been like.
This book was awesome.
I decided to read it since in skimming the first few pages of the book in the store that I could learn about the atmosphere for being a young married woman in the 1950's and 1960's which would give me insights into what my own mother went through.
The book was compelling and rich in the character development and I can understand how it influenced a generation of women who read it when it was originally published in 1977.
I only wish I had discovered this book sooner.
I am going to go on and read more from Marilyn French.
This novel has been in my personal collection since 1981, when I first read it and was deeply touched by certain scenes, but had since forgotten most of it. Reading it 26 years later brought back some of the earlier memories, but now through an awareness of how my perceptions have changed since then. Perhaps no longer directly relevant to the feminist cause today, this book is still a powerful overview of women's issues from my and my parents's generations. This one has re-emerged near the top of my most-meaningful book list.
I cant honestly say that I enjoyed reading this book. It is a raw, confusing, description of a time that I lived through having been born in 1945. However, the themes that are part of this book are very real to me. Growing up in the 1950s, my mother didnt work outside the home and neither did any of my friends mothers. Though it seemed the normal way of life, it was difficult for women as wives and mothers working to keep families going and not really having lives of their own. I thought that th
Though it seemed the normal way of life, it was difficult for women as wives and mothers working to keep families going and not really having lives of their own.
I thought that this was very accurately depicted in the book through the main character Mira, and the life she lived with her husband Norm, and their two children Normie and Clark.
Through her use of a narrator we learn what a difficult time this was for women and men as they tried to navigate the changing ideas that were so much apart of the early struggles of the women´s movement.
Read this closer to the original publication date, and recently revisited, for book club.It is both interesting to see how far feminism and women's rights have come since the 1970's - and how far they have yet to come.
As a classic work, it is worth reading, but it is slow going with a lot of sprawl in various directions, that nonetheless tie together to show that options for American women - even white, comparatively privileged American women - have rarely been all that great, even when they "did everything right."
What a book.
I have been puzzled and bothered about the way men and women relate to one another all my life.
Having been a married woman for 20 years, I have experienced or witnessed equivalent scenarios to several of the characters in the book.
The book takes the reader through stages of life.
The characters are each like people I have known or would like to know.
Life is challenging.
The book makes that clear.
And the conclusion though it is also a potential reality, is not the reality I want for my life or that of my child.
This is truly one of the absolute best books I have ever read.
Marilyn French is a genius.
For any woman who has ever struggled with anything in her life, no matter how large or small.
This book should be a must read.
Read with an open mind and the whole book takes on a different tone.
I ran across a quote and this book in college and then saw in in a used book pile in the library several years ago.
I have read it many times and get so much every time I do.
A definite addition to the female library.
Wow, I had to force myself through to the end of this book.
I think if I had read this as a young idealistic college student, I would have that it was incredible.
Reading it as a 45 year old professional in a male dominated field, I am discouraged by how little has actually changed.
The media, politics and academia still drive home the predominant themes when it comes to women, and they are destructive themes.
Overall, this book just depressed the hell out of me and made me hate everyone, just like Val in the end.
The beauty of The Women's Room, for me, lays in the way it's written.
It's well put together and constructed.
The story moves in the right pace, the book's not too long and it reaches levels deeper than just the main plot.
In addition to a story that is interesting and moving, thought provoking and enjoyable, there is a whole lot of thought put into the way society works, the way we work within it's borders and where we are going.
The book is heavy in its topic but written in the way that it doesn't feel like a chore to get through.
