https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/109330.Kalki_s_Parthiban_Kanavu_Dream_of_Parthiban
My suggestion is first read "sivagamiyin sabatham" then read this novel.
But i read these books in reverse order.
The book is really awesome and very very delighting.
There are very decent twist and turns you can enjoy reading till end.The pace in which the story travels is fantastic.
I can't stop pondering over the fact that today we have such popular novels like lord of the rings, harry potter and game of thrones and amazing on screen adaptations of these too.
Such an enchanting story entwined with real history would be a delight to see on screen!
I have no clue whether the subtelity got lost in the translation or whether Kalki's work is liberal with the clues too.Its a highly entertaining read that rarely sags and almost every page has something wild and racy happening.People who like stories of kings and conquests will definitely like this.I am a history junkie,so i am not really surprised that i liked the book despite the very ordinary language.But one can't deny the fact that the abridged translation is neat and edited tautly.Overall good read.
For those who wish to enjoy Kalki's genius yet do not have the patience for " Ponniyin Selvan" , this is a smart shortcut !
When Narasimha Varman went to war with Pulikesi, Chola king stopped to pay taxes.
Narasimha Varman successful return after defeating Pulikesi he summons the Chola king to pay the taxes.
In the war Parthiban is defeated while on his death he meets a mystic monk (Saivite saint) who promises in helping Vikraman to realize his dream, before the king closes his eyes he comes to know who the monk is.
Some years later Vikraman disguises as Gem merchant comes back to Mamallapuram on the way to Uraiur he was ambushed by his uncle and Kabala Bairavar and was saved by a Pallava spy (mystic monk).
Intrigue, suspense, romance, valor, courage, villainy, revenge, envy, loyalty, all showcased within a intricate story filled with unexpected twists and turns makes this an excellent historical romance, told with all of Kalki's trademark ability. Perhaps that a fuller and more measured treatment of the story - a la Ponniyin Selvan - would have been more satisfying...but then again, you can't have everything. A gripping page turner!
Oh such an exciting sequel of Sivagamiyin Sabatham. Time just flies in Kalki's novel. You travel with the characters for year, you see their birth, their childhood, their adolescent, their love, their entire life as if it is your own. I can't define by words. I feel proud to be a tamizhian, born on the same land these great people have lived. RESPECT.LOVE.
A sequel to Sivagamiyin Sabadham. However I finished this earlier. Now the urge to visit mahabalipuram is even stronger. Vikrama chozhan's love for Kundavi has been crafted very beautifully.. A must read..
Reading this novel has been a spine chilling experience for me.This novel deals with the attempts of Vikraman,son of Chola king Parthiban, to attain independence from the Pallava ruler, Narasimhavarman.The Cholas remain vassals of the Pallavas.
Parthiban conveys his dream of the Chola dynasty regaining its glory – which he believes is lost since they are no longer the independent rulers of their land – to his young son Vikraman.
He also comes to know that the beauty he has fallen for, Kundhavi, is none other than the daughter of his sworn enemy, Narasimhavarman.The final parts of the story is about finding out the real identity of the monk and how the dream of King Parthiban came true after 300 years...
When I was pursuing my Master's degree (2003) at Government College of Technology, Coimbatore, it was happened to read Kalki's "PARTHIBAN KANAVU" (thanks for my room-mate a good reader then), ofcourse I started the novel by 7.10 pm as a short time pass until the dinner 7.30 pm.
Immediately I bought his other books, ponniyin selvan and sivagamiyin sabatham they are astounded then I switched to similar kind of novels and grew frantic in reading.
I don't want to review these three books (Parthiban Kanavu, Sivagamiyin Sabatham and Ponniyin Selvan)because these three books are such an extraordinary and scarcely exceptionally written in Tamil.
The first of the trilogy of Kalki's historical magnum opuses, 'Parthiban Kanavu' boasts the richness of the Tamil Nadu and its people during the reign of Chola and Pallava dynasties.
Written in a simple and lucid style without compromising the parlance of the language, this book is the best starter for anyone new to Tamil historical fictions.
The characterization is brilliant and the plot cleverly synergizes historical events and creativity to portray a brilliant story.
A good not-to-be-missed book especially if you are a novice in historical fictions considering the limited number of pages!!

I'm going to be generous with my stars here and give this one 5 shining stars.
But that doesn't mean it isn't good.
It is; Just not Kalki's best.
Still it is one of the better historical novels you can find in tamil.
It is not long or as well-written as his other two masterpieces and I remember finishing it in hours.
I have a definite soft spot for it since it is the first ever novel I read.
I should thank my dad for introducing me into the wonderful world of novels.
Although now, he seems to be regretting that since he can't get me to stop reading.
well penned Tamil classic by kalki. The characterisation was too good. The flow of story seems to be guessing but with that mystery saivite monk thrill and suspense has been cleverly maintained by author. The pace of the story is as good as watching a movie. we can't time travel but if want to meet pallava and chola kings one can travel in parthiban kanavu. so overall PARTHIBAN KANAVU - parthiban kanavilirundhu meezhvadhu sulabam alla...adhan thaakam vazhnaal muzhuvadhum thodarum!!
This book gave me a new experience..Yes this is the of any stuff that i read in my own native language...""TAMIL""..I take pride of my self that I successfully started my first book in Tamil..A sense of pride flows through my veins to say myself TAMIZAN.ABOUT THE AUTHOR:I have already heared some great things about AMARAR KALKI....I used to see many great people whom I Inspire took Kalki as Inspiration..After reading this book I came to know the reason..
Great to know this history with non-fictional incidents and characters. This is will the great book if any read this before "Ponniyin Selvan". If you get into this after PS, you will feel very normal as this won't fascinate in wy as PS did. Strictly IMO. :)As a whole, Worth the read
Good historical novel to read.. It will be best, when you take it after reading Sivagamiyin sabatham. This is more or less like a sequel to Sivagamiyin Sabatham. Definitely we ll get inspired to visit Mahabalipuram after reading this combo...
Very well written, easy to read book, but feels like a dress rehearsal to Ponniyin Selvan
The author did not hurt both pallavas and chozhas... A fairy tale ending perhaps... Good but I would have been interested if it had had some bitter truths, when you plot for a throne.
The heros of SS - "Narasimha Pallavan" and "Paranjothi @ Siruthondar" play important roles here in PK as well.The story revolves around Vikrama Cholan, Narasimha Pallavan, his daughter Kundavi, Marappan (Vikraman's uncle), a rower family on the banks of cauvery - Ponnan and Valli and the suspense characters of Sivanadiyar and Kabala Bairavan.The story starts with the dream and tragic death of Parthiban, Vikraman's plan and attempt to dethrone Pallava base from Uraiyur.
The events after Vikraman's meeting as a prisoner in front of Mamallan sets up the base for the rest of the story.Unlike Ponniyin Selvan or Sivakamiyin Sabadham, this one is a relatively short novel.
I completed reading the entire novel in my mobile phone MotoG, from Project Madurai site.
Project Madurai contains a huge lot of Tamil literary works.
My first tamil read in sometime and was suitably rewarded for sticking to my long pending list of authors i wanted to read.The book narrates the story of the mighty Pallava king Narasimhavarman and the story of Vikraman, son of Parthiban the brave-hearted Chozha king.
Reduced to a Vassal kingdom, the chozha king Parthiban refuses to pay tax to Pallavas and dies bravely.
His dream of establishing an independent Chozha kingdom forms the core of the story.Dealing with multiple themes from espionage to love story to valor to courage to human sacrifice, this book has explored the South India of past.
The tamil historical novel by Kalki Krishnamoorthy tells about the love between estranged Chola prince Vikraman with Pallava princes and daughter of Narasimhavarma Pallva, Kundhavi.
Vikraman's father Parthiban, a heir of the almost extinct Chola empire is defeated in the war by Narasimha varma.
The monk-in-disguise is non other than the Emperor Narasimha varma.
The rest of the story tells how he trains the young man before giving his daughter as a bride to him and the country he owned to make him an independent ruler.
The epic-story teller, Kalki has marked this novel also with unforgettable stamp of authority over knowledge of Tamil and imagination.
இது கலகி கிருஷணமூரததி அவரகளால கலகி இதழில தொடராக எழுதி வெளியான புகழ பெறற வரலாறறுப புதினமாகும. இது பினனர நூலாக வெளிவநதது. இசசரிததிரக கதையில பாரததிபன எனும சோழ அரசனின கனவு அவரின புததிரன மூலம எவவாறு நிறைவேறுகினறது எனபது அழகாகக கூறபபடடுளளது. நரசிமம பலலவன, சிறுததொணடர எனகினற பரஞசோதி போனற வரலாறறுப பாததிரஙகள இககதையில வருகினறனர. கலகியின மறறொறு புதினமான சிவகாமியின சபதததில வரும பல கதாபாததிரஙகள பாரததிபன கனவிலும தொடரவதை காணலாம.
இது கல்கி கிருஷ்ணமூர்த்தி அவர்களால் கல்கி இதழில் தொடராக எழுதி வெளியான புகழ் பெற்ற வரலாற்றுப் புதினமாகும். இது பின்னர் நூலாக வெளிவந்தது. இச்சரித்திரக் கதையில் பார்த்திபன் எனும் சோழ அரசனின் கனவு அவரின் புத்திரன் மூலம் எவ்வாறு நிறைவேறுகின்றது என்பது அழகாகக் கூறப்பட்டுள்ளது. நரசிம்ம பல்லவன், சிறுத்தொண்டர் என்கின்ற பரஞ்சோதி போன்ற வரலாற்றுப் பாத்திரங்கள் இக்கதையில் வருகின்றனர். கல்கியின் மற்றொறு புதினமான சிவகாமியின் சபதத்தில் வரும் பல கதாபாத்திரங்கள் பார்த்திபன் கனவிலும் தொடர்வதை காணலாம்.
The book which is a sequel to 'Sivakamiyin Sabatham' is a nice historical work by Kalki. The story is awesome with historical background. The portrait of Pallava King and his ruling is excellent. The context in which 'Paranjothi' used is unpredictable.The story gives us the information about the kingdom with its bravery and the villains mingled with 'Kabalikas'.
The novel is good.But, the narrative is very similar to Ponniyin Selvan. The set up is a different time in history but you cannot help notice the similarities between PS & PK.The story is aligned with history to the maximum. Instead of reading history books, kids can be given such books to make TAMIL history more attractive...Very good novel with racy script. A GOOD ONE from Kalki.
This is one amazing novel in tamil.It is short , historic and romantic.The historic accounts mentioned in this book is true.One actually gets to know the history of Tamil Nadu through Kalki's work. awesome book. Maybe I am biased about the book because I am a Tamil as well.But this book is really a good work.
This is absolute awesome book.It has love, responsibility and adventure.Thanks to Kalki for the happy ending...Awesome king and her daughtersurprisingly... I like some more characters Valli , her grand father and kullan...Kullan is very interesting char..Totally complete package.. :-)
A novel talks about King Narasimha Varman who flourished at South India and his courage . This story happend at nearly 7th century . Point is during his reign Pallava dynasty was at its heights .But none of us had known what would happen after 300 Years . The rise of king Raja Raja Cholan !
I read this novel immediately after finishing Sivagamiyin Sabatham. just like Ponniyin Selvan this novel also about Chozha dynasty. Most of the characters in Sivagamiyin Sabatham used in this novel as well. One can get similar thrill of Sivagamiyin Sabatham by reading both back to back.
I'm glad that I read this book after completing Sivagamyun Sabatham. I missed Narasimha Varman more than anything. I am happy to read about cholas after long time.This book is must read for the lovers of Sivagamyun Sabatham.Kalki never fails to amuse me.
Very Good narration.Hope kalki got the inspiration to wrote ponniyin selvan from this novel but we are able to find the mystery character very easily. Still this is very good book to read. Read before ponniyin selvan.
