https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/400881.Shadows_Linger
☠ Buddy reread with the clueless new mercenary recruits Elena and Maria over at BB&B. Under the wicked supervision of our Ever-Stalking Black Company Overlord (ESBCO™), of course ☠➽  And the moral of this reread is : this series is a neverending source of inspiration for people who are in the nefarious business like me. Take this instalment for example: it features the best recycling advice ever, and offers lots of wonderfully handy, practical ideas on using, um, waste, as building material.
Anyone who has read book 1 in this series will tell you Cook doesn't do 1-page chapters.
Anyone who has read book 1 will tell you that chapter 1 is not only 600-pages long, but also confusing as hell.
So. My awesome point is: as hard as getting into the first book was, I fell in love with Cook's writing and was initially disappointed in the dramatic change of style for this instalment.
Because while The Black Company was about deliciously immoral mercenaries (aka the bad guys who work for the bad guys) (view spoiler)[I'm in ♥ (hide spoiler)] and Wickedly, Epically Evil, Larger than Life Villains (WEELLV™), Shadows Linger focuses more on ordinary, everyday evil.
People who read my rants called reviews know I love criticizing blurbs.
These two seemingly unrelated plotlines gradually converge for an exciting and fast-paced result; this is a trope Glen Cook uses with great success several times in other books.What is really noticeable is the different style of this installment.
This one is actually more interesting at times than Croaker's tale of the Company.
I have good news for people who managed to finish the first book, but thought the writing style was hard to follow.
In this case I am talking about the Book of North trilogy of the Black Company.
If you’re smart, you plan for it.”The second Chronicle of the Black Company does not seem to be better than the first one, but I think that it is rather an impression caused by subjective factors than hard facts.
In the second volume, we continue to follow the fate of the Company as it is written down by Croaker, and the good news is that it reads easier than its predecessor mainly due to the fact that we already know the main characters, the setting, and the plot.
It was a good book but Glen Cook doesn’t do any info-dumping so it is definitely a ‘learn as you go’ kind of book and I needed a little help along the way.The good news is that Shadow’s Linger flows much much better.
Two, it is split so that some of the story is told from the annals of the Black Company and Croaker while the other half is mostly from a cowardly inn keeper named Marron Shed.I liked Shadow’s Linger more than The Black Company for a few reasons.
“What kind of place is this?” “I don’t know, Shed.
Shadows Linger (The Chronicle of the Black Company, #2), Glen CookThe Black Company is a series of dark fantasy book written by American author Glen Cook. The series combines elements of epic fantasy and dark fantasy as it follows an elite mercenary unit, The Black Company, through roughly forty years of its approximately four hundred-year history.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: سرگذشت گروهان سیاه؛ کتاب دوم - سایه های ابدی؛ نویسنده: گلن کوک؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ ویراستار: گود
The series combines elements of epic fantasy and dark fantasy as it follows an elite mercenary unit, The Black Company, through roughly forty years of its approximately four hundred-year history.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پنجم ماه می سال 2016 میلادیعنوان: سرگذشت گروهان سیاه‏‫؛ کتاب دوم - سایه های ابدی؛ نویسنده: گلن کوک؛ مترجم: آیدا کشوری؛ ویراستار: گودرز پایکوب؛ تهران، کتابسرای تندیس، 1394؛ در 472 ص؛ شابک: 9786001821578؛؛گروهان سیاه، سربازانی مزدور در خدمت بانو هستند که در برابر شورشیانِ «رز سپید» می‌ایستند.
با این حال اکنون برخی از افراد گروهان دریافته ‌اند دختر کر و لالی که نجات و پناهش داده ‌اند، تولد دوباره ‌و حقیقی رز سپید است.
Glen Cook delivers another winner and sets up the last book in the series beautifully.The book has two main story-lines.In one we follow some ex Black Company members as they while away their days in Juniper and a couple of local inhabitants who are mostly up to no good.In the other we follow The Black Company on their never-ending conquest for The Lady.
Something is missing.In the middle of it all, we have the Black Castle.It started out as a little black rock lying beside a dead man.
And the rock started growing.
This review contains spoilers for the first book in the series. Way, way back, when the Domination was aborning, centuries before the foundation of the Lady’s empire, the Dominator overpowered his greatest rivals and compelled them into his service. He accumulated ten villains that way, soon known as the Ten Who Were Taken. When the White Rose raised the world against the Dominator’s wickedness, the Ten were buried with him. She could destroy none of them outright. Centuries of peace sapped the
This review contains spoilers for the first book in the series.
When the White Rose raised the world against the Dominator’s wickedness, the Ten were buried with him.
Within two they were embattled with the Rebel, whose prophets agreed the White Rose would be reincarnated to lead them to a final victory.
The Lady managed to Take three Rebel chieftains to replace a portion of her losses: Feather, Journey, and Whisper— likely the best general since the White Rose.
They expected a reincarnated White Rose to lead them.
Another thing I really enjoy about these books is the character writing.
3.5 stars. I am amused, and wondering how everything is going to work out.
And in the end the Company ends at a very different place (and no I'm not speaking geography here) from where they started.The pace of this book is different and this is reflected in the shorter, rather choppy chapters that make you feel the same hectic tension Croaker experience when he learns of (view spoiler)[Raven and Darling's  (hide spoiler)] presence and the potential ramifications of it.
Easier to follow than it's predecessor, it does still have parts that are hard to follow, especially when talking geography and battle strategy.
A faceplate map would have been nice when we are talking about plains, mountains and thousand-mile treks.
This time the company heads to the ends of the continent, which, coincidentally, is where Raven and Darling are hiding out.
Meanwhile, actions on the part of Raven and the innkeeper are making events progress rapidly at the castle.
Croaker starts to play a dangerous game, concealing Raven's actions from the Lady while otherwise working for her interests there.
Shadows Linger was even better than the first book in The Black Company series. It had all the positives of the first book and successfully replaced the slow campaign marches with some exciting intrigue. I worried about the split POV's for a while, but it worked out well in the end as Maron Shed turned out to be as fascinating a character to read about as Croaker. After the way this book ended I'm looking forward to reading The White Rose. Rating: 4 stars.

I think I have a rough idea what is going on in this picture, but it nothing like the book.
Nerd time over talking about what female characters in a fantasy series look like).
If I was a fantasy reader I think I might not like this book.
Fantasy implies that there is something beyond one's own life going on, a level of wish fulfillment or something like that happening in the book on the readers part.
The continuing saga of the Black Company, a group of mercenaries who will have been hired by The Lady, an undead ruler whose evil is possibly preferential to that of her trapped-in-his-grave husband, The Dominator.Shadows Linger explores the everyday evil of human existence, through the person of Shed Marron, an innkeeper in a remote city where the Company finds itself stationed.
Shed ends up in debt to a money-lender and embarks on a dark side-business to dig himself out of the hole.In many ways, it is by following the story of every-man, Shed, that this novel shines.
This is the way that good people end up doing despicable things.
A buddy read with BBB and loving it!*** 4 ***A different type of storytelling and a different type of story.
And I am talking about the good type of different, not the " ooo my, this was very uncomfortable and chaotic " type.
Actually, I think this story was easier going since we had some background and were comfortable in this world full of darkness and dissolution.
I couldn't put it down and have barely started cooking for Thanksgiving tomorrow!!!
Haven't slept in couple of days either, so relatives, beware!!!Thanks to my buddies at BBB for getting me started on the series and sharing the experience!!!
Mientras que no tenga nada nuevo de Joe Abercrombie me apunto al Sr. Cook como "fantasía de fondo de armario" en lo que a esta saga, la Compañía Negra, se refiere.Hay que tener en cuenta que Cook sacó su libro en el 1984 y Abercrombie en el 2006.
Prefiero al segundo, es mas bestia, pero los hombres de la Compañía Negra no están nada mal para haber salido más de 20 años antes a la palestra.En resumen ; que este es un segundo libro pero que si os gusta Mr. Joe le deis una oportunidad a Mr. Cook.
"I guess we were a rough-looking lot.
Those who did not show tough looked nasty."Oh yes, they are a bad bunch, but underneath al that manly roughness are the skill and willpower to do whatever they have to do to survive.
The book is split between following Croaker and the Company and a new person, Shed, where we can see quiet a lot of development.
Lots happen so if you like the first one, there is absolutely no reason not to continue.
بين ٤ و ٤/٥. خيلي بهتر از كتاب قبل بود و داستان جذابيت خيلي خوبي پيدا كرده بود.
چقدر طولش دادم!وای چقدر خوب بودبهخصوص 130 صفحه آخر بود که باعث شد 5 بدم بهش.شخصیتپردازی خیلی خیلی بهتر شده بودالبته مرگ چنتا از شخصیتا واقعا بد ناراحتم کرد...ولی بالاخره تصمیم گرفتم که طرف کی باشم!مسلما بانو، حتی اگر گروهان سیاه ضدم باشن!اگر کسی خونده کتابارو، پس لطفا:CHOOSE YOUR SIDE!
چقدر طولش دادم!وای چقدر خوب بودبه‌خصوص 130 صفحه آخر بود که باعث شد 5 بدم بهش.شخصیت‌پردازی خیلی خیلی بهتر شده بودالبته مرگ چنتا از شخصیتا واقعا بد ناراحتم کرد...ولی بالاخره تصمیم گرفتم که طرف کی باشم!مسلما بانو، حتی اگر گروهان سیاه ضدم باشن!اگر کسی خونده کتابارو، پس لطفا:CHOOSE YOUR SIDE!
I'm a huge fan of Glen Cook's unique writing style. I enjoyed Shadows Linger more than the first book(which I loved). The characters in this series are so realistic and I just loved spending time with the Company. Marron Shed was a stand out in this book and hats off to Glen Cook for his character development. The greater threats are explored, more secrets revealed, The Company stumbles but doesn't fall...and the story moves on.

5.5 stars. The second chronicle of the Black Company. I absolutely love these books. My only complaint is that I wish the books were longer so that the author could provide mre detail to the incredible world he has created. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!!!!
4-1/2 stars that may get rounded up. Review to come once I figure out what to say without spoilers. Short form, this book was terrific, carrying the big plot arc forward while being scary and gripping and completely absorbing. And it made me cry at the end. It's powerful stuff.
This really picks up from where the first book left off...The company sees a lot more variety of action as they come up against the Lady's husband, the Dominator...who is SUPPOSED to be buried very deep....Frankly, the first book and its setting up of the characters and the world was a little confusing and hard to read, whereas I practically ate this one up...100% improvement!
The premise sounded interesting, and when I saw that it was at least in part used as source material for Exalted, I figured I’d check it out.The Chronicles of the Black Company (of which Shadows Linger is the second novel) is a series of fantasy novels that follows the activities of a mercenary group called…the Black Company.
The first is told by Croaker, the chronicler of the Black Company, and primary narrator of the novels.
Shadows Linger takes place mostly in the city of Juniper, which is apparently, very far to the north of the Empire that the Company works for.
من به شخصه توی این جلد بخش های دانای کل رو ترجیح میدادم البته شاید ترجیحش به خاطر تنبلی هم بود.
قسمت دانای کل لحنی راحت تر و بیشتر هم مکالمه های شخصیتای داستان بود در صورتی که وقتی طبیب داستان رو میگه بیشتر توصیف میکنه و از افکارش میگه جوری که گاهی دوست دارم گلوش رو بگیرم و خفه اش کنم!این کتاب چندین مرگ داشت که یکیش در عین بهت انگیز بودن مسخره بود.
نمیدونستم برای اون بدبخت ناراحت باشم یا بخندم!در کل دوست دارم دست این نویسنده رو به خاطر عمق تفکرش ببوسم!
تفکر و نوع بیانش رو واقعاً دوست دارم!حیفه که این کتاب اونقدر که باید خونده نشده!
DEAD
Now this one was a fun ride!
The Company is split for most of the time - in terms of location, not loyalties.
There's a scene in the beginning when you fear things get sour between them, but One-Eye's statement towards the end is telling:"If that bastard Goblin got himself killed, I'll wring his neck."A summary of what it means to be part of The Company, in Croaker's words:"The lot of the mercenary does not require much moralizing or making of moral decisions.
Then anything he does, or witnesses, becomes of minor significance as long as its brunt is borne outside the Company."They do, however, end up taking a moral stand.With this being said, the MC here is Shed.
Uma história intensa, cheia de reviravoltas.
Cook sabe prender a atenção do leitor, com poucas descrições e foco na história e nos personagens.
A concisão do estilo dá ritmo à história e aqui e ali deixa escapar pérolas de sarcasmos, ironia e até uma ou outra consideração filosófica.
O primeiro livro da série achei um pouco confuso, a história parece um roteiro de videogame, mas mesmo assim me cativou, por algum motivo.
Nesta sequência, com um plot mais criativo e bem melhor estruturado, a história da Companhia Negra ganha novas dimensões e justifica pra mim o interesse provocado pelo primeiro capítulo da série.
