https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129876.The_Ramayana
I didn't know about Indian mythology at all, because in Europe we read only Greek Mythology at school, but what I've always like about India is that in this country, the animals seem to have equal rights as Man. So, when I picked up this book in the bookstore, and read the back cover, I was immediately drawn to the efforts of the monkeys, in collaboration with man, to save a kidnapped woman.And I was touched by the book's deep wisdom and its keen insight into the human nature, coupled with a gripping narrative of action, in high tension.
This is one of those really entertaining but makes you want to smack someone. But at least the gods in this version agree with me.It is nice to know that the Bible isn’t the only work that screws women over.The amount of time that men in this epic, who keep telling you they are powerful dudes, blame women for everything is just maddening. Even Sita who couldn’t be raped because Ravena can’t force her has to prove her virtue. Hello. Yeah, yeah, I know it was before feminism. I get it. But I am a
But at least the gods in this version agree with me.It is nice to know that the Bible isn’t the only work that screws women over.The amount of time that men in this epic, who keep telling you they are powerful dudes, blame women for everything is just maddening.
Even Sita who couldn’t be raped because Ravena can’t force her has to prove her virtue.
I know that critics, both Western and Eastern have problems with it.
And to be frank, do you really think modern women were the first to ask these questions or notice these problems?
I couldn't belief that I actually enjoyed it despite being far removed from the cultural context of the work!
The moment I ascertained that I was required to read The Ramayana for my World Literature Module in university, I felt frightened and intimidated.
I had a strong feeling that I would not enjoy it because of its unfamiliarity and because of the fact that I had to step out of my comfort zone and read a book involving wars.
I must say that I actually appreciate the work and that world literature is not as scary as I've thought!
his style is flowing and the story is running and rich. i read few versions and i find this one the most satisfying. maybe because is short.
Even to a skeptic like me, there is something soul stirring in the Ramayana .. mystic even!
It is a question of honor and so the king agrees.Rama is cast out into the forest, his wife is stolen by a demon, which leads to a great campaign to rescue her and destroy the demon hordes in the forests and frontiers of the world.Entertaining, great descriptions, and interesting characters make this story pretty easy to get through, even for a westerner.
The sexism in the story is pretty thick, but no more than the sexism from our own ancient and medieval western stories.I had serious problems with one particular part of the story: Rama's rejection of Sita once she is rescued from the demons.
I guess the whole world has heard of blue Rama and his beautiful Sita, but now that I'm actually reading the story, I find their love not as amazing as I thought.
In the movie A Little Princess, Sarah was obsessed with the story, and I liked the scenes she imagined.Rama is not as amazing and dashing as all that, he even cheats on Sita and treats her badly.
The Ramayana was an amazing book to read.
Ravana is an evil monster that is ruler of all evil wanting to destroy Rama.
The Ramayana is story of Rama journey to destroy Ravana and along the way; he makes friends with other people that would help with his journey.
The theme of the book is good vs.
evil, friendship and trust at the end good has its victory.
This book is amazing and I would recommend people to read it and its fun to because you get to learn about other people’s culture and you would find it different in particular reason.
This review can also be found on Snow White Hates Apples.After I’ve finished reading this book, I’m certain that mythology, fairy tales, folklore, legends and such all share common notions no matter which culture they are part of. In  The Ramayana: A Shortened Modern Prose Version of the Indian Epic  (which I will shorten to ‘ The Ramayana ' from here onward), is a tale both familiar and unknown to me. Although the Indians are ‘one of the three main races’ in my country, I’ve never really ventur
This review can also be found on Snow White Hates Apples.After I’ve finished reading this book, I’m certain that mythology, fairy tales, folklore, legends and such all share common notions no matter which culture they are part of.
The Ramayana: A Shortened Modern Prose Version of the Indian Epic
I do like that it made reading this text easier, but I also think that the words used are mostly common and somehow, that just took away the beauty and complexity of this story.
I’ve read a few versions of translations for 
Narayan also doesn't like the "second ending" of the Valmiki version, so in an epilogue we are told it exists, told about the doubts of authenticity, but not given anything but the slightest synopsis.In other places the flavor of the ancient originals is given by lines like, "At this point Kamban begins to describe the preparations for the wedding of Rama and Sita.
In many parts of this adaptation, Narayan accomplishes his goal of bringing the rich imagery and allegory of Kamban's Ramayana to an English-speaking audience.
Unfortunately, in too much of it, Narayan's prose has the narrative force of a Wikipedia synopsis.
Throughout the book, Narayan takes pains to inform us of the brilliance of Kamban's original, but we are often left with at most only a tantalizingly small glimpse of what the original might have held.
Any work of translation must confront the fact that much of the richness of the original will be lost.
K. NarayanPenguin, 1972157 pagesEpic; Mythic5/5 starsSource: Bought and read for schoolSummary: The epic of Rama, the god Vishnu in human form, and his quest to rid the world of Ravana.I loved this book.
I thought that I was vaguely familiar with the story as I read it and I think I may have seen parts of a filmed adaptation at some point.
However as a book, I think it works in the shortened version.It moves along fairly quickly but with side stories and diversions as might be expected in an epic.
Narayan’s translation of The Ramayana is an entertaining and interesting read, especially in regards to the gender roles within the story. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in classic Indian mythology, although it is worth looking into other translations of The Ramayana as well since Narayan has omitted and/or simplified a few important scenes.
An incredibly pleasant read, with some interesting additional apologetic work by the translator that adds value to the criticism and understanding of the "original" text (such as Sita's immolation and his murder of Vali).
This version is barebones, but with enough meat to really provide a great framework for diving into a deeper, lengthier version of the text, provided an English reader such as myself can find one.
If anything, this text reminds me how absurdly complex and rich this culture is and, compared to staples of Western civilization, it is humbling to see an ocean when all you have seen before are ponds and lakes.
A little too late for Diwali, but.Really enjoyed this. I would like to read it in verse eventually.
I think this because the stories have a bad guy, that was a good guy before, but they had a reason to do what they did, for example in Ahalya’s story, Indra can be taken as the bad guy since he cloned himself to make love to Ahalya, and he was cursed with female parts, and then with a thousand eyes.
on page 162 Rama surprised me and I felt so bad when he told Sita that he freed her to do whatever she wanted.
Narayan's The Ramayana is a nice modern prose retelling of the longer Indian epic originally written in verse.
It serves as a wonderful introduction to Indian culture, values, mythology, and spirituality.
I think Narayan's version of The Ramayana would be studied most profitably in a comparative context, alongside other mythological epics from around the world.
What great insight into the differences among world cultures as well as their similarities in the form of archetypes it would surely offer.
I am currently reading several books to prepare for a trip to India. This is a prose retelling (in English) of the Ramayana by great Indian Author R.K. Narayan. It is also considerably condensed from the original epic poem. I thought Narayan did a great job of making the story very readable and understandable. Images of and references to Rama and Sita are plentiful in Indian culture, so it is great to now understand their story and its implications.
A shortened version adapted from Kamban's Tamil version of the Ramayana. From the excerpts of Kamban's Tamil that I have read and heard, this translation-- indeed perhaps any translation-- would fall woefully short. That said, this was a wonderful translation-- and short enough to finish over morning coffee!
A beautiful translation of 'The Ramayana', with a wonderful narrative contextualising the aspects of the story edited out. It is an abridged version, but Narayan does a lovely job bridging the gaps that exist in the story by telling you what you missed--not only in terms of plot, but also in terms of literary style.
Privilege, honor reading & reliving this epic!Simple precise writing by RKN. I could not have expected anything more.Cheers,
I'm glad I'm done reading this for Ancient Civ!!!
Mr. Bharat, another old worshipper of Mr. Ram, tried his level-best to tell him that graduate school was pointless if one could get a good-paying job after undergrad only but Mr. Ram didn’t listen.
Afterwards, he can come and get the same job in the department which Mr. Bharat was happy to pass on to him anyway.
Finally, with the aid of a disgruntled ex-group member (Vibhishan) from Dr. Ravan’s lab, his monkey friends, as well as bureaucrats from heaven, Dr. Ram was able to retrieve his precious sample Sita.
Back in Ayodhya, all the worshippers, Mr. Bharat, and even Prof.
I do not know the Ramayana.
They may be two great flavors, but they don't go great together.Please note that the low rating applies solely to this version; I'm not passing judgment on the original poem, which I would still like to read.
I thought an abridged prose version would be a good introduction.
That might be true—of another book.Here, Narayan retells gigantic, complex events in an overly simple, repetitive style, as if he's explaining it to a very small child.
In his introduction, he mentions that everyone in India knows the story.
Umm—it made me want to read the original instead?
The battle between good and evil, a common theme to epic poetry is found within The Ramayana as well.
Rama vs Ravana.Ravana - 10 headed god who lusts for Rama's wife and for everyone to bow to him.
Possessing great abilities gifted by the gods is unable to defeat a "mere human"Rama - Vishnu reincarnated as a human, with his bow and arrow, defeats Ravana's army with his trusty army.
Hanaman, the monkey God is also present to defeat evil.
(thinking about Sam Harris mention of Hanaman in a debate about religion, "If you happen to be worshiping the monkey god Hanaman, you are doomed" lol.
This was an entertaining story that gave great insight into a mythical, magical, and colorful culture of ancient India.
This is the story of King Rama, his wife Sita, and their adventures and conquests.
The writing is very monotone, the point and style of the writing is to tell the story and that comes across, depending on your preferences this can be good or bad.
The flow of the story is very good it keeps readers interested without being confusing.
Overall, this story is amazing due to cultural insight and an entrancing plot.
Very well done translation of a unique and captivating story. While the tale and its characters are clearly very foreign to a western audience, Narayan makes the story accesible to western readers. I would recommend to all who want to read something different or would like a taste of Indian literature.
Narayan skips the lengthy ornate descriptions of the original, resulting in a strange and fun event-packed tale of blue-Indian-superman Ramayana. Refreshingly strange for my western taste, and hilarious in its hyperbole. A enjoyable readable romp that seems to open a little window on Indian morality.
One of the greatest hero of India and the most loved and worshipped. While reading the book, i had a nostalgic feeling of my childhood, I had seen the television series when i was in school, i still remember watching it in my neighbors house as we didn't have tv that time. My neighbor's house used to be full of neighbors.
I really loved this! it reminded me a lot of traditional Greek mythology. the writing in this particular translation was wonderful and enjoyable. The story itself was vibrant and lively. I hope one day I can at least read parts of the whole Ramayana because I loved this story so much.
