https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/234327.Thus_Was_Adonis_Murdered
Mostly, though, it bothers me when I feel like you the author actually had nothing to say, but just picked out some random things, had the sleuth notice them, and then brought those things around in the end to be randomly the solution.
Don’t worry, this book is mostly about cute boys and the silly antics of crime-solving lawyers and funny Shakespeare jokes, but the art law is super interesting and absolutely correct, if you’re into that kind of thing.
I have passed to another friend the copy that Elizabeth passed on to me, but I’m pretty positive I will read this book again someday, if only to remember all the funny Shakespeare stuff.
A series of British mysteries, starring a brilliant but sometimes hapless collection of young barristers and an Oxford tutor who is either remarkably clever or remarkably nosy, depending on whom you ask.What a delight.
Women who pursue people they want to fuck, and then fuck them to the delight of all involved, and then walk away with no shame or regret – can you imagine?
And then at the end, after all the misadventure and assorted amorous shenanigans that don’t make people slutty or cheap or stupid, each of these books turns around and delivers a clever little solution.
In this installment, one member of their group, Julia, is accused of murder while traveling abroad, and it's primarily through her letters home that Hilary and the gang analyze the clues in order to prove Julia's innocence and identify the culprit.One of the book's largest delights, for me, was the very arch, very stylized prose.
I wouldn't have thought I'd have liked the epistolary angle to the mystery, but it turned out to be another of the book's assets: we get Hilary's first-person POV and the comments of the peanut gallery the rest of Julia's friends in addition to Julia's first-person POV in the letters, and it's a structure that works really well.From a gender, sex, and sexuality standpoint, this book was refreshingly awesome.
Frequently removed from the action and enjoying the role of a parental figure to her group of young barristers, professor Tamar acts as the main detective and confidently gathers her intelligence via a series of beautifully written letters and succinct telexes (this is written in 1981) sent back and forth between England and Italy.To briefly intrude on this review, I have to say that this book for those of a certain age group will bring to the forefront a certain nostalgia we experienced in our days: the sad memory of receiving a letter via post, examining the stamp, the writing front and back, the relishment at guessing at its contents, and carefully opening it to its pages written in long hand, the cursive writing as much a clue to the personage writing it as my acquaintance of them in person.
Caudwell's four mysteries are so distinctive in voice and mood, the best word I can think of to describe them is "stylized." It's the sort of thing some readers adore and others probably hate (although it's hard for me to wrap my mind around that).
Much of the action is told through letters, cables, narrations within letters within cables, etc."Adonis" is the first of the four books (Caudwell died young) and in my opinion the best, with the fourth book next in quality.
The stories have the same main characters and setting: an office ("chambers") of brilliant young barristers who work in England's Chancery Court.
The story is told through a series of letters from the woman to them amidst much commentary and speculation from the co-worker group.
It seemed very pompous and annoying for a book set in the 1980s and I kept thinking I was in the wrong era.
Their commentary and speculation was an interesting way to tell the story but also fell flat at the same time (mostly I think because of the language and run on sentences).
As for the mystery itself -- it was interesting and certainly had a dramatic reveal.
This is probably the most charming murder mystery that I’ve ever read and it was great fun from start to finish.
I loved the format: although the murder takes place in Venice, the point of view is always that of barristers in London.
The actual narrator is a Professor who formerly taught them, but she remains largely enigmatic, allowing the focus to rest on the absurdities of Julia and her colleagues.
Upon hearing that she’s being accused of murder, her colleagues cannot believe that her physical co-ordination could possibly be sufficient for such an act.
Indeed, I almost felt that the murder was superfluous to the narrative.
I mean, Jenny didn't like them, but whatev!Excerpt:"The procedure for taking advantage of Italian waiters--equally applicable, so far as I am aware, in other areas of the Mediterranean--does not merit any long exposition.
Waiters, generally speaking, seem not to mind being taken advantage of."It is to be remembered, however, that they are an overworked and exploited profession, who have to spend much of their energies running to and from carrying drinks and so on, so that the duration of the pleasure given is not always commensurate to the enthusiasm with which it is offered.
The writing style was very difficult at first. Caudwell is way too wordy with run on sentences in which I lost track, at first. Then, I either got used to her style or so absorbed in the characters and the story that I go over my irritation and really enjoyed the book. I laughed out loud at the tongue-in-cheek, very British wit with which she wrote. The solution was a bit convoluted and required a re-read to get it. All in all, an enjoyable book.
This was delightful! A murder mystery involving a bunch of young English lawyers, narrated by their pretentious and socially obtuse former professor at Oxford. Full of witty banter, hilarity, and swapped gender roles. It's kind of like what I imagine would have happened if Oscar Wilde had rewritten Pale Fire as a charming and hilarious murder mystery.
I adore this series, absolutely unreservedly. Love all the characters, the witty acerbic writing - just perfection.
I just really could not get into this series of books, as much as I wanted to like them. There are many, many people who have read them and loved them, but I just didn't. The writing quite honestly gave me a headache and was so heavy handed, I could barely understand what the mystery was supposed to be. That doesn't mean they aren't worth reading, just not for everybody. I do love the cover art on them though, being a big Edward Gorey fan is what induced me to pick up this book in the first place.
Actually this was a DNF for me.
I'm not sure why, I liked the premise and the characters mostly seemed okay.
I think it might have been the language.
it was very formal and very stilted my my inner ear.
I also was easily confused when the reading of Julia's letters were happening.
Someone would read a section, people listening would interrupt and comment and then back to the letters.
Maybe it was that I didn't have enough long periods of time to read more than a few pages at a time.
Either way, I finally gave up because it wasn't holding my attention.
One of the most thoroughly delightful murder mysteries I've ever read! Oxford Don solves mysteries on behalf of her former students, now barristers. The majority of the case is conducted from abroad, via letters and the occasional telephone call. The voices are perfect, Hilary Tamar's most of all. I almost knocked a star off for Tragic Gay Passion troping, but in the end I couldn't bring myself to do it-- just be warned that that's a thing.
A very witty mystery indeed! Though I occasionally found this book slow going, I mostly enjoyed the moderately ridiculous world of barrister Julia Larwood and her friends, other fairly new barristers. If you enjoy dry wit, particularly dry wit employed in the depiction of all manner of wildly ridiculous escapades, you really should read this book.
Erudite and witty with a distinctive style which I found refreshing and entertaining.
The only way of ensuring that he fell into a canal would be to push him into it: unless this could be done with extraordinary discretion, the enterprise might well prove self-defeating."dar herojės logikos apie tai, ar su jos simpatijos objektu atvykęs kitas vyriškis (gal jo bernas, gal ne - herojė nežino) turi pagrindo pavydėti:"I had already established, as you know, that it was logically impossible for Kenneth to be distressed by anything that might occur between Ned and myself; but Kenneth, being an artist, has perhaps not studied logic and is unaware of the impossibility."Labai graži formuluotė apie vedybas, tikiuosi ,rasiu progą panaudoti:"Julia honey,' she said, somewhere around the second grappa, 'do you think that marriage can be a valid interpersonal relationship in a life context?'"Apie Otelą (ir karininkus):"You see, the way Julia saw it was that a chap who'd spent all his life in the army was just the sort of chap to get a bee in his bonnet about pure womanhood and so on, because he wouldn't get the chance to find out that women were more or less like anyone else and he'd start getting all idealistic about them.
From the letters written by Julia that give us a firm idea of her intellectually sound but common sense starved self as well as the background for the murder to the barristers' shameless pumping of art aficionado Benjamin Dobble to Cantrip's interview with Major Linnaker, a shady art and antiques dealer, there are delights all along the way.I really must share this tidbit from Cantrip (about the interview):Was it really only two hours?
Very appealing, fun, and interesting.Back in 2011 when I read The Shortest Way to Hades, I made mention of the fact that nowhere in the story do we learn whether Hilary Tamar be male or female (and that I didn't really notice this until John at Pretty Sinister Books pointed it out).
Any book by Sarah Caudwell is great. She had a limited number of her mysteries published before she died. Well told, with a dry, British humor twist. Highly recommend.
It also helps that no one even bats an eyelid over those other characters being straight, gay or bi - and pursuing casual sex as they wish - therefore if/when Tamar ever falls in love or feels a carnal urge during other novels, the scene is set for his/her sexual biology and gender identity not to matter in the slightest.I am left impressed and intrigued that Caudwell has chosen to write the character thus, and I wonder why this sort of thing isn't done more often...
An interesting book, leisurely in tone, and very English in its characters and setting - with intriguing questions posed around issues of gender.
The writing is stylized to look like something you’d see in a Regency or Victorian novel, which seems a bit incongruous for a contemporary story published in 1981, but I thoroughly enjoyed it.A group of young London barristers are concerned about their friend Julia, who has gone on holiday to Venice, alone.
Apparently Julia is one of those people who trips over things and loses her way and forgets to pay her income taxes, so it’s with some trepidation that the barristers congregate to read Julia’s letters home.Julia writes unabashedly about her carnal goal for the holiday, and almost immediately spots a potential romantic partner in her tour group: young man with an admirable profile.
I just did not find the humor funny and the book especially in the middle was just too dragging and boring.
I had to encourage myself by thinking that I might get some surprise in the end part when the killer is revealed.
However, the surprise ending was just not enough for me to rate this even with two stars (so-so).
I just don’t like this book and did not learn anything from it.
Maybe I should have first tried one of the masters - Agatha Christie with her famous The Murder of Roger Ackroyd.
Yes, maybe in September this year.
I FINALLY got my hands on this.
*\o/* And it absolutely lived up to expectations.
**\o/** Caudwell's novels are unquestionably the BEST when it comes to character and narratorial voice; she doesn't quite have Hilary down in this first of the series, but everyone else is so much themselves that I can overlook that.
I love the sex-positivism, I love the literary flourishes, I love the devotion to food, I love the implicit feminism.
I love Timothy, whom I do not recall from the other Tamar novels, and I love Graziella, and I love Cantrip's hilarious family, and this was totally worth the four dollars second-hand.
Such an old favorite. I love this series so much I keep giving away the first book to people to encourage them to read it. At some point I lost track of who had it so I bought myself a new one on amazon and it arrived today. I can't wait to slip back into it.The "mystery" is not really the draw of the book, it's the wonderful, wonderful characters. I enjoy reading about them so much and they make me laugh out loud sometimes. British humor at its best!
Unbelievably charming writing; I could read this sort of thing all day and night. I imagine the quality of writing on display here would appeal only to a person of a certain level of erudition, which is a real shame; I'd prefer it get around rather more than it currently does.I emphatically and desperately recommend this book for anyone whose heart is warmed by a bit of dry British humo(u)r.
First (and best) of Sarah Cauldwell's deliciously sarcastic books about a group of young lawyers in Lincoln's Inn, as told by Hilary Tamar, professor of medieval contract law. Sadly, Sarah Cauldwell died after writing only 4 books so savor them as you read! Makes me laugh
P.G.Wodehouse meets Perry Mason in this cleverly written mystery about nothing much in particular. Some passages are outright laugh-out-loud hilarious. Lovers of dry British humor will enjoy this book a lot, I know I did!
The first paragraph of this book might be my favorite paragraph ever written. In a mystery. After 1945. LOVE her writing.
The epistolary style bugged me at the beginning, but I enjoyed the dry humour and the rather 'ghastly; characters. Worth trying her next...
what a pleasure to read
