https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50203.A_Haunted_House_and_Other_Short_Stories
“Safe, safe, safe,” the heart of the house beats proudly. “Long years—” he sighs. “Again you found me.” “Here,” she murmurs, “sleeping; in the garden reading; laughing, rolling apples in the loft. Here we left our treasure—” Stooping, their light lifts the lids upon my eyes. “Safe! safe! safe!” the pulse of the house beats wildly. Waking, I cry “Oh, is this your buried treasure? The light in the heart.”~The Haunted House  "Come, dream with me," beckons Virginia Woolf in this collection of eight
“Safe, safe, safe,” the heart of the house beats proudly.
Thus, waking from a midnight dream of horror, one hastily turns on the light and lies quiescent, worshipping the chest of drawers, worshipping solidity, worshipping reality, worshipping the impersonal world which is a proof of some existence other than ours.”~Monday or Tuesday
This "worshipping the impersonal world which is a proof of some existence other than ours" is the theme at the heart of this collection.
In Kew Gardens, surely one of the finest in the collection, she juxtaposes the order of natural world with the disorder of human emotion.
So fucking beautiful and dark it makes my soul ache.My Favorites:Solid Objects:"his eyes lost their intensity, or rather the background of thought and experience which gives an inscrutable depth to the eyes of grown people disappeared, leaving only the clear transparent surface, expressing nothing but wonder, which the eyes of young children display."Kew Gardens:"and in the drone of the aeroplane the voice of the summer sky murmured its fierce soul.
It seemed as if all gross and heavy bodies had sunk down in the heat motionless and lay huddled upon the ground, but their voices went wavering from them as if they were flames lolling from the thick waxen bodies of candles.
چرا که شخصیت داستانی، دیگر پیر و ناتوان شده و با نماد آیینه به معنای هویت هر بار به دوران جوانی, عاشقی و پیری فرتوت بودن خود می نگرد.
در دیدگاهی فمینیستی افراطی در پایان عمر و کهندسالی متوجه آن می شود که هرگز ازدواج نکرده و با حسرت به گذشته، جوانی و میان سالی می نگرد.
که حالا نامه های عاشقی را جمع آوری می کرده و در کهن سالی تازه متوجه شده که هیچ ازدواجی نکرده است...داستان از تکنیک سیال ذهن و ذهن خود پیرزن با فلاش بک و تغییر زاویه دید روایت می شود و...
‘Quietly,’ they said, ‘or we shall wake them.’...................................................‘Safe, safe, safe,’ the heart of the house beats proudly.
‘Again you found me.’ ‘Here,’ she murmurs, ‘sleeping; in the garden reading; laughing, rolling apples in the loft.
Here we left our treasure-Stooping, their light lifts the lid upon my eyes.
Waking, I cry ‘Oh, is this your buried treasure?
The light in the heart.’When I bought this book many years ago I was disappointed because I expected a 'proper' ghost story.
But re-reading it now I realise that it really is a proper ghost story, and a heart-rending one at that.
The reader will also find short compositions which begin to unravel some of her ideas for new novels, unwritten novels.
Furthermore, a good handful of these short stories quite gently brush against characters from a now complete, established and well-known novel - Mrs. Dalloway and friends are indeed featured.There are three pieces published in this book that most impress me: A Haunted House; Monday or Tuesday; Kew Gardens; The New Dress; and above all others, the story that made me ache more so than the pieces I've listed here is, without hesitation, The Lady in the Looking-Glass.I own a lovely Hogarth Press red cloth-bound first edition of this book.
I'm not sure the short story format really suits Virginia's style. These aren't so much compact, little stories as they are iridescent fragments of stories. I get the impression she was more interested in questions than she was in answers and only ever gave a concluding thought because she had to. Her prose here is exquisite, as always.(If anyone can explain The Shooting Party or The Searchlight to me, please do!)
Une bonne introduction à Virginia Woolf, ce recueil de nouvelles écrites tout au long de sa vie permet de découvrir ses différents univers et idées et leur évolution avec le temps. J'ai plus apprécié ses dernières nouvelles que celles écrites plus jeune, après l'âge de 35 ans je l'ai trouvée bien plus rebelle !
Wow, what a brilliant little collection of short stories.
I love Virginia Woolf, but sometimes you've got to steel yourself to wade through her novels, content in the knowledge you're only going to get about 80% of what's going on.
However in this slim volume you not only get perfect little morsels of Woolf's stream of consciousness style, and her contained explorations of her characters inner thoughts and reflections which are stimulated by outside actions, without having to wade through pages and pages of text, (not that you shouldn't read The Waves/To The Lighthouse et al, of course).But even better, you also get several vignettes from the party Clarissa Dalloway throws in her eponymous novel, filling in the spaces left at the end of the book.
Not all the stories are of equal quality (some, according to the intro, not quite finished sketches), but the writing and the observations (focus on minute particulars - the shade cast by a leaf more important in the moment than a war another world away) as well as the unwavering precedence given to highly sensitized individuals (and their relations with other highly sensitized individuals) are consistent and absolutely enthralling and inspiring.
این کتاب مجموعه داستان های کوتاه نویسنده رو شامل میشه که خیلی هاشون طرح داستان بودن تا خودِ داستان.. برای شروع کتاب خوبی نیست که از ویرجینیا وولف میشه خوند.. باید اول رفت سراغ رمان هاش..
ულამაზესი წიგნია
آیا گنج مدفون شما این است؟ نوری در دل....
3.25-3.5There were 2 out of the first 4 stories in the book that were confusing. The rest of the stories were fairly straight forward and comprehensible. My favorite story in the book was, " A New Dress". And, there weren't any scary stories, the title is misleading; the book is named after the first story, which is not spooky.
Reading this I had the feeling that Virginia Woolf was thinking completely outside the box. Can you believe that this book consists of unfinished stories?
His interest slackened” (132).from Together and Apart“But if one mayn’t be foolish at the age of forty in the presence of the sky, which makes the wisest imbecile-mere wisps of straw-she and Mr. Serle atoms, motes, standing there at Mrs. Dalloway’s window, and their lives, seen by moonlight, as long as an insect’s and no more important” (136).“Of all things, nothing is so strange as human intercourse, she thought, because of its changes, its extraordinary irrationality, her dislike being now nothing short of the most intense and rapturous love, but directly the word ‘love’ occurred to her, she rejected it, thinking again how obscure the mind was, with its very few words for all these astonishing perceptions, these alterations of pain and pleasure.
I really loved this story that carries a deep feeling of hope and ambition .It takes me to a fantasy world where the precious love exist between people ;where in reality it is hard to find that treasure that the ghostly couple eventually found in deep inside of each one of them.<3
Greetings from Praha. A lovely short-story by Virginia Woolf.
"The tears began, down in the back of her head to rise, as she looked at this picture of herself, and added the suffering of a lifetime (--) - life had passed over her like a wheel - life was not what it had seemed then --."Some of these short stories were absolutely beautiful, thought-provoking, still current today and very insightful.
And I swear in the middle it felt like I was reading the same short story over and over again because they were all just so similar for a while.Also, very important for anyone considering to read this collection:These can't be finished products.
یه مقدار برای من طول کشید خوندنش که بیشتر به خاطر ترجمهاش بود ؛ ویرجینیا وولف مورد علاقهی منه و عجیب نیست که اینهمه خوشم بیاد از آثارش؛ اما چندتا از داستانهایی که بیشتر دوست داشتم، با هم و جدا از هم، خطابه و انجمن بودند که خیلیهاشون هم طرحهایی هستند که از دل اونها رمانهای خانم وولف بوجود اومدند.
یه مقدار برای من طول کشید خوندنش که بیشتر به خاطر ترجمه‌اش بود ؛ ویرجینیا وولف مورد علاقه‌ی منه و عجیب نیست که اینهمه خوشم بیاد از آثارش؛ اما چندتا از داستانهایی که بیشتر دوست داشتم، با هم و جدا از هم، خطابه و انجمن بودند که خیلی‌هاشون هم طرح‌هایی هستند که از دل‌ اونها رمانهای خانم وولف بوجود اومدند.
These short stories, snapshots of certain experiences and emotions, are marvellous for people who prefer atmosphere to narrative. In my view nobody can create atmosphere and explore emotional states (moments of being) quite as well as Virginia Woolf. But that's just my view!
مثل شعر بود ، پر از حرف ، عميق و در عين حال نثري نوازشگر و بهاري
Interesting collection of work by Woolf.,
Stand outs for me are "Kew Gardens," "The Mark on the Wall," "The New Dress," "Solid Objects," "Moments of Being" (aka "Slater's Pins Have No Points"), and "A Summing Up."The first six stories were originally published four years before Mrs. Dalloway (1925), and the rest followed over the next few years.
But, as Woolf writes in "A Summing Up," the final story in the collection, "the soul...is by nature unmated, a widow bird." That seems to be the ultimate tragedy, spurring everyone to keep going to parties that can never fill the emptiness.The collection is not all gems, which can be great in the sense that it's great, for readers who are writers, to see that a master doesn't always write masterfully.
At least one of the shorts in this book was published in Harper's Bazaar!Because that only happened occasionally, I had to rate this only two stars.
If you are a writer, or if you enjoy public transportation, this book is definitely for you.Woolf achieves some amazing effects with her prose.
This 134 pages book is my introduction to Virginia Woolf.
The prose is quite lovely though it does read like a rambling, scattering thoughts at times.
I just am not that into Woolf’s writing, though this is wholly based on my experience with this collection of short stories.
The stories that hold my attention are:1.
The LegacyThe Legacy is my favourite above all others.
The final lines are the one that touches me the most.3“He had received his legacy.
She had stepped off the kerb to rejoin her lover.
She had stepped off the kerb to escape him.”
I'm not a Woolf fan actually, but these short stories were interesting bites of her style.
Generally I find her prose to be a bit obtuse and the stream of consciousness prose heavy.
I get a bit weary of overhearing the characters' meandering thoughts and their fragmented complexities; and her long sentences tend to leave me mentally breathless.
But one short story in this anthology, A Haunted House, was a lovely story about ghosts that I really enjoyed probably because it was more direct than her other works and short enough to "get it." And ghosts stories are especially interesting to me.
If you are interested in experiencing Virginia Woolf, her short stories are a good place to sample her prose.
آدمها نبايد در اتاقهايشان آينه آويزان كنند. همانطور كه نبايد دفترچههاي حساب پسانداز يا نامههايي را پيش چشم ديگران بگذارند كه جنايتي پنهان را افشا ميكنند. در آن بعدازظهر تابستان، نميتوانستي در آينهي قدي كه بر ديوار تالار آويخته بود نگاه نكني. همه چيز از سر تصادف بود. نه تنها ميتوانستي از ته كاناپهي اتاق پذيرايي، ميز مرمر مقابل را در آينهي ايتاليايي ببيني، وراي آن امتداد باغ را نيز ميديدي. تا جايي كه حاشيهي طلايي آينه زاويهاي ميساخت و تصوير را قطع ميكرد كوچه باغ سرسبزي را ميديدي كه در دو طرف، ميان
آدم‌ها نبايد در اتاق‌هايشان آينه آويزان كنند. همان‌طور كه نبايد دفترچه‌هاي حساب پس‌انداز يا نامه‌هايي را پيش چشم ديگران بگذارند كه جنايتي پنهان را افشا مي‌كنند. در آن بعدازظهر تابستان، نمي‌توانستي در آينه‌ي قدي كه بر ديوار تالار آويخته بود نگاه نكني. همه چيز از سر تصادف بود. نه تنها مي‌توانستي از ته كاناپه‌ي اتاق پذيرايي، ميز مرمر مقابل را در آينه‌ي ايتاليايي ببيني، وراي آن امتداد باغ را نيز مي‌ديدي. تا جايي كه حاشيه‌ي طلايي آينه زاويه‌اي مي‌ساخت و تصوير را قطع مي‌كرد كوچه باغ سرسبزي را مي‌ديدي كه در دو طرف، ميان گل‌هايي بلند، ادامه داشت
A collection of daydreams and impressions more than short "stories". The stream of consciousness method works infinitely better with longer genres in which the characters are studied in depth. Despite their scattered and sometimes digressive nature, many of the stories are enjoyable when read in a particular state of mind.My favorites were The New Dress, Lappin and Lappinova, The Mark on the Wall, and The Duchess and the Jeweller.
Snail tracks all over my windows today and I immediately thought of "Kew Gardens" and "The Mark on the Wall" and their snails and headed off to read those stories. Woolf is a lush stylist and it's easy to become lost in the language. The stories in the collection don't hold me as stories, but there's a world in the words.
Չափազանց խճճված էր ամեն ինչ ու չկողմնորոշված. հեղինակն անընդհատ տատանվում էր սյուժեի, սիմվոլիզմի, խառն ու անկապակցված մտքերի միջև ու էդպես էլ չորոշեց, թե որ մեկն ընտրի: Լավ պատմվածքներ հանդիպում էին ընթացքում, բայց ամբողջական չէր, մեկ ա: Ինչ-որ կարևոր բան էր ուզում տեղ հասցրած լինել, բայց շատ բարդ ճանապարհ էր ընտրել:
