https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60931.Kindred
Dana, a young African American woman who has just started a career as a writer in California, is suddenly and inexplicably yanked back in time to Maryland in 1815, where she must save a white boy named Rufus from drowning.This becomes only the first of many time traveling episodes for Dana.
Unfortunately, Rufus gets in a lot of trouble.Only moments pass in the modern world each time Dana is called away, but months or even years pass in the world of 1815.
“The ease. Us, the children… I never realized how easily people could be trained to accept slavery.” Butler is an author that constantly pops up on "Best sci-fi" and "Must-Read African American authors" lists and I can finally see why. This book may be my first by her, but it won't be my last. Kindred is a fascinating, horrific journey through a dark time in American history, combining eye-opening historical research with time travel.I suppose some modern readers will want to compare this story
Kindred is a fascinating, horrific journey through a dark time in American history, combining eye-opening historical research with time travel.I suppose some modern readers will want to compare this story to Outlander and there are some similarities - a woman trying to survive in the past, lots of blood-soaked history and horror, the harsh realities of being who you are in that time - but not only did this book come first, but it is far more distressing, more tied in with historical truth, and way more about surviving than it is about lusty scenes with a kilted hot dude.It's a really important "what if" book about race.
Butler shows us, though, that we as a nation and a people are bound, as kindred, between races and with a shared history.Back in the 90s I was working in Washington DC and I had the opportunity to meet a group of folks from Africa.
Dana, in some respects, becomes a symbol of a present-day African-American woman, both made stronger from her heritage, but also still bearing the wounds of past wrongs.Kindred also displays Butler’s amazing talents in storytelling, using dramatic irony expertly.
Butler visited my graduate university to give a lecture and book signing.
She actually spent several hours at the university, giving a public interview with one of the professors, then a short lecture to a large auditorium, then a book signing.
The interview was really fascinating, where Butler answered questions about how she worked to write Kindred and how she felt about the characters and how the result all turned out.
In the lecture, Butler talked mostly about how she writes, her writing style, her relationship with her fans, and the book she was currently writing, Fledgling.
Fledgling turned out to be the last book Butler wrote.
Octavia Butler amazes me.
She writes science fiction that is full of complicated ideas about race and sexuality that are completely readable.
I’ll innocently start reading, thinking only to get a solid start on the book, and suddenly discover I’m halfway through the story.
A recent read of Dawn inspired a number of recommendations for Butler and a buddy read of her book Kindred.
*************Full reviews at my blog: http://clsiewert.wordpress.com/2014/0...Why?
Because 1) gramazon can't have my reviews, 2) because I don't feel like being censored according to some twit's whims.
What came first, the badly written book or the reading slump?
I understand it is written by a woman of color in a time when it was an extraordinary accomplishment.
However, the above is not a relevant excuse for bad writing, cartoonish characters, poorly conceived plot and ridiculous dialogue.
We are in 1976 America, a young black woman is married with a white man and she suddenly starts to repeatedly go back in time in the antebellum South so she can save a child (and later young man) who proves to be her ancestor.
Firstly, the two pair accepted way to easy the time travelling part.
I knew the slave narrative might be harrowing (though it’s not overly graphic), but it has an average GR rating over four stars, features time-travel dilemmas, has a strong, intelligent, kind, and practical female protagonist, and gives thought-provoking insights into the complexity of US race relations in the 1800s and, to a lesser extent, the 1970s.
The power-play between master and slave can acquire aspects of Stockholm Syndrome.Although the story is told by Dana and she is the central character, at least as important is Rufus Weyland, son of the plantation owner.
This is only the second Octavia Butler book I have read and I already worship her.Kindred is about Dana, an African American woman who finds herself time travelling involuntarily to Maryland in the early nineteenth century.
Butler told In Motion Magazine in 2004 that a lot of the motivation behind her novel Kindred "came when I was in preschool, when my mother used to take me to work with her." Kindred follows Dana, a writer who travels back in time to the antebellum South and meets her ancestors, a white plantation owner and a Black slave.
A unique look at slave-era America thanks to a time-traveling twist.
Should be shelved with the classics.
Riveting from the first page and doesn’t let up.I’m always a fan of throwing in a little sci-fi, but here it really, really works.
Most novels on this subject tend to look at race relations from one time period.
Nothing wrong with that, but there was something wholly shocking and eye-opening about having these characters hop from a modern (1970s) lens to pre-Civil War society.This is my first Octavia E.
Butler novel but I’m already a huge fan.
Which of her books should I read next??
What follows is an unflinching and very important look at what slavery really was and how its mechanisms worked, without, for once (thank you thank you), an ounce of romanticization, but rather a complex but unforgiving portrayal of what many books would sell out as a Good Master (ugh).
The world needs to hear that as white people, we might not intend to comfort and sustain white supremacy, yet every time we buy into some romanticized version of slavery, we do.
What Kindred shows the reader is that no matter how easily we could feel sorry for said slaver - as Dana sometimes does - it doesn't change a thing.
Kindred is about a woman named Dana who gets transported/time-travels back to the past. She travels way back to the time when her great-great-grandparents were alive. This also happens to be a time of slavery. Dana is a black woman from the 1970’s who is married to a white man. Each time she is thrown into the past, she has to learn how to live and survive in this time while staying true to herself. I love books about time travel. One of my top favorite reads of all time (The Time Travelers Wife
Kindred is about a woman named Dana who gets transported/time-travels back to the past.
I love books about time travel.
This was very different from that book, but I still love that aspect of the story.
Dana time-travels back whenever her ancestor is in trouble.
It’s heartbreaking and painful to know that things like this really happened in the not so far back past.
I wish Kevin’s character would have been more developed but a part of me thinks he was there to show how much things had changed from the past to the present time.
This should be required reading in high school. I feel like if teachers used material like this, students would be a lot more engaged. It’s a fascinating blend of genres and such an interesting perspective with which she examines slavery. Very immersive and horrifying, but it really humanizes the past. Would highly recommend and am eager to read more from Butler’s backlist.
"I never realized how easily people could be trained to accept slavery." Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsThis was such an excellent book.Kindred tells the story of Dana Franklin, a black woman who is suddenly whisked back in time from 1976 to pre-Civil War Maryland in 1815. This novel is a beautifully elegant analysis of a not-so-beautiful period in American history. Using a prominent element of Science Fiction, Butler confronts the poisonous attitudes & double standards that are propagated by raci
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsThis was such an excellent book.Kindred tells the story of Dana Franklin, a black woman who is suddenly whisked back in time from 1976 to pre-Civil War Maryland in 1815.
This novel is a beautifully elegant analysis of a not-so-beautiful period in American history.
I enjoyed how this book didn't shy away from being brutally honest.
It doesn't seek to obscure the cruelty of the time period.
We all like to think that we wouldn't have participated in that atrocious behavior that has stained our history.
To discuss history is to remember it.
Keeping the conversation alive is vital.I would recommend this book to everyone.
And what better review for Valentine's Day than this time-travel novel in which a modern-day African-American woman is summoned by her slave-owning ancestor to rescue him at critical moments, and then must pimp her slave ancestress to the slave owner to ensure that she is born?Rating: 4.75* of fiveThe Publisher Says: The first science fiction written by a black woman, Kindred has become a cornerstone of black American literature.
It's not an easy, fluffy read, but it's amazing how Butler pulls no punches and still manages to keep the easy, smug path of good = noble, bad = horrible, from making her characters into masks capable of expressing only one emotion.
I wish we could read more authors like Octavia Butler, bell hooks, and Celeste Ng in our English classes instead of white men like Ernest Hemingway. I loved Kindred because it uses the science-fiction/fantasy genre to expose the cruelties and horrors of slavery and racism in an innovative way. Similar to what author Viet Thanh Nguyen writes in his book  Nothing Ever Dies , the United States's education system often informs us of issues like war and slavery through a sanitized, depoliticized lens
Dana is teleported back in time over and over again to protect Rufus from death, but each time she travels to the past, she encounters increasing amounts of danger and abuse that put her own life at risk for extinction.Butler creates a compelling cast of characters in Kindred.
In addition to imbuing Kindred with a fast-moving and surprising plot, Butler succeeds at showing and not telling the atrocities of slavery through Dana's travels backward and forward in time, in particular her forced journey to acclimate to plantation life in the nineteenth century.
Before Colson Whitehead's  The Underground Railroad, there was  Kindred, a grueling plunge into American slavery with a fantastic twist. One of the great time travel novels, right there with  Time and Again and  11/22/63. Aspects of the narrative might be too agonizing for the tender at heart, but I was with it all the way, from first sentence to last.
Although she is inexplicably whisked home, she is brought back to the past again shortly, where she realizes her task is to save the life of this white man who turns out to be her ancestor, over and over and over.
If you didn’t already know Octavia Butler was a genius, this book will convince you.— Casey Stepaniukfrom The Best Books We Read In September 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/10/03/riot-r...____________________I admit that I am usually too hesitant to pick up books about slavery.
She stares harsh truths and prejudices right in the face and she also creates a story you cannot stop reading.–Jessica Woodburyfrom The Best Books We Read In July 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/08/01/riot-r...
The ending was a bit underwhelming, but other than that I loved this book! In a story like this, getting a detailed explanation for WHY everything is happening is really important to me, and I definitely didn't get that closure. Open endings can be really great, but it wasn't what I wanted from this book.That being said, the journey was really enjoyable. Tough to read at times, but amazing nonetheless. I can't wait to read more of Butler's books!
Dana is pulled to Rufus anytime his life is in danger, which happens with surprising frequency.
Because of the mechanics of Dana's time traveling, each chapter begins and ends with a life-threatening situation.
Rufus is a few years older every time Dana returns to the plantation, so we get to watch him and the other characters as they grow up and their roles on the plantation evolve.
Strangely, they seemed to like [Rufus], hold him in contempt, and fear him all at the same time.
Like Rufus, he is more progressive than his forebearers but he's still a man of his time.
As she says, “The route to readers’ heads is through their guts and nerves, and that requires good storytelling, not just a good set of issues.” With that in mind, she wrote a novel that is not polemic, a danger for any book with a focus like this one.As I read "Kindred” I kept thinking this is a text that would be good for high school students.
However, you could also gloss over them if you so choose and just read a historical time travel science fiction novel.
Unfortunately for her, she's a black woman on a slave plantation, and she's stuck there for a disproportionately long time, sometimes even bringing her white husband back into the past with her and sometimes leaving him behind.
Theres a ton of time dilation, where moments pass in the modern world and years pass in the past, so it brings a real sense of horror to the story as her real life tumbles away into long absences with her husband.Of course, the real story isn't about Dana and Kevin, our moderns.
Despite writing a novel based on time travel, Butler never addresses the mechanics of this time travel or whether perhaps there is something about the protagonist, Dana Franklin, which triggers it.
Instead, Butler relies on establishing a bond between Dana and the boy she rescues the first time she is thrust into the past.
This does not detract at all from the emotional impact of the novel; Butler understands how to tell a compelling story.
Subsequent trips back into the past reveal the bond between the two and why Dana needs to save and protect him.
I love the fact that it used time travel, which I usually hate, but found tolerable here.
The book is easy to read, but perhaps that's where I start my critique.
There was a lot of opportunity for complexity, and the author sorta takes the easy way out in many instances.
Also, it feels a little dumbed down at times, and the author tries too hard to explain some things, and it comes off as contrived.
In other instances, though, she doesn't explain enough, like why Dana is traveling through time in the first place.
"I never realized how easily people could be trained to accept slavery"I read Kindred for the first time 12 years ago and I liked it but I didn't really spend a lot of time thinking about it.
October seemed like to perfect time to read a book about slavery.
I then read 3 slavery books The Klansman, Mandingo and Kindred.
This is the only Octavia Butler novel I've ever read but I'm planning on reading many more.Kindred is frightening because despite being a fictional book involving time travel, its rooted in American history.
Kindred is like no other book I've ever read.
In honor of Science Fiction and Fantasy Week, I am finally taking this book from my TBR queue and actually reading it.
I’m not a big fan of SF or fantasy, but a dear friend of mine has been touting this book for ages and it’s time for me to set aside the netgalley queue for a few days.
She doesn’t know why it’s happening but all of a sudden she’s being transported back to early 1800s Maryland Eastern Shore and her ancestors.
The book doesn’t bother dealing with why or how happens.
The other strength is comparing how Kevin and Dana see what’s happening around them, male vs.
Tying in the fact that I'd never had much interest in the field of science fiction until encountering a pinnacle of such within the last year (thank you, The Dispossessed), I was all set for appreciating the book, but not as much as I could have without such esteemed baselines.
The reality may not be nearly as psychologically indoctrinated to a brutal degree as 'Beloved', but the results of cold facts meeting human sensibilities are all there, and nowhere is there a simple line of black and white.What I particularly admired was the skillful twisting between past and present, ugly lines of common accordance that I can recognize today despite the novel's present having been set forty years ago.
I wish someone would make this into a movie.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThere are a lot of books that talk about the antebellum south, especially in romance novels where it is a popular setting, but few seem to capture the sheer unfairness of what it must have been like as a non-white person living in the South in the nineteenth century. I love Octavia Butler's science fiction, but KINDRED is a book that I purposely put off reading because I'd heard it was brutal. Good, but brutal, and utterly unflinching in th
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestThere are a lot of books that talk about the antebellum south, especially in romance novels where it is a popular setting, but few seem to capture the sheer unfairness of what it must have been like as a non-white person living in the South in the nineteenth century.
Some people have said that this reminded them of OUTLANDER, and that's true: the time-travel is just as sketchy and mysterious, and neither shrink back from cruelty and rape.What makes KINDRED such an interesting book is the complex way that Butler portrays slavery.
This is a story about people and how something like slavery takes away our humanity.So to sum up: read this book; it is great.
You can read this book with your brain on autopilot and still enjoy it, if you want to.On the surface, Kindred is a time-travel story about a young black woman (and sometimes her new, white husband, Kevin as well) being pulled back and forth in time between her home in 1976 America and the home of her antebellum ancestors in 1815.
4.5 stars.Wow. Everyone should read this book.
