https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34993.The_Sum_of_All_Fears
As ever, the central plot is great.
The characters are for the most part the same seven or eight core people, given different names and accents, and recycled at whim into a cast of thousands.
The thousands are too many to keep track of.
The detail of what they're doing is too monotonous and minuscule to do anything but slow the plot.
There's a good story buried in here, but it's splashed over so pointlessly large a canvas as to require almost forensic reconstruction to be able to see it.
Well this book tells you step by step, in layman's language, in exacting detail how you build a hydrogen bomb.
The court agreed and allowed the book to be published without any of the information being removed.The story starts during the 1967 Arab-Israeli war.
Israel had a jet fighter loaded with an atomic bomb ready to scramble, the atomic bomb was not armed, but the plane was scrambled to go engage a group of tanks threatening the air base with the atomic bomb still attached.
Communist scientists desperate for money sell detronium or "heavy water" to the palistinian terrorists allowing them to convert the atomic bomb to a hydrogen bomb.
The Sum of All Fears tries to tick all them boxes, but it also adds another - naivety.It is rare to see giddy optimism in Clancy's books, but he tried to wrap this one with an extra dose of sugar-coated 'We are the World' whereby good things are born from evil.
In real life, there ain't no happy resolutions after 123 minutes of hard, packed action.While it has more politics and less techno details than the previous books, it's still rather enjoyable, and it builds a nice story, where seemingly small things have a huge impact in the end.
Ben Affleck as Jack Ryan, bahahaha!Jack Ryan is the Mary Sueist of all the characters in the history of this world.
Sure, the stories stars to be a bit repetitive by now, but if you know what you are in for and look upon this as it's own work, it's brutally effective!
The Sum of all Fears, is just that - there are so many things converging that the sum is overwhelming.
The suspense and intensity does this story, even if it is a long and not always fast moving one.
Forget about the horrible movie adaption, the double mistake of casting Ben Affleck and not bothering with any fears but one didn't just make it inaptly named - it got to be a totally different story.
3.0 to 3.5 stars. I am a big fan of Tom Clancy, especially of his characters Jack Ryan and John Clark, both of whom figure prominently in this Middle East thriller centering on Nuclear proliferation. As good as Clancy is and as compelling as the story can be, this one felt just TOO LONG to rate any higher. With some strategic editing, this one could have been amazing. As it is, it is still very good.
This was the worst book I've ever read (there've been some other bad ones, but I had the common sense not to finish them).
At about 700 pages, it got so tedious that I thought I wouldn't finish; why was I wasting my time?
I soon lost interest in keeping up with them (not just the Russians).Several hundred pages, I'm sure, were spent describing the inner workings & ingredients of bombs, submarines, aircraft, facilities for making them & other dull stuff.
What was with that?'Why did she finish this book at all?' you ask.
This is a Tom Clancy novel where the movie is better than the book (like The Hunt for Red October).
The Sum of All Fears is so crammed full of everything Tom Clancy learned about building a two-stage nuclear weapon and about submarines and submarine warfare that it really detracts from the interesting plot, which could have been pulled together in half or one third of the space.
And if you haven't read earlier Clancy books you won't get some of the references to hero Jack Ryan's earlier adventures, or to why there is so much animosity between him and NSA advisor Elizabeth Elliot.
So see the movie on this one (reworked as a prequel before events in The Hunt for Red October).
I think I now know how to make a nuclear bomb...
The Sum of All Fears isn’t Tom Clancy’s best written book in the series, but as the title suggests, it is certainly the most frightening – especially when it was written during the collapse of the Soviet Union and the thaw of the Cold War. It is a sobering look at what can happen when dysfunctional Washington leadership is confronted with an unthinkable attack and how things can spiral out of control.
More than any of the Jack Ryan novels, the story of The Sum of All Fears sticks with me to this day.
now to make a bomb of my own...rest in peace, tomand oh, one thing i didn't notice when i first read this (this was way back in the '90s): black sunday was referenced three times, though in film form (and not the book) in all instances
con Jack Ryan, sempre lui, che salva il mondo da una crisi nucleare, e questa volta andando anche contro gli ordini del presidente americano.Romanzo, come tutti i lavori di Tom Clancy, molto descrittivo (anche troppo per la verità) sia per quanto riguarda le armi che per quanto concerne le nozioni di fisica e chimica...
Working through the Jack Ryan series, I thought this on would be slow based on the early going. Not so. Clancy once again delivers gripping action and parallel storylines that come together seamlessly. My eyes couldn’t read fast enough in the final chapters as the two Cold War superpowers edge to the brink of global thermonuclear war.
I'll probably continue on with the series (there are a few others I still want to read for some reason) at some point, but I figure I'll take a break until much later this year if not next year before doing so.I'd like to add in more thrillers (especially political thrillers) but so far I've not found the books to be nearly enjoyable as I recall the movies being, which is typically not the case for me at all.
Tom Clancy's books are like having sex for the first time: It starts out exciting, gets a little awkward in the middle as you have no idea what's going on and are waiting for something to happen; it becomes intense toward the end but it ends too quickly and you feel unsatisfied.**SPOILERS BELOW**All major conflicts in the book are too well-resolved.
And the USSR is a little too eager to back down and the terrorists are caught without a single shot fired.Let's also deal with Clancy's characters: there are no surprises--he lets you know right off the bat whether a character is good or bad.
Like most of his work, Clancy's "The Sum of All Fears" starts pretty uneventful.
As you can expect that doesn't go as planned.The biggest criticism I've seen/heard/read about "The Sum of All Fears" is how long it takes for any real action to takes place, but I think the book does a good job of lulling you into the same safe space that the characters are suppose to be in before punching everyone in the gut with an explosion of action and confusion for the last quarter of the story.
Very long, very detailed, and after a while, very repetitive.
If you stop after just a few of his books you'd probably give them 4 or 5 stars, but beyond that they start to grate.
I mean, Clancy spends hundreds of pages getting his details just right, the settings perfect etc., then he has Ryan dodging more bullets than James Bond!
I finally threw my hands up and surrendered when Ryan becomes President.
I can't remember what piece of crap that was in.I've given three stars as a compromise between my reactions when reading my first Clancy (brilliant) and last Clancy (doorstop).

Gelezen van 8-03-2013 tot 20-03-2013Weer een boek uit de 'Jack Ryan' serie geschreven door Tom Clancy. Op dit moment is er een vredespoging tussen de verschillende geloven, Amerika, Rusland en het Vaticaan. Maar zoals in alle boeken zijn er hier ook allerlei onverwachtse wendingen te verwachten.Voor de 2e keer gelezen van 12-2016 tot 08-01-2017
Clancy's gripping depiction of just how fragile the nature of leadership can be in the midst of crisis is shockingly frightening. When emotions run high and the ever-present voice of reason (who else but Jack Ryan) is ignored, Clancy masterfully paints his most intense piece yet.
long in some parts but loved interweaving story.
Re-read of this. RIP Tom Clancy. You are missed.
I'd echo the top review: "Thank God it's over." This was a long slog--it took me two years of off-and-on reading to finish.
Oh, the data dumps!
But it was still slow.And this book switched mid-page from one setting and cast of characters to another, with "scenes" often lasting only a single paragraph before switching back to some other group.
Awkward/choppy.The final few hundred pages picked up the pace.
It was fairly compelling, plausible, and disquieting in terms of U.S.-Russian relations and nuclear strategy.Students of the Cold War should read this but skimming is your friend.
My last Clancy, in which a terrorist nukes the Super Bowl. The 800 page book would've been half as large without the prerequisite exhaustive military hardware specifications for each weapon, vehicle, ship, and bullet introduced. Clancy even goes so far in the appendix to explain how he deliberately fudged the details of how a nuclear bomb works, so that terrorists won't glean anything from him. Oh puhleeze. As for Clancy in my future, I think I can sum it up with tl;dr.
I first heard of Tom Clancy in 1990, when a coworker told me about this author who'd become the darling of military specialists (sonar guys on submarines, for example) because his books displayed an in-depth understanding of their work.So I read The Hunt for Red October, which was fairly satisfying, and Red Storm Rising, after which I was pretty much Clancy-ed out for a while.After all, these are fairly hefty books, and with all those pages I'd prefer to see more character development.
This leads to my first complaint about the book.The ending of The Sum of All Fears does not justify the nearly 800 hardcover pages that lead up to it.
This ties in to my above theory: Clancy wastes so many valuable pages on meaningless tangents and the inclusion of too many details that he leaves himself without enough maneuvering room at the end to bring the book to a satisfying conclusion.
Two examples: the whole Ricks USS Maine submarine tangent of the story is barely related to the plot of the book.
It is merely thrown in to show us that Clancy knows submarines, I suppose; it wastes pages.
The Sum of All Fears  Tom Clancy After the discovery of a damaged Israeli nuclear bomb which had gone missing in 1973, Arabs, who got their hands on this weapon of mass destruction, seek the help of a German scientist who helps them replicate the bomb in order for it to be used against the United States, after a treaty which is meant to settle the war against Israel and Arabians displeases them.
Its up to DDCI Jack Ryan to uncover the most threatening terrorist acts of all time, and stop this crisis from occurring, or else, a third world war will begin.
The Americans suspect the Russians for this act of terrorism.
The big takeaway, I think, is that you don't have to be a powerful nation to build a hydrogen bomb, and it wouldn't be that difficult to get such a bomb across our borders.Although I don't foresee complete disarmament of the worlds nukes any time soon, the idea that these devices should not exist, even in the hands of world leaders, is compelling.
This book presents a scenario of how even good government leaders could let a situation escalate to the point of nuclear holocaust.This was a really long book.
It's really two good books wrapped into one.I recommend this book for adults who like a lot of action, politics, submarines, and technology.
I just re-read this book (about 15 or so years after reading it the first time), and I need to warn those who are thinking of reading it or who have just begun: stick with it through all the different story lines!
Make notes if you have to, but Clancy doesn't tell you something that isn't going to come into play in the story later.
Palestinians begin to use peaceful protests but a protestor is killed and therefore, U.S. cannot support Israel.
But U.S. manages to resolve the situation and create long lasting peace.
However,there is a group of Muslim terrorists who are looking at this lasting peace as a failure in their campain for their anger is toward the U.S. They retaliate by detonating a bomb in a stadium located in Colorado.
The results are devastating and the plan is thwarted by Jack Ryan who proves with evidence that bomb in fact came from the U.S. I love how the author uses these events and makes it incredibly fast paced.
