https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22094293-hands
Every book I read for school is depressing.
I liked the way the story explained the fear of his hands. Loved the metaphor at the end, "The nervous expressive fingers, flashing in and out of the light, might well have been mistaken for the fingers of the devotee going swiftly through decade after decade of his rosary."
It only took five pages to evoke a lot of emotion. I could spend hours thinking about the character Wing Biddlebaum and his plight, but I don't want to. Hands ha done for me, the reader, exactly what a short story should do, trick me into thinking and feeling while I believe I am simply enjoying a story.
There is so much emotion in this short story.
Wing, the main character, does everything with his hands and motions them beautifully, as the author makes sure to let the readers know.
It tells the backstory of Wing and his troubled past.
Also talking about him as a teacher that works great with kids.
Unforchenuly there is some speculation of some other things he did but should do with his hands and the kids.
Very emotional read that has you reading, thinking, and re-reading to really understand.
I love the word choice in this text and the way the words all flow together.
The whole collection Winesburg, Ohio is available at http://www.bartleby.com/156/See CR discussions https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/... and https://www.goodreads.com/topic/show/...
“You are destroying yourself,” he cried. “You have the inclination to be alone and to dream and you are afraid of dreams. You want to be like others in town”. Wing Biddlebaum is the teacher every young boy needs but one not every boy deserves. Small-town Americana is perfectly synthesized in all its splendor, in all of its duplicitous idyll. Sherwood Anderson's influence on Faulkner and Hemingway is clear.
Emotion and meaning comprised in 4 beautiful pages. The feeling of alienation and isolation in the supposedly idyllic country life.
Nostalgic and Ironic Slice of LifeSlice of the world ...
The setting is in a small town near Winesburg, Ohio in a small, almost decayed house. The protagonist Wing Biddlebaum has talking problems and as the story develops, we get to know his past traumatic experiences. However, if it is true of what he has been charged of doing, can be questioned as he is portrayed as a good old man. He talks a lot using hands and they have some beauty (grotesque approach).
I have arranged my thoughts on this short story, which, frankly, makes me more uncomfortable with every reread, into a haiku: "It might sooth your nerves,But motives aren't the point withUninvited touch."
Ended up empathizing with the protagonist and feeling conflicted about my empathy.
Uni-read
I'm haunted by the scene of Wing Biddlebaum as a small, white, pitiful figure being chased through the field in the stark darkness.
5 short but gripping pages.
