https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91253.Ramona_Quimby_Age_8
I may never have read this excellent children’s book had I not read an article in “Business Insider” magazine titled, “the most famous authors from each state”.
I like to scan these types of lists out of curiosity, and to find books that I may want to read.
While I admit he is well known, and I have even read and liked several of his books, he is certainly not on the level of Willa Cather, who, in my opinion, is one of the best American authors of the 20th century.
In Oregon they listed Beverly Cleary, and her best known book was this one, Ramona Quimby, Age 8.
اما خیلی هم کار ساده‌ ای نیست.
رامونا باید با خیلی چیزها کنار بیاید.
بعد با شغل جدید مادر و از همه مهم‌تر، با معلم جدیدی که اصلاً نمی‌خواهد بفهمد رامونای کوچولو دارد برای بزرگ شدن این همه تلاش می‌کند...؛ البته رامونا هم بیدی نیست که با این باد‌ها بلرزد!
Her older sister's in the heart of hormonal angst, and her father's taking classes in college, resulting in two parents who are stressed about money.So, when Ramona accidentally overhears her teacher call her a “show-off” and a “nuisance,” she doesn't know what to do.
Mine would have acted the way Ramona's did, when she finally turned to them to let them know how upset she'd been for weeks, knowing that her teacher thought of her as a “show-off” and a “nuisance.” Ramona: “Mrs. Whaley doesn't like me.
I'd hide them under my desk and pretend that I wasn't reading.
Y'see, I did all the wrong things just like Ramona.Coolest things about Ramona from my memories (books may overlap) :I loved how she'd pretend that a camera was on her at all times.
Reading 'Ramona' would make me stop doing it for a little while before I'd forget and do it all over again.
Say for four years.]I loved it when she thought "be there for the present" meant be there to get a present.
I really love how badly behaved she was in the first book Ramona the Pest.
Every defining experience Ramona Quimby went through was mine, even though I was living a life totally different than hers.
It's obvious that Ms. Cleary's straightforward language and writing talent will live on as long as reading exists.
Several years ago, I myself gifted it to my husband's then eight year old little sister, and had the pleasure of seeing her running through the woods of their home in Montana with the book tightly clutched in her hand as she ran about in wildflowers and grasses, pausing only to read from the book in favored stops.
Ramona is a very lovely, intelligent and cute girl. And her family is great too! It would be good if every family would get along so well and would stick always together. This reading was difficult for me at the beginning because the vocabulary is a little complex to an English learner and I finished that only with the help of an audiobook.
دوران دبستان بود که من کتابای رامونا رو خوندم و عاشقش شدم. این چیزی هم که درموردش نوشتم، کامنتیه که توی وب ارغوان گذاشتم و دوستدارم اینجا هم باشه. :]من شیش ساله که بودم، یه کتابفروشیای بود تو خیابون ولیعصر، اسمش بود کتابفروشی فردوس. بعد از اونجا فسقلیها -شامل پیپی پرکار و جیجی جیشو و تیتی تنبل و امثالهم :)- رو برای اوّلینبار گرفتم و خوندم :) بعد مامانم منُ با رامونا آشنا کرد -به واسطهی کتابِ "ادبیات کودک و نوجوان" که اونموقه داشت میخوند- و من دورانِ شیش تا یازده سالگی رو با این موجودِ دوسداشتنی
بعد از اون‌جا فسقلی‌ها -شامل پی‌پی پرکار و جی‌جی جیشو و تی‌تی تنبل و امثالهم :)- رو برای اوّلین‌بار گرفتم و خوندم :) بعد مامانم منُ با رامونا آشنا کرد -به واسطه‌ی کتابِ "ادبیات کودک و نوجوان" که اون‌موقه داشت می‌خوند- و من دورانِ شیش تا یازده سالگی رو با این موجودِ دوس‌داشتنی گذروندم :) رامونا اسطوره‌م بود اصن :) هر کتاب‌شُ صصصصدبار خونده بودم تا پنجم و حتّی تابستون پنجم به اوّل و حتّی تابستون اوّل به دوّم 8->>> و درواقع رامونا کتابِ مرجع من بود، کتابخونه‌م بود.
I think parents and young children actually have more in common across time than teenagers do, and it's Beezus' life that seems the most unrealistically wholesome and tame in light of teen literature now.That said...
In that way, I think the Ramona books escape being dated-and-uncool, and now are just books-about-a-cool-kid-set-in-a-different-time.These books provide an opportunity to ask questions and learn and discuss what has changed in the world -- and why, and how, and whether that's all for the best -- if children want to have those kinds of discussions.
Listening to it in my car. Stockard Channing does the narration. I have always said, and still believe the Channing/Ramona combo is the the greatest achievement ever in audiobooks.
I remember reading this book when I was eight, and feeling so thrilled that I was reading a book just for me.
I loved the Ramona Quimby books when I was a kid.
Reading it as an adult is a completely different experience.The book is still hilarious, but it's an entirely different set of jokes that cracked me up.
Reading the book as an adult, I was just as engaged by the adult dramas taking place at the edges of the stage as I was by Ramona's story.This is an incredible work, and all the more incredible for seeming to have been effortlessly written.
(Because let's face it, most of the time when you re-read something you loved as a kid, it turns out to be pretty crappy.)
It's not that the book is overly sweet, it's just that it doesn't have any bite.
There were two very funny parts that stood out to me: When Ramona came up with "I can't believe I read the whole thing!" and when she busted the raw egg on her head.
But the overall experience of reading the book wasn't very satisfying.
Especially after reading Bud Not Buddy, I'm thinking, Jeez!
Stop whining, Ramona, at least you have parents!
Though I expected to love it, Ramona Quimby, Age 8 didn't seem like an important book.
This book surprised me. I haven't read a children's book in ages, and I was expecting the story to be fluffy and cute. What I actually found was a simple, but accurate view of how a child sees the world - the problems of adults, their own problems (enormously magnified and all consuming) and the joy of being 8 years old, and owning a "Pearly" pink eraser.This is a great read!
Here Ramona cracks a raw egg on her head, throws up in front of her whole first-grade class, and then learns about being part of a family or something. I once vomited in front of my whole 11th-grade class. Some of us really have it rough, Ramona.
I really love Stockton Channing as the audio narrator for this series. She really captures the characters so well, and I am completely enjoying my slow reread of this series. It's still funny, very classic, and still so easy to recommend to younger readers.
My girls and I listened to this on audiobook and truly enjoyed it. We laughed aloud quite a few times. Such a cute book!
I was 8ish the last time I read this book and it really resonated with me back then.
Now, as the mother of an 8 year old girl, I find it still resonates with me.
There were instances where I was able to pause and ask if she would have handled certain situations differently than Ramona and was not in the least bit surprised at her answers (she would not have been embarrassed by the Hard Boiled Egg Fad incident, for instance.)
The main character in this book is Ramona Quimby who is eight years old and starting the third grade.
Her mother works at a Doctors office during the day so she can't pick ramona up from school so she has to go over to her friend Howie's house.
School is always a little dificult for Ramona because she is made fun of by her squeaky shoes and when she cracks an egg on her head following a school fad and thinking her mother had hard boiled it and on top of that she thinks her teacher dislikes her.
سری 8 جلدی کتابهای رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزادهی 10 سالهام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتابها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچهها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتابها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچهها و کارهایی که میکنند عوض شد. فکر میکنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچهها بهتر شده. از سری کتابهایی هستند که حتما باز هم میخونمشون.
سری 8 جلدی کتاب‌های رامونا رو به پیشنهاد و برای همراهی و تشویق خواهرزاده‌ی 10 ساله‌ام که تازه شروع به مطالعه کرده است خوندم. خیلی خیلی از خوندنشون لذت بردم. کتاب‌ها با اینکه در غالب داستان برای بچه‌ها نوشته شده بود ولی در اصل روانشناسی کودک بود. بعد از خوندن این سری کتاب‌ها دیدم نسبت به دنیای بچه‌ها و کارهایی که می‌کنند عوض شد. فکر می‌کنم از بعد از اون روابطم هم با بچه‌ها بهتر شده. از سری کتاب‌هایی هستند که حتما باز هم می‌خونمشون.
I have a feeling Mrs. Whaley did some major ass-covering about what Ramona confronted her with. You know how grownups are: great liars to kids when they've been caught. The last chapter, though, where the old man pays for the family's dinner out made me D:I love, seriously love, that money comes up over and over. We never see this thing in kid lit today.
The second of three books the kids and I listened to as we drove through six states this summer.Yard ape and super foot are endearing names at our house now. I can't believe I read the whole thing! Hahaha!
I just LOVE Ramona and this book is one of my favorites. From the egg escapade to the kitten report, I just love it all. Perfect listening in the car this summer.
I grew up reading the Ramona books, and I still recommend them to students in my elementary library. I think the story, the relationships with her family members, and her antics are timeless.
All these years later and Ramona still holds up. I have very fond memories of my rather stern 4th grade teacher reading aloud the Ramona books to us after lunch. When Mrs. Carlson would read aloud we saw this whole either side to her.
Genre: Contemporary RealismWith the all the new changes in the Quimby family, quirky Ramona is just trying to get by as best as she can to help out her family.
She constantly worries about the problems faced by her parents, so it is her job to do well in school like her big sister, Beezus, and behave for her after school babysitter, Mrs. Kemp.
Hard-boiled eggs were the current fad, and the big part of this is the way you opened the egg.
Another example is when Ramona doesn’t want to tell her teacher, Mrs. Whaley, that she isn’t feeling well and ends up throwing up in the classroom.
I’ve been on a bit of a stint: reading ‘Ramona the Brave’, ‘Ramona Quimby: Aged 8’, and ‘Beezus and Ramona.’ I don’t know whether the books themselves bring me comfort, or whether reading them reminds me of being 9 and well looked after by my parents, but whatever the cause, reading Ramona makes things feel better.
Or maybe returning to your own childhood “yes!’ book - because they really do make everything feel a little bit better.
Beverly Cleary's 6th installment in the Ramona Quimby series received the Newbery Honor in 1982 and the Charlie May Simon Children's Book Award in 1983.
The target audience is children ages 5-8(P) and it is a contemporary realistic fiction.In this installment of the series, Mr.Quimby begins studying to become an art teacher.
The author has a nack for relating to children in a way that is sympathetic, lighthearted and down-to-earth.
This book is very easy for kids to relate to.
This would make a perfect read aloud book, and would provide lots of situations for kids to relate to in journal entries.Ramona Quimby, Age 8 is available in print.
I never read these as a child, which is a real shame. Once I heard that Beverly Cleary is turning 100 this year and I decided to give the Ramona books a try. I fell in love with Ramona and her family! While reading this memories of my own childhood came flooding back. I can't wait to read the rest of the series.
Have been listening to these books with my 6 year old daughter. We love them. She has been really enjoying getting to know Ramona for the first time and I have loved hearing them again. These were some of my favorites as a kid. Even the hubby has enjoyed them.
ramona quimby is the best.
