https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20353.Pick_Up
This is bleak as all-get-out, though Willeford's writing is beyond amazing.
I was reading this at the same time I was listening to The Sun Also Rises (well, not at the exact same time, but you know what I mean), and I couldn't help musing on which characters could drink one another under the table - the duo from this book, or Jake Barnes and his peeps.
And, I also couldn't stop thinking about what a much better writer Willeford is than Hemingway .
Maybe it's better this way.
Discover Charles Willeford on your own, and let his words wrap themselves around you.
Not quite as nifty as that 1955 edition up top, but unless anyone has an extra $60 lying around that they could do without, I guess I'll just have to stick with this one.Without a doubt one of the three or four best classic -era noir novels I've ever read, Pick-Up is a bleak, heartbreaking story about a newly-met alcoholic couple who are seemingly doomed, spending their days and nights in various bars drinking themselves into oblivion in order to forget the world and their lives.
I found myself connecting with these two right away, becoming wrapped up in their lives and really rooting for them to make it work, which is astonishing considering the entire novel is less than 200 pages, and is a testament to Willeford's proficiency at characterization.
It was good crime novel, that kind of reminded me of Elmore Leonard (second drawer), or Carl Hiasson.
As I said, the book was solid, but it perplexed me a bit, because I was aware that Willeford was held in high regard by crime writers like Leonard.
Looking back, I'm guessing at this late point in his career, Willeford was cashing in.
Miami Blues was the kind of novel Willeford could write in his sleep.Pick-Up is an entirely different affair.
One of the nice(?) things about Pick-Up is that it's pure noir, but noir that will cut against your expectations of just what noir is.
They soon start down a dangerous path of self-destruction.The synopsis reads like a standard noir novel but Willeford puts his own spin on it.
While a gimmick ending like the one in the movie The Usual Suspects negates the entire rest of the story, I think that this book can still work without its denouement, the conclusion acting as a cherry on top, forcing you to consider the story from a whole new angle!This is my first book by Charles Willeford.
A lack of respect and understanding of depression and substance dependency has been in the public consciousness recently with the high profile deaths of two incredible actors and, apparently, wonderful men but Willeford was clearly somebody who could treat the subject with an objective calm and an understanding of why and how people from various walks of life can all fall to the same weaknesses with no respite in sight beyond the promise of peace brought by that final moment when you stop fighting.
or 2) the entire narrative now spins the story into a different light I hadn't even considered, and just how important, really, is that reveal?
And the big reveal begs the question: what about the rest of the characters?BOOK 39: Mid-20th Century American Crime ReadathonHOOK=3 stars: A man and a woman meet in a bar.
But their names aren't important: you will remember them for a different reason.PLACE=3: San Francisco bars, jails, and cheap apartments, but this could have been set anywhere.Summary: I'm giving this an average rating of 3.6.
And I'm questioning the author's final twist.
Yes, it gives the book a completely different spin.
During a spell in a psychiatric hospital, he goes up to the roof with a male nurse for a smoke; asks the guy why he does this work, and the male nurse says, “For the girls.” Funny thing about nurses, he says—the women nurses—is that when they’re not in their uniforms they’re horrible dressers.
The hero and his girl attempt to kill themselves in a harrowing wrist-slashing episode that suddenly comes out of nowhere (I’m not giving much away here—it happens early in the book, and the chapter is called “Suicide Pact”), and it is powerfully imagined.
Would have been 5 stars, except the "shocker" ending which, IMO, doesn't have any bearing on the plot whatsoever.
That he, despite his.....inescapable stigma...for lack of a better way to be spoiler-free...was able to end up the way it did?Yeah, this book is one of those spoiler landmines.
Just read the friggin' thing and make up your own damn mind.
Loved the style.
It's no-nonsense pulp, just the way I like it.ETA: Reminiscent of Julien Green's The Dark Journey and Francis Carco's Only a Woman, if only for the sheer miserable feeling I got reading about miserable people behaving miserably.
Dayumn. Willeford was one subversive motherfucker in the '50s. Like his contemporaneous masterpiece  The Woman Chaser , this is a dark novel with serious ambition and zero pretense toward the pulp thrills promised by its original marketing--or even its current marketing, deceptively packaged in the Library of America's 1950s crime-novel volume. But unlike The Woman Chaser, which was basically a very deranged comedy, Pick-Up is pure nihilism, a sustained howl of bleak, hopeless agony. Honestly, i
Like I said, not for the faint of heart.So why is this brutal stuff so compelling?
And he builds up to an absolutely devastating final-page twist that, as the AV Club's Keith Phipps noted, changes everything and nothing about what comes before.It's so weird to think that the Willeford who wrote this and The Woman Chaser went on to pen the near-geriatric Miami crime novels about Hoke Moseley in the '80s.
Funny parallel between this and the Hoke Moseley book Sideswipe, written 30 years later: both have characters who are "non-objective painters." Dude really likes that phrase.
This story felt a bit rushed to me. The downwards spiral, after Harry and Helen met, seemed to happen too fast; just a few weeks.The ending came as no surprise, although the second last line was, but that didn't effect my overall view of the book.A quick read, but not an easy one. In fact, it was downright depressing.
Despite the in your face downward spiral of despair, depression, and alcoholism that is the main focus, Willeford delivers a fully realized literary novel whose moments of caring are a blinding light against the unrelenting darkness portrayed.
To read this novel from the perspective of "it is a noir, a pulp novel" would, I think, completely miss the point.
Wish I'd read this in grad school days; could essay the hell out of this book!The little trick at the end - that's an essay, too.
Willeford was unique and this book is no exception. It reads more as an existential novel about two people who reject society and love each other deeply. His writing is strong as usual, but it didn't work for me, and the infamous twist ending is still twisting my mind. I can see it, except in how others reacted. But it's no more of a fantasy with the twist or without.
I sort of loved this. It's well-written and readable. The subject matter is depressing, verging on disgusting. I mean, it could be worse, but it's not exactly charming. It's not much of a crime story, more one man's issues, psychosis and guilt. As such it calls strongly to mind Highsmith and Thompson - Willeford was their contemporary, and very similar, but also talented. I read one of his books before this, and would like to read more ...
A couple of down and out transients drink and pass time in 1950s San Francisco. Good hard boiled style. This novel has a SURPRISE ENDING. I usually don't like gimmicks at the end of stories, but this one makes you re-think your IMAGINING of the narrative. Four stars.
It is about two people who can think of nothing better to do with their lives than get drunk and finally, out of the emptiness and despair relentlessly gnawing at their souls from which they can no longer run they agree to kill themselves.This does not go as smoothly as they anticipated; however, one of them succeeds in dying and the other one gets to spend a lot of time getting examined by psychiatrists and sitting in jail cells.The story was about as interesting as following two alcoholics around and watching them drink.
This is one of the best books I've read in quite some time.
165 pages of superb, concise writing that delves into the deepest, darkest reaches of the human psyche.Helen and Harry are complex, obsessive and totally lost.
This is brilliant.
I never feel pity for them, just a sinister fascination and understanding.
You respect their honesty, commiserate with their self-destruction on some level.
This is a classic must-read if you can locate a copy.
I guarantee when I got to the end, many areas became clear and it was completely worth the entire journey.
Dark irony, pulp fiction at it's best.
This is exactly my kind of book. Loser guy who's a line cook but thinks he's an artist (or is he an artist?) takes up with a drifter, alcoholic woman and slides toward oblivion. I've been devouring Willeford lately and have no plans to stop.
Terrific and bleak. And I might change my last name to Hingen-Bergen.
The first part reads like a novel version of Barfly, the film based on Bukowski's work.
"It looks like an art student's groping for an idea." I suggested.
That's what these ink blots look like to me." "How about right here?" He pointed with his pencil to one of the larger blots.
"Does this look like a butterfly to you?" "Not to me.
No." "What does it look like?" "It looks like some artist has been doodling around with black ink trying to get an idea." How many times did he want me to tell him?
Willeford presents a uniquely american existentialism with, as David Cochran notes, an ideological edge radical for its time:“Willeford created a world in which the predatory cannibalism of American capitalism provides the model for all human relations, in which the American success ethic mercilessly casts aside all who are unable or unwilling to compete, and in which the innate human appreciation of artistic beauty is cruelly distorted by the exigencies of mass culture.”I mean, THAT is one reason why Willeford’s work is so vital and necessary!
However, Willeford manages a very modern reversal and kind of transgressive literary and social criticism with the infamous last two lines of the novel that forces you to re-think everything you’ve assumed from the very first page!
Charles Willeford writes about the relationship of Harry Jordan with Helen Meredith, whom he meets at a bar.
But when Helen can't stand being alone while he works, and instead she goes out and drinks with sailors and marines, they form a suicide pact.
Then the trial occurs, followed by two surprises that completely laid me low.Pick-Up is five stars in retrospect, but four stars while I was reading it.
It's just that Willeford set up the surprise so well and sustained it through the length of the novel.
With this, only his second novel, Willeford has secured a place among my favorite writers.
(Yes, yes, what an honor.) It's not the most polished piece of craft, but it's an utterly shocking and uncompromising portrait of two alcoholics who meet, fall in love, and circle the drain together.
But what really knocked me out is the penultimate line of the book: Just one little twist, in a book that shows no previous interest in twistiness, puts the entire story in a more profound context.
I went into this book with the wrong expectations; I can blame both the description on the back of the book as well as my own misconception that Willeford writes dark comedies.
It's nihilistic for sure, and Willeford does a really excellent job of making me care about *what happens to* the characters even if I don't care about the characters.
Chris pointed out that Willeford does not write well developed female characters (I might argue that Willeford doesn't even write female characters; he writes props who happen to be female), and you're not going to get one with Helen.
Do not read the last page ahead of time for it will spoil one of the more haunting 'plot twists' ever.
Not so much a plot twist as a paradigm shift of revelation, forcing you to go back through all of your impressions about the strange events in the story.
Some of the dialogue had seemed a bit dear for the character I had constructed in my mind, but now I'm uncertain about it and several other things in the book.
My mind is feverishly awake, now, and though I've already said too much, it would never feel like enough.
Willeford's understanding of depression and alcoholism rings as genuine to me, speaking as a person who has had problems with both of those things in the past.
In fact, I'd like to put a warning here to those suffering from depression, mental illness, and addiction: this novel is potentially triggering.
If you want to go back through the entire book and read everything from the perspective of that knowledge, that's your prerogative i suppose.
I think the reason that information was delivered as the final sentence of the book is that it doesn't matter.
The book isn't about that.
This book is interesting because a significant portion of it hangs on the last line - in fact, it's one of those books that turns (or tries to turn) everything over in the last few words.
It works, kind of, but the effect is somewhat cheap and tries to change what the book is "about." Close, but not quite a success.Aside from the content-shifting twist, the plot is very similar to Jean-Paul Sartre's story "The Wall," which is basically an existentialist thought-problem in narrative form.
This one really reminded me of one of my other favourite reads this year, Shoot the Piano Player by David Goodis.
Can't say much more without giving the story away other than that the two final sentences of this one totally turn around the perspective on the whole thing in a very clever way - WARNING: DO NOT, WHATEVER YOU DO, SKIP AHEAD AND READ THE FINAL PAGE.
YOU MUST LEAVE IT UNTIL THE END!Love it when I discover a new favourite author - have now purchased another three novels by Charles Willeford which I intend to read very soon.
Another bleak, drunken noir set in SF, by the great Willeford. Bibulous fry-cook meets self-destructive beauty, falls for her. They move into his flophouse and gradually sink into a well of depression resulting in a failed suicide pact, brief institutionalization, and finally a successful suicide pact; well, successful for her. When our hero(?) awakens to find his beloved dead, presumably by his own hand, he is jailed for weeks, only to be released on a technicality. Terse, atmospheric prose and a consistent sense of ambiguous foreboding make this one of the better pulps I've read in a while.
Gritty tale of two down-and-out misfits and their ill-starred romance is San Francisco in the early 1950s. Most of the action takes place on the streets, in bars, in a third-rate rooming house, in a psychiatric ward, and in jail. Vivid and distubing, with a surprise ending that changes the entire book, but overall, a bit too depressing for my taste.
This book is the literary equivalent to the “Cinema of Transgression” (Nick Zedd/Richard Kern) where a couple hit the bottom via alcohol and depravity and reach even lower than humanly possible. The twist ending will make you crazy. I can’t get this book out of my mind. An overlooked classic.
