https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/451763.The_Underground_Man
Although I don't think the resolution of the plot is quite as effective as some of the others (The Galton Case, The Chill, The Goodbye Look, for example) the imagery that structures the narrative is profound, resonant and organic.
At the end of the novel, Archer finds himself thinking that "quite often nowadays the low-life subplots were taking over the tragedies." When Chaos is unleashed, tragedy can never be the same.
This metaphor is a little over the top, but I love it; Lew Archer is definitely the archeologist of crime!
This seemingly innocent request resulted in Archer uncovering a trail of seemingly unrelated dead people - from both the present and the past - killed in seemingly unrelated crimes as well as deeply troubled teens and their equally troubled parents.
This is a typical novel of the series where dark past comes back to haunt the people in present.
It has more than enough plot twists to make for a very engagement and exciting read with countless connections between lots of different people with different social standings all coming into play.
I have only two books of the series left and I plan to start on the next one right away.
The books of Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer series are always somehow very pleasant to read, and solid, satisfying mysteries as well. This one has a background of fire and rain, with a big forest fire (Southern California).
"What the hell?" This kept going through my mind from the beginning to the end of this book.Reading along merrily (well, perhaps merrily isn't the best word) and zap, I didn't see that one coming.
Macdonald reads my mind.
I love hard-boiled because they're mostly succinct and to the point; clear, clean writing with every word having a purpose.Leave it to Lew Archer, one of the top P.I.'s in the phone book, to solve a complicated mystery.
I must admit though that I like the earlier 1950 Archers than the later ones but I'll take Ross Macdonald's writing over ________ (fill in the blank) any day.
And sometimes a murder occurs outdoors so the investigators get to chat about what’s taking place in the open air, but mostly the pounding away of the investigation and the high drama of the denouement takes place in a varying selection of rooms.Written a couple of years after ‘The Moving Target’ was adapted into a so-so movie, here we have Ross MacDonald doing his damndest to open the detective story out.
And even though it doesn’t want to be, it does feel a far more reactionary book than one would imagine from the pen of the great Ross MacDonald.
An eerily sentient wildfire coiling its way through southern California, the angry son of a long-mis
This is vintage Ross Macdonald: rich society, double crosses, disturbed youth, dirty secrets all set in the Southern California "ghetto" (his word, not mine).
The enigmatic, faceless PI Lew Archer reveals in this book he was once married.
But Lew is a good guy to have around in a tight jam.
Sometimes I felt this one read like the author's autobiography.
Quick read.
Sometimes on this re-read the similes get in the way of the writing, but they are a standard ploy in the older traditional private eye books since Marlowe cracked a million of them.
I love Ross MacDonald.
This book had all of the standard MacDonald elements--a complicated web of familial and sexual relationships, extramarital affairs, multiple murders, horribly corrupt rich folk--both old money and nouveau riche--all magnified by the mentally disturbed adolescents who inherit the sins of their fathers and mothers.
I know it sounds depressing but it's great fun.
Fun like opening the paper to a new Blagojevich or Monica Lewinski type scandal every morning for a week or two.
Plus, you get to enjoy trying to figure out who slept with whom and who killed whom.
Eudora Welty praised this novel highly in a NYT review, which kicked off a long correspondence with RM recently published in Meanwhile There Are Letters: The Correspondence of Eudora Welty and Ross Macdonald.
I wish Macdonald's novels were as good as his letters.
Now I like emotional depth in mystery-crime characters (Benjamin Black, aka John Banville, in his Quirke series, does a fine job of creating layers of psych depth without turning the narrative into a dreary slog), but RM lays it on pretty thickly.
Whether the letters will lead me to read more Archer novels -- to be determined.
You know that famous Faulkner quote about how the past isn't dead, in fact it isn't even past? Ross Macdonald took that idea to heart more than just about any other novelist. His detective novels are stunningly intricate webs of murder, deceit, and corruption in which all the above sins are passed on from generation to generation among cruel rich families. Call it tragedy-noir, or just call it brilliant and moving. Ross Macdonald is the man. This one is a good place to start if you're looking for an entry point.
The 16th(!) Lew Archer book by Ross Macdonald and it may be my favorite. I really liked the sense of urgency and tension. Short version: Lew befriends a small child who is his neighbor one morning. That evening the child goes missing while a wildfire slowly consumes the California countryside. The clock was really ticking on this one and the strain of it pushes Archer to the tipping point. This is one case that he can't mess up. The mystery is excellent and the writing top notch. I literally couldn't put this book down until I finished it.
A smart and well-written mystery set in southern California at the beginning of the '70s, with a good flavour of the era.
Another compelling and extremely well-written entry in Ross Macdonald's Lew Archer series of detective novels. This one, in concert with Macdonald's ongoing theme, revolves around an old family secret that comes back to haunt those lucky enough to have survived the events of the secret. Macdonald is simply one of the best writers of this sort of fiction, a writer with poetry and heartbreak and melancholy in his soul who conveys those attributes without undue cynicism and with an unobtrusive but magical way with words. This is one of his best.
I don't know if this is Macdonald's "best", but it's my favorite by my favorite mystery writer. I think it was in Colm Toibin's "The Blazing Heather" where the main character, a judge, says something along the lines of "people want mercy, but all I can give them is justice". Macdonald's private eye Lew Archer doles out the mercy, often in spite of himself. Compassion. What a concept. And it all holds up pretty well, fifty years after it was first published.
Lew Archer is moving into the seventies, trying to keep up with changing times, and so are his characters.
After reading several crime/mystery novels, it was refreshing to read one that opened with real momentum, and that felt honestly earned.
The prose is a little purple, but it's a pleasant hue.
As a fan of private investigator novels, I like a bit of purple prose.
Macdonald isn't entirely convincing in his description of his younger character and people's drug use, and frankly, I thought it spun on a little long, but it was still one of the best mysteries I've read this year.
I have been reading the Archer novels chronologically but haven't enjoyed the last two as much as the earlier novels.
Archer is growing older and has become, in my opinion, less interesting.
None of the characters, including Archer, were very interesting.
The ever changing knowledge about the murky interrelationships between the characters never became impactful to the complex plot.
By the time all the pieces came together in a wimpy ending I no longer cared very much.
And it didn't seem that Archer cared very much either.
We both hung around to the end but I'm not sure it was worth it to either of us.
The Lew Archer novels are all about pace.
They move slowly, gathering more and more dirt as the trail leads further and further back through the years and what happens is you get dragged along in all these knots of guilt and grief and regret, until you become a witness to these generations of failure.
Sometimes the murders feel like lesser crimes than the cycle of damage that the parents pass on to the children.
This book was a little slow-moving at first, but then picked up speed around the second half.
MacDonald is a really methodical writer, so even though his plot is convoluted (in a fantastic way), he untangles each thread enough so that you're confused, but still curious.
This book also serves as a great portrait of life in late-sixties Los Angeles, and offers a pretty unflinching portrait of "The Greatest Generation" and the Baby Boomers (basically, everyone's up to no good).
I greatly enjoyed this book, and while it is a cliche to say a mystery "kept me guessing till the very end," it's a cliche that fits here.
Another book about adventures of private detective Lew Archer, the most important event in the book is a large forest fire in California. Archer struggles with a fire trying to unravel the mystery of the murder. As usual, solving the mysteries of the past is the key to understanding the current killing. Perhaps the most interesting in the novel is the gradual discovery of the past, Archer like an archaeologist digs up slowly to discover new secrets and to explain them. The book keeps good pace, and is excellently written , clearly it's one of MacDonald's better crime stories.
Late Lew Archer, full of painful family psychology and tortured family trees, but ameliorated by Archer's calming and empathetic presence. This one has a forest fire and its aftermath weaving in and out of the drama, to great effect.
3.5*
Spannend van begin tot eind, wel volle aandacht nodig om de personages te onthouden, telkens weer andere wendingen, niet te voorspellen einde... boekje v pépé v 1978
This a slow-burner, that gets more and more complicated with more and more characters as it goes along. I really loved the beginning chapter where Lew (the private eye) is feeding peanuts to the birds... And I liked the setting of LA and San Francisco, with forest fires burning in the background. While it wasn't necessarily my kind of book, it kinda got under my skin, and I found myself wondering how Lew was getting on. The writing is sparse and subtle and just all round classy.
Fantastic written, smooth and flows, maybe a we bit of too many characters but great detective fiction
Macdonald was a neglected child due to his parents separation and characters who are desperately seeking their lost parents are at the center of both The Galton Case and The Underground Man (the two Macdonald novels I have read so far).
But what begins as a hunt for a kidnapped child branches out into a really complicated plot involving many families whose names I had a tough time keeping track of.
What I wrote in my review for The Galton Case is also true for The Underground Man - The whole novel is like one big con job.
the characters bled into each other...at times it was not easy distinguishing one from another.
yeah, sure, a closer reading avoids that problem...that, or a character list at the git-go.
at times i thought...ummm, reads like a screenplay, not that i've read many screenplays, maybe none at all in fact.
a few of the characters stand out, fritz, was that his name?
too, there was some bit about the world's population.see...this theory i have, completely scientific, is that fashionable ideology, like the waves hitting the beach, or cnn's talk-radio-television (woe and alas!
like overpopulation are part and parcel of the gubbening influences.
Unusually, this was second book I had read with the title of The Underground Man (the first one, about an eccentric Victorian Duke, is very different from this one though!), and it was the first novel I ever read by Ross Macdonald.I came to this book with the expectation that Macdonald and his man Lew Archer were the closet heirs to Raymond Chandler and his peerless creation Philip Marlow, so I was really looking forward to this book.However, I had previously read a book by Robert B Parker (Pot Shot) with the same expectation, and that was a woeful piece of wish-ulfillment dross that made Mike Hammer look genuinely humble and hard-boiled and humble, so I had trepidations.
I liked this a lot better than The Galton Case (TGC).
A slowly developing attraction between the young wife that looks like it might lead somewhere (though given the genre, I'm sure in sequels she'll be out of the picture for whatever stupid reason).
Sure, the interrelationships between the various aggrieved parties are as complex as anything that Chandler wrote but the rest of the story feels pretty low-key compared to much in the genre.One continual problem with MacDonald's books is that the narrator, Lew Archer, is a fairly meh.
He feels like a character in an FPS videogame -- no depth.
Sleuth Lew Archer is trying to help out a young woman and her son track down her husband who's gone off to his mother's estate in the southern California foothills, which estate is unfortunately in the path of a forest fire. The husband is found dead and buried but the little boy is missing, last seen in the company of a woman the husband is involved with. More bodies turn up over the course of a complicated investigation. I love the Lew Archer series and this is one of my favorites.
Ross Macdonald never disappoints. What a seemingly effortless job he does of combining the mystery genre with the family saga, while giving us some of the best similes and metaphors ever written. I continue to agree with those critics who say he was the best of the three when it comes to Hammett-Chandler-Macdonald.
