https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/597489.The_Witches_of_Worm
There were qualities I admired in this novel while I was reading it, but too little I found memorable.The story concerns Jessica, a twelve-year-old latchkey kid who lives in the Regency, an apartment house with her single mother, Joy. While mom is a vivacious blonde who would rather turn to stone than stay home and bake cookies, daughter is a sullen loner who lives in her own imagination.
Worm's howling, growling, scratchy voice tells Jessica the truth: "I am a witch's cat."Who is the witch?
(view spoiler)[ Jessica herself is the witch.
(hide spoiler)]Then Worm starts telling Jessica to do awful things.
Mrs. Fortune, the old, slightly "off" cat lady who lives in Jessica's building.
He's also, in some ways, a better person than Jessica, as (view spoiler)[ he shows compassion to Mrs. Fortune whereas Jessica has none, and he likes animals and protects them from abuse, and Jessica is an animal abuser.
(hide spoiler)]Joy, Jessica's only parent and a mostly absentee one.
(hide spoiler)]I really, really love this book.
It's weird to reread this an adult because as a kid (this is true of many of Snyder's stories) it seems ambivalent whether there is actually magical stuff going on. Is her cat [gasp] a witch?! As adult it it obvious that this is an abused kid projecting crazy, rage-filled fantasies on her equally unlucky and abused kitten. Knowing what the score is makes it more disturbing, not less.
This book scared the bejeezus out of me when I first read it in middle school.
It didn't scare me as badly this time (thank goodness; last time I had to sleep with the lights on and locked my cat out of my room for two days), but it still is an incredibly creepy novel.
Although she feels compelled to care for the cat, she finds it gross and creepy, rather than cute, and names it Worm.
Snyder is a masterful storyteller, and there's a lot going on in this book that I missed the first time around.
And I give him those two figs that I don't give to awards that I don't care about.) But I hate it when I feel bad for being the recluse who slinks off and mutters to herself when fitting into society was more trouble than it was worth.I also hated the ending.
I'm not going to give Snyder any awards for good endings (or fig newtons).My awards to evil little girls:1.
Ahem we are identical and she misidentified us in photographs) be little Shirley Temples.
I remember seeing this book everywhere when I was a kid, with hundreds of different covers, but I finally decided to give it a go when I saw it on the Bookmobile. I really like this. It has that perfect vibe of the classic children's books I read as a kid, probably because it is one of those books. It's literary and doesn't talk down to its audience, but it is also simple to read.Overall, its a breezy, slightly spooky book that I highly recommend!
I suggest reading Joe's review - https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
- if you want a better plot synopsis.Essentially, Jessica becomes convinced that her kitten Worm is a witch's cat, and he is getting inside her head, making her do bad things.
It is a troubling look at a disturbed girl's life, and I think it works better as a book for adults, rather than children.
Snyder's scenes between mother and daughter are particularly well written, simmering with tension and mistrust.
I just didn't like the book.
I didn't like her, and I didn't like reading about her.
I worry that this book will cause people to be mean to cats like Jessica is to her cat.
I don't like the occult theme of this book either.
I didn't like the neighbor playing into Jessica's delusion.
Even the cover is creepy - and would make people hate cats.
I was surprised the counselor didn't figure out the meaning of Jessica's story - the one she felt didn't mean anything.
I am surprised this is a Newberry book, but the writing is good.
I am bothered that she became friends again with Brandon after he was abusive to her.
I don't want them to think this is okay.
When he changes, it is a frightening change, the thing that makes it truly eerie is the subtly of it.
This is probably the first story I ever read that toed the line between some thing magical and strange happenings, and the first time I, as a reader, questioned the main character's sanity.
I loved the main character's voice as a child, as it was in many ways very different than anything else I had ever read before.
I do remember being honestly and deliciously frightened by this book as a child, so be careful who you give it to.
Jessica is a lonely preteen girl whose mother, Joy, neglects, and her friend, Brandon, abuses (he hits her).
She reluctantly takes care of it and her mother names it Worm.
Jessica becomes more and more unhinged as the book progresses.
Her non-existent mother certainly doesn't help, and the fact that she doesn't have any friends makes for a good recipe for cooking up bad things.
Well meaning adults will be horrified at Jessica's behavior, but I think this is still a relevant book that kids should read today.
I picked this up because I loved The Egypt Game as a kid, I haven't read anything else by Zilpha Keatley Snyder and I have thing for 1970s Newbery Honor books.
In a very childish way, this made me really connect with Jessica, as I also have a sort of ugly, definitely evil cat who I occasionally resent and despise and I'm pretty certain he's got a demonic possession, too.
This book is about Worm, a witch's cat who tells Jessica to do horrible things, like ruin her mother's clothing, frighten old ladies with lies about men breaking into their houses and punish a "witch" by setting her house on fire.
Zilpha Keatley Snyder seems to be at her absolute peak in this fantastic volume, having created very real atmospheres of taut suspense and echoing loneliness, deeply hidden anger and the unpredictability of close relationships in this sometimes searing look into the life and thoughts of a troubled girl named Jessica.
It is an easy lesson to recite but so terribly difficult to learn in one's innermost parts, deep down where it truly can settle in and be believed by oneself.The Witches of Worm truly is a splendidly affecting book, and a genuine pleasure to read.
If this were a Stephen King book, Jessica would have probably slaughtered the entire apartment complex, but The Witches of Worm is a little more subtle and sadder than that.
Jessica doesn't have any friends, she hates everybody, and there's a cat who's (maybe) making her do things.
(Or possibly she's making HERSELF do things; it's very vague.) The scene where she writes a "fake" story for her school counselor almost made me cry: it's about a baby abandoned in a park and, just, SO SAD, because the baby is totally Jessica and she didn't even see that.
In contrast, when I reread The Witches of Worm a few days ago, so much time had passed between when I last read it and now that I found the differences between my childhood and adult perceptions of the book truly striking.
(Then again, the fact that the edition I read this time contained a helpful author's note explaining the story's themes might have made me more receptive to the book's deeper meaning.)For example, I love how the book starts:"I'm sorry, Jessie Baby," Joy said.
An awesomely creepy book from Snyder, who I love for her unique treatment of the supernatural; always leaving it realistic, ambigious, and not always totally evil.Jessica feels abandoned; her glamourous mother is gone most of the time, her (former) best friend seems to have forgotten her, and she spends most of her days alone, bothered only by the nosy landlady.Then Jessica finds Worm, a tiny black kitten, in a cave on a stormy night.
Is he really the demon...or is Jessica the witch?Creepy in an utterly psychological way, the interplay between Worm's supposed evil nature and Jessica's own mental state is fascinating.
I image this 1973 Newbery honor book would give youngsters the heebie jeebies and it might take a more mature YA to sift through the overtones of paranormal to the fact that the author is making a strong statement about those who seem to blame others or outside forces for their own character defects.Jessica is more than a latch key child, she emotionally neglected by a selfish, immature and young mother.
Astute in knowing she is not wanted, Jessica suffers dramatically and acts out viciously.When she discovers an abandoned, weak, feeble, scrawny kitten, she reluctantly nurses him to life.
While the author is a three-time Newbery honor winner, this one doesn't seem to be one of her best.
I think I read this when I was little, the first chapter seemed vaguely familiar. Pretty creepy. Not because Worm might be a demon cat, but because Jessica might be a psychopath. Brandon was an abusive little turd as well. I liked it though.
Kindle Daily Deal 7/30/14 $1.99.
This is a chilling story for older children and young adults, about a lonely teenaged girl, Jessica and the kitten she raises without wanting it, called Worm (you can tell she didn't like cats).
Then she seems to hear Worm telling her how to harm a girl at school by getting her into trouble with her parents.Jessica has a vivid imagination, but is the cat really speaking or is it suggestion?
Can't be her fault can it?Worm acts completely in character for a cat which has never known affection and is locked in an apartment with two people who feed him but never stroke him.
It's well-done, though, and I like Snyder because she doesn't talk down to kids, nor does she shy away from some intense stuff.
I loved her books when I was a kid, and I don't remember noticing anything too intense.
And although there's usually some sort of "moral to the story," it's never heavy-handed and is a byproduct of the good literature (as opposed to a simplistic moral tale posing as literature).This is not my favorite of Snyder's books, but even though I didn't read it for a long time because the theme was so dark, I really enjoyed it.
A cat on the cover, of course I'm going to read it.
Witches of Worm is a Newberry Honor Book, that follows a 12 year old girl named Jessica.
After a while, she starts becoming paranoid of the cat, mostly because of all the books on witchcraft she has been reading.
For a children's book, Witches of Worm takes a very mature approach to responsibility.
Like the Salem witch trials themselves, Jessica may very well be making up these voices to excuse her actions.
The book manages to create suspense and mystery where there isn't any, by sucking us in to Jessica's paranoia.
I picked up a copy of this book for my daughter at a thrift store and ended up reading it because I was looking for a quick read.
Plus, I like to share books with her.
For me, one of the most interesting aspects of the book is the main character, Jessica.
The big reason we care about Jessica at all is her home life.
Her mom is barely around, focusing more on her own romantic life than on raising her daughter.
Jessica's basically left to fend for herself, and she does the best she can.
I really like how Snyder portrayed Jessica's mom.
I'm a fan of Zilpha Keatley Snyder--was as a child; was as a parent of four; am now as a lifelong library worker. The children who are her protagonists and secondary characters all ring true, even when there is a mist of exciting magic or supernatural about their adventures.Friends and I are reading our way through the Newbery Award books (and many of the Honour titles), and it is a pleasure to find a Snyder book among them now and then.
This is a great, spooky book for children to read over the Halloween season. I can't remember exactly (I'll have to reread it), but there was one particular part in it that scared me to death. I just remember shutting the book to find my parents. After this, I tried to find and read every book Zilpha Keatley Snyder ever wrote.
Proper review pending until I give it the reread it deserves, but this was the first non-Stephen King horror I ever read as a child, and the sense of creeping dread it inspired in me then still sits at the back of my neck, where it gives the occasional creepy-fond stroke down my spine.
I was able to enjoy this more with the author's note in this version about inviting one's own devils and needing to exorcise them ourselves.Previously read January 29, 2009.
i read this as a kid and should reread it as an adult. most books for kids aren't nearly so sinister.
Really great book to read during fall.
A possessed cat causes lots of bad things to happen. TOTALLY creepy.
Wow! This one just about killed me. It’s very sad/a little disturbing and not for everyone probably, but everything about it was excellent: the writing, the psychological insight, the plotting. Reminded me a little of Shirley Jackson. Just masterful.
