https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/95226.Colony
For me, this is without a doubt Siddons' best book . I have re-read it twice now, and still enjoy every page. Highly recommended for exquisite descriptions of the coastal area of Maine, for a detailing of the privileged lives of those summering in that area and their relationship to the people who live in the town all year, and mostly for the wonderful story of Maude Chambliss and her family.
It's definitely pulpy and soap-opera-ish in places (there was one scene where Maude shoots a German spy who had washed ashore from a U-boat or some shit and invaded her home and honestly it's hilariously ridiculous).
Also the snobby maneuverings of WASP summer vacationers are not nearly as interesting or poignant as Siddons wants them to be, and the story does tend to drag on.
The book definitely would have been better if it was about two hundred pages shorter.That said, it was entertaining and held my interest well until the last third of the book, so if you just want something kind of dramatic but still well written, this ain't a bad one.
3.5 stars. Trying to find an author like Rosamunde Pilcher but no one ever measures up. This was a good soap opera but a bit unsatisfying. At 500 pages it covers a lot of ground (time and characters), and you only get to know some of the characters very superficially. It’s also too melodramatic at points. But it was easy and fun to read, and that is what I was in the mood for!
Loved it.I've read on my Nook for years, but I have a hard cover copy of this book and I honestly think there is no better way to read Anne Rivers Siddons than an actual physical book with yellowed pages and a glass of Merlot..
I find it hard to articulate exactly what I like so much about Anne Rivers Siddons, and Colony in particular, but I do know it all has to do with the style of writing and the realness of the words and characters and just the timelessness of it all.
My all time favorite book!
The author's writing resonates with me.
I feel myself immersed in the stories and they become part of me.
The writing just flows for me.
I love the sea and she captures it so vividly - the smell, the quality of the light on the water, the sounds, and the feel of the air.The story line begins with an outsider drawn into a different world, where she assimilates, yet keeps her spirit.
I have read the book several times, and it has a featured spot on my bookshelf.
I listened to it on Books on Tape.
I love it.
One of my favorite books ever. Details the lives of a Boston family through 3 generations, anchored around their summer home at The Colony, a tight knit retreat in Maine founded by their family and many of their upper-echelon peers. Maude, the central character, is a girl from Charleston, South Carolina who marries into the family and struggles to find her place in a vastly different environment and family dynamic.Siddons has had many successes at writing the nuance of relationships, but for me the settings and characters of this particular novel are her best and resonate the most with me.
On one hand, I liked the descriptions and was really able to feel I was in Maine on a vacation.
On the other hand, it was a place I'm not sure I wanted to be.
I thought that it was good in that it didn't gloss over the terrible road bad choices can take someone on - but it also made me sad that the characters in the novel kept taking such pride in their "inner strength" when humility might have been the better direction.
They also seemed to equate atheism with strength and I don't equate those things at all.
Read this in college and honestly, the characters have stayed with me throughout my life. A bit graphic at times, but the plot is truly spellbinding and you can't stop till you reach the (bitter? happy? I won't tell!) end. Love the way Siddons throws in twists you can't see coming. This is one of the few books I re-read periodically.
This is definitely a "beach read"!
If you're not reading it on a beach, you'll be on one, anyway, through the imagery presented in the book!
The story follows the lives of the families; their joys, heartaches, bitterness, triumphs.
There is enough drama in this story to qualify it as the book version of a "soap opera"; although a much more delightful one!
I have read this book 3 times, cover-to-cover, and I enjoyed it just as much, the third time, as I did the first.
The only book I've ever read that remotely reminded me of my summer compound - Camp Randolph - in Vt. The matriarchs rule and the sense of community endures at a time when we no longer live down the street from our grandparents.
During our summer stays (my mother grew up here, I grew up here, my kids grew up here) in this magical place where you catch fireflies for fun and stay outdoors from sun up to the most beautiful sunsets on the planet.
This book is rich with memorable characters as they span nearly 70 years filled with love, heartache, tradition, and complicated relationships in a beautiful setting - searching for peace?
Aren't we all...
Re-reading this for about the sixth time...definitely satisfying my need for the perfect summer read. I think Siddons is great--such a happy facade in her protagnoists, but there is always some intrigue and deception happening on the inside. Her books never get old and are favorites to re-read.
I go back and read this every few years. I can just put myself there on the coast of Maine.
I have to be in the mood for a Rivers-Siddons book and can't read two in a row.
But, when I am in the mood, I love it.
I can actually go to "Retreat" colony in my mind now, thanks to her - and it is a place of sanctuary.The beginning of this 600 page book is hard to get into at first.
The beginning doesn't even particularly make sense (and can't, really.
Siddons is doing this on purpose.) I had to go back partway through the book and read the start again and then the lightbulb came on.
The prose here can be dense, particularly at the beginning when Siddons spends a lot of time describing houses and streets and swamps and beaches and cliffs. She's not bad at description -- there's a solid late-twentieth-century occasionally-literary middlebrow quality to her writing -- but the first fifty or so pages felt like a slog. Once it starts getting soapy, though, it's hard to put down; it's a nearly perfect beach read. So much drama for one family! Ultimately all those descriptions paid off, because I have a very vivid picture of Retreat, the characters' summer "colony," in my mind.
AudiobookThank goodness this was abridged! So melodramatic. And the granddaughter Darcy, why give it up when she knows what horrible things will happen? So therefore, I thought at the end of the book, "They're all screwed." Not a nice way to think of what is going to happen next. 2-1/2 stars
My high school English teacher gave me this book to read - and I loved it. I think it is Anne Rivers Siddons masterpiece.
I read all the time, but; however, only once in a while do I encounter the triple combination of an author with a superb gift, or well-crafted talent (call it whatever you wnt) for storytelling, a captivating story and a phenomenal cast of characters that give that deeply savored enjoyment of what I call "a triple chocolate brownie" reading experience.
The flavor and texture of true pleasure, true enjoyment and satisfaction stay with you for a long, as you read and enjoy other good books, but look forward with great anticipation for the next opportunity for a "triple chocolate brownie" book to come your way.
I've read this book almost every summer for the last 20 or so years.
I don't usually read books a 2nd time, much less 15 or so but ARS writes so beautifully about nature, surroundings, Maine, family, love, friendship, motherhood etc....that I just get lost and find something new every time I read it.
Sure, it's a bit soap opera'ish but the main character Maude Chambliss is a hero to me....the summer time spent with family at the colony of Retreat and all the characters that you hear about year after year are so endearing.
Truly one of my favorite books...
Es mayormente atrapante aunque muy dramático (rozando mucho la telenovela a veces), y para ser una historia tan centrada en las acciones de los otros personajes se llega a saber muy poco de ellos.
Van y vienen sin que los lleguemos a conocer realmente, y sólo queda aceptar la opinión –a veces bastante escueta– que le merecen a la narradora.En la última parte se alarga bastante, creo que con la mitad de las páginas hubiera estado bien.
(hide spoiler)]Le hubiera puesto menos nota pero me gustó el último capítulo (aunque sospechaba lo que revela), especialmente los sutiles párrafos finales.
Maude Gascoigne is nineteen and fresh from the outskirts of Charleston, South Carolina when her new husband, Peter Chambliss, takes her home for the summer to his family's vacation cottage in an exclusive enclave populated by the East Coast privileged.
The reader rides the coattails of Maude Chambliss as she finds her footing in Retreat and grows into a woman who is chatelaine of her own branch of the Chambliss family, much to her mother in law's chagrin.
Maude Gascoigne from Charleston, SC marries Peter Chambliss, son of a Boston family who has always spent summers at Retreat, a wealthy summer colony in Maine.
As a bride, Maude feels intimidated by her mother in law Hannah, and critical of the philosophy of life held by the women of Retreat, that all is done so that their husbands can come and enjoy the sailing, tennis, and relaxation.
The last quarter of the book is told by Darcy Chambliss O'Ryan, Maude's granddaughter, as she spends a summer at Retreat as a grown woman recuperating from a stay in the hospital for psychological problems, and reminisces about her summers spent there as a child.
I read this book while on vacation in Northern Michigan at my husband's family cottage on a small lake.
His mother and grandmother were there for most of our vacations there and Colony immediately struck a nerve with me.
Like Maude I often felt that I loved that cottage and it's history even more than my husband, who grew up there.
But Anne Rivers Siddons always pulls me back to her rich characters and "real" relationships.
This was my first Anne Rivers Siddons book, and I have read everything she's written since then.
When Maude Chambliss first arrives at Retreat, the seasonal home of her husband's aristocratic family, she is a nineteen year old fresh faced bride direct from South Carolina convinced that she will never fit in with everyone.
As time goes by, Maude falls in love with the colony and the people who live there.There is Maude's husband, Peter, consumed with a darkness of spirit; her adored but dangerously fragile children; her domineering mother-in-law, who teaches Maude that it is the women of the colony who possess the strength to keep it intact and Micah Willis, a Maine native who turns out to be Maude's truest friend.I loved this story and give it an A+!
Although this was heavy and dark at times, I really enjoyed reading this book.
Siddons does a phenomenal job developing the characters and making me feel as if I had been plopped down right into the story along with them.
My only complaint is that I wish there had been just a little more light in the story to help balance out the dark a bit.
I felt overwhelmed by it at times and would have to take a break from reading.
But even then, the heaviness was worth it, to spend time with the characters and to watch their lives unfold.
It's a love story that progresses over many decades while the main characters marry and try to raise a family, each summer being spent in the colony, a town in Maine aptly named Retreat.
Retreat soothes those who come, but also has the gossipy old bitties found in most small towns.
After a while the characters have endured such tragedies in their lives, it really seemed like Peyton Place for a while and I'm glad that was only temporary.
Siddon's characters are described and developed so well, and as always you can picture everyone and everything like a movie playing in your head.
This is one of her larger books - which means there is a ton of stuff going on wrapped in the pages of this novel.
The story starts when the children are young and proceeds to take you through the better part of what seems to be 20 years.
I enjoy a good family drama, but this novel unfolds a drama on every page and about midway through, I was exhausted.
I am rating it with three starts because after a bit I lost interest and on the down hill slope, I had to force myself to finish the book.
One of my favorite books by this author. Family dynamics are dissected and put on display for all to see here. What happens when a child and mother don't bond. How do families encompass love and hate at the same time. How do they cope with tragedy? Joy? How do the generations intermingle and affect one another?Perfectly wonderful book. Easy to fall into like a pool book except this is absolutely literature.
A great piece of small town literature that weaves through generations. The book shows the power of women in "the Colony" and how they retain it, even though it appears to be the men who are so important. Love and true love are woven throughout. The highs in the story were great and the lows were so low that I was actually sad. And typical Anne Rivers Siddons - there are a few surprises at the end.
all time favorite book - LOVED the characters - I love the way Ms. Siddons makes you GASP!! I have read this book twice - maybe three times.I finished this book for the third time and enjoyed every single page. This is my favorite ARS. And I've read them all. I keep coming back to this one. And she made me GASP several times again.
I enjoyed this collection of anecdotes and events, but I felt the characters were hard to keep straight. Too many names/characters were not well developed and I found myself struggling to follow the story at times.
