https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356102.Gold
A ripping yarn that tackles the bio of an interesting 19th century character in a fictional format.I am writing this to remind myself to write a full review when I am back home at a real keyboard and not on this goddamned iPad hunt-and-peck-a-thon.

(view spoiler)[داستان مرد فقیر و بلندپروازی که به کالیفرنیا میرود و به ثروتمندترین مرد کشور تبدیل میشود و بر روی تیول او شهرهایی مختلفی از جمله سانفرانسیسکو بنا میشوند، و با پیدا شدن طلا و هجوم مردم و کارکنان خودش برای استخراج طلا در زمینهایش به یکباره امپراطوری عظیمش درهم میشکند و تلاش دوباره او برای بازپس گیری اموالش بی نتیجه میماند"کشف طلا مرا به خاک سیاه نشاند" (hide spoiler)]داستان خطی و ساده و نه چندان عمیق!
Cendrars is even more marvellous than Sutter, so check out his novels.
Cendrars is a skilled observer of lives led to the fullest and like all his works - the possibilities of human achievement are the central concern here.
I think it's fair to find some fault with Cendrars' "macho" concerns but there's nothing overtly offensive if you're willing to accept some anachronistic attitude that isn't inconsistent with most of his other works, To The End of the World being an obvious and fairly reactionary deviation.I'm not sure how I would feel about Cendrars if I didn't consider Gance one of the best film makers to ever stand behind a camera.
L'histoire tragique et magnifique du général suter, bâtisseur de la californie ruiné par la découvert d'Or sur son territoire. Malheureusement le grand écart tenté par Cendrars déçoit : voulant rester factuel, l'histoire est contée la plupart du temps assez sèchement, tandis que par moments l'auteur se prend d'envolées lyriques sur certains points de l'histoire d'un personnage que l'on a finalement l'impression de n'avoir pu connaître qu'à peine.
Just re-read this and love the story. Means a lot more now that I know the area a lot better.I'd love to read an annotated version of this book, detailed with more history, images, references, etc.
This is one of the earliest attempts at Historical Fiction that I'm aware of, as it takes the life of the real John Augustus Sutter, a pioneer in California and the discoverer of gold that led to the famed Gold Rush of '49.
Cendrars portrays Sutter's life as more tragic than it actually was as a way to strengthen the themes of the novel centered around fate, justice, and the futility of fighting against the first or for the latter.
By the time California is part of the U.S., Sutter is on the verge of becoming the richest man in the world...and then gold is discovered on his vast properties.
Le jeune Blaise Cendrars fut subjugué par l'histoire de Johann Suter, un suisse allemand qui trouva fortune en Amérique au milieu du XIXe siècle avant de finir sans le sou.
Devenu riche à millions en quelques années, propriétaire d'un immense domaine foncier, il fut complètement ruiné par la découverte sur ses terres des premiers gisements d'or californien qui allaient déclencher la ruée vers l'or.
Job des temps modernes.Le vrai mystère est de savoir pourquoi Cendrars fut fasciné au point d'écrire ce court roman ?
Etait-ce la fin tragique ?
Car la vrai richesse de ce livre est ce mystère.
Die Geschichte des Kaisers von Kalifornien. Schnörkellos erzählt. Faszinierend.
Blaise Cendrars was always fascinated with the life and adventures of John Augustus Sutter, traveller, cheater, crook, entrepreneur, pioneer.
Sutter fled Switzerland to escape creditors leaving wife and kids behind and ended up in New York.
From there he worked his way through Missouri and decided to venture to the West, at a time when only few intrepid travellers had risked life and limb through the natives’ territory.
Mind you, his wife and kids may have been less excited by Sutter's exploits throughout their lives, but there you go.
Sutter devoted the rest of his life on law suits to claim compensation from everybody and their dogs.
خب،کتاب درباره ژنرال یوهان آگوست سوتره که به صورت داستانی و در قالب مخلوط تاریخ و داستان،زندگی این ش

Un texte frappant sur une histoire qui l'était déjà beaucoup ; la prose n'a guère vieilli, on sent une influence très forte sur nos auteurs contemporains. La lecture de la préface (après celle du roman, bien sûr) donne à voir les libertés que Cendrars a pris avec la biographie de Sutter pour en faire le mythe Suter. C'est une légende, donc les personnages sont dessinés comme de très loin, à peine plus que des silhouettes de conte ; pas ce que je préfère, mais les qualités littéraires restent indéniables.Prêté par A.
A unique reading experience. You sit shotgun in the author's muscle-car narrative, barreling along highway of Sutter's life which stretches across Europe, Middle America, Panama, the South Pacific,and finally into the frontier of San Francisco Bay and the Sacramento Valley. Cendrars imagines a life for Sutter that is like a composite of Jack London, JD Rockefeller, Citizen Kane, and Vito Corleone; fortunes made and lost, kingdoms built and razed, family elevated and cut-down, spirits set sail and ultimately sunk. All in 128 pages.
It was just awesome! I've loved this story even if it has a dramatic end. It's the true story of the general Johann August Sutter when he came to the USA where he started a new business and then became rich. Unfortunately, he found mines of gold in his wide farms in California, which ruin his fortune... I'm not fond of drama, but this true story, besides being a true one, shows how determination and self-confident can make a wealth starting from nothing.
prava knjiga za pustolovnjake!cendrar je chovek rasplamsane mashte koji svoje rechi koristi na najsavrsheniji nachin da opishe dozhivljaje, predele & ljudske sudbine za koje nikada necemo saznati da li ih je zaista prozhiveo, proputovao & susreo ili ih je svojom fantastichnom sposobnoshcu izmashtao tako da postanu stvarne.zlato & pokoja istinita pricha ostavile su me bez daha, dok me je poneka *manji broj* uspavala &umorila..zato 4 zvezdice umesto 5 (:
John Augustus Sutter is a whirlwind of man who emigrates/flees from Europe to make his fortune in America only to be swallowed whole in the hurricane that is the Gold Rush of 1848. A miracle of compression and driving narrative, this is one of the best historical novels I've ever read. "Gold. Gold. Who wants gold?"
one couldn't make up a character like Blaise Cendrars if he wasn't already a major figure in French 20th Century literature. This one-arm natural genius wrote essays, poetry (my favorite!) and novels. "Gold" is sort of a historical novel that is often hysterical. But how far can this man's imagination go. Superb author and one should collect all his works.
L'Or raconte l'histoire d'un grand homme qui malgré ses capacités se trouve dépassé par des événements hors de son controle. Le roman lit comme un dégringolade. Malgré le brio de l'auteur L'Or m'a laissé froid. Le chef d'oeuvre de Cendrars qu'il faut absolument lire c'est Moravagine.
fast, fun, furious pace following the adventures of a swiss immigrant in the 1800's america. like a good tale told at the bar, details stripped, characters simple, plot complex. short, sweet, surprisingly touching.
Il allait devenir l'homme le plus riche de Californie, des Etats-Unis, du monde entier..!Mais l'or l'a ruiné.Ce livre retrace la vie et la tragédie d'un homme qui a tout perdu face à l'injustice du destin et la cupidité des hommes.En effet l'enfer ne peut être que les autres.
Super brief account of this man's life. Fast-paced, and glossing over everything, like a 126-page string of news briefs, letting only the grand arcs tell the story. I read it in about 4 hours over 2 days, and I don't think of myself as a fast reader. What a weird book.
"C'est là qu'il disparaît... Au pays on n'entend plus parler de lui et sa femme reste quatorze ans sans avoir de ses nouvelles. Et tout à coup son nom est prononcé avec étonnement dans le monde entier."Extraordinary novel
Pretty cool story about a guy being ruined by the discovery of gold. How ironic
La biographie (romancée?) du général Sutter, aventurier héroïque dont le destin est ruiné par la découverte de l'or sur ses terres. Bien écrit, très agréable
Thin book. Nice read. Unmemorable.
Rise and fall of empires can be shown within this book.
recommended by Sebastien Doubinsky
L'Or door Blaise Cendrars in het frans
