https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254990.Sinners
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestI'm currently in the process of cleaning out my Kindle and I have a whole bunch of vintage goodies on there that I snagged for free when they were first being released on Kindle. Jackie Collins was for the 70s and 80s what trashy new adult erotica authors are for the here and now. She would write smutty, unapologetically trashy books about trash human beings and people would buy that trash and thank her, and she in turn would thank them by
She would write smutty, unapologetically trashy books about trash human beings and people would buy that trash and thank her, and she in turn would thank them by writing more.I just read LUCKY, which was about the daughter of an ex-mafiosi cum socialite and her glittery, scuzzy lifestyle as she navigated things like love, success, and organized (and not-so-organized) crime in the 1980s.
Many of these plotlines were mirrored in LUCKY, but since this is a shorter book, and there's more people doing these things, it feels much more icky and noticeable as a result.Sunday is an emerging starlet who gets her first taste of fame when she tells off her sexist producer and seeks her own way.
Well, this was a blast from the past.
Back when I first started reading novels, Jackie Collins was my favorite go to author.
This is one of her earlier works and brings back memories!
This one was set in Hollywood and followed the lives of different individuals in the entertainment industry.
It definitely is dated, but also relevant with all the #metoo issues we have today.
I know I would have rated this 5 stars when I first read it in the '80's, but today I would rate it 3 stars, so I will give it a rating of 4.
Typical Jackie Collins enjoyable smut. A little heavy on the rape and racism for my taste, I prefer newer stuff but enjoyable enough.
Utter guilty pleasure trash. I actually wrote a book report on this in 8th grade. I was trying to shock my teacher. I can't believe my parents let me read this shit when I was 12.
Jackie Collins always did no wrong. Enough said.
95 - 2018
This book started off pretty well. Lots of celebrity sex and sneak peaks into Hollywood, which is what you expect from a Jackie Collins novel. However, that quickly became boring and the amount d violence against nearly every female character in the book is staggering. Women are unable to resolve situations without violence and can only be rescued by men. I know this was written in the early 70s but it's still difficult to stomach.
Classic Jackie!It's definitely classic Jackie...a quick read layered with shock and sass. However I felt like the character stories were underdeveloped and that the story was rushed ... not her best but a decent read nonetheless.
review to follow
Rich and beautiful people, Jackie Collins bares all their secrets.✨ Glittering premiers, dazzling movie sets, fabulous 🎊 parties, love nests, scattered over Malibu and Beverly Hills.Behind closed 🚪 doors of the rich and famous was a jungle full of greed, ambition, love and danger, where survival is all and innocence is a role nobody plays.
for long.The main characters Charlie Brick and Sunday Simmons, their romance was one match, that would turn heads, it was a shame they ended together in the last chapter.Written in 1971, Jackie Collins, was scandalous, especially reading jit in 2018 an eye opener, and a total page turner, l could not put it down.It’s 70s at its best.Love 💕💖 Jackie Collins.
The legend lives on.
This is a terrible book. My first and last Jackie Collins book.I should have stopped reading early on when one character was referred to as part South American nationality and part French nationality. If the author and editor didn't care that she referred to South America as a nation, I should have known the book would be awful. It was dreadful. The characters weren't likable. The plot was weak. It was boring. There was nothing I liked about this book.
It was the most X-rated book I've ever read and one with the most disgusting list of characters I've ever met! Herbert Jefferson was so gross I felt like I could murder him from beyond the pages! Dindi Sydne was so bitchy and slutty I could have slapped her until my hands fell off! Natalie Allen and Thames Mason were such shallow dumb blondes. And don't get me started on the rest like Clay Allen, Steve Magnum and Claude Hussan. Oh god. I need to wash my brains out with more docile plots now.
I usually absolutely love Jackie Collin books but this one just didn't do it for me. I feel like it was really slow paced and nothing really full exciting or interesting happened. And I feel there was a lot of jumping from relationship to relationship in this book.
A run of the mill trashy thriller from Jackie Collins. A must read for all adolescents and grown-ups who fondly reminisce their adolescence. Oh.. what delightfully sinful lives those Hollywood guys lead...sigh...
Too many POV, I got lost in The Who is who and what are they doing. I can NEVER get that time back and won’t read any of her books again just to avoid this! I like raunchy but this was just stupid! Go slap yourself for this book!
Really boring and stupid. Had to read until the end for something interesting in this story and "grand finale" wasn't so grand.
What can I say? It's Jackie Collins. Nobody does it better.
Good book.
EntertainingEntertaining but predictable. I would suggest this book of you want a quick read and then be able to forget.
Ja jednostavno volim kako ova zena piše. Njen stil je lagan i zanimljiv i kad piše o obicnim stvarima. Dijalozi su odlicni. Ceo roman kulminira na kraju u nekoliko strana nema puno akcije ali dijalozi vade stvar i taj njen stil.
She's probably one of my favourite Jackie Collins heroines, and I wish that her book was more memorable.Charlie I was less sure about - while he amused me, he also felt like one of those characters who makes a lot of his own problems, and people like that drive me mad.I wish I could write a better review of the book, but I can't unless I read it again, and that's just not going to happen.
Aldatmalar, sırlar, karmaşık ilişkiler, skandallar herşey var.Jackie'nin her yazdığı okunur ama kendi standartlarına göre yine biraz vasat buldum kitabı:) (view spoiler)[Hollywood'a gelerek kariyerinde yükselmeye çalışan bir oyuncu Sunday, karısından boşanmış ama bunu kabullenemeyen komedi filmlerinin yıldız Charlie etrafında dönüyor kitap genellikle ve onların çevresinde dönen çarpık ilişkileri anlatıyor..
Birde sapığımız var kendini tatmin ettikten sonra iğrenç mektuplar yazan..
Okurken artık şaşmıyorum ama en sinirlendiğim bölüm şu oldu kızımızın sevgilisi yönetmen ve film çekiyorlar.
filmde tecavüz sahnesi var gerçekçi olsun diye!
Sonuda anlamlıydı aslında sapığımız yakalanıyor Charlie ve Sunday birlikteliye başlıyor ama bu sapıklar bitmez biri gider biri gelir mesajı iyiydi  (hide spoiler)]
This review contains SPOILERSI couldn't even finish this book.
It was terrible.
I know it was written in the 70's and things have changed since then, but I love Jackie Collins for her tough women characters and the fact that the women in this book are just there for the men's sexual pleasure is dissapointing.
I'm glad that I waited until I read more of her books before attempting this one as i'm not sure i would have read more if i had read (or attempted to read) this one first.
I'm really dissapointed in this book.
Sunday is the worst female lead ever! No one is that stupid! To allow herself to be violated time and time again and never go to the police? She's repeatedly rape and just thinks ' oh well '. Then to date the man than breaks into her place and rapes her. Thinking might as well. Stupid bitch. Charlie is a complete waste of a character and is so annoying! The book jumps around from character to character so much it's frustrating. This is no Chances which is one of my all time favourite book.
I liked this but I like Jackie Collins - people either do or don't...I think her older books are usually better than the newer ones and I enjoyed this. A great bath-time read in the winter or beach read in the summer:)This was written before I was even born but it doesn't seem dated overall and it thankfully lacks the aggressive 'girl-power' tone that comes into her later books.Lots of money, bed-hopping and drama and of course, the worthy characters find each other in the end and live happily ever after. Sort of.
It is amazing how much times have changed. Sending telegrams to congratulate your friend on an engagement. Nudity clauses in acting contracts. Sleeping your way to the top in Hollywood. And leaving it all behind, once you've met the right man. I can see how this would have been escapist entertainment in the 70s, but the women's roles, and the cliches, and the gender dynamics were very foreign to me as it was written before I was born. It was entertaining like a Jackie Collins book, but surprisingly dark when considering the attitudes and descriptions of the women.
Well, I read jackie's book only to get some pleasure which I don't find in any other book.
The first book I read of hers was The World is full of divorced woman which depicts lots of sex, boobies & hardly any story which I like but don't know after that her book contains little sex & more trash story which I hate.
She knows hollywood but she can't frame it in her books.
Divorce, Sex, Boobs, Break-Ups, Marriages & Beers are all in her books.
Though, I don't read the whole book but I'll definitely will buy her other books only to get some pleasure.
I love this book because it's so dramatic, something I'll never experience in my life. I love the plot, I love how the characters are portrayed and it resembles the actual undisclosed celebrity life that we're always so curious about. I love the character Sunday the most as she's very different from the other female characters in the book. I deducted one star from my rating because there were several grammatical errors that irked me
Wow this was somewhat of a disturbing book. Especially near the end. I had a hard time keeping some of the characters straight with how entwined they have but was still a good book. Just disturbing to read some of the thoughts from the characters.
Awful book filled with awful people.
