https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/830784.The_Class
It's more mind-boggling than Jodi Picoult's, more thrilling than John Grisham's, more intriguing than Dan Brown's, more magical than J.K. Rowling's, more better written than a Pulitzer's, more precise than a history book and more inspirational, motivational and life-changing than Og Mandino's.The novel spreads into discreet lives of Harvard Class '58.
Reading this book arouses a sense of envy to Harvard students.
What can you say about a novel by Erich Segal?
I read it only because I knew that one character writes a musical version of a portion of "Ulysses." His story is but one of many threads in the novel, but I'm glad that I read it.
The class in question is the Harvard class of 1958 (Segal's own class ...
Most interesting: the tale of the Jewish class member character whose parents had assimilated so thoroughly that he knew nothing of his heritage; he discovers it, to results that come closest to good writing.
Have you ever read a book that has the undefined power to take you through a journey even when you know that you are not a part of the theme but still feel the happiness, agony, frustration that the characters go through?
That is what makes this work special, yet awesome and that is what you call the class in real sense.Written about The Harvard class of 1958 (though fictional), Erich’s story circumscribes around the lives of five main characters who enter Harvard as children and exit as men who defy all the obstacles to become the heroes of the class of 1958.
Определено не е моята книга тази - не ми допадна!
Изчетох всички близо 600 страници, но така и не ми стана ясно защо е написана?!
За да ни покаже че животът никак не е розов, или колко е щастлива младостта, или колко са готини годините в университета, или че каквото и да се гради накрая съдбата ни изиграва...???
Животът им е разгледан поотделно дори с незначителните подробности, но толкова хаотично.
Споменати са толкова много действително съществуващи лица и събития, че в един момент не се знае дадения откъс дали реално се е случил или е плод на авторското въображение.
Oh My !!! This is one of the most powerful books that I've ever read.. You never know what you will encounter in your life. Ups and downs.. Success, failures and sacrifices.. Love and Cheat.. All connected.. I never wanted this one to end. After the last page, I just hugged it. :')
With this book, I first felt how it was to miss the characters. They were cast in a way that was almost factual, like they were people I knew who had become a part of my life. Maybe that was why I felt a longing for them afterward.
It a very emotional and romantic story of students of Harvard university and it traces there journey from the class to big bad world and how they cope. must read.
A wonderful story that takes you through the lives of five different characters and makes you attached to them.
It shows the different turns that one's life can take.
It makes you feel sad seeing most of the characters end up the way they do, and makes you realize what you are today would not be how you would be tomorrow.
Nothing, success or failure, lasts forever.
Fame, power and money should not be the goals of life.
A life lived for oneself is without meaning and will not give one eternal happiness or satisfaction.A lot to take from the book!
The prototype for Daniel Rossi is Joseph Raposo - Harvard 1958 (the same year as Erich Segal's) graduate (see http://www.thecrimson.com/article/196...).Jason Gilbert and Ted Lambros carry some traits of Erich Segal's own persona.Andrew Eliot is WASP idealistic symbolic figure, whom Erich Segal admired in his young years(compare with Oliver from "Love Story").
Lo que parecía un simple tebeo resulta ser una apasionante crónica del contexto histórico de Estados Unidos a lo largo de 30 años, a través de la vida de 5 graduados en Harvard en el 58. Personajes muy bien caracterizados, historias reales y creíbles que permiten abordar temas como política exterior (Camboya, Vietnam, Israel-Palestina), la ambición académica, el éxito y la fama, el divorcio... Muy recomendable.
the story revolves on the life of 5 Harvard students and their life and career they pursue after they have received they degree. Five different personalities from different backgrounds and orientation who managed to be admitted at Harvard. The author was able to establish the uniqueness of each character and illustrates how they were able to reach their success – as each of them defines what success is.
The novel follows the life of five different people, from the time they enter Harvard as eager freshmen wanting to change the world, to their graduation anniversary 25 years later.
Personally, I read this at a very appropriate moment - I am currently in my third year of university, and seeing the stories of fresh graduates unfold before my eyes, showed me the various different life paths people take, and the dificulties encountered along the way.I found some motivation in the book.
I really, really, really want to get beyond the free sample of this book.
Too engaging!!!Done reading.
Erich Segal, if you ever read this, do tell me if Andrew Eliot got married to George Keller's ex-wife.Its pretty important to know so as to have that complete reading experience.
Only because I don't belong to the class of '58, I won't say that this book defines my life or rather how I want it to be.
But, it did come to this close *shows her thumb and forefinger while distancing from each other them for about a millimeter* *winks*.I recommend this book to whoever can read this review.
*winks again*.Ciao
Adding realism to the story by including events like the Vietnam War and the Middle East Conflict really helps one relate better to the loves and laughs of Andrew, Jason, George, Danny and Theodore.
One of the few drawbacks was that the ending could have been better, as I felt that a few things were left for imagination.
On the whole, this is must read for anyone who is looking for a good story, and my advise put be too read it with an open mind, rather than getting your expectations too high.
Ktoś zostanie pochwalony i poczuje dumę, komuś umrze ojciec i poczuje smutek - autor nam wszystko cierpliwie wytłumaczy, bez obaw, nikt nie zostanie z tyłu.Wydarzenia są takie, jak muszą być w sztampowej powieści - ktoś poświęci się karierze i żona od niego odejdzie, wygłaszając płomienną przemową w holu (potem bohater będzie patrzył na szczęśliwe rodziny i, jak wyjaśnia narrator, czuł smutek i tęsknotę), ktoś wstąpi do armii, więc oczywiście będzie chwacko żartował z towarzyszami broni aż do bohaterskiej śmierci w akcji, ktoś pojedna się z ojcem na łoży śmierci itp, itd.
Depicted a struggle in studying life: from being poor, having to find extra money to survive while studying and (as far as I can remember) eventually the main characters achieved what they wanted. Read the Indonesian translation long ago. Kept comparing the student life depicted in the novel with the one I had in the indonesian context. I always romanticized the one I didn't have. I was lucky that eventually I had the chance to experience a similar life depicted in the novel with all the struggle to survive, well planned studying and reading, etc.
Though I never traveled to America but I Certainly did graduated from Harvard...
All credit goes to Erich Segal....
The book is so moving that I still believe that it is the most engrossing and entertaining text I have ever read.The buildings and their stories ..Yale and Harvard and their rivalries ....Just by reading the book you become an integral part of it.
A great read ..really if you want to be the part of that class...take a deep div into the The Class...
Believe me if you want to graduate from Harvard...and that too without ever travelling to America...just read it...
"The Class" is truly class apart. the characterisations of each of the five Harvard alumni is so intricately done that you feel connected. Very complex issues addressed with each of the 5 members ranging from political to religious to marital to power struggles. All explicitly addressed for each member, one at a time, yet consecutively, through the years. Nothing, success or failure, lasts forever. Fame, power and money should not be the goals of life. A duly recommended book !!
Entertaining!! Childhood, life at Harvard ,pressures ambitions , relationships and profession . Our parents, people who touch our lives and people who leave our lives impact it in certain ways. A book that leaves us thinking. Studying in one of the best college, ambitions to reach the top and some do make it to powerful places.Still emptiness in personal lives! Who is a successful person ?
Yes its a good book, filled with lots of twists and turns. But being a classic, Erich has won my heart in writing such it so beautifully. You can enjoy his writing flair and his brilliance. At the same time I felt it dragging... and I cheated with a few pages. All in all, a good grasp for summer
Przyjemna, wielowątkowa lektura, przy której można się zarówno pośmiać, jak i zasmucić. Świetne kreacje bohaterów, w których z łatwością można odnaleźć samego siebie. To typ lektury, przy której dobrze się odpoczywa i odrywa od codziennych obowiązków. Polecam :)
Strong characters.. excellent message.. One sees the real picture of his life at the end and will be able to differentiate the real success and happiness with the smaller periodic achievements which were aimed at and thought to be the victories..
L’idea di fondo sarebbe interessante, personalmente mi attira molto, ma la scrittura è asettica e priva di alcun tentativo di introspezione. I personaggi sono totalmente privi di emotività, gli eventi si succedono in modo didascalico, e i dialoghi sono troppo scabri e superficiali
The theme of the book captivated me emotionally. The circle of life. After spending terrific four years in college, we take our separate paths and start a new journey, being ambitious and unaware of the future. After surviving twenty five years in the tough and unpredictable world, away from the safe cocoon, people come back to the same place. Because no matter how unfathomable changes we went through, our hearts always remain in that campus.
One of the most intriguing and gripping stories that I read post palace of illusions
Ketika sampai di novel ini dan membaca sinopsisnya di sampul bagian belakang, gua langsung teringat dengan novel-novel Jeffrey Archer yang seringkali menceritakan berbagai macam karakter tanpa menekankan salah satu yang menjadi tokoh utama.
“Wah, menarik nih…” adalah respon yang pertama kali gua keluarkan setelah membaca sinopsisnya, apalagi ditambah dengan cerita yang menurut gua bukan sekedar roman picisan (meminjam grup musik Dewa).Andrew Eliot, Daniel Rossi, Jason Gilbert, Theodore Lambros, dan George Keller, adalah karakter-karakter yang diceritakan sebagai mahasiswa S1 (bachelor) di Harvard University oleh Erich Segal sepanjang novel ini.
Setelah membaca novel-novel Jeffrey Archer yang memiliki tipe serupa, kesulitan untuk memahami cerita yang terbagi dalam lima karakter utama bukan lagi menjadi masalah.
I never thought about Erich Segal as a writer as I only thought of Love Story as a movie! This was such a good read. The book follows five men from their first day at Harvard through their 25th reunion. Each character is unique and represents a section of society. I felt very connected to each one even if I didn’t like them all. I look forward to now reading his other books. He is a talented author who knows how to weave an engaging story.
NO, they bully the supposed lessers, the comparative outsiders, of course!) and then the others who are bullied with a stick of conforming to the standards of redneck bully and his (it is his before it is hers) whims socially.One wonders if they realise they are falsifying the foundation of the nation they are bullying in the name of with every ill formed sentence they spew out at sight of someone far superior that is clearly not of their neighbourhood nor of one of their bosses'.
Lo boleh ga percaya, tapi semua tema itu bisa masuk secara wajar dalam satu buku.this book really hits my in!!Gw mengharap bisa mengintip apa yang mungkin terjadi pada diri gw sendiri lewat buku ini.
Dan, seperti halnya sang alkemis (the alchemist) i think this book was also tryin to <>say that, what we really try so hard to find, sometimes its already ours..Dampak terbesar dari buku ini yang gue rasakan, dengan caranya sendiri, Erich mempertanyakan tentang nilai (values) yang kita anut.
This is a third Segal's book I've read so far. As usual, Erich Segal defines life-storyteller into a his own genre.All of us know the "iceberg" theory, that the success is only a tip of millions struggling and sacrifices. In this book, Segal successfully bring the example how this concept is in an ordinary, yet extraordinary story.Five stars!
