https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/165081.The_Anxiety_of_Influence
People tend to only see him for his negative comments – which is a dire shame because he speaks much more about the things he likes – so that he has become the caricature of The Old White Man. He’s actually Jewish… and he is one of the most outspoken critics of what most people don’t even realize is “Academia” today.The most important thing I’ll take from The Anxiety of Influence is that Bloom has moved beyond reading literature in the framework of personal taste.
Every time I reread this, I become more dissatisfied with Bloom's central thesis about the poet's necessary "misprision" in order to clear the way for creative expression.
"Misreading," to me assumes a correct reading, and I've had it up to here with professorially mandated "correct" readings decades ago in college.
Age and experience has convinced me that every reader's engagement with a text is "correct" for that reader, the question is the ability to convey our ideas of the text.I also believe that all literature is a constant conversation, so in that sense there shouldn't be an anxiety of influence at all.That aside, the prologue to the new edition, basically a love letter to Shakespeare, is sheer pleasure to read.
Bloom is here an American Nietzschean ventriloquist speaking through the dummy of William Blake's corpse, a rhetorician almost as eloquent and just as evil as Milton's Satan.
''All modern schools believe that metaphor, or figurative language of any kind, is founded upon a pattern of error, whether you ascribe an element of will or intentionality to it, as I do in my belief that writers creatively misunderstand one another, or whether you ascribe it, as deconstructionists do, to the nature of language.
But when fallacy is universal, it doesn't seem to make much sense any more to talk about specific fallacies - affective, pathetic, intentional, or whatever.
They have vanished in the general fog of what might be called error.
"When he was 35, Harold Bloom fell into a deep depression, and in the midst of that depression he had a terrible nightmare that a giant winged creature was pressing down on his chest.
He woke up gasping for breath, and the next day he began writing a book that would become The Anxiety of Influence, in which he argues that all great writers are obsessed with breaking away from the great writers of the past.
The book made him famous, even though few people could understand it.
A year after it was published, Bloom reread it himself, and found that he couldn't understand it either."Thus far I am not understanding it either.
من أفضل الكتب فى النقد الأدبى ، الى جانب كتب رينيه ويليك .يتناول المشكلة الأزلية هى وجل الكاتب من أن يستبين فى كتاباته أثر كتاب آخرين تأثر بهم وذلك على الرغم من استحالة أن يكتب أحد من المؤلفين كتابا إلا بعد أن يهضم الكثير من أعمال السابقين عليه .
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U1Lzb...Amazingly dicky on several different levels, there is much to admire in the scope and amibitions underlying this theory of poetry. It might look old-school to the point of outdatedness, but it can still make any dedicated reader feel like they know way less then they should about the subject of their passion, which all things considered is always a great thing.
Os pontos feitos acerca deste assunto são defendidos por recurso à obra de Freud, pelo que o título não é um uso ilustrativo dos termos, no sentido em que podia ser metafórico: angústia e influência são ambos temas primordiais para a obra.Em primeiro lugar, influência aqui não serve de redução, o poema ou poeta que chegou primeiro calhou chegar primeiro por força quase histórica (à falta de melhor termo).
Influência, para Bloom, funciona de um modo retrógrado, não em termos da sua conceptualização, mas do seu movimento: os novos poemas actualizam ao porem em acto os sons, palavras, frases ou ideias de outros que o antecederam.
So this book came highly recommended, I'm interested in criticism, and generally I expected something challenging to read but at the same time illuminating.
It is, to be fair, very interesting, and it may well shed some light on the creative process; but while I find it obvious that yes, poets do influence one another, I can't really agree with the idea of misreadings, since I think that texts can provoke different responses (Roman Ingarden's places of indeterminacy come here to mind), and I found the thing rather difficult to read in general.(This is not, in itself, a bad thing.
It works to woo the ladies.
Only read the first chapter, "Clinamen or poetic misprision", for a course I'm taking.
I hate this book.Harold Bloom is an idiot.
I got introduced to Prof. Harold Bloom while watching Yale’s course on Literature and Critical Theory. I didn’t know how to feel about him and his theory of influence, but now that I’ve read his entire book in which he presented his theory in detail, I can say that It explained many things for me, and it changed the way I look to novels and poems that I find similar, some way or another, to another novel or poem.The most important lesson that I’ve learnt is, influence is not a bad thing. It is n
Harold Bloom while watching Yale’s course on Literature and Critical Theory.
I didn’t know how to feel about him and his theory of influence, but now that I’ve read his entire book in which he presented his theory in detail, I can say that It explained many things for me, and it changed the way I look to novels and poems that I find similar, some way or another, to another novel or poem.The most important lesson that I’ve learnt is, influence is not a bad thing.
Harold Bloom is my favorite literary critic so far.
I recommend reading his books.
bloom is so in love with shakespeare i kid you not
Ok let me say that Harold Bloom has an idea about poetry as being written from a place that is not uh..."of ones-self." That's not his wording.
Ok Bloom see's the innocence of poetry and attempts to identify the essence of poetic figures and ideas based on what he sees as the thread that runs through everything.
Poetic innocence implies that the Poet is doing precisely what he wants and doesn't think twice about the consequences.
I think that The Anxiety of Influence is an idea Harold Bloom uses to supplement his vision of direct influence across the generations of poets.
Also, as a writer, I will probably tend to be more critical of critics, resenting their critiques of what I do more than the attempts, either successful or failed, of fellow writers of fiction and poetry in their efforts at self-expression.
So, that said...Having heard capsulized versions of Bloom's argument here for years in Graduate school (particularly from John Freccero, who found it quite applicable to Dante's presentation of the pilgrim's relationship to the character of Virgil in Alighieri's Commedia) I was quite pleased to find a cheap second hand copy and to actually read the source of the many mere scholarly references and "see for myself," as it were.
I'll just let the professionals do the criticism:https://www.theguardian.com/books/200...I was once accused of being condescending by a previous colleague on Facebook.
This was quite … surprising, since I thought not exposing and mocking the American belief "my ignorance is as good as your knowledge" is already benevolent and modest enough.
Now, looking at Terry Eagleton, I realized that the viciousness of literature critics is simply too heady for the not-notoriously tender mathematician conscience and I've been hanging out with the verbally tough guys way too much.But they are out there.
And they are far more interesting than those who possess nothing strong enough to offend anyone, a.k.a "nice" people.And, oh, have I ever mentioned that tender colleague labeled himself a "poet"?
although this purports to be a general theory of poetry, i find it extremely limited in its scope.
bloom has insightful things to say, but they aren't as universally applicable as presented (nor will everyone agree about his judgements as to who actually constitutes a great poet).
if you are into freudian analysis and male anglo poetry, then this will probably be a 5-star read for you.
i hate to give bloom 2 stars, because it's a joy to watch his thought process unfold, but the narrowness of his vision here is distressing.(note: i read the first, not the second, edition)thoroughly useful, however, in terms of my thesis work.
Bloom's ideas about poetic influence aren't perfect, but they aren't as terrible as his detractors would lead you to believe.
I agree with the general theory of influence he puts forth, but his idealized conception of the literary canon and ignorance of the political, social and cultural contexts that inform the process of canonization are what bring the work down.
I usually encounter people too enmeshed in cultural warfare to actually write an objective review on Bloom - individuals who tend towards adverse reactions to relativism and "social-justice lit" (or whatever) will love him, those interested in post colonial, marginalized or transgressive writers will hate him.

One of those books in which the magisterial critic sits in judgement on the practices of poets and hands out the label of his approval, "Strong Poet" in this case, to whoever he considers most worthy. No matter how many times i reread this book it baffles me that it was so influential.
I didn't really get it. But this book did generate a pretty substantial vocabulary list.
Love this informative, well written work that makes you bend your mind to get out of that box you don't know you're in.
This was one of the more bizarrely inscrutable books I've ever picked up.
Orphism, for latecomers, reduces to a variety of sublimation, the truest of defenses against the anxiety of influence, and the one most impairing to the poetic self.
Hence Nietzche, lovingly recognizing in Socrates the first master of sublimation, found in Socrates also the destroyer of tragedy.
The whole book is like this - this is just a paragraph I picked at random (and the beginning of a chapter at that).
What's weird is that I read the summary of this book on Wikipedia and it makes the thesis inside seem crystal clear.
The short length of the book is highly deceptive because of the dense material.
In the end that doesn't keep one from forming an opinion on the overall parts of revisions that are explained in the book.
When he asserts that poets misinterpret one another, in a way his very work is open to much misinterpretation so that by not getting everything you too see firsthand the process of misprision at play withing yourself.In short for those who say it's silly and unfounded, I can see that in parts.
The central thesis of poetry as a product of intentionally misreading one's predecessors, is such an interesting idea and has so many applications, that I am grateful for the extended reflection, even if a lot of it went over my head.
The book could be three times as long if he were to provide a clear explanation of each text and author to which he refers, so the less-well-read reader is forced, at points, to take his word for it.
There's a lot of meat here, as well as a good number of reading suggestions.
Contém muitas referências sobre autores é por isso que convém conhecer os autores e as suas temáticas.
Isto porque, Bloom supõe que sabemos o que ele está a falar.
Infelizmente, algumas temáticas/conceitos que apresenta, ele só os enuncia e não os explica, pensando que estamos dentro da sua cabeça.
É interessante o modo como apresenta a Angústia, pois ela não tem que ver com o modo de escrever / estilo, mas com a força que um autor precursor tem sobre o posterior.
O poeta já morto adquire uma força tal que chega a assombrar o poeta posterior, no trabalho que realiza.
I just read the words "Poetic Father's coitus with the Muse," and I'm done.
I can no longer go on.I was really interested in the concept of this book, but it all fell apart for me in practice.
I don't think Harold Bloom wrote this book to discuss the anxiety of influence.
I think he wrote it to show off how much he knows about Romantic poets and his extensive collection of $20 words.Two Stars: This book was not good for me.
I can (probably) understand why someone else might like it, but I didn't.
I won't be recommending it to anyone.
at times totally inscrutable and requiring a wayyy heavier background in some poets than I had, found parts of the middle not super useful but the first chapter and last three make a lot of sense and are useful as an analytical frame beyond the realm of poetry imo. some of the freudian dreck is crap
A lot of people like to hate on Bloom, but they can't ignore his importance; this book is one of the books that is more easily disliked. If you want to read a more interesting Bloom work, go for The Invention of the Human.
