https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51789.Marriage_and_Morals
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این کتاب از 178 صفحه و 21 فصل تشکیل شده است... این ریویو را پیش از این برای عنوان <زناشویی و اخلاق> نیز نوشته بودم، که اینجا و برای عنوان <زناشوئی و اخلاق> نیز تکرار میکنمبه برخی از مطالبِ این کتاب در زیر اشاره میکنم و سپس در موردِ «زناشویی» و «رفتار با جنس زن» چند خطی مینویسم. چون این موضوع، بسیار مهم میباشد و دارایِ اهمیت است... سپاسگزارم که این متن را میخوانید... درود بر «برتراند راسل» و یادش در ذهن و وجودِ ما گرامی باددوستانِ عزیز، مهمترین مسائلی که «راسل» در این
این مردها و شوهرانِ بیشعور، کتابِ اخلاق را به خاکستر نشانده اند‎جالب است که همین موجوداتی که نامِ خود را «مَرد» نهاده اند، مدام لفظِ فاحشه را برایِ «جنسِ زن» بکار میبرند، در صورتیکه فاحشهٔ حقیقی مردی است که، در زندگیِ خود، از رابطهٔ جنسی با خر و بزغاله ها و بزمچه ها نیز حذر نمیکند، اما تصمیم دارد، فقط با دختری «باکره» ازدواج کند!!
این مردها و شوهرانِ بیشعور، کتابِ اخلاق را به خاکستر نشانده اندجالب است که همین موجوداتی که نامِ خود را «مَرد» نهاده اند، مدام لفظِ فاحشه را برایِ « جنسِ زن» بکار میبرند، در صورتیکه فاحشهٔ حقیقی مردی است که، در زندگیِ خود، از رابطهٔ جنسی با خر و بزغاله ها و بزمچه ها نیز حذر نمیکند، اما تصمیم دارد، فقط با دختری «باکره» ازدواج کند!!
Leave alone Sexual thoughts (and thoughts were all we can have), even mundane things like talking to friends (wasting time), eating non-veg/chocolates/etc, drinking or even staying up late nights were all frowned upon, and more often than not, done in great secrecy!And here we have Bertrand Russell questioning the very notions of morality regarding sex and marriage and the relevance of males in the society in the future!
(Do read the eye popping article – End of Men by Hanna Rosin - http://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/a...)But the greatest achievement of this book is not, that it is able to predict some trends, but that it dares to question what the prevailing Truth was at that time based solely on rational thought.
برتراند راسل خیلی سال پیش این رو نوشته اما ، میبینم ملت و جامعه ما هنوز درگیر عقاید خرافی و مذهبی هستند ، اما همونطور که خود راسل در این کتاب نوشته بود : اگر علم قدمت و حرمتی پیدا کند شک نیست مانند مذهب زندگی ما را در پنجه خواهد گرفت.
ترس از عشق ، ترس از زندگی است و کسانی که از زندگی بیم دارند هم اکنون سه چهارم زندگی را از دست داده اند.
خیلی خوب بودفقط میتونم بگم یک کتاب راهنمای کامل بود. واقعن کامل و جامع در زمینۀ زناشویی
The book starts with a historical discussion on Matriarchal and Patriarchal societies where first the biological father was not clear and children liked by the fathers (the man who lived with the women) and possessed by their mothers and uncles.
Then Patriarchal societies came and combined with religions, women were restricted to assure that children had only one biological father.
He believed that women in centuries were misunderstood by men and excluded from cultures and now it's their right to express their true selves.In future chapters he talked about love, marriage, prostitution and the role of government in families especially fathers' duties.I have to say this book-- more than teaching new points to me-- showed me how pacifist philosopher Russell was.
کتابی بسیار کامل و جامع در مورد اخلاقیات جنسی ای که توی جوامع مدرن و امروزی لازمه رعایت کنیم.یادمه زمانی خوندمش که مدتی بود دیگه مذهبی نبودم اما باز هم خیلی حرفاش به نظرم تابو می اومد . فهمیدم اون موقع که حتی اگر مذهبی و سنتي هم نباشیم چه قدر گاهی نفس کشیدن در فضای سنتی میتونه روی افکار و عقاید ما تاثیر بذاره و چه قدر باید مطالعه کنیم و بدونيم تا خودمون رو از چنگشون رها کنیم.
کاری که از یک منطقدان که بهش عمده زندگی اش رو صرف منطق و اصول بندی اون کرده بر می آید.با این همه این کتاب نتایج اشتباه قابل توجهی داره (و صد البته نتایج درست بسیار زیادی) و دلیلش نه نتیجه گیری اشتباه ، که گزاره های ناصادق هست.البته این اشتباه عجیبی نیست ، چون راسل این کتاب رو سالها پیش ، بر مبنای نظریات روانشناسی و ....
نوشته که صحت خیلی از اون نتایج ، در سالهای بعد رد شده و نظریات و فکت های جدیدی در روانشناسی بیان شده .
The man was one of the last Renaissance men, and this book, written in the late 1920's, addresses the same set of issues that present themselves to society today, many still unresolved.
It is particularly relevant today, when we are considering finally extending marriage rights to same sex partners (something he intentionally almost completely avoids), and / or otherwise changing the definition of the marriage relationship to separate the civil right from the religious custom.Like most everything I have read by Russell, this book is well researched, comprehensive, eye-opening.
I could be a model for conversational bravery.I love Bertrand Russell.
Marriage and Morals was terrible, but great fun!
Russell discusses his opinions on the then current state of marriage and on its future.
You may guess that I disliked the book because of the conclusions Russell draws.
However, his conclusions were the smaller factor in my dislike.
The larger factor is that Russell conveys the attitude that his arguments are so rational as to be indisputable.
He never examines the validity of his unstated assumptions, and he often makes leaps of logic that are incomprehensible.
From my point of view, that assumption, among many others, seems unfounded at best.
"Marriage is for women the commonest mode of livelihood, and the total amount of undesired sex endured by women is probably greater in marriage than in prostitution.” - ProstitutionHe nailed it and the fascinating part was he wrote this book in 1929.
where sexual ethics and sexual institutions have been determined by rational considerations." In this book he suggests that the system in vogue in Western civilization be amended by the application of rationality to sexual practices.
On page 96 Russell states that marriage need not “exclude other sex relations.” This upset many people.
He decries the irrational guilt, inhibitions, and taboos that are "embodied now in the spontaneous moral judgments of most of us." He prescribes sexual freedom as the remedy to prostitution.
His views on population seem outdated because the demographics have changed and contraceptive technology has not advanced as he thought it would.
A provocative book, whether or not you agree with his views.
Russell explains the main reasons of why the societies denigrate sex and gives some useful clues to educate children about sex and to prevent the making sex the fixed idea for them. We can say that some of the ideas of the author is not valid for today's society but his point of view for contemporary morals is admirable: "Its not about an individual's getting hold of oneself about sex (because animalistic sexual desires can be transformed into useful actions, especially via education) but getting hold of oneself about restricting others' freedom."
راسل در اين كتاب نگاهي متفاوت به ارتباطات جنسي، عشق، خانواده و زناشويي مي اندازد و با بررسي تاريخي بنيان خانواده و تاريخچه ي به وجود آمدن اخلاق جنسي نظريه اي جديد و متفاوت در مورد زناشويي ابراز مي كند. به شخصه بسيار از خواندن اين كتاب لذت بردم. لذتي كمي و بيش خودخواهانه كه من هم چقدر با راسل موافقم و كمي متاسف شدم كه چرا چيزي كه راسل سال ها پيش درك كرده بود هنوز تا اين حد ناشناخته مانده!
I am now convinced that Bertrand Russell can write about anything. This book is about more than the title suggests - it's a look at the past and future of sexual ethics and patriarchal society in general, as well as marriage in particular. Although some of the theories he cites are outdated (e.g. Freudian psychology), it is amazing how accurate some of his predictions turned out to be.
گویا کتاب در زمان انتشارش در سال 1929 به خاطر جسارتش بحث برانگیز بوده ولی میشود دید که با گذر زمان بسیاری از اصلاحاتی که راسل برای اخلاق زناشویی در این کتاب ارائه میدهد به تحقق پیوسته (در غرب لااقل) مانند تسهیل در طلاق، نگاه به ارتباط جنسی به عنوان امری طبیعی و نیازی مثبت و آوردنش به سطح آگاه جامعه، رابطه پیش از ازدواج، و بحث برانگیزتر از همه، امکان بر عهده گرفتن مسئولیت پدری و مادری در قبال فرزند هرچند والدین، شریک جنسی و عاطفی دیگری داشته باشند درحالت غیر ایدهآل البتهویژگی اصلی کتاب آوردن شواه

Η σεμνοτυφία των μεγάλων είναι το αποτέλεσμα της αισχρότητας των μικρών.Ό,τι διδαχτήκαμε με σύμπλεγμα,μυστήριο και κρυφά νοήματα συνδέθηκε με κάτι το απαράδεκτο,περίεργο,πονηρό.Λάθος διαπαιδαγώγηση,πολλά ταμπού,γάμος και ευτυχία σα να μην πέρασε μία μέρα:γεμάτοι μεσαιωνικές προκαταλήψεις-προλήψεις και φρενοβλαβιώσεις-ξεπνευματοποίηση και σήψη.
I can't claim to agree with all he says, but the process of re-thinking what is taken for granted is of paramount importance! This is an impressive example by one of the greatest thinkers of recent history.
Essential to the human.
With birth control and the right to vote, women were being liberated--yes, Russell uses the phrase "women's liberation" and in many ways was a first wave feminist along with his second wife, a prominent soffragette and birth control advocate.
Russell tears apart Christian ethics about marital morality, exposing its hypocrisies and contradictions through its rigid dogma of controlling women and inducing guilt about sex.
Russell argues that men's role in the family (as far as actual function is concerned) has been mostly to provide safety and protection to the child (since who knows what sort of violence and dangers a child in prehistoric times is exposed to), but that since has shown to be unnecessary due to the creation of a state and humanity generally living in safer times.
Russell argues that women are perfectly capable of raising a child on their own, as long as we can expand the role of the state to provide not just safety, but the required living conditions for the mother.
Wow, Bertrand Russel is a riot! This has a wonderful satirical bite, and works as an open inquiry. Despite his stated rationalist bias, he really is an enthusiastic proponent of love free from at least some assumptions about it. It is of course jarring when he reveals himself to have other assumptions or some sympathy for eugenics (only racial in the case of Blacks and Native Americans, the rest intellectual eugenics!) But really a little sad but impressive how much of his comments have either come to pass. Or we are still awaiting them to do so.
Russell's predictions were a little off, because some trends weren't readily apparent at the time he was writing... but his analysis of some of the problems that were plaguing Western society at the time was as precise as an autopsy, and his work remains relevant as many of those problems are still plaguing us today. It's a shame that his work isn't required reading in more schools.
Every time I read one of Russell's books I am assaulted by a strong feeling of regret that I didn't come across them sooner. Better late than never, as they say. This book is a sparkling companion to "The Conquest of Happiness".
Brilliant book, hard to believe this was written in 1929. This book is the perfect medicament for the disease that is the intensely repressed sexual tension rampant in the societies in the Indian sub-continent and the whole of the Muslim world.
If a person tells me he has been to the worst places I have no reason to judge him; but if he tells me it was his superior wisdom that enabled him to go there, then I know he is a fraud. Ludwig Wittgenstein
At first I thought he was an open-minded conservative, when he made observations of licentious youths and emancipated women going astray with the relaxation of religious and moral restraints in the 1900s, but as he spoke more about eugenics, and the state intervening to take over the role of father and mother, and the compartmentalization between sex and more deeply-rooted affection, I wonder more about his personal life (I have yet to read his life history) and his practices.The compartmentalization of things I particularly enjoyed.
2016 Türkiyesi hatta modern dünyası için bile çok ileri görüşlü bir kitap, bu 1930 yılında yazıldığını ancak 1-2 örnekte anlıyorsunuz.
Evliler için de belki geç değil.Bunu sevdim:'Tüm erkekler, yetkin bir düşünce yapısının karısını ihanete itebileceği korkusuyla tüm ciddi düşünce ve amaçları kendilerine saklamışlardır.
Cinsel ilişkide bulunmak için karşısındakini hoş tutması gerekmediği duygusunu bir alışkanlık haline getirir.
Ayrıca eğer genel ahlak kurallarını kabul ediyorsa, cinsel ilişkide bulunduğu tüm kadınları küçük görecektir.''Ancak günâh fikrinin çürüyüp dağılmasıyla kadınlar özgürlüklerini kazanmaya başladılar.''Romantik aşkın yaşamın sunduğu en şiddetli mutluluk kaynağı olduğuna inanıyorum.'
This is not easy reading, especially for those unused to Russell's style.
It requires a fair amount of background in English history and literature, particularly the Bible.
If you have a great deal of interest and a Google connection, though, all of the allusions and background can be discovered easily.
He gives an interesting, though very Russell-esque background to European ideas of the relations between men and women, the institution of marriage, and the responsibilities of parents.
My great challenge right now is seeing if I can make it accessible, understandable, and (hope upon hope) pleasurable for my students.
This book started out great. I found myself agreeing vigorously with ol' Bertie like I always do. Unfortunately, the late chapter on eugenics really detracts from the value of this book, and I found it quite shocking that someone whose writings and ideas I have admired so much could write that chapter. However, I still think this book is worth reading. Russell was way ahead of his time, and he makes many good arguments about the history and future of sex, open relationships, marriage, families, and morals.
