https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139237.The_Good_Shepherd
And when the weight of that absolute responsibility is combined with the emotions associated with duty and honor, the result is a person that is structured to endure the extremes of human existence for a worthwhile cause.The strength of The Good Shepard is that it highlights this type of person in terms of Commander George Krause.
This is one of my favorite WWII naval action novels, but it is an exhausting read, precisely because of how well I identify with the commander of the convoy, who goes without sleep for two or three days, and is so pressed with emergency after emergency that he hardly has time to go to the head.Structurally, the novel is divided into three chapters, a tiny "set the mood" thing, the actual novel, and a tiny epilog.
Don't bother with the opening or the ending, just read the actual novel, Chapter II.
Curiously, I am not giving this novel 5-stars precisely because of how well Forester writes here: The commander gets so exhausted and I identify so strongly with him that I get exhausted while reading it.@hg47
Forester's novel is on a par with Nicholas Monsarrat's "The Cruel Sea" and D.
Forester's central character is George Krause, an American destroyer commander in his mid-40s who is in command of the convoy's four-ship escort.
Krause is a professional sailor who has been at sea for thirteen years in a twenty-year career, and who is encountering naval combat for the first time.
Krause is a religious man, and his thinking is studded with biblical references, but the references are all highly descriptive of his situation.
His description of the physical challenges faced by the convoy and its escorts is on a par with Monsarrat.
Captain Krause - known as "the Kraut" by his men - has twenty years' naval experience but little combat experience compared to the other escorts because of the late entry of the U.S. into the war; his seniority means, though, that he is in overall command.The pressure on the convoy is less than in the earlier years of the war (as detailed in Nicholas Monsarrat's The Cruel Sea), but there is still plenty of drama.
Reading it shortly after The Cruel Sea makes one acutely aware of the comparative shallowness of Forester's writing, though his aims are rather different from those of the later book.
This book is interesting on a number of levels.
1) It's interesting to see Forester's naval work in a "modern" setting.
2) It's interesting to see him depart (or try to depart) from his Hornblower roots.
3) The book is a darned incisive look at convoy duty during WWII.Forester rocks at taking long hard looks at the burdens and trials of leadership, and this is a particularly excellent example of this.
And also his frequent need to visit the boys' room.The book is a great vignette of WWII convoy duty.
Also a great look into the psychology of leadership.
What at first seemed slow going became tension-filled, as the reader follows every movement of a cat and mouse pursuit as the commander of a group of destroyers guarding a convoy of Allied ships crossing the North Atlantic during WWII tries to anticipate the actions of Nazi U-boats in pursuit of the convoy.
I enjoyed them all quite a bit, and respect Forester a great deal as an author, so this book interested me.However, this book reads very densely and slowly with very extensive descriptions of nearly every decision the captain makes and takes place over a very short period of time.
The book is a description of every move blow-by-blow of the captain during a cruise through an area which a "Wolf Pack" of German U-Boats is active.
My folks had been suggesting to me/borderline bugging me to read the Forester book The Good Shepherd for years.
The story telling in The Good Shepherd personifies what made Forester such a strong author, and that was realistic character flaws/anxieties mixed with the strength that lies within people that allows un-extraordinary people to do extraordinary feats.
By the time I finished reading The Good Shepherd I felt like my feet were aching and that all I wanted was some coffee, a sandwich and a chance to sleep; that's how drawn into his characters Forester was able to bring the reader.
So like I was told for years, do yourself a favor and read this book.
3.5Great piece of naval literature (just like the classic cover says).Very interesting story of about 3 days in the life of one captain who is leading a convoy during WWII from Europe to England trying to bring the 37 Allied ship convoy to safety through U boat invested waters.Quite interesting to see military decision making and all the sacrifices that must be made for the sake of the whole.
subs) and how far technology has advanced from then to today.A bit melancholy as the captain's marriage has broken up, he's not been promoted as he has hoped, and is leading a convoy of merchant seamen across the water - not the most prestigious of military assignments.A great book with a lot of action.
This is a fantastic book about the unsung heroes of Atlantic convoy duty in WWII.
The hero is a naval officer who would have been mustered out of service had the war not started, doing his best to bring his convoy safely across the pond.
Not dashing, not debonair, just an ordinary man in an extraordinary situation.
And the conflict portrayed has no glory or honor, only the satisfaction of a job well done at the end, and a reward of having to do it all over again.
Everyone has heard of Hornblower, but everyone who loves naval fiction should read this book.
I read this book many years ago and have ordered, received and read it again. My absolute favorite WWII North Atlantic naval book is Nicholas Monsarrat's "The Cruel Sea." I'm happy to report that Forester's "The Good Shepherd" stacks up well against this classic.I'm in the midst of rereading the Forester's Horatio Hornblower series (11 books) for the third or fourth time and am adrift in this "Sea of Words" (Title of the lexicon of the Patrick O'Brien sea novels - which I don't care for anywhere near as much as Forester's!)
This is a really great and exciting book telling the story of one US convoy and it Navy escorts getting through Nazi submarine wolf packs during WWII. The story begins in the middle Atlantic when the lead escort first encounters contacts and goes from there. This was a difficult book to put down and a real page turner. You are sure to like it and the author's description of minute to minute action by the destroyer captain is excellent.
I enjoyed this book a great deal. As someone who has always had a fascination with ships, I found this to be an excellent look into the tactics of anti-submarine warfare in WWII. It is almost completely written from the perspective of the captain of a destroyer on convoy duty in the north atlantic. Forester also does some character analysis, particularly of the captain.
Until a friend gave this to me I had no idea the author of the Horatio Hornblower series did anything in the modern era. Really enjoyed the book. If you want to understand what it was like to be the commander of a convoy poached on by subs during WWII this will put you there.
Every bit as good as 'The Cruel Sea' the descriptive nature makes you feel as if you are with the Captain in the Pilot House.
S. Forester work to go before the cameras is "The Good Shepherd." Set during World War 2, the novel focuses on a convoy in the North Atlantic ocean, sailing to an Allied port.
The novel also provides a character study of the convoy's naval escort commander, George Krause.
He worries about the convoy adhering to wartime routine.
And he worries about the possibility of a U-boat wolf pack shadowing the convoy, looking to strike...I found "The Good Shepherd" to be a fascinating and worthwhile read, and I hope the movie version does it justice.
The story of U.S. Navy Commander George Krause, in charge of both the destroyer Keeling and a 37-ship convoy in World War II, this book had some great strengths.
Forester's knowledge of the sea and sailing men is obviously encyclopedicl This allows him to see Krause from the inside out as he internalizes the burdens of command.
I liked the "you are there" feel of the story.
What I didn't like, and what cuts my rating down to 3 1/2 stars, is the way the book is only about Krause.
How he feels about command and watching for/hunting down German U-boats.
Excellent story. Within 10 pages, I was hooked. it was hard in the beginning because I know little about the navy and military terms. There is a glossary at the end of the book, which I wish I had discovered earlier. Captain Krause is leading a convoy through the North Atlantic trying to avoid German U Boats. Sonar discovers an enemy and non-stop action begins. It helps me appreciate what our ancestors had to endure during World War II. This is an excellent read even for those who aren't really into war fiction.
This is a tense story. I read this book in one day, and that's only the second time I've done that. I'm not sure if the number and type of encounters is historical, but it never feels overdone.To get the most out of the book, it helps to understand naval terms and compass points. If you don't know this, there is a glossary in the back. Spend a few minutes learning the terms.
FantasticGreat novel about WWII. Factually accurate and keeps you on the edge of your seat. First read the book shortly after it was published in 1955, was to young to really understand it, but my dad helped me with the ship maneuvering. Now as a retired Naval Officer it is uncanny how someone with no Naval experience can be spot on on how a bridge operates. Must read!
The battle of the Atlantic in World War 2 was just about won by the Allies. It was won by the sheer force of US industrial might, but before that kicked in, Britain survived by the pluck of seamen in the merchant navy, and by the sailors in the 3-4 tiny ships that "Shepherded" a convoy of over 30 ships across the Atlantic. This is a wonderfully written book on one such convoy.
A mmm lack of passion, clarity....Disappointing and confusing overuse of naval terms from this master storyteller of ships seas and the nature of true leadership
An old time Naval war classic. An entire book about two days in a mans life. Exciting!!
GrippingFantastic read in both the action across the Atlantic and the character development of Krause. My top 5 favourite books. Enjoy !
Forester's novel describes a convoy bound from the US to Great Britain during the early stage of World War II in the North Atlantic. The cat and mouse chases between U-boats and convoy escorts is exciting, and Forester's portrayal of the American destroyer captain in charge of the convoy escorts is interesting. He's not a charismatic figure, but he is dedicated and honest to a fault. This is the one Forester book I never got around to, and it was worth seeking out. It goes on the same shelf with "The Cruel Sea" and "The Captain."
An enthralling read. Easily my favourite sea story. This book is hard to get (I think the US Naval Institute still publishes it http://www.usni.org/), but worthy of the pursuit. It turns wartime convoy escort work into a thrilling tale of wits, of battling both exhaustion and the enemy, as a typical convoy runs the gauntlet of the western approaches to England. Again: Forrester's attention to detail provides a realistic absorbing story without feeling bogged down in detail.
I've read this three times as an adult and might have read it in the Saturday Evening Post as a child. Unglamorous, unsparing story of getting a convoy to Ireland. Only one character is developed, that of Krause. I usually read the book in a day, it is so gripping. Added August 2018, after another reading it still stands up.
Only C. S. Forrester could tell this taleEscort a convoy across the Atlantic from the bridge of a destroyer. Every detail in the Captains decisions & self evaluation. Soon you are part of the convoy & its Commanding Officer.
Pretty good in the vein of "The Cruel Sea." Not as good but worth a read.
Good inside story during the Battle of the Atlantic WW2
