https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/146499.Invitation_to_the_Game
Monica Hughes introduces us to Lisse, our protagonist, and her group of friends, all of whom are graduating from Government School.
(hide spoiler)] She keeps getting injured, sick, crying, and generally holding her team back.This book is pretty interesting in that it shoves political theory into the minds of young adults.
(hide spoiler)]If you really want to know what The Game is about, I'll tell you: (view spoiler)[At first, the group is doing a virtual reality exploration of a huge land.
I actually reviewed this book on a past blog when I read it the first time.I was first introduced to Invitation to the Game by my librarian.
I believe if the author had spent more time exploring this world and all of the interesting pieces of future culture, then the book would've been a lot better, but it was written over twenty years ago, so I doubt I can change her mind.The group actually fares well for a while, until in a night bar they heard of something called 'The Game', and it perked their interest.
This was one of the first books I can ever remember reading and really loving.
This book had a huge impact on both my reading habits and my main areas of interest.
Invitation to the Game follows a group of characters who have recently graduated with highly specialized degrees but most of whom are unemployable because of the growing number of jobs that are given to robots.
I haven't read the book in about 12 years but the characters and story still stick with me to this day.
This book is hard to find, but hunt it down.
The only part that I was mildly interested in was the last 40 pages or so, and only because the twist was so far out of left field that I read closer to see if I could pick up on what I had missed earlier.
A few other issues that I had with it were the big periods of time missing between chapters.
Even the main character wasn't all that interesting.I'm making it sound like I hated the book, and that's not true, I really didn't.
It's just that I tend to care about the books that I read and what happens.
The book would have been a better read through the eyes of Scylla or Katie.
Although this was a cautionary story they talk about now modern technology like its exotic and foreign and won't be invented for another 150 year but spoiler alert these things are happening now.
Am I the only one we thinks the characters talk like robots?
But, instead it is a crappy excuse for a book that seems as if the pages where slapped together and put under and cover that makes me ill.And if you still want to read this book after reading my rant, you should skim it.
The situation is twisted of course to match the future year, yet even though this book is categorized as Science Fiction, there are only a few mild elements to it that really brings about that feel, which makes it not wholly an alien landscape.
Because we get to know Lisse's thoughts, it evokes in us a lot of corresponding ideas until we're just as deep in as the rest of them.Plus, this book's got that GREAT twist at the end.
In my opinion, that's what makes this such a great and really fun book to read!
It's not top-full of one over the other, but it's a great story to read just for enjoyment's sake!
This was  almost  really good. It felt like a mash-up of 1984, The Running Man, and The Hunger Games, but not quite as good as any of them. Definitely an interesting concept though - and a new one that I wasn't really expecting. But in the end, I felt the book was lacking depth. And where it was lacking depth, I felt that Hughes had made the ending too clean for my taste.
But there are too many people and not enough jobs, and they are each left unemployed, on the dole, and at a loss for how to live in a highly regimented society with no place for them.
They quickly learn hard lessons about dumpster-diving and squatting, and even faster, they lose interest in the hard-partying lifestyle of their fellow unemployed youths.
When the group is invited to play a free virtual reality game, they jump at the chance to escape the grime and social stigmas of their daily lives.
Living on an alien planet within "the game," each of the group finds new purpose to their lives.
It's one of the few books that I would recommend without hesitation to be on a school's reading curriculum, since not only does it tell an engaging story about unemployed life in a dystopian future, but it also has the thread of hope running through it that tells people that no matter what, they have useful skills, even if they don't yet know what use those skills are.The story is told from the perspective of Lisse, who has just graduated from school and found herself with no employment prospects.
Read a line of dialogue; any one of the characters could have said it and you wouldn't know which.
no teenager talks that way!The premise, while interesting, makes absolutely no sense!
(view spoiler)[ Why would the oh so cleverly named Government send teenagers to another planet without basic essentials?
Why would they include teenagers who are going to be bitter at the group for ripping them out of the upper class?
I feel like the Government could kill two birds with one stone here.
This book may be geared to the young adult readers of the world but it possessed enough whispers of truth for this adult reader to be allowed to relate to it.Hughes’ book explores what each of her 10 characters have found within themselves to be able to help give a new direction and meaning to their young lives, as well as to humanity’s overall well being.
This book sort of puts a new spin on an old saying of “Home is where the heart is” and puts a huge emphasis on re-using and re-cycling 'stuff'.It’s an enlightening, philosophical read.
I read the Invitation To The Game by, Monica Hughes.
I think this book is wonderful to read,I think it's wonderful because i like books/movies about the future and i wish we had flying cars like in old movies sad 2015 would be like.
The main setting is inside the game and in the Designated Area.
I would recommend this book because people would find it wonderful like i did its the best book i ever read.
I would recommend this book to people who wants to go to the future and what it would be like.
The book I read was Invitation to the Game the author is Monica Hughes. I really did like the book because there is robots who take all the jobs and so the kids have to survive with a group. There is many settings like there house, the nightlife Barton oaks, and the virtual reality. The main characters are Karen, Benta, Brad, Lisse, Scylla, Charlie, Alden, Katie, Paul, and Rich. I would recommend this book to anyone who likes science fiction I would recommend this book to them because it is a really good book and it has robots.
Okay
Based on my memory of reading the book in '92. At the time, it was a fairly 'hard' dystopia starring wayward and dead end kids that captured a very particular version early late gen-x/early gen-y zeitgeist of economic fatalism.
So this was first published in 1991, but oh wow, it could've been written in response to the events of today.
Robots taking over jobs!
Owwwwww, that was hard to read.So that was interesting and I liked this for the most part, though the characters didn't really stand out to me.
(view spoiler)[I liked getting a glimpse of their future, but, come on, "We met up with a group of 10 other people and within a year each of us had married one of the other 10!" REALLY?
(hide spoiler)]Anyway, glad I finally pulled this off my shelf.
There are times when the worldbuilding is a little weak -- are there still countries in this time?
The kids mention Australia, e.g., but it also seems like the Government is somehow global -- but it detracts minimally from the story.
The other thing that struck me rereading this after over a decade was the pacing.
Both the thinness of the worldbuilding and the pacing can easily be put down to this being very much a kids' book, and I think the principles of it and the intrigue manage to make up for that, for the most part.
This was just OK. I thought it kinda sucked. I took some righteous vape hits while I read it though
Amazing book that everyone should read, you don't even know that is happening until the end!
Long before YA books like THE HUNGER GAMES were common, books that asked hard questions of teen readers and put teen characters in truly desperate situations, she was writing things like this.
In INVITATION TO THE GAME, Lisse and her friends have been declared unemployable, their only skills are things that can be done by robots.
But Lisse and her friends are trying.
She's also the least dynamic character in the book, the only one who really has no useful skills, until the very end.
With more compelling characters this book would have been 5 stars and would probably still be talked about.
Was he a government spy or thought police who was supposed to see if this group was strong enough for The Game?2.
3/4 of the way through I think I finally got it.
5. Parallels to The Hunger Games by Suzanne Collins include the name of the book, the concept of bread and circuses, and all of the outlandish clothing of the people on Earth.6.
But again, Lisse doesn't know these answers, so neither do we.
Maybe this story would have been even better in third person or with all of the information I want to know, a series?8.
A group of students graduate from the government boarding school and are shipped to their 'area'.
Not the stereotypical diversity of different skin colors—we never learn anything about anyone's ethnicity, actually—but in their skills and personalities.
They are invited to "the game" (as in the title) even as they learn to thrive in the sordid world of the unemployed.
It is about learning that a team of six can accomplish vastly more than six individuals.
Also, the kids know how to do stuff, like make a loom and identify plants.
This book doesn't fall into that facile, infantile, ridiculous trap of the unsophisticated and misanthropic mind.
Wenn die geeigneten Berufe für die jeweiligen Schüler nicht mehr durch lebende Arbeiter besetzt werden, heißt es für sie, ein Leben in Arbeitslosigkeit zu führen, sie leben in abgeschotteten Bezirken, bekommen das allernötigste vom Staat und können sich ansonsten beim Sperrmüll bedienen.
Sie sind zwar kreativ und vertreiben sich die Zeit mit basteln, malen oder lesen, fühlen sich jedoch von der Gesellschaft verachtet und ausgestossen, haben keinen Zugang zu aktuellen Informationen und dürfen ihren Bezirk nicht verlassen.Doch dann hören sie von einem Spiel "The Game", zu dem man eingeladen werden muss, und das absolut faszinierend sein soll.
I was having some weird Minority Report, I, Robot, and Titan A.E moments when I read this.So, since this book is really short, you obviously can point out key areas where there would be good places for expansion or more in depth development, like the characters or certain plot elements but it’s fun by itself.
There’s this driving OMG, WHAT IS THIS GAME question pulling me all the way through the book and while I don’t think it was addressed in a smooth way, it sure had me going HOLY CRAP, WHAT THE HECK JUST HAPPENED?!
Enough that I re-read it earlier this year (preparatory to trying to make my youngest sister read it.) And it was still good, because frankly it taps into the same childhood fantasy you would have every time you went to the mall.
what if someone got sugar-high and fell off the Giant Pile of Mattresses we're planning to make, and broke his arm, empty malls don't have doctors...'And Hughes treats this set of ideas in TWO radically different settings as part of the same plot.And I am way too excited about an out-of-print children's book, but so be it.
Interesting book set 150 years in the future.
The Game, which they learn about very soon after settling into their new "home" is something that they decide that they want to play, and see if it gives them any way to make the days less tense and more fulfilling.
Altho they also find out that not everyone gets invited to play The Game, they are hopeful and evenutally get invited.
The results of what happens in The Game and afterwards is the 'hook' for this story and provides a very interesting perspecitive.
It's fundamental premise, that almost all jobs have been filled by robots and created a huge unemployed class, unravels with the lightest application of logic (the unemployed all have many, many needs and wants that are not met, but they are forced to scrounge through the trash rather than make and sell products and services to each other).
The characters are whiny and one-dimensional and really not all that different from each other.
The story doesn't build to a climax, everything just sort of resolves.
I was happy when this crappy book was over.
I liked the book as I got more and more into it, as more stuff started happening.
I liked this book because it would just keep getting more and more intense as I kept reading and understanding it more.
The main setting in the book is at their “apartment” or preparing for the game.
The main characters in the book are Lisse and a couple other people that live with her.
I would recommend this book to people who like, like action movies and stuff that has a lot of action because that's all that is in this story.
In Monica Hughes' vision of the future, the Government selects only a very few graduates of its education system to actually have jobs. The rest of the students are assigned a premature life of leisure in Designated Areas and otherwise left to fend for themselves. Lisse and her friends choose to stay together to increase their chances of survival -- each contributing their own unique skill to their small society. When they receive the Invitation to the Game, little did they know just how important their teamwork and skills would be. Excellent adventure in a future dystopia.
I really enjoyed this one. It was a quick read, and I liked the different take on a dystopian society from some of the books I've read recently. I considered a 4 rating, but decided on a 3 for two reasons:1. the author wraps up the story too cleanly, with the main characters accepting their fate a little too easily for my taste.2. what the crap does the main character bring to the table for this group? even in the section of the story where the author goes through each person's skill, the main character is skipped over. weird.
