https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/97751.The_Uncanny
To show this I’m going to give the example of two of my favourite gothic novels: Dracula and The Strange Case of Doctor Jekyll and Mr Hyde.To transgress is to break a limit or a boundary; both works contain characters, Dracula and Jekyll/Hyde, which have undergone a transgressive transformation; they have gone from a normal sate of being to something paranormal: they have broken a boundary.
Harker finds the Count at rest in a coffin “he was either dead or asleep, I could not say which.” This sense of unfamiliarity with the familiar, someone who is seemingly dead when they should be alive, evokes dread within Harker “I fled from the place.” The vampire’s uncanny nature is created by his transgressive undead state, which makes him evocative of more fear.
This is a short but intricate essay where Freud looks closely at what could be called the uncanny feeling, the spooked out sensation that something is not quite how it should be. He describes it at times as a shift from the familiar to the eerie or estranged, a space where doubt, fear and danger unsettle the individual. At other times he suggests that the experience of loneliness, darkness and the lack of noise are the basis of childhood fears, able to rear its head during one's lifetime. It's thought-provoking!
Freud riprende la frase di Jentsch relativa ad Hoffman, ed aggiunge “Questa osservazione, senza dubbio esatta, si riferisce soprattutto al racconto Il mago sabbiolino, che fa parte della raccolta dei Notturni, dal quale la figura della bambola Olimpia è passato nel primo atto dell’opera di Offenbach I racconti di Hoffman” Secondo Freud questo motivo della bambola in Hoffman non è centrale, ve ne sono altri che per lui sono più centrali e che impiega per condurre la sua analisi e per farci capire cos’è questo perturbante, cioè questo familiare tenuto nascosto e celato e che, ad un certo punto, ritorna.
Anyone with even the most basic understanding of logic will probably be bothered by the way Freud draws his conclusions here, particularly in the "celebrated" Da Vinci essay that makes up the bulk of this volume.
I'd say that logically speaking, most of the book is about on par with the following conversation from the 1966 Batman movie:Commissioner Gordon: It could be any one of them...
Which ones?Batman: Pretty fishy what happened to me on that ladder...Commissioner Gordon: You mean where there's a fish there could be a penguin?Robin: But wait!
Sea. C for Catwoman!Batman: Yet, an exploding shark was pulling my leg...Commissioner Gordon: The Joker!Chief O'Hara: All adds up to a sinister riddle...
Disiente con Jentsch en que esta cualidad del relato tenga que ver con la incertidumbre intelectual de si se trata de un cuento realista o fantástico, pues cuando ya se ha revelado como lo segundo, la sensación de lo ominoso permanece.Afirma que según el psicoanálisis, la angustia de quedar ciego (de perder los ojos o que sufran daño) es un sustituto de la angustia ante la castración.
So, as I said to begin with (Deja vu, that's spooky!) he gives you something to think about.By the way, if you want to cut to the chase, the uncanny is generally a renewed experience of something familiar and repressed, particularly if it relates to infantile complexes such as castration-complex, infantile-narcissism, obsessive repetition, etc.; or else it arises from the appearance that in real life we are confronting a juvenile belief which has since been surmounted, such as magical thinking, the omnipotence of thought, etc.
3.5 starsThis is a series of 5 essays. The title one The Uncanny is the most interesting but there is also one on childhood memories which I found fascinating. I'm very intrigued by what we remember. If you can get past the fact that Freud thinks everything is about sex and all women are hysterical he had some pretty interesting ideas.
You're a bloody puppet!
Unheimlich (uncanny) then gives us something like the familiar/concealed unconcealed.
This leads Freud to repressed sexual impulses (the familiar and concealed) that unconceal themselves symbolically through dreams and neurotic behavior.
The familiar/concealed unconceals itself in fiction.
One of Hoffmann’s stories was called “The Sand Man,” and concerns that familiar figure who puts children to sleep.
Freud argues that the uncanny events in the story represent a boy child’s fear of physical castration by his father.
The little boy's emotional reaction in the story is not just to the evil sandman but to his psychological dread of what his father might be planning for him.
Now I address the complete collection of essays by the same title in the paperback Penguin edition.To put it briefly, the collection is an assortment of fascinating, sometimes compelling, thoughts, observations, reflections, and unscientific speculations, that may challenge your ideas about the nature of memories, repression, and fear.
But he never really retreats, he only notes that he has foreseen our objections, as though to suggest that by anticipating our thoughts he has kept one step ahead and thus overcome those objections.To me, the most appealing and successful essays are the first and last, "Screen Memories," and "The Uncanny." "The Creative Writer and Daydreaming" has some interesting thoughts, though it is rather...
i love the way he writes, the way he thinks, the tools he uses to decode the human interactions, with the self and with the others, with the society.but what i loved most about this book is the his title, the concept itself.it's very rich yet precise, clear yet confusing.in french, it's called "l'inquietant familier",and freud built the presentation of his concept upon a short story by Hoffmann, "marchand de sable"..
i didnt know her name before, she made a very interesting introduction, giving freud the praise he deserves, YET, being very very critical to how he analyzed women sexuality, in this precise context.
It may be that the uncanny [unhomely] is something familiar [homely, homey] that has been repressed and then reappears, and that everything uncanny satisfies this condition.....We once regarded such things as real possibilities; we were convinced that they really happened.
Today we no longer believe in them, having surmounted such modes of thought.
Yet we do not feel entirely secure in these new convictions; the old ones live on in us, on the look out for confirmation.
This is a remarkable contribution from Freud that is almost entirely ignored by psychology on account of its lack of applicability.
Freud explores the `Uncanny,' the no longer being at home, and traces its dimensions through literature, dreams, and childhood memories.
He also contributes a brilliant speculation into Leonardo Da Vinci, later coined as an exercise in `psychobiography', in which he magnificently uses a single memory to investigate the conflicts and dilemmas of Leonardo's childhood and subsequent artistry and genius.
This is a crucial text in Freud's vast body of work, I urge you to read it.

The way Sigmund Freud analyzes and dives inside Humans Brain and actions and reaction never failed to stuns me on many levels.the five essays along with the uncanny are eye opening to many analytic process...it was a pleasant read
Reading this originally German text in English has been an interesting experience, as Freud discusses the semantics of the word 'uncanny' (German: unheimlich). I don't know if it is fully comprehensible for people who don't speak German but I think the translator did a great job explaining what Freud is referring to. Other than that, Freud uses literary texts to support his arguments (especially the novella "The Sandman" by German romanticist writer E.T.A. Hoffmann) which I found really interesting.
So, my question still is, is it?As far as psychoanalytic theory goes, yes, because this is an example of Freud merely applying psychoanalytic ideas to an interpretation of art.
The first essay, Screen Memories, generally states that the artist creates works of fantasized scenarios in order to replace unpleasant memories from the past, or to imagine more pleasant situations that the future may possess.
The problem is that Freud rarely uses examples from literature, or art until the last two essays.
Freud explains that Leonardo replaced his passion for art with that of scientific study as the result of as an attempt to remove himself from sexual passion.
I strongly suggest reading "The Sandman" by E.T.A Hoffmann before reading Freud's essay on it. There is also a short movie which actually makes it really easy to understand Freud's the Uncanny.
Schelling's idea is more basic—a familiar thing brought into the light when it should have remained hidden is uncanny.The linguistic investigation is followed by a number of examples of the uncanny from literature, real life experience, and Freud's case files.
However, animistic beliefs or childhood neuroses thought to have been overcome, but brought back either in full force or as hideous reminders, do lead us to experience the uncanny.I'm no Freudian, and I am a confirmed believer in the supernatural, but his discussion is fascinating (and particularly helpful for those who enjoy and/or write horror fiction).
Just putting that out there.That said, there are some things in this book that make sense - in an uncanny way (see what I did there?).
The essay on Creative Writing and Dreams had me looking at all those creative sorts around me with a new insight.
Then there is the Uncanny essay.First, let me say that for being such a "big" name, Freud defies the stereotype of boring essays by making these remarkably approachable and interesting.
(You might want to skip the first part, although if you read it I can talk to you and let you know just how the first part is uncanny in and of itself!).
An excellent, not well-known work by Sigmund Freud.
I refer excactly to the essay under the title,"The Uncanny" (Das Unheimliche).
Many older freudian motifs return, but the way the writer proceeds from one matter to the next is so slight, impreceptible.
It can be included among the freudian works of literary criticism, especially as regards the genre of imaginative literature.
Instead of the Object, it is the Subject to which all the properties of the uncanny are attributed.
Well, where is the uncanny?
Four of Freud's other essays are collected here as well as "The Uncanny." I found his "Screen Memories" essay to be the most illuminating in reference to ideas that I had not heard before.
In other words, it wasn't quite as much fun to read because you couldn't extrapolate quite as freely in reference to your own psychology; and isn't it applying Freud to one's self that, while certainly no his most important trait, is what constitutes his most attention retaining quality?
I skipped the essay on da Vinci for the time being, too much other stuff to read.
Also posted on Eva Lucias blogLike literature in general, you can agree and disagree if you like the
This is one of the difficulties of rereading stuff that was important to you when you were younger: I knew exactly what this essay was about and the important advice it gave about writing in general and writing horror in particular. Really useful stuff. And I went back and read it and it said nothing of the sort. The first section sort of hints at it, but mostly it's just teenage Lisa's wacky reinterpretation of Freud. Which I wouldn't mind, except that it makes it bloody hard to use for an annotation.
He is Freud after all , must I review ? however reading Uncanny in connection to Gothic literature was excellent experience since it was reading the theory and watching it grow and develop and appear almost tangible in form of characters and tales.
The lengthy section offering translations of the origin term could have easily been condensed, and he often spends several pages making a point, only to then say "Okay, but let's disregard that because it isn't comprehensive", or something to that effect.
Whether or not there is too much emphasis placed on the reader's knowledge I am yet to reach a decision on (by this I mean, were you to take a section with Lumiere from Beauty & the Beast out of context and show it to someone for the first time, it could easily create an uncanny feeling), however even in the context of the story, I know many people would consider these things uncanny.
The last essay, 'The Uncanny' of the book's title, holds the most interest, especially if viewed, as quoted in the introduction to the book, as 'less like an essay than like a strange theoretical novel' (Helene Cixous); it really does feel like reading a good horror story.Sadly, though, there's little of the thrill of Studies in Hysteria, or Dreams, or Everyday Life, or even perhaps Jokes, as the arguments never cohere in such grand manner, and much of it struck me as involuntarily hilarious, especially in Freud's daring but overreaching historical psychoanalytical short story dressed up as real thoughts.
This collection of essays has been titled The Uncanny by Penguin editors, which is a rather misleading marketing ploy. Sigmund Freud never collected together these essays, which are quite diverse in terms of scope and themes. The Uncanny is only one among them and in my opinion one of the least convincing. But if you are interested in the psychoanalytical theories of creativity this book should feature in your list of classics among those by Jung, Kris, Rank, Adler, and Hammer.
Over rated and convolutedFreud's own fear of castration takes over any real insights into the true nature of fear. The discussion of narcissism is ironic considering how self referential he is
cu preso
