https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161908-the-golden-gizmo
When it’s well over 100 degrees and you’re trying to find comfort in your drought addled, heat stroked confines it’s the right time to serve yourself up some 1950s crime fiction – hard boiled, naturally.Despite its weak title this short, fast moving novel has a lot going for it.
The protagonist is a small time con man with a long streak of getting himself out of hotspots while searching for the next grift.
Fans of Thompson’s work can expect all of the surprise twists and triple-crosses that keep both the novel’s characters and reader on their toes.
One of the lowest rated Thompsons, but still good. I do certainly love his style. Oh, and there was a trained Doberman that could practically speak the human language. A good bit of fun.
Another great read by Mr. Thompson. I know I'm a complete sell out for anything this guy wrote but still,it doesn't change the fact that it becomes a bit more obvious every single time that Thompson is the master of Pulp/Pop fiction.I mean seriously, who can introduce a talking dog in a book and still manage for every reader to be like: yeah, makes sense, pretty common, I buy that? Jim Thompson, that's who.The Golden Gizmo is like any other Jim's books, it makes you feel like you're driving full speed on the highway.
Six months from now, I will remember three things about this novel: (1) A female characters gets pistol-whipped in the breasts; (2) the protagonist revives a dying woman with coffee and then immediately has sex with her; and (3) there is a talking dog.
The protagonist is a former hobo, and it seems like most of the book is Thompson displaying his hobo knowledge, but he's not proud of it.
(Thompson was himself a hobo before finding work with the WPA during the depression).
It's weird because hobo knowledge is always weirdly specific (there's a debate on whether or not you can drug black coffee, a bit on how to cheat at dice if you shoot from a cup, and one of the burglars uses the improvised chicken claw weapon), and also old-timey (a lot of the plot relies on the ins and outs of smuggling gold bullion during the gold standard years).
I found a clutch of Jim Thompson novels at the Goodwill.
It was like winning the lottery (in a Jim Thompson kind of way).I immediately devoured this one.
I liked it a lot.
The Golden Gizmo is a sort of 6th Sense that the protagonist has that either leads him to hidden riches or hidden trouble.
As one would expect from Thompson, it was an excellent crime novel with a few surreal touches to keep it from being bland.
I liked the talking Doberman myself.
It's not quite up there with The Master and Margarita but it is well worth the read.
ahhh.
yeah, there's the fix.
lotsa pulpy, page-swishing plot with 2 or 3 good twists that come faster and harder as you reach the end of the book.
all the must-haves are here: the con man, the cold-hearted dame, the good girl, the old-school hardass, the freaky guy ...
oh, and a talking dog.
never quite figured out the dog's reason for being here -- other than to increase the freak factor of the freaky guy -- but whatevs.
it didn't distract at all from the story of a guy who has to cut some ugly deals just to stay alive.
Mediocre plot but an interesting protagonist with a fascinating outlook based on his temporary propensity to succeed when doing what he knows is wrong. Strange Elaine, evil and horrendously drunk. Petty local hoods playing at protection, A smorgasbord of oddities.
Jim Thompson - always amusing, and unpredictable, double-crossing characters, greed, etc. This one i didn't find as gripping as some other Thompsons but it's diggable stuff, talking dog and chinless man included.
Toddy's got a sense for a short con. He calls it his golden gizmo yet it eventually it always leads to trouble. When he is framed for a crime he didn't commit what results is a clever, if some what generic noir.
A weak entry for the master of Noir Fiction. If you are a hardcore Thompson fan you may find some of the characters compelling but the plot is predictable and the outcome foreordained. Rating: 3 out of 5 stars
Toddy Kent has a sixth sense, one that guides him to where the easy money is. Something that will unexpectedly lead to his wife's murder. What follows is Kent's attempt to escape from those who then pursue him.
Kind of campy, and certainly rollicking- I thought this book was tons of fun. Violent, evil fun.
Not bad.... not great either.The plot kind of simmered out and never really peaked.
Pretty weak for Jimbo but i still kinda liked it
I like Jim Thompson. But I just couldn't get through this book.
I have read many books by Jim Thompson and all were excellent, but this was nonsense. An awful book.
Idiotic worthless drivel. Anachronistic dialect, flat characters with incomprehensible motives. Can I give it 0 stars?
Fascinating, furious, and funny. One of Thompson's lightest book...but still a good portion of noir.
...Never trust a talking dog, a man with no chin, dames, and anyone else you might meet.
The goofiest and least convincing of all Jim Thompson's work, that said it is still a Jim Thompson novel and you could make a much worse choice in your reading material.
