https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43448.Flowers_in_the_Attic
These days, I'm always hearing people opine, "Say what you want about Harry Potter, at least it's getting kids to read." Well, you could make a very good argument that Flowers in the Attic did the same thing for a generation of pre-teen girls.
I remember a girl actually got in trouble for bringing it to free reading period in English class.
(Speaking of good stories...)It may seem like a small point, but I remember enjoying the ballet angle of this book.
Anyway, taken in the right spirit, Flowers in the Attic is a decent read, especially when you're being force fed rubbish like My Brother Sam is Dead and Where the Red Fern Grows.
Friends, there's like a whole page where VC Andrews describes a five-year-old's underwear in loving, lavish detail.
If you didn't know Flowers in the Attic is about brotherfucking, you wouldn't be reading this.
And you're worried about them being exposed to too much sex and creepiness on the internet.
I hope you're happy, Jayme.--------------------------Just because I feel like someone ought to make this list, here are the books Cathy reads:- Something about King Arthur - unclear which specific book- Jude the Obscure- Wuthering Heights- Lorna Doone: A Romance of Exmoor- Little Men- Jane Eyre--------------------------UPDATE: I've just been alerted to the existence of VC Andrews' original pitch letter.
No sé qué pensar, sigo un poco en shock por todo lo que se revela al final (aunque varias cosas ya me las esperaba, CORRINE ES UNA MALDITA).
(view spoiler)[ES QUE CÓMO PUDO, yo venía sospechando desde la mitad del libro que el abuelo ya se había muerto y la muy bitch simplemente los tenía encerrados porque sí, ¡y sí!
Y luego cuando Cathy sueña a que su papá va por Cory al jardín lleno de flores tuve que parar de leer porque ya no podía más y mis lágrimas no me dejaban ver.
(hide spoiler)]El libro me gustó muchísimo, desde la segunda parte hasta el final no pude soltarlo, estaba demasiado picada.
If loving the Flowers In The Attic series is wrong, then I don't want to be right.
I seem to remember a scene where the grandma walks in while they're having sex and they can't stop because they are so enraptured with the experience and I remember thinking damn!
Note to any young person that may be reading this: sex is actually not so great that you couldn't stop if you're grandma walked in on you mid-act: so really, theres no need to run out there and try it too soon and always, always, always use a condom and sex with a sibling may be a titilating topic (as evidenced in Middlesex) but in real life that's just f*#^@ed up!
No wonder this was so controversial. It has not diminished in shock factor, I'll tell you that! It's more risque even than "The Thorn Birds"! Quintessential page-turner.Cannot wait to continue reading about these freaks that are the Dollangangers!!
Have loved this book since I was a little kid! Mel 🖤🐾🐺
It's the one book I secretly coveted and acquired in my tedious pre-pubescent soul-searching.
I knew there was something naughty between these pages, something to be whispered and giggled about later on with my girlfriends, something I didn't rightly understand.I went back and read the entire Dollanganger series as an adult, and yes, it is tacky.
Why am I reading this terrible book?
I think this book is important.
I think it tells a universal story and I was often moved by it and by the series as a whole.
because you never know, you can never really know what someone else has been through, where their lives took them, and why they are the way they are.
I was captivated by the relationships which is probably from where my love of reading and writing family dramas was born.As an avid genealogist, this books is ripe with analysis to understand all the connections between blood and non-blood relatives.
But ultimately, I think the reader has to forget the family relationships between some of these characters and just focus on the intensity of the drama between 2 people regardless of their relationships.Locked in an attic.
you have to read it just to see what some people are capable of.
50 páginas menos y hubiera estado perfecto.
I have this unfortunate penchant for ugly things; I buy ugly jewlery, I go out with slightly unatractive men, and I read books like this.It's awful, and yet there is something about how awful it is that made me enjoy it.
Reading this book again was like going back to a simpler time; a time when there were no bills, no laundry and when my greatest concern was if Dan would ask to borrow a pencil in math class (I had a ready supply, just in case).It was a very quick read, which is possibly it's only merit.
So, if you are looking for something to pass the time, which is slightly trashier than warm wine coolers in a trailer park, read this book.
Whoa, what did I just read??Freud would have a field day with this one...
I loved these books; I read them like the pages were crafted from meth, and I have long wondered what returning to this beloved series would feel like.So, I returned this week, to crack open the first book in The Dollanganger Family series and be with Cathy, Chris, Cory and Carrie (my dear friends!) all over again.And, let me tell you what I felt like, re-reading them: Horrified.I wondered at the reasoning part of my adolescent brain.
So how is perfection decided?Is it by looks?Is it by choices?Is it by God's standards?Or perhaps by the human's opinions? Do children pay for their parents' decisions?Why should they?And who in this motherf*cking universe is entitled to do just that? So here's the deal.I'm going to start with the mother of the story.She gets the honors because she's really something.So let me get this straight.You decide, after the death of your husband and your childrens'father, to grab your kids and lead and
And hear this.You lock up your children in a secluded room , with the only pacing opening towards an ATTIC, lie incessantly to them about the time they are going to be trapped in that hell-hole and then gradually abandon them, forget they need their mother after losing their father so recently, and drop them like a sack of sh*t.And what's the reason of that?TO GET BACK THE F*CKING MONEY.Why?BECAUSE YOU WON'T RECEIVE NOT ONE F*UCKING PENNY IF YOUR FATHER FINDS OUT ABOUT YOUR KIDS.So the woman does something brilliant.Really great parent advice.Not only does she leave her beautiful and most caring children at the mercy of a flogging,relentless,grey-haired monster with the lamest excuse of all that she will get them out as soon her father is dead and the fortune is hers.
What I call a Jerry type of book.
Jerry Springer.
Jeremy Kyle.
Tacky incest stories where privacy has been exchanged for fame.
The book has much more of an icky cringe factor than Jerry or Jeremy, where the salacious details are part of the entertainment of fifteen minutes of the tackiest, loudest and most violent people on tv.
I've gone through a Jeremy Springer one too, mornings in the gym.
I'm just embarking on the Jeremy Kyle one.
He takes things seriously whereas Springer, who is as tacky as his guests, is tongue in cheek.
THERE WILL BE SPOILERSIf you haven't read this book by now, you either a) don't intend to, or b) have been imprisoned in an attic all your life.
She never had any intention of getting them out of that damn attic and let her little son DIE - actually, it never said outright she poisoned them, but she pretty much did and the grandmother just brought the food up to them.
I do not want to have to read ANOTHER book to see the mom and grandmother DIE A HORRIBLE PAINFUL DEATH LIKE THEY DESERVE.
All we see is Chris reading and Cathy doing boring shit.Also, the BIG incest sex scene?
I really hate this book. I also hate "Petals on The Wind", "If There Be Thorns" and "Seeds of Yesterday". I say this having just re-read each of the above 17 years after I first read them (they were heady stuff to a 12 year old), and I was appalled at the predictability of the plot, the characters, the obsession Virgina Andrews appeared to harbour for incestuous relationships.I hate the fact that characters are so stereotypically physically stunning, but must shoulder a terrible tragic burden. I hate the dialogue used. Awful. Simply awful.
I had no idea then what Gothic style was, I just knew I was hooked by the shocking developments, the taboo subjects, the weird twists and betrayals, and of course the innocent main characters sucked into the morbid world.I was dreading this fourth re-read a little because it's been so long since I've read this one - I was sadly let down a few years back with another re-read of My Sweet Audrina, just as I was when I re-read Garden of Shadows.
Not only that, but Andrews shows the depth of betrayal and hope the characters hold, unique to them, with the people in their lives that they love.
admit it: everyone goes through a v.c. andrews phase, devouring every word of her ghost-written books and all the anguished incest-y desires that jump off the page in horridly written prose.
if jerry springer and tyra banks ever had a lovechild and turned it into text, v.c. andrews books would be it.
that being said, i did enjoy the hell out of this book when i first read it, simply because it was so tawdry.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Update--------------------------------------------------------------------------------Story time (YAY): I was over my mother's house one day and she watching some movie on Lifetime.
"Remember the children are lock in the attic in the crazy grandmother's house." Well I said I remember bits and pieces, because I never watch a movie all the way to the end.
Then she recommended that I read the book, because it is good, better than the movie.
The children are locked in the room where they are kept in secret, until the mother can win over her father's love again.
So if you want a crazy lifetime book, read this one.
Yes, I read the entire series. No, I am not ashamed. I'm not rating them because I would have to rate them low because they're awful, but I loved them anyway. Wipe that judgy look off your face right now.
FLOWERS IN THE ATTIC was published in 1979. 9 TO 5 arrived in theaters in 1980. Golly-lolly-day, discuss!
QUE DIABLOS CON TODO ESTE LIBRO!!!! Lo leí por recomendación de Alexis y WOW dio mucho de que hablar. Lo recomiendo mucho.
I don't know why I read this...Guess I was in a mood for something really disturbing...So because there isn't much of a plot i'll give it to you, the book centers around 4 brothers and sisters – Chris, Cathy, Carrie and Cory.
In an effort to keep the twins happy, Cathy and Chris begin to put up paper flower decorations as if trying to convince the twins it is not an attic but a beautiful garden.
What I thought of it:Flowers in the attic was freakishly disturbing, but not that bad.
What can I say... *** (SPOILERS) ***1. Scared the crap out of me.2. I probably will never eat anything with powdered sugar on it again.3. Incest is the best, or so they say.4. I couldn't put it down!!!!!!
It's really worth 3 1/2 stars. I just can't give it 4. It was written well enough (maybe a little too simple for me). I just felt it is was very predictable and obviously setting up for a serial (with all the predictable drama of broken relationships). Just not my cup of tea as they use to say.
Audiobook #190Hands up! Who did not own this in the 80s?
This creepfest was absolutely rivetting.
I don't know how I missed reading this when I was younger, but wowser, thanks to the MacHalo Crew for putting it on my radar for taboo month!All the adults in this need to die in a fiery pit of doom.
Self centered, pretentious and pious to a fault I want them all to die, die, die!This story is immensely readable, whilst being heartbreaking and horrible at the same time.
Eeeep!My stomach was actually upset while reading this, I was nervous, I was afraid, I was shocked and I was horrified.
I fucking loved this, blood drinking, rat eating, incestuous relationship and all.
4 love-it-came-unbidden Stars
Que libro tan grotesco y emocionante. Realmente han pasado muchas cosas dentro de esta historia que movieron demasiado en mi. Enseñándome que a veces perder la esperanza no significa que no deje de existir.
Oh, VC Andrews.
I love how you've been dead for 20 years and somehow found the time to write 600 new books.
This isn't one of those books, though.
You actually wrote it!
This is a magical tale of Cathy and her magical romance with her brother.
Intrigued?
Of course you are.
It also features a money hungry mother, a crazy grandma who whips them and poisons them with arsenic, and a dead kid (died from ARSENIC poisoning!
Oh, right.
It was the mother that poisoned them, not the grandma.
What an evil bitch!) Let's see.
They escape from the attic finally.
