https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13422.The_Presocratic_Philosophers
Guthrie's two volumes (I & II) in his History of Greek Philosophy that are dedicated to the Presocratics are useful in that they summarize much bibliography and often states the status questionis of a problem in clear terms (and they are very readable) - but Guthrie was himself a fool and missed a lot of what, after Cherniss and Heidel, should have been obvious.One fabulous monograph that very few will have heard of is J.W. Beardslee's Physis (which was a dissertation done under the supervision of Paul Shorey):http://www.amazon.com/Physis-Fifth-Ce...On Parmenides, you simply have to read and study and understand Tarán's book -- but that is very difficult if you don't have access to the Greek.
My first philosophy text, where I learned Heraclitus only wrote in fragments.
Kirk, Raven, and Schofield provide useful notes in what is probably the best single English-language guide to the Presocratics.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---Birthed in wonder, the Western tradition of Philosophy begins with these Presocratic philosophers of nature who were the first to ask: What are all existing things made of?
Kirk and Raven's Presocratic Philosophers is the gold standard introduction to this Presocratic era, and includes the remaining fragments of Thales and the Milesians, Empedocles, Parmenides, Heraclitus, Zeno, and the Atomists.
---Read this and reviews of other classics in Western Philosophy on the History page of www.BestPhilosophyBooks.org (a  thinkPhilosophy Production).---
The philosophers are discussed in a mostly linear history, and it's kind of amazing to watch them develop complex thought.
You also discover great historical tidbits, for instance, that Pythagoras almost certainly did not come up with the things attributed to him.
Rather, he was a cult leader who taught, among other strange things, that beans should not be eaten because they are aristocratic.
I can't explain how, because it's more of a change in feeling and perception than explicit thought, but reading Heraclitus definitely changed me.
I feel a little bit wiser, more open to some kind of "truth" than I did before.
This was my favorite pre-socratic reference book back in college.
I knew nearly nothing about the Pre-Socratic Philosophers, so I learned a lot reading this book. Having tried another book that also contained fragments from or referencing Pre-Socratic philosophers, I found this superior; although, the organization takes getting used to. If I had fallen in love with the pre-Socratics I would have given it more stars, that has little to do with Kirk and co.
This book is the best reader for people interested in learning about the pre-Socratic philosophers. While some parts are in Ancient Greek, there are translations provided. This in depth study of the beginning of western philosophy is a must for any serious Philosophy or Classics student.
Its a good book, because i loved this genero
Y allí nos repetían la rubiconada clásica de que la filosofía era el paso del mito al logos: El monolito de 2001 en el siglo V a.C. El nacimiento del discurso racional, la eclosión de la inteligencia.El caminar frente al gateo estéril, la luz frente a las tinieblas, el amor por la sabiduría frente a la mitontería.
Pese a lo que digan los de siempre.
Y es que son autores pero que muy eruditos.
It was definitely worth reading, and it made very clear that we live today in such a different world to the presocratics that we must be careful about assuming how much we actually understand them, but in the end I didn't get all that much out of them.
The chapter on Zeno was absolutely terrible, and if I hadn't already read about Zeno's paradoxes I wouldn't have understood hardly a thing from their presentation; the section on Parmenides was not very good either; they could have made a lot more of their section on Heraclitus.
Un libro excelente que da una introducción a los filósofos presocráticos a través de una lectura de los fragmentos existentes de las obras de los diferentes pensadores.
Cada sección está dedicada a un filósofo y tiene una pequeña introducción que esta seguida por los diferentes fragmentos ordenados por temas.
La única posible crítica es que de alguna manera esta estructuración y, en algunos pensadores, la misma selección de fragmentos puede hacer demasiado guiado y rígida la interpretación, sin embargo los autores se preocupan por incluir comentarios sobre interpretaciones diferentes a las presentadas por ellos.
This book covers a lot of ground, beginning with Thales and going up to Diogenes.
The authors use the extant fragments to detail the varies ideas of the ancients with regard to cosmology and metaphysics, and do a credible job for the most part.
However, my only real complaint comes with the covering of Pythagoras, which seems to me as much based on opinions as it is on the fragments.
This is regretable because the authors cover both Pythagoras and Pythagorianism, and one is well advised to look at specialized texts for insights into these areas.
But overall, an invaluable book for those interested in this exciting era of development.
Supplies the reader with the writings of the pre-Socratic philosophers both in the original Greek and in English translation. Includes detailed commentary on the fragments and passages, showing how the different philosophic thoughts fit into each philosopher’s system, and how those thoughts and systems fit into the development of Greek pre-Socratic thought in general. Moreover, the range of these early thinkers is impressive: not only is there metaphysics and ethics, but there is also dialectics, logic, the critique of anthropomorphism, paradox and atomism.
I read this collection for Maxwell's History of Ancient Philosophy course during the second semester of 1980/81 at Loyola University Chicago along with a similar collection edited and translated by, as I recall, Wainright. Having read all the Presocratic fragments in several similar collections, it is difficult to remember the differences between them. In any case, on this occasion and for this course my primary interest was with Parmenides about whose Proem I composed the required term paper.
started rereading paramenides take on metaphysics after a boozy night of argument at the local watering hole. which is more valid?? "the way of truth" or "the way of seeming" kirk and raven's book is by far the best out there for anything presocratic, they include the orginal greek fragments as well as their translations for those whose ancient greek has lapsed due to misuse. while experiencing paramenides again there are hints and foreshadowing to baudrillard's theories on simulacrum.
This is an excellent scholarly work about the Presocratic philosophers. It has the Greek text, the English text, commentary, and introductory materials. The writing isn't bad, but is a little wordy as one might suspect. Must for doing work with the Presocratics. This book is the same as https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2...
This is the best collection of Presocratic philosophy done in the proper movement through works/authors (when known) and really demonstrates the evolution of philosophy leading up to where most of us just start to explore philosophy.
It was okay. The majority of the book was Greek/Latin fragments with English translations accompanying them, followed by a lot of textual criticism/interpretations by scholars/etc. and then brief comments about the text. It became very unreadable as time went on.
A very good introduction to and consideration of the Presocratic philosophers. The biggest problem with it is that the editors don't include all the fragments and they number them in their own idiosyncratic fashion instead of following the Diels Kranz numberings which are standard.
This book is a point of reference for the subject of the Presocratic Philosophers. It is mentioning almost every sigle ancient text regarding these Philosophers with a decent commentary. It can be used by researchers because it contains all those ancient writtings in one volume.
A Tour de Force on Presocratic philosophers. This book is a reference in that era and ought to be read by those interested in philosophy history (especially presocratic philosophers). Get ready for a jargon storm (and a lot of greek too) but if you are interested you should read it.
A composite work on philosophers who preceded Socrates. Not nearly as engaging as Jonathan Barnes' wonderfully written book, it still gives a further account of the great minds in Ancient Greece.
A great anthology of Pre-socratic texts, with commentary.
A classic!
Pretty much everything important that we have of the writings of the presocratic philosophers, neatly and intelligently organized. An excellent resource.
I'm reading this book in part to meet a degree requirement. It's, however, the standard repository for pre-socratic exsigua, translation, and commentary although somewhat dated.
An excellent resource for Pre-Socratic thought. One of my favorite aspects of this book is that each quote and excerpt is in the original Greek followed by a translation.
Es un clásico de referencia sobre los filósofos presocráticos. esta en una nueva edición. pasa el tiempo pero no se queda viejo.
