https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85907.Marketing_Management
4 starsMarketing Management was needed for my studies. Tons of useful information.
This is the absolute bible of marketing end to end. A textbook in most business schools, even an autodidact like myself can learn an immense amount from this book. Probably great to read before an MBA and just if you want to understand how marketing is SUPPOSED to work (although sadly the real world rarely works as the authors describe).
With that said, my four star rating is based upon text books, not all books I have read.Marketing Management is a very well laid out and clear text book.
It addresses many of the latest trends around viral marketing and utilization of web based social/business networks to market products and services.For our course each student was required to develop a marketing plan and the text provided good examples of how to go about putting a comprehensive document together.
Though I would not pick this up for light reading, it was an excellent text for the topic covered.
I read this book back when I was in school and it was a great introduction to marketing basics. I wouldn't recommend this being your only book about marketing, there are other ones that are more "hands on" that give you more specific case studies that translate marketing theory into actual results.However it does introduce and explain many core marketing concepts and is a great place to start learning about how to get to know your customers and how to speak their language.
i think it,s beautifully book
Most people think marketing is the evil force behind their spending hands or the science behind making people spend their money on them.
To break with this marketing notion is to truly bring it's colours to the surface as a science of matching need and offer.
But Kotler only does this as a way to transcend that expectation.Kotler concepts formal marketing as a tool for achieving a new marketing paradigm - more responsible and competent, more compassive and less invasive.
A match of more subtle needs and richer and more responsible offers.A must read for marketing professionals, managers and enthusiasts.
-Contenidos generalistas avanzados pero poco amistosos con el lector descuidado.-Género. Ensayo.Lo que nos cuenta. Aproximación al marketing, supuestamente desde posiciones decisorias, que se ha ido actualizando a lo largo de los años que han pasado desde su publicación (ha llovido mucho).¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
This is the worst textbook I have ever read. It takes 700+ pages to poorly define marketing buzz words while failing to provide anything of substance or utility. This is not a marketing textbook, it's a guide for communicating with other marketing people. There's more content in the 48-page marketing chapter of my performing arts management textbook than in this entire book.
Total boring but at least I passed the exammm
The bible of the marketing! this is how I call this book when I recommended it to the undergraduate students. From A to Z, all you need to know about marketing (literature and application) is here. With great amount of example, the authors of this book were able to come across all of the details in each chapter. I made a good use of this book by reading the marketing orientation chapter, especially 7Ps theory.
Quando a primeira edição deste livro foi publicada, em 1967, lançou conceitos inovadores que mudaram o modo como as pessoas viam o marketing.
Quase 40 anos depois, na 12a edição, ele continua a surtir o mesmo efeito - tópicos como marketing holístico, brand equity e marketing experimental prometem fazer com que as pessoas invistam em uma perspectiva mais ampla e integrada do marketing.
É exatamente essa capacidade de antecipar tendências que faz de Administração de marketing o livro de referência da área em todo o mundo.
If the zombie apocalypse ever comes to pass, my weapon of choice would be Kotler & Ketler's Marketing Management book. It's a humongous heavy paperback that makes for an excellent blunt weapon. I can barely wait to squash some zombie's brains with it. It also contains very elegant writing and some gorgeous pictures. I wasn't the most dedicated student of management ever, but somehow I ended up reading this beast of a book twice. Marketing management, however, is not something you learn from a paperback. It takes real experience.
One of the best business book.This is still my personal reference in marketing after 11 years of being a marketer .His examples, the way of structuring the business plan and introducing the marketing concepts are extraordinary .It is a valuable asset for both MBA students and marketers .Just take your time in reading and try to disseminate knowledge with colleagues and friends .
This is the best marketing book that I ve ever read..
i am a student of SriLanka Institute of Marketing(SLIM) i want to read Kotler's Marketing Management Book(13th edition).
For those who acknowledged him/herself as a management student should read this book.. very easy to understand and enrich your marketing knowledge from A to Z
A must have reference for people working or studying marketing.The best.
Even it was a text book for me but it was amazing this book is my life it has every thing i may need in my marketing life :)
When I read a book, what I do expect is whatever written inside should be interactive enough to get into my average I.Q brain.
The Philip Kotler's marketing management book is the only book of my syllabus that I've read without yawning for a moment.All the topics have been covered, every edition get updated so well that it leaves probably no topic of marketing.
Moreover the examples that's been cited in the book are from our daily life that after reading a topic it remains in mind forever.I recommended this book to everyone, and again I am gonna say its the best book ever for marketing, interesting more than a Fiction book/ young-adult book.Thank you Mr. Kotler for making Marketing this much easy and damn interesting.
[Review]Philip Kotler is one of the most regarded authority in the field of marketing.This Kotler's book is a must-read for every marketing student. The book contains complete fundamental contents on the subject; namely, notion of STP, marketing mix, strategic marketing. It is very comprehensive work. Its detailed explanation on several topics could infuriate some readers who need to know only succinct ideas. Thus, this may not suit for casual learners on the subject. The style of writing is very easy to follow. Recommended for serious marketing learners.
This is a book which I had the opportunity to read while I was doing my Erasmus semester in the University of Vienna. Having read many text books, i would say that I really enjoyed reading this particular one. It was easy to understand, no complicated meanings or vocabulary. I really learnt many useful stuff, and someone can get a certain view and clear understanding of the Marketing World and its contents.
this is a very ease to access any book any time. so that to save time...
I want soft copy of Marketing Management book and my mail id is " suresh.prajapati@icicilombard.com "
its very nice
i want to read this Philip Kotler marketing management book
.
rretretretetertrete
I wanna read this book,, Philip Kotler is Great marketer Man who learned alot of people What's the importance of Marketing , how to manage it and it's effect of our economy .
A bible for an MBA student!
have to make notes
