https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/87783.Harper_Lee_s_To_Kill_a_Mockingbird
I remember finishing it at age 14, and asking my Mom to take me to the library.
I dramatically told the librarian "I want to read EVERYTHING that Harper Lee ever wrote!" She responded .
"You already did." That's been over 40 years, and I still remember how devastated I felt.
My favorite line from the book was (and I paraphrase):Harper Lee tells us how, on a dare, Scout is about to run up to Boo Radley's house and touch the porch.
She is understandably scared, and Lee explains that she ".
treaded water at the gate."I remember reading that line over and over.
I've read this book twice in one month I'm slightly obsessed help me
Harper Lee's moving and powerful novel deserves to remain as one of the most important 20th Centurary Classics.
Exploring this theme, Harper views the world through the unpredudiced eyes of Scout and we watch as her views are shaped by those around her.The novel is shockingly powerful, with characterisation that will move you through emotions.
The lessons to be learnt by this book are of such great importance to the modern day world in which we live, therefore I believe that it should be positvely encouraged to early teenagers, as they themselves are having their views shaped by those around them.
I would say that Nelle Harper Lee deserves all the respect she gets for this truly outstanding novel.
Atticus, you are my favorite book character, you had me cheering you on during the trial *again* even when I knew the ending, and that is what a great writer does, they make you feel and think.
I am not here thinking "oh, what a nice book.
Done," they make you lay awake at night and wonder about what made the ending so special, and if you could change it, which is why I refuse to read the sequel to this book, because I don't feel To Kill a Mockingbird is a story, I feel it as a life lesson.
I haven't read this book for a long time and just re-read it because I'm teaching it right now. This book is really incredible and I have a much greater appreciation of this book now that I'm a father and have been in the world a bit. I was surprised when AFI named Atticus the #1 hero of all time, but not because he didn't deserve (he does) but that "the world" would recognize what a true hero looks like (non-violent, putting others above yourself, etc). Hopefully I can help my students see this.
I LOVE this novel, and so it was really cool to read the play. Of course with it not being told from Scout's POV, and it having to be trimmed down for the stage, there are a lot of details missing. I'd still like to see this performed one day.
I've really just never felt that this book warrants the status it receives. It's okay, and the values espoused are certainly noble, but the story itself is just kind of boring. I know I am in the minority with this opinion, so perhaps there is some greatness that is lost on me.
Just a place holder. Listened for a 3rd time to the Sissy Spacek audio, which is phenomenal. (I've also read the print version three times.) Got to figure out how to denote multiple readings of a title ...
A young girl named Scout is playing in her front garden with her older brother Jem, when she meets a boy named Dill, which whom they become friends with.
Dill is a small boy, and only stays in Scout's town with his aunty, who is pretty judgmental.
While this is going on, Atticus is battling a court case, that involves a black man who is accused of raping a young white girl, a case that Atticus know that he cannot win because of the very fact that he is black, and the majority of the courtroom is white.
He tries to stab Scout and Jem. Out of nowhere, the most hated man in town, besides Atticus, saves the children from death.
This adaptation will be staged by one of our local theaters early next year, and I'm co-designing props for it.
I believe another theater did this particular adaptation a few years ago as well.
It's a good adaptation of this classic novel.
Sergel gets the important elements in while keeping the play at a manageable length.
But given that the novel is more than 300 pages, that is to be expected.
The important development elements and the themes are intact.
What's interesting is that while the action in the novel is seen through Scout's eyes, the play is more of an omniscient view.
Well, walaupun ada bagian2 tertentu yg tdk ku mengerti (mungkin karena aku kurang paham budaya mereka, atau mungkin jg krna setingnya jaman 'bahula') tapi aku cukup yakin ini aman dibaca bahkan oleh anak SD.
bagian favoritku adalah saat Bibi Alexandra mengajarkan pada keponakannya bahwa tidak boleh memanggil ayah mereka hanya dg namanya saja (jaman sekarang itu sudah umum), itu sopan santun.Yang paling favorit dan mengena adlh ketika Atticus (pengacara & single parent) mengira bahwa anaknya telah membunuh Bob Ewell.
Kata2 Atticus (kalo' aku tdk salah ingat): "hanya aku yg mereka (anak2) punya.
dan aku tidak mau kehilangan mereka, karena hanya mereka yg aku punya."
I like this adaptation of the novel a lot.
It has all the beauty, grace and simplicity of Harper Lee’s novel.This review of both plays based on Harper Lee's novel.
Are there any other reviews here of the play, either of them?
These two plays are identical, except a grown up Jean Louise does the narration in the version from 1998 and Miss Maudie does some narration in the older version.
I prefer Jean Louise Finch telling the story.I read this for the first time on August 31, 2010 for the book discussion of the novel.
This book talks about the segregation between the Blacks and Whites.
It informs us how the Blacks didn't have as much rights and freedoms as the Whites.
For example, there's a part in the book when a White woman(Mayella) told a Black man(Tom Robinson) to kiss her.
The Mayella's father saw it and called the polices.
The polices only believed in Mayella and her father but not the Robinson.
They sent Robinson to jail...
When he got kill for escaping from jail, he needs to get killed in a more depressing way than the Whites.
Read this book and find out more about the segregation.
A solid adaptation of Harper Lee's novel, which does a good job of streamlining the action & staying true to the themes & story.
It should be no surprise how powerful this play is, given the rich source material.
My biggest issue with this play comes not from the dialogue or story, but from the fact that Sergel felt the need to include parentheticals before the majority of the lines, instructing the actor on how to say them.
The emotion is already there in the lines; the inclusion of so many parentheticals shows a lack of faith in both the actors playing the roles and in the words themselves.
The main thing in this book is the fight that.makes their dad for ablack manwho was accused for rape, something he didn’t do.
Aticus fights for his right but the whole city judges him for protecting a black man.
Yet he doesn’t give up.It is incredible as it shows determination for living the life doing what YOU think is the right thing to do and not letting other people decide for you.
And finally shows that is a sin to kill a mockingbird which represents someone who didnt do anything bad to anyone, and do everything to protect them
The story was so powerful and I do not believe that the fact that it is a play rather than a novel detracted from the story whatsoever.
This was a very strong adaptation, there was still a lot of detail and it was very fast-paced, though not so fast that you had no idea what was going on.
I believe that this is an important story for people to read, one that opens the door to how terrible racism really is and the results that it can have.
There is some strong language, but it is necessary in order to fully understand the cultural and historical context.
I just reread this with my Mom and we both LOVED it.
In fact, we just rented the video starring Gregory Peck, and loved that too.
It's the book's 50th Anniversary this year, and it's amazing what an impact it has had in our culture and in individual people's lives.
I can see now why it's so celebrated....something I didn't quite understand when I had to read it in high school.
Our perspectives sure change once we get a bit of experience and age!
I think it was very revolutionary for it's time.
A MUST READ for EVERYONE!
I had to read this as a requirement for class one year in high school and I absolutely fell in love with the story. The message from the book has always stuck with me since!"I wanted you to see what real courage is, instead of getting the idea that courage is a man with a gun in his hand. It's when you know you're licked before you begin but you begin anyway and you see it through no matter what. You rarely win, but sometimes you do. ~To Kill a Mockingbird, Chapter 11, spoken by the character Atticus"
The book overall is a really good book.
The suspense builds up a lot in some spots in the book and sometimes the story can be really comedic.
If you have not read this book it is a must.
This is one of the best books that I've read in a few years.
If you have not seen the movie you should watch that after reading the book.
(It would be best to read the book before watching the movie but both are great.) Just an amazing book and you must atleast read the first chapter.
You will get hooked to this book instantly.
This is possibly my favorite book of all time--I have read it every year since the 7th grade. Lee's style is so simple and apropriate for the story she weaves. The characters are dynamic; even after reading it so much, they still manage to invoke in me anger, awe, sympathy, empathy, indignance. My love for Atticus never dies! It seems too simple for me to call it merely a coming of age tale--TKAMB is a brilliant social criticism.
This is a good adaptation of Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird. The play captures the major elements of the book and moves the story along with a good pace.With any adaptation you lose characters and this happens here. While diehards of the book will lament the loss of some of these characters it really does not distract from the main story. Sergel does do the book justice and the play works well
Took me a while to finally read this classic. Can see the timeless study of people, societies, communities and value system woven so well together in this short, yet poignant tale. I didnt read it in high school and am sort of glad for it, cuz i don't think i would get it the way i get it now. Do kids really get the subtext and statements of the human condition and what is what? Movie is supposed to be good, too.
A little messy -- there's a whole lot of book to fit into a two hour play. There are a couple too many many plots trying to fit into one, and it doesn't QUITE all fit cleanly and neatly. The use of Miss Maudie as a narrator helps a lot, but can't make all of the ideas fit neatly together in the short time frame the play has to work with. As such, much of the play seems rushed and the resolution feels very awkward and unsatisfying.
I know I read this book in high school but since I don't remember at all what it was about, I read it again. I'm glad I did. After recently reading The Help, which is also about racism and segregation, and then this, the inhumanity and brutality of it all were doubly absorbed. I like a book that moves me and touches me in such a way. And what a neat dad Atticus was to his two kids. Unconventional but effective. Loving yet firm. Respectful and respected.
I read this book the first time when I was a junior in high school. I think I appreciated it much more this time. I was surprised by how much of the story (not the major theme, of course, but the little subplots) I had forgotten - guess I'm getting old! To me it was easy to see why this is an American classic. It does not seem to be dated, despite being written about Depression-era Alabama, and even though it was written fifty years ago its messages still resonated with me.
One of the best books I had ever read. 2004 was the first time I read this book. It could be perfection. Harper Lee paints a world I can see vividly in my mind's eye. I know what Scout's street looks like and how foreboding Boo Radley's house would seem. This is another piece of literature best revisited throughout one's life. You can learn something different each time. I have never seen the movie. All I can say is thank you Miss Lee, perfection!
2.5 stars. This is the stage adaptation by Christopher Sergel of Harper Lee's To Kill a Mockingbird, not Lee's novel. I suspect that most of the Goodreads reviewers of this play intended to review the novel.It's a clunky script, with a few glaring problems and many moments that could easily have been more deftly handled. Nonetheless, the essence of the story is there and the characters retain their complexity.
I had not read this book in ages but it is the "Big Read" this month so our bookclub chose it. I am so glad I read this! What an amazing book. It is all told from the viewpoint of "Scout," a tomboy, between the ages of seven and nine. It is mostly about overcoming prejudices in the south in the 30s, but touches on so many other subjects also. Highly thought provoking and beautifully recommended. I highly recommend this book!
I think that this is a very good book. I would definatly recommend this book to any one who wants to read a good book. My favorite character is Atticus because he is like me. I try to send good messages and be fair. my favorite part is the when the mob comes to the jail and tries to take Tom Robinson but Atticus say that he will fight them to the end. This book is good for any one who likes history, fiction, and any thing else that goes along with this book.
I loved loved loved it - I hadn't read it since school but I do remember it was the only book in O Level English (I'm showing my age now!!) that I liked. I just love the way the author pulls you in to the story - you get to know the characters so well and I felt as though I could feel the heat of the South. My favourite characters were Scout and Miss Maudie (I think that's her name)
