https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23125266-i-let-you-go
I will be so very tired today but it is totally worth it!!I have so many good books that I want to read right now.
Because of that this novel had been forgotten about until today.
When I picked it up again today I did find it a little bit hard to get into at first but once I was a little ways in I was hooked!
Jenna is haunting and felt very authentic as did many of the characters.
This was such a great debut novel and I'm excited to read more from Clare Mackintosh!!
Jacob, a five year old boy is killed at the start of the novel.
Our main character, Jenna, is the sculptor, no longer sculpting and mother without a child.
......Yucky uninspiring male characters......The 'side-story' of the detectives teenage son-- shows 'more' uninspiring 'men'.
The author even managed to turned a 12 year old BOY into an uninspiring character.
"Shame on me for getting sucked into this book" - it's nasty!!There was not one character in this entire book to be inspired about......A kid is killed : hit and run...The police dept.
Bravo!
Bravo Ms. Mackintosh for completely blowing my mind and making me an emotional wreck!
This is a hard book to review without giving away spoilers.
She runs off to a seaside town in Wales and begins to start her life over again.
The book then takes off and twists and turns.
Stop reading reviews and get this book!!!
The only reason I docked this book half a star was because of the pacing in the beginning.
I thought it was just a tad slow until part 2, but boy did part 2 make up for part 1!!!Highly recommended to fans of psychological thriller/mystery books!!!
All I will say is that the plot is cleverly written, with twists that I have already told you are amazing and plenty more surprise moments along the way.
Some might find a bit of a hate/love with Jenna I think, for me, I reserved judgement on her until the end of the book.
It has some tense, thrilling and shocking moments in it, some you see coming, some you don't, but it's not a boring book by any means.
Extremely well written debut and I look forward to her next book.Jacob is a 5 year old little boy who lets go of his mother's hand for a brief moment and is killed in a hit and run in the prologue of this gripping police procedural.
I really enjoyed the author's note at the end which explained how this story came about; its real life influences from her work as a police official and personal, family experiences as well.
This book was still extremely enjoyable for me regardless of the twists; I always enjoy a book more if it can stand on its own without the gimmicks.
I can't believe this book! And the significance of the words "OMG" written in the sand has to do with both my reaction and something in the book that I'm not going to tell you!  Headlights glint on wet tarmac, the dazzle blinding them every few seconds. Waiting for a break in the traffic they duck across the busy road, and she tightens her grip on the small hand inside the soft woollen glove, so he has to run to keep up. Sodden leaves cling to the railings, their bright colours darkening to a du
And the significance of the words "OMG" written in the sand has to do with both my reaction and something in the book that I'm not going to tell you!
People, if you have not read this book and you are planning on it!
This book takes a twist that blew me away!
Did she twist that book so freaking much that it resembles a pretzel?
But you can never leave the past behind, it hurts, it haunts, it finds you.
I so want to tell all of you every little thing so you can have the OMG moment with me!
How the hell did I miss this GREAT debut? First of all and most IMPORTANT: GO IN COLD TURKEY FOLKS, AND READ IT! I LET YOU GO all begins with an inexcusable crime that leads to an investigative division (with a story of its own) on the hunt. With a very subtle underlying current of 'something brewing' (that might be construed as slow going) there's another unexpected tragedy, a shocker of a twist, heartrending grief, fear, nightmares, and a door that won't lock.AND, despite all the great quotes
With a very subtle underlying current of 'something brewing' (that might be construed as slow going) there's another unexpected tragedy, a shocker of a twist, heartrending grief, fear, nightmares, and a door that won't lock.AND, despite all the great quotes I made note of, I can only use one that will give nothing away and tell you very little of this amazing debut, (but I love and believe it.)
"You can tell a lot about people by the way they treat animals."
Absolutely cannot wait to read I SEE YOU......only two more days, and I do believe I have a new favorite author!
(hide spoiler)]I thought the ending was just plain stupid because the police were idiots.(view spoiler)[They leave Jenna go home, without any police protection and don't even arrange for someone to watch her house or check up on her when she returns home to an incredibly remote area in Wales where she has no neighbours and Ian could easily find her which he does and proceeds to beat her.
This is an extremely impressive debut novel.The story involves a hit and run killing of a 5-year-old boy and is told from the POV of 3 characters—our main protagonist Jenna, the lead detective on the case Ray, and a man named Ian. Ms.
The highlight of the story for me was the gobsmacking twist (more like a tornado) that hit just before the halfway mark.
Ms. Mackintosh, being a former detective herself, is clearly well qualified to write a believable crime story.
I think it is an outstanding novel, especially for a debut author.
Thank you to NetGalley, Sphere Books, and to Clare Mackintosh for the opportunity.In a matter of seconds lives will change forever.A distracted mother follows behind her five year old son after picking him up from school on a rainy afternoon.
Gone is a young life and gone are the hope-filled days of a young mother.In the aftermath, Jenna struggles with the pressing desire to leave the city as quickly as possible and boards a bus to wherever the rolling of the wheels may take her.
Jenna makes friends with Iestyn, the owner of a small store within the town.
Is life finally returning to Jenna in small stages?But the calm and the peacefulness are short-lived.
Sounds like I couldn't make up my mind?!
The Welsh countryside was a joy to read about, the ocean sounds wonderful there, even if so very different to the sunny summers of Sydney.
Bethan was a character I loved to read about, I always notice the ones that are good inside.
Loved the way she took good care.
This is a great read if you do get the chance.
My read very nearly didn't happen, my library made a huge mistake on cataloguing this one.
I'm not the best cataloguer but I wouldn't make that mistake!
Great book.
Love being hooked like this.
However, I feel like with this book I need to dive into the plot and discuss more of the details because, man, I had a really complicated relationship with this book.
I should preface this by saying I went into reading I Let You Go knowing very little about the plot except the major event that happens at the very beginning.
And,man, like I said, I didn't know much about the book so I'm just along for the ride just happy to be surprised and twisted around a little bit.
Lately it seems like every suspense or psychological thriller is compared to Gone Girl.
I often wonder if Gillian Flynn is excited to see so many comparisons to her work, so many people trying to emulate that shock value or if she feels that most don’t live up to the epic twist that made Gone Girl so special, like I do.
I’m excited to say - this is one book that actually lives up to that comparison.
Don't get me wrong, this is an entirely different story, but it delivers that same level of shock.
WOW, WOW, WOW! I'm still utterly speechless and I finished this several hours ago- 3 AM to be exact. This inched its way along very unassumingly then WHAM... I was completely 'sucker punched'. Easily the best thriller I have read in ages. I'm anticipating this will be the 'it' book of summer so go ahead and snatch up a copy... NOW!
So despite the understated quality the book begins with, by the time you finish the book you might experience a little mental exhaustion.Although I hate writing such a vague review when I feel the need to discuss the characters and my personal opinion of them, and would like to have the opportunity to drop a few clues that would compel someone to give the book a try, I can tell you that if you like psychological thrillers and mysteries you will most likely appreciate this one and the cunning technique of the author employs.
The Line “I want to fix an image of him in my head, but all I can see when I close my eyes is his body, still and lifeless in my arms.
You don’t know where I’m coming from and need to read between the lines to know how I felt about a book.
Just so you know I really liked I Let You Go. I was hooked right from the gripping prologue.
Clare Mackintosh has produced an emotional read with a tenseness that can’t be denied.
Do not read the jacket or the reviews if you do not want spoilers though thankfully most of my GR friends were very careful.
Just read the book.
Saying that it's heavy would be an understatement, but it's one that is such an incredibly crafted story that I know it's one that will stay on my favorites list for years to come.
Jacob, a young boy, has been hit by a speeding car on a dark and rainy night.
What did I think?: This is one of the best books I've ever read and the authors ability to craft such a unique web of circumstances is truly an amazing thing.
Who should read it?: This is the best thriller I've read in such a long time, so if it's a genre you enjoy you can't miss this one.
Wow, indeed!!! Heartbreaking story. This book had my emotions all over the place: angst, anger, and then sympathy. Great book and that ending....!!!!Yeah, this book was so much better than Gone Girl in my opinion.
(view spoiler)[ This, of course, was because the mother of the child had almost no voice in this story.
With that said, the ongoing graphic descriptions of the abuse he inflicted took something away from this story.
Then asking me to believe after everything else that Jacob happened to be crossing this street that Ian just happened to turn on in the pouring rain in a fit of rage while abusing his wife without even realizing where he was...and the added identity...that took it over the top for me.
I haven't been this caught off guard by a thriller in a while. Finally a book actually worthy of its Gone Girl comparison- it is full of incredibly well crafted twists. I would have preferred the ending to be a little different, but gets a solid 4.5 rating from me.
“I only let go for a second.” Every mother's worst nightmare come true.This story opens with an accident that would haunt any mother for the rest of her life. Walking home from school on a rainy day, an excited little boy named Jacob pulls away from his mother's hand to cross the street.At that same moment, a car swerves on the wet pavement, hitting the 5-year-old, killing him instantly. A heartbroken Jenna moves to a remote cottage on the Welsh coast in an attempt to heal and start over.The ru
Every mother's worst nightmare come true.This story opens with an accident that would haunt any mother for the rest of her life.
Walking home from school on a rainy day, an excited little boy named Jacob pulls away from his mother's hand to cross the street.At that same moment, a car swerves on the wet pavement, hitting the 5-year-old, killing him instantly.
There's a HUGE twist about halfway through the book which leaves you breathless and disoriented until your mind catches up with what you just read.This is an extremely impressive debut novel which nabbed the Theakston Old Peculier Crime Novel of the Year Award in the UK.
Dang, dang, DANG!!! Well, color me surprised! This is a very well-executed and engrossing "thriller-lite" about a hit and run acccident with one of the best "I never saw it coming" twists I can remember. Very, very sneaky, Ms. Mackintosh!Don't read any reviews (after this one, LOL!). Just go get this from the library and thank me later. It does have a teeny bit of chick-lit flavor to it, but really nothing I found overly melodramatic or predictable. Hats off to Clare Mackintosh for my first genuine jaw-drop moment of 2017! Whee! Off to a good start for 2017!!!!
Absolutely loved this book!!
But her grief isn’t going to stay in the past for long… THAT IS ALL I CAN TELL YOU without spoilers.This book checks all my required boxes for a top notch domestic thriller!UK setting (SO MUCH LOVE)Heavy on the psychological aspects (YES)Just enough police proceduralSympathetic protagonistUnreliable narrators (MUST HAVE)Breath taking plot twistsCompelling mystery (UNPUTDOWNABLE)Expertly-cleverly-plotted writing (TECHNICAL TERM)DING DING DING…..We have a winner!
The book takes a minute to set up and you may find it a bit slow, but relax, you’re in good hands.
Yes. There's some dragging clichés to establish the plot, characters and background, sure.
And then there's a chick-lit lite cocktail to endure, and a main character that is too much of a Barbara Cartland English Rose kind of lookalike.
The first part of the story, while the plot heats up, was blehhhhh.
Too chick-lit-formulaic.
Let's face it, the British authors know how to drag me through the wringers.
Also, the personal experience of the author which triggered this story, the heartbreaking memories she had to go through, makes this experience authentic and true.
There are the twists and turns that I like in this type of book, some I saw coming and some I definitely didn’t but every single one worked in a story that is paced to suit the action.
I don’t know what the author’s next book is going to be but I could see this as being the start of a police procedural/psychological drama series.
The characters felt real and believable and the partnership of Ray and Kate, the police officers in the book, definitely worked.
I am not sure the blurb or cover appealed to me but decided to pick it up for a summer read and I have to say I really enjoyed the Novel.It was a slow build up and yet it held my interest from page one.
The Characters are interesting, the plot is strong with plenty of suspense and its the sort of book you could read cover to cover in one day just to find out what happens..........Its one of those Novels , Where The Least Said The Better, as best to just go in blind.A page turner with lots of twists and turns for readers who enjoy mystery/thrillers style novels.
The author easily led me down the garden path, then POW! Right in the kisser! I never saw it coming. Well done to the point of making any subsequent twists superfluous, in my opinion. Very impressive debut.
I seriously did not see that twist coming. Very entertaining. I think some people might be taking the ending too literally? The author promises it’s a happy ending, which is how I read it.
The characters in this novel are all so well developed that you quickly begin developing feelings about them, both good and bad.This is a police thriller.
Because he and Kate spend so much time together, he finds himself talking to Kate more easily about problems at home and with his children than he does with his wife.Jenna Gray is so upset because in her mind she is guilty of the murder of the boy.
She and Patrick begin spending more time with each other.
Thus ends Part 1 and begins Part 2, which I cannot say anything about without giving away too much.The novel moves swiftly from there.
