https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59763.Selected_Short_Stories
Well this is Kafka, and it is a pretty mixed collection.
His better known are better known for a reason.
Those are his more universally appealing and for me better written works.
I enjoyed revisiting some of my favorites which I read in my youth.
Some of the others which I had never read made me wonder if Kafka had those in mind when he requested his friend burn his manuscripts after his death.
-Just kidding.- But reading his stories came make you feel like a dung beetle, so perhaps he is to be viewed, in the end, as succeeding in achieving the desired effect.
"How much my life has changed, and yet how unchanged it has remained at bottom!" - opening sentence, "Investigations of a Dog""But all remained unchanged." - closing sentence, "The Burrow"The ordinary American knows Franz Kafka as the guy who wrote the story where the dude turns into a bug.
My life is more normal than I care to admit, and I cannot promise that I've absorbed Kafka.
So last month I came across this collection of some of his short stories and finally added it to the top of my reading list.Most of the stories included in this book will give you a good taste of the paranoia and bizarreness that are usually associated with Kafka's style.
Had this book included only these stories, I'd probably given this book a much higher rating.My biggest issue with this book is with the inclusion of three stories, namely "Investigations of a Dog", "The Burrow" and "Josephine the Singer".
These stories share the common trait that their main characters are animals talking about their personal lives, issues and paranoias.
It is refreshing in a way to read 25 pages or so about a suspected malingerer in denial, metaphor-ized through endless descriptions of digging.All his stories, are similarly fluent in describing a single instance that may have passed us by without impressing, perhaps because of its apparent insignificance in our daily lives.Kafka delights in bringing to focus the very thing we consider insignificant and drawing it out or questioning the surreal like in "A Country Doctor" or the raw criminality of the human brain like in the story "A Fratricide".The second favorite of mine was "The Judgement".
The need for others to sometimes help- especially to one who probably has helped us or our families at one point or another.A Common Confusion: I liked this story, and I feel most people can relate.
In conclusion, I think this story helps emphasize what I have noticed as a trend of Kafka's to focus on fasting and starvation, but it wasn't my favorite.Investigations of a Dog: I thought this had way too many side notes and didn't make one clear point.
Like so many things, I can't believe it took me until my 30s.
I've often felt a bit in the dark when faced with a Kafka reference but just never got around to reading him.
I'm glad I finally had.
While I didn't love each story some are so enjoyable that as a whole this collection is very worth reading.
I knew the rough story of the Metamorphosis but in its entirety is very engaging.
In the Penal Colony is so random (which is wonderful) and I enjoyed the Burrow so much that I can't even quite explain why.
Highly recommend a read.
I loved the book when I started reading it. As I progressed through the book, the quality (IMHO) gradually deteriorated till I couldn't even finish the last three stories. I would rather recommend the following Kafka stories that mostly form the first half of the book instead of reading the whole book and diluting your experience:1) The Judgment2) In the penal colony3) The Hunger Artist (My favorite!)4) The Great Wall of China5) The Metamorphosis
goat"Alas," said the mouse, "the world gets smaller every day. At first it was so wide that I ran along and was happy to see walls appearing to my right and left, but these high walls converged so quickly that I’m already in the last room, and there in the corner is the trap into which I must run.""But you’ve only got to run the other way," said the cat, and ate it.
Kafka is itself a research subject. His stories are so deep that they leave you to think endlessly. I love few stories - in the penal colony, a country doctor, a report to an academy, a hunger artist, the burrow and metamorphosis
When has Kafka been disappointing?
Kafka je báječný. Mám moc ráda jeho krátké povídky (úplně nejvíc část Rozjímání) - čtu je vždy v rozestupu několika let a pokaždé v nich najdu něco nového a pořád se mi tolik líbí.
Two stars only for "Metamorphosis" and "In The Penal Colony".
Droning on and on, breathlessly, relentlessly.Read through the book 'coz wanted to finish it.Kafka had mastered the art of focussing on a miniscule point of everyday life and dissects, scrutinizes, dives deep into the nuances...
If your interest is to zoom in into an everyday occurrence, or an instance; then Kafka is your writer.
There were stories narrated by a dog, a burrow animal and a baboon (or was it a chimp?).
I did not find much 'Animal Farm-isque' sensibility either!Is there a Kafka Appreciation Book somewhere?
May be one needs read that before attempting a Kafka.
'Coz on their own these stories only made me somnolent!
When a client says he relates to a particular writer and/or a particular story, you'd better damn well read it.
If you're in the mood to feel isolated and depressed, or maybe have a hankering to slit your wrists, Kafka is the man for you.
His classic story of a man waking up as a dung beetle?
A doctor whose life's work goes unrewarded and under-appreciated?
I found the Penal Colony unnecessarily long, but then again, so were Melville's description of the the whale, and I love that book.
I may just have to read Colony again.
I wonder why Kafka's characters always seem to die.
Especially that bug in the metamorphosis, why did he die before he could transform.
Compare this to Kafka, who depending on what you think is a butterfly sharing his gift (of beauty, imagination, mind...) with the world or is forever a caterpillar who lived a lifetime before his gift was truly appreciated or before his gift was shared.
In a metaphorical world, what is the affect of constant preoccupation with wondering whether one remains a caterpillar, remains in the chrysalis/cocoon stage, or is actually being a butterfly.
In a course I'm taking on Imaginative Literature, we were asked to read a couple of his short stories.
funny, of all the lit courses I've taken in my teaching career, I never read this guy.
( since Freud referred to his work often).
of course, I've read all of Poe, most of Shelley and the horror classics, etc.
I decided to read more and picked up this gem of 15 stories which are as good if not better in terms of horror as anything I've ever read.
Kafka's life itself is slightly skewered from the norm, and can be easily detected in his work.
Could these be the most haunting stories ever penned?
If you’re curious about what people mean when they use the term “Kafka-esque”, here is the perfect introduction.
Bloom’s famous criteria for the Canon – “uncanniness” – oozes from every one of these strange and fantastic tales.
A vague metaphysical menace, a lurking sense of unease and paranoia that is hard to put into words, are the thing here.
It was a new, very 20th century mode (although there are shades of it in Dostoevsky), but what is often missed by readers is the gallows humor, which was a key element of Kafka’s vision.
Kafka seems to be one of those strange birds, a lone, a social imbecile, who imagined a world without reality.
That's the only way I can figure to account for his originality.
Even the insane can be original.
He is one of the most highly overrated so called "authors" ever to be foisted upon the mind of man.
He even expressed his wish that upon his death his manuscripts be burned because they were worthless.
Instead, his Executor of his will violated his duty to his testator, God and man, and violated his responsibility by publishing this excrement.
My only previous experience with Kafka was Metamorphosis, which is included in this collection. Some of these stories were unfinished when Kafka died, others were probably finished but not in final draft form, so it's hard to say what they would have become if he'd continued to work on them. The stories that are complete show a writer that I think would do very well in today's world, filling his stories with symbolism, dysfunctional families, and lots and lots of angst.
All I knew of Kafka was Metamorphosis and The Trial. This book held areas of Kafka's twisted brain I'd never explored, and I'm glad I did. The Penal Colony, A Hunger Artist, and The Burrow were especially good. I was intrigued by Investigations of a Dog, but 30 pages inside the mind of a curious canine were a bit much. Worth the read.
Yes, this book contains Kafkas Metamorphosis. You know, guy wakes up and cant get out of bed because hes a cockroach. But it also contains stories told in the perspective of a gorrilla who teaches himself to speak english in order to be freed from captivity in a cargo ship, a neurotic groundhog who can't be satisfied with his burrow and a sad, lonely stray dog, wondering when his days will end.
The JudgementThe MetamorphosisIn the Penal ColonyThe Great Wall of ChinaA Country DoctorA Common ConfusionThe New AdvocateAn Old ManuscriptA FratricideA Report to an AcademyThe Hunter GracchusA Hunger ArtistInvestigations of a DogThe BurrowJosephine the Singer, or the Mouse Folk
I was intrigued after reading Metamorphosis and chose to do a report about Kafka as a writer. Getting into his short stories without expectation, I found that I was entranced by his writings, the settings so geographically different while the storylines remain easy to relate to. It is easy to get lost in his writings like a dream.
I read this book b/c I had heard so many raves about Metamorphosis. I read a variety of his short stories including 'The Penal Colony', 'The Great Wall', 'Fratricide', etc. and I was sorely disappointed by all of them, especially 'Metamorphosis'. The stories were so bad that I could not finish the whole book.
I don't think I'd ever read that much of Kafka before, but I always remembered liking The Metamorphosis, In the Penal Colony, and A Hunger Artist. While I still enjoy those, a good number of the stories in this collection were a real slog (The Burrow, Investigations of a Dog) and others were too short to make much of an impression on me at all.
“The Judgment” [7]“The Metamorphosis” (1915) [10]“In the Penal Colony” [8]“The Great Wall of China” [7]“A Country Doctor” [9]“A Common Confusion” [8]“The New Advocate” [10]“An Old Manuscript” [7]“A Fratricide” [8]“A Report to the Academy” [9]“The Hunter Gracchus” [8]“A Hunger Artist” [7]“Investigations of a Dog” (7)“The Burrow” [8]“Josephine the Singer, or the Mouse Folk” [7]
This is a good book about a bunch of random yet controlled and distinctive short stories. It includes all sorts of kinds of stories from mystery to humor. Some of them may be true but most are just tales or made up stories. It is a 328 page book with long writing on each page.I have not read too much on this book so i do not know a whole lot about it so that’s all folks.
Kafka the neurotic... Love the Metamorphosis, the Furrow, A hunger artist, the one on the dog&ape. You can find similarities among these stories and feeling the pain out of the ridicule of the stories is quite the essense of understanding his writings...
I thought the first half of the book was much more interesting than the second. Metamorphosis and the penal colony really reached me, but I could not in any way be engaged with the rest. There were so many stories about animal perspectives and it did not move me at all.
Years after reading this in high school, I picked this up again. Some stories greater than I remember (Penal Colony), some not as great (Metamorphosis). Still what stands out for me most now is this: Kafka's seriously deep daddy issues.
