https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/869047.Biggles_and_the_Cruise_of_the_Condor
I ought to give this 4 stars since it's as good in its way as Biggles Flies South but I prefer desert to jungle.
Otherwise, the usual warnings apply:1.
Never travel without a Very pistol.
You'll need it at least once to scare the natives.2.
Don't expect the subsidiary characters to engage in conversation.
For long periods of time both you and the author will forget their existence.3.
There will be crocodiles.4.
The rest of the time they get lost.5.
They drink petrol and sometimes find human flesh toothsome.6.
Even without a hole in the tank, Biggles will run out of petrol.8.
A typical W.E. Johns.
If you give a real thought about a story of a Biggles book, it sometimes doesn't even make any sense.
The real success of these books is that they do not let the reader figure out that.
There will always be a interesting machine, long journey with not enough petrol, the villian with a better machine and a weirdly thrilling kind of an adventure tied up to them.
Who would complain?
I'm a fan of wartime side tracked stories...
and airplanes!
I've read only around 10 books, and determined to find 50 more or so!
There is a lot of potential in this story, and I'm not really condemning in for any reason other than the fact that I didn't enjoy it that much.With the Great War over with, Biggles and Argy are bored...no more fighting the Germans and life looks pretty bleak.
Treasure, in Brazil, but there are others trying to get it too!What I liked:-Biggles.
He and Argy's sarcasm made me laugh...and the way he mispronounced some of the Brazil words made me smile.-The first chapter was probably my most favorite of the whole book!-The scene where the ants are covering the whole plane.
uiteindelijk de schat te vinden, maar of ze er mee naar huis kunnen komen is een tweede.Een aantal dingen vond ik wel leuk om te lezen, zoals het begin van het verhaal, en de scene met die mieren die het hele vliegtuig bedekten.
Lange tijd was het mij in het verhaal onduidelijk of ze nu IN de berg waren, want beschreven werd dat ze de sterren konden zien door een spleet in de rotsen, en dan leek het alsof ze weer buiten liepen.Smyth was wat mij betreft een beetje een vlak personage, die eigenlijk alleen maar mee was als bagage.
My favourite Biggles book after the early WW1 books. We get secondhand aircraft, dodgy foreigners and golden treasure. On top of this Biggles has a rather funky amphibian aircraft to travel about in. Top stuff!
Unlike the only other Biggles book I've read, this is not at all related to WW1 and is slightly less aviation-centric.
Biggles' uncle Dickpa is some kind of explorer, who persuades him to come on an adventure to Brazil and Bolivia in the titular amphibious 'Condor' plane, and as such most of the story takes place in South American jungles and mountains.
This feels rather Indiana Jones-ish, which is no bad thing, but slightly more believable, educational and a little less action-packed than the movies.
Similarly, it's a little strait-laced and juvenile for modern-day adult readers.
Only 100 more Biggles books to go...!
Another great classic by Johns.Gripped from the beginning. A true Percy Fawcett type adventure. The jungle is described beautifully as are the animals. I really could picture the train of ants attacking the plane.

Many of the elements of the story also appear in one of his last novels, Biggles and the Blue Moon.
Here the city inside a volcano which is about to erupt recurs in Mystery Island, while the opening premise comes back in Biggles and the Blue Moon.The novel also has the more admirable qualities of W E Johns' writing.
The descriptions of the Brazilian Matto Grosso (its landscapes and its wild life) are very interesting and have the ring of authenticity, although his references to crocodiles are a significant inaccuracy.The story also never lets up.
When I was growing up my brother was a great reader of Biggles books, a passion which I did not share at the time.
I did read a few of them, and this was one which I remember reading multiple times, and which I still dig out every now and then.The Cruise of the Condor is one of the earlier Biggles books, in which Biggles and his friend Algy, bored after the end of the first world war, visit Biggles' uncle Dickpa and get caught up in an adventure searching for Inca treasure.
Think Indiana Jones with aeroplanes.
As others have said.This is a great story, of course its not realistic, its an adventure yarn!And se
If you want a book that is 200 pages of non stop action, then this is the perfect book. Not a page goes by without dangerous people, animals, weather, accidents, attacks or other action happening. As for the story, well, it's the typical "going for treasure in jungle being chased by bad guys" story.Possibly a trifle too long despite being a short book. It might have been one action event too many.I am pretty sure I read this in the eighties as well.
Biggles stories are the kind of relaxing, simple, light and very British war stories to read. This time however there was a difference, because Biggles wasn't working as a pilot during wartime. And this made him so borred that he went to visit Dickpa who led him into a completely different adventure than Biggles is used to.
The action never lets up in this, the first Biggles novel (as different from the first Biggles book which was basically a series of short stories). Suspend your disbelief and just hang on for the ride. It's not great literature, it's not always believable but it is great fun.
set between the 1st and 2nd world wars the cruise of the condor is about a experdition to south America to look for Inca gold. it teaches you a lot about the wars and the role planes played in them.
My favourite book as a child. Don't know how many times I read it. Inspired a lifelong fascination with South America. Action in the book never lets up. A great 'ripping yarn'.
Quite an interesting story, action filled from beginning to end.
Fun adventure story, but OH WOW THE RACISM.
First of the post-World War I books, this is a stirring story of Boys' Own adventure.
What a family that Biggles has: when he complains that he hasn't been threatened for a long time, it is enough to visit his uncle. And he gets a culturan enrichment too!
