https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9167506-maigret-se-fache
Maigret Gets Angry is a rewrite of Inspector Cadaver, where Maigret, now retired as chief inspector, is pitted against the smug, self-assured moneyed interests who feel themselves above the law — even the law against murder. These are precisely the type of people Maigret instinctively despises. But in this novel, previously released as Maigret in Retirement, has a much more satisfying ending. Here’s to Georges Simenon, who made things right in his 26th Maigret novel. For longtime Maigret fans and newbies alike.
Tout Simenon:Dans sa retraite de Meung-sur-Loire, Maigret est sollicité par Bernadette Amorelle qui 
Now an elderly lady turns up at his home demanding to see Maigret and assuming the great man was nothing but his gardener.
In the end although interested in the case and feeling the time is right to do some private sleuthing he is almost bullied into going with them.The plan is for him to come in and be inconspicuous staying at a local inn while assessing why the old lady's granddaughter drowned when she was an excellent swimmer.A terrific story full of all the aspects we love in a Maigret book.
Inspector Maigret has been retired from the Paris police force for two years, living quietly in his country home. An elderly lady drops in pushing him to investigate why her granddaughter, an excellent swimmer, drowned. Maigret reluctantly agrees to investigate and in his signature, dogged manner, despite unexpected opposition from the women's family, solves the crime. The case takes him back to Paris and he works with some of his former colleagues. A solid addition to this series.
A curious Maigret from 1945, with Maigret in retirement in the country being nagged by an 82 yo to investigate the death of her granddaughter. All about tensions within a couple of wealthy barge company-owning families. A milieu Maigret is not comfortable in.A good story, with all the old police colleagues, but why was Maigret in retirement (the second with this background, but he wasn't retired 50 books late!), and why, when he goes back to Paris, does he re-open his flat in the Place des Vosges, when we know he always lived in Rue Richard-Lenoir?
The story is complex with an ex-school friend of Maigret (now very rich), his brother, and numerous relatives all mixed up in a sordid tale around money.
Maigret's anger is directed mostly at the scion of the old family - now a pathetic 75 year old man - who has covered up multiple murders in the name of a quiet life and to avoid the loss of his fortune (although not his influence or self respect).
This Maigret has a rather neatly tied together plot - something which is not always the case in a Maigret book. It seems to be a recurring theme in these novels that the wealthy and powerful are more likely to be morally corrupt, and while this is partially the case here it is more of a family drama than a work of social criticism. It is curious that Maigret here is brought out of retirement, but in later novels he is an active Chief Inspector. It seems that the books can be read in any order.
3,5
These books are soooo good. It's not really the plots, it's the character of Maigret himself-the original gloomy detective. I bet a lot of Swedish Noir writers were influenced by him. Wonderful
I don't think I'm quite sure what happened...
He is visited by 82-year-old Bernadette Amorelle, whose granddaughter has drowned in mysterious circumstances.
Mme. Amorelle suspects murder and demands that Maigret get to the bottom of the mystery.
Intrigued by this imperious old woman, Maigret passively allows himself to accompany her to Orsenne, the town where her family lives.
But of course Maigret eventually uncovers a skein of lies, relationships that are not what they seem, and family members who seem to live in fear of...something or someone."Maigret Gets Angry" features perhaps one of the most villainous characters in Simenon's repertoire, a person who lives primarily for money and who will do anything to gain more of it.

By page two I was reeled in and couldn't wait to see how Maigret would manage to solve this puzzle. The old woman summoned him, but no one really wanted him poking his nose into their family business. With a stunning flourish at the end of the story, all is laid bare. I love how this author uses so few words to tell us a tangled up story, searching for the truth and always wondering who is hiding something, and how does he always guess what it is!
It looks like another attempt to end the Maigret series (though there are fifty more stories in the series). JM has retired with Mme and moved to the country with his cabbages - but a feisty old lady sucks him back in (one more time). He does his wonderful "inhaling the atmosphere" thing, He visits the old gang. Lucas is now in charge, and Janvier and Torrence make appearances. The story is great. The characters are sympathetic or hateful and justice is done. Sweet.
Not one of my favorite Maigret novels. I never felt that I really got to get to know the characters, and the mystery itself felt a bit contrived. A lot of the drama, I suspect, is dependent on a more nuanced understanding of social class and social cues in 1940s France than I possess. For those readers with such knowledge, the book may well hold subtle delights.
Maigret, in pensione da due anni, viene cercato da una ottantaduenne signora che sospetta di un genero privo di scrupoli.....Maigret lascia le sue melanzane nell'orto e parte per questa nuova avventura
I enjoyed this more than most Maigret novels. I think the different setting -- if one can call Maigret being retired that -- allowed less formulaic details.
Definitely the best Maigret I have read so far. Great story and the ending with an octogenarian murderess was inspired. The characters were once again horrible and deeply flawed people.
As always, Simenon has a good yarn, and a highly likable character, Maigret, pipe and all, he follows around.
Another good one well worth a read.
