https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1329611.King_David_s_Spaceship
OK, first of all, when you see the title "King David's Spaceship", don't you think about King David from the Bible?
I was thinking maybe David defeats Goliath, becomes king, and then decides to really kick some Philistine ass by sending a rocket to the moon.
I bought this book because I was intrigued by the idea of a relatively backwards civilization building a spaceship, but most of the book is taken up with various tangential adventures.
The actual spaceship building only takes a few dozen pages in the book, it doesn't go into much detail, and I had pretty much lost interest in the story by that point anyway.
'A Spaceship for the King' was the title of the original serial version in Analog Magazine.
Jerry added a few new scenes when it was packaged as a novel and published under the title 'King David's Spaceship'.
The book is interesting for the characters and the environment.
On one hand you have the Empire, star-faring and re-uniting worlds after the collapse, and the out worlds that have collapsed back to pre-industrial civilizations.
The juxtapositions of these technologies is striking, but the strongest comparisons is between the technological levels of two fallen civilizations.
A good read and good value for the money.
1982 grade B+aka King David's Spaceship
Trying to remember when I first read this book, this may have very well been my first encounter with the "hard sci-fi" genre, though looking back I wouldn't firmly put this book on that side of the aisle.
I picked it up because I really wanted to read "The Mote in God’s Eye" and "The Gripping Hand" and someone suggested I start with this one first.
To this day I don't know why.
It was recommended to me in a backwards way that unfortunately biased me against the story: someone suggested it resembles Greece's 400 years of slavery and the eventual rebellion.

Pournelle, who has recently died, wrote this book in 1980, and parts of it suffer from its age.
For example, he tries to have a strong female character, but she violates Bechdel's test repeatedly and ends up the 20-something consort to the 50-something hero [buzzer sound followed by ejection-seat sound].
And the treatment of pseudo-Islamic characters is ignorant and offensive.
And a kriss knife seems to be a rip off of Herbert's crysknife - so there's a bit of derivative thinking here.
But there are some good concepts and Pournelle's battle scenes, especially the one fought at sea, are swashbuckling and exciting.
I was in the midst of reading A Spaceship For The King when I heard of Jerry Pournelle's passing.
Very saddened for our loss of another great writer; I will miss his Chaos Manor musings.It appears by the comments left here, that this book was expanded under a new name: King David's Spaceship.This DAW paperback appears to be the serial only, as it ends (view spoiler)[before they get off Makassar and return to Prince Samual's World and build a spaceship.
(hide spoiler)]This book was an enjoyable read, if not quite up to the standards of some of his other work.
I read it a chapter or two at a time, trying to capture the serial format it originally appeared in.
Scifi story where following the collapse of a galactic empire a planet just re-discovering steam power is conquered by people on a space-faring world. If they are not to be relegated to being a second-class colony world they need to demonstrate their technological advancement by building a spaceship.Intrigue, interstellar travel, battles with primitive weapons, interesting characters, just a fun read. Might give it five stars if it were available on ebook.
I've enjoyed the books he wrote with Larry Niven, but I've only read a bit of Pournelle's writing without Niven as a partner.Since reading it, I've called A Mote in God's Eye the greatest Star Trek adventure ever written.
The "Federation" has a prime directive.
A technologically immature planet works for an advantage, skating around the edge of the Prime Directive.
Pournelle writing solo reads a lot like Niven-Pournelle, although there are fewer big ideas here than in the typical N-P team written novel.--Make energy cheap and plentiful, and people will figure ways to use it.
This is old-school, old fashioned science fiction. With space ships, and swords. The characters are a little thin, but the pace is quick, and the everything moves right along. The plot is fairly preposterous, but fun. If it written in 2017, it wouldn't fly. But for it's time, it's fine, and nostalgic.
Cheesy but fun. I have a special place in my heart for this sort of Sci Fi.
Great!Great introduction to the universe of CoDominium. And it is a fun and fast-paced reading. I'm highly recommending it to readers.
Of course, spending a minute on google let me discover that "Mote" was actually book two in a series.
Things have since settled down at the seat of power and a new Empire of Man has formed and has sent out ships to find the various planets and bring them back into the fold.
This process is the meat of the book as we read about Prince Samual's World, a newly re-discovered world that is grappling with the sudden appearance of space-travelers.
Through a bit of intrigue, they discover that planets that have already spaceship tech are brought into the Empire at a much elevated status.
They discover what the Empire intends for them, and also discover that worlds with spaceflight capability are not made into colonies, but are instead granted Empire member status, which includes representation in the Empire and technology transfers to help boost their economy.
What I've just described would make an excellent story all on its own, with the focus on both the politics of the situation and the potential character-development.
However, the author seems to want to tell several different stories, including one about sailing boats, one about warfare in pre-industrial societies, one about politics, one about religion, and only a very minor one about an industrial revolution society making a spaceship.
King David's Spaceship by Pournelle is a little slice of awesome.
Steam Punk meets both low and high tech.
Rebuilding the empire and bringing all worlds back until control, the empire was not kind to low tech worlds.
King David's was world one such world, but they were determined not to follow the same path.
Can they build and launch a spaceship, forcing the empire to live up to there own rules, with nineteenth century technology?
Well that and little espionage wouldn't hurt either.I thought Pournelle's treatment of differing levels of tech was excellent, and gave the story unexpected twists.
King David is trying to do the same to his miserably fallen planet but they have lost the technologies.When the empire's forces re-appear, they offer a route back to the old technologies, but with a heavy price.
For those planets that cannot demonstrate orbital flight, only a very second class membership in the new empire (with little of the technology) is offered.Colonel Nathan McKinnie, recently cashiered from the loyal planetary forces, after their defeat by the new empire, will lead an expedition and then a project aimed at achieving first class membership.Lots of swashbuckling action in sort of medieval fighting juxtaposed with the realities of the technology available from the new empire.

Great sci-fi; Pournelle is one of my favourite old sci-fi authors.
This and his Falkenburg novels (set in the same universe much earlier) are all fantastic stuff.
Looks at different cultures and the difficulties of integrating different levels of of technology, something that was very relevant at the time of publication (the vignette about a planet which accepted medical technology but not agricultural is a commentary on the similar situation in Africa at the time, though the helpless bafflement of the characters as to a solution is not, perhaps, helpful).Simple but direct and definitely worth reading, if you can find a copy.
In the same universe as Pournelle/Niven used in The Mote In God's Eye, we are transported to a set of pre-space faring worlds.There is reference to the discovery of the Moties in the last part of this story.
I was disappointed with this story in that it lacked the use of too much technology, but it does deal with the ramifications of the introduction of advance technologies into a more primitive civilization.
Kind of why Star Fleet has their prime directive.
I did notice that Alderson shares in book dedication.It wasn't a great book, but it was worth the single read.
Not a re-read.
Good:- Nice to read a story where the goal is not to safe a world from disaster, but to build a spaceship so the world gets a higher place in the empire.- The strategical and tactical qualities of MacKinnie and Hal are shown well.Bad:- Even contemplating to create a spaceship when you are still fighting with swords is a real stretch.- To me, the emotions felt mostly flat. Sure, I hoped the characters would achieve their goal, but they stayed at a distance, making it hard to feel bonded to them.
Pournelle does a great job of telling stories about how societies of different technological levels interact. This is a tale about an industrial age society that's rediscovered by an advanced space faring civilization. Just because they don't have technology doesn't mean they're dumb. I think it's great to read about how this lower technology world tries to outsmart the galactic human empire.As with several of the books by Pournelle, they feel a bit dated, especially with the attitude towards women. Still it's a fun read.
Typical Pournelle: fantastic world, awesome ideas, crappy writing. This was better than average, actually: the world showed, the goals of the characters were interesting, mentioning the moties didn't feel forced. Yeah, there are the usual flat characters and the shaky plot progression, the all-round crappy writing, and the horrible portrayal of the female protagonist (who might have been written by Asimov). But then, the whole book is kind of uplifting. And I love that world.
Meh. A strange and cobbled together story that is simply just not that good... Pournelle definitely has much better, although also even worse (i.e. The Gripping Hand -- which is in the same Universe as this story). Makes me wonder if I should re-read Mote in God's Eye to see if it is a good as my teen-aged memories remember it being. I've certainly changed my views on books before over the years.
A good bit of classic SF. King David's Spaceship is entertaining and provocative. However, it contains just enough old-guard SF (a'la Robert Heinlen's later works) misogyny to make it slightly uncomfortable. However, there's a hint of push-back against those dated gender ideals, even as the book doesn't turn away from them completely. The book also illustrates Pournelle's apparent fascination with pulse-rocket propulsion.
Set in the same universe as The Prince and The Mote in God’s Eye, this is the story of a human colony planet that has regressed technology wise. It now needs to prove that it can put a ship into orbit in order to gain full membership in the Empire. Mildly entertaining, but not much more.http://www.books.rosboch.net/?p=1138
By a co-author of "The Mote in God's Eye", this science-fiction novel of the moderately far future relates the story of a planet attempting to achieve space travel in order qualify as something more than a colony of the rebuilding earth-based empire. This empire follows a much earlier one which disintegrated in secessional warfare. A splendid adventure story.
EX-LIB. A SUBSTANTIALLY DIFFERENT VERSION OF A PORTION OF THIS WORK APPEARED IN 'ANALOG SCIENCE FICTION' UNDRE THE TITKE 'A SPACESHIP FOR THE KING', COPYRIGHT (C) 1972 CONDE NAST, AND WAS PUBLISHED BY DAW BOOKS, COPYRIGHT (C) 1973 JERRY POURNELLE.
Relates nicely to some classics. This story takes place around the time of Mote in God's Eye etc., Pournelle's series with Larry Niven. It's about a colony of humans on a backwards planet who outsmart the big government. It feels good.
Wanted to like it, but story, characters and believing in plot were lacking for me. Actually consider most of the characters unlikeable. Just my opinion.
baen ebook
