https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/55989.Science_and_Human_Behavior
Why do we believe what we believe?Why do we stand for what we stand for?What's good and what's bad?A
Reading this book for school, but it's a topic that would interest me anyway. Some of Skinner's assertions are hard to swallow (goodbye free-will!), but examining and explaining behavior from a strictly scientific perspective makes so much sense.
To save time you could really tear the majority of the book out and retain only the final part about culture creation and why rulers would want to manipulate and manage the behavior of their subordinates.
This was the science of the early post-war era: culture creation.
And a very specific kind of culture was encouraged to prosper among academia: from page 448 - "We may therefore find it necessary to change from a philosophy which emphasizes the individual to one which emphasizes the culture or the group." Peas in a pod, my friend.
In order to get Walden Two published, B.F. Skinner had to agree to write an introductory text as part of the deal, and the result was Science and Human Behavior. Since he wrote the text, an empirical science of human behavior has developed, supplementing Skinner's conceptual analysis in this book. Skinner's later chapters, in which he analyzes economic, social, religious, and governmental agencies remain illustrative of how his concepts can be applied to understand complex human behavior, leading to insights not forthcoming from conventional concepts and methods of analysis.
One of my "work" favorites.
Reinforcements do shape behavior... But not enough to explain away human thought, music, and art. Ignore the dogmatic extensions of the theory and one will find a wealth of potential.
A fundamentally important book for learning about the science of behavior and its general applications, for example, to Law, Government, Education and Culture. The early portion of the book describes the principles of behavior science as they were known in the 1940-50s, so somewhat dated. The latter chapters offer eye-opening ideas about how centrally important institutions can be understood and improved by constructively using principles o behavior science.
Scritto meno bene di quanto sperassi.
Outro livro que mudou a minha vida.
Sério, esse provavelmente é um dos livros mais importantes para mim.
Mudou a forma como eu vejo a ciência, as pessoas e até a eu mesmo.
Apesar de ser um livro extremamente difícil de ler, ele apresenta uma base muito sólida para o entendimento do comportamento humano.Demorei uns 2 ou 3 anos para entender tudo o que tem nesse livro, então sugiro paciência e persistência.
Mas, talvez isso tenha acontecido porque comecei a ler ele com 15 anos de idade e não estava maduro o suficiente para o conteúdo, então não desanime, talvez ele não seja tão difícil assim.
A classic erudition by the master of this school of psychological theory. While behaviorism is a valuable lens by which we can understand human nature, one still feels that the downright complexity of what it means to be human is likely best described by the universal wisdom gained from all of the psychological schools of thought.
Citado en el artículo de M. Vansteenkiste, R. M. Ryan, y E. L. Deci de  Capabilities and Happiness.
Didn't read that much about this subject and I think this book can give you a good coverage and a rich answer about the complexity of human behavior
This book was actually pretty amusing, in a dated, 1950s, behaviourlism kind of a way.
bla the book was okay I give it a 3 out of five.. The book had a good flow but was not that interesting I was referred to this book by a friend.
A little dry but earthshaking in it's rejection of little animiculi runningabout in our minds. Why does everyone do everything they do.
One of my two favorites of Skinner's work...the other being Technology of Teaching. This is a great book.
Review saved for later date. But this is a 5 star. In and out. Read it & form your own opinion, I mean will it be your opinion or will it be reinforced by my 5 star? ;) Go ahead and find out.
A very thorough and fascinating read.
What's nice about this book is that it's like literary science. dense in parts but he lightens it up with a little Tolstoy or Miller or whatever from time to time cuz he's a novelist too.
Another good study on why human's are bass-akwards.
