https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/449770.Cherry_Ames_Flight_Nurse
Cherry Ames, Flight Nurse is the fifth book in the Cherry Ames series.
I liked this adaptation to the series.
I know the mysteries in each book are there to give it a bit of a plot, but I agree with another reviewer who said Cherry should just stick to her nursing duties.
The series is called "Cherry Ames NURSE Stories", not "Cherry Ames Nursing and-detecting-on-the-side Stories".
Does her letting him on a plane and him just happening to NOT be a spy suddenly clear her if the huge risk she took?
I liked the descriptions of the suspenseful flights Cherry went on.
I noticed that they edited some things in the recent reprints.
For example, the very first page of the story tells of Ann buying cigarettes for the pilot of her plane.
I don’t like smoking at all, but this book was written in the 1940s and it’s meant to reflect its time.
It makes me wonder what else they edited.
Next time I will read one of the original copies and see if there are fewer mistakes in that regard.
My favorite part of the book was the beautiful scene at the end of the Christmas chapter (page 148 in the copy I read).
Fast, fun, nostalgic read. I had never read any of this series and bought some for a hot summer's day read. I am reading When Books Went To War and Cherry Ames series was a popular stateside set of books for girls. The books are fast paced and easy to read. Probably livelier than some of the heavy books mentioned in When Books Went To War!
An action packed book with mystery and danger.Being a Flight Nurse during WW II in Europe was a tough job.
A really wonderful, fictional account of a nurse during WWII.
Cherry has now moved on from being the chief nurse on an island in the Pacific to becoming a flight nurse, helping get men from the battlefield back to a hospital via plane and helping them on the plane as much as she and the others can do.It's also involves a mystery about a guy that could be a spy or he could just be a loving father.
Cherry is involved with that.
She also gets a taste of aerial combat, this time involving the Germans as she is now stationed in England.The books just keep being really worth reading.
My quest to read all the old Cherry Ames books continues with Flight Nurse. It isn't one of the finer volumes of the collection, but I always love reading the history of nursing through novel form and enjoyed learning about fictionalized flight nursing during World War I (seems cold, hypoxic, and with no supplies). I wish they would stop trying to make Cherry a Nancy Drew detective and have her solving ridiculous mysteries in every book. She make a much better nurse than private investigator.
I started collecting Cherry Ames books when I was a little girl. Written during a period when there was an obvious shortage in the nursing field, the books were written to expose young girls to the excitement of nursing coupled with the entertainment of a mystery. Good memories, but not exactly applicable today, especially in regards to the medical treatment and advice included in the stories. Still collecting though! And yes, I did become a nurse...
My second favorite book in the series. I remember being enthralled by the descriptions of wartime England and the privations they had to endure. I loved that the nurses adopted one of the English children as a mascot, but I liked it even better when they invited all the village children over for a holiday dinner and presents.
Another very cool chapter in Nurse Ames career. She continues her military nursing, this time transporting wounded soldiers out of war zones to safer hospitals for recovery. It's very adventurous and even a little mysterious! Too bad they are sending her back to the States. We shall see what is in store for Cherry in her next book!
This is the first chapter book I read.... loved it! I was 10 years old and asked my parents all kinds of questions about World War two. Sparked so much interest on so many tangents. Thanks Mom for this wonderful Christmas gift!
Oh, how I longed to be Cherry Ames. I’m still shocked I didn’t become a nurse, just because of her.If I had girls, I'd buy these books for them. Cherry Ames was smart and hardworking and she didn't go all googly over every guy that passed.
The best of the series IMHO! Formulaic, yes, contrived plots, yes, but with the previous book, preserved the heroism and courage of the women who served in WWII and were shunted off to the side afterwards....
the postmistress got me in the wwii mood. otherwise, nothing in common here.***LOVE the wwii propoganda... in the grace harlowe overseas books, germans are "huns," and 25 years later, they're "jerries"...oh, the period atmosphere!
This was my favorite of the series when I was a girl. (This was the book that made me want to be Cherry Ames.) I'm pleased that it still holds up!
This book gives s very interesting basic perspective of WWII nurses. I still enjoy each of the Cherry Ames books, even though I am almost 30!
This could be my most favorite of the Cherry Ames series. By far, it's the most realistic. And, finally there is just a hint of romance for her.
Good
I've been reading so many WW2 era books lately, I am finally getting a grasp on the differences between B-17, B-24, And P-51s!
I think this is the best one yet
Vill läsa nästa bok i serien nu men jag har för tillfället ett hål i min samling... Det får vi nog fixa.
One of Cherry's more exciting adventures. Again, she doesn't really provide any nursing care, but at least this time she's involved in a dangerous wartime mission.
This was my favorite so far. Incredibly thrilling! They were called the "greatest generation" for a reason.
I enjoyed this one more than the last two Cherry Ames books. It seemed to have more of a structure. While still not solving mysteries like Nancy Drew, this book included a possible German spy.
Enjoyed these books as a kid and am enjoying them again as an adult. Like the adventures that Cherry has. Looking forward to rest of the series.
