https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44895.Confessions_of_an_Advertising_Man
The first time reading it, I didn't really realise quite how relentless this effect was, until I found myself turning the last page.Of course the business of keeping paragraphs short is one of the many pieces of advice that he gives in the book.Ogilvy tells you how he runs his agency, how he gets his clients, how he creates his adverts and how, in his opinion, you can be a good client.
Illustrations are being phased out and replaced by black and white photographs and for the first time olde worlde cottages are being used to attract American tourists and their many dollars to Britain.I recommend the chapter on how to be a good client to anybody responsible for outsourcing part of their business operations.
So why not more than 3 stars?This was a book from a genius in the advertising field.
Also, there was a heavy feel that this was an American way of handling advertising, and not necessarily international.I do realize that this should have been expected, to a certain extent, yet I found it somewhat disappointing in crucial content.That being said, Ogilvy, remains in my opinion, one of the best word manipulators of all time.
Words captivate and enchant at the same time.If you are new to the field of advertising, or simply interested in knowing about it, then this is a book I would definitely recommend.
I wish I had read this book ten years ago.
I love the prologue from the 80's where he makes two small corrections to the book, as if everything else is totally un-changed.
I wish David Ogilvy had lived in the internet times.
I would love to know what the thought about things.
If you're in advertising, read this book.
Balance it out with a book about Bill Bernbach.
I was also surprised to see his calling out for reform - both structural and moral - and couldn't help thinking "oh, sir, if you knew how much worse it got." Oh, and if you own the rights to this book, Mrs. Ogilvy, I believe, please please please release it on the Kindle.

Extremely well written, Ogilvy was truly a remarkable creature. He was also, probably, a prick and a megalomaniac. Some things written in this book are outdated but I would still advise anybody that wants to start a career in advertising to read it.

Full disclosure: I work at Ogilvy.
Be that as it may, this is a book well worth reading, if only because so much of it is relevant today, if you know where to look.This is a man who was so out in front of authenticity, story-mining and storytelling, it's not even funny.
Read his Rolls Royce ad to find out how to mine for content hooks.
Look at his Hathaway shirt ads to find out how to create a character that could be a brand's social voice.
And read his stories about counseling clients to find out how to serve best interests.
David Ogilvy is, of course, a classic and a class act. Since advertising is my field, I took some practical pointers from this book, and also heard some of my own instincts confirmed (you have to love your clients like family, buy their products, etc.). But I think someone not in the industry would get something out of this as well. He was 'the man' during the great generation of ad men, which was an exciting and iconic time in our American culture.
اگیلوی در این کتاب نکات علمی و دانشگاهی به صورت ساده و مختصر در حد پاراگرافهایی داستان وار نقل می کنه . البته برخی از این موارد مربوط به فرهنگ آمریکایی میشه و شاید به درد ما نخوره ولی حتما ارزش مطالعه داره
The Donald Trump of advertising, both in success and ego.
Incredible read with insight into the mind of a marketer that is relevant even today. If you do any kind of marketing, you are going to want to get this book.
He should be the most persuasive advocate available, and he should be so thoroughly briefed that he can stand up under cross examination.There is no better way to demonstrate the agency is concerned with the client's affairs than by having the head of the agency give the presentation.American businessmen are not taught that it is a sin to bore your fellow creatures.No partnership can fructify without candour on both sides.Never stop testing, and your advertising will never stop improving.Underspending on advertising is like buying a ticket three quarters of the way to Europe, you have spent money, but you have not arrived.A good advertisement is one which sells the product without drawing attention to itself.
Charming from a 1950s perspective; quaint by today's standards.
The fourth problem is that advertising agencies still waste their clients' money repeating the same mistakes.
(1) Creating successful advertising is a craft, part inspiration but mostly know-how and hard work.
(6) The function of most advertising is not to persuade people to try your product, but to persuade them to use it more often than other brands in their repertoire.
I dislike passengers who don't pull their weight in the boat...(2) I admire people with first-class brains, because you cannot run a great advertising agency without brainy people.
But brains are not enough unless they are combined with intellectual honesty...(4) I admire people who work with gusto.
I took it in small doses, like a thousand commercials compacted into one book." Full review at my blog.http://tieryas.wordpress.com/2013/11/..._____First update I wrote about halfway through the book:Great book, not just about marketing, but a modern philosophy to life.
Some favorite quotes are:“When Fortune published an article about me and titled it: “is David Ogilvy a Genius?,” I asked my lawyer to sue the editor for the question mark.”“I admire people who work with gusto.
If you don’t enjoy what you are doing, I beg you to find another job.”Will write more on him later but put up some more favorite quotes on my blog.http://tieryas.wordpress.com/2013/11/...
(It's abundant to the point of nausea!)Two – Read this book.
Not exactly equivalent choices but if you are a true Tarantino fan you would do ‘One’ and f**k the literature.
Because you love books - you love to purchase them read them and form your brag opinions about them and that's ok but it would be real nice if you gave some of your f**cks to Tarantino anyway.
He likes that, you know.PS: Quentin Tarantino (Django Unchained, Pulp Fiction etc.
)- the most influential filmmaker of our generation never went to any film school.
Watching films were his school.
where to start?1- I have never, ever, underlined so much in one single book, not even during my school time.
If you work in advertising there is so much good stuff in here that it should be a must-read for any new employee of any ad agency (or marketing position inside a company).
2- if you're into Mad Men, THIS IS IT: David Ogilvy was a Madison Avenue ad man in the 50s and 60s, among drunken lunches, awards and 80 hours working weeks.What a great, timeless book!I'm pretty sure I will re-read time from time to time.
David: I've got a man crush on you.
Never before have I so wanted to throw a book across the room whilst reading it. For someone who claims to love simplicity of language or things simply put, at one stage I thought he was actually making words up. But as a self anointed genius - why wouldn't he be? Emoluments? Odium? Pettifoggers? Suzerainty? Wanker.I know it was 1962, but apart from a couple of little gems within, the work of this outdated, egotistical, misogynist sociopath needs to be locked in a time capsule and shot into outer space. What a tool.
I want to love this, because I'm supposed to, but it's really starting to get a little dated. There are a few essential guidelines here about being an honest, forthright businessperson, but the culture of the consumer has changed so radically in the 50 years since this book was published that the rest of it is sometimes hard to find an application for. Still, Ogilvy's personality makes it a fun read, and it will always be essential reading if you're in the advertising business.
When my coworkers saw this on my desk, two of them separately noted surprise I hadn't already read it. It's certainly insightful, and a nice (accidental) companion piece to my current Mad Men adoration. While the tone is just a little too self-congratulatory, Ogilvy fills his text to the brim with the sort of anecdotes and lists of rules you'd want in such a book. Highly recommended for anyone in love with/critical of American capitalism!
Even today (in 2012), this insight is brilliantly accurate:"I have never wanted to get an account so big that I could not afford to lose it. The day you do that, you commit yourself to living with fear. Frightened agencies lose the courage to give candid advice; once you lose that, you become a lackey."In my software/web startup experience over the last 12 years, this is absolutely true. Putting yourself and your company in this position will result in inevitable failure.
The perfect blend of style, experience, and research, this book presents the essential qualities of advertising, both the personal, practical, and formal. But it a book to be discussed, not chewed privately. The tone is conversational and the insights have little regard for theory or numbered steps or formulas for success in the field; they must be run through verbally.The author's candor and stolid excellence as a writer more than qualify him as a master of his field.
Creative genius or not, David Ogilvy was a bit too pompous for my taste. Add to that overt misogynistic comments and outdated rules for creating advertising, and this book took me straight to Yawnsville. Although, I did really enjoy the bit about not treating your consumer like a moron. That still makes perfect sense.
Certainly interesting, oftentimes intriguing, especially for marketeers.But, many of the tissues and practices that Ogilvy broaches are outdated, and hence the significance of the book lies in its historical context. Also, Ogilvy himself more often than not come through as a snotty and snob individual, which kind of diminishes the enjoyment of the book.
Not as applicable as it was, say, 50 years ago, but there are some quality nuggets of advice lurking within these pages. Well worth the read, if but from a historical perspective.
Probably the best book I've read in years. Took it with me across Europe and couldn't put it down. I took several pages of notes just on the first chapter.
Advertising and marketing would be a very different beast if copywriters and ad agencies followed the principles in this book. It's a masterwork for a reason. Read it. Do it. Sell more.
Written in 1963 and still providing value!The principles and fundamentals that Ogilvy shares in this book will allow you to create value in any area of your career.
You will also learn about how to advance your career by developing strong relationships with your clients as well as with the people you work with.
One thing that stood out is that Ogilvy states that he always practices before making a presentation to a client.
More often than not when people start to advance their careers they seem to forget what got them there.
Ogilvy's "Confessions" didn't disappoint - he looks back at both his career and the advertising industry with a critical eye, and his frankness adds a dose of humor that makes this autobiography even more remarkable. Despite the book's age, creative professionals today will do well to heed David's advice on both crafting copy and building up your business."Search all your parks in all the cities.You'll find no statues of committees." - David Ogilvy
Ogilvy's "Confessions" didn't disappoint - he looks back at both his career and the advertising industry with a critical eye, and his frankness adds a dose of humor that makes this autobiography even more remarkable. Despite the book's age, creative professionals today will do well to heed David's advice on both crafting copy and building up your business."Search all your parks in all the cities.​You'll find no statues of committees." - David Ogilvy
This is one of the best books on advertising I have ever read. After years of studying copywriting, I enjoyed all the references to Claude Hopkins. So it's a wonderful confirmation that David Ogilvy agrees with the late Gary Halbert. Every chapter in this book is filled with useful and practical lessons in business, advertising and salesmanship. I recommend this to anyone who wants to improve their marketing and the sales results instead of winning awards.
