https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1443522.The_Road_to_Hel
Using sagas, so called "myth", archaeological finds and first hand historical sources Davidson constructs Norse Pagan belief and customs pertaining to death, funeral customs, the afterlife, the spirit world, conception of the soul, necromancy and more.
Once again I'm blown away by Davidsons work.
Ellis-Davidson was strictly an academic and was not a Heathen as far as I know but if your an Odinist this and Davidsons Myths and Symbols in Pagan Europe should be at the top of your reading list ahead of any of the contemporary "Asatru" writers who are most often heavily influenced by new age, wiccan and judeo-christian ideas.
hi i like to learn about dead things and how we let them walk around like things and bury them under the fridge magnets the norse called rocks.
it's pretty cool.
did you know that the dead get jealous and eat their horses by the head.
oh this hilda was a bellkeeper she watched the bells and wrote about the norses and their horses and had such a dry way of writing down what is dying to be weirded out.
For instance, I think of the many Irish stories where people who recently died were seen among the fairies (which makes me remember reading about a Norse warrior whose relatives see Freyr welcoming him to a feast set inside his grave mound--not sure where I got this, and it isn't mentioned in The Road to Hel).Other parts of the book are more fun--specifically the accounts of 'sending forth the fetch' and the section on valkryies, hamingja and disir.
So, the way that I choose to practice my spirituality is to view the Gods of the Germanic tradition not as eyes in the sky and this very childish understanding of religion, but as pathways, pathways to emulate and to grow stronger through an example that has been laid down before us, an archetype that you can not only look to, to follow, but to make your entire life a becoming of that archtype.
The ancient heathens practiced ship burials, ship burial style sacrifices without human remains in them, ship cremations on the water, burials in the howe, and open air funeral pyres on land.
Introductory books on the subject always talk of Valhalla: a hall within the realm of the gods where the dead feast and fight.
Then do more fighting and feasting.
The Norseman had ideas of not only of Valhalla, but competing ones such as rebirth and living inside burial mounds and enjoying the treasures you are buried with!
During this analysis she talks of the many interesting characters that people the mythology: dwarves, elves, Valkyries, gods, disir, ghosts (which in Iceland are really animated corpses).
She does not however translate into English the names of works she talks about.
Great survey in regard to references in literature, folklore and archaeology to the Norse concept of the dead. Conservative in her conclusions, but also providing inspiration for further study. Highly recommend for a more authentic perspective on Northern thought.(There is a problem with typographical errors. In the e-version I read, this may be more pronounced because it appears to have gone through a document-scanning process. The problems are not significant enough to alter the value of this work.)
Accessible scholarship on a fascinating topic. So much story fodder here... I would like to know if the book she hints at, which mentions a further exploration of this topic by examining Shamanic practice in the north east and among the Lapps, was written?
I greatly enjoyed this. I learned a lot about Norse world view and death and it left me wanting to learn even more. There are no definitive conclusions but it opens up pathways of thought and I'd highly recommend this read to anyone interested in death studies, or heathenism.
Very, very interesting. Succinctly organized with provided commentary and analysis on "Hel", the mythological figure. I enjoyed how it offered perspectives on the underworld that I had never thought of before.
Very cool.
There are a lot of typographical errors.
Not the cleanest copy, but could usually figure out when the word scanned wrong.
