https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29124.Mistress_Masham_s_Repose
Maria has guardians who are plotting to steal her inheritance, when these unscrupulous people discover Maria has small Lilliputian friends they vow to stop at nothing to capture some of her friends to sell to the circus.We really enjoyed the descriptions of life experienced from a six inch tall persons perspective.
There were some parts that dealt with hunting and killing, some parts that made uncomfortable reading but obviously wildlife poses daily threat to the small people so perhaps talk of destroying young of wildlife has to be considered from the view of a six inch person.
Lots to think about and a great action packed story.
On a tiny, man-made island in the middle of a lake live the descendents of kidnapped Lilliputians.
On the shore of the lake stands an ancient manor, now falling into ruin.
In the manor live a lonely girl and her evil governess...Those are the fun parts.
Since this is T.H. White there is also much implicit social and political criticism, psychological observation, and tongue-in-cheek humor.
Even as an adult with a degree in history I had to look up several references (Alice Kyteler, the misfortunes of Caroline Matilda, et al) but I appreciated the humor much more.
Moral problem: shall I become a burglar?""Personally, I have found that the best way to deal with a dangerous situation is to face it, and to make it happen, and to go through with it, rather than to keep it hanging over one's head."They had not enough imagination to believe in six-inch people.
So, when a person who can think does come along, to tell them what they are doing wrong, or how to put it right, they have to invent some way of slinging mud at him, for fear of losing their power and being forced to do the right thing.""What is adamant?""It was one of the old words for diamond.
Maria is a 10-year-old orphan who lives on her huge, dilapidated ancestral estate with the vicar Mr Hater as her guardian and Miss Brown as her governess.
These are the villians, conspiring to steal Maria’s family fortune, but mainly making her feel alone & unloved.Neglected she explores and has adventures discovering an ornamental island called Mistress Masham’s Repose, in the middle of one of the lakes in the grounds.
The island is occupied by Lilliputians that Maria sees as her secret to protect them but also as her dolls to play with.
The people fear her knowledge of their home and feel ill treated by her games.
But it's a flawed story, and while I enjoyed it, I found myself skipping or rolling my eyes at chunks.It reads like an elderly professor telling a story to a favoured niece/nephew, and for all I know it was.
It doesn't read like something intended for publication, it's bitty, weirdly paced, very episodic, has sporadic digressions into fairly dry subjects and asides, and then finishes up with a rush of an action adventure ending, as though the author suddenly noticed said niece/nephew falling asleep.The pace is slow, the people mostly cariacatures outside the two protagonists.
Absolutely charming.
Indeed, White quotes people dismissively saying of GULLIVER’S TRAVELS: “Oh, that’s a children’s book, isn’t it?”	If you are a true Nerdy Book Club member, as I suspect you are, or you wouldn’t even be reading this, I encourage you and any of your young reader friends to open up this magical and rewarding middle grade novel to be enthralled by Maria’s adventure, as I was, once again, after so many years.
When she met cows, however, she did not like to be alone with them.” I can understand the feeling.
Perhaps that’s why I kept expecting this phantom cow (mentioned twice more, I think) to arrive on the scene at a crisis in the plot.
Like The Sword in the Stone, Mistress Masham’s Repose is a kids’ book that’s not really for kids.
Like The Goshawk, White’s wonderful little memoir of attempted falconry, it’s an adult book that manages in surprising ways to conjure up childhood.
I just love T.H. White, that's all.
In this book we get a caricature of his booklearning, bookloving side as a very absent-minded and poor professor, who at the same time expresses very sound general ideas.The book is filled with quiet humour, awareness of nature - it's not just birds twittering, White knows what they are called, where they live, how they fly and what they eat, and while that doesn't intrude in the narrative, you can always tell a knowledgeable person even if only droplets of that knowledge trickle onto the page.
This is the best way to use your knowledge when writing fiction, anyway - we want story, not infodumps, so you always have to know a lot more than you let on.The ending is happy and over-the-top gorgeous, but then this is a children's book.
I'm pretty sure I first read this from my mother's collection, but I now have my own paperback copy.Though the Lilliputian element obviously draws attention, and the discussions of their 'OEconomy' are interesting, I was most charmed by the descriptions of Malplaquet--one of those 'stately homes of England' that PG Wodehouse wrote about so often. Indeed, there's a certain Wodehousian flavor to a lot of it--not surprising, as Wodehouse and White were contemporaries--or at least had overlapping careers.
One of the great fantasy novels of all time, and a sequel! What happened after GULLIVER'S TRAVELS? This delightful novel will set your mind at rest. Any time you have a preteen heroine and an elderly hero you know this is not your standard thud and blunder fantasy. This book is not like anything you have read before, promise. And in a good way! This book should be far better known. I suppose Disney felt that all the talking animals in THE SWORD IN THE STONE were irresistible, but oh please -- some day, somebody dramatize this!
My thoughtful mother, remembering how much I loved _The Once and Future King_, picked this up for me at a used bookstore. I just grabbed it randomly off my bookshelf and I don't know how it is yet, but it smells heavenly - musty, old, cloth-bound paper smell. Mmmmmm.
I picked this up after reading "The Once & Future King" and found I liked it even more than I expected. Having been a long-time fan of "The Borrowers", this story was extremely entertaining and a really fun read.
Have read this one a couple times. There's magic in it, although I can't describe it. I don't like lending it out. It seems risky.
(The Secret Garden is a classic of the non-supernatural version.)The supernatural, or at least fantastic, world in T H White’s Mistress Masham’s Repose is one of miniature people from Gulliver’s Travels living a miniaturised eighteenth century life beneath an ornamental cupola in the landscaped grounds of a very grand decayed ducal country palace.What the book different from The Secret Garden or The Midnight Folk is its continual, knowing, ironic and camp references to English culture, particularly of the time of Swift and Queen Anne (Abigail Masham herself was Queen Anne’s favourite.) The people of Lilliput all speak eighteenth century English, with the nouns in capitals.The historic house itself is a major source of humorous references:The Gothick Billard Room with a ceiling in imitation wooden tracery with a coat of arms of all Maria’s ancestors.
All the bends were sinister.” Horace Walpole (Horry to his friends) was the leading antiquarian of his day as well as being a distinctly camp gossip.
One day, when Miss Brown was ill, Maria decided to explore Malplaquet, in particular the lakes.
Maria decides to explore this island, and on it she finds a race of little people.
It is through these encounters that Maria eventually gains her freedom and the Lilliputians are able to remain free from the clutches of people who would exploit them for profit.I found myself very impressed reading this book, and I was pleased that my expectations for a T.H. White book were not only met but exceeded.
T.H. White knows what makes a good children's book, and he manages to put it in there without dumbing down the content.
The Once and Future King is still one of my all-time favorite books, so when I discovered that T.H. White had written another book I'd never heard of, I of course had to read it.
Perhaps the maddest of his schemes was that, when he had been made the premier, he would choose educated people to be his ministers, just as one chooses a trained dentist to pull one's teeth out, instead of going to the nearest quack at a street corner who likes to scream from the top of a tub that he 'opposes toothache.' The professor was silly enough to think that if doctors had to pass examinations before they could cut out his appendix, then members of parliament ought to pass examinations before they could rule his life." p.
10 year-old Maria, an orphan who lives in a vast 18th century mansion, stumbles upon a colony of tiny Lilliputians (as in Gulliver’s Travels) living on a little island in a lake, called Mistress Masham’s Repose.
His Lilliputians speak an endearing formal 18th century English packed with Capital Letters, which makes few concessions to young readers.
My chief worry would be that young readers, turning to Gulliver’s Travels for the first time after reading this, would be disappointed.
It has been been completely reset in a type face designed for easy reading, and was printed from new [?micro?] film."The Illustration copyright is given as by Frank Eichenberg, and the copyright date is the same as the 1st edition, which means that this edition probably has the same illustrations as the 1st edition.If one looked only at the illustration, one might think that the hero(es) of this book was/were Maria, the Professor, the Lilliputians, etc.But a thorough reading of the book makes it clear that the star of the book is the estate of Malplaquet.
The premise of Mistress Masham’s Repose is a clever one - the travels of Lemuel Gulliver described in Jonathan Swift’s “Gulliver’s Travels” actually took place and that Lilliputians, captured on a later expedition, have escaped and have been hiding out on a rundown English estate where, for over a century, they have managed to avoid detection by living inside of a garden folly.
White fills the book with doses of English humor (which may go over the heads of some younger readers) and frequently goes off on rather esoteric tangents, which I felt slowed down the narrative.
White's interest in the problem of might is also important to the story, and his heroine, Maria, has to learn the responsibilities that come with relative strength and the dangers that come with relative weakness.White is talented at writing loving parodies of English life, and that turned out to be my favorite thing about this book.
Maria lives on the large and crumbling estate of Malplaquet, surrounded by places named Gloomleigh, Duke's Doddery, Dunamany Wenches, Idiot's Utterly, High Hiccough, Malplaquet Middling and Mome.
Some of White's best characters, including the Merlyn-like Professor who befriends Maria, are the ones who work to give children tools to confront the problems the world poses for them.
I picked this to read to Nick when I realized, on short notice, that we were out of library books for bedtime reading.
Equally important is how Maria, her friend the professor, and the wicked Governess and Vicar respond to their new knowledge; it drives the plot and provides some weighty moral issues to consider.
My one complaint is that this book is not really meant as a read-aloud.
Some of the digressions, amusing enough when read silently, are annoying to read aloud.
Especially the Professor's digressions, because he uses a lot of Latin and I can't remember how to pronounce all that.
Mistreated orphan Maria lives in a run-down manor, where her guardians, a governess and a Vicar, plot to take away her inheritance and keep her as downtrodden as possible.
On the other hand, I remember loving the story--I read Gulliver's Travels young, too, and I liked the characters and the use of the little people.
So this may be the kind of book that kids and adults can appreciate on different levels, like classic Warner Brothers cartoons.
But if you love language and wit, and have appreciated T.H. White's other work, give this one a try.
I hadn't a clue what it would be like.
It turned out to be just my kind of book.
Nesbit's books in the sense that it was just so wonderfully British and quirky.
I loved:The Setting: A ginormous, run-down mansion in the English countryside.
The villains were wonderfully horrid.
I'd love to read more of T.H. White's books.
The only thing holding me back from giving it a five-star rating is that there were sections that rambled on about random things I hadn't any clue about.
For the most part, though, this book was fantastic and so much fun.
I'm definitely glad I read it.
It's a delightful story.I didn't know what I was getting myself into at first.
The language is sometimes difficult to maneuver through and it took a little getting used to.
It has lots of big words, words that I didn't know, but it didn't matter because they were just part of making the characters who they were.The main character, Maria, is brave, curious, and honest.
Maria is the object of their greed and the plot is a maze of problems that Maria has to solve.
Fortunately she doesn't have to solve them all alone as she has friends in Cook, the Professor, and the People.White created a marvelous home in Malplaquet.
This should be a Classic.
A Children's Classic, perhaps, but it certainly wouldn't hurt the Adults.
And because I dislike receiving book recommendations, I'll just stick it here.Read it.I started this year with an awful case of THE READING SLUMP, mostly because I was under a lot of stress.
The only two books I could find on my shelf with little darkness and a happy ending were The Reluctant Godfather and this 'un.
I'm feeling much better now, and these books are partly to blame.We read to see the world.
We read to see other worlds.
Boos break our hearts, and books heal our heartbreak.
But sometimes- we just need books with really-truly happy endings.
If you like stories about little people, like the Borrowers and so forth, you will probably like Mistress Masham’s Repose by T.H. White.
The book imagines that Liliputians were brought back to England and escaped to a deserted island monument at a crumbled down old country house, where they are discovered by the last descendant of the ducal property owners, a little girl under the thumb of a dreadful governess and the guardianship of a despicable curate.
I learned about this book in How the Heather Looks and found it very amusing, so I immediately gave it to Hannah, who is also a fan of the miniature people genre.{Read more reviews of read alouds and books for kids (and adults!) on A Spirited Mind}
Totally charming tale of a spunky orphan with evil guardians, requisite crumbling ancestral manse,garden folly inhabited by tiny mythical creatures, etc. Think Joan Aiken's Black Hearts at Battersea meets Northanger Abbey, a little. This is what Lemony Snicket WISHED he could write! Much more akin to "The Water-Babies" than to Gulliver's Travels at all despite the fact that it revolves around the same Lilliputians! Great companion to Mitford sisters...and little girls will come up to you in Starbucks and say "hey, what are you reading?"
This is, basically, Gulliver's Travels for the better sex. Or the sequel to Gulliver, depending on how you want too word it. Maria is a young orphan in somewhat similar instances to Sara Crewe, and she discovers that inhabitants of an island on her estate. These are the Lillputts who were kidnapped. White usually the story to teach morals and ethics. There is some humor, and Maria, who wears glasses and is not pretty, is a perfectly realistic girl who likes to be pirate.And the dog doesn't die.
I can still remember passages from this book, although I haven't read it in over 40 years.
