https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22934446-not-my-father-s-son
Wilkommen, bienvenue, welcome!  Settle in for a story that is appalling and entertaining, hopeful and disappointing, reflective and sometimes ephemeral.  Life is disappointing? Forget it.  It is a good thing that this advice was not followed. Remembering seems more the thing. We have no troubles here. Here life is beautiful.  Ummm, not so much. And now, Meine Damen und Herren, Mes Dames et Messieurs, Ladies and Gentlemen, Ich bin eur confrencier, je suis votre compere…I am your host.  the star
Cumming’s experience as a battered child, coming to terms as an adult with some of the reasons for his harsh upbringing, and attempting to finally, decades later, move past it, is the core of the story in Not My Father’s Son. But this is not just a story of the father he knew.
(There is a link to the entire program in the EXTRA STUFF section below) Just before this process began, Alan’s father, long estranged, got in touch, passing along a disturbing piece of information.As Eli Gold and Nightcrawler - from NothingButMemory.netOne part of this memoir is travelling along and peeling back the layers of the mystery that was Tommie Darling.
After finishing this I wanted to give the guy a hug.I knew little about the book when I downloaded it* — I chose it because I like Alan Cumming as an actor, and he has that charming Scottish accent, so I thought it would be a good audiobook.Alan was a wonderful narrator, but this memoir was quite dark.
Fans of Alan Cumming would also like it because he shares stories of how he got started in acting, and explains why he has had so many different hair styles over the years.
Audiobook......Alan Cumming, Scottish and American actor, singer/performer, author, and activist....survived the most horrific childhood from brutal emotional and physical abuse.
He said that his difficult childhood taught him how to act by needing to suppress his own emotions and feelings around his father when he was a little boy.
As sad as Alan's childhood was - horrible painful experiences- ( and the storytelling moves back and forth between his childhood days and his adult days) - ultimatelythis is an inspiring/ empowering story.
We see what suppressing costs a person --and the courage it takes to make peace with abuse --breakthrough to live life to the fullest!
Very inspiring for anyone who has suffered from abuse.
Happiness erasedClouded by fear, humiliation, painDarkens my mindIrrationality, rage, violenceAnxiou
This is an incredible memoir read by the author with such an engrossing story of his damaged childhood and his ability to rise above it. I have always admired Mr. Cumming but now I know so much about him and his story is definitely one not to be missed! I highly recommend this audiobook.
Dear Mr. Cumming, I feel you deserve a big hug. Since the chances of me ever giving you one are beyond nonexistent, I say this: Grant, give him a hug for me, please.Sincerely,Wart.Full review to come. Maybe.
The book is anything but a typical celebrity tell-all.Through a BBC genealogy reality TV show called Who Do You Think You Are?, Cumming learns about his maternal grandfather – who died under mysterious circumstances in his 30s – at the same time that his physically and emotionally abusive father reveals he might not be his biological dad.Both events – which together have the feel of an ancient Greek drama – set in motion a life-changing journey that's full of heart, humour and hope.
But I should say that having read Not My Father's Son, I now have so much more respect for Cumming as a man and an artist.
Review of the audio read by Alan Cumming. Just a few thoughts I have to get down. Audios read by the author are always among my favorites. There is an honesty there that I connect with, and that was even more true with Alan Cumming's reading of Not My Father's Son. This was a deeply personal account of Alan's childhood, his harsh and violent father, his loving mother (I loved her name "Mary Darling"), and his forgotten and misunderstood grandfather. This is a solid, heartfelt memoir. Well-done.
The scars of an abusive childhood form the backdrop for Alan Cumming's Not My Father's Son. I really enjoy memoirs, but I sometimes have to question why I enjoy them.
Scenes from Cumming's childhood were brutal; in addition to outright violence, his father knew just what to do to make sure Cumming and his brother never received approval or validation for anything they did.
While preparing for an episode of the UK version of Who Do You Think You Are, Cumming's estranged and abusive father interjects himself into his son's life.
I’d love to tell him that in person and give him a hug.Growing up in a situation with a man who could (and would) blow his top at the slightest provocation, Alan had to learn to act.
Being that he can act and that this is his story, he did it very well and added the perfect amount of emotion at all the right moments.In fact, I could listen to him read Heaven is for Real, front to back, and not gag once…..or the phone book, the bible, the menu from Cracker Barrel…..he’s just that good.
Alan Cumming is a Scottish actor who's probably best known in America for hosting "Masterpiece Theater" on PBS and playing Eli Gold on "The Good Wife".
In this memoir Alan talks about growing up with a father, Alex Cumming, who was physically, psychologically, and emotionally abusive.
The book starts off with a bang as Alan describes a childhood scene where his vicious father yanked him out to the barn, threw him down on a table, and roughly shaved his head with sheep shears.
Alan also discusses his reaction to Alex Cumming announcing that he isn't the actor's biological father.
While the show led to information about his mother's father, Tommy Darling, a man who was largely unknown to the family, other events opened up Alan's eyes to the reality of his abusive father Alex who had been in and out of his life, mostly out, for years.I found that this book complements the TV show wonderfully and explains the occasional worn and frazzled appearance I had noticed.
It feels like there's finally the sun illuminating and warming your body.
All I know is that I am the product of all the experiences I have had, good and bad, and if I am in a happy place in my life (as I truly am), then I can have no regrets about any of the combination of events and circumstances that have led me to the here and now.” That's, however, it's part of the person Alan Cumming became.
I adore his accent, and having him telling his story made the experience feel so much more intimate and personal than reading it would have been.
This memoir is focused dually on two specific stories that intertwine - his relationship (or lack thereof) with his father, and his experience with the show "Who Do You Think You Are?" which seeks out lost family history - in this case, that of Alan's maternal grandfather, who died when his mother was young.
He loves and adores his mother, that is clear, and he thanks her for being the kind and accepting counter to her husband's controlling, hypercritical tyrant, but she failed in her responsibility to protect her children.
Re-read via audio book (finally got my hands on it):)Side note: First timeI saw/heard of Alan Cumming was as Nightcrawler in X2..
this was in turn a funny/heartwarming/deeply moving and suspenseful read.
Many times (and still now) I just wanted to give Alan a big hug and tell him I'm proud of him for how he came through this and is leading a good life.He's a strong person and a good man...
if one day I get the privilege to meet him, I will tell him that :).Highly recommend, words cannot do this enough justice *gives Alan a hug*pre-read:Coming from paperbackswap:)!!

I love Alan Cumming, so I was really looking forward to this.
Not so much a biography but a memoir focusing on Cumming's reaction to being told that his father was not, in fact, his father.
An appearance on the UK's Who Do You Think You Are was meant to reveal the mystery behind what happened to Cumming's grandfather on his mother's side.
Instead, an admission by his father leads Cumming to resolve long-held memories of verbal abuse.
Cumming is extremely open, revealing genuine thoughts and feelings that allow the reader to share in his pain, and ultimately, his strengthened relationships with his mother and brother.
Half the memoir is the same story told on Alan's episode of Who Do You Think You Are?, about his maternal grandfather, a man who was a bit of a family mystery, never returning to England after World War II despite having a wife and children.The other half is about his abusive childhood with a violent father, and how that has effected him today.
As our silence grew, so did our denial."Alan Cumming talks about how keeping this all in led to a mental breakdown of his own, one that mirrored one his grandfather had, the other character in the book.
It seems bizarre to criticize a memoir for being too self-involved, but that's definitely what this felt like.
There was a focus on minute details here that felt self-absorbed, like we were supposed to care about what happened at what time, and which episode preceded which at which precise moment only because it was Alan Cumming, not because it was actually interesting or he had taken the time to make it so through his writing.
Instead it felt self-indulgent.
I understand that memoirs are self-indulgent pretty much by definition but the best ones manage to make you forget that.
I listened to the audiobook NOT MY FATHER'S SON: A Family Memoir written and read by Alan Cumming.
Alan Cumming's father Alex was a man who held his family hostage, who meted out violence with a frightening ease.
Alex was the dark, enigmatic heart of Cumming family life.
Alan's maternal grandfather, Tommy Darling, had disappeared to the Far East after the Second World War. Curious to explore this mystery, Alan committed to filming an episode of the BBC's 'WHO DO YOU THINK YOU ARE?'Then out of the blue, his father called.
'What a shattering, compelling and extraordinary story Alan Cumming has to tell.
I have always like Alan Cumming - in his TV roles, his hosting positions, his dramatic readings, and his stage presence.
The story starts out when Alan was very young.
When offered to appear on 'Who Do You Think You Are" he received a shocking revelation from his father.
It is during his filming of that TV reality show that Alan was able to unfurl and dissect not only his own shocking reality, but also that of his Grandfather.
He has walked that proverbial, hard row to hoe, and came out a better man for it.
In Not My Father's Son the author reads his own book and tells about events in his own life.
I knew only that he was gay and that he had been physically abused by his father.We are given a view into a dysfunctional family.
For this reason the book cannot give its readers a balanced, impartial view of family dynamics.
The close tie to the TV presentation is another reason for my dislike of this book.The author complains about his dislike of media coverage.
I didn’t like this; it reinforces his partiality.People seem to love feeling sorry for the guy and for this reason love the book.
When you Google Alan Cumming the search leads to such descriptors as: “Scottish actor” “singer/ performer”  and headlines  “I act, I snap, I conquer”  and  “I’ll drink to that – Alan Cumming Sings Sappy Songs”  What you don’t expect to find when you crack open Not My Father’s Son is such sheer and utter honesty. Imagine the courage it took to not only face emotional and physical abuse at the hands of his father but to expose himself to the masses in this way. To say the least, this is not at all
When you Google Alan Cumming the search leads to such descriptors as:
What you don’t expect to find when you crack open Not My Father’s Son is such sheer and utter honesty.
Spurred by the filming of Who Do You Think You Are?, a documentary series that explores celebrity genealogy, Alan finds himself delving into the past.
One of the main points that Not My Father’s Son addresses is the hold that the past has on all of us regardless of whether that past is known or its secrets lie buried.
I had lost a father but found a grandfather.
Not only not his father's son, and not only a really interesting and appealing actor, but Alan Cumming is an openly bisexual celebrity.
Cumming's father - well, not his father, dammit - was extreme in his physical and emotional abuse of Alan and his brother, Tom, and there were scenes described I found difficult to get through.
Ultimately the way Cumming reaches his resolution with this is so satisfying (I'm not giving any details, so don't ask, and I'm not going to explain the book's title either) and uplifting that I needn't jump to his defense.
I did not encounter abuse such as this myself, but I felt like I was there.

1 DEC 2016 - $1.99 on Kindle!https://www.amazon.com/Not-My-Fathers...
הספר הביוגרפי שפירסם, מוכיח שהוא גם כותב מוכשר ויודע לספר סיפור טוב, גם אם מדובר בסיפור חיו וחיי משפחתו הקרובה.הספר מתרכז בשני קווי עלילה: הקו העיקרי מבחינתי הוא סיפור מערכת יחסיו עם אביו, שמעולם לא הצליח ליצור קשר רגשי ראוי עם בנו הצעיר: אלן קאמינג.
הוא גם לא הצליח ליצור מערכות יחסים תקינות גם עם אימו של קאמינג או עם אחיו הבכור טום, אבל על אלן ההשפעה היתה הרסנית כמעט: לאורך הסיפור מתאר קאמינג את עריצותו של אביו כלפי משפחתו מהמעגל הראשון וכלפיו.
התעללויות פיזיות ורגשיות שהשפילו אותו ללא רחם.
חיזקה אותו רגשית ועזרה לו לעבור את הסופות הנוראיות.
Alan Cumming's story of estrangement from his father is multi-layered and so rife with his own, individual voice that I was completely engrossed in his story.
Anyone who enjoys Alan Cumming on the stage will enjoy finding out about the life behind the performances.
I think that the man Alan has become is due to this story that he's lived and, for that, I am grateful.
So much of this book was based on Cumming's experiences in taking part in the British television genealogy programme "Who Do You Think You Are", that I just ended up getting frustrated.
I saw the programme.
I knew all the surprises and his reactions to them already.
I did not need it dissected piecemeal throughout the book.It was saddening to read about his traumatic childhood - of course it was.
But his continual cliff-hanging references to the genealogy programme drove me bonkers.I stopped at page 162.--------------------------------------------------------------Who Do You Think You Are?
Episode about Alan Cumming...
(not recommended if you plan to read the book!)https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IvdvJ...
This is one of the saddest Memoirs I've ever listen to.For Alan Cumming to be so open and truthful about the happenings in his life is awe-shockingly beautiful."Finally, the scariest thing about abuse of any shape or form, is, in my opinion, not the abuse itself, but that if it continues it can begin to feel commonplace and eventually acceptable"
