https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3432478-the-forest-of-hands-and-teeth
Make sure you write the book in a POV that distances us from the narrator.
Whether it be loving the ocean, loving books, or loving to whine, make sure it's only one hobby.
If you can't find something totally awesome, pick up a popular adult book.
If you don't know what special creature needs to be in your book, don't fret.
If you picked five, you've got a boring contemporary novel on your hands.
Why read a fantasy novel if you're writing fantasy?
Your boring love triangle is much more interesting.11.
Spend one week writing the novel.
Your book needs to look awesome for it to sell.
Now imagine that I told you and all those other people standing and smiling with you that I was going to kill you all so that I could go for a trip to the beach...Okay, now you know the basic plot of The Forest of Hands and Teeth.I've mentioned before that I have a love/hate relationship with zombies.
Kill zombies first, fulfill life long dream of of seeing ocean second.Yet, despite my utter hatred of the main character by the time I finished this novel, I still can't give it less than five stars.I can't give it less than five stars because I spent most of this book gripping the bed covers in suspense.
Mary lives in a village surrounded by the Forest of Hands and Teeth, where the Unconsecrated are kept out by a chain-link fence, and to the villagers' knowledge, they may be the last bastion of uninfected humanity.
And for all her suffering, I had a hard time drumming up sympathy for Mary.The biggest problem was that the author had too many ideas going on at once, and would completely drop story lines altogether.
And while I assume the author is planning one (or more) sequels, I have no compulsion to follow Mary's story.
Dear Mary,You went full Shane. You never go full Shane.Hugs and kisses, Kikixoxo
when the Unconsecrated break through the fences and start attacking the village, Mary has to decide if she wants to find another path to safety or pursue her dreams of finding the oceans and be free.
she's so bland and has an obsession with this guy Travis which is the worst fucking romance ever?
Mary had these thoughts that it's literally a baby who wants to be cared for, but she just tosses the baby out of the fucking tree and the zombie baby dies again from the fall and i was just.....
Present tense writing can do wonders in skillful hands (see Wake, Fade by Lisa McMann), but in this case this style was mishandled, it didn't add any kind of intensity to the story.
I do like it when an author leaves you thinking and allows you to come up with answers on your own, but in this case, so much was left to my imagination, that there was simply not enough information in this book to like the story and get attached to the characters.
Too much was left untold or just hinted at to truly enjoy the book.
I'm so glad she filled us in on what it was like living with her supposed ~love of her life~ hold on let me stop to roll my eyes okay there we go.) Because her character is so flat we don't really hear much of what goes on save for her tunnel vision over the ocean and nonsensical diatribe.
Please authors of YA, please give up this vague nonsensical writing you're all so fond of about the ~outside and the ~others and ~more and the ~future, it always just sounds like babble specifically from first person point of view.The main death in the book was about as predictable as what day of the week tomorrow will be, seriously.
The main characters live safely in a “Pleasantville-ish” village and believe they are the last humans on earth while outside the fence where lies the  Forest of Hands and Teeth, the “Unconsecrated” surround them keeping the people inside and leaving them no choice but be content with how they live.
But Mary, our main character is a curious (sometimes too curious it’s annoying) girl and couldn’t accept that all there is to life is their sorry one in the village.
I don’t think this will be addressed in the sequel because WTH, I checked it and it has nothing to do with these characters.

Mary is a shit. Let's get that straight from the beginning. As a main character I tried to like her. I really did. Did NOT happen. The story starts off in a small town that Mary lives in. It's ruled by the Guardians and the Sisterhood. The sisterhood: The book never really explained why the Guardians existed nor much of what they did. I actually want to know more about the creepy Sisterhood that everyone listens too. I don't get why they were in charge. Mary ends up in the Sisterhood due to seve
It's ruled by the Guardians and the Sisterhood.
I actually want to know more about the creepy Sisterhood that everyone listens too.
Mary ends up in the Sisterhood due to several of the characters in this book being asses.
I hate to spoil things so you have to read the book if you want to see why.
What I did not like about this book:I didn't really like any of the characters.
Damn Mary just stepped on everyone to get her ocean.
Things I did like about the book:The zombie baby.
Yep, I'm sick like that.So why is this book getting four stars??
I just finished reading, and I'm not sure if I liked it or not.
The plot held my interest, and it is not a very long book, so that is a plus.
I can't really say that I sympathized with any of the characters in the story, though.It is told from Mary's point of view, but I didn't really like her very much.
It was like she had to pick someone to fall in love with and he was the only one who was sort-of acceptable.
Even at the end, their love story seemed like it was lacking something substantial.
I did feel her frustration when she was forced to choose between two lives that she didn't want, but it soon turned into resentment.
Plus, the protagonist's constant search for male approval and even permission at times is cringy.Then there is the zombie issue.
You feel angry and frustrated at times but this just shows that the story has absorbed you.
And the non-scary zombies is just me, I'm sure this book would actually achieve it's purpose with many people and prove to be a very frightening novel.AND the title is pretty awesome.
“In Mary's world there are simple truths.The Sisterhood always knows best.The Guardians will protect and serve.The Unconsecrated will never relent.And you must always mind the fence that surrounds the village; the fence that protects the village from the Forest of Hands and Teeth.But, slowly, Mary’s truths are failing her.
Yes. They had a few scenes where they connect but I feel like I still do not understand why they are so love with each other.
With its intricate world, detailed plot, and gruesome action, Forest of Hands and Teeth will captivate many.Overall: Sad and disappointed.
alright, so before I get to what I didn't like about this 3.5 star book, let me start with what I absolutely  adored:  Mary is fucking badass, plain and simple.
Another thing that I really did enjoy about this book is how deeply you could feel the agony and throbbing longing from Mary, because it follows her around like the plague.
Maybe one of the two guys could have been the love-intrest, and the other one just a friend who *gasp* didn't have feelings for her like many books seem to think is what happens.
I really wanted to like this book because the premise sounded interesting and somewhat original and it was recommended by one of my fave authors.
Well, I wasn't creeped out and I didn't care for the book at all.
Mary lives in a confined village surrounded by fences to keep the Unconsecrated out.
What's the back story on Mary's village and how did they come to be?
What happened to Mary's parents?
There was one scene that I found disgusting and unnecessary.
The Unconsecrated baby that Mary found in the crib.
What she did was disgusting IMO.
The name of this book...
When I read it I knew I had to read this book!
The name was just promising...After finishing the book I was like: Promising name, beautiful cover...and a lame plot with lame characters inside.
The plot is not thrilling, neither is it creepy or fascinating or dark.
It is long-winded, somehow depressed and the protagonist is annoying.
Too many question stay unanswered in the end, the write style is boring and it feels forced...Maybe the second book is better, I don't know.
But I doubt that I will read the second book.
This one was depressing and boring enough...
Okay, pretty sure everyone is dead by the end of this book, no lie.
Had the romance not been a complete crapptastic catastrophe, I would have continued reading, loved it soo fucking much, and then cried to the point of my eyeballs drying up and falling out of my god-damn head, once he died!Harry!!!
I got some flash back moments of him and Mary, but for some bullshit reason, she'd rather have Travis, Harry's brother, boning her instead!!!
I got nothing, nada, of Travis, but she still pours all her love towards him!?!!?
This book dedicates the first third of it to a complicated love triangle/square and the set up of a society that's completely disregarded for the other two thirds of the book.
The love triangle is complicated and oh so important.
The author forgets she's structured a society and removes you from it and the love story for a run through the woods.
Frankly, I wouldn't have cared if the lot of living characters got eaten.
The main character was shallow, selfish, flighty, and utterly dimwitted...
I can deal with a lot but when I want to kick the main character in the face repeatedly I am not doing the sequel.
I realize that it wasn't Mary's fault, and she showed true heroism, but part of me wanted to blame her for how things unfolded.
Probably not fair, but kind of how I felt.*Mary was a bit too wishy-washy for me.
I realize that Mary is all about Travis, so I can see why Harry doesn't get much screen time through her eyes, but since they were best friends growing up, I could have done with more filling in of his character.*We are never told some aspects of the setting.
I felt there was good detail in some instances, but a decided lack in other ways.*But, I think the number one factor in my rating is the feeling of disatisfaction I had after finishing.
WTF......WTF......WTFI don't know if I can rate this book right now.....I'm fuming....I'm ready to throw this fucking computer against my cubby (if it didn't belong to my work).How could this possibly end this way???
Well, it wouldn't have mattered it there was a fucking sequel but ......
NO NO NOI go to the next book to read the synopsis...and it doesn't mention Mary (even though I hated her)- NO instead this is more of a companion book....So....we are left with:What happened to Mary?Is Jed dead or alive?What happened with Cass, Harry, Jacob and Argos?WTF, man....I'm so disappointed right now....UGH so many unanswered questions!Maybe after I calm down I'll come back and rate it.
Μόλις τελείωσα το "Το δάσος με τα χέρια και τα δόντια" κ πραγματικά μου άρεσε πολύ. Για την ακρίβεια δεν μπορώ να καταλάβω γιατί δεν έχει μεγαλύτερη βαθμολογία από τους αναγνώστες του. Έχει έντονη δράση, γρήγορη πλοκή, αγωνία, προσεγμένη υπόθεση, μυστήριο και καλοφτιαγμένους χαρακτήρες, πολυδιάστατους και με βάθος. Διαβάζεται γρήγορα και ξεκούραστα. Είναι πάρα πολύ καλό και το προτείνω σε όλους τους φαν της δυστοπικής λογοτεχνίας.
I’ve been trying to write my reviews soon after I read a novel why the emotion of the story is still fresh within me, but with The Forest of Hands and Teeth, I needed a few days to digest.
Carrie Ryan has crafted an outstanding debut novel.
You almost feel the anguish and entrapment as much as she does, although at times I felt she was a very selfish character.There were so many questions that were left unanswered, some that were touched upon, but not fully divulged.
Overall The Forest of Hands and Teeth is a notable debut novel.
This book is the embodiment of so many things I hate.
If you hated that movie, you will hate this book2.
The fact that, even though this story presumably takes place sometime in the future, people have reverted to quasi-pagan ritual practices5.
It seems to me that if you could kill those *&^$ers, YOU WOULD BRING A LOT OF AMMO/ARROWS/WHATEVER to kill them!
This is in the future!
Why do they only have axes and arrows?
This book has no ending.
I will read the Wikipedia entry for the following book/s because I don't think I can bring myself to keep reading.
This book is told from the perspective of Mary, a young woman growing up in a small, isolated village surrounded by a fence that keeps the unrelenting zombies out.
Mary, of course, questions this and is not content with her future as a member of the Sisterhood or married to man she doesn't love.
Nothing good ever happens to Mary and the questions just kept coming with little-to-none answers.
But the gist of it is Mary is in love with Travis.
Cass is in love with Harry, but Harry is engaged to Mary.
Harry likes Mary, but I wouldn't call it love.
One thing I do know: Mary is a fine example of the uber-selfish heroines that are common in YA, particularly paranormal/dystopian fiction.
I'm fine with reading a selfish, unpleasant narrator -- but what I don't like is when selfishness is portrayed as a positive trait.
As I said, I couldn't unravel their devotion.Instead we're subjected Mary's constantly rehashing her love triangle -- and her craving to see the ocean.
The first-person tense added no immediacy to the story.)There were a few things I liked.
I've been reading zombie books with my MacHalo sisters and felt I needed something a little more, so decided to read this one on my own, in-between other reads.It's the end of the world as we know it.
Mary is one young girl who lives in one of these villages, surrounded by a fence the Guardians must patrol and maintain.
Only the boy Mary wants is pledged to someone else.
This is more of a plot driven story than character driven, so the characters weren't fleshed out all that great, but it works for a book like this.
doesn't it?Mary + her ocean dream = her going through a boring journey to see the ocean.I want to introduce to you the most selfish character in the book.Of course it is none other than the main character Mary.Here are some quotes to support my point.
“You can't ever have known love.” I am about to protest when he holds up a hand to stop me and continues, “Because if you had you wouldn't be telling me to kill my wife as if it were an easy choice.” (You just got slammed Mary).
I've read more than a few rants that complain of the writing style (present tense), the love aspect, the originality aspect, and Mary herself, saying she's selfish and unlikeable.
And most of the things that seem to bother people about this book help me to love it.I found Ryan's writing beautifully and painfully evocative, and the present tense lent an immediacy to the narration that really worked.
This bit is a teensy bit spoilery, so if you haven't read it, look away.I know there are people who find the relationship unbelievable, and think that Mary was selfish for a) choosing Travis over Harry for no reason (?
This captures the mood of the book perfectly, because this story isn't about the zombie outbreak; it's about the tiny society that's arisen seven generations after, and the few remnants of the pre-outbreak life they've managed to cobble together into a village.
Instead, the zombies are a constant background detail, a shuffling, shambling mass of unlife beyond the fences that surround the village.Mary is the heart of the story, a young woman who's grown up on her mother's tales of the ocean, which no one in their village has ever seen.
We can't say exactly what factor will keep the scheme from working, but we know from experience dealing with people--ALIVE ONES with functioning brains--that pyramid schemes don't work.So, I have a lot of trouble buying this idea that zombies will become some huge threat if they are (a) only raised after an infected person comes back from the dead; (b) relying on a pyramid scheme to take over the world; and (c) slower, stupider versions of humans.
These zombies--in case you've forgotten--are trying to kill people with their teeth.
