https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13477676-forgive-me-leonard-peacock
Which is an embarrassingly melodramatic statement to make after this book managed to be so dark and sad without feeling forced or manipulative like my words.
He takes center stage and captures your attention for the whole book, dragging you into his life until you find it hard to put down the novel and convince yourself he isn't real.Sorta Like a Rock Star is a darker book than the cover would have you think but it looks a bit like sunshine and rainbows when compared to this.
Read this book if you want to be very emotionally invested in finding out why a high school teacher doesn't roll up his sleeves.And if you want your heart to cry.
He's unlikeable, he's downtrodden at times, but he never felt like a real character, much less someone with whom I could ever feel anything less than apathy and disgust.I'm not sure what this book was trying to accomplish.
To make us understand that this potential shooter is just like any other self-absorbed teenager all around the world---albeit one with an automatic and a mission to kill?This book is honest with its portrayal of the main character.
I sympathize with bullying, I really do, but I think it was brushed over too much in this book to make me feel like it was a major issue that ultimately led to Leonard's decision.
Leonard Peacock wants to die.
Now I don’t want to jinx anything—perhaps I speak too soon, as this is only my second book read by Matthew Quick—but I really do believe that this author is slowly but surely becoming a favourite author of mine.He just KNOWS how to write a novel.
The truth is, Leonard Peacock does not really want to die.
He hopes someone will give him a reason to stay on this earth.
This is not a happy book.
But I think I know how it ends, deep inside my heart, and sometimes—not always—that enough.
When the low, heavy sky weighs like a lid On the groaning spirit, victim of long ennui, And from the all-encircling horizon Spreads over us a day gloomier than the night;When the earth is changed into a humid dungeon, In which Hope like a bat Goes beating the walls with her timid wings And knocking her head against the rotten ceiling; - Charles Baudelaire, Spleen Damn you, Leonard Peacock : you made me remember of who used to be one of my favorite poet when I was a teenager. Ha, Baudelaire with
When the low, heavy sky weighs like a lid On the groaning spirit, victim of long ennui, And from the all-encircling horizon Spreads over us a day gloomier than the night;When the earth is changed into a humid dungeon, In which Hope like a bat Goes beating the walls with her timid wings And knocking her head against the rotten ceiling; - Charles Baudelaire, Spleen
Truth is, being close to Leonard felt like that : all hate and contempt and understanding and despair.
As other reviewers pointed it, Leonard shares a very bad opinion of women in general and doesn't show any respect most of the time.
tw: antisemitism/nazis, suicidal thoughts and actions, depression, rape/sexual assaultIt's strange how this book made me feel simultaneously uncomfortable yet touched.
I adored the side characters in this book, and I loved Leonard's narration itself.
I feel like it needed one more chapter or an epilogue for some finality, or at least an indication of what the characters ended up doing after the climax of the book.
I feel like I still don't quite know if the book ended on a positive or negative note.
I anticipate I'll be thinking about it for some time, wondering what the characters are up to after the ending of the novel.
This book was heartbreaking but ultimately really enjoyable. My only issue was that I felt like the ending didn't give me enough satisfaction for a rounded out story. Video review maybe to come. Not sure yet.
a very good quick read
Though I appreciated many things within this book and even found myself emotionally attached to the main character, there were also quite a few elements that really bothered and hindered me at truly loving this story.The story centres around Leonard Peacock who has decided that he is going to kill himself on his eighteenth birthday.
Now I don’t know about you, but if a teacher would have asked my old high school class this question, I can guarantee that all of us would have answered the way Leonard did.
They should be explorations of controversial ideas and of the horrible things that people can do.
Here's the thing: this book doesn't excuse any of it.
Despite several things I'd usually DNF for— the misogyny and homophobia of the protagonist, namely— this convinced me.
And none of this is to diss the idea that this book goes to far, or doesn't explore Leonard's issues enough.
If a stronger character had been given to her, the scenes in which Leonard ignored consent in his interactions with her would've felt like far more of a purposeful decision.
Until I’ve read the very first page of the book, I honestly thought Forgive Me, Leonard Peacock is mainly a humorous contemporary fiction and I picked it up because I was looking forward to reading something light and funny.
It was funny but I was in a complete surprise to find out that it’s a book mainly about depression and suicide and yet one that I would recommend over other books that also talk of the same subject matters.
It was kind of eerie because we do share a lot of similar thoughts especially dark, twisted ones.
So on his 18th birthday he takes his grandfather's war gun trophy and sets out to kill his former best friend and himself.When we are introduced to Leonard, he immediately fills the reader in on his plans, though the ultimate reason why is revealed along the course of his day as he gives away personal items or gifts to four people he regularly interacts with.
It's a very different story, the kind I'm not used to reading.
But just like Thirteen Reasons Why and Charm and Strange, it's one I'll probably be thinking about for a while.
Forgive me Mathew Quick, because I didn't find your story compelling for most of the part. Synopsis? Leonard Peacock has a shitty life. He is a fictional embodiment of all things that could go wrong with an average 21st-century teenager, bar the drugs. Leonard has no father, no friends of his age, and no girlfriend. What he does have is money, a Mother who doesn't care about him, a Holden Caulfield attitude and a P 38 gun.And today is his birthday. And the plan?  He is going to kill his ex-best
The book is written like The Catcher in the Rye, where the main character talks about his feelings, paints his opinions and narrate his actions until the end of the book.
The only way you could probably like the book is if you connect with the character or feel empathy towards him.
But the character who actually matters is Leonard Peacock as we will be spending entire book inside his head, and unfortunately, he is not very compelling.
His monologues are repetitive, his opinions lack originality and it all feels like been there, done that.
Whatever the case, Forgive Me, Leonard Peacock did not have any appreciable impact on me.You see, I read this book hoping to gain some insight into the mind of a school shooter.
Maybe Leonard was never the "shooter" but just another depressed teenager who, tired of fighting the world, had come dangerously close to giving up altogether.I don't know if I would recommend this book.
I had this idea that I would love this book a lot, but I just didn't.
I love these kinds of books because they touch on real things in life, sad things.
Leonard is going to kill his ex-best friend and himself.
Leonard goes throughout the day giving gifts to his friends and teacher.
I liked Leonard's teacher Herr Silverman.
He was a kind teacher and he understood a lot more than people would think.
Leonard has so many things going on in his head.
Overall I liked the idea of the book and the character of the teacher.
It's not hard to see why he doesn't blend in - It's not as if he wants to, either.Throughout this story we get to understand how Leonard came to feel the way he does.
Maybe it's because it remains one of the few books on suicide that I've read - and that one touched me in a way like no other - but I'm certain those who enjoyed one will also love the other.
Unlike Thirteen Reasons Why, though, you're not aware of how Leonard's story ends.
I find this a very difficult book to review because on one hand, it's subject matter is very important, on the other, I really didn't enjoy it very much.There were times when I sympathized with the main character, Leonard Peacock.
They would've fit fine into the paragraph as an extra sentence because it was a stream-of-consciousness writing style anyway?Then almost 3/4 of the way into the book we start seeing experimentation with words being scattered all over the page for dramatic effect, but there was no consistency & it came off sort of forced.To top it all off, there are a couple letters written from the future to the main character placed between the chapters of the present storyline, and until the very end it's just hella confusing.
Rather, it was all just a cheap after school special; I never felt Quick rises above trying to score points by feeding his readers the alienated lone gunman cliches we've come to associate with guys like Leonard to do an actual exploration of the character.I wanted to be impressed by Matthew Quick's hard-hitting, dark, and gritty storytelling, but Forgive Me, Leonard Peacock is none of these things.
Suffice to say that this novel is brilliant, beautiful, and heart-breaking.
It follows a teenage boy - Leonard Peacock - on his birthday as he chooses to kill another boy in his school and then commit suicide himself, all after giving the few special people in his life gifts to remember him by.
Moreover, the cast of secondary characters in this novel is stunning in their gray matter and unexpected depth.
Leonard, especially, is a character our hearts go out to at once and I loved nothing more than his growth and the realistic, but hopeful, ending of this story.
2.5. Review to come Read this review and others over on my blogBetween the sheets & covers blog Between the sheets & covers blog Between the sheets & covers blog
The poor guy is so misunderstood, and his mother is horrible... And just....Why am I crying?The footnotes are everything.Also the letters from the future.
Whatever this book was trying to accomplish, it couldn't.
I thought at first it was going to be an easy read.Before I got the book, I checked the synopsis here at Goodreads first.It sounded serious but still, I wasn't expecting the contents to be what it was.MEET THE CHARACTERSLeonardI feel for Leonard.
Although this book reminded me of Perks of Being a Wallflower, Leonard was in no way like Charlie.
If she wasn't so conveniently inattentive I don't think Leonard would be in the situation that he was then.
This book kind of bopped me on the head and left my brain for dead.
I don't want to give spoilers, but to put it bluntly: Leonard is considered "strange".
What I loved about Leonard is I really felt like I was in his head during the book.
(We know this from the blurb, too.) The book takes place over ONE DAY.
Leonard gives 4 presents to people he wants to thank...which is a sign of suicide, too, by the way (I know how to use google, too).
(view spoiler)[ I'm really rather appalled at how the Iran friend treated Leonard.
Esse livro me surpreendeu de uma maneira muito positiva!A escrita do Matthew Quick (que eu não tinha gostado muito em O Lado Bom da Vida) está incrível em Leonard Peacock.
O livro se passa ao longo de um dia inteiro e, na minha opinião, o ponto forte dessa história foram os personagens que Leonard encontra nesse dia.
Suas relações são muito bem construídas e a mesmo conhecendo pouco os personagens secundários, a gente sente que conhece muito.
Assim como Fale!, esse é um livro YA que trata o tema abuso com muito respeito e de maneira leve sem ser superficial.
Pacing of the book was truly incredible, I love how the author add a bit of humor to this novel when in fact, the issue this book tackled was really serious.
3.) Characters - Leonard - first of all, the fact that he was a fan of literature and old movies were enough to love him.
That, perhaps he too, had also fooled Asher that they're going to "have some fun and feel good" I feel so fucked-up about that one, you know considering that when Leonard first caught a glimpse of this certain uncle, he thought he was cool and kind!
Leonard is suffering with trauma and depression, his past is full of neglect and abuse, so one day he decides he wants to end it all as well as take his revenge.The book follows him as he plans to kill his former best friend, and as he says goodbye to the three only people he ever cared about.
7)This book starts off with no hope and ends with so much hope, it's so amazing and beautiful, and every teenager suffering with thoughts like this needs to read this book.Forgive Me, Leonard Peacock brings something back to the young adult world that has been missing: empathy, understanding, and hope.
This is the story of one day in Leonard Peacock’s life.
Follow Leonard through this most remarkable day as he says his farewells to the four most important people in his life – on the last day of his own.Characters like Leonard Peacock (i.e., Holden Caulfield, Gene from A Separate Peace, Charlie from The Perks of Being a Wallflower, Lucky Linderman from Everybody Sees the Ants, etc., etc.) can sometimes seem to be a dime a dozen.
Although there were similarities, Matthew Quick’s writing set Leonard apart from some of the others.
Quick really GETS how to write a character dealing with mental illness (Pat in The Silver Linings Playbook – I mean GENIUS!).
Leonard’s pain comes through every page once he REALLY starts letting you in to his life.
"Why am I so emotchunal?" -Miranda SingsBut really, a heartbreaking and emotional book that I feel is really important for a lot of reasons. Hard to get through, but really important.Every life matters and things do get better.
I feel like I’ve been reading a lot of books recently that contain characters who are dealing with certain social or mental issues.
I know that saying I enjoyed reading about these things might not be the best way to describe it, but it really added depth to his character.
I didn’t really know what to expect going into it and it ended up surprising me in the best way possible.
Not that their motives justify their actions in any way, don't get me wrong, but I do like the idea of knowing why they're doing what they're doing.
