https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/617085.The_Han_Solo_Adventures
The field permitted the management to alter gravity anywhere on the premises, and so the dance floor and the dome over it had become a low-gee acrobatic playground in which singles, couples, and groups looped, floated, and spun with effortless grace.
It's not you, book, it's me.This promised fun but instead the story got lost on me.
I just could not get interested in it.It was all: gun smuggling, blah, blah, battle scene, blah, blah, quipping with female, blah, blah, getting attached to droid, blah blah...I have no idea what I read.
Not interested.This edition contains three stories / books, but I only read At Stars' End, as part of a bingo challenge.
Always a beautiful compatriot in the mix and crazy hair raising stunts born out of deaparation that only comes with a band of heroes up against an overwhelming force that's blessed with a little luck.The first book introduces some characters from the Clone Wars animated series, though, they existed here first, and gives us some idea of what Han was like before he met Laya and Luke and became emeshed in the revolution against the Empire.
These stories are fun, completely in the spirit of the first three movies and do a wonderful job of adventuring with Han Solo.
It’s just that your books are up against some real classics like Jane Eyre and A Tale of Two Cities and Hamlet… (What’s that?
Well, they were written a long, long time ago, in a galaxy far, far away.)These books are just what I’d expect from you, Han Solo: rollicking adventures stories about a guy just trying to make a (dis)honest living.
It’s everything we’ve come to expect from you, Han, and that’s just the way we like it.
Quite frankly, I think Jude, the Obscure is a five-star classic, but I doubt I’ll ever read it again.
These books about you, Han?
I feel like I'm one of the few that actually enjoyed this book quite a bit.
You don't read too much about the characters and species mention here in other books, but there are a lot of little things that continue to be used in the SWU.
This book is three short novels of Han and Chewy's exploits before they became involved with the rebellion.
They spend most of their time in the Corporate sector and there isn't much mention of the empire and whatnot.
The stories are entertaining and I like reading about Han and Chewy, so it made for a good read.
Not good, but not bad.Writing early fan fiction, just after the debut of what we now call Episode Four, Brian Daley wrote decent, if uninspired space opera using the bare bones of Han Solo and Chewbacca's persona from the first Star Wars movie.
And no other SW character than Han and Chewy appear, other than a single closing reference to Jabba the Hutt.It isn't even very good science fiction: repeatedly Daley falls back on the old saw of having his futuristic heroes stumble into "ancient" and "antique" technologies strongly reminiscent of the late Twentieth Century.Three stories for the price of one is about right for this book.
I don't know how Brian Daly got involved in writing a series of prequel books featuring the adventures of Han Solo and his wookie partner but he was the perfect man for the job.
Each of these books is distinguished by fast paced action, snappy dialog and old fashioned cliffhanger plotting to keep the reader interested.
With spin-off books like this the quality really depends on the talent of the author who gets the gig and Brian Daly did a fantastic job.
I recently bought this omnibus edition for my kindle as my original paperbacks from way back when are hiding in a box somewhere.
While re-reading the books brought back the same enjoyment that I remember from when I first read them back in the 1980's, a couple of annoying and possibly even deliberate spelling mistakes in the kindle edition did detract from my enjoyment.
So, if anyone is thinking about buying the kindle version then I'd suggest thinking twice and perhaps picking up the paperback instead.
Other than that I think Brian Daley did a great job with these adventures in the Star Wars universe and would have liked to see more.
Almost no connection to the movies, besides Han and Chewbacca are the heroes, but all three books are great bits of space opera. Lots of fun and adventure.I think 'At Stars End' is the best of the three.
Witty, entertaining and action-packed! This book is like having Han Solo tell you his story as it happens. This one's hard to let go!
A great novel that fills in the gaps about Han Solo's origins.
Read early in my exposure to the Extended Universe. At the time I had a job that often left me as the sole occupant of the office without a lot to do but wait for the phone to ring or someone to drop by, so I brought this book to keep me company. I don't remember many specific details, but I enjoyed the adventures and thought the stories filled in some of Han and Chewie's earlier timeline well.
Wile it doesn't bear much resemblance to later Star Wars expanded universe novels, the Han Solo Adventures are still fun sci-fi adventure novels. They play out more like old adventure serials than contemporary Star Wars novels, but that sort of fits the milieu of the original film. So, while they don't quite work as Star Wars novels, they're still a heckuva lot of fun!
Brian Daley wrote a novel about Han Solo's adventures before he meet Luke, Obi-Wan and Leia and joined the Rebellion. Stories about a man og extreme luckiness.
A fun read with lots of action; this action is described in such detail that it's as if the book is trying to make you literally see it like a movie.
Why Disney decided to start over from scratch instead of licensing some of these old novels is completely beyond me.HAN SOLO'S REVENGE is almost good as Book #1 of the trilogy, except for the fact that the story threads don't tie together very well at the end.
This book is everything that a Han Solo standalone adventure should be, not to mention a great way to further build upon the events of HAN SOLO AT STAR'S END.HAN SOLO AND THE LOST LEGACYThough somewhat goofier and less impressive than the previous installments, HAN SOLO AND THE LOST LEGACY is nonetheless a solid STAR WARS novel that brings Brian Daley's trilogy to a satisfying close.
And they are deserving of reading decades later because they are really fun, self-contained action-adventures.Han Solo has always been one of my favorite Star Wars characters, the iconic scoundrel with the heart of gold.
Chewbacca proved to be as fun to read about as Han, improving my opinion of him (not to say that I disliked Chewbacca before).The characters of Bollux and Blue Max, two droids who become crew mates for the course of the novels, are quite enjoyable, too.
The first and last stories weren’t very good. The second story is a solid four stars and I liked it a lot. But I don’t really want yo read this again, which is sad, because Han Solo is my favorite character in Star Wars. The Han Solo trilogy by A C Crispin is way better than this. I would rather recommend that to people. This just wasn’t for me, and it’s frustrating that I can’t figure out why.
What I would describe most about the book is how Han Solo attempts to solve his problems in the most spectacular way, he is the kind of man that would make a mountain out of a molehill and not get the reason why.
Han Solo's Revenge (Star Wars: The Han Solo Adventures, #2) by Brian Daley How Han Solo seeked to change events in his world, but found so many things in his way.
With thrilling escapes and turns of fate Brian Daley, shows the diverse nature of Star Wars with the underlying ideology that value is in the person, wither alien or human.
It seems that the books written back then, that were written for fans, but targeted to kids, were kept at a strict "under 200 pages" limit.
Nowadays, thanks to authors like JK Rowling, a book can be 2000 pages and not seem excessive, even if it's written for children.
Re-reading these after all these years, and having been spoiled by the "skies the limit" page count in modern books, I started to wonder if the editors were following the newspaper style of editing from the end of the book.

I liked these stories well enough. I don't have much experience reading the Star Wars EU books, so I can't judge these stories as compared to the rest. I felt these were solid, yet run of the mill adventure stories. The biggest (and some may say only) thing they have going for them is Han Solo. He is pretty close to how I think he should be portrayed in the book, with no major out of character moments that I can recall. I'll give it 3 stars because it wasn't anything special but I still enjoyed reading them.
Not as good as A.C. Crispin's excellent origin trilogy, these three tales are still fun, solid adventures that precede the events of the original films. Crispin's trilogy begins with a teenage Han that spans several years leading to the original cantina scene in the first film, whereas this book consists of three standalone tales that fit somewhere between those years. They are fun and work well as a weekend read, but don't live up to the dynamic plot and characterization of the other trilogy.
One of the earliest written Star Wars novels, this book is actually a reprint of a trilogy. Han is the typical scoundrel who supposedly cares for no one but Chewbacca and only wants to make profit, but his selfish facade masks a heart of gold.The series is well written, but doesn't stand out. Still if you like Han Solo and Chewie, you'll like this series just fine.
Badass book. Who doesn't like Han Solo running rough shod over the galaxy taking no prisoners? If you expect this to be Dante, War and Peace, or something of that sort, well you're obviously going to be disappointed. Enjoy it for what it is; even Colt 45 has it's 5 Star Moments.
woah. outdated.
Generic space adventures.
Brian Daley's stories of Han Solo are collected here, with two of the three stories contained in this collection being very good, while one was simply a chore.
The stories, though, seem like they don't exactly fit in the grander Star Wars universe.
It's almost like they simply took some cool characters (Han, Chewie) and borrowed them for use as characters in a generic sci-fi tale.Of the three, "Han Solo's Revenge," the second story, felt the strongest, followed closely behind my "Han Solo At Star's End." Both were well-constructed, quick paced stories.
"Han Solo and the Lost Legacy," though, was an absolute chore to get through.
Great to revisit this old "Expanded Universe" (now rechristened "Legends") Star Wars novel.
Written after A New Hope came out in theaters, it's remarkable how thoroughly writer Brian Daley captured the template of Solo's character, with only the material from the one Star Wars movie to go on.
This version collects the three breezy "The Han Solo Adventures" novels: Han Solo at Star's End, Han Solo's Revenge and Han Solo & the Lost Legacy.
Yes, Chewbacca is here, but otherwise there are all new characters and worlds, all described in a comfortable, "lived-in" manner, reminiscent of the best Star Wars films and stories.If you like Solo, you'll like these stories.
Han isn't given any recognizable traits, and nothing happens that raises the stakes or changes *anything* in his outlook or actions.
The lack of setting and flow means it's hard to follow what the hell is even happening.
Given that's really the only core the books have going for them, means it left little for me to latch onto.
Han Solo's Revenge, the second of the two gets at least a third star for being somewhat more coherent than the others.
But Star's End just feels ineffectual and vacant, and Lost Legacy tries far too much and gets weird and confused.
When I first read these as a kid, I was enthralled.
Reading them again as an adult, and I was excited all over again.
Not only does Daley touch the heart of the Star Wars universe with his writing, he imbues with with an innate understanding of adventure.All three interconnecting stories are family-friendly fare that can make reading nights with the kids enjoyable for all, or just provide some awesome thrills for those in love with SW.
Thrills, battles, bad guys, lost armies of robots, and thugs abound, what's not to love about the roguish Han Solo and his faithful companion Chewbacca?Clean transition from paper to digital copy.
