https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24655.D_Aulaires_Book_of_Norse_Myths
It was cool that Odin put it with Balder in his funeral pyre.E -- Embla: Embla is one of the first humans created by the Gods.
Thor challenges every Jotun he sees, and kills it and stuff, declares war on it, I'd say.K -- Kvasir: Wasn't that the drink that made people smart?
They were pretty cool, and some of them joined the Aesir.W -- War: The Norse Gods fought too much, definitely.
Well-loved books from my pastRating: 4* of fiveIngri and Edgar Parin d'Aulaire were a married couple of Euro-origin, he Swiss and she Norwegian, who came to the US in the 1920s to pursue fame and fortune.
Edgar was an illustrator for books, magazines, and the like, while Ingri painted rich guys' portraits.
Came the Depression, oh dearie me...everything got harder...so the two collaborated on writing and illustrating kids' books together.
Dad read the book to me, even though by 1967 I was reading on my own, and we both loved the experience.
মিথের বই এবং সেই সাথে ঝকঝকে রঙিন ছবি, এই বই ভালো না লেগে পারে?গলপের বরণনা বেশি ভাললাগছে, আর ছবিগুলো বেশি কিউট। কিছু ছবি এটাচ করে দিলাম। Height, Width এর সমসযার কারণে খুব ভালোলাগার কিছু ছবি দিতে পারলাম না :(যুদধরত Odin, দেবতাদের দেবতা। ঘোড়ার পা কয়টা খেয়াল করেছ?Freya, ভালোবাসার দেবী, কোলে তার মেয়ে Noss.পৃথিবীর পরথম মানব Ask, মানবী Embla.দেবী Gefjon ও তার চার ছেলে, তৈরী করছে Sjaelland দবীপ।Skade, the Ski-goddess.দেবী Idunn, যৌবন রকষাকারী আপেলের পাহারাদাতা। হারপ হাতে রয়েছে তার সবামী Bragi, কবিদের দে
মিথের বই এবং সেই সাথে ঝকঝকে রঙিন ছবি, এই বই ভালো না লেগে পারে?গল্পের বর্ণনা বেশি ভাল্লাগছে, আর ছবিগুলো বেশি কিউট। কিছু ছবি এটাচ করে দিলাম। Height, Width এর সমস্যার কারণে খুব ভালোলাগার কিছু ছবি দিতে পারলাম না :(যুদ্ধরত Odin, দেবতাদের দেবতা। ঘোড়ার পা কয়টা খেয়াল করেছ?Freya, ভালোবাসার দেবী, কোলে তার মেয়ে Noss.পৃথিবীর প্রথম মানব Ask, মানবী Embla.দেবী Gefjon ও তার চার ছেলে, তৈরী করছে Sjaelland দ্বীপ।Skade, the Ski-goddess.দেবী Idunn, যৌবন রক্ষাকারী আপেলের পাহারাদাতা। হার্প হাতে রয়েছে তার স্বামী Bragi, কবিদের দেবতা।
(UPDATE: I'm pretty sure I wrote this review around the time the awesome Loki movies started being released.
Way too much focus on his boring blond brother in those, am I right?)It took me a long time to come around to the idea that the Norse myths could be compelling.
They just seemed so solemn and manly, especially compared to the Greek gods.
I could imagine falling into their world.
I especially appreciate the poignancy of gods who know their days are numbered.
Oh, and the world tree with a dragon gnawing at its roots.
Turns out those Norse myths are pretty cool.
ছোট বেলার পরবণতা এখনও সতেজ। ছবি ওয়ালা বই ভাল লাগে। মিথ-রূপকথা এসব ভাল লাগে। আর এই বইয়ের বযাপারে যেটা অভিনব সেটা হলও নরস গডদের নিজেদের রকষা করার জনয যুদধ করতে হয়, একসময় তাদেরও গডগিরির সময় শেষ হয়ে আসে। নাইস। আর টরিকসটার গড লোকি তো আছেই। বইটির শেষে ডিকশনারির মত করে গুরুতবপূরণ চরিতর এবং জিনিসগুলোর ইনডেকসিং করা আছে, সেটা খুবই হেলপফুল ছিল। কারণ অনেকদিন লাগিয়ে বইটা পড়লাম। একটা একটা করে গলপ। ভুলে যাওয়া চরিতর বা এলিমেনটকে খোঁজার জনয আগের গলপগুলোর শরণাপনন না হয়ে ইনডেকসের শরণাপনন হয়েই সমুথলি কাজ চলে যাচছিল

Enjoyable, but a bit dry. Lovely illustrations.However, I probably would have enjoyed it a bit more if I hadn't read it right after reading Gaiman's Norse Mythology since it more or less retells the same tales.
And they know it, too, which makes them and their stories just a little more poignant for the reader, both for Michael Chabon and for me as a child, back in the '60s and again today forty-some years later.Here's my review of Neil Gaiman's recent take on these same myths:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Years ago, I got a copy of D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths from a library sale.
That's where my love of mythology, and probably all folklore, started, with that one 50 cent book from a library sale.
But this isn't about the Greek myths, it's about the Norse myths.I'm ashamed that it took me so long to get around to reading the d'Aulaire's treatment of Norse myths.
After all, I loved their version of the Greek myths so much.
After reading this book, I know that the nine steps were deliberately borrowed from the myths.
Pretty cool.This would be a great starting point for anyone who wants a little mythological background before hitting Marvel's version.
Bel libro che sintetizza in modo gradevole e ordinato alcuni dei più importati miti legati alla tradizione norrena.Colpisce sempre la differenza tra la spensieratezza della mitologia greco-romana e la cupezza di quella nordica che prevede anche per gli dei la possibilità di morire.Adatto anche ai bambini.
First off this is a physically beautiful book. Both the illustrations and the actual paper that the book is printed on. This is a children's book and as such is a wonderful quick introduction to Norse Myths without too much violence. One I will be saving to read to children. And for me a great introduction to get me interested in learning more of these myths.
d'Aulaires' Book of Norse Myths has the distinction of being the first book I ever bought with the next generation specifically in mind.
(I suppose that's because I think little boys will find strange adventure whether you hand it to them in a book or not.)And of course, among books of Norse Myth, d'Aulaire's comes highly recommended, having been a favorite for generations.
:Dd'Aulaires' Book of Norse Myths lives up to its reputation as perhaps the best introduction a child can have to the myths of Asgard and the other worlds of Nordic myths.
the Greek mythology was far more interesting but this book was an ok book for school
The book ends with a new world, a rebirth, and a pair of humans who believe not in the Aesir gods but rather in the god of everything and it reminded me of what is happening now, how we are perhaps worshipping the wrong gods, how we might need to pull back and get another perspective.
The Ragnarokk description is eerily like the past few weeks or months--the gods selfish and fighting and boastful and vengeful like Trump and other world "leaders" who think they're gods but who in fact are destroying the world and humanity...
I love mythology and Norse mythology especially. But, I never really knew the backgrounds and had the familiarity with the norse myths like I do greek and egyptian mythology. I wanted something that simply told the stories of Norse mythology without being technical. I wanted the "fairy-tale-esque" type of story and that's exactly what I got with this book. Great for introducing children to the myths too!
Homeschool book. A delight.
I still think the original edition, published in 1967, had sturdier paper and that the colors were more vibrant, but the New York Review of Books deserves respect for preserving this treasure -- Fred Wemyss, January 30th, 2008.] Here is the review I posted on January 29th: I was given this when I was eight or nine.
But there's a reason THE OTHER HOUSE has had to be re-discovered: It needs to be re-buried.So: About NORSE GODS AND GIANTS, or, as it is now being called, D'AULAIRES' BOOK OF NORSE MYTHS -- I still love the drawings and still can't read the text.
Because the boys were a lot less familiar with these myths, and because they seemed to be written a bit more densely the text itself was quite a bit less successful for them than the Greek one was, bringing the book down to two stars. Then again, the art is so much better than the Greek one, that we come back up to four stars based on that. And then the authors had to go and staple an explicitly Christian epilogue after Ragnarok which pulled us back down to three stars again.
A wonderful book from my childhood with spirited storytelling and beautiful illustrations. Enjoyable for adults as well as children, and not at all dated. Five stars overall.For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Book_D...
I finished this a while ago.Recommended for mythology fans of any age. It has charming illustrations and brisk prose. A good book for a coffee table and/or bed time.
Using this book in our homeschooling to learn more about Norse Myths. Great book with lots of information.
He has smiths make golden hair for one of the Aesir wives to attach to her own shorn hair, a spear that always hits its mark, and a boat that sails on the sea and flies over land and is big enough to carry all of the Aesir but is able to be folded up and slipped into a pocket.Another smith bets that he can do better, and he makes a golden bracelet that can produce more golden bracelets just like it, a hammer that smashes whatever it hits and always returns to the owner, and a shiny golden boar that one person can ride.The latter smith wins the contest.Um.
There is so much I did not know about Norse mythology.
And I'm sort of ashamed to admit that any familiarity I have with these things *probably* comes from "Erik the Viking." That seems simply scandalous.I liked this as an introduction and I think that it probably covers the basics very well as a series of linked stories about creation and the gods and how their world ended, but I also felt like there were more stories to be told which were just the very barest of bones - a couple sentences where I thought, "Oh!
I discovered it in my school library during my second grade year, and fell in love with it.
The library was organized by grade level, and we primary kids weren't allowed to check things out from the higher level sections.
Eventually my mother had to meet with the librarian, and after that I was the ONLY KID IN THE SCHOOL who was allowed to check out any book I wanted.
I became a fourth grade Greek mythology expert.I believe that this book by the D'Aulaires, with its gorgeous colored-pencil illustrations, started me on a path that eventually led to my interest in language, historical linguistics, medieval history and literature.
I loved the D’Aulaires’ Book of Greek Myths when I was a little girl; I read it over and over and dressed up as Athena one year for Halloween.
The D’Aulaires give the northern myths the same treatment, telling the tales simply and elegantly, with beautiful illustrations.
I think I will always prefer the Greek stories—whether because they were the tales of my youth, or simply because they are less dark (and the women get rather more to do)—but this is likewise a wonderful collection, and I’m really glad I finally got to read it.
Again, I'm not even going to pretend to be objective.
When I was tiny & wee, I checked this (and their D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths) out from the public library about a million times, and never failed to be mesmerised by their clear prose and their lovely illustrations.(Although when I was reading it, it was called Norse Gods and Giants and I think it had a different cover.)Yes, this is written for children, so there's probably a lot of ...
How curious that despite the many great kings, wars, and achievements of a bygone civilization, its lowly bards and priests have ensured its immortality through stories and myths.
I read Norse Gods and Giants after I had been introduced to Judeo–Christian mythology by my parents (and the Monticello, AR public school system) and Greek mythology by my father and some excellent children's books, the names of which now escape me.
This book is probably just as good as D'Aulaires' Book of Greek Myths, which I've bestowed five stars to.
But the Greek myths are just inherently more cool than the Norse ones.
Well, yes, Loki is pretty hardcore...and so is Thor...Okay, I'll admit it, I'm just totally biased.
In about 150 gorgeously illustrated pages, the D'Aulaires cover a huge number of the more important myths of Norse mythology.
And what is so amazing is how concisely, yet comprehensively, they cover the most important elements of the myths.
When I read their book on Greek myths in second grade, it started an obsession that lasted years.
I read this quickly and not carefully.
I just wanted quick answers about who Riordan is talking about in his new book The Sword of Summer.
The stories in there are pretty good but feel rather repetitive (wars and lies.
Of course, you can argue the same for Greek mythology.
There it is love and lies).
While I haven't gotten my hands yet on two books I just ordered recently on Norse mythology, the D'Aulaire book still does a fundamental job on the subject.
I certainly wouldn't recommend someone discard this title!It is dated in some ways, it still does the job.
The illustrations and text were fascinating to me, and I found a more recent copy from Scholastic for my children.
I credit the early exposure to Norse Mythology with my comprehension of Grendel in High School, and other, similar texts throughout my college coursework.
It was fascinating to me, to compare the darker mythology of the Norse Gods to what I perceived to be the lighter mythology of the Greeks and Romans.
I am glad to see that Scholastic has picked it up and it is available again for future generations!
With the popularity of the "Percy Jackson" series featuring both Greek and Roman mythology, I wanted to give this book a try. I did hear that Rick Riordan was going to be writing a book about Norse mythology and I wanted to read up on some of the stories of the Nordic mythological realm. Some of the stories were interesting: Odin, Thor & Loki and others did not capture my imagination. When making new discoveries in mythology it is, interesting to learn about tales from other countries. Interesting read.
