https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1188126.Mendelssohn_is_on_the_Roof
When Reinhard Heydrich attends a concert in Prague he is incensed when he sees a statue of the Jewish composer Mendelssohn on the roof and orders it be destroyed.
Thus the novel begins and will enter the minds and lives of the various people who are directly and indirectly involved in the saga of the statue.
Initially no one can work out which of the many statues is Mendelssohn.
The novel has no central character.
It's written as if everything that happens is normal - there's none of the hyperbole language of many modern holocaust novels.
Binet, in a novel kind of history (or history novel), seemed always to find the right anecdote.My favorite story was about Reinhard Heydrich (Acting Reich Protector of Bohemia and Moravia, trustee of The Final Solution, Nazi to the core, and music lover) leaving the Prague Opera House after a performance of Don Giovanni.
He espies a statue of Felix Mendelssohn above the concert hall and goes apoplectic: Mendelssohn is on the roof!The 'story' comes from this book, cited by Binet in his work.
Thinking quickly, and remembering his courses in racial science, officer Schlesinger tells his men to tumble the statue of the composer with the biggest nose.
While Primo Levi, Ann Frank, and Eli Weizel are well known contributors to Holocaust literature, Jiri Weil is not.
It is a shame that Weil is not better known because his work is just as powerful.
This novel, set in German occupied Prague, "The Protectorate" as it is known, faithfully and horrifically describes life outside of the concentration camp.
Life was equally bleak outside the extermination camps.
The novel views the world through the eyes of various characters, some Jews but others Nazis or Czech workers.
This truly is a brilliant novel and classic literature at its best.

De una anécdota parte la visión de una tragediaFantásticohttp://entremontonesdelibros.blogspot...
Comenzó muy cómicamente trágico, después fue siendo más bien trágico. Cargado de ironía, en momentos aburrido.
It starts out as quite a funny and light book, as a satire of the nazi's occupying Prague.
Now, I didnt give it five stars, because I was really enjoying the mocking of nazis, when suddenly the stories started to become grimmer and grimmer and the dark humour that characterized the first stories started to disappear.
This worked out perfectly for me, because although the tone became darker as the story progressed, I really needed to know how the stories of the individual characters were going to end.Also the book includes some of the most awesome paragraphs ever written (well, thats, like your opinion man) on life in a city, living cities and the way cities should be.
In 1942, he was summoned for transport to a concentration camp, along with the rest of Prague’s Jews, but he feigned suicide and managed to hide out for the rest of the war.
In Prague, an ambitious SS officer is told to remove from the roof of Prague’s concert hall the statue of the Jew Mendelssohn – but the statues are not labeled and he doesn’t know which one is Mendelssohn.
What they send is a Talmudic scholar.
As the story progresses, you realize that the novel is about the plight of the Jews in Prague as they become entangled in Hitler’s “final solution.” Cruelty and sadism on the part of the Nazis becomes more and more intense.
I think this book gets a great feel for the atmosphere of chaos, uncertainty and fear in the Holocaust, and you see the lives of the characters (there are a lot of them, many of them not connected to each other) spin around each other and occasionally intersect, and you hold your breath as each person's story comes to its inevitable ending.
In this way the book reminded me a lot of the wonderful Every Man Dies Alone.The only fault I find is that I had a hard time keeping track of all those many characters, and sometimes when their stories would be dropped for awhile and then picked up again, I would have forgotten what was going on before.
It is as much a collection of related short stories as a novel, as each person's narrative could be seen a a story in itself.
Some of the stories are grim, it becomes harder to make fun of the occupiers as their repression continues, but there are a few uplifting moments too.
It becomes a testament of life under a brutal regime, tying the stories of typical, but representative, ordinary citizens into factual events.I was undecided between giving this book four or five stars, until the final story.
The subtle nuances of each individual struggling to survive in Nazi-occupied Prague bring striking humanity to the most inhuman times; Weil manages to portray each individual character as complex, driven by myriad desires and emotions.
'Mendelssohn is on the Roof' becomes frustrating because clearly Weil has an excellent story idea.
The Nazi occupation of Prague is not nearly as frequently discussed or explored through literature and history as many other aspects of World War II, so Weil successfully avoids cliche and triteness; he is able to bring a fresh outlook to a subject that has been, to some extent, overplayed and wrought with rigid intellectual and emotional behavior.
I'm tired of World War II stories, because their popularity in our culture seems saccharine, nationalistic, almost fetishistic—an excuse to pat ourselves on the back and fawn over the "glory days" of the "Greatest Generation"—while generally managing to sideline the sickeningly-relevant lessons we should be learning from it.
This book was grandfathered in, having been on my list since the day I first joined Goodreads in 2010, and it more than justifies its survival of my many to-read-shelf purges.
But it is not for the faint-hearted (as no honest World War II story should be).
This is a dark, dark book.
It's almost more a collection of loosely connected short stories than a novel.From the back cover: "Julius Schlesinger, aspiring SS officer, has received his new orders to remove from the roof of Prague's concert hall the statue of the Jewish composer Felix Mendelssohn.
But which of the figures adorning the roof is the Jew?
Only as the statue they have carefully chosen begins to topple does he recognize that it is not Mendelssohn; it is Richard Wagner."I picked this up in a bookstore in Prague last summer.
Initially the novel lulls you into a false sense of comfort that it will be one of these tongue-in-cheek ironic Czech comedies of error, but it quickly turns to a painfully honest account of the things people (are forced to) do when faced with horrific non-choices and the small moments in which they find hope even if there is no redemption to be found.
Beautifully translated, gorgeously and clearly written, this is a masterpiece I can't believe I'd never heard of until beginning research on my third novel, also set in Prague with a Holocaust-related backstory.
Everyone, please, read this book.
When I first read this, about ten years ago, I thought it was quite good, a moving portrayal of Bohemia under German occupation. I still think so, but this time the experience of reading it was very different due to my having lived in Prague and read (or at least skimmed) scads of interwar Czech magazine and newspaper articles, including some by Weil. This time I knew more of the locations personally, recognized many more of the historical references and people mentioned, etc. This naturally made the experience much richer and more vivid.
What a sad story about life (and death) under the German occupation of Prague! The beginning is a bit lighter, even funny, with the story of the Mendelssohn statue that has to be torn down as he had Jewish origins. However as there are several statues nobody knows which one is Mendelssohn's! Afterwards the story (or better stories as each chapter seems to be a story of its own) gradually gets a lot more serious describing the desperate struggle of various individuals to survive.
Nejdřív se to zdálo jako zábavná knížka z protektorátu, což je samo o sobě odvážný počin, který mě bavil. Pak se nějak humor vytratil, ale až ke konci mi došlo, že to je klasická protektorátní depka. Nejen konec, skoro celá knížka. Ale dařilo se to celkem dlouho tajit. Je to dost podivnuhodný útvar, který určitě stojí za přečtení, ale když už se do toho zamotala ta závažnost (ono těžko se jí vyhnout), tak bych ty příběhy uvítala mnohem propracovanější.
Very good book about people living under Nazi occupation outside Prague. Similar to Irene Nemirovsky's Suite Francais, but with more irony.
I read this quite a few months ago and I thought I'd written a review on it, but I see it's not here. It's too long ago for me to remember the specifics but I know I thought it was amazing.
Dark and foreboding
Crea un retrato fehaciente de lo que significó vivir bajo el yugo nazi durante protectorado de Boheima desde la piel de estas victimas.La manera que desenlaza la historia de los personajes es la única posible en mi opinión y muestra la gran maestría del autor.
Es una muestra de respeto para la dignidad de las victimas.El único "pero" que le pongo al libro es la manera casi propagandística de la que habla del ejercito rojo.
Mendelssohn is on the Roof opens with the story of a group of men trying to obey Heydrich's command to remove the statue of Jewish composer Mendelssohn from the roof of a building in Prague.
The book is written in a series of vignettes where we follow several characters, mostly Jewish, through their journey to survive during the war.
The stories are not sentimental, but attest to the horrors and truths of what people must compromise, whether it is for survival or for power.
I did not love the story but it was cleverly written.
Jiří Weil's book consists of chapters of connected stories with alternating protagonists, set in Prague and Theresienstadt during the last years of WWII.
The book starts out as being a bit satirical, and there are some funny parts where the Germans are being mocked, but in the concluding chapters, the humor fades away.While a part of the book is about Reinhard Heydrich, this is not just a twist to the same story that’s told in HHhH.
If you have read HHhH, you also know that its style is quite unique.
If you want a book that shows humanity in all its evil and misery this pretty much fits the bill.
Weil paints an array of characters in varying positions of power and domination struggling to stay on top or to stay alive.
Weil is particularly good at showing a society that tries to maintain some level of normality while an evil force tries to turn every aspect of life into a living hell for the occupied.
The book remains an important warning from history but seems to understand at the same time that humans do not respond to warnings.
Una sàtira s'acaba convertint en una tragèdia. A través dels seus múltiples personatges "Mendelssohn és a la teulada" retrata la repressió nazi a la ciutat de Praga. Les indiferents estàtues, muts testimonis del deliri del règim, tenen un paper fonamental al relat i una forta càrrega simbòlica. És una d’aquestes novel·les amb ànima, que batega, que t’atrapa i que, quan l’acabes, et deixa buit i l’única manera que tens d’omplir aquest buit és rellegint pàgines del llibre o parlant d’ell. Molt recomanable.Ressenya completa: https://entrelletres.cat/2018/06/03/m...
Descriptions of the people of Prague during the occupation by Germany, with episodes featuring the occupying forces and the oppressed Czechs.
This book can probably be best described as a series of short pieces, almost like short stories, but with recurring characters taking up the plot.
There is no strong central narrative thread or dominating POV, but this work is still successful as a portrayal of both the suffering of the Czechs and the monstrosities of the Nazis.
The writing is strong, with some comic interludes during the first half , but the tone gets increasingly dark as the book reaches its conclusion.
I never heard of this book or this writer, which is a shame because it is every bit as powerful as an Anne Frank or the like. Set in Prague during the occupation, the story starts off satirical with scenes about silly and stupid people who help the Germans. During the course of the story, the silly business ends and tragedy takes over. The plot follows a cast of people in some way connected to the initial confusion of the Mendelssohn statue problem and leads you through haunting scenes caused by occupier brutality.
Satire is a very powerful tool to take distance and think about reality from a different perspective, even with such a devastating historical period like the Holocaust and the Nazi occupation of Prague. In the first part of the book, Weil acutely uses humor to capture and underline the absurdity of the Nazis' modus operandi and attitude, yet the second half proves that there is a limitation in humor's ability to convey such a tragic reality entirely and that ultimately horror wins. A very interesting read in all.
An excellent book about the Nazi occupation of Prague during WW2 and their treatment of the local Jewish population told through the eyes of several imagined characters. True stories, historical fact and supposed lives are brought together into a dark retelling of one of the most depressing chapters in modern history. Weil writes with black humour about a subject that few would dare to broach in such a manner but still lends the respect that such history deserves.
SS naroči odstranitev kipa judovskega skladatelja Mendelssohna s strehe praške opere, žal pa izvrševalci naloge niti ne vedo, kako je skladatelj izgledal, zato odstranijo tistega, ki je imel največji nos. Izkaže se, da so zrušili kip Richarda Wagnerja. Weil sledi izbranim življenjskim zgodbam praške judovske skupnosti, ki jo v času češko-moravskega protektorata dušijo intrige SS in Gestapa.
