https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14756.Goodnight_Nobody
There are similarities between the three of them that are starting to make Weiner's work seem formulaic.1.
The protagonist's initial obsession about the past and an inability see or appreciate what she has in front of her.GIB: loser boyfriend/doctor in love with herIHS: past relationships with men and her sister and sister's betrayal/how to get along with sister and a good relationshipGN: man she wanted to be her boyfriend/familyDon't get me wrong: any of these books stands by itself as fun and entertaining.
However, after reading three of Weiner's books and noticing these trends, I'm tiring of the formula.
When I saw this in the bargain bin at Barnes & Noble - I thought I struck gold!
I had really liked  Good in Bed and  In Her Shoes and was excited to pick up another book by  Jennifer Weiner.
Unfortunately, this fell flat.
It was stale and I wasn't involved with the characters at all.
Her protagonist was annoying (i.e. mother dealing with a crush she had years ago and now is hemming and hawing about the what-could-have-been) all the while her husband makes attempts (small though they may be) to rekindle their marriage.
The ending left me wanting and I felt as though there were still unresolved issues.
I don't know, I don't really question that they were friends, I felt that could have been set up differently.I did like a couple of points in the book.
Or, maybe not an idiot, but bad news.
If he truly had feelings for our heroine, why didn't he ever try to get her back, at least once he and the super-model broke up?
I think that is why the author ended the book without an answer to that question.
The author states how much money her husband makes, and with the neighborhood they chose to live in, if she wanted to care enough to dress more nicely, or have her kids in better clothes, or even have them eat better food, she could.
That normal people just couldn't or wouldn't want to try to make their kids eat healthily (or at the very least, not prepared, processed, or frozen food all the time).
Will she finally run away from her life and take off with Evan, leaving 3 kids and a devastated husband behind?
I don't know if I'll finish this because, as the book goes on and on, I'm finding myself liking Kate less and less.
Her longing for a past almost-lover because her current life is so boring isn't exactly sympathy inducing stuff.
The nerve of the rotten guy!Another thing bugging me are the constant jabs at healthy eating and the people who promote it, like it's a snobbish thing to eat veggies, fruit and nuts!
Note to author: it's actually cheaper to eat the good healthy stuff in the long run and the short run if you know how to shop and can be bothered to learn how to cook.
It took me 3 months to finish this book.
I liked the first third of the book.
The second third lost me.
When she kept using the Hello Kitty notebook throughout her entire "investigation" I wanted to scream and ended up feeling very disconnected from her.
There were so many interviews and suspects I got lost.
The ending (the last 12 pages) was unbelievable.
She ended up alone at a beach house apparently happily caring for her children appropriately, a thing that could have been accomplished at her Connecticut home.
This book does not measure up to her previous novels.
Kate struggles with her life as a stay-at-home mom in suburbia.
The investigation gives her life purpose again.
Author Jennifer Weiner is right-on with the desperation stay-at-home moms feel, as we put our skills aside and our lives on hold to change diapers and clean up spilled Kool-Aid. Kate Klein is a voice for women everywhere.
In one part, Kate Klein says "son of a bitch" in front of her kids.
She feels guilty because one of the other suburban mommy's husband backed over her foot with a car and all she said was, "Fudge." - Love it.
Love it.
Love it.
She spends her days being patronised by the Perfect Mommy Brigade, playing Candyland, and wishing that once, just once, her husband would help her with the children instead of leaving early for work and coming home late from work "for the good of the family".Basically, her life kinda sucks.
And, as a stay at home Mum who was once a succesful career woman, I found her life very easy to relate to.But all of this is just the backdrop for a murder.
When one of the Perfect Mommies is murdered, Kate finds herself investigating -- not because she has any real skills.
I am a little confused as to why Weiner, one of the hottest writers today, felt it necessary to try her hand at a mystery.
After the raucous success of "In Her Shoes," "Good In Bed," and "Little Earthquakes," I expected her to keep moving on the same vein -- and I was excited about it.
But this book doesn't make the grade set by her previous three best-sellers.
The mystery is clunky, the characters annoying, and the plot disjointed.
Let's hope Weiner returns to her familiar -- and lush -- territory and leaves the mystery writing to others.
Also-I feel like there are two types of parents...well that's debatable-but two types of GOOD parents...the kind that TRULY TRULY enjoy being parents and the kind that love their children but struggle with adjusting to the lifestyle parenting demands...every main character in Jennifer Weiner's book seems to be the later.
But what I do love about Jennifer Weiner's book is that her characters are not perfect but feel like they have to appear perfect...that is often how i feel.This book started out cheesey.
Maybe it is just slow to start, but I kept trying and couldn't finish it.
(If you have read the book, you know what I mean by this.) I guess we're supposed to feel sorry for her - a stay-home mom living in a wealthy suburb raising three beautiful children - because she had to give up her career and life in the city.
I just felt like she was a whiner (no pun intended.) I just kept thinking, "What's wrong with her?
Her life isn't THAT bad!" The mystery was a little intriguing but not strong enough to make me want to continue reading this book.
She writes these delicious stories with the quirkiest and most loveable characters and they always happen to fall into my lap at just the right time.
Her stories and writing are always very similar, but different enough to make each read unique and fun.
Kate is the typical character we all come to love from Weiner; sarcastic, witty, slightly overweight, and an overall hot mess (in the normal kind of way that we can all relate to).
I challenge anyone who says that they don't like chick-lit to read just one of Weiner's novels and your life will be forever changed like mine was.
i didn't have a book to take on the bus/train for labor day weekend...a co-worker loaned me this...i was semi-interested b/c the author has another book i've wanted to read...anyhow, _goodnight nobody_ is a bit hackneyed.
trite writing about the thin, beautiful, seemingly successful types...and i'm afraid the author didn't make me very empathetic to the more "realistic" narrator...she's supposed to be smart and not thin...looking for more stimulation than she's getting from being a stay-at-home mom.
that attachment seemed really shallow...and then it seemed unfair not to describe as much her relationship w/ her husband...who seemed genuinely loving and was trying to save a marriage w/ a woman who was full of complaints.
Kate had childish expectations, which we're supposed to empathize with and reward.The writing in this book is trite and boring--rather unlike Good In Bed and Little Earthquakes, which had fresh humor and rounder characters.
It's as if the author forgot to write an ending.Jennifer Weiner has long championed the "chick lit" genre as a credible category of literature, but she's not doing the genre any favors with vapid, shallow, superficial heroines who hate their bodies and are stuck in a horrible marriage masquerading as a normal relationship.
But she is more skilled at writing her usual self-deprecating comedies like Little Earthquakes, Good in Bed and In Her Shoes.
She puts herself and her family at a huge risk just because she is feeling bored, instead of getting a job, or talking to her husband about moving back to the city, or asking him to go to counseling with her.
In classic Weiner style, she has an impossibly rich and thin best friend who is a little nutty, and can always be counted on to come through with money and power in situations that a normal person would be forced to solve more creatively.
I really didn't like this book.
Kate was extremely unlikeable.
She bumbled through the whole mystery, making false accusations at every turn.
It's a wonder she didn't end up sued for slander.
But last I checked one of them was actually making an effort and is father to her three kids.
And let's talk about her kids.
Kate whined constantly about being such a busy mom of three but more often than not she was dropping them off somewhere or leaving them with someone else.
As far as the mysteries went they were anti-climactic to the point of being laughable.
Love her books! Always fun reads!
If this were the first book I read by Weiner, I wouldn't read another. I really don't have anything to say about this book at all. It wasn't good. It wasn't bad. It was just a blah read.
At first I found this book a little hard to relate to as I don't have kids but the more I got into it, the more I enjoyed reading it as I was able to relate the underlying theme to myself.
This investigative work makes her feel alive.
Through this side stuff she is doing, she uncovers all sorts of little secrets about her neighbors and realizes that they always thought she had everything going on, not the opposite.I love the character of her best friend Janie.
She got what she wanted, she worked hard, she was a good friend, she didn't care what people thought about her and yet she was great with her best friend's kids.
I picked this book up at my local library.
They were having a sale and I had read a few other of Ms Weiner's books so I figured why not.
I started reading it and couldn't put it down.
I connected with Kate and her feelings of not being enough while at the same time knowing I'm doing just fine.
The book starts off with a murder and surprisingly you don't know who did it till the end.
This was a great book & I was glad that ending had closure without being wrapped up too neatly in a bow.
3.75-4 stars
Trapped in suburbia with three preschoolers, her days drone endlessly by in a never-ending parade of carpools, play dates, snooty super moms, and household chores.Kitty Cavanaugh is the undisputed queen of the Upchurch mommies.
Her reporter’s instinct tells her she’s closing in on the answer as she peels back the layers of Kitty’s not-so perfect life.
Kate Klein is very much an “everywoman.” She’s overwhelmed by sudden motherhood.
She’s smart, funny and more than willing to play Watson to Kate’s Sherlock.Once again, Weiner has crafted an intimate look into the lives of modern women, this time taking on suburban moms.
Evan McKenna is the private investigator the murder victim sometimes hired to find details which eluded her, and he is, briefly, a suspect in Kate's mind.I honestly don't know if I was supposed to root for her to leave her boring, safe husband for Evan, if I was supposed to hope she'd finally be able to quell all those old, stupid feelings, or if I was supposed to believe she'd strike out on her own at the end of the book.
I will admit that I don't usually read mysteries, but I felt that this one got a little confusing.
In my mind the writer should either have stuck to the mystery and the solving of the mystery, or she should have developed and clarified Kate Klein's life into a novel unto itself, without a murder to solve.Overall I give this book a 6/10- it was good, and it was interesting, but a lot of the times I kept wishing that the author would have stuck to what she writes best, "chick lit", and skipped the mystery part.
Initially, I was skeptical about how well the whole mystery thing would go, but I ended up thinking it was awesome and I hope Weiner is considering another mystery.I really love that the story is told in two different time periods; the first being the present in which the crime and investigation occur and the second being the story of Kate’s life in New York City ten years back with Janie and Evan.Honestly, the only thing that REALLY bugged me about this story was Weiner’s choice to use the name Kitty as a main character.
She is very talented, even if I don't always agree with her decisions.Surprisingly, I probably liked this book the best out of any of Jennifer Weiner's books.
I don't believe in books' endings being wrapped up in neat little bows.
And at least with the author's other books, they had endings.
That's a little annoying.Personally, if I were the author, Kate would end up back with Ben. I can't believe she doesn't love him a little bit; she is too intelligent to have married someone she only "likes," as she says at one point in the book.
Mais en réalité, elle s'ennuie ferme et ne se retrouve pas dans son quotidien de femme au foyer.
Accompagnée de son amie de toujours, l'excentrique et fringante Janie, elle décide d'élucider le mystère qui secoue la petite communauté d'Upchurch tout en continuant d'assurer, avec plus ou moins de réussite, son rôle de "super maman".Une comédie policière pour les filles, écrite par une fille, voilà qui m'a mis aussitôt l'eau à la bouche !
Les "Housewives" sont encore un peu trop "Desperate" mais désormais, elle jouent aussi aux détectives !
Un roman de chick lit différent, créatif, que je recommanderais à toutes les mamans qui ont besoin de décompresser !
The ending was really unsatisfying, though I am glad to say that the book didn't meet my predictions and Kate didn't leave her husband for Evan.
Overweight, less than fabulous girl ends up with less than fabulous guy.
Don't have sex before your eight week check up girls!)Kate is bored in the 'burbs.
Kate feels inadequate.When one of the mommy elite reaches out to Kate, she's initially thrilled, but when she finds Kitty dead of a stab wound on her model home kitchen floor, things start to get dicey.Kate fights with her work-a-holic husband and deals with abandonment issues regarding her fabulous mother.
The book ends without giving any real resolution to Kate's story.
When one of the ubermommies turns up dead, Kate can't resist the lure of trying to solve the crime, which causes her path to cross with a former boyfriend -- the one that got away.Part who done it, part a commentary on married life with children in the suburbs, this book seemed like it should have a lot going for it.
While the murder mystery is resolved, the problem of an unsatisfied life as a stay-at-home mom in the lonely suburbs with a husband who is never there versus the tug of a past love is never fully treated or resolved, which left me frustrated.
She finds one Mom particularly intriguing and soon she invites her over with her kids for a playdate.
Upon her arrival the door is open and there lies her new found friend...DEAD...Although this highly upsets our main character she still finds herself intrigued and then she stumbles upon a name from the past, a man whom she truly loved...The rest of the story ensues with our main character getting involved in some very zany, entertaining ways of figuring out who murdered this playground Mom. Her best friend is another character who you will love and the story keeps you wanting more.
