https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/631126.The_Secret_of_the_Wooden_Lady
This is not the format I read; mine is the original text book and the updated one shown may have a different story.
That being said, I haven't read this book since I was a pre-teen.
I read it now in preparation for a convention I'm attending.
Nancy and her friends, Bess and George, accompany Mr. Drew to Boston where a sea captain living on an old clipper ship has been bothered by prowlers.
I loved all the old history about the clipper ship and the fact that the prowlers were looking for hidden treasure.
It's all in a day's work for Nancy!
I love a Nancy Drew book where she journeys outside River Heights and encounters average folks who don't know who she is.
We see a sheriff and a deputy and maybe a couple extra police guys in training.In this book, supposedly in Boston, Nancy is trying to solve a mystery of a clipper ship.
Go tell the police."These guys don't give a flip.
Nancy needs to continue her search for the "old sailor," nicknamed throughout as "Grizzle Face Quint."She does attempt to notify the police, but they're not much help either.
I think when I was younger, my favorite part was solving the puzzle, but as an adult, the puzzle and its solution seem pretty improbable to start with.I also played at Nancy Drew with my friends when I was a kid.
Nancy and friends are all over the place all the time, following up on their leads and getting new information to chase after.Now I'm tempted to get my hands on one of the titles I know I've read before and see how that goes, but I don't think I'm likely to go on a serious ND binge - I want realism in my mysteries, and these things are pure fantasy.
I recently reread this book after moving my book collection out of my mother's house.
I read it probably many times as a child although I was really a fan of The Boxcar Children.
And rereading this...
it seems to make sense why.This felt much more dated than The Boxcar Children.
These were older women than the characters in The Boxcar Children, but the women felt more delicate, even though they were the...
This did happen to some degree in The Boxcar Children, but that was more an adventure and this is more a mystery...
with little mystery.
In the book before this one, George suddenly started saying "Hypers!" as an expletive or interjection.
If she doesn't stop it, I'm going to quit reading because it is driving me CRAZY.The girls are helping some guy on a ship, and he thinks the ship is haunted, but really it's full of thieves.
Also, once again, Nancy falls into the move obvious and transparent trap ever.
At this point in the series, repeated head trauma/drugging is totally plausible for this decrease of cognitive force.Nancy is rendered unconscious by an unknown assailant with a magic sleeper hold.
Bess is also made unconscious by the same assailant.
Bess also faints after being locked in a closet.
The Nancy Drew mystery book series wins again with this great, thrilling mystery story.
Mr. Drew asks Nancy to come to the Boston area with him to help clear up the mysteries.
And Bess and her cousin George Fayne wind up joining Nancy and her father on the seaside adventure.Then in the bayside town where the Bonny Scot lies in harbor, Nancy spies the jewel thief.
Nancy and the girls take up residence on the ship to search for clues that might help Mr. Drew find a clear title as well as to find out how the intruders can get off and on the vessel without being seen.
#27 in the Nancy Drew mystery seriesThis was another enjoyable addition to the children's mystery series about Nancy Drew (and friends).
(And as a child when I read these books, it never occurred to me that any of these actions were amiss.) Furthermore, the cops at each town (her hometown, Boston, Provincetown) all welcome her "clues" and ask her to keep them informed when she discovers more, even going so far as to arrest people at her say-so.
But all that being aside, the mystery was enjoyable, and the story was quick and easy to read.
I found a jigsaw puzzle on clearance at Barnes & Noble that had all the original covers of Nancy Drew books. I of course bought it, and we completed it in 3 days. It got me all excited to re-read these original 56 stories. Such great memories of them!! I am hoping that my library carries most if not all of these books.
nancy drew, you own my heart
If you read the books from the beginning till the later books (the original one to sixty-four ones), you could discern the level of intricacy of the mysteries that Nancy and the gang encounter as well as how the characters were written.Now, there are basic characteristics that the writers falls on when it comes to Nancy, George and Bess.
Over the succeeding books from The Secret of the Old Clock, the girls' characteristics had slight gradients but still retain some core features: Nancy notices behavior and would be suspicious of a random development, George would sometimes err on the side of caution and Bess would surprise you and even instigate going into danger.But here?
This is number 27 in the Nancy Drew series. In this adventure, this is mystery and suspense makes you want to continue reading. Carolyn Keene has out done herself once again. The text is about an eight-teen-year-old detective who will go to any lengths to find to bandit. Many readers would appreciate this book because of the amazing grammer that is found on every page. If I were you I would buy this book.
Nancy Drew and her friends look for a missing figurehead to prove ownership of a old clipper ship. An entertaining mystery.
I love reading Nancy Drew occasionally!
I just love Nancy Drew books .I have not read a Nancy Drew book that I is not good
High marks for imagery. There seemed to be something iconic about the wooden lady that brought this one to a higher level.
Nancy travels to Boston to help him out, because some assholes are breaking into the ship, busting shit up, and then flitting off like ghosts.
Nancy finds that the asshole who did it apparently took off his own ring to try on Bess's dad's diamond ring, and so he left his ring behind.The robber, of course, is also busting in on the ship.
Nancy gives the ruby to the granddaughter.Nancy's souvenirs:-a drawing of the ship, which was originally called Dream of Melissa, as it originally looked-the snuff box!-a Neptune figurehead Nancy randomly found in the water, as you do.
Not my favorite.
Nancy and the gang just made the same mistakes over and over in this one.
If you know a person(s) is sneaking aboard the ship all the time, the first thing you should do is find out how said person(s) are doing it.
But noooo.
Let’s just putz around leading the bad guys to the treasure on multiple occasions.
For the worlds #1 girl detective she sure wasn’t her quick witted self in this one.
Also real pissed at Ned for his extremely sexist comment about the ladies saying that a ship always needs a cook.
Nice Ned. Real nice.
We shook things up in the mystery by heading out to sea! Even the hint of pirates is enough to get me hooked, but we also had thieves with nom-de-plumes ("The Crow"), kidnappings, and a shipboard fire. As always, Nancy taught us a thing or two as she went about uncovering the mystery; this time is was all about clipper ships and rubies. Unfortunately, Ned got dinged a few points when he made a sexist remark about the girls only being invited onto the ship as cooks.
Read by: Sydnie Schauer. What I liked about this book was that it was very interesting and suspenseful. I also liked how it ended the way it did. I knew who the bad guy was. What I didn't like about this book, however, was that I wasn't really that interested in the book. It was almost boring to me.
Another find at #HPB.
Nancy Drew is a bad ass lol
I wish I could have hunches that were always right, like Nancy does. Then I could figure out who wore my socks or ate my chocolate :P
3.75
So much nostalgia! It was more entertaining than I expected, given the time in which it was written. Last page was missing ☹️
The Secret of the Wooden Lady  is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 27th book in the  Nancy Drew  series. When Carson Drew is asked to find the title papers for a friend's ship, Nancy Drew becomes involved in the case by trying to find out who is "haunting" the ship and the story behind the ship's missing figurehead. I’ve always been a voracious reader. So, as a child, one of my favorite things about summer was the frequent trips to our local library, which was less than a
is a children's story by Carolyn Keene (pseudonym) and the 27th book in the 
And as I would read her most current adventure, I would imagine myself following in her footsteps … taking charge and plunging ahead, getting into mischief, chasing down culprits and solving the mystery.
Even though I haven’t re-read any of these books since I was a child, I still think that Nancy is a great character—her courage, confidence and fierce independence, makes her an iconic source of inspiration for young girls everywhere.
A must-read children's book, 
is another wonderful Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy Drew would be pretty old now.
I wonder if they ever did any books about her adult life.
I wonder if she ever did become a detective?Read this years ago and I liked it more now.
But once Nancy got on the boat, the mystery kicked off and it was all go.
Nancy always finds a clue as the criminals are always dropping things and her dad doesn't seem that bothered that his daughter is putting herself in danger.
Does hold the test of time pretty well, think children and nostalgic adults will enjoy their time with Nancy Drew!
This time she is trying to help her dad's friend become the owner of the Bonny Scot the ship he has been renting.
Then Nancy found out there were stowaways on the ship.
Then a fire started Nancy still was looking for the real name of the Bonny Scot and in the end she found it.
She did some looking around and found sayings like long live the dream of melissa.
They found the boat was the dream of melissa and the captian got to keep the ship as his home.
As for the stowaways they got arrested and are spending their time in jail.
This is a review of the 27th book in the Nancy Drew Mystery series, and refers to the 1967 revised text.Nancy's father is called to try to clear up the ownership of a boat so a Captain Easterly can buy it.
Someone has been going through the boat, trashing the rooms, looking for something.Nancy works with Bess and George and, for a short time, with Ned and his friends, to try to find out who is doing this and what they are after.
I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew.
It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain.
Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy.
No brains.
To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation.
Carolyn Keene wrote just for me!
That is how I felt.
When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ...
I also loved the Hardy Boys.
No wonder I loved these series.Great for girls aged 8 and up.
