https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106124.Bone_Vol_4
The tension in this series is escalating nicely. I was actually reading this on the edge of my seat at points. The series seems like a slowburn, but it works, because you're invested in these characters and understand their motivations. It's good comic book writing.
This series just keeps getting better and better. And also darker, which I really like. Can't wait to read next one.
Fone Bone, Thorn and Grandma Ben come under attack from the rat creatures, including their leader, the huge Kingdok. The lovely Thorn continues to suffer from nightmares about her youth and true identity. Back in Barrelhaven, Phoney Bone pretends he is a Dragonslayer to take advantage of simple townspeople and to make himself wealthy. Finally, Fone Bone and Smiley discover an abandoned baby rat creature cub, and decide to return him. I was disappointed by this book, which I expect is a bridge to the next set of adventures involving the Hooded One's attack on the Valley.
Still going strong with the Bone at my house. G is nightly all, "Maybe we should do our weading now?" and who am I to tell him no? We are very interested to see who's under that hood. He has also assembled a Lego Bone set. It has a Thorn, those two rat creatures who fight about quiche, and the hooded guy, but strangely, no Bones.
Brilliant mystery in a fantasy land world that is not here.
I think this might be where the series starts to take a more serious turn. Even Phoney's scheming isn't quite as funny this time around.
Sve bolje i bolje. Akcija se sprema i prica krece u pun napad.
Granma Ben is the best
In some realms you can tell that this is a volume full of that "trying to draw it out", but it never takes away from the overall feel of the franchise.
Overall if you have read the other books in the series you will not be disappointed by this one because it keeps the momentum going.
This book also reveals enough of the overall plot to be fine for a first time Bone reader, though I would still recommend reading from the first volume.
My favorite line in this volume is when Fone Bone confronts Phoney Bone about his lying and Phoney Bone explains that the villagers like being victims, "People like to be victims!
Fone Bone is explaining the revelations to Lucius & Smiley Bone and Smiley says, "I mean, who'd have thought that our little Thorn -- living in a cottage with her Grandmother out in the middle of an old, dark forest -- would turn out to be a princess." I love it when author's don't take themselves and their work too seriously.
Having previously read the first three books in the series nearly two years, I was a bit apprehensive to start again fearing I wouldn’t love the series as much as I did before.
I decided to take a chance and read it anyway and I loved it!
This was a great read and has kept me wanting more of the nine volume series which I would definitely recommend to anyone who enjoys a fantastic story with an out of this world plot that continuously layers itself with every book!
The fourth in it's series, written by Jeff Smith, is a story of three brothers who go through a great ordeal of adventures as they try to survive in the valley.
The main characters in this graphic novel are Phoney Bone, Smiley Bone, Thorn, The Hooded One, and Fone Bone.
The setting takes place in the valley, and The perspective swaps from the Bone brothers and thorn to the Hooded One and the lord of the locusts.
While this is happening, the rat creatures break the treaty and war breaks out between those of the valley and the stickmen against the Lord of the Locusts and his legions of followers.
The book I have read is called "Bone, Vol. 4: The Dragonslayer."This book is a great book especially the author.
The book is about one of the bone characters was pretending that the dragons are dangerous which they are not.
He made up a story that he can defeat the dragons.
So everyone decide to praise him and treat him like a king because the whole village thought he was the only one who can defeat the dragon.
I really like this book it says that there is going to be a part two which I am excited.
2015 rereadVol 4, in which Thorn freaks the &%!$ out, and Phoney sets off to slay a dragon."Should I blow on it? Would that help?""Blow on it? He's gushing blood, you idiot! His arm is off!"---"Again the with quiche?! What kind of self-respecting monster would eat a dainty pastry dish?! STEW is what we will make of their bones!""Don't get greedy on me! There's THREE of them! I just want the little one for my quiche!""It has nothing to do with greed! It's a matter of principle! Monsters do NOT eat QUICHE!"
This book is easy and interesting. Because it is about them trying to catch a dragon and they did. But phone bone and the others were trying to get away from big animals. the only way to stop that by happening is by killing a dragon.
Story really starts to pick up from here. Phoney bone taking advantage of the villagers was hilarious.
idc
I liked this book and I highly recommend this graphic novel to other people.
De ontdekking van de hemel was te zwaar om mee te sleuren op de trein, dan maar deel 4 gelezen! Nog steeds geweldig en benieuwd naar verder verloop! Maar toch ook enger met de rattenbeesten, dus denk dat ik de jongste zoon even ga weghouden van de volgende delen... ook al is hij grote fan van Fone Bone...
The book starts out with Phoney Bone making a bet that he can sell more beer than his boss.
He makes up a lie that the dragons are evil and will kill all the town members, so Phoney calls himself “The Dragonslayer”, after saying that the whole town is buying beer from him.
By the time Fone Bone gets back to town Phoney is already in charge of the whole town talking about killing the dragons.
The town members get suspicious that Phoney is a fake so they tell him to go out hunting for a dragon.
The only flaw in his plan is that he'll eventually have to kill a dragon, even though they are really friendly protectors and not sworn enemies of the valley people.A more significant plot line is the journey of Gran'ma Ben, Thorn, and Fone Bone back to Barrelhaven.
Gran'ma is carried off and Thorn faces the decision to accept her fate as a hero and princess or to run away from it all.Meanwhile the forces of evil are amassing on the outskirts of the valley and ready to go to war with the people of the valley, especially the residents of Barrelhaven.
The series continues to get darker with each installment it looks like, though somehow the author manages very well to incorporate all of humor, pathos, fear and thrills into one book.Fone Bone, Thorn and Grandma Ben come under attack from the rat creatures, including their leader, the huge Kingdok.
Having convinced everyone that Dragons are no good and are evil, he poses as a Dragonslayer to prey on the fears of the simple minded townspeople and to keep himself well fed and in comfort.
And to top it all off, Fone Bone and Smiley vanish while trying to set free a rat creature cub they find within the town limits.
Review to follow.
I see now, going to write this review, that I skipped book 3 and went straight to this, book 4 of the "Bone" series.
Interestingly, "Bone" is a bit like a beloved sitcom TV show in that I didn't miss skipping an entire volume at all.
It's like nothing happened in book 3...Book 4 is about Phoney Bone's swindling the townsfolk into believing that dragons are a danger, and so they exalt him and pay his exorbitant fees to "protect" them from the non-existent threat.
Meanwhile, Thorn begins to Turn and we find out a bit more about the Locust and their motivations.
this book talked about the bone and his cousins and how his cousin is a phoney dragon slayer.
They had to fight some kind of rat monsters and she wants nothing to do with them.
then she has some crazy dreams about dragons and her dead parents the bone finds a cub of those rat monsters and then they run off to free the thing.
Then the villagers go and trap a dragon and then they want to kill it and the rats come to attack them.
Then the rats attack the village and then the dragon goes to fight with them.
This is the fourth book --in a series of nine-- about three cousins from Boneville who are forced to leave town due to debt. Their adventures begin almost immediately and eventually they settle in a valley filled with mythological creatures such as dragons and enormous rat creatures. The continuous moral conflict between the three cousins and their interaction with the inhabitants of the valley make for great adventure. The books has serious parts but also humor. I highly recommend this series to anyone who likes graphic novels.
This book is AMAZING!!! I'm gonna start reading this book's series. I feel like the Dragon Slayer is pretty dumb if you read this book. i recommend this book to a person that likes comics, 6th grader and to a 7th grader. I feel like Grandma Ben is safe or maybe she is captuared from the rat creatures.
I like the way that two of the bones wanted to help a cub.Phony bone wanted to steal all the goods by pretending to be a dragon slayer and then thorn was getting haunted in her dreams. My opinion is that this book has a cool adventure.I'll recommend this book for the people that love adventure.
I really liked this book because it said how they fought these rat things and it was cool to read I want to read all the books and i will recommend this book to CYCY because she reads books kind of like this but different.
