https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25613472-a-list-of-cages
wow. this book has one big emotional punch. it's gonna take me a few days to recover. i went into this book not knowing anything about it & i instantly added it to my list of favorite books when i finished it.
I don’t know how a book can splinter in my mind with a haze of pain around it, make tears spring unbidden to my eyes and generally feel as though I was seeing into a bottomless well of anguish, but then, right when I thought the flint shell of my heart would crack, it hits me with a keen pang of hope and sets like a little ball of tingling warmth in the pit of my stomach.A List of Cages is a beautiful, soul-crushing love letter to friendships that heal the broken pathways of your heart and hope that can’t be washed away by the torrent of despair, to the pain we survive in youth and to the courage it takes to will your fragments into finding a way to mesh back together into a single person.
What an incredible, heart achingly beautiful story. This book surprised me by how engrossed I was. I cared for the characters immensely. I was sent this for review/ to do a sponsored video surrounding it by Disney Hyperion (thank you to them!) so stay tuned for a review and that video coming soon!!
Julian and Adam may be four years apart in age, but that doesn’t keep them from being able to connect to one another on a meaningful level – so meaningful that it made me realize that friendships between two young men are rarely so thoroughly explored in YA contemporary, without going in the romantic direction.
The author doesn’t seek to control our reactions, but of course being the decent human beings that we are, we quickly notice that Russell has deep-rooted issues that only hurt Julian and prevent him from living a good life.
It absolutely DAMAGED MY SOUL but it was beautiful and heartfelt and the characters just sort of sneaked off the page and became incredibly real and relatable people to me and just GAHHHHH I LOVED IT SO MUCH I CANNOT EVEN.
They met when they were little because Julian has dyslexia and Adam was in a group helping younger kids to read.
Which is very realistic for ADHD people, as far as I know.JULIAN: he has dyslexia and he's just started higschool (I think?)...he's 14 anyway.
The abuse Julian goes through is horrifying to read and crushing and, gah, I just wanted to snatch him out of this book and keep him safe.
You will hate his guts if you read this wonderful book and find out what all he puts Julian through.
The book is told through Julian and Adam.
When Julian was young he lived with Adam for awhile until the evil uncle claimed him.
I really loved Adam's friends too.
And when they all took Julian in as a friend and were so nice to him (even the ones that acted like a butt to him at first) it made me feel all mushy inside.
❤It was nice to read a book about good kids for once and not all of the bullies.
The bullies in the book were some adults.
every once in awhile i am truly blown away by a story.
the book will cause me feel a range of emotions that i didnt expect to experience.
its a story that burrows itself deep into my heart.
it shows that really tough things happen to young people.
it shows that every person is able to make a difference.
it shows that even the most difficult of times can lead to something better.
i love this book for showing that.
this is the kind of book that leaves the reader better than it found it, and for that, i am truly grateful and humbled.
But what I love most about "sad, depressing, and heartbreaking" books is that stay with me for a long long time.
It was absolutely horrible and heartbreaking to read about this innocent fourteen year old boy being treated like this.
I loved him.Adam is such an amazing character as well.
He's so caring, lovable, and kind towards everyone.
Though I enjoyed reading from his POV, I looked forward to Julians' POV's more.
Like, I'm seriously crying over Adam and Julian's relationship.
They love and care for each other so much and they are always there for each other.
I know what I think, but people don't want you to say what you think. They want you to say what they think. And knowing what that is isn't easy.  Mental health books are some of my favorites to read because they're so powerful and beautiful, capturing you in the struggled lives of the people suffering and living with this illness they have. Every book I've read that is labeled as a "contemporary mental health book" has been one I've loved, like and enjoyed. I haven't ended up disliking any exc
When he bumps into Adam, all Julian thinks of is running away and avoiding him because he knows all the secrets he has been hiding from him, but little did he know that running into him would mean starting a new life.A List of Cages is about finding new friendships and new people to rely on when you feel like everything is going downhill.
But what adds to this book's power is the fact that its plot isn't fantasy, and there are children dealing with these issues every day.Life changed for Julian five years ago when his beloved parents died.
He remembers many of the things Julian enjoyed when he was younger, and does everything he can to integrate Julian into his wide circle of friends, despite the difference in their ages, and despite Julian's efforts to try not to call attention to himself.Adam, who tries valiantly to keep his own ADHD in check (not always successfully), is dealing with his own issues, including a crush on a long-time friend, and his best friend Charlie's unhappiness.
The protagonists, Adam and Julian, both have psychological problems.
If Adam and Julian won't make you cry (or at least tearful), then you need to have a doctor heal your stone cold heart!With that in mind, the best thing I liked about this book was its character-driven story.
As flawed as they were, Adam and Julian's personalities felt so authentic.
And since the novel was written in dual perspectives, I loved getting to know them in a deeper and virtually personal way.
Adam's chapters were fun and lighthearted, while Julian's chapters were generally morose and tear-jerking.
It alternates between the POVs of Adam and his former foster brother Julian who was taken away from Adam's family a few years ago by a seriously psychotic uncle who abuses him beyond anything I ever wanted to read about.
I did love the quote that "hate ricochets, but kindness does too." I had heard that quote before reading this and kind of expected something at least MILDLY hopeful or uplifting from the story.
I'm fine with traumatic stories if they're meaningful, but most of the abuse felt like a bit too much like a plot device for me.
This book just destroyed me.
I may have already found my top book of 2017, because I don't know how something will top this. So sad I didn't read this in time to include it in an OwlCrate box. It comes out on January 10th and I highly encourage everyone to pick it up!
Out today! (I received a free arc from Netgally in exchange for an honest review. This book comes out in January 2017.)"I used to think that if I concentrated, I could make myself disappear. I don't believe that anymore, but sometimes I still have to try."Trigger warning: (view spoiler)[ Child abuse. (hide spoiler)]Holy guacamole. I think I've just been eaten by a giant blob of feels. This was one of easiest five stars I've given so far this year. This book is definitely the next big thing. Like
This book comes out in January 2017.)"I used to think that if I concentrated, I could make myself disappear.
This book is definitely the next big thing.
This is a list of what I liked about this book: (See what I did there?
This book deals with a main character that suffers from ADHD which was extremely interesting since I've never read any book that mentioned this condition before.
The way everything you said and did was beautiful or entertaining or important.
One of the sweetest characters I've ever read about.
An EXTREMELY emotional book. I cried like a baby, sobbed. Unfathomable what was endured. I NEED a follow up to this book, ten years from now, what happens, how are they coping as adults???
4.5/5 starsDo you ever finish a book and know you're going to be thinking about it for a long while after? That's how I feel about this book.The sentiments are so powerful, as is the story. I love that it was mostly about friendship and helping people through that. I LOVED both of these characters so much, especially Adam. He was a picture of unconditional love to Julian and I literally just teared up thinking about it.Everyone was very right about this book - it's amazing and wonderful and really really powerful. I liked it a whole lot.
2.5 Stars    “Hate ricochets, but kindness does too.”   This is a book that says some beautiful, important things, but uses an exploitive, painful abuse storyline to do so. …okay. Bear with me. I know that’s a big statement, and I know the majority disagrees with me. But the whole time I read this… I just felt unsettled? The overwhelming focus is on the physical manifestations of abuse and very little on any healing? Sure, the narrative mentions healing, but the plot is just one horrible, horrib
This is a book that says some beautiful, important things, but uses an exploitive, painful abuse storyline to do so.
The overwhelming focus is on the physical manifestations of abuse and very little on any healing?
This also felt apparent in the way every single adult was a horrible archetype.
It continued to amp up the drama of the situation and create another kids-don’t-trust-adults-or-ask-for-help story.
The romance that was present was cute, and featured a brief, but important discussion of consent and sex positivity.
Maybe it's just me.
Maybe I just never connected with the story.
Maybe I missed something.
Warning:  Only read this book if you’re prepared for intense feelings of pain, anguish, and some awesomesauce friendship/brotherhood. From the reviews I’ve read from my friends, I knew this book would be heartbreaking, but I didn’t expect it to be the rip-your-heart-out-of-your-chest-and-stomp-on-it-until-it-desingrates type of heartbreak. . . . turns out it was.The chapters switch alternatively between Julian ((my baby))’s perspective and Adam ((my baby)’s perspective. Julian needs to be prote
Only read this book if you’re prepared for intense feelings of pain, anguish, and some awesomesauce friendship/brotherhood.
From the reviews I’ve read from my friends, I knew this book would be heartbreaking, but I didn’t expect it to be the rip-your-heart-out-of-your-chest-and-stomp-on-it-until-it-desingrates type of heartbreak.
Honestly, he’s literally the most sweetest, caring, older-brother-figure, my heart is tearing up again.
There are many things in this book that will make you feel incredibly uneasy ((again, protect baby Julian)) but I think that just adds more to the pain of the book.
Honestly, it was objective and honest and not in any way degrading.
I absolutely loved Julian.
The second half of this book is absolutely heartbreaking and I just wanted to give Julian a big hug.
Julian: My main critique with this book is the writing style.
I thought the two main characters were developed, but the side characters lacked depth and felt like rough sketches of people.
But with those criticisms aside, I think the strength of this book is its message.
I think this is an important book for younger readers.
Julian and Adam’s narrative is one that I think can have a positive impact on readers.
BEAUTIFUL.Its better get into the story with knowing nothing about it but...Well, the two main characters are Julian a 14 year old kid that have Dyslexia and Adam a 18 year old senior who has ADHD.Julian is shy, always frightened, kind of broken, he's afraid of everything( of talking, moving, Spider-Man movies EVERYTHING) he's in freshmen year of high school but every classmate makes fun of him because he acts like a child and loves to read Elian Mariner's books (books that are meant for kids) maybe it is because his childhood was the best part of his life until his Parents died.
A List of Cages is a story of an unusual friendship between an ADHD diagnosed senior superstar ( Adam) and a dyslexic freshman “nobody” (Julian).
The story is told in their alternating perspectives and both their voices seem very genuine.
While Julian is timid and easily intimidated being a victim of domestic abuse, Adam is everybody’s darling.
While nobody seems to like or care about Julian, everybody loves Adam which he doesn’t seem to notice because he’s just genuinely kind to everybody.
Adam who even though is no Superman or Spiderman is definitely a hero in this story.
”Hate ricochets but kindness does too.”
(I received an advance copy of this book for free.
Thanks to Disney Book Group and NetGalley.)This was a YA contemporary story, about a boy with ADHD and his younger friend.Adam cared for Julian in this story, and he certainly went above and beyond to try to keep him safe and to work out what was going on with him.The storyline in this was about Julian being abused, and Adam trying to help him.
Things did improve a bit towards the end, and I did feel sorry for Julian, and, yes this book was about an important subject, but I’d have appreciated it more if it had kept my interest a bit better.The ending to this was okay, and things seemed to work out pretty well in the end.6 out of 10
A List of Cages is not a book that grabs your attention immediately.At least, it was not in my case.I saw it’s cover on Netgalley, but didn’t pay much attention to it until I got an invitation to review it.That invitation made me read what this story is actually about, and, since it sounded interesting and like something that could possibly make me learn something new, I decided to give it a try.I am so glad I did!
"People heal a whole lot faster when they're with someone who loves them." A List of Cages will be the most emotional book I read this year, I feel. It was painful. It was so damn good that I couldn't put it down. If you know me, you know I go to bed before 10pm every night without fail, I'll usually stop talking to you at 8:30pm as well. However, I was up until midnight finishing this book and crying into my pillow. I've thought about this book for a week and I still can't possibly formulate a
"People heal a whole lot faster when they're with someone who loves them."
A List of Cages will be the most emotional book I read this year, I feel.
It was painful.
It was so damn good that I couldn't put it down.
However, I was up until midnight finishing this book and crying into my pillow.
I've thought about this book for a week and I still can't possibly formulate a review that properly articulates my feelings for this book so, have some gifs:So many emotions still.
READ THIS BOOK.
EMOTIONS HOLY HECK. Video review to come!
What a powerful read. I'd highly recommend. RTC.
é um livro sobre TORTURA.
Um livro tão rapidinho que me tomou 1 mês pra ler, porque não queria ler de uma vez só, mas ai tive que correr no fim do mês pra comentar no vídeo de leituras e SOFRI.PORÉM, o fato é: o livro é maravilhoso.
Os personagens são ótimos, a autora consegue te envolver tanto na história que é por isso que você se incomoda tanto!
São poucos os livros que conseguem me fazer chorar, ainda mais assim tão no início.Enfim, fica a dica e o aviso.
Livro ótimo, mas também não é pra qualquer um.
Ten million stars.
“Hate ricochets, but kindness does too.” Trigger Warning: (view spoiler)[Child abuse. And Stockholm syndrome? (hide spoiler)]"A list of Cages" is about these two boys, Adam who is a senior high school student with ADHD who meets Julian who was his foster brother years ago. But Adam notices that Julian still has problems and hides lots of secrets. So, Adam is determined to help him, but his involvement could cost both boys their lives..It reminded me of "The Perks of Being a Wallflower" which I
(hide spoiler)]"A list of Cages" is about these two boys, Adam who is a senior high school student with ADHD who meets Julian who was his foster brother years ago.
It felt like Julian is Adam's younger brother.
And how determined is Adam to help Julian with his problems and suffering and how he wanted to keep him safe and happy.Also, I liked how the mental illness is represented in this book as "Adam" has ADHD which I have heard of as a medical term in college but never read about in a fiction book before.It read as a middle grade book as I felt the writing style is so juvenile.
