https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32977.Nancy_s_Mysterious_Letter
One thing you can always count on when reading a Nancy Drew mystery is an original story line.
There were a few scenes that weren’t realistic at all such as one where the girls are in the convertible and it is noted that Nancy had put the top up earlier as the day appeared cloudy and raw.
It is November, it starts to snow in the same scene, yet Nancy had been riding around with the top down the day before?
Overall, as part of the series it’s an okay read with a weak mystery.
i'm extremely extremely busy these days which is why i haven't been on goodreads as much for the past few days but RTC i promise
I know this might sound messed up of me, but one of the things I liked in this mystery, is how much Nancy got scolded for being spoiled, lazy and "modern" which showed a lot of how sexist the times were back then.
Also it's good the original books mentioned the "colored" maid and janitor and stuff, not that I like that it was racist, but again, it shows true to the times...and their dialogue of the maid and janitor sounded exactly like how the characters of Their Eyes Were Watching God..it gave me weird de ja vu about that book lol :p Also, I think in the modern edition Nancy gets chloroformed or something?
And that was more adventureous than the story in this book.So in this do nothing book, I stopped short of finding out if the mailman gets his job back, but we know he does or at least gets his pension, and he did have an estate given to him, so he was going to spend his twilight years raising guinea pigs or hamsters, one of those.
May 2017 RereadI loved this book this time around. I listened to it in audio and found the story interesting and fun. I loved how Nancy was on the hunt for the other Nancy Drew and man was it hard to track her down! Lol! Great read. **This was a good mystery. I enjoyed the hunt for another Nancy Drew and found that part very interesting. A nice read.
This was a very fascinating book
Mail fraud and mistaken identities!Meek elderly mail carrier has a mean, no-good brother who convinces single ladies to mail money to him.Meanwhile, Nancy and her gal pals visit Ned's college to watch him play footballs.
Yeeeeh!" Meanwhile, Ned faints on the field and is taken to the bench.Weekend plans for the girls and their football guys include a play on Friday night, the game and a dance on Saturday, and a chapel service on Sunday morning.If anything gets more wholesome, I'm gonna throw up.And yet again, Nancy Drew meets another lady named Nancy Drew and some inheritance confusion occurs.This was a messy one.
After having a few "Nancy Drew" novels as a youngster, it is fun to read all of them in order.
My yellow hardcovers are the rewrites, whereas my Mom's generation would know Nancy's spunkier portrayals.Melanie Rehak's essay is worth reading to understand the marvel Mildred was.
No wonder "Nancy's Mysterious Letter" is one of the weakest.
My careful summary is that this mystery derives from a stolen mailbag.
Worse, Nancy knew there was an international letter for her but dillydallied to read it.
The mystery would have been just fine, had Nancy read the letter and pursued its puzzle directly.
What a fun walk down memory lane! I loved the Nancy Drew mystery series when I was younger and I find I still do. The characters are as fun as I remember them. Plus Carolyn Keene does not hold back on the mystery and suspense just because Nancy is a teenager. There were quite a few attempts on Nancy's life to prevent her from solving the mystery. All of this with the backdrop of visiting her boyfriend Ned's college campus, going to a football game, and a formal dance. Classic Nancy Drew fun...
Not the typical Nancy Drew story, but it was great fun as she tries to find the heiress with the identical name.
In this book Nancy allows herself to gullibly and blindly be led into a "powder room", and then be led around to a back corner, where this happens: "The next instant the strange woman opened her purse and whipped out a handkerchief from a plastic bag.
She grabbed Nancy around the neck and held the handkerchief tight over the girl's nose and mouth.
Because this is an old kids story, of course your friends find you in chapter 20 in the powder room nursery "lying under a crib, covered with a blanket".
Yes, I realize this is an old fictional kids story in a series.
Mystery #8 in which we learn that Nancy is a very skilled parallel parker!
This was one of my least favorite Nancy Drew mysteries.
This is a lackluster story that hardly puts our pal Nancy in danger at all.
We discover that one of the letters inside was a letter for Nancy Drew, informing her of a large inheritance from a British relative.
Alas, it's not for our Nancy, but for ANOTHER Nancy Drew, who just happens be in the River Heights area directing a Shakespearean play.
Nancy promptly puts on her sleuthing hat and solves the mystery.
#8 in the Nancy Drew series, so this was a very early one, written in 1932.
It's always fun to read through one of these books.
At the time I first read it (at around age 10 maybe?), I remember enjoying this series very much.
As an adult, it's amusing to read about Nancy calling up the police chief and giving him clues to solve his cases--and he was very receptive!
Keeping in mind that this was written for children in the 1930's, it's innocent and pleasant and entertaining, and a quick read.
When Nancy's mail carrier's mail is stolen the sleuth sets out to track down the culprit.
It's a straightforward case of stolen mail, right?
A letter addressed to Nancy Drew was stolen alongside the others.
But Nancy soon learns the letter was meant for someone else.
Could there possibly be TWO Nancy Drews?!A mysterious letter, a swindling crook, and danger await.
I loved these books as a kid and re-reading this one was an absolute treat!
Nancy Drew Mysteries will forever be one of the best mystery series for all.
Special thanks to Elysia for choosing this series for Book Club!
The story/plot was again wonderful but the narrator....Well all I can say is at times it felt like she was just saying "blah blah blah"I miss Laura Linney, also the background mysterious music.
Wonderful book! I think my favorite Nancy Drew book that I have read so far is The Bungalow Mystery. One of my favorite things about these books, is that you don't have to wait a long time for the mystery to come up. It usually happens in the first chapter. I love Nancy's friends, and they are in this one a lot. Solving this mystery proved to be very dangerous, but she never gave up.
a lonely hearts predator is on the prowl and nancy seems to have a mysterious twin. there's some nice double idenity shenanigans going on in this one.
More fun and excitement from this series.
There is basically only one suspect and it's pretty clear that it's them the entire time.
Most of Nancy's time is spent attending football games and costume parties rather than any real mystery-solving.
The denouement is solved with a conversation rather than Nancy being kidnapped or any sort of real excitement.
There is even a Scooby Doo-like "I'd have gotten away with it too if it wasn't for you meddling Nancy"-type utterance.
I did like how they chose to ultimately handle the culprit's fate though, as that usually doesn't happen in any Nancy Drew mystery I've read.
I enjoyed this book because it always left me in suspense. It was a book I did not want to put down. *SPOILER ALERT* Nancy found Edgar Nixon and Nancy Smith drew. At the airport, she was able to get Edgar arrested and be able to question him. She also was able to prevent them from getting married.
Gave it a good 89 pages of boredom. I usually like ND books but this one fell flat and dragged. Plus where was the mystery? Lol! Overall, I stopped before I fell asleep.
Don’t you just love the way everything falls into place in a Nancy Drew mystery.
Nancy just always happens to be in the right place at the right time.
What was in the letter addressed to her?
By tracing the letter using the mailman's memory of the sender address, Nancy discovers she is not the only Nancy Drew in the world, and that one Nancy Drew is about to inherit a lot of money.
So when Nancy tries to track down the other Nancy Drew, things get dangerous.
Fast forward, Nancy learns that the letter was for Nancy Smith-Drew and it was about a small inheritance; Nancy and her friends Bess and George set about finding this other Nancy Drew and solving the the mystery of who stole the mailbag.
Nancy and the girls head off to watch Ned Nickerson win the football game for Emerson College, while George and Bess are also dating boys from the same college, but they are only on the reserve string.
So I guess I have a mystery to solve also...what state does Nancy live in?
Nancy sets out to find the other Nancy Drew and to locate the person who took the mailbag so that she can restore the tarnished reputation of her mailman.
Personally, I found this book to be very boring.
Nancy solves the mystery in the end, but it is not through brilliant detective work, it is because she attends a football game at Emerson University.
I know that chance encounters always play a big part in solving the case in Nancy Drew and Hardy Boys mysteries, but this was just pure dumb luck and nothing else.
Book Details: Title Nancy's Mysterious Letter (Nancy Drew, #8)Author Carolyn KeeneReviewed By Purplycookie
Une bonne enquête d'Alice!Toujours aussi simple mais bien écrit, c'est un livre agréable à lire.
L'enquête progresse vite et c'est un vrai plaisir d'avancer sa lecture.Lorsqu'à quelques jours de la retraite, son vieil ami le facteur perd sa sacoche, justement sur le perron de notre détective, Alice se lance dans l'enquête.
Et ce dernier semble vouloir entrer en possession de l'héritage de Fred, qui naïvement y consent.
En parallèle, Alice reçoit d'un notaire une lettre qui ne lui est pas destinée.
Une certaine Alice Smith Roy doit elle aussi toucher un héritage et Alice décoide de la retrouver pour l'informer.
This has got to be one of the more convoluted Nancy Drew books.
Awash in overwhelming coincidence, Nancy tracks down another Nancy Drew, who a) has inherited a great deal of money b) is being pursued by the con artist brother of Nancy's mailman who discovered that Nancy2 had gotten the money when he stole mail from his brother in order to get to the Drews' mail because one of Mr. Drew's clients was also a victim of one of the bad guy's cons 3) Ned Nickerson's acting coach 4) The former governess of a student who just happens to attend also attend Emerson.
In this book Nancy deals with a few mysteries, stolen mail, a fraudulent dating service, and a possible twin of hers. Nancy overcomes all of it, plus a few instances of danger to solve all as all three mysteries intertwine in the end. The reader also finds out that Ned is quite good at football being the star quarterback, punter, and field goal kicker... he also wins the important game for Emerson against State U. It also includes some Shakespeare. All in all a pretty good mystery, and it did what it was intended to, entertained me for a week.
I really do like these Nancy Drew books! Aside from being quick reads, they are just fun. There are no deep philosophical plots, of course, but there is a young woman who sees the clear line between right and wrong and fights to help those in need...usually perfect strangers...or in this case, the mailman. This one ended a bit abruptly for my taste...I would have preferred a bit more resolution and it seems as though some co-conspirators may have gotten away...but still another mystery solved!
Mischief, Mix up and Mayhem are just a few words to describe Nancy Drew and her crazy adventures. Reading this series along with the Hardy Boys makes for a fun afternoon of sitting around reading mysteries. This book was quite interesting with mistaken identities,chaos, mail theft and even a little Shakespeare. If you like mysteries and hyjinks that are fun,suspenseful, and are relatable then this book and even this series is for you.
For the most part, it was very fun reading about Nancy looking for a girl who shares her name who's an heiress to a great fortune and is being targeted by an opportunistic swindler who just happened to be the half-brother of a very kind and frail postman. Such an adventure. That one woman was quite annoying indeed, thank you very much.
