https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/805939.Elizabeth_the_Great
I'm glad that of the shelves and shelves of books about England's first Queen Elizabeth I happened upon this one.
It's a condensed read -- more than sixty years in just over 300 pages -- that prioritizes history as it must have been perceived by Elizabeth rather than how later historians have contextualized her within it.
The interplay between the members of the Tudor family, the various royal houses of Europe, and, particularly, the dramatic personae of Elizabeth's court is absolutely mesmerizing.
Like Elizabeth, who in her later years was mistaken for senile by the overly confident blokes who peopled her court, this book has genius despite its age.
Jenkins does a very nice job of detailing Elizabeth's life.
Very readable and an excellent introduction to her legacy.All of those who surround her are also part of the narrative, creating a fuller picture.
Mary the Queen of Scots plays a major role in Elizabeth's decision-making and it is fascinating to see how she was able to tamp down constant threats and keep control of her kingdom.
The Council and her advisors spend much effort trying to arrange a marriage for Elizabeth with no success.
This interplay and Elizabeth's savvy at handling the situation is a model for political maneuvering; she certainly was skilled in diplomacy and strategy.
A very interesting and thorough look at Queen Elizabeth I and her life. I loved the details that Jenkins included.
This was an awesome read! Not only did it give the feel of a fictional piece of work but it was essentially like reading a soap opera of the past. I would recommend this to people who want to become educated about the history of the world but who are just bored to tears when reading a more educational biography.
A good overview of the life and reign of Elizabeth I of England with an emphasis on her private life.
The politics of the reign (a fascinating but complex topic) take a backseat in this biography, which is an excellent starting point of someone new to Elizabeth I.
I have to stop myself from comparing this short biography with others which delve into particular aspects of Elizabeth's reign with more complexity and depth, as those works also lack the conciseness of this one.
This is a great book for someone who wanted to read a quick, factual, and readable biography of Elizabeth I.
Elizabeth Jenkins’ book is a wonderful tour through the fragments of primary and secondary historical artifacts that are left to us from the Elizabethan Age. Having emerged from the chaos of the Middle Ages and the torment of the fourteenth century, England and Europe in the sixteenth evolve toward a world that is recognizably similar to our world.In her youth Elizabeth survived several nearly fatal dynastic situations to wear the crown of England, coming to the throne at a time when the finances of England had been damaged by the excesses of her father and by years of warfare.
Late in life, “When Henri IV sent over as his ambassador the future Duc de Sully, Elizabeth said that she would give him her view of the European situation with reference to the House of Austria.
The author speculates that Elizabeth's determination to remain 'the Virgin Queen" stemmed from her childhood memories of the losses of Henry VIII's wives and marraiges (and of course, among them, the loss of her own mother, Anne Boleyn.)Her love of the people of England is legendary.
However, the author does not gloss over Elizabeth's faults or weaknesses and relays several incidents that help the reader put together a complete portrait of this remarkable and exceptional sovereign.I am now so enamored of this time period that I am determined to read next, Antonia Fraser's "Mary Queen of Scots".
Although Mary spoiled Elizabeth with gifts and clothing she also kept her away when she was ruler of England.
Elizabeth while being the king's second born child was given the last opportunity to lead England.
While being Queen there were those who questioned her authority to lead mainly Queen Mary of Scots for Mary truly believed that she was the true queen, and the loyal English catholics did not see Elizabeth as queen and were instructed by the Pope not to see her as queen.
Queen Elizabeth is known as the virgin queen vowing never to marry at a young age.
Although this is considered a classic and definitive book on Elizabeth I, I have to say it was boring as all get out.
It's soporific effects led to several nights of really good sleep.But even with the sleep-inducing effects, Elizabeth the Great is filled with facts and tidbits about the Tudor reign.
I also need to remark that Ms. Jenkins is quite a fan girl of Elizabeth I.
All in all, it is a worthwhile book if the reader is interested in the Tudors or England under the rule of Elizabeth I.
Jenkins makes a good argument that Elizabeth's determination to remain unmarried stemmed not just from the abuse she suffered in her teens from her stepmother, Catherine Parr, and Parr's new husband Seymour, but also from the childhood echoes of her own mother's execution - an event she could barely remember, but which was echoed in the beheading of another stepmother when she was eight.
join the dots.[return][return]Armed with this assumption, Jenkins has Elizabeth enjoying the thrills of the romantic chase but consciously or subconsciously determined never to reach the point that her male suitors desired to reach - she almost got caught out by the Duc d'Alen
Excellent bio of Elizabeth I.
Published over 60 years ago, I'm sure this is not definitive, but it is great storytelling and well worth reading.
I'm glad I got some background in the basic history before tackling this because it is definitely a very selective take.
Jenkins is strongly focused on interpersonal relationships within Elizabeth's court and other circles of power, which it turns out are pretty fascinating.
Jenkins has a great feel for the strange and highly mannered social interactions of the time; 16th-century Europe comes across as a world nearly as alien as that of Frank Herbert's "Dune" novels.
While many important events are glossed over or barely mentioned in this book (it's not a book on the history of England, after all), Jenkins makes an excellent study of a fascinating and complex woman.
Jenkins insightfully theorizes that Queen Elizabeth never intended to marry and used the planning of marriage as a negotiating and diplomacy tool to attain the treaties and alliances she wanted, then abandoned each suitor once she got what she wanted.
Manipulative, perhaps, but given her experiences before she became Queen it's understandable.
I wonder how much of this was used as research for the HBO miniseries Elizabeth I?

I think this is a very complete history of Elizabeth, but it is biased towards her.
I wouldn't recommend this book if you aren't interested in history, I believe this is a fascinating period, and an inspiring woman, but not everyone will enjoy it.
Also there are a lot of people, events, places, and changing relationships, due to the many changing factors it can be very hard to follow, but that is due to the nature of the period, not the writer's style or talent.
This might be one of my favourite books about Queen Elizabeth the First.

While it was a slightly dry narrative at times, the detail and clarity of writing made the historic events accessible and understandable. The reader gets a sense of just how remarkable Elizabeth was, as well as how flawed. One of the most touching take-aways from the book is an understanding of how her council and ministers worked together with her and managed around each others' quirks and habits. This is an excellent companion to the more recent work by David Starkey, detailing the few years in her early life.
Elizabeth Jenkins approaches an understanding of Elizabeth from a psychological perspective. Death played a big part in her earlier years. Her mother was executed, as was her step-mother Katherine Howard of whom she was fond. Her brother died young as did his mother Jane Seymour in child-birth. Jenkins believes that avoiding anything that would hasten her death in any way. This was one of the psychological influence, another was violence. An interesting perspective
I always have a hard time keeping who's who straight and a few pages in to this one I can tell I'm gonna have to reread a lot, but I'm determined. I finished! I'm so glad to have gotten that all straightened out. I watched two seperate movies on this chick and they contradicted each other. Well, suprise suprise they were both inaccurate. I guess that's why they were movies and not biographies. Anyway, I feel smarter now and can move on.
Elizath the Great is a monarch every one who wants to understand England must read. Her reign was a watershed in British history and so many things are what they arer because she ruled England. Hers was something of a golden age for the kingdom, defeating the spanish Armada and establishing England as a sea power, prevailing over the powerful Catholic lobby, and so many other legacies that still run unto this day. I enjoyed the book, mu first by Jenkins.
This book was jam packed with history. I enjoyed learning more about Elizabeth the Great, but I found it hard to get through each chapter. Many were lengthy discussion on who she should marry. She was a very intelligent woman. It was interesting to learn that her early objectives included paying off England's debts and trying to keep England free from conflict and civil war (to name a few).
My responseWhen I read about Queen Elizabeth I who transformed England into a relatively tolerant power, I can see that it was providential that of all the European powers, the English ended up the principal colonizers of North America. Clearly not a benevolent monarch, she was one of the best ever to live on this earth. Her influence is comparable to that of Augustus Caesar.
A dated but well written and researched biography. I particularly appreciated the compassionate explanation of her refusal to marry and other issues due to childhood trauma. It was a bit difficult to remember all the earls and dukes and lords since it's not part of my daily life, but maybe i'm just overloaded because i just read Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies.
A bit dated (it was written in the 1950's) as to the writing style. Interesting in that the author spent little time on the details of the political situations and more on the anecdotes that reveal the person of Elizabeth I, the "why" she did things, not just "what" she did.
I hardly feel qualified to rate this book because it's been so long -- more than 30 years, I think -- since I read it. But I'll always be fond of it because it was the book, discovered during a boring visit to my grandparents' when I was in junior high, that ignited my lifelong Tudor obsession.
I have to admit that I have not finished this book. It's quite dry and historical. But if you want an historically acurate book about Queen Elizabeth, I recommend this one. It goes into great detail about her life.
Interesting look at Elizabeth the Great. I really didn't know much about her and that era of history. Even though it's a history book and not a novel, it makes her and everything that happened to her seem very real.
Elizabeth Jenkins does an excellent job of making a historical biography very readable.
Nothing new here, just a straigtforward but highly readable account of the major incidents of the life of Elizabeth I.
A readable biography, with a good balance between the personal and political lives of the great Queen.
EXCELLENT biography of one of England's most amazing rulers.
