https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31507.Love_s_Enduring_Promise
:D There was a lot more going on this book...at least it felt like it lol With all the weddings and babies being born :P But it did cover about ten years though so it is understandable I guess haha xDI don't know what is so special to me about these books...they are just so nice and relaxing to read :) You don't have to think too hard when you read these, or worry about missing anything important if you didn't read carefully enough...idk I am terrible at trying to express what I want to say into words xD Can anyone else relate?
lol I know not everyone likes these type of books, but for me, it's nice sometimes to read a book that doesn't require a lot of brainpower, one you can just sit and relax with while drinking a nice cup of hot tea ya know?
While I did enjoy number two in this series I did find myself wishing that instead of everybody growing up and out so quickly that the pace could have been more day to day.
I wanted to linger more over coffee at the table with a friend while the children were laughing and picking strawberries.
I wanted a quilting bee in town where friends were gathered to discuss hearth and home and a little gossip and giggles.
Everything was just too quick for me and I missed the slow and steady pace which I preferred.

This is the second book in this series and probably the last one I will read.
I kept waiting for some sort of prairie-disaster to happen, like a fire, snow storm, or bear mauling, but no such luck.
I also found this book to be considerably more religious than the first.
It sort of crossed the line for the amount of scripture reference that I'm willing to put up with when I read a fiction novel.
That said, I really did enjoy the book.
It's very sweet, sort of a religious Little House on the Prairie.
I didn't find this one to be quite as romantic as the first book of the Love Comes Softly series, probably because it doesn't focus in on the building of one couple's relationship, but I suppose there was enough romance present in the multiple courtships and marriages among secondary characters and the next generation of the Davis family to loosely characterize the story as a historical romance.Once again, I loved reading about life on the frontier, the sense of warmth and love that comes from family, friends, and community, and how they all share in the joy and sorrow, laughter and tears that life can bring.
Although Marty sympathises with the young lovers, Ma repeatedly says it's unacceptable and no good can come of children that are "not white or brown." She furthermore goes on to say she will pray God breaks the lovers apart!
Even Marty is concerned the couple will be hurt and hopes they will break it off.
As an author, if you are going to tackle an issue like racism, do it right!
You can't just pop it into the middle of a book, gloss it over, and worst of all make it look like it was no big deal and the characters were probably justified in their sentiments to begin with.
I was so deeply sad when I read this book because it moved way too fast, and did not give me the details I desperately craved after finishing Love Comes Softly.
I still loved the story.
It was a simple yet very fulfilling read, but I was hoping to get more details of those early years between Clark and Marty.
I felt like Marty became seasoned and wise (like Ma Graham) over night,and I missed hearing about her struggles and learning processes.
Still, this book left me with a warm heart, and a greater appreciation for what people went through in those times gone by.
The second book in the Love Comes Softly series. After finishing the first novel I found myself aching for more. I immediately picked up this book with my hot chocolate and dug in. Started at 9:30am and finished at 2pm. Great read. Having watched the movie series I was sad to find the book completely different, but was glad to learn more about this wonderful family and watch them grow. I can't wait to start the third, but needed to shower and check email...off I go.
Love's Enduring Promise I actually read a while (like weeks) ago, but I've been super busy (was at my grandparents, final editing a book, etc)SO anyways, just like Love Comes Softly, I loved this book!
I felt like this one was maybe a little more plot-driven than the last one, which I liked.
The romance aspect was good too, although a little 'fake' at times.Content: few kisses/hugs between a married couple, mentions of birth/pregnancy, the main character is pregnant at one point, but very very non-detailedNote: because I don't know the exact date I read this, just in May, I'm not going to put a day.
Review to come...
I am disappointed in this book. Towards the middle, Marty was annoying and it became boring. I have started book 3 already. I'm enjoying it much more.
Mrs. Larson died and Marty was determined to change the mind of the two girls, Nandry and Clae's, father, Jedd, about letting them attend school now that a teacher had finally been found.
He dropped them off the next day and headed west.Marty went to town to get groceries and things the girls needed to start school on the day the wagon train was pulling out.
Clae told Missie that Willie gave her such a hard time because he liked her.
Missie had finished her schooling and had replaced Clae as the teacher in town.
Missie and Willie LaHaye were married in the new house.
Also, I though Oke resolved the issue in a poor way (SPOILER) by letting her get sent back to the reserve- the girl's grandfather had been resilient about going to the reserve and it seems like no one else had seen the couple together so it doesn't seem likely that she would actually get sent back to me.
I felt like Oke had an opportunity to really get into this serious issue but she chickened out at the end.
Also, I felt like the first 3/4 of the book were at a good pace and the last quarter was rushed through.
***Spoiler Alert*** (It was suggested I do that although I don't believe I'm giving anything way but just to be safe...)Other than the ending, this book is nothing like the movie of the same title.
Not sure why Hallmark/Michael Landon Jr. deviated so far from the original story but they did.
Missie, the two-year-old daughter of Clark's in the first book, starts off at age 5 in this book and and is 18, getting married, by the end.
Again, lots of ups and downs - they end up taking care of a couple of young sisters due to a promise Marty made to their mother before she died.
It's a sweet story.
I LOVED the story-very sweet.
I also loved the characters; however, I thought the story could have used more development.
That said, I still really enjoyed the goodness of the characters.
They are pure, honest, humble, hard working people who are easy to look to as examples.
I recently read an article arguing that people who read literature have more empathy and are nicer people.
This is one of those series that makes you a nicer person.
You just want to be more like Marty and Clark--just good people who look out for the needs of others before themselves.
I will finish reading the rest of the series.
Wonderful ...
This one spans quite a few years, so moves very quickly ...
but the stories of each time really help you know the family as it grows, along with all the neighbors.
More importantly, it shares a life-style that would, in many ways, really be wonderful.
once again a wonderful story, continuing the family life of Clark and Marty and their children.
The good times, and the hardships, the tragedies, and the triumphs ...
all the parts that make life truly wonderful.
I love these stories.
Very simply, easy reading, but delightful messages of faith and family.
Clark and Marty continue to add to their family by taking in the two Larson girls as well as their own Ellie and Luke.
In this story, the children are growing up and beginning to make their own lives as Clark and Marty help to build up their community by adding a school and church, as well as a teacher and preacher.
Clark builds a large new house, Clae Larson goes to normal school to become a teacher, Missie grows up and follows in Clae's path to normal school, and the young people begin to pair up and marry.
I didn't think I could read another book in this series after the first one because I cannot stand the writing style.
Even though I did like the book but haven't decided yet if I'm going to continue reading them or not.
Part of me wishes that I had never watched the movies based on this series, because I love them so much and they are very different from the books.
"Loves Long Journey" is my favorite and for the first time ever I'm afraid that the book is actually going to disappoint me.
Book two to the series. I watched some of the movies an thought it would be fun to read the books. Unfortunately I think it would have been much more interesting to read the books before I saw the movies.
a lovely continuation to Clark and Marty's family! this one had some very funny scenes, but also some sad and touching ones too. Enduring Promise is quite unlike the movie adaption, so that was interesting. I wonder what will Missie and Willie's story be like in 'Love's Long Journey'. . .
The plot was fine. But I hated the book because of the uneducated english they spoke. Example "if him be thinkin it be wise me thinkin i aint have no say." GRRRRRRRRRRRRRR
It moved a bit too fast, and the dialogue was annoying; other than that, I enjoyed it.
Loved it. <3
After Reading this series I felt I knew the characters intimately and they were my friends.
LOVE LOVE LOVE this whole series! I can't say much else about it. I have read and re-read them over and over since I was 13! Definitely worth the read!
This is one of my favorite books out if this series! Amazing!
You have been warned.I’ve always loved the hallmark movies based on these books, and finally got around to start reading them.
But when I read the reviews for this book, I was hesitant about whether I wanted to continue or not.
For me though, I didn’t feel that sense of it being rushed until I got to about 80% through.Examples?
But Marty is the main character, and I don’t feel like that should’ve been grazed over so carelessly.Another would be when Clae meets the new parson.
So much more!In my opinion, I feel like the last 20% of the book should’ve been stretched out.
The first book in this series took place over one or two years and was paced very well.
It was difficult to keep track of how old the characters were at any given time and I found it difficult to get back into the book from one day to the next because I couldn't remember how many years had passed since I read the previous day.Overall, if this book had been better paced I would have given it a 5 star rating.
It's an endearing story and deserves to be read even with all of the confusion of the passing of time.
In fact, this book seems to ramble through one situation after another just as peoples' real lives do.
Normal everyday people do not have lives with a plot line having a beginning, middle and end or a specific quest to be completed.
In this book, we follow the lives of people important to Marty as they are born, die, marry, have children and participate in their community.Marty is now a woman with a growing family.
She and Clark are important people in their community.
Sometimes that means giving advice.
This book follows the maturation of one generation in the Davis' lives.Clark is still a bit of an unrealistic paragon.
In this book, Arnie, Ellie, & Luke are all born; Nandry & Clae Larson come to live there; Missie starts school and eventually becomes the school teacher; Nandry and Clae both marry - Clae marries the pastor; the town grows to include a school and church; Missie grows up to be courted and marries "thet Willie LaHaye".
I was a little worried after reading this book for the first time, because I have one or two of my own "Willie LaHayes" from my childhood and I can't imagine marrying one of them.
