https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6437061-the-hundred-thousand-kingdoms
She's right that so many fantasy books are about restoring order to a kingdom, returning a rightful heir to the throne, or getting back to the good old days by defeating some dark power that threatens to unbalance society.
Instead, she writes science fiction which challenges those in power, threatens the ordered society, and questions whether the good old days ever existed.
But Yeine gains some powerful if unstable allies: the Enefadah, gods who were enslaved by the ruling family after those deities lost a war against the Lord of Light, the patron god of Sky.You know me.
Very much enjoyed it. I have a great love of fantasy that does something a little different, and this book is a little different in a whole lot of ways.Good book. Recommended.
3.5I dont even know guys
I'm always apprehensive when I read a book everyone loved and can't get worked up about it.
It wasn't.You've read this before.You're too harsh.This writing style- **********Makes no narrative sense.
The choppy writing style felt weird to me- not because I didn't understand the transitions in time, but because there was no need for it.
Seriously, Australian authors kick ass, every time.
It was interesting enough to have me reading till the end, but I know what good fantasy reads like, and to me, this book comes a poor second to the vibrant writing of authors like Trudi Canavan and Jennifer Fallon and even Melina Marchetta.
Just got the ARCs. Reading for typos and errors, and also for the thrill of READING MY BOOK YAY WHOA.
Well, I really loved this book.
Not since I've read Jaqueline Carey's Kushiel series have I been as enamored, in fact they are very evocative of each other, these series.I had no expectations of this book, in fact I've had an ARC copy by my bed for like a year and a half, and for some reason couldn't get myself to pick it up.
Everyone can enjoy this book, the romantic arc is subtle and not cliched-ly prominent.But basically, this is a lovely fantasy with a strong female protagonist.
I really felt like it was smart and avoided cliches.
Lastly, at times Jemisin's language impressed me: "This was the sort of thing that made people hate the Arameri--truly hate them, not just resent their power or their willingness to use it.
It mocked the suffering of their victims."Where Jemisin failed to turn the ingredients into deliciousness: First, it felt 'young adult' in tone; though the narrator was supposed to be 19 and heir/ruler to her tribes' lands, she acts and responds in surprisingly naive and young ways at times.
Two for including an eye-rolling sex scene, the bad-boy lover, and language use the rest of the time.
and yet there is an almost underpopulated feeling to it - we get to know only a handful of Sky's denizens and only a handful of gods are introduced.
many times when i've read about gods (similar to reading about aliens in scifi), i feel these are actually humans with unusual abilities - they talk and act and respond like humans.
not so with Sieh, nor with the other gods.
not many stereotypically human motivations appear when the actions of the various gods are described.overall it felt dreamy and arty and, somehow, minor note...
I've been fortunate to read a number of really fantastic novels recently, and this one stands tall and proud among them, like a worldtree within a shining forest of worlds.The opening of the novel was unfortunately the weakest part for me, but I was able to feel our heroine's hopeless plight pretty much right away, enjoying her progression of defiance to acceptance as it all became so clear that her life was forfeit no matter what happened.
After finishing the novel, I can't quite see where else it might go except far away from the characters I've just enjoyed, but I've got the entire omnibus sitting right here.
The palace intrigues, also, begin with a promise of complex conflicts, but end up quite shallow, and a lot of the said conflicts are resolved via deus ex machina (literally) than through the strength of the nineteen-year-old protagonist.Not all of these issues are serious flaws (and I suppose things like world-building might occur in later volumes of this trilogy), so I might have enjoyed the story for what it is had the characters been more fully-realized.
As I look at some of my all time favorite fantasy stories, most from very recently, they include: The First Law Trilogy by Joe Abercrombie (The Blade Itself, etc.), The Gentlemen Bastards series by Scott Lynch (The Lies of Locke Lamora, etc.) The Hari Michelson/Over World series by Matthew Stover (Heroes Die, etc.), A Song of Ice and Fire by George R.R. Martin (A Game of Thrones, etc.), The Fionavar Tapestry by Guy Gavriel Kay, American Gods by Neil Gaiman, and The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss, and my newest addition, the Troy series by David Gemmell (Troy: Lord of the Silver Bow, etc.).
I am writing this thinking that should The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms happened to be my first encounter with Jemisin's writing, it would have taken a long time to approach her again (if at all).
When she comes to the seat of power called Sky, she discovers not only the truth behind her mother's murder but also the fact that she is a pawn in a more sinister game between the people and the gods.
The plot shows Jemisin "obsession themes", themes that she mastered in Broken Earth but only started playing within the Inheritance series.
Buy this book if you love the flights of imagination only possible in fantasy.
Buy it if you love stories of betrayal, murder, hard truths, and being in way over your head.The book is written in the first person.
There are scattered, apparent digressions: snippets of history, backstory.
Those who love additional complexity may wish the cast were larger and the book longer.
The world is fascinating, but we spend most of this book inside the central palace of Sky. The visuals are clear and cool.[Full disclosure: I have met Ms. Jemisin once, and she is published by the same company I am.
While the world in this series is (so far/ for me) not as impressive as the one created in The Fifth Season, it is still highly original and a wonderful basis for the type of stories she excells in.Set in a world where after a war between the gods some of those gods are enslaved by humans and one is revered, the main character, Yeine, is thrust into a court full of intrigue and subtlety and hatred when her estranged grandfather names her his potential heir.
First read in 2010 Last read in 2016All images are drawn by me, for higher resolution visit gerynh.tumblr.comGODS! Yep, this series is about Gods.100 000 Kingdoms was my first "what-the-hell-there-are-no-dragons-here-and-it's-not-Harry-Potter" type of book. It was the first novel that introduced me to fictional politics and quiet mysterious dudes with power over darkness... that turned out to be one of my many many weaknesses...     ... damn you sexy shadow-wielding-men!There are a few reasons w
Nahadoth, the God of darkness) chase you around a floating castle, isn't an ideal first day for anyone, but Yeine soon manages to establish alliances with the majority of the Gods inhabiting the place, promising them freedom in exchange for their aid to become the next successor to the crown.~~~~~~~~~PLOT (The Gods' story)~~~~~~~~~~In this world of a hundred thousand kingdoms there is peace (most of the time).
~~~~The Final Verdict~~~~A Hundred Thousand Kingdoms is a unique, thought-provoking and imaginative book with intriguing politics, complex characters and sexy shadow-wielding-dudes ahem...amazing world-building.
Original impression (April 2017): 2 stars - Meh...I'm burned out on spending a lot of time on stuff I don't want to spend time on.Revised impression (July 2017): 3 solid stars. It turns out this book wasn't finished with me yet. I thought I had put it behind me, but it kept creeping back to my mind and I couldn't help but want to see where it would go....All in all, I was pretty impressed by the end, and I might even continue the trilogy....if it calls to me again..
I kept saying that I'd put the book down, only for the end of a chapter to beg a bit more reading.
Then, as I was finishing up with my last couple books, I decided to put my intended reading list on hold and test the waters with Jemisin's trilogy.
Of course, there's a good bit of slavery going on with the general population in Sky, the city built for royals by their enslaved gods.Jemisin does something really great here: she makes a story about the myriad horrors of slavery using a really awesome fantasy narrative.
For the record, my copy of N.K. Jemisin's The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms came courtesy of a contest conducted by the writer Tricia Sullivan, whose novel, Maul, I read a few years back and which which has since stayed with me far more strongly than most. I wish I could say the same about The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms. Stormwinds over a cardboard world: Nebula-nominated first novel is epic failure I opened N.K. Jemisin's (now Nebula Award nominated) first novel, The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms, havi
I opened N.K. Jemisin's (now Nebula Award nominated) first novel, The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms, having occasionally read the author's blog and commentary elsewhere on the internet, and was well-aware the book had been getting a lot of positive attention since it was published last year.
“We can never be gods, after all - but we can become something less than human with frightening ease.” Such a pleasant, pleasant surprise. I loved this so much.There may be some minor spoilers in this, so, go ahead & read at your own volition. No big, spoily spoilers, though! Just explaining things a little.I'm not sure where to begin. Should I may begin by how much well-written this was? N. K. Jemisin is one hell of an author, that is most certain. It was detailed without being tiring, it
Her cousins are dangerous & will stop at nothing to destroy - kill - her.In her first day at the palace she meets the Gods.
Scimina, Yeine's cousin, unleashes Nahadoth, one of the Three & the firs to be created for he is the very embodiment of darkness & chaos, & another God, Sieh saves her.
From the Gods, I must say I loved Nahadoth the most.
He always wanted to hug & cuddle & he developed the most beautiful friendship with Yeine.The ending was satisfying & I can't wait to get into the second book & read more of this amazing, broken world & the characters.
Now, the summary of book one didn’t sound as intriguing to me at all, but I figured I would maybe not be able to enjoy the second instalment in its entirety if I didn’t read it.
It makes it sound pretty average in the field of epic fantasy:Parent dies under mysterious circumstances?
Check.And, most importantly, the summary includes the words political intrigue or power struggles?
Check.But The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms is anything but average.
So yes, I think you can kind of get an idea of what happens in the end, but for me those passages were a little too cryptic to figure out.
I haven't read fantasy with such a sense of wonder in ages.The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms is simply a delight to read.
Everything from the characters to the setting and magic is beautiful.
In some places, it's honestly like reading poetry.Forget the rules-based magic we've come to love from Sanderson and Weeks, and dive into a story of gods and betrayal with a deep current of mysticism throughout.(Also, how fantastic to see a non-male, non-white protagonist shine).It's one of those book you know you'll be re-reading and cherishing for years to come.
I highly recommend it as an essential for any fantasy aficionado's collection.
My Ratings This was my first read from N. K. Jemisin and I can safely say this about her writing style: My head is still fried from this mind blow of a read. The characters, storyline and world building is fantastic. I can't think, write or speak properly at present. I will most certainly have to come back at a later period and ramble about this book. For now:
DNF @ 155 pagesOne of the most boring fantasy books ever that focuses almost entirely on politics.RTC
N.K. Jemisin approaches empire in her epic fantasy debut, The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms. Laura Resnick ( In Legend Born ) conceived of conquered Silerians, but few authors discuss the national, political and local effects of imperialism, fearing bored readers and infodumps. Jemisin's subtlety indicates a social awareness, an appreciation for PR vs. reality, biased histories, and mistrust of power."Once, like High North, Senm was also a land of barbarians, and the Amn were simply the most success
reality, biased histories, and mistrust of power."Once, like High North, Senm was also a land of barbarians, and the Amn were simply the most successful of these.
Instead, first-person Kingdoms follows Yeine, reluctant heir to the throne, in palace Sky for two weeks, and sometimes romance overwhelms the rest, but so does cutthroat intrigue-- and I'm okay with that.Yeine leads Darre, an Amazonian kingdom.
No one's the white knight, even Yeine.I enjoyed Yeine's intrigues and the mystery of Sky's history, Jemisin's characterizations, Kingdoms' mythos, but I wasn't convinced of Yeine's romance with a god.
It's only obvious in Darre, but Jemisin's male characters are all passive.) He's cool.
Now that I’ve gotten around to reading this, I did not enjoy it, but that had less to do with the fact that the protagonist hooks up with a dark god than that the story just isn’t very interesting.Yeine is a young woman who travels to a distant land and gets caught up in court politics over her head – standard fantasy stuff.
In her actions she is astoundingly passive, a Generic Female Protagonist used as a pawn by everyone around her, who spends most of the book waiting for events others have set in motion.
I was in that stage for quite a while after reading this weird, sensual, dark, joyful book.Our main character Yeine lives in a world where belief in the gods is not an option.
It's a world where one nation, the Arameri, have all the power because 2,000 years before when the God's War sundered their world, they landed on the winning side.
Itempas gave them the defeated gods in human form, imprisoning them at the will of the Arameri.
I am definitely a fan of this author now (especially after reading the second book in the series, which was my favorite).
The re-reading sucks me right back into the amazing world of The Hundred Thousand Kingdoms!!! I love this trilogy so much.
So many fantasy novels contain supposedly inhuman characters (immortal or immensely long lived dragons, elves, gods) who, in fact, have no sense of inhumanity at all.
N.K. Jemisin is the first author who has ever managed to show me a God who was both moral and amoral, human and Godly, terrifying and pitiable, vulnerable and invulnerable.
What an achievement!If you are looking for typical epic fantasy, complete with heroic heroes, predictable quests, evil overlords and black and white morality, do not read THE HUNDRED THOUSAND KINGDOMS.
There were some things about the character that I felt didn't mesh quite right and her mood swings rivaled the worst YA novel.
She talks about her training that helps her not betray her emotions and thoughts on her face but then she spends a lot of time arguing and yelling and thirsting for revenge.
Also, the story seemed to be treading water occasionally.I did listen to the audio and initially I thought that there was a poor narrator/story match up, but I actually think that she may have highlighted some of the flawed areas rather than creating them.
Just not connecting with it (again, second try). This novel seems to lack something that The Fifth Season has in abundance. Originality? Agency? Unpredictability?
