https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154128.Glimpses_of_World_History
Glimpses of World History, Jawaharlal Nehru Glimpses of World History, a book published by Jawaharlal Nehru in 1942, is a panoramic sweep of the history of humankind.
It is a collection of 196 letters on world history written from various prisons in British India between 1930–1933.
It was incredible to know anyway, that this around 1000 page beast is simply a collection of letters written by Jawaharlal Nehru to his daughter Indira, within a span of three years while he was in.
In some way, that brought a sense of awe and admiration before even reading the first page.Now about the book.
This is a very very impressive book and deserves to be read and appreciated.4.0 stars.
The essays bring out Nehru's interest and understanding of human history, culture, world affairs and social movements.
In his words, "to compare Soviet Russia with Western Europe today is to compare a youth, carrying a heavy burden but full of life and vigor, with an aged person with little hope or energy left, and going forward not without pride, but inevitably, to the end of his present state." He begins to equate capitalism with wastage, cutthroat competition, economic imperialism, the concentration of wealth in a few hands, long hours and squalid working conditions and begins to lean towards a democratic socialist form of governing.
کتاب من دوره سه جلدی است با ترجمه اقای محمود تفضلیچاپ هشتم 1366امیر کبیرخیلی وقت پیش این کتابو خوندم. تو اون سن و سال کم خوندن یه دوره سه جلدی تاریخ کار ساده ای نبود. همین نشون میده که این کتاب چقدر ساده و روان و جذاب نوشته شده
پایان جلد اول;تابستان 95اولین کتاب تاریخیه که می خونم،اونم تاریخ به این گستردگی:جهان.تاحدود زیادی طبق اسم کتاب،صرفا "نگاهی" به تاریخ داشته و خیلی وارد جزییات نشده.ولی در رابطه با هند که وطن نویسنده است بیشتر پرداخته و حتی تحلیل هم شده که بعضی وقت ها خسته کننده می شد.چون مخاطب نامه ها،دختر نوجوان نویسنده است،خود نویسنده تلاش کرده که خیلی وارد اسم ها و جزییات نشه و نثر رواییش هم ساده و روان باشه.در کل خوب بود،راضی بودم:)تا اینجا 4 ستاره
يستحق اكثر من خمس نقاط .. وقد وضعت مراجعتي على  الرابط التاليوايضآ رابط لتحميل الكتاب الكترونيآ .. والافضل الحصول على الكتاب من المكتبة او محلات الكتب.أنصح بقرائته بالاخص لمن يبحث عن فكر وثقافة ولغة ادبية ودراسة موجزة في التاريخ
The letters were then published as a book in two volumes in the following two years.Having written to his daughter, who being of thirteen summers at the time, the writing is easy for a youngster to understand the stuff of the book.
And also not to forget that much of the contents of the book (letters) were written out of the author's good memory.To conclude, a really good book, for anyone who wants to know most of the world's history.
Although a huge book, it can be a fast-read, and easy to understand and follow.
Coming to recall my remote acquaintance many years ago with its fame in a Thai article on this outstanding “Glimpses of World History” written in captivity due to his struggle for freedom from British colonial rule, I have since longed to read it in the original.
Classified as ‘Non-fiction/History’ at the back cover, the book itself with its three-line addendum after its title: BEING FURTHER LETTERS TO HIS DAUGHTER, WRITTEN IN PRISON, AND CONTAINING A RAMBLING ACCOUNT OF HISTORY FOR YOUNG PEOPLE would be impressive to its readers from its 196 letters; therefore, it was definitely his labour of love to his daughter named Indira Gandhi by one of the most renowned prime ministers of India for seventeen years.
این کتاب نوشته جواهرلعل نهرو است که اسمش هم آدم را مسحور میکند.
کتاب، مجموعه نامههای پدری است که از زندان برای دخترش مینویسد و آنچه را بر زمین و زمان گذشته، باز میگوید.
البته واقعا «نگاهی به تاریخ جهان» است و آدم کمی ناراحت میشود از اینکه تندتند از روی تاریخ عبور میکند و تلختر اینکه کتاب، پیش از جنگ جهانی دوم به پایان میرسد.
از طرف دیگر، این خوبی را دارد که تاریخ تمدن غرب نیست و یک شرقی مصیبت کشیده از استعمار آن را نوشته است.
جالب است بدانید نویسنده این نامهها چند سال بعد خلاصی از زندان، نخستوزی
این کتاب نوشته جواهرلعل نهرو است که اسمش هم آدم را مسحور می‌کند.
البته واقعا «نگاهی به تاریخ جهان»‌ است و آدم کمی ناراحت می‌شود از اینکه تندتند از روی تاریخ عبور می‌کند و تلخ‌تر اینکه کتاب، پیش از جنگ جهانی دوم به پایان می‌رسد.
از طرف دیگر، این خوبی را دارد که تاریخ تمدن غرب نیست و یک شرقی مصیبت کشیده از استعمار آن را نوشته است.
جالب است بدانید نویسنده این نامه‌ها چند سال بعد خلاصی از زندان، نخست‌وزیر هند می‌شود.با خواندن کتاب ارادتم به این اراده‌ها بیشتر شد: اسکندر، چنگیز، ناپلئون و لنین
هر جند که دیدگاههای این کتاب سوسیالیستی است ولی فکر کنم که واقعاٌ میتوان بی طرفی را در خیلی از موارد در آن دید. حداقل برای من در آن سالهای نوجوانی که به دنبال جوابهای قانع کننده درباره ی تاریخ جهان بودم که خیلی پاسخ گو بود.بیش تر از خیلی از کتابهای بی سر و ته چپ نماهای آن دوران از آن توانستم تاریخ را بیاموزم
دوره ی سه جلدی این کتاب را زمانی که دبیرستان بودم به عنوان هدیه گرفتم و سیر تاریخی جذابی بود و به نظرم میتوان به عنوان کتاب مرجعی خوب در نظر گرفت.تنها مورد و اشکال در کنار ترجمه ی بسیار عالی این کتاب را میتوان ستایش بیش از حد از تاریخ و فرهنگ هند در نوشته های نهرو دانست که البته شاید در کشور هند و شخصیت خاص نهرو خیلی هم خوب باشد.
قدم لي هذا الكتاب "صورة مصغرة" لأحوال العالم بحاضره وماضيهفبدأه بالحديث عن التاريخ القديم والذي يحمل جذور الأفكار والصراعات مروراً بنهوض وسقوط الحضارات المختلفة وتتابعها..حتى وصل للقرون الثلاثة الأخيرة وبالتحديد, الثورة الفرنسية, النهضة الصناعية في اوروباوكلما اقتربت السنوات كثر الحديث وتشعّب, ويتعمق في تفصيل الأحداث المؤثرة على ملامح العالم بشكل عام وليست منطقة واحدة فقطتم تأليف هذه الرسائل منذ عام 1933 وحتى عام 1938 ...عاصر الكاتب صراع الهند ومحاولة استقلالها, واحداث الحرب العالمية الأولىتحدث عن علاقة الاقتصاد بالسياسة والاستعمار واستغلال الدين وفصل في احوال الدول في اوروبا واميركا وروسيا والصين واليابان والهند وتركيا ومصر مروراً بأحوال الدول العربية وسقوط الدولة العثمانية ومقارنة أحوال الثورة الهندية بأحوال الثوار في كل مكان الذين يطالبون بالتحرر من الاستعمار وعن وحشية الامبراطورية البريطانية وأساليبها في الاستعمار من تفريق بين الفرق وبث الفرقة والمشاكل والحروب الأهلية بين الشعوب في كل مكان ودعم التطرف الديني والتخلف والرجعية حتى يسهل استغلال البلاد دون مقاومةثم تكلم عن الحرب العالمية الأولى وماتلاها من أحداث وثورات وكيف نشأت النازية والفاشية وسيطرتها على اوروبا وكيف كانت بريطانيا تقدم لهما الدعم, وكان ذلك دليل على رجعيتها وتخلفها.
كما اضطر لتجاوز فترات معينة من التاريخ, واعترف بكونه اقتبس الآراء والوقائع من كتب ورسائل متفرقة تحتمل وجود أخطاء عديدة, و ود لو أن مؤرخاً ضليعاً قام بمراجعة رسائله قبل نشرها .يقول : لن يستطيع المرء أن يفهم تاريخ البلد الواحد إذا لم يعرف مايحدث في الأجزاء الأخرى من العالم .
Nehru does intend to take you through the beginning of time to the then current political scenario of the world.
He does it very briefly and ofcourse leaps from one time to another, one field to another, but by the end gives you a proper panoramic view of the history and politics of the world that matters.
It was easier for me to read and also comprehend this book for a simple reason that the frame of reference was Indian or Eastern culture, values or ideas.
Now, I have decided to read history books that go deeper than that of the brief analysis of Nehru's.

You can't read this book and not be in awe of the man!
I am not a fan of Nehruvian socialism as it is defined and understood today...and the book convinces me that Nehru would not like the fact that his followers are dogmatic about his economic views.
Above all, Nehru was a rebel ...
He was a man of his time ..and the greatest intellects of his time believed that government had to play a big role in development of emerging economies...If he was alive today, he would still be a rebel...
But watever it was thankful, that i got it and read it.
Nehru's brilliant intellect, deep humanity and lucid style make The Discovery of India essential reading for anyone interested in India, both its past and its present.
and more importantly the way it sees the history of the world..
But to find that the book is actually a combination of letters written by Nehru to his school going daughter in which he attempted to make his daughter pass through different ages of history seemed so sweet and awesome to me .
fell in love with the book straight away ...awesome read
قيمة هذا الكتاب ليس في مادته التاريخية بل في دروسه وعبره ومايمكن أن يستفاد منه لحاضرنا ومستقبلنا، وأ
Composed from memory, notes, love for his daughter, and fervent if beleaguered hope for humanity, Glimpses is an extraordinary collection.Of course, their author was an extraordinary man.
Here was a man whose deep appreciation for human history allowed him to create from memory and notes, an epic history of the world without recourse to a library -- who would, in the progress of the letters, continually connect them to one another in one fabric of historical reflections.
These connections are partially the result of him writing as teacher to his daughter, but as he admits the letters serve him as well, allowing him to reflect and inwardly digest the lessons of history.
http://iandbooks.wordpress.com/A friend suggested me to write about one of the historical book “Return of the Aryans” which I had read long time back but then I thought I should write about “Glimpses of World History” first because this is the first book that made history interesting for me rather than being a difficult subject with a series of names and dates.
''বিশব ইতিহাস পরসঙগ "হাজার পাতার বইটি ইতিহাস এর এক অপূরব দলীল ।কতো সভযতা কতো সমরাজযের উতথান পতন এর কাহিনিতে ভরপুর বইটি !পারশিক সমরাজয ; আলেকজেনডার এর বিশব জয় ; পবিতর রোমান সমরাজয , ইসলামের পৃথিবী জয় , চেঙগিস খার ধুমকেতুর মতো আবিরভাব ; অটোমযান সমরাজয , অষটরিক সমরাজয , জাপানী সমরাজয , মুঘল সামরাজয বরিটিশ সমরাজয গুলোর শুরু এর শেষ চোখের সামনে দিয়ে ঘটে গেলো এই এক মাসে !ইসসসস , যদি এই রকম একটা সামরাজযের অধিকারী আমরা থাকতাম .......!কতো শত বিপলব বিদরোহ , কতো রাজার উতথান পতন দেখলাম কয়েক দিনে ।দবিতীয় বিশব
''বিশ্ব ইতিহাস প্রসঙ্গ "হাজার পাতার বইটি ইতিহাস এর এক অপূর্ব দলীল ।কতো সভ্যতা কতো সম্রাজ্যের উত্থান 
One of the best book i have ever read. You will be astonished by the vastness and depth of Jawaharlal nehrus knowledge. He wrote these letters with historical references without any reference, from his notes and memory. The great values kept by Nehru can be seen throughout this book. This book created in me a interest to study about world history. History which used to be a boring subject in school with dates suddenly started becoming too interesting. A must read book for all.
Before this I have read only one book of world history and that was world civilization by E.M. Burns.
In that book there very little space was for the civilization of China, Japan or India and even of Russia.
Although many events may not remain imprinted on my mind for long time and this will compell me to read this book again and again and i think i will not get bored even after reading it twice or thrice just because of the beauty of its language.
It was my first venture in world history ( in the form of a book ) and I did pause, pondered, cross checked ( and also took notes ) only to discover that he pushed himself to be as dispassionate as possible..which he reaffirms in the final letter "You must not take what I have written in these letters as the final authority on any subject"..
You ever wondered Nehru is called an internationalist or an idealist or why he was called to broker peace between Korean nations or the chosen one by mahatma or the founding father of India or the beloved chahchaji, you will learn all the reasons behind it by reading this book which shows the grip of Nehru over world history , where both the history of the world and his character unravels. Maybe world history had more grip over him than the other way around
This book is a collection of 196 letters written over a period of around three years.
Each letter constitutes a single chapter of the book.
The first letter is written on New Year's Day, 1931, and the last on August 9, 1933.
All these years Nehru had been in Jail and he spent this time reading, and writing letters to his only daughter Indira, who was growing up to be the future Prime Minister of yet colonial India.
Most of these letters are written from District Jail, Dehradun.
Nehru traces the history of different nations, cultures and civilizations.
really a ref. book for world history
His daughter Indira and grandson Rajiv both also served as Prime Minister."Glimpses of World History, a book written by Nehru in 1934, is a panoramic sweep of the history of humankind.
It is a collection of 196 letters written between 1930-1933, as an introduction to the world history to his daughter Indira, then thirteen years old.The letters, written in a span of thirty months when Nehru was imprisoned in various places by the British, starts off with one he sends to his daughter on her birthday.Written from prison, where he had no recourse to reference books or a library but his personal notes, Glimpses of World History contains the history of humankind from 6000 BC to the time of writing of the book.
Being addressed to his 13 year old daughter, it is also very easy to read.
It include about ancient Egypt, Greece, china,India, Maya & Aztec culture.Middle ages of Rome, Asia Manor, Asia pacific countries.
History of European country from Nomad to Nationalism.History of Russia from Turk & mongol to Tsar to USSR five year plans.
Slavery system during the middle ages & in new era by America & Europe Explains the theory of Karl Marx communism, world crisis, deflation of currency, gold valuation.
Book exclude the history of South America, Australia & Africa.
Also not cover the history of USA in details compare to Europe , Asia & Russia.Over all it was very good read.
A commendable effort by J.L. Nehru in compiling these series of 198 letters to give his teenage daughter a glimpse of world history covering almost 4000 years from the dusty ages of Mohenjodaro to the brutal times of Gandhi.
Since these writings were meant for his daughter, Nehru tries to burden these letters with as little dates as possible and as few names as absolutely necessary.
On the contrary, this is an added benefit for the Indian reader.I wish I had read this earlier and that history were taught in similar lines at school rather than a colossal collection of dates and names.
