https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183688.The_Secret_Destiny_of_America
Hall's The Secret Destiny of America, which also includes another of his works America's Assignment with Destiny is a sometimes interesting but disjointed history.
Hall, who was a member of a secret esoteric society and whom some say was a Freemason, writes about nonstandard and very obscure history.
The basis of the book is about freemasonry and how it has shaped American and Western history and society.
229)and'Franklin was a link between the European Secret Societies and the American democratic experiment.' (p.
224) Notice that America is called an "experiment" and then think about Obama's singing of "American exceptionalism," the constant warfare, and what it all could mean America might be in actuality.
This book isn't for people with single minded thoughts, this book is for the person who can change their own view on history.
It takes a powerful mind to open yourself to the a plethora of possibilities that there are.
I mean how many people can stop and ask themselves can i believe of what I'm always told?
Anyways this is a good book for the open minded, it supports its theories with good facts.
I always wondered about Atlantis, but now i can see how mythology and history ties in.
So i recommended this book to anyone that enjoys conspiracies, mystics, and mythology.
fascinating
Quite a trip! Obviously speculative, but worth the read.
Another great by the master Manly P. Hall. There will be many who disagree with the ideas contained therein but look closer and take a wider view and things which may at first were unclear or concealed may come to light.
For those keen readers who are open to everything, attached to nothing and want to further free your mind; this book is for you.Just be mindful that Hall himself writes in an esoteric manner at times as if he doesn't want us to know the whole story; deliberate or not...you be the judge.
Having said that, I do think-however- that the gereral overview he gives of Atlantis, The Freemasons, Sir Thomas More, Francis Bacon up to Benjamin Franklin to be correct.
Having knowledge of these topic and individuals from Plato and other sources, he suggestions seem feasible that America is an idea that goes way back and that America is destined to spread democracy.
I think it's especially true of him to say that education concerning religion AND science needs to improve beyond the limits of pragmatism and linear/temporal progress.
If democratic progress, we need a philosophical and pedagogical Renassiance much like the Islamic Empire had 800-1200 AD.
This was an interesting tale of America's mystical beginnings and even stranger destiny.
According to the author the United States was seen as the New Atlantis by the secret societies of the day.
The meaning behind the Great Seal of the United States that is found on the back of the one dollar bill is also explained.
Masonic symbols are to be found in just about every American City with Washington D.C. containing many Masonic symbols such as the Washington Monument which is actually an Egyptian Obelisk.Manly P.
Hall was a renowned Masonic philosopher and Mystic who was born in Canada.
Hall is often deceptive in this book, selling New World Order as "world democracy". That said, there are at least two passages that provide valuable insight into the Pre-Columbian presence of "Old World" peoples in the "New World", and even some clues as to the origin of mysterious high-technology megalithic structures in Peru and Bolivia. Hall appears to be correct regarding the subtle and long-running "hidden hand" in the affairs of North and South America over a period of millennia. An interesting book, but one that must be read skeptically, due to Hall's own hidden agenda.
I enjoyed this lost treasure, explaining how America was kept secret and "in waiting" for the correct time for it to be "discovered" and posits that ancient Greek sailors knew of the land they called Atlantis, where they had supposedly explored the St. Lawrence seaway and the great lakes region. It goes on to a utopian approach that goes back to Plato, and his teachings of a great society that was to be established and was predestined to be America. Very good stuff and I would highly recommend it to those who'd like to connect more dots of history.
Probably a turn-off to any who are not interested in the mystical subjects that are discussed. I found his style to be interesting and at times fascinating. Overall, this book did not move me as dramatically as his "Lost Keys of Freemasonry." Once one gets beyond the titles, the "could it be" aspect of occultish subject matter, and the scary (at least startling) implications of any truth that may be therein, the sheer power and poetic flavor of many sections is worth the time of the read.
Hall, as always, offers an esoteric insight into the world. The subject of his work here is the formation of the United States. Some aspects of the work are the forerunner to the later work of Graham Hancock, but few have ever matched Hall's insight into the esoteric. Whilst the work stands by itself as a significant couplet of essays, the reader who is well versed in the occult will discern what is merely inferred between Hall's words. There is more here than the plebian will realise.
AwesomeIf you want to be inspired, filled with purpose, and marvel at the vision of men who sacrificed of themselves so that humanity could benefit for generations to come... read Manly P. Hall
Fun read. Will definitely want to revisit this at some point down the line. I'm not much of a historian but most of this book appears to me like wild speculation. Anyway, If you're into "alternative histories," this one's a real whopper.
Interesting read and concepts.
Perhaps my favorite Manly P. Hall book out there. It is easy reading and gives a lot of hidden history unknown to most people. Very interesting perspective from Mr. Hall.
Another Classic from Manly Palmer HallAmazing read... Every time I read one of Mr. hall's books, I immediately want to read the bibliography of his source works!
Research!
Overall I enjoyed the book. I’ll definitely have to look more into the Pharaoh Akhnaton, and I enjoyed his interpretations of stories like Atlantis and concepts like Alchemy. Biggest downfall is the lack of any citations; definitely a lot of speculation but an interesting read nonetheless.
I wonder if Manly P. Hall had any trouble with HUAC.
I read this for entertainment.
It is a short book that could be easily read in one uninterrupted afternoon.
All the great conspiracy elements are there.
Hall apparently was sympathetic to the one world government agenda and believed its implementation was the secret dream of many philosophers.
His arguments are surprisingly anti-biblical: salvation and redemption through wisdom is his theme.
By wisdom, Hall means esoteric new-age pseudoscience.
This makes most of the book amusing but utterly unbelievable.
If you have a soft spot for conspiracy, it is worth the read and for that, and only that, I give it two stars.
I decided to read this after checking what books were used for reference for The Lost Symbol and seeing what I could get from my library. It's pretty short and was derived from a talk the author gave. Sometimes it didn't seem cohesive, some of the things were interesting-though most intentions explained aren't anything I hadn't heard from church in a slightly different way; this land set aside by God's design to be the greatest nation, secret societies, perfection of man, ignoring of divine laws to the detriment of society.
Illustrative of the NWO ethos, this book reveals precisely how influential the authoritarian humanists have been. Nevertheless, it is Satanic trash.
Very interesting read.
This book was a bit of a disappointment. This mostly seemed to be Mr. Hall's opinions and suppositions on the why, who and how the founding of the civilizations of the Americas were founded.
