https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108077.The_Watsons_Go_to_Birmingham_1963
Working on a mechanic line in a Flint, Michigan automotive factory, he penned three historical fiction novels for middle grade children.
The winner of both the Newberry and Coretta Scott King as well as other awards, The Watsons Go to Birmingham- 1963 is a quality autobiographical and historical fiction novel.
Christopher Paul Curtis has created a powerful, introspective novel for middle grade readers.
An important middle grade novel, The Watsons Go to Birmingham 1963 is 4.5 stars, and I look forward to reading Curtis' other works.
When my 10 year old says, "Mom, you HAVE to read this!" and checks my progress, it melts my heart.
I'm only a few pages in, but I'm wondering why my 5th grade teacher didn't offer great books(or any for that matter) for us to read!This truly is YA.
It's full of adolescent antics, lights up the importance of family and told the story of an incident that happened in Birmingham '63.
It's an important read for kids and provided the opportunity to talk about the Civil Rights Movement.My favorite part of the book was when my son read to me his favorite chapter while I ate dinner.
I can’t tell you how artful I thought it was… well, let me try.First, I have a big problem with history (so much so that it is truly embarrassing) and I always have had this problem —I need to know the people and stories behind the events to remember anything.
I have to get to know history from the inside out, and that is just what this great book allows me to do—through all my own strengths: feelings, nuances, humor, imagination….through story.
All these little things that TELL the story, and tell the characters, and make it so real.
The plot is simple: 10-year-old Kenny (the narrator) has a loving family: a mom and dad, a little sister (Joetta), and a big, tough brother (Byron).
During the family's visit, a church is bombed and 4 little girls are killed (taken from the historical Sixteenth Street Baptist Church that was bombed on September 15, 1963).
At one point, everyone in the family couldn't find Joetta and they feared she died in the bombing.The book is one of those sleepers because for the first 150 pages, the reader gets good family fun, a wonderful collection of memorable characters.
When Momma lists Byron’s many “Fantastic Adventures”, she mentions a “…problem…” with a girl named Mary Ann, the details of which are left entirely to the reader’s imagination.The beleaguered school bus driver tells minor bully Larry Dunn to leave Rufus alone: “You don’t want to start panning on folks…Not with what I know ‘bout your mama.”Language: Byron frequently drops mild swears and occasionally addresses his brother as “Your jive little a$$,” though he usually substitutes “behind.” On one occasion Kenny informs us that By muttered “the S word” which he does not print.Substance Abuse: Somehow the only JV thing that Byron hasn’t done, apparently, is try any illegal drugs or alcohol.
I read this in like middle school and LOVED IT!That's like all I remember hahahaha
This is the only other novel I have read by Curtis and I enjoyed it even more than Bud, Not Buddy.
The brothers throwing cookies at birds, or eating them until they are sick is easily remembered as well.
When I was young I didn’t really understand the significance of that section of the book and the only thing I remember really enjoying was the “whirlpool” scene which gave me chills.
Later, the way the author made everything in this book work and still made it something that anyone can enjoy floors me.
Absolutely brilliant and I recommend it to all those who didn’t already have to read it.
While the book can be pretty funny and the Weird Watsons are a tight-knit, pretty-darn-average family filled with support and love, it also meanders and at times even plods.
Only the final two or three chapters had any "zip" to it, and this is when the book develops into something worth reading.
(I don't want to say exactly what this turning point--one of the book's only turning points--is because it did come as a surprise to me.) At this point, the book finally became more than a series of "so what?" family narratives and revealed something deeper about how an average family reacts to the devastating social climate of the 1960s.
The Watsons go to Birmingham-1963 by Christopher Paul Curtis is a historical fiction book.
They then come to an agreement to go down to Birmingham, Alabama where they were going to stay with Kenny's grandma for awhile, then leave Byron there for the summer.
I gave The Watsons go to Birmingham-1963 five out of five stars, because this was a great novel and I really liked it.
If someone asked me about this book, I would probably say they had to read it.
Because this was such a great book, I would read it again.
In this novel 'The Watsons Go to Birmingham-1963', tells about a family that consist of Kenny, Byron, Momma, Dad And joey the girl.
Through their ups and downs something horrific happens which changes how the family acts and draws them closer together then ever before.
Overall I really liked this novel it was really easy to relate to some of the characters in this novel, for instance I am a Surprisingly good child like Kenny and i have someone in my family that drives me absolutely nuts like Joey.
One of my least favorite parts was when the most horrific events happened (you'll have to read to find out)
The Watsons Go to Birmingham-1963  is a great historical fiction book to read the author of this book is Christopher Paul Curtis.
The book shows you what it was like to be in an African American family in 1963 of the southern and northern parts of America.
My favorite part of the book was during the bombing.
It was horribly frightening, but that part kept me on the edge of my seat more than any book I have ever read.
The book was great although I really wish the epilogue told us what happened 5-10 years later.
I'd definitely recommend this book.
A list of thoughts upon reading this novel.1. I love children's lit and middle grade.2. I love my teacher for making us read this book.3. I love this fucking book.4. Kids are mean.5. WHERE ARE THE FUCKING TISSUES.6. The Watsons are the best.
Funny and has the serious parts towards to the end.
The setting of this novel is placed in the year of 1963.
The characters are Kenny, who's point of view it is told by, Byron, his older brother, Joey, his younger brother, and his parents, Daniel and Wilona.
They live in Flint, Michigan but they go to Birmingham for a while.
The main plot is that Byron is such a bad behaving kid, a juvenile delinquent that his parents decide to take him to Birmingham, Alabama, where Grandma Sands lives, to straighten him up.
I rated this book a five out of five because I liked the main plot of this story.
I also liked this book because of the characters.
Though most of this story is told in a lighthearted way as we learn about this family, the beginning was almost hard for me to read with its matter-of-fact depiction of the bullying that the narrator and his friend receive, as he wonders why bullies are the ones who can be so funny.
I assume the novelist set his ending in the summer, so the kids in the story aren't missing school -- a 'blip' that won't bother the target audience either.
Loved it. I recommend to parents to read along with their children. I think its a book that touches on issues that will get families talking.

With laugh out loud scenes interjected from cover to cover the Watson’s trip to Birmingham introduces an unforgettably tragic moment into an otherwise light hearted read.*Contains Spoilers*The Watsons Go to Birmingham is told from the point of view of 10 year old Kenny.
Between looking after his younger sister, avoiding bullying from his older brother, accepting his designation as school nerd, and pleasing his parents, Kenny is one very occupied little boy .The story opens by describing the family dynamics and we are introduced to Kenny’s family.
This leaves Kenny’s older brother, who previously spent most of his time terrorizing Kenny, left to explain the situation the best way he knows how.
Mamma is a big part of this story tries to control the kids and she picks on Dad who is probably the least important character out of the main characters in this story but he still plays a big role.I gave The Watsons go to Birmingham-1963 by Christopher Paul Curtis a four star rating because it isn't the best book i have ever read but it is a very good book and i really enjoyed it!
I like that the story is told by Kenny because it gives the reader a point of view from a ten year old.
This book is really great and I recommend it to everyone who likes to know a bit about history with a touch of fiction tied into it.
I really like the book and it's just a really great read and I really enjoyed it.I'm pretty sure that the beginning begins with a dare that Byron makes to his gullible of a brother.
Something like that.
And as the story progesses, the Watsons find themselves going to Birmingham to leave Byron there with his grandma.
It is the story of an African American family living in Michigan - the father works in an auto factory and is a member of the UAW union.
Their lives illustrate differences for African Americans living in the north and the south.This novel for middle readers (probably 4th -6th grade) tells the story of the Watson family who live in Flint Michigan.
Mrs. Watson is from Alabama and she just cannot get used to the Michigan cold.
The chapters are a series of family stories, almost always amusing.
Things get more sober toward the end when the family drives south to visit Alabama.
This was an interesting story about the Watson family. It's filled with realistic anecdotes of an African-American family living in Flint, Michigan. The focus of the story is between 2 brothers and their arduous relationship. All this takes place in 1963 with the back drop of the civil Rights movement. It's a wonderful story to get kids to talk about family life, siblings, and of course to talk about racism and the Civil rights Movement.
This is probably my favorite book of all time. It had every element that I love in a book. It was hilarious with great descriptions, and at the same time it was powerful and thoughtful.
A child's perspective of 1963, Birmingham (USA) seemed pretty heavy a subject.
This novel in a sense is for middle school children and the adult issues are balanced with children's humour and perspective.
This is a well-written novel that I think would be perfect for children as well as adults.
I took off a star for this novel because in a sense the title of the book didn't actually happen towards the end of the book.
I was waiting for them to travel to Birmingham so I kind of didn't enjoy the stories as much.
This was a well written story, one that was mostly filled with anecdotes about the life of an African American family during the 1960s.
The anecdotes worked well to weave a cohesive story, one that touches on the struggles in the Civil Rights Movement, especially in the South.
I enjoyed the narrative written from the perspective of a fourth grade student, Kenny.
His interaction with friends and family set the stage for the cultural diversity and challenges faced by African Americans.
Kenny's family life also showed a different family dynamic, one of the past, where child rearing was notably different from today's parenting.
I had this book read to me when I was a kid, but it's impressive how much I forgot about it. I mostly remembered the older brother, the ugly brown car, and the explosion at the end. I didn't remember how plodding and repetitive it is. The Watsons don't even leave for Birmingham until over halfway through the book. I guess that didn't bother me as a kid. I LOVE these characters. They're funny and realistic.Better review to come . . .
Kenny Watson lives with his family in Flint Michigan.
Meanwhile, Kenny is constantly being bullied at school, in his neighborhood and most times at the hand of Byron.
I thought it was interesting that the parents did not explain the concept of credit to the kids when requesting that they go to the store to purchase some things and sign for it.
My sisters and brothers and I use to do just that, but our parents did not explain to concept of credit to us either.
The mother counts off a list of troubles that Byron has gotten into for the past year, one being joining a gang.
The summary of the novel does not prepare you for the fact that about 60% of the book takes place before the family even leaves to go on the road trip to Birmingham.
Because the reader identifies with the Watsons through all of their hilarious adventures, when the church burning occurs, you are reminded that these funny people, who seem like they could be members of your own family, are living in a dangerous time period.
The Watsons Go to Birmingham - 1963Book Review  Reading about the weird Watsons is no joke. Ok maybe it is. They stay funny and calm during their hard situations. Overall I give this book 4 stars. It is an attention grabber throughout the entire book.  The book is very relatable, and gives strong family values. First, is Daniel Watson the dad, he is the breadwinner, and a fun loving father. Second, is Wilona Watson the mom, She runs the household. Joetta is the youngest and only girl. She cares
It is an attention grabber throughout the entire book.
The book is very relatable, and gives strong family values.
First, is Daniel Watson the dad, he is the breadwinner, and a fun loving father.
Second, is Wilona Watson the mom, She runs the household.
For instance, mom was about to punish Byron but Joetta intervened multiple times.
That shows a strong family bond.
The climax was the historical church bombing.
It was not exciting because they did not have enough detail on the church bombing.
Again this book is an attention grabber.
This family is like my family close, loving and funny.
In the story  The Watsons Go to Birmingham 1963, out main characters are a boy named Kenny and his older brother Byron.
But Byron still does things he is not suppose to, so Momma Watson and Dad decide to take Byron to Alabama with a plan of things to do when they get to Alabama.
He is the middle child and i also have an older brother who is mean to me, like Byron is to Kenny.
I also have a little sister, but she is older than Joetta who is six years old.
