https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12680907-bitterblue
I see Katsa painted by some reviewers as 'man hating' because she doesn't want to get married or to have children, which is an interpretation that never dawned on me when I read the book, and I see backlash very vocally continuing with Fire, and this because while Fire wanted to have children desperately, she decided the lineage of human monsters was too dangerous to continue.
/fix or clarifyI can't believe Katsa's desire not to wed is being interpreted by some as 'man hating'.
and yet, because she doesn't want to be a wife and mother, Katsa is 'man hating'?
Untangling a mystery in which no one even makes an effort to pretend to act normally is too much a challenge for me.There are things I did like in Bitterblue.
The prologue, containing a scene of Leck mind-raping Bitterblue and her mother is, in my opinion, the best piece of Cashore's writing, horrifying and affecting.We also meet quite a few characters from the author's prior novels.
animated than they were in Graceling).And the last hundred pages, where some secrets are uncovered and things start coming together, are much more pleasurable to read.But even keeping the positives in mind, I can't say I enjoyed reading Bitterblue.
Starring a biracial and ambiguously queer woman of color, it follows Bitterblue as she tries to bring back the traditions, culture, & liberty her dictator father took away from the country of Monsea.
Along the way, she must come to terms the legacy of a genocidal, terrifying monster as a ruler, one who wiped away every detail of the country and replaced it with his own imagined world.
In one way, it's a mystery– Bitterblue spends this book trying to discover what really happened during her father's reign, to both her people AND herself, and what is happening now.
Part of it's probably because, for most of the book, Po and Katsa show up just because this is the sequel to Graceling, not because they really need to be a part of the plot (the same problem with Leck's role in Fire, he just felt out of place with the rest of the book).
Bitterblue does come out of it with a sense of how to heal her kingdom, hope for the future that things could be great like in the Dells, but I didn't really feel it, not emotional, too political with all the talk of pardons and new advisors.
King Leck used his grace to take over the realm.Book 2 - we fall into the land of Monsters (people/animals with unnaturally bright/colored hair have psychic powers).
I understand that this was a side-effect of King Leck's grace but it was just so frustrating to read a whole book that consisted of that.2) The Age IssuesThis is in reference to how old Bitterblue is (18) and how old she is treated/behaved as (~10 to 12).Everyone surrounding Bitterblue is convinced that she cannot handle the truth and do their best to avoid telling her anything remotely ugly.
It was so wonderful and so sad at the same time!
And Bitterblue falls in love with Saf and there are all kinds of problems when he finds out she's the Queen.
I mean this book =( Katsa and PO are together and they both love Bitterblue so much and she them.
It's not confusing, just to someone like me trying to write a review!There is a man named Death that is Bitterblue's librarian.
You know, I'm done trying to tell you all about the people in the book.
"I don't understand anyone," Bitterblue said miserably, "or anything.
If you know me at all, then you know I have been DYING to read Bitterblue when I first heard about it. I honestly couldn’t bear the wait. This book was first slated to come out one year ago, in April, 2011. Then it got pushed to September. Then! The publishers pushed it even farther to 2012! I was seriously this close to exploding But it was okay. I’m a patient person. No really, I am! I’m no stranger to the agony a reader goes through when they’re literally shaking with excitement and anxiousne
I’m no stranger to the agony a reader goes through when they’re literally shaking with excitement and anxiousness for a book that isn’t out yet, and every day just feels like an eternity.
Now onto my review, which, as always with books I love so incredibly much, is overlong, because I just can’t reign in my love!Bitterblue spoke of so many promises to me, whispering to me, beckoning me into Bitterblue’s strange world full of secrets and lies and hidden truths.
I don’t care one way or another about the whispy, transparent girl-parts (though I’m not sure why they chose to go with the lips on Fire’s cover) but it’s YA, so I suppose it’s required that we have a disembodied head or unfortunately close close-up.Five-Sentence Summary: The last time we saw Bitterblue, she became Queen of Monsea at ten years old with the death of her father, the psychopathic King Leck, who had spent the past 35 years mind-raping everyone in the seven kingdoms with his Grace.
Whatever this book is about I want to read it! Kristin Cashore has won my trust.
I just wish the author would continue on with Katsa and Po, the fact she's leaving us hanging over a freaking cliff pisses me off.
It makes me angry that I could cry over a book, and a tad bit confuzzled.^ Srry 'bout that.
I'm not going to read any more of this series just because I'm not so much into this author anymore, but I just wanted to point out to those who like romance and will get into those sort of novels, that this happens quite a bit.
REMEMBER: this happens quite a bit in romance series.
I love this world and Bitterblue was a great main character. The ending was abrupt and there was some pretty disturbing subject matter. But this book shines by pulling in the main characters from the previous companion novels. I'm glad I finally read this series and I'm sad it's over!All 3 books are inclusive of varying skin colors and races, disabilities, and sexualities.Potential Triggers (that I'm aware of): Mentions of torture and rape. Injury/violence. Suicide and thoughts or suicide. Dead parents (prior to the novel) and some grief.
I really wanted to love this book.
It started out really good, but half-way through I was ready for this book to start rapping up.
When it did finally start rapping up, it just ended with ZERO resolution.
There has to be another book coming or this will be a major flop.
We finally see how truly twisted and royally f-ed up he was.
Bitterblue does do a little self-exploration, but we just barely see the beginning of it and the book abruptly ends.
I’m sorry to say that I could have totally passed on this book.
This is the sequel to “Graceling” and is set 8 years after events that happened in Graceling.This book is about Bitterblue now 18 and is Queen.
She is trying to find a way to help her kingdom move forward after the manipulation it was under during the reign of a mad king for over 30 years.
There are people in the kingdom who want to know what really happened in those years and there are some that want to make sure the truth doesn’t come out by killing the truth seekers.
Bitterblue is trying to investigate what the truth is and who the people doing the killing are.
Most of the reviews I've read that have been against Bitterblue being the main character, I have found that almost all of the readers feel this way because they want to know how Po and Katsa ended.
Cashore did a superb job with developing all her characters, and I am glad that is so, even if the romantic in me would have loved Katsa to be more open and lovable, almost like Fire.
I trust Cashore to do a wonderful job with this book.EDIT: Now that the cover has come out, I have to say, it is beautiful!
I always think, you know, women are raised that a man on a white horse will come, swoop us up, marry us, and that marriage will magically solve all of our problems.
When that doesn’t actually happen, we think, Oh, it’s because if we have children, that will actually solve all of our problems.
It indicates that the power wasn't there all along, but if you follow the treasure map right, you'll find the magic problem-solving solution.But, along those lines, I love the message in this book, like in The Hunger Games series, that we need to discover our own power - that it was there all along, and that life was never about finding a magic that lets us take the easy way out.
*4 MINDBENDING STARS* “The more I see and hear, the more I realize how much I don't know.” Oh my god, I love how this book brings the two previous ones together so perfectly!It's been several years since I read the other books in this trilogy so it took me a while to get back into this whole world. Graceling and Fire were among my favorite books about 5 years ago, but sadly I didn't remember a lot about them when I started this one. Once I did though, I just couldn't stop reading and I HAD to fi
Oh my god, I love how this book brings the two previous ones together so perfectly!It's been several years since I read the other books in this trilogy so it took me a while to get back into this whole world.
Graceling and Fire were among my favorite books about 5 years ago, but sadly I didn't remember a lot about them when I started this one.
This whole story was so mindbending and unique!
I didn't know how much I missed these characters until I started reading about them again.Full review coming soon!
8 years after the story of Graceling, Bitterblue is queen and things are just not adding up in her kingdom and she is determined to understand would make her a better ruler.The Story-What I felt when I finished book was that I spent the entire time under King Leck’s rule and couldn’t really understand what was happening.
The book really could have just been a novella.
The World Building-This was the hardest part about this book.
All the lies and uncovering of the lies really made this book really obscure.
But what they're asking each other is not the same thing, and he knows it.
At the same time, there were parts that jumped from scene to scene that I felt like I missed stuff.
(view spoiler)[For example, when she reading on Leck's history books, and she realized Thiel betrayed her.
But I remember reading that part about her reading to her accusing of Thiel betraying her, and I remember thinking, "What did he do?" (hide spoiler)]I also felt there were a lot of parts in the book that made me feel awkward.
After years of waiting for this book, I just feel like Cashore kind of burst my bubble.
Bitterblue realises just how out-of-touch she is with her people and how deeply their mistrust runs and how far the mistreatment has spread.Upon opening this I was pleased at being reunited with the characters of the first book.
And the last portion of the book was even more difficult and poignant.
This one character was possible for this becoming my least favourite book in the trilogy.That being said, this was an overall enjoyable an fitting end to the series and I am sad to be saying goodbye to this world.
So eine geniale Trilogie! Lest sie einfach alle wenn ihr das noch nicht getan habt! Ich liebe das historische Setting, die besonderen Charaktere und einfach die geniale Auflösung und auch die Zusammenführung der ersten beiden Bände hier im letzten Teil. In jedem Band kamen bekannte Akteure wieder vor aber es tauchten auch jedes Mal viele neue auf. Außerdem sind die Bücher so liebevoll gestaltet, vor allem dieses hier. Mit Landkarten, Glossar und Zeichnungen. Hach so eine tolle Trilogie einfach! Komplex aber genial! :)
Cashore took her time with this novel and I had a feeling she wouldn't send anything less than her best out into the hands of her fans.I'm a long time lover of fantasy, but, too often, YA lacks the epic scope that first called me to the fantasy genre.
And, though I yearn for happily ever after in every love story I read, I respect Cashore for creating and maintaining a necessary obstacles.
In this way, despite the fantastical elements of these novels, they still feel real.And it isn't just the romance that lends itself to realism.
It's quite wonderful.I'm forever recommending Cashore's novels and Bitterblue will be no exception.
I was so surprised when I started reading this book.
I liked Graceling and liked Fire even more.
I expected to like Bitterblue but I couldn't force myself.
It seemed like Kristin Cashore took steps backward.
It was not essential to any character's experience or growth unlike Graceling and Fire.
I wanted to love Saf but he was completely obnoxious for the first three quarters of the book.
The reason it caught me so off guard from the beginning is that the sarcasm and silliness is completely over the top.
Note to all authors - you can only use a word like elucidate so many times.
Diction, people!
Diction!
And now it's over :( I think this was my favourite book in this series.
I was so intrigued by the plot and this book raised SO MANY QUESTIONS!
There were like a million plottwists (: Bitterblue was kicking ass and I just liked it more than the other two (although they were really good too).
I think I'm going to miss this world so badly!
And OMG THE ENDING!
I WANT MORE WHAT THE F HAPPENS?!
Only, I felt like it could have been 200 pages shorter (but that's the case with all of Kristin Cashore's books) It was pretty slow :(
Moved pretty slow, but I enjoyed seeing how the kingdom/Katsa and Po are doing post Graceling. I think some parts could have been shortened, lengthy sections about decoding and puzzle breaking dragged on. It was at those points that I would put down the book or struggle to keep going. I loved all the new characters though, Saf was great.
The first thing I am going to do after writing this review is take my copy of Bitterblue, hide it in some deep, dark recess of my attic where I will hopefully forget it exists, and pretend as if Kristin Cashore did not write a third Graceling Realm book.
That being said, I’ve been looking forward to reading Bitterblue ever since I heard Cashore was writing a third book in this amazing series.
Furthermore, Bitterblue felt like an echo of Fire a lot of the time simply because both characters had cruel and monstrous fathers.
It is definitely one of the most disappointing books I’ve ever read.
I should have done my reviews for Graceling and Fire right after finishing them, because now all I can think to write about them is I LOVE THEM SO MUCH, and WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED TO BITTERBLUE?Bitterblue picks up (after a very creepy prologue) ten years after Graceling, when Bitterblue is 18 and fully stationed as queen of Monsea, struggling to find her place amid a kingdom just waking up from a 35-year sleep under Leck's rule.
The most satisfying mysteries I've read have been those where I was given just enough clues to begin to form my own theories, but not necessarily enough that I expect the main character to develop the same.
Yes, she does think once or twice that she wished she was perhaps, just a little, but this isn't an issue, simply a wistful passing moment.
Besides, far more important to her than looks is the ability to rule fairly and well, and help her country heal after the abuse her father inflicted (see Graceling for details - but it isn't essential).
(view spoiler)[When she does find her strength and power in the book it comes from her and it isn't magic, its simply strength of mind and will and all that is possible to find in any world.
I read for an hour each morning while I work out. This was one of those books that made me forget I was exercising--and that's high praise. The author, Kristin Cashore, said she had trouble letting go of Bitterblue. I did, too.
I fell in love with the world that Kristin Cashore created.
While Graceling and Fire are full of action and adventure, and focus on two women with extraordinary abilities, Bitterblue is much more reflective and mysterical (yeah...I just made that word up), and focuses on an ordinary girl thrust into an extraordinary situation.Often in this book, and especially in the beginning, I felt that things were progressing very slowly.
I love how she grows in this book, and takes ownership of her people and her role as queen.
I think there will be people who have a really hard time reading parts of this book.
I think the readers that gave it the low ratings are right.This was her weakest book.Let me start off with things I liked:- The drawings before each section & at the end of the book.- The A Who's Who of the World As We Know It" section.- Giddon- PoHere's what I had trouble with: **Spoilers**- Bitterblue.
It felt like I had put the book down and started reading someone elses.
Kat is what 26?- the purpose of Bann & Raffin in the story?- the purpose of now having a lesbian couple in the story (that was just thrown in there with no purpose)- Saf. So what about him?
