https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124684.Go_Ahead_Secret_Seven
When I was six or seven, and well into my Tinkle phase (for non-Indians and younger people, Tinkle was a children's periodical that used to be absolutely amazing, though it's pretty terrible these days), my mother decided I should read something other than er...comic books, and got me this from the lending library that stood on the next road.
But my mother, the clever woman she is, asked me something about the book that I was unable to answer, and made sure I actually read the book this time.
Secret Seven is like the first grade of all children's books.
This time the Seven don't have a mystery, so they decide to hone their skills and while doing so uncover a mystery! Pedigree dogs are going missing, and one night while George is practising stalking potential crims he gets caught and made to leave the Secret Seven! Everything works out in the end of course, and the crime ring is busted.I didn't realize the first five books were all about thieves basically. Usually these series are more varied. Hoping to see a change soon, although the dog angle was a nice touch. Four stars.
This time it's dog smuggling30 August 2013 The Secret Seven certainly have a different feel to them than do the Famous Five. In a way I find that the Secret Seven books are somewhat less serious and more light hearted than the Famous Five books, which appear to be aimed at older children. I guess the other thing is that the Secret Seven are actually younger than the Famous Five, and I suspect that most of them will be around seven or eight, whereas the Famous Five are clearly in their early teen
This time it's dog smuggling30 August 2013	The Secret Seven certainly have a different feel to them than do the Famous Five.
In a way I find that the Secret Seven books are somewhat less serious and more light hearted than the Famous Five books, which appear to be aimed at older children.
The Secret Seven books tend to be shorter, and faster paced, than the Famous Five, which is probably because they are aimed at a younger audience.
The Secret Seven tend to be more urban based, probably because it is set in some town, and they are younger, which means that they do not have as much liberty as do the older children.
I really liked this one as it stood apart from all the other books and reminded me of the first SS book, as the crime done here is the robbery of animals, particularly the pedigree breed to dogs.
Things get really bad when a mysterious stranger deliberately exiles George from the SS Society on the basis of shadowing practice he keeps doing in the night.
The story flows at a fixed pace with many things happening but at the same time, the simplicity in the story is retained.
Many, side quests like observing, memory and shadowing are also involved.
I never did like Peter with all his airs, and in this book I positively hated him. Rest of the kids behave like wimps. The only person I like is Susie, who is unfortunately shunned by the gang, including her brother Jack, who should have been more friendly to her rather than neglecting her for the gang's sake. The mystery too is very limp. All in all, an avoidable book.
i started this book yesterday and have finished too....really an outstanding book......... enid blyton is surely the best writer and all her books keep the reader busy in,imagining the whole scene. I also felt scared sometimes when Peter, Jack, Colin and scamper were going down the coalhole..... well done enid blyton!!! and i m eagerly waiting to read the next part. ...:-)
I've read several of the Famous Five books, but this is the first Secret Seven I've read. In this fun mystery, the seven young sleuths track down and thwart a dog-theft ring. I'm going to pass this (and others in the series) on to my seven-year-old grandson, who I know will enjoy it.
SPIES....!The kids will love it! Don't blame me if you are kids go for spying. The book is a good read all the same.
The number of coincidences stretches the belief to breaking point in this one as they becomethe Secret Six for a while when George is banned from the group by his father. One would still like the sentence where someone tells Peter he is a right prat and smack him on the nose! If it were written today I'm sure they would stand up to him and tell him to get over himself. Anyway fairly typical Blyton mystery, all be it with many coincidences to lead them forward.
The books are repetitive and obviously not directed towards my age range - but there's something charming about every single book of the writer's that never fails to take me back to my childhood. Every time I'm transported to days where I pored over the Secret Seven, the Five Find-Outers, and of course the Famous Five. Must-reads for every child growing up in the UK for sure.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
I am loving Scamper more and more with every ry adverure
Don’t get me wrong I loved this so much but I’m much more of a famous five guy. But fun and quick read. Enid Blyton was a fantastic author and this certainly is a good read.
Secret Seven are so much better ;)Dogs, cellars, shenanigans. As per, fun Enid Blyton read on holiday.
Good
My favorite childhood read.
It was adventurers, especially where they went in the coal hole to see what was inside it and the George came and saved them. It also opens up my imagination.
After all, I'd read The Secret Seven stories myself as a child.
The Secret Seven are a group of boys and girls who meet up to solve mysteries by themselves, without the help of adults.
The 7 have to cope with one of their group being suspended by their parents.There are secret passwords, there's spying, and a crime ring (I won't spoil it...).I can imagine this would absorb the young reader.Although it has a modern setting (these aren't the original versions), it's a old-fashioned world in the book, with the boys very much in charge of the activites, where adults take annoying children to police stations, and children follow strange looking men in the street to see what they're up to......
Go Ahead Secret Seven has enough to make readers (7-9) turn the page, with its intriguing story.
This one is a little unusual in that it's driven by concerns about a member who has to resign.Goaded by Susie, Jack's annoying sister, Peter calls a meeting of the Secret Seven.
There's some concern that the group might fade out, since they haven't met in a while.
George tries the latter and fails disastrously; his father forces him to resign the society.But the other members only consider his resignation to be temporary, and have someone fill in for him that brings a smile to George's face.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Secret Seven) Features 7 children who form a backyard club. They love to have meetings with SecretPasswords, etc. Soon, they begin to fall into mysteries. This series is for the younger reader than the other series Enid Blyton wrote for children. 8-10 years old maybe.Great reading. introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
Poor George to be forbbidden to join in the secret seven meeting after getting caught by a strange man who informed his parents while he was just practising shadowing ordered by his group's chief,Peter!!
Re-read.This was definitely better than number four. It's all completely unbelievable, of course, but I rather enjoyed the way that Blyton brought together all the different threads to uncover and then solve the mystery.
I thought that this book was the best one of the Secret Seven series (so far); even though I vaguely guessed the plot in the first 7 chapters. And since it involved dogs, and since I am a dog lover, it was a joy to read!
AMAZING!!!George is in trouble and has to resign from the Secret Seven - now it's up to Scamper the spaniel to protect the rest of the gang from danger as they go in search of some missing pedigree dogs...
Children running around town at dangerous hours? Check. Shadowing potentially violent felons? Check. Parents and policemen who think this is an awesome idea? Check!It can only be the world of the Secret Seven as they take part in their fifth mystery ...
As with all of the Secret Seven series, this book incorporated mystery. It was exciting and full of suspense right to the end. I enjoyed this book, particularly the character development throughout the book and series. The book also inspires me to find fun mystery adventures in my own life.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
this is the second ss book im reading in this week. i must say this book was realy brilliant not to mention typical  enid blyton style.whose your favourite ss agent?i just cant decide!!BTW i still feel im too grown up for ss.i finished this book in about 10 minutes.
not the best of the collection but i didn't mind it.
