https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/994675.The_Mystery_of_the_Missing_Man
The children are home again, this time for Easter break, and Fatty to everyone’s surprise is slimming (or attempting to slim, at any rate) for he has been selected for the tennis team at school and while he can hit his shots, running around the court with his current weight isn’t the easiest of things.
Meanwhile the Trottevilles have visitors, a friend of Mr Trotteville, Mr Tolling a coleopterist is in Peterswood for a conference and brings along his daughter Eunice who turns out to be the one person Fatty can’t manage to get the better of.
مطابقة لقصص المغامرون الخمسة ...
unexpected as always.
It was a thumbs-up story.
I was a voracious reader as a child having entire series of "The Baby Sitter's Club", "Sweet Valley Kids", and "Sweet Valley High School", but nothing sparked my imagination like Enid Blyton.
I would recommend her to anyone and everyone who liked reading and asked what I was reading.
The way her short stories sparked my imagination impacted me more than I let on.
They were parables like Disney animated movies in printed words and I would get lost in them for hours until my mother would call me for dinner.
I would put Enid Blyton to the level of Roald Dahl and Dr. Suess.
the best of detective stories
Fatty is the best!!! There's nothing he can't do! But in this book he finally meets his match in Eunice and it's hilarious! Mystery, laugh out loud moments, delicious teas, - this has it all!
It is a great read with a spooky mystery that hooks you in. This book has a lot of suspense.
"Misteri Penyamar Ulung" merupakan salah satu karya Enid Blyton yang terbaik, kalau gak salah saya baru baca buku ini sekitar tahun 2004 dan langsung saja Enid Blyton menjadi pengarang novel favorit saya ^_^.ceritanya tentang Fatty, Pip, Larry, Desy dan Beth yang berusaha membantu Komisaris Jenk menemukan seorang buronan berbahaya yang berhasil kabur dari tahanan, mereka sudah tahu ciri - ciri buronan itu diantaranya berupa bekas luka di atas bibir, tulang-tulang tangan yang bertonjolan, tinggi sedang, rambut hitam berdasarkan foto-foto dan keterangan yang diberikan komisaris Jenk, hanya saja ada sedikit kesulitan yaitu buronan yang mereka cari sangat mahir menyamar jadi akan sangat sulit menemukannya.
I suppose it is for kids where its lots of suspense for them and stuff and I'm more in the teens category.
Anyway, what I liked about it, goes for the series, is that although very repetitive throughout the book, for example like waiting for Fatty to come and then thinking he's in disguise or meeting Goon at the start and make a fool of him and that it's nearly always Fatty who goes "Aha got who did it" it's still funny.
And although suspense lacks, supposedly not for teens.
I am enjoying re-reading my favourite Enid Blyton series 40 years on.
I note that their home of Peterswood is near Marlow but the the real Peterswood is actually near Harlow.
The real life places of Maidenhead and Bucks also get mentioned.
Fatty's running in 1956 is referred to as 'cross country running' but on page 70 his action is described as 'jog-jog-jog, jog-jog-jog', this before the term jogging was in popular use I think?
As always Enid Blyton throws in one or two challenging words to her young (and not so young) readers.
Fatty unexpectedly plays the role of the villain in this one, at least for a while. Inspector Jenks has grown to trust Fatty and the others, and lets them in on the mystery early, so they set off at once. They can't seem to find the missing man though, just a dirty old woman and her grown up children. How will they solve this mystery? And will they be able to with that horrible girl tagging along? Find out for yourself! :)
This mystery is about an escaped prisoner .It was a mystery because nobody knew the whereabouts of the escaped .I liked it because I was curious to know the whereabouts of the escaped prisoner.The part I liked was when one of the character asked a stupid question to another character.I liked that part because it was funny.
This book is really very nice. It is about 5 people and a dog. They are very good at solving mystreies. They always solve the mystrey before the village police man, Mr Goon. If you want to read, it would be better to start reading from book no.1.(It would be better)
Ma tu guarda! Ho trovato questo libro per caso al supermercato, e mi sono ricordato di quello che fu il mio primo 'giallo per ragazzi' in assoluto, prima ancora della collana Mondadori. Faceva parte di questa serie, che penso non sia stata tradotta tutta in italiano.
Received a slip case o'mystery of ... books when i was a child. Loved Enid Blyton - but this range of books seems less avaiable now than the secret seven and famous five type. Watched those ones on the telly but couldn't get into the books
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
Read this as part of a German 3-story compilation of Enid Blyton's Five Found-Outers and a Dog. I still have that thing somwhere.
seri pasukan mau tahu sukses membangun imajinasi masa kecil saya.tipikal buku yang harus dibaca oleh anak saya kelak :D
Ah, masa kecil...
Just remembered that I've read it back in don't-even-remember-which-year...I guess it was the 1st book I've read by myself.
70 - 2015
I don't think this book is good enough 'cause in this series Fatty just too slow to realize that Mrs. Fangio is the one he was looking for, geez but I still love this book tho.
Ini kisah detektif yang pertama kali bisa saya tebak!
