https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/724666.Nine_Tomorrows
Ingenioasă, oarecum înspăimântătoare și scrisă cu un fantastic simț al anticipației, Întrebarea finală e sclipitoare nu atât prin personaje cât mai ales prin ideile atât de complex disecate în câteva sute de pagini - inteligența artificială și relația ei cu umanitatea, expansiunea oamenilor printre stele, evoluția și sfârșitul Universului.Fabulous job, Mr. Asimov, just FABULOUS!Materia şi energia se sfârşiseră, iar o dată cu ele spaţiul şi timpul.
Chiar şi AC exista numai pentru acea ultimă întrebare, la care nu găsise încă răspuns, din clipa când, cu zece trilioane de ani în urmă, un tehnician pe jumătate beat o adresase unui calculator care, prin comparaţie cu AC, se găsea cu mult mai departe decât fusese omul faţă de Om.
I devoured this little but mighty short story collection! It amazes me at how much Asimov can pack into such a small amount of space. He continues to blow me away with his thoughtful, critical, complex science fiction. I wanted more than just the nine "tomorrows!" Favorites: The Gentle Vultures, The Ugly Little Boy & The Last Question (which I have previously read & loved!)
One of these 500 volumes, "Nine Tomorrows," is a collection of short stories that Doc Ike first had published in various magazines during the period July '56 to November '58.
As the title suggests, all nine tales deal with possible futures that may face mankind, and all feature the wit, erudition and clarity that are the hallmarks of every Asimov story/novel that I've ever read.
A way-out surprise ending caps off another very clever Asimov short story.
And then there's "The Last Question," in which Asimov theorizes on nothing less than the end of the universe 10 trillion years in the future...and what might happen after that.
"Two nights ago I really wanted to read a book before bed, but it was late, and I knew that I would end up reading until all hours of the morning and regret it the next day.
Last night I finished reading this book, and as can be expected, it was an engaging read, with each short story providing a different insight into how (in some cases, minor and insignificant) actions and events of now might evolve into the future.
Asimov also explores his (apparent) favorite social science theme of societies where the actions of individuals or the whole can be predicted through mathematical theory.
I liked the fact that he did not show the world as having this perfectly rose colored future.
Maybe it was due to the cold war.
Whatever the reason it reflected the times in which I lived and life sure as heck was not perfect.
There were great things like computers, electronics and landings on the moon.
There were terrible thing like horrible poverty, war and racism.
That was life for all of history.
This book contained stories about people, in the future yes but nevertheless stories about what might happen with new and improbable technology in the hands of unchanging man.
Didn't put a lot of stock into this book simply because they were short stories - but I have never been more wrong.
Asimov, god of scifi, managed to remain thought provoking in a limited amount of space and really raised a ton of valid questions about out actions today.
'The Last Question' story was reread about three times by me.
If you're too nervous to begin the Foundation series start small with this book, or at least read 'The Ugly Boy' short story.
All in all it was a lovely read.
These stories prove the greatness of Isaac Asimov. He successfully predicted supercomputers, downloading, scanners and more. And even if you don't acknowledge his foresight, you can't deny these are excellent stories. In particular, the last two tales tug at your heart strings and blow your mind (not necessarily in that order). Asimov deserves his place in history as one of science fiction's great prophets and storytellers.
আজিমভের উপনযাসের চেয়ে ছোটো গলপ, বৃদধবয়সের চেয়ে যৌবনের লেখা, আমার বযকতিগতভাবে বেশি ভালো লাগে।আজিমভরে আমি কীভাবে দেখি বলতে পারবো না। তার অনেক গলপ এতবার পড়া, এতবার, অনেক গলপ আবার পড়া কী না মনে করতে পারি না।যেমন এই বইয়ের এনটরপির গলপটা, আমি মানুষেরে শোনাইছিই নিদেনপকষে অরধশতবার। আবার পেশাগত দায়বদধতার গলপটা, কোনোভাবেই আগে পড়া বলে মনে হচছে না।আজিমভের অনেক সমসযা, একে ত সেনসরিং(এই বইটারই, বেনাপোল বনদর নিয়ে যেটা), তার কিছু পরেডিকটেবল বযাপার আছে - আরো বোঝা যায় যেহেতু তার লেখার পরিমাণ ভুড়ি ভুড়ি, আড়ষটতা থাকে
আজিমভের উপন্যাসের চেয়ে ছোটো গল্প, বৃদ্ধবয়সের চেয়ে যৌবনের লেখা, আমার ব্যক্তিগতভাবে বেশি ভালো লাগে।আজি
This truly fits the actual hard core definition of scifi because science is at the heart of most of it.
I am not longer a fan of Asimov's writings, but you can see where so many of today's scifi tales started--with authors like this.
Unlike Jules Verne, Asimov wasn't as good at predicting future technology (people were using teaching tapes 4 millenia from now, for example) and I do stumble over that, but not why I don't care much for his writing.So, no summary, after all it's short stories, but they are all set in the future from his time, and have the feel of classic scifi.
Such an incredible collection of short stories. My favourite was The Ugly Little Boy. So heartbreaking :( What was amazing (and terrifying), was how realistic all of these scenarios were. So thought provoking. 100% recommend.
Consisting of nine short stories, Asimov writes in a way that was incredibly inventive for his time. Not all of the stories are equal in quality, but the ones that are great are truly great. A good use of time for fans of older science fiction, and not too hard to breeze through in a week or so.
A good short story collection from Isaac Asimov. Favourites:The Feeling of PowerThe Gentle VulturesThe Ugly Little Boy
A collection of nine short-stories,  TALES OF THE NEAR FUTURE , by Isaac Asimov the prolific writer/editor of more than 500 books and professor of biochemistry at Boston University. As one of the "Big Three" SF writers of his time he was published in 9 of the 10 major categories of the Dewey Decimal Classification. Has with many writer this collection is made up of stories that were all originally published in science fiction magazine between 1956 and 1958.Profession (1957) - 4 STARS: Earth of t
(hide spoiler)] So it ends with a good bit of social satire, which parallels the invention of the A-Bomb.The Dying Night (1956) [part of the Wendell Urth series] - 3 STARS: Three astronomers, who have been working off world meet for the first time in ten years at a convention on Earth.
(hide spoiler)] we end with a good bit of social satire.All the Troubles of the World [part of the Multivac series] (1958) - 3 STARS: Joseph Manners is a man accused of a future crime...
The problem stems from the fact that writing books and being a biochemist are two very, very different things.
Now, now, don’t start spitting at me, many men (and women) of science have written good novels, but it’s much harder to do for them.
Art requires, and is pretty much all about, emotion, feeling, and intuition.
I, Robot is a pretty good book.
It’s when Asimov is writing about some weird robot, on some weird world, and making it relatable, and deep, that I care.
Yes, even in I, Robot, the writing can be pretty stiff, but it’s more excusable in that book than in this one.
Nagu juba päris paljude varem eesti keeles ilmunud, võib öelda et krestomaatiliste, klassikaliste ulmejuttudega, selgub siingi ebameeldiv tõsiasi, et ammusel ja kaugel vene ajal tõlgitud ja ilmunud lugu ongi parim mis sest portsust võtta.
Nende tulevik on meile juba ammu minevik, ja noh, ammu teada tõsiasi et tuleviku prognoosimisel on ulmekirjanikud ühed kehvemad oraaklid.
Aga üldiselt, hingekraapivale neanderthali poisikese ajast väljakiskumisele ei saa miskit vastu, kui ülejäänud lood panevad paremal juhul õlgu kehitama, siis "Inetu poisike" lükkab emoskaala kohe punasesse...Soovitan kasvõi sellesama ainsa loo pärast kuigi kui juba lugeda eks siis võib ka nende teistega tutvuda.
Voici quelques aperçus étonnants sur les " futurs probables " qui attendent notre humanité. Tous les ennuis du monde est l'histoire tragique d'un ordinateur géant, Multivac, qui, doué d'une puissance intellectuelle illimitée, découvre un jour la " difficulté d'être ". L'affreux petit garçon raconte comment un jeune néandertalien arraché à notre préhistoire est devenu le cobaye d'une impitoyable expérience scientifique. Avec un mélange inimitable d'humour et de réalisme, combinant la science et la fantaisie, Asimov parvient magistralement dans ce recueil de neuf récits, désormais classique, à nous dévoiler l'imprévisible.http://www.amazon.fr/Lavenir-commence-demain-Isaac-Asimov/dp/226618377X
The nine stories in this collection are simply gems.
Each story is enjoyable.
One aspect of these stories that I liked is that the stories do not involve war or violent conflict that we have come accustomed to in the majority of contemporary scifi & fantasy movies and stories.
The crux of the stories are relationships between humans or humans and technology.
A few examples are the re-discovery of math by hand; that is, on paper & pencil, that might give men an advantage over computer driven missiles; how an advanced Earth identifies creative geniuses; and, what happens when one letter of a person's name is changed.

Rounds up to a 4-star, we'll say. Some weaker points that reminded me of my disappointment in "Pebble in the Sky" but lots more good sci-fi! Very enjoyable! I think the short-story length suits Asimov very well, as he seems able to call up decent characters and play them out well in brief stints. I loved the implied philosophy in many of the pieces and he surprised me by doing a couple sci-fi/mystery genre weaves that were both amusing and satisfying. I'm really hoping that "Stars, Like Dust" will be at least as good as this one...
Not all the stories in this volume are five-star standard - some are better than others - but it still gets a five-star rating from me for 'Profession' alone. An inspiring tale that has stuck with me for years and gets timelier as technology races along.
Not the first time I've read this but guess it has been awhile. It holds up at least as well as other Asimov collections, with a couple duds and some absolute classics like Marsport and all things Multivac.
La segunda idea es que el futuro y todos los destinos humanos son predecibles, solamente que hay miles, millones de variables y estímulos que influyen en nuestro destino y futuro; pero si existiera alguna máquina lo suficientemente poderosa y capaz para conocer TODOS los detalles de cada persona en la humanidad, la máquina podría predecir el destino de la persona con un alta probabilidad de acertar (siguiendo las tradiciones medievales, en algunas historias en vez de máquinas superpotentes y poderosas, Asimov recurre a diablitos, extraterrestres y otros seres sobrenaturales).El siguiente cuento, “Todos los males del mundo” (“All the troubles in the world” - Todos los problemas del mundo).
Part two of "The Complete Stories, Volume 1." I was disheartened after the strange stories in the first part of that collection, but that all changed the moment I read "Profession." That might be favorite short story ever, right up there with the I, Robot stories.
"All the Troubles of the World" is the first Multivac story I ever read, and it is unforgettable.
If you want to know why Asimov is famous for is short stories, read this collection.
Asimov, like most early sci-fi authors, has a tendency to focus more on concepts and actions and less on character building and emotions.
Though high concept was definitely present, and the characters still followed the stereotypes of that era, this story was an emotional journey.
I just realized that I also have the novel of the same name that is an expansion of this story and co-authored by Asimov and Silverberg.
I am excited to explore this journey in more depth.I recommend this book to anyone interested in sci-fi's earlier days, or anyone that enjoys tripping on concepts previously unthought of.
Well, when you’re walking around the streets and pause from contemplating brick-jacking some chump do you ever think, ‘Jesus Christ, our galaxy is going to ‘crash’ into another at some distant point in time, how absurd would that approaching celestial sh!t be in the night sky?’, or ‘Aww sh!t, historical evidence and the known contents of our solar system tend to suggest some rather large chunk of sh!t is headed to earth at some point, that blows’, or perhaps even woefully lament, ‘Should I really bring a child into this world, full knowing that one day the goddam moon is taking off on us, and sure, we’ll probably evolve along with the infinitesimal changes, but can I live knowing I’m forcing my own future generations to decide if they really want to rear young on a world without a soothing satellite?’ Oh, you don’t even think about that, huh?

Võiksin siia kirjutada pika lõigu sellest, kuidas Asimov on üks mu lemmikkirjanikke, ent olen seda juba tüütuseni korranud. Nii et ütlen lihtsalt, et taaskord oli tegu väga hea kogumikuga suurepäraselt autorilt. Eks muidugi oli lugusid, mis kõnetasid rohkem ja neid, mis vähem. Asimovi-skaalas võiks hindeks olla ka 4/5, ent suures pildis on kogumik väga head hinnet väärt. Kuna suure tõenäosusega haaran selle kunagi tulevikuks ka uuesti kätte, siis hetkel oleks minu lugude paremusjärjestus: 1. Amet2. Kirjutage mu nimi S-iga3. Kõik maailma mured4. Inetu poisike5. Võimutunne6. Viimane küsimus7. Hellad raisakotkad8. Olen Marsportis ilma Hildata9. Surelik öö
if you've ever held a girl in your arms at 0.4 gees, you need no explanation. If you haven't, explanations will do no good. I'm also sorry for you.THERE IS INSUFFICIENT DATA FOR A MEANINGFUL ANSWERAnd Stasis was punctured and the room was empty.
I re-read this book from my childhood for the sake of the Neanderthal story, "The Ugly Child." Asimov is mostly diverting through cleverness, but he showed in this story that he could be affective as well.
4.5 out of 5
