https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70134.Towards_a_New_Architecture
When I was in architecture school in England, Corb, as we called him, was the master (and Alvar Aalto the disciple).
He stated the case for modern architecture so convincingly that it seemed the only possible altenative.
And he taught me, and a generation of architecture students, 'the discipline of the route.' Buildings, as he taught us, are not experienced whole, but as a series of experiences.
Orchestrating those, and making sure that the visitor is always oriented to the whole, is the basic given of good architecture, like writing a grammatical sentence is a given for a good writer.
Most architecture since then either follows its dictates or rebels against them.
I don't like the way Le Corbusier writes, but this book is epic. As a student of architecture I learned a lot from this book, mostly about the five principles of Modern Architecture. It isn't a boring book, but you have to be careful to interpretate some things he writes. It is definetly a must-read.
I'm not a student of architecture by any means, but Corbu is a visionary. Perhaps this is why his ideas about architecture and society may seem either funny/crazy or scarily authoritarian to us today. Writing during the 20's he couldn't have known about Hitler or Stalin and the danger of trying to create a literal utopia. He accurately reflects the more optimistic sensibilities of the time. A recommendation: Read this one and then Jane Jacobs "The Death and Life of Great American Cities" for a great introduction to major themes of twentieth century architecture and/or city planning.
must read for architects
OK, this is a loaded review: this book and its author are my betes noir (excuse my nonexistent/incorrect French...the least revenge I can have...) - facile and mystifyingly still persuasive to generation after generation of architecture students and True Believers, despite the empirical evidence of the damage it wrought and the dubious actual quality of the man's work (this review being by someone who worked, practically lived, in the Carpenter Center for four years...and that building, unlike any other by Corbusier, WAS beautifully executed thanks to Josep Lluis Sert [exec.
a bit esoteric and socialist for my taste, but i spose i can still appreciate what Corbu is about.
in a very broad sense, this manifesto is his urge to keep the pace of architecture at the pace of the rest of society's advancements.
where we differ begins with this statement:"The house is a machine for living in."other themes are things like being true to the time and purpose for which you are designing, and creating the new rather than making surface copies of the old.it's a bit of a dry read, but if you're into architecture at all, Le Corbusier is a must
Much of what Le Corbusier advocates for in this book is terrific, though I wonder if he actually believed his own words. In practice, he fits the mold of a conventional engineer, while the prose of this work is written with lofty, creative, artistic sentiments. Le Corbusier's philosophy was largely detrimental, not beneficial, for society. His super blocks created isolated ghettos, his planning utopias ultimately influenced urban renewal horrors. Ironically, his actions were at odds with his words in this book, and consequently comes off as disingenuous and superficial, though much of the ideas are notable.
The writing is pretty airy, allowing thoughts to navigate freely around the points Corb makes like traveling through big massive superhighways as overstated as the ALL CAPS he sometimes chooses to hammer as if he were writing an angry streak on a comments board.During this journey I had to revisit Anna Chave's essay on the rhetoric of power in minimalism—her equation of Minimalism's masculine power with the classical Doric reminded me of Corb's love of the Parthenon, a monument which made many appearances throughout this work (that, and American grain elevators...).
Entire cities will have to be reconstructed!Back to Chave's essay on minimalism—Chave mentions that Barbara Rose and Lucy Lippard said of Minimalism that it was a categorical refusal of the humanist mission of art: "a negative denial and renunciation [...] a rejective art." I understand Corb's New Architecture in very much the same way.
I read this book for a class assignment, I was looking forward to it because Le Corbusier is the biggest influence of the modern era of architecture, his principles are still up to date and architects all around the world still learn and apply his theories today (though I am not sure they should).
I found interesting to learn his reasonings for sustaning his Principles of Architecture,and for a thorough understanding I recommend also reading: The Athens Charter where his influence is noticeable on the statements about city planning.Apart form reading this and other books of his, I think it is much interesting and insightful to study his projects (real and theoretical) because they demonstrate how possible (or not) it was for Le Corbusier to stick to his principle and make them work (most of them didn't).
Lecorbusier, one of the founding fathers of the modernist movement, puts forward his arguments for society's embracing the 'mass production spirit'.
This book is full of innovative designs which unfortunately inspired poor implementations (high-rise poor areas all over the place).
however, that says more against society's treatment of the lower classes than against the value of lecorbusier's ideas entering the public domain.
"You employ stone, wood and concrete, and with these materials you build houses and palaces. That is construction. Ingenuity is at work.But suddenly you touch my heart, you do me good, I am happy and I say: "This is beautiful." That is Architecture. Art enters in."
I hate his eyesore buildings that I've been forced to look at in numerous areas of the planet, and I really, really hate his ideas.
Meanwhile, he also argued that the objective of architecture is to create happiness for its inhabitants while striving to remain relevant to its building function.
This proves that Le Corbusier is not just a mere modernist of his time, his radical functional approach to architecture has rendered the notion of "sense of place" almost obsolete.
So, what is the zeitgeist of our era, which many events and inventions have taken place long after Le Corbusier's departure from this world?Le Corbusier concluded by asking the policy makers of his time to choose between architecture or revolution.
Inherently, architecture has a built-in element of revolution to the Chinese since it involves a 'long march'.
I'm giving this book a four star rating, not because it is such good reading, but because it and the ideas of Swiss architect Le Corbusier were so influential in making the world as we know it.
His model of separation of work and residential sectors of cities, with vehicular traffic on the edges was followed all over the world for much of the 20th century.
Read the book, and then think about what a mess it has brought about.
A good, yet challenging read.
The author's style is very cryptic, expressive, impulsive.
Keep in mind the historical context when reading this, since this 'manifesto' was a reaction to industrialisation and urban overpopulation in the early 1900s.
This is a founding stone of modern architecture, and will reveal the newly suggested connection to engineering and our perception of beauty.
I saw this as ONE way to approach spatial design, surely it is a bit uncompromising in how it tries to advocate purely for a new direction and leave the old architecture as we knew it then behind.
This book is a mandatory read if you're interested in the history of architecture. Corbusier's writing can be dense, and he tends to wax poetically, but the ideas contained within are fundamental to modernism. Certainly, some of his ideas are daaaaaated and would no longer hold up in modern planning discourse, but it's an interesting look into the optimism of mid century modernists (I mean, a whole city built on piloti!?).
I enjoyed reading this book. I am a lover of art and architecture, of course. This book took me back to my college days when I took a class called ART AND ARCHITECTURE (as if the two are not one and the same). I enjoyed the time spent reading and remembering my former experiences.My son is now an artist who works in the field of architecture.
Kniha, která byla na mě příliš náročná (spíš jde o filozofickou knihu) a podle mě ji ocením až později, kdy budu architektuře lépe rozumnět a chápat ji. Není divu, že ji milují studenti architektury, kteří tím vlastně žijí a někteří i podobným jazykem dokonce i mluví. Já se k tomu nejdříve budu muset dopracovat.
An architecture student's must-read. While many proposals are considered obsolete, the book introduces a lot of the key ideas and issues that architects must confront. This book is also constantly reference throughout the discipline.
Modernist architecture's flagship text; btw, when you become the boss, you would be able to write in such a discursive, fractured and repetitive style without being penalized by painful grad students and perhaps some common readers that tried to grasp your idea.
Le Corbusier was a revolutionary architect, but not enough emphasis is placed on the harm his rhetoric has caused and continues to cause the profession of architecture and our cities. Perhaps he ended up doing more harm than good.
”Nämä kaksi vaatimatonta, kaarevaa linjaa sulautuvat toisiinsa hengellisen mekaniikan täydellisessä rattaistossa ja synnyttävät arkkitehtuurin puhdasta ja yksinkertaista kauneutta.” Le CorbusierLisää kirjoitin blogiini:https://kosminenk.wordpress.com/2017/...
Hvað sem fólki kann að finnast, þá er þetta byltingarkenndur texti skrifaður af manni sem var afskaplega áhugaverður. Svo mikið af issues. Greyið.
Manifesto dell'Esprit Nouveau.
还记得的就是建筑五要素视而不见的美标准化成批生产住宅体块和表面，简单几何图形的美雅典卫城
Esoteric book filled with modern ideas and a frustration that architecture has not been able to keep up with the pace of technological advancement.
I like to think his architecture is a response to war, he hated the opulence of it.Even though he might not be the greatest writer, nor a great translator was employed, the ideas were kinda clear, and kinda vague.
He compared the functional designs of airplanes and cars to the houses they were building during his time.
A house should be a machine for living, it should be functional and free-flowing.Perhaps the most important of his five points of architecture is the free plan.
In this text LeCorb talks about the modern age of capitalist consummerism and the new kind of life that this revolution in industry has created.
The strange thing is - and the apparent contradiction in this text - is that LeCorb is always looking back to previous styles by talking about the perfection created by greek and roman architecture.
He talks about universal truths regarding space and form and light in a way which is consistant with a modernist rhetoric but simply doesn't stand up in a post-modern deconstruction.
Le Corbusier writes of the “machine age” much like someone now might write of the “information age”.
But he is somewhat poetic, repetitive and I would not be surprised if Tom Peters (ex-Harvard innovation guru) adopted something of Le Corbusier's style.
While many of the architect's ideas were controversial, and may not have functioned as desired, he foresaw many of the things that are happening today in terms of construction materials.
Although I do not doubt that the way these materials have been used meet the "cheapness" but not necessarily the "good work" he envisaged (p.
My favourite quote: "There is no such thing as primitive man.
Le Corbusier is a Swiss-born French architect, artist, and writer who had a profound impact on architecture as a field of practice and a sphere of intellectual discourse.
The book is akin to a photo essay where he articulates his his fascination with the modern world.
His contributions to the field of architecture and city design have been far reaching.
Which his innovative design concepts are still revered by many architects today, his contribution to urbanism, to how modern cities ought to be thought of and design, has been much less popular.
Whew, in hindsight, thank heavens Paris didn't listen to Le Corbusier and tear down huge sections of the city and put up "Towers" of reinforced concrete to create mass produced houses for the people as he had planned.
And other ideas like, flat roofs, with kitchens and gardens on top of the house just didn't work.
However, his sage advice in 1920s like "demand a vacuum cleaner" and "demand walls of light and really large living rooms" do still work (at least in some climates).
He liked the clean lines of the new ships, cars, and airplanes, and hated Victorian stuff, Roman architecture and NYC street layout.
