https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1108124._Ponniyin_Selvan_
Its my all time favorite. I have read this book about 15 times and would read it even more times in my life... I have read this putting myself in the place of 1. வநதியததேவன2. பூஙகுழலி3. குநதவை4. ஆழவாரககடியான5. அருளமொழிவரமன6. நநதினி  and moreThe characters I like the most is 1. வநதியததேவன2. பூஙகுழலி3. கரிகாலன4. நநதினி.5. குநதவை I have seen me in every one of these characters and thats the victory of this novel as far as I can see it.
Its my all time favorite. I have read this book about 15 times and would read it even more times in my life... I have read this putting myself in the place of 1. வந்தியத்தேவன்2. பூங்குழலி3. குந்தவை4. ஆழ்வார்க்கடியான்5. அருள்மொழிவர்மன்6. நந்தினி  and moreThe characters I like the most is 1. வந்தியத்தேவன்2. பூங்குழலி3. கரிகாலன்4. நந்தினி.5. குந்தவை I have seen me in every one of these characters and thats the victory of this novel as far as I can see it.
தமிழின மிக சிறநத வரலாறறு நாவலகளில மிகவும முககியததுவம வாயநதது. இநத புததகம படிதத பிறகு தஞசாவூர மறறும இலஙகை போய ஒரு முறை சுறறி பாரகக வேணடும எனறு கடடாயம அனைவருககும தோனறும. வநதியததேவன, குநதவை, ராஜா ராஜா சோழன, பழுவேடடரையர, நநதினி, ஆழவாரககடியான அனைவரையும ஒரு முறையாவது பாரகக வேணடும எனறு ஆவல உணடாகும உணமை நிகழவுகளோடு அஙகஙகு கதை சேரதது கலகி பிணைததிருககும இககாவியம எனறும படிததவர அனைவர மனதிலும வாழும. இககாவியததை நான எனறும அனைவருககும பரிநதுரைபபேன.
தமிழின் மிக சிறந்த வரலாற்று நாவல்களில் மிகவும் முக்கியத்துவம் வாய்ந்தது. இந்த புத்தகம் படித்த பிறகு தஞ்சாவூர் மற்றும் இலங்கை போய் ஒரு முறை சுற்றி பார்க்க வேண்டும் என்று கட்டாயம் அனைவருக்கும் தோன்றும். வந்தியத்தேவன், குந்தவை, ராஜா ராஜா சோழன், பழுவேட்டரையர், நந்தினி, ஆழ்வார்க்கடியான் அனைவரையும் ஒரு முறையாவது பார்க்க வேண்டும் என்று ஆவல் உண்டாகும் உண்மை நிகழ்வுகளோடு அங்கங்கு கதை சேர்த்து கல்கி பிணைத்திருக்கும் இக்காவியம் என்றும் படித்தவர் அனைவர் மனதிலும் வாழும். இக்காவியத்தை நான் என்றும் அனைவருக்கும் பரிந்துரைப்பேன்.
I would say, I have been living a life with the kings, the princes, the warriors and the other characters of Ponniyin Selvan from the day I started reading the novel.
The novel narrates the story of the Chozhas and their beautiful lives in the 11th century.Kalki is the main reason I loved the book.
And fifth volume, the most interesting one, it took me a very short time to complete compared to other books, despite fifth being the longest of all.
I have already added character list to the main Ponniyin Selvan page and I have decided to add individual pages for each Volume and characters of the novel.
Ponniyin Selvan is a Tamil historical fiction novel written by Kalki based on real events.
The story is based in the 11th century Tamil empire of the legendary Cholas (Chozhas), with the great Raja Raja Chola being one of the characters.
Most of the times I felt as if I was living among the characters and I am planning to visit the places that are mentioned in the book.
Such an enchanting story entwined with real history would be a delight to see on screen!If you can read Tamil then don’t miss this book.
கலகி ஒவவொரு முறையும தஞசையைபபறறி வரணிககும பொழுதெலலாம...கண முனனே நான சுறறிய இடஙகள தோனறும.முதல அததியாயம , ஆடி பெருககுடன துவஙகும.நான சிறு வயதில ஆடிபபெருககிறகு ஆறறில பூஜை பொருடகளை விடட ஞாபகம தொடடுப போகும. நதிகள,நதியோற மரஙகள பறறி வரும பொழுதெலலாம கரூர வழியே தஞசை வரும மாரகம தான நினைவிறகு வரும.கதையில முககியமான வநதியதேவன,சோழ நாடடின வளமையைப பாரதது வரணிககும பொழுது, திருவாரூர செலலும சாலை, அதுவும , அநத பசசை போரவை போறறிககொணடு அழகாய சிரிககும வயல வரபபுகள தான நமது கணமுனனே வரும.நாயகன தஞசையை விடடு வெளியில செனறு மீண
நதிகள்,நதியோற மரங்கள் பற்றி வரும் பொழுதெல்லாம் கரூர் வழியே தஞ்சை வரும் மார்கம் தான் நினைவிற்கு வரும்.கதையில் முக்கியமான வந்தியதேவன்,சோழ நாட்டின் வளமையைப் பார்த்து வர்ணிக்கும் பொழுது, திருவாரூர் செல்லும் சாலை, அதுவும் , அந்த பச்சை போர்வை போற்றிக்கொண்டு அழகாய் சிரிக்கும் வயல் வர‌ப்புகள் தான் நமது கண்முன்னே வரும்.நாயகன் தஞ்சையை விட்டு வெளியில் சென்று மீண்டும் ஊருக்குள் வரும் போது , தூரத்திலிருந்து ரசிக்கும் காட்சி , மாரியம்மன் கோவில் சாலையிலிருந்து நான் பார்த்த‌ பெரிய கோவிலை நினைவிற்குக் கொண்டு வரும்.ரவிதாசனின் வில்லத்தனம்,நந்தினியின் சதித்திட்டம்,குந்தவையின் அரசியல் முடிவுகள்,சுந்தர சோழனின் த‌விப்பு,பழுவுடையாரின் வீரம்,கரிகாலனின் மனக்குழப்பம்,சிதம்பர இளவர‌சனின் துரோகம்,படகோட்டும் பூங்குழலி,ஊமைராணியின் தியாகம் போன்றவை இன்னும் என் நினைவிற்குள் (கதாபாத்திரங்கள்) சுற்றிக் கொண்டு தான் இருக்கிறது.கடம்பூர் மாளிகை(நீடாமங்கலம் பக்கத்தில் உள்ள கடம்பூரா?),சிதம்பரம் கோவில் ,நாகப்பட்டினம் புத்தமடம்,உறையூர்,இலங்கை...
http://idaivaellai.blogspot.in/2012/0...)
This book is just amazing. It has everything in it. It gives one hell of a roller coaster ride where you can come across art, history, philosophy and more. You will end up loving all the characters whether its protagonist or antagonist. Kalki's words and use of language is just mind blowing. I wonder how he had such an amazing knowledge about history, literature, psychology etc., This is my first book that I read in my Tamil Language and I am very much happy about it.
Best book I have ever read. All tamils please read this book atleast once
ஆதி அநதமிலலாத கால வெளளததில கறபனை ஓடததில ஏறி நமமுடன சிறிது நேரம பிரயாணம செயயுமாறு நேயரகளை அழைககிறோம.When I read this first line and subsequently a chapter of this epic in Tamizh, I immediately realised how lame I had been to read the English translation. The greatness of the Tamizh culture and heritage and the awe-inspiring dynasties that ruled over Tamil Nadu in the 10th century form the very core of this book, and it is almost unjust to have not read it in Tamil. The translation by Karthik Nara
The greatness of the Tamizh culture and heritage and the awe-inspiring dynasties that ruled over Tamil Nadu in the 10th century form the very core of this book, and it is almost unjust to have not read it in Tamil.
It paints the greatness and the prosperity of the Chozha empire to such detail that one is completely transported to that era while reading the book and yearns to get back there long after completing it.
However the attempt is laudable, more so the intent to reach the greatness of the Chozha dynasty and such an interesting novel to the Tamil illiterate.
Excellent ...
First read it to understand the plot.
Sencond time, for deeper plot understandingThird time, read it completely with narrations of even silliest things.
Fourth time and subsequent times, to answer your doubts and for the happiness that this book provides you.
How did the author taught me about Chola a branch of chola dynasty?
How did the author tell that there is no good or bad.
There are only views and actions based on views ?
I would have read many novels and will read many more.
However, nothing can even come closer to the experience I had when I read this.
Lot of information about the activities of various kings came from inscriptions like these as well as copper plates like the Anbil one.
The Thiruvalangadu copper plates state, “The Chozha people were very keen that after Sundara Chozhan, Arulmozhi Varman should ascend the throne and rule their country.
There is a wonderful active community in the orkut for this book.
Please do check it out .This book hasn’t been made in to movie yet, because of the budget constraint.
However, Kalaignar TV has taken initiative to make it as a mega serial.
“Marmadesam” Naga is directing the serial.
Good.. At the end of every chapter,there is a suspense.
I am not even a worthy person to write a review about the greatest historical novel I have ever read in both tamizh and english put together.
The story takes place during the time of political instability in the chola kingdom or to put it precisely the time before they discover about the impending threats to the kingdom.
I would say people who are interested in reading historical novels will definitely like this book.
I would advice you to read this book in tamil but people who don't know tamil can read the english translation of this book.
When I was pursuing my Master's degree at Government College of Technology, Coimbatore, it was happened to read Kalki's "PARTHIBAN KANAVU" (thanks for my room-mate a good reader then), ofcourse I started the novel by 7.10 pm as a short time pass until the dinner 7.30 pm.
Immediately I bought his other books, ponniyin selvan and sivagamiyin sabatham they are astounded then I switched to similar kind of novels and grew frantic in reading.
I don't want to review these three books (Parthiban Kanavu, Sivagamiyin Sabatham and Ponniyin Selvan)because these three books are such an extraordinary and exceptionally written in Tamil.
One of the best books in Tamil literature.
When I am about to buy this book, I had hesitation, Can I go ahead and buy because of the obvious fear, will I read 1500 or more pages of this book?
To my surprise, I completed the book over a weekend.The story of ancient Tamil kings and the politics that they have played to reach the throne is the crux.
Beautifully woven characters with very interesting narration.Anyone who is still thinking to read, please march ahead, you will definitely not be disappointed.
One of my most favorite books. Read all the 6 volumes about 3 times and I still cant get enough of it. I live in USA and whenever I miss my days in Pudukkottai(thats where I started reading this) I start reading a couple of pages from this. The characters are so well justified and every character is unique. My favorite is vandhiyathevan :-)
இலவசமாக பொனனியின செலவனை பதிவிறககம செயய https://www.dropbox.com/s/tdhazvuhghi...Welcome to Ponnyin Selvan Grouphttp://www.goodreads.com/group/show/1...The best Tamil Historical novel about Chola dynasty. Most of the story based on Archaeological findings, Ancient Tamil poems, Stone and brone inscriptions, the great Thanjai Periya kovil (Temple) built by the Great Raja Rajan Chola,and folks.No one can beat the story telling and presentation of this novel. Whenever the author introduce a character
இலவசமாக் பொன்னியின் செல்வனை பதிவிறக்கம் செய்ய https://www.dropbox.com/s/tdhazvuhghi...Welcome to Ponnyin Selvan Grouphttp://www.goodreads.com/group/show/1...The best Tamil Historical novel about Chola dynasty.
Most of the story based on Archaeological findings, Ancient Tamil poems, Stone and brone inscriptions, the great Thanjai Periya kovil (Temple) built by the Great Raja Rajan Chola,and folks.No one can beat the story telling and presentation of this novel.
So no more I'm reading the novel but I just start travel with it and can see what is happening in the story.Every book lovers and Tamil History lovers must read this novel at least once in their life time.
For the first 10 to 20 pages, i wondered why everybody likes this book. but after that, i gone mad about this ,I never felt like closing the book. i suggested to all of my friends. Basically i am from thanjavur (where the story belongs to), felt like how did i missed this till the time?
A spectacular novel on medieval cholas.
The characters on the other end of the spectrum are Vandiyathevar and Arulmozhivarmar - brave, chivalrous, witty & fun to be with.
The different perspectives around why Arulmozhivarmar is named 'Ponniyin Selvan' is fantastic.
The story also progresses as the different points of view flows in.
It consumes you like it consumed Kundhavai, Vanadhi, Poonkuzhali, Nandhini & Manimekalai :P There comes multiple points wherein the author compares his adorable women and they are sweet.
Like honey-sweet.
The women here are way progressive & revolutionary.
Such a women empowering & bold novel.
I am seriously out of words to describe this EPIC of a novel by the GREAT Amarar Kalki..!!
I'm so proud to be a Thamizhian..!!Reading this book took me to a whole new world where I saw myself with the characters of this book.My favourite charcters from this book are:1.
One thing I've learnt from reading this book is that everyone has a point of view and that we should not be judgemental about anyone.
And then there came a part where the author justifies (atleast from her point of view) her actions.This book also taught me to use my brain to its utmost.
The famous book among Tamil people and it is a good read too.
I got craze in this story because of my college friends, we used to call ourselves the characters from the book and play small drama at hostels.
But was not knowing why this story is important..then I started to read this book after graduation when I got a break before post-graduate admission.
it is because of this book, I got interested to know more about Tamil history, the joy of reading no one can express it in words.
This book is a treasure for Tamil people and has to be passed to future generations....
The ultimate journey of history - that's how this book should be termed.
From the boring lectures and yawns of classrooms, Kalki - the author developed a "class apart" for history with his own style of narration and vivid exemplifications.
Leave aside the story about Raja Raja, after whom the book is named - its the fascinating experience that the author has brought right in front of our faces while reading this book.
Anyone is certain to experience the "historic age path" when they read this book.This is THE BOOK that made me feel eternal happiness for having know the language TAMIL.
Easily the best book i have ever read so far. The way the author takes you through the 2000 pages is simply stunning. Practically glues you to the book. addictive, rich in characterization. The fact that this was actually a 1950 weekly magazine's serial that ran successfully for 3 years is overwhelming. I would have died out of anxiety to experience this epic novel in a weekly basis. Thanks to the awesome compilation, i am alive to tell the tale ! Man, there should have been a 'my best book' tag !PS - Vandiyathevan always lives :)
It took me months to wake myself out of Thanjai, Ilangai and basically out of the Ponniyin Selvan world. It was Fantasy as never experienced before. The characters are still alive even years after reading this master-piece. Thibika Shanmugam's illustrations brought the whole Chozhan dynasty to life. Poonkuzhali is one awesome lady and she has earned my admiration through out the novel. LOVED HER!!
One of the best novels which i read. Amazing description of the characters and perfect plot of the story.Arul Mozhi varman will wander around our mind and heart even after we completed this Epic. Not only him, Vanthiya thevan and many other characters will also capture some good quantity of flesh from our heart.One of the very few novels which i have planned to read it again.
Here we go!Finished reading this finally.Everybody in my family had already read it.The book lived to the hype it had created in me and made me realize the true genius of Kalki.If you ever want to name a book as "page turner",it is this one.A pure historical fiction...My sister had read this one more than 4 times when she was 18.Now I see why!
Ponniyin selvan is one of the finest historical fiction in tamil,you can't shelve this book in one genre has loads of everything - historical facts,romance,action,comedy,thriller....many of them tried this novel to cinema but could'nt,thats shows the scale of this masterpiece...A MUST READ!!!!!
Unbelievable novel. A masterpiece. Makes you want to go back by centuries and live in the Chola era. A rare gem of a novel. Must-read!!
Author Kalki has meticulously mixed the great history of Chola kingdom with an interesting fictional plot, which makes us involuntarily turn pages.
The story happens during medieval Chola period, under the rule of Sundara Cholan.
Few characters like Vandhiyathevan, Arulmozhivarman, Nandhini, Manimegalai, Kundhavai and Poongulali stay in your mind for long time.The story ends all of a sudden with many unresolved questions.
Overall Ponniyin Selvan will be a very good treat for history lovers.Note: Please do not try to read real history of Chola Dynasty before/while reading this book, because it might decrease the effect of some suspense in the plot.
This is the first time i read a book contains more than 500 pages.When I started this book I regretted most of the time thinking about what I have been doing my whole life without reading this book.First thing is I was totally into it.
The way they the author described the characters and the way story moves rapidly into our heart Wow no words describe that feel.
The most favorite character is Vandiyathevan as everbody knows.
The author brings back the reader 1000 years and it is the incredible thing about this book.
This book contains 2400 pages of enjoyable moments and tempting to read again.
I was amazed by his spectacular command over the Tamil language and his imaginations. His way of describing scenes would make us to feel as if it is happening just infront of our eyes. He had strained his muscles to make sure that he had not altered the untold history, thereby not making any hypothesis for certain incidents like Aditha Karikalan's murder.After finishing this book, we can feel that we have developed an affinity towards the language "Tamil", the Chola dynasty and the legacy left behind by them. In short, One of the remarkable political thrillers in 20th Century.
