https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46199.Letters_to_a_Young_Poet
‘Go into yourself and see how deep the place is from which your life flows.’Rainer Maria Rilke puts forth the question ‘must I write?’ in these letters from the great poet to the unknown Mr. Kappus.
It is a sort of minor-key beauty, spending much time navigating through the implications of solitude and painful soul-searching, yet it elevates the heart to such high levels and is sure to make anyone reach for a pen in order to try their own hand at poetry.‘We know little, but that we must trust in what is difficult is a certainty that will never abandon us,’ Rilke writes.
A dozen years out of school, after Rilke had achieved some fame as a poet, a young man wrote to him asking for advice about life and poetry.
It shall thoroughly change the love experience to the rebuilding of a relationship meant to be between two persons, no longer just between man and woman….The men, who today cannot yet feel it coming, shall be surprised and defeated by it.”“Do not allow yourself to be confused in your aloneness by the something within you that wishes to be released from it.
And if it should be affirmative, if it is given to you to respond to this serious question with a loud and simple 'I must, then construct your life according to this necessityRilke talks about different themes in the book, he mentions that one must try to make use of  'Irony'  in creative moments to get a grasp of life, other themes, which are explored in the book, are-  Solitude:Solitude, is essential if the Young Poet is to create work of both universal truth and lasting value.
This little book has been my companion for four years now, always half-finished, and it feels strange to finally remove the bookmark and to keep it aside.Read it with a forgiving bend.
Keep in mind that Rilke never wrote them with an intention to publish, it was mostly an attempt to convey a few truths to a fellow poet.
Read it in that spirit - If you read with critical intent, the magic of the book will be lost on you.My only complaint with the book is that it presents only one half of the conversation.
It would have been a wonderful piece if both the young poet's and Rilke's letters had been printed in succession.
But do not give in, request arguments, and act with this kind of attentiveness and consistency every single time, and the day will come when instead of being demolishers they will be among your best workers – perhaps the canniest of all those at work on the building of your life.
They are a glorious gift, a gospel of wonderful words which I will follow all the days of my life.Dear Reader,If there is one thing I would say to you, it is to caution you against immoderation, against lavish and excessive language.
Dear Mr Rilke, I am trying to keep your advice in mind but my heart is a busy, noisy, chattering place and it tells me to use five words instead of one, and long sentences rather than short ones.Dear Reader, Don't let yourself be controlled by irony, especially during uncreative moments.
— Rilke letters are inspirational - filled with wisdom -( jewels to writers)- and beauty.
I’m a reader - not a writer -and a complete newbie to the discovery of Rilke....but the things that stood out for me - ( advice for lack of a better word) - were lessons on ways to live a fulfilling, rich, honest, soulful life - a transformed life .......one without criticism ......value of solitude...value of God ...value of loveI know I simplified these letters from a brilliant man who died many years ago....but they are powerful speaking to our most authentic selves.
In which Rainer Maria Rilke, both mercilessly and mercifully, bashes me over the head with a baseball bat from the other side of the Great Whatever.
در حالی که بردبری کاملاً آمریکاییه و پر شور و انرژی.
ریلکه مدام به فرو رفتن در خود امر می کنه، می گه شاعری یعنی خلوت گزیدن و قطع کردن ارتباط با آدم های دیگه، و وسیع تر کردن دنیای درونی، و باید سال ها تجربۀ درونی کرد تا شاید ده بیست شعر خوب سرود.
در مقابل بردبری معتقد به مدام کار کردن و کار کردنه، و می گه حتی بدون فکر کردن و کاملاً مبتنی بر تداعی کلمات کار کنید، و با کار کردن مداومه که می تونید ارتقا پیدا کنید.
In Letters to a Young Poet, Rilke shows us, through a content of extreme sensitivity and acuity, the advice addressed to the young poet Franz Kappus who was hesitant to pursue his literary career.
The beauty and truth contained in this correspondence that covered ten letters, between 1903 and 1908, made this work become known worldwide.
Using its inherent simplicity, Rilke talks about solitude and what it holds of greatness and describes with immense wisdom facets of the inner life of the human being and portraits of feelings that plague him.
Franz Kappus, a few years after Rilke's death, decided to publish them as an important and special learning experience.
I always underline in books, either for the wise quotes that teach or the pure beauty of the passage.
Perhaps all the dragons in our lives are princesses who are only waiting to see us act, just once, with beauty and courage.
What lies left's a feeling fit for tears and joy alone, andsomber light it is.Your maudlin days do not astonish, formany a kindred of mine has sufferedthe same, and yet, goes on.
Sin was nota word allowed you said; what mattered waslife, and lived to love.In solitude and suspension flush, youcounseled attention paid to the soul ofself.
The words came after you, andwith less heart, but you would most agree.
There'slovely things in life, you said, you wrote, yousculpted deep in tears of crystalline.
I cannot return,save for scripting here.Rainer Maria Rilke, you wrote; Ifelt my heart would burst.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Published 2016 (Portuguese translation and afterword by José Miranda Justo).“Dieses vor allem: fragen Sie sich in der stillsten Stunde ihrer Nacht: ‘muss ich schreiben?’ Graben Sie in sich nach einer tiefen Antwort.
I could request any book I wanted, and the services of the Goethe library would provide me with it.
This gorgeous edition translated from German into Portuguese (bilingual edition), produced something worth having.
Apparently still lots remained to be said and written…If you're into German Literature, Rilke in particular, read the rest of this review elsewhere.
For him Art was what mattered most in life." Poetry Foundation (internal cites omitted).The Guardian in its review of the new and best English translation of this book in May 2011 said, "And how could one not be glad to have lived long enough to read lines such as these: 'To love is also good, for love is hard.
Notes collected     Rilke, the lonely German-language poet, but not really a German, rather an exile for 10 years,...possessor of nothing, but his language, shows a young man how a "masterpiece of art" can be accomplished and last for long.Paris 1903.It appears that Rilke had been approached by a poet asking for a critical view of his output. Yet, Rilke's standing was not critical, at all; he rather preferred a hearty (almost paternal) reply.So he advised the young poet to look inside instead of
Rilke, the lonely German-language poet, but not really a German, rather an exile for 10 years,...possessor of nothing, but his language, shows a young man how a "masterpiece of art" can be accomplished and last for long.Paris 1903.It appears that Rilke had been approached by a poet asking for a critical view of his output.
Yet, Rilke's standing was not critical, at all; he rather preferred a hearty (almost paternal) reply.So he advised the young poet to look inside instead of seeking others views and critics."Turn yourself inwards", was the sort of reply I am talking about; "investigate the cause for your writing"...seek its "roots" in your own heart.
But if ever there were a Pantheon built for the bibliophiles, Rainer Maria Rilke’s “Letter To a Young Poet” shall invariably have a place in it.
Though this is just an account of Letters written by him to an aspiring poet, Rainer speaks to you in a language, which seems to be coming back to you, like a cherished memory once been forgotten.
The Solitude he speaks about has already been there, but is rekindled when his chord strikes it to life, transcending a century and many countries in between.
I am sure I shall keep getting back to it...
Sigh. Rilke answers nothing and answers everything.He talks of our ancestors as being "murmuring blood." This book, containing the voice of his wisdom across the age, is blood that courses through us and speaks.It offers comfort to me in the face of life's challenges, its unrequited longings. It helps me see the value of difficulties and the importance of patience.I wish I'd read this many years ago. I think it would have given me guidance I needed, even if it didn't lead me away from mistakes. Rilke knows the mistakes are essential.
L'umiltà è virtù da praticare assolutamente per giungere all'autenticità : attenersi alla natura, maturare l'amore per le piccole cose, per ciò "che è invisibile ai più e può d'un tratto farsi grande e incommensurabile" : "allora tutto le diventerà (...) quasi più conciliante (...) nella sua più intima e vigile coscienza, e conoscenza".L'arte anche come conoscenza, dunque; l'artista che "si fa veggente", come aveva detto alcuni anni prima Rimbaud.Se si legge ad ampio raggio, questa prosa bellissima tende ad essere anche fonte di riflessione sulla vita, sulla via dell'autenticità.
Rilke sent these letters to Franz Xaver Kappus, in 1903-08 at the age of 28-33, who sought the famous poet's advice at a time when he was tormented by his loneliness and lack of confidence in his own works.
As opposed to contemporary "wisdom manuals", these letters come straight from the heart of their author, with no intention to sell and no masking to make them approachable to the average reader.
The greek edition is full of background information on Kappus and Rilke, as well as on every name mentioned in the letters.

When Rilke counsels Franz Kappus on fears of "the real world," of careers and sex and struggling as an artist, you understand that his letters come from a place of experience.Rilke struggled as a young man, unpopular in school (one of the reasons why I think I would like him as a person) - a sickly, sensitive nerd in the military academy he was forced to attend.
As he tells Kappus, he couldn't have written the advice if he hadn't endured the same fears and pain.I first read this book, yes, when my mom gave it to me after high school graduation.
While there are lovely little gems thrown into these letters for the reader to find, he's just another young man bestowing his wisdom on the world.
(Perhaps we had, as Rilke had.) And like Rilke, nothing that we ever did after that amounted to all the wisdom we had when we were oh-so-much-younger.
It's called discovering the world for the first time and learning our first lessons of it.
There is nothing so breath-taking as the first time of ...
Wonderful letters to receive when you're young too.
The other half sees it as one bitch fit after another.
Usually, Rilke begins with an apology (at times implicit—for his tardy response, for not being able to really help the young poet out, etc.), or a gratitude for a thing (a book, a poem, etc.), then dives on to a poetic nitpicking of some Thing—common topics made important, immediate, and universal by caps lock.What puts me off though is this feeling of Rilke forcing the young Kappus to heed his advice to seek solitude, listen to no one but his own self.
Maybe, I've lost mine and now bitch away my hollow.I want to love the book, but can't.
Letters to a Young Poet by Rainer Maria Rilke was an excellent read and definitely one to put on my classics list.
A short book that contains a collection of letters to a young poet, Rainer writes advice on anything from passion to love to life.
I'll leave you with the quote from the movie said by Whoopi Goldberg: "I went to my mother who gave me this book called Letters To A Young Poet by Rainer Maria Rilke.
If when you wake up in the morning you can think of nothing but writing, then you’re a writer.
And when these letters came to be published after Rilke's death, Kappus self-effacingly (and wisely) left his own side of the correspondence out, with the exception of one sonnet of his that Rilke copied out in his own hand – a tender and generous gesture: "Read the lines as if they were unknown to you, and you will feel in your inmost self how very much they are yours."Clearly, Rilke is sorting out his own thoughts, This gives the letters their freshness, as well as occasional moments of clotted expression.
A great place to start with Rilke, if one has yet to read any of his poetry.
Letters to a Young Poet is a one-sided epistolary conversation between the already prolific Rainer Maria Rilke and a young military cadet/poet-hopeful, Franz Xaver Kappus (hell of a name, that).
These ten letters from Rilke are a must-read for any hopeless heart who wants to be an artist--any kind of artist.
The content of these letters isn't so much a how-to on writing poetry as much as a how-to keep your artistic spirits up.
Cet recueil des lettres qu'ont écrit Rainer Maria Rilke à Franz Xaver Kappus font une suite remarquable aux "Carnets de Malte Laurids Brigge" où Rilke exprime son grand remords de ne pas avoir aimé les proches assez.
Ici, on voit Rilke déterminé à traiter avec toute l'amour et tendresse possible son jeune admirateur.
On trouve en même temps louable la passion qu'a Rilke pour son art.Je ne suis pas poète.
Donc, je n'ai aucun idée si sur le plan technique les conseils de Rilke sont justes mais ça fait chaud au cœur de voir un vieux qui veut encourager un débutant.
I would spend several hours poring over poetry books in bookstores to find out who wrote those beautiful and uplifting words.
I eventually found Letters to a Young Poet and read the entire book straight.
Reading it felt like being thirsty for so long and finally able to drink.
From that time on, when I felt confused or sad or depressed about things, I would read Letters and find a profound consolation.
As I grew older and wiser, everytime I read Letters, it was like opening different doors of understanding.
I started reading this book with the expectation that I would work my way through it quickly, but I ended up being driven through each letter by a hunger that had me finishing the whole thing in an hour.
He went far beyond simply addressing the concerns of how to be a true artist (though his insights in that respect were priceless), and he touched various inarticulate threads of my spirit with his gently magnificent comments on sadness, sexuality, gender, love, and, above all, solitude.
This is a charming little book, as fluid and emotive as Rilke's own poetry. Honest in its advice, and how it is unafraid to take on the darker realms of emotion and embrace the fate of the world.Being a writer or a poet is a task of intense devotion, and Rilke gives it proper reverence. Rilke's focus is on the benefits of solitude and meditation, but also the steady work involved in this task, and how the writer must keep working so as to refine their craft.This is a (dare I say?) very spiritual book. Recommended to all.
This is my last read book until my semester ends. And what a lovely read it was although I do not agree to this fully because I need to see this happening what is wriiten in this book and that needs time. I dedicate this book to people who want peace.
“Perhaps all the dragons in our lives are princesses who are only waiting to see us act, just once, with beauty and courage.”It feels quite trite to say this slim collection is inspirational.But there you go.It is.
Why do you want to shut out of your life any uneasiness, any misery, any depression, since after all you don’t know what work these conditions are doing inside you?
In you, dear Mr. Kappus, so much is happening now; you must be patient like someone who is sick, and confi dent like someone who is recovering; for perhaps you are both.
But in every sickness there are many days when the doctor can do nothing but wait.
And that is what you, insofar as you are your own doctor, must now do, more than anything else.Rilke knew there were inner meanings and messages to illness.
This is not the kind of book you return to the library, or donate to the 2nd hand; it's the kind you keep by your bed, so that you can re-read, re-savor, re-experience it. The ten letters included address loneliness, love, and topics that affect your creations if you are an artist, and your attitude if you are not. It's delicate reading, the kind that requires careful handling. Relative to the first letters, the last two are the weakest, but nonetheless valuable.
Rilke writes to young Franz Xaver Kappus about being a poet.
Well, about life, then, as only the first letter gets into writing poetry to any extent.
To hell with Occam and his razor, says Rilke, my ideas, kind Sir, are a cut above.As I have not hear of Kappus the Poet, we can assume that Rilke's advice was not taken or not effective.
That said, Kappus eventually had these published, so he is not in the read-for-yourself side, I guess.
By then Rilke was dead, though, so no harm, no foul.If you want to go deeper, see my in-depth analysis of Letter #1 here: https://kencraftpoetry.wordpress.com/...
In Rilke's letters to a young poet (the unfortunately named Mr. Krappus), he offers sage advice on a number of topics: writing, sex, love, life.
Rilke often encourages Mr. Krappus to "let life happen" - to take his solitude, his loneliness, his joys and wonders, all the same, but not to force the key.
Rilke notices that what is unknown, what seems to us difficult or impossible, is often a potential source of strength, of life, of infinite pleasure and spiritual nourishment.
Do you believe a child can hold him, him whom men bear only with difficulty, whose weight bows down on the aged?" Rilke is ready to be not only a literary mentor, but a theological counselor.No subject is taboo for Rilke, who quite readily addresses sexual intimacy as he does some rather unconventional thoughts about women:"Surely women, in whom life tarries and dwells more immediately, fruitfully and confidently, must have become fundamentally more mature human beings, more human human beings, than light man, whom the weight of no body's fruit pulls down beneath the surface of life, who, conceited and rash as he is, underrates what he thinks he loves."Even in his criticisms of Kappus (both of his work and his character) he is ever gentle, crafting his words with the care of both poet and teacher.
But do not give way, demand arguments and conduct yourself thus carefully and consistently every single time, and the day will dawn when it will become, instead of a subverter, one of your best workmates - perhaps the cleverest of all who are building your life." (Letter IX)"Art too is only a way of living, and one can prepare for it, living somehow, without knowing it; in everything real one is a closer, nearer neighbour to it than in the unreal semi-artistic professions which, while they make show of a relatedness to art, in practice deny and attack the existence of all art, as for instance the whole of journalism does, and almost all criticism and three quarters of what calls itself and likes to be called literature." (Letter X)
Kitap, Genç şair Franz Xaver ve Rilke'nin 1900'lü yıllarda karşılıklı mektuplaşmalarından oluşuyor. Şair Franz mektuplarında, Rilke'ye kendi şiirleri icin yorumda bulunmasını istiyor fakat zamanla, Sanat, Sanatçı, Hüzün, Yalnızlık ve Şehirler temalı uzunca sohbetler başlıyor. Kitapta genelde Rilke'nin cevaplarına yer verilmiş. Özellikle, Roma, Paris, İsveç gibi sürekli konakladığı ülkeler ve şehirler hakkında verdiği bilgiler keyifle okunuyor. Kitapta anlatımların çoğu aforizma diliyle yazıldığı için sayfa sayısı az da olsa yorucu olabiliyor.
É proibido lê-lo depressa.
Deve ser apreciado e saboreado lentamente, fazê-lo durar como se de uma iguaria se tratasse.
Deviamos lê-lo cedo, quando ainda andamos a arrepiar caminho na procura de um sentido para a vida (não que alguma vez o deixemos de procurar), antes que seja a própria vida a ensinar-nos da pior maneira.À falta de um poeta que nos escreva melodiosas cartas, fiquemos então com este pequeno livro por perto, façamos de conta que foi escrito para nós, e peguemos nele amiúde, pois é do melhor e do pior da vida que ele fala e dá lições preciosas.
Este libro es muy breve y es por que consiste en una colección de cartas que intercambiaron el poeta alemán Rainer María Rilke con un joven poeta llamado Franz Xaver Kappus, entre 1903 y 1906, la última fechada de 1908.
Años después de la muerte de Rilke, Kappus decide publicar las cartas de su amigo y mentor para que otras personas pudieran conocer su perspectiva de la poesía, su arte y las valiosas reflexiones que contienen.La correspondencia inicia por una casualidad; ya que Kappus estudió en la misma academia militar que Rilke y gracias al capellán de la institución es que el joven se entera de esta coincidencia.
Entonces él decide enviarle algunos de sus poemas a Rilke para que le de una opinión de ellos.
I've long believed that if you are suffering from depression or grief, you can hardly do much better for yourself than to read the eighth of Rilke's Letters to a Young Poet.
It is transformative in terms of the way we are used to thinking of sadness, as a state of mind we must move past as quickly and painlessly as possible and then never talk about again.
(I love his idea that sadness is really our facing the future.
It's true.) This is my first time reading the collection of letters as a whole, but back in 2010 in deep depression, I absorbed Rilke's words as if trying to sate some thirst.
Lettres aun jeune poete=Lettres aun jeune poete, Rainer Maria Rilkeعنوان: چند نامه به شاعری جوان و یک داستان و چند شعر؛ نویسنده: راینر ماریا ریلکه؛ مترجم: پرویز ناتل خانلری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، آبان، 1353، در 110 ص، موضوع: نامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 م، راینر ماریا ریلکه از 1875 تا 1926 مدر 110 صفحه توسط انتشارات معین، با ترجمه پرویز ناتل خانلری، شابک: 9789647603409عنوان: نامه هایی به شاعری جوان؛ نوشته: رایند ماریا ریلکه؛ مترجم: علی متولی زاده اردکانی؛ مشحصات نشر: تهران، تعاونی کارآفرینان فر
Lettres aun jeune poete‬‭‭=‎Lettres aun jeune poete, Rainer Maria Rilkeعنوان: چند نامه به شاعری جوان و یک داستان و چند شعر؛ نویسنده: راینر ماریا ریلکه؛ مترجم: پرویز ناتل خانلری؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، آبان، 1353، در 110 ص، موضوع: نامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 م، راینر ماریا ریلکه از 1875 تا 1926 مدر 110 صفحه توسط انتشارات معین، با ترجمه پرویز ناتل خانلری، شابک: 9789647603409عنوان: نامه هایی به شاعری جوان؛ نوشته: رایند ماریا ریلکه؛ مترجم: علی متولی زاده اردکانی؛ مشحصات نشر: تهران، تعاونی کارآفرینان فرهنگ و هنر، 1386، 71 ص، شابک: 9789648742602؛ موضوع: نامه های نویسندگان آلمانی قرن 20 م
Things aren't all so tangible and sayable as people would usually have us believe; most experiences are unsayable, they happen in a space that no word has ever entered, and more unsay able than all other things are works of art, those mysterious existences, whose life endures beside our own small, transitory life.
P. 15- "Nem tudo se pode apreender ou dizer, como nos querem fazer acreditar. Quase tudo o que acontece é inexprimível e se passa numa região que a palavra jamais atingiu."[Edição da Contexto, 1994, 101 p.]
