https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51506.Wittgenstein_s_Mistress
My tolerance for an unreliable narrator a) approaches zero with every fact overthrown (1 pt.) b) varies – it’s often a contrivance, though it can serve a useful purpose (3 pts.) c) is as high as it needs to be to depict a disturbed state of mind or to get at a greater truth (5 pts.) d) soars when it shows how tenuous the things we truly know can be (5 pts.)5.
And synapses can connect with more ready payouts than this.(33 to 47 pts.) – I know it’s hard to resist after smart people like DFW and prominent Goodreads friends have praised it.
Kate refers to herself by a different name later on as well.) left messages in hopes of reaching a fellow soul such as ‘someone is living in the Louvre’ Even underlining seems to be encouraged by Markson, as Kate will cite favorite quotes of hers that she underlined in non-required books during her college days.
The first line of Tractatus, ‘the world is everything that is the case,’ is referenced often by Kate, and the nature of this novel further investigates what Wittgenstein meant by such a statement.
Beaten senseless by the author's large brains I slumped to the ground. When I awoke I found rats had eaten the rest of the book and they had all died with uncanny expressions of horror on their little furry faces. I wasn't disappointed. This novel was a little too avant for my garde.
To invoke a cliche about avant garde literature and experimental art more generally: this is a "difficult" book; it takes effort.
Her descriptions of imagining having seen a cat at the Colosseum in Rome, which becomes a motif throughout the book (like most of her thoughts, they repeat, all motif-ishly) becomes more clearly heartbreaking as they go on.
Thinking about it more now I realize that there are hundreds of beautiful little descriptions scattered throughout this book, cropping up amongst the scatterbrained trivia—some so beautiful that to try to describe them out of context just feels .
Imaginative ImpedimentaHaving just read Lowry’s Under the Volcano, I suppose I was prepared for Markson’s Wittgenstein’s Mistress.
Kate knows that almost everything about her life is a delusion or a distortion of her experience.
But she can’t get rid of her imaginative impedimenta.
That stuff comes with the territory called age, an accumulation of imaginative connections which multiply even as one tries to restrict them.
It requires what might be called empathy, that is a presumption that there is a pattern, a purpose, in Kate’s musings to begin with.
But when they succeed, as I claim David Markson's 'Wittgenstein's Mistress' does, they serve the vital & vanishing function of reminding us of fiction's limitless possibilities for reach & grasp, for making heads throb heartlike...
~ David Foster Wallace******This novel is a genius exploration into the limitations of language (are my roses still red in the dark?), the fragmented, unreliability of memory...
If you think about what one thinks anyway...the way one tends to ruminate.
I think about thinking a lot.I have a lot more to say and would love to discuss this novel with those of you who have read it.
Once in a while, when I was not mad, I would turn poetic instead.How often does a book leave you with a brand new imagination by the time you finish it?
The things that are capable of existing in my head rarely make their way on a piece of paper or a blank page of a word document and even if they do, the medium doesn’t waste any time in pointing out the mistakes in my thoughts and highlight the same with green or red crinkly lines.
Her story starts on a beach and ends up in books.
Her errors serve as original art and interpretation.-Wittgenstein's idea are sprayed all over the book - the epigraph about sand; "The world is everything that is the case"; speculations about tape.
But for me, it is a little book of 240 pages, perhaps 10 allusions on each page (none obscure), strung together with quirky asides, and expressions like "well", "as a matter of fact", "oops", "the things one knows", "hm", and so on, and all narrated by a person whom I did not believe in.WM reminded me of something I do think about though: how would I live and act in a world with no other person in it?
It requires a commitment of sorts, but I’m reluctant to call it difficult; I’d say of WM what I said of This is Not a Novel: “Some assembly required.”With this novel (as with the tetralogy, which for the life of me has a very similar ‘feel’), Markson does what the often-referred to Michelangelo said of sculpting—the artist strips away the unnecessary part (of the novel, of the marble slab), leaving a bare-bones orgy of intertextuality, art history, and philosophy, while telling the tale of a madness-prone, lonely, frequently confused woman you want to know in the worst way—and he does this in a most gentle, often humorous voice that leaves the reader (this reader) sated to a level of perfect contentedness.
Bu yıl okuduğum en iyi, uzun süredir okuduğum en özgün metinlerden biriydi. Nasıl anlatmalıyı cevaplayabilirsem bir şeyler karalayacağım.
Within these seemingly disorganized sentences, there is an intricate pattern through which Markson brings forth the nature of memory, the close connection between imagination and our concept of reality."What an extraordinary change takes place...when for the first time the fact that everything depends upon how a thing is thought first enters the consciousness, when, in consequence, thought in its absoluteness replaces an apparent reality." - KierkegaardHer meandering thoughts on literature, art history, philosophers etc., perhaps have to do with escapism.
Be it her trying to play tennis with herself, or her putting out cans of cat food for a cat she knows she had only imagined.In her own rambling and scatterbrained manner, she brings up many a philosophical questions.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Simultaneous Worlds: "Wittgenstein's Mistress" by David Markson(Original Review, 1990)I think the point—or premise?—of “Wittgenstein's Mistress” is that the monologue of the only person on Earth—necessarily, in the physical sense of "only", a "monologue"—is not actually a monologue. Language itself—emerging or disclosed in and through the concrete words and usage of Kate's 'monologue'—is already communal, social, cultural, historical — even if there's only one person left.
the 'message' behind nele azevedo's melting ice people might've been environmental, but for me it's all about death and impermanence and the horrible fleetingness of...
of course, for me, the subtext of everything from homer's iliad to the newest kate hudson romcom is death in that everyone involved will someday die, and then the last person to know anyone involved will someday die, and then the last person to know of somebody involved will die, and then the last person will someday die, and then the last trace of all people will disappear, and then the last trace of our planet, our galaxy, and our universe will disappear.
Not his actual mistress, mind you (with whom I've never had the pleasure), but merely the book named after her.One's language is frequently imprecise in that manner, I have discovered.First, a few facts about the reviewer: 1) Has never read DFW's essay on WM, or anything else by Markson.
I think that this is probably a fact as well.One finds it agreeable to be positive as to what one is talking about at least part of the time.Wittgenstein's Mistress: "A work of genius" (DFW)Wittgenstein's Mistress: "blah blah blah Brahms blah blah blah blah Brahms..
The five star, in all good conscience, should only be awarded after a second run-through and piece-together. I am stunned and throat-constricted after finishing this and need to catch my breath, regroup. I have my notes and a review kernel ready but it does no justice to this novel. I don't want to review it. Instead, I want to read it a thousand times.
She is living in a world governed by the logic of Wittgenstein’s Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus, a world that is “the totality of facts, not of things.”(view spoiler)[The world is everything that is the case.1.1 The world is the totality of facts, not of things.1.11 The world is determined by the facts, and by these being all the facts.
1.13 The facts in logical space are the world.1.2 The world divides into facts.1.21 Any one can either be the case or not be the case, and everything else remain the same.Ludwig Wittgenstein - Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus 1922 (hide spoiler)]Her allusions, expressed with a curious precision, move in spirals, sometimes accelerating to a dizzying pace and other times slowing to a more contemplative speed.
Which, even though more telegraphed than Samuel F.
Morse, is still a fantastic, masterful piece of work.Samuel Morse was a painter and Calvinist, something most people don't know but I do for some reason, and one can see this combination best in his Landing of the Pilgrims at the same Pilgrim Hall Museum that I am currently living in.Let's say 60-pages.Of course, when I say Pilgrim Hall Museum I really meant the Louvre.
Which, of course, it both is and isn't.I don't know what I meant by that last sentence.Long ghosts walk these halls.

As with certain Dalkey Archive titles, it helps to read around the book first (Foster Wallace’s RCF review from 1990 being a good place to start) to understand the technical philosophy being explored alongside the devastating depiction of loneliness and madness that forms the upfront textual heft.
On a prose level, each sentence occupies its own little island of significance, standing alone as separate paragraphs, as the memory and trivia flux zigzags along the page, offering rare titbits from the narrator’s past, along with increasingly crazed factual inaccuracies.
Comparison points might be made with B.S. Johnson’s more basic exploration of grief The Unfortunates or Lynne Tillman’s American Genius: A Comedy, but the novel stands alone as a bewitching original.
Doubtless this is the passage that works best for me in suming up the experience of reading Markson’s anti-novel.There’s no plot, no characters to speak of, no structure and no final illuminating revelations about fundamental aspects of human nature.Unless one considers that we live in a constant state of bafflement, wasting our precious conscious seconds and minutes engaged in trivial pursuits and meaningless thoughts.Than this tome arguably becomes the ultimate philosophical treatise.Or maybe not.I should rather talk about it in terms of the perfect Off-Topic novel.In which case, a proper review of ‘it’ needs must be similarly off-topic to the contents of the ‘book’ and should include such trivialities as pass though my mind as I’m writing my review.
Inspired by Ludwig Wittgenstien's Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus —a classic 20th century book, about 70 pages, consisting of remarks on the essence of language, the nature of the world; of logic, mathematics, science and philosophy and ending with comments on ethics, religion and mysticism— is quite a mind-bending read.
Anyway, and but so, before attempting to hypothesise any further, I should point out I gleaned most of this meaning from Markson's novel.I first became aware of Ludwig Wittgenstein through reading DFW's Broom Of The System.
It's written in, what initially feels like, an absurd sea of statements and declarations but over the course of the novel the rhythm and pattern of writing begins to hypnotise and mesmerise.
My last review before this was about a novel with only one paragraph.This time, it is about a novel 
This is one of those damned pomo novels which defies any attempt at snappy categorization. It has a heavy influence from Wittgenstein both in style and philosophy, and talks a lot about being alone in the world and how names and facts lose their meaning. To be frank, it's rather overwhelming, and I'm not really ready to articulate what I think about it yet. Writing about abstract concepts like history or philosophy is easy to me. Writing about people is hard.
“And of course I was quite out of my mind for a certain period too, back then.I do not know for how long a period, but for a certain period.Time out of mind.
Which is a phrase I suspect I may have never properly understood, now that I happen to use it.Time out of mind meaning mad, or time out of mind meaning simply forgotten?”Although influences are rather apparent – Molloy by Samuel Beckett and The Recognitions by William Gaddis – David Markson is quite on his own here and Wittgenstein’s Mistress is a psychedelic slumber of reason.
“To sleep, to dream...”“Doubtless these are inconsequential perplexities.
Like Giotto he has performed a feat that is both impressive and sort of empty, a proof of what can happen when a human artist's hand is -- perhaps unnecessarily -- forced to meet an inhumanly rigid standard.To make yet another crude analogy, Markson has succeeded at breathing in a vacuum -- but in the end he's still just breathing, which is something you and I do all the time.
That is to say, I was impressed with the trick this book pulled off but in the end it's just another novel to me, and although it comes around to success the long way, the success I see in it is a conventional sort of success.
I once wrote a letter to Selma Blair and told her she was really good in the movie Cruel Intentions.
But I wanted to have something to say to her and since her show on the WB was still a few months off I didn't have anything else to say, factually, expect, "You did a really good job on Jay Leno's show and then Third Eye Blind played and that was pretty badass too." This would have been a letter half as much about Third Eye Blind as it was about Selma Blair herself and I didn't think that would be as impressive as saying something like, "Hey Selma, you did a really good job on Jay Leno the other night and by the way I really liked you in Cruel Intentions." Selma Blair did not write back.
Bugüne kadar okuduklarım arasında tür ve yapı olarak Wittgenstein'ın Metresi ile benzer olana denk gelmedim. Hatta abartıp okuduğum en özgün kitaplar arasında üst sıralara yerleştirebilirim. Başından sonuna okuduğum bütün süreç oldukça tatmin edici bir deneyimdi benim için. Ek olarak, edebiyatta Postmodernizm ile ilgili kafamda oturmamış bazı sorular konusunda da bana yardımcı oldu ve cevap verdi diyebilirim. Ve tabii ki, bir öğleden sonrası Parthenon'una bakarken kitabı tekrar okumayı istedim.Jaguar Yayınları'na da ayrıca teşekkürler, böyle güzel kitaplara sebep oldukları için :)
And that many of the questions we ask ourselves are basically illusions set up by words so that we think we are talking about something when in reality we aren't (like the cat that doesn't exist in this novel, but is named and given a personality, and thus exists in her mind, and on the page).Nevertheless, the world is all that is the case.Surely there is much more thought to be given to this topic, but as someone who has never read a word of Wittgenstein either (I've only read a biography on him, which was highly illuminating and I'm very glad I read it before reading this), I should probably not continue talking about that which I do not know.
In the beginning, I worried about the style.It looks like How It Is, is what I told myself upon opening the book.Naturally I did not want to read something that appeared to be so much influenced by How It Is.How It Is being the Samuel Beckett novel I have least enjoyed.Generally speaking, I like Samuel Beckett a lot, but How It Is did confuse and bore me a little.Although, upon reflection, Wittgenstein’s Mistress is nothing like How It Is.Markson’s novel is actually influenced by Ludwig Wittgenstein’s Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus.Being a philosophy graduate, I have rolled around on the floor, so to speak, with Wittgenstein’s book.Yet I cannot speak about it with any authority.
I tu se krije i ključ za čitanje ove knjige i za moj neuspeh u tome.Naime, ma koliko ovaj roman na prvi pogled delovao kao "Pale sam na svijetu" za odrasle, o poluludoj ili sasvim ludoj slikarki koja se probudila u svetu bez ljudi, zapravo se radi o nizu internih šala za ljude debelo upućene u Vitgenštajnovu filozofiju i epistemološke i ontološke probleme generalno.
