https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13547180-brain-on-fire
In this rare disorder, people often pass through a range of bizarre psychiatric symptoms that lead to catatonia and then often death as the body becomes unable to regulate itself, as with the patient I cared for in ICU.
She considers herself incredibly lucky, and wrote this book to raise awareness about people elsewhere who may be misdiagnosed.It's incredibly well written, and the author does a remarkable job about being open and honest, in even unflattering ways, to be true to the story and to present an accurate picture of just what this terrifying disease can do to you.
Her story is almost like a mystery, with clues, red herrings, suspects, good guys and bad…well, there are not really any bad guys, just uninformed medical pros.
In terms of what Cahalan is finally diagnosed with it is clear that many of those pioneers did not survive.
Cahalan does offer a bit of perspective, with info on some other people who have been diagnosed with her disease.
Even though I was not all that taken with Miss Cahalan as a person, she is a good writer with a fascinating tale to tell, one with implications far beyond her personal journey.
It is a rare and gifted author that can objectively describe a personal event without infusing it with strong emotions.Perhaps Susannah was able to accomplish this huge feat due to the simple fact that she was unaware of herself much of the time that her brain was inflamed.
Although I recoil when an author writes a book with an agenda, Susannah's agenda is simply awareness of the possibility that mental illness can be physiological in nature, caused by a virus or bacteria, changing the personality of a person to such an extreme that mental illness is diagnosed and the person spends the rest of her life in an institution.
In the end, a brilliant doctor who specializes in the strangest ailments would correctly diagnose the patient with a rare disease that affects 1 in a billion people.
This book is basically an episode of that show.Also, I am told that the show House was like that, but I never saw it.The plight of the author is enthralling but scary.
If you prefer your non-fiction in layman's terms, this may not be the book for you.If you like mysterious and terrifyingly true tales of the human body turning against itself, and the plight of the innocent soul within, I expect you will find this book very intriguing.
The lack of description in the book (I'm a big fan of Hemingway's iceberg theory, but it's based on the assumption that there is a common human experience on which one can infer things that are not written - having a completely debilitating brain disease is not a part of that common experience, thus we need things spelled out for us) leaves a big divide between writer and reader.
Having just finished this (in a day and a half because I wanted to move on to something more enjoyable) I'm really confused by the 4.08 Goodreads rating.
Interesting and terrifying read.
Or got in a cleaner, we are talking very wealthy people here.The author makes an excellent point in that many people living with 'schizophrenia' might actually have the same, easily curable brain disease, but the process of diagnosis was very expensive, although now one would hope that there are protocols to follow to rule it out before labelling someone psychotic-for-life.
So on my island they pharmacy's were making a profit selling the drugs at $6, and in the US the insurance companies were being asked to pay out $250 for the exact same medication in the exact same packaging.So maybe people were being diagnosed as schizophrenics rather than having a brain inflammation because of the greed of the drug companies and the desire of insurance companies to put profits before health?
When you read you enter another world, and — as someone who is uncomfortable (with even the idea apparently) of care giving — entering the world of hospitals for the majority of this book was painful for me.
Beyond that, I was unimpressed with the pop culture mentioned throughout the book — she described someone as looking like a character from “Mad Men” and she even uses Google as a verb.
It might have been because I didn’t end up reading all of the last pages.
I truly hope that the thousands and thousands of patients with NMDA-R antibody encephalitis and their relatives would find comfort in this book, and that they come across brilliant and compassionate neurologists who would champion their plight.
On the final note, I'm glad for all the wonderful work that Dr Dalmau has done in the field of autoimmune encephalitis, and the author's recovery is testament to how well patients with the same condition could fare.
P/S: I read the very same Lancet paper by Josef Dalmau when I was looking up on how to treat this disease, and I still pass the same abstract around when colleagues from other hospitals & specialties ask me about good papers to read regarding NMDA-R antibody encephalitis.
The book says she uses journalistic techniques to piece together.
There are some reproductions of notes she scribbled and some doctors' notes, but the book felt remarkably lacking in insight.
The Syrian doctor who made the diagnosis is interesting; we get some, but not much.In the absence of a more straightforward journalistic accounting, and in the absence of our sympathies (we don' get to meet Cahalan prior to her paranoia, so we don't have any baseline), I wanted the book to be reflective, philosophical about the state of madness, about what creates people's sense of their own mind, about paranoid.
I could save a life with this information!I listened to the audio, which felt a little flat.
It is impressive to consider that the author had to do so much investigative reporting to write her own story simply because she didn't remember it, but the combination of the audio voice and the 20/20 feel of the story left me craving a more personal connection.
The story was good but it read very heavy on information and light on emotions and recovery.
I will say that it is nothing short of a miracle that this author is here and able to write.
Had she not had affluent parents to advocate for her and very good health insurance, her story might have ended quite differently.
I never saw her again.The chicken pox had mutated into encephalitis, and her immune response went into overdrive.
Immune responses and pathogens and neurology....cryptic stuff, but something close to my own sort of wondering.I'm thrilled beyond words that the young author was able to recover as well as she did and was able to write this book.
!The first half went like this, "what's wrong with me?
I'm going crazy" restated in about five thousand ways.Then midway through the book we finally find out SC has NMDA-receptor autoimmune encephalitis, which is sometimes misdiagnosed as schizophrenia (or schizoaffective disorder in SC's case).I really wish the story wasn't presented as a Mystery Diagnosis or an episode of House.
Just let us know from the beginning what it is you suffered from and let the story unfold from there.The second half of the book discussed her recovery.
Aphasia, myoclonus, amnesia, jemais vu, hyperesthesia, allodynia, hemiparesis, paresthesia, cognitive impairment, impaired executive function, depersonalization, neuropsychological assessments, hemiplegic, acephalgic -- words that began to define my life just last year.Her story is a remarkable one, but as a journalist, I believe she downplayed the emotions that this kind of brain sickness evokes.
Finally the celebration, that turning point, the triumph when you overcome your obstacles to write that first article again (or in my case pass that exam.) But really, can anyone accurately describe those feelings?Fortunately for both of us, the slope of the line was up.
Phenomenal - undoubtedly the best non-fiction book I have read so far this year.This a non-fiction book in which Susannah Cahalan has documented a month of complete horror for herself and her family - a month when she went from being a completely 'normal' 24 year old woman to being strapped onto a gurney in a hospital with doctors and nurses contemplating admitting her to a psychiatric ward.
To top it off, Susannah is a journalist and has writing this book in an extremely digestible way, it was like talking to a friend.
Sorry doc but I couldn't help it!"One day after about a million dollars worth of tests came up with zilch, Dr. Souhel Najjar came aboard Susannah's case, and it's a darn lucky thing that he did, because he had recently discovered a rare auto immune disease called Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis.
Christopher Moore??And that is the truly scary part in a very scary tale, that millions of people over countless years have been mis-diagnosed, put in institutions and left to die, or treated as evil and possibly put to a horrible death.Good times!!I enjoyed this book and found it fascinating.
I guess that's why it's taken a month to figure out what exactly I want to say about Brain on Fire, a medical memoir by journalist Susannah Cahalan.
Cahalan develops a mysterious illness over the course of 2 months, which leads to an extended stay in NYU's Epileptic ward.
One aspect of this book that I think is unique is that at the height of her illness, Cahalan loses her memory, and as a result has no recollection of her experiences, including her recovery.
As a journalist, she pieces together the events leading up to her illness and it's aftermath by interviewing her family, friends, and doctors.
Then Susannah began to change: she forgot to prepare for an important work meeting; started to get migraines; felt compelled to snoop through Stephen's things; developed numbness.....then pins and needles.
Dr. Najjar determined that Susannah had a rare autoimmune disorder called "anti–NMDA receptor autoimmune encephalitis" - in short, antibodies from Susannah's immune system were attacking her brain.
Susannah also provides general information about the brain, how it works, how memories are formed, etc.
As Susannah points out, people throughout history who were thought to be psychotic may have had anti–NMDA receptor autoimmune encephalitis.....or some other organic brain disorder.
She has a good relationship with her boyfriend, her divorced parents, and her little cat.Then she wakes up with a bug bite on her arm.
She starts to throw away everything she sees as "cluttering" her apartment: photos, books, papers.And her boyfriend!
She goes through all his e-mails and searches his apartment.Slowly her friends, family and colleagues start to realize that something is very, very wrong with Susannah.
She describes being trapped inside her mind, knowing that what she's doing and saying is crazy but unable to stop herself.Her parents and boyfriend are her champions - (view spoiler)[ insisting that she's not crazy, that she is the victim of some autoimmune disease.
Gripping....alarming....educational narrative about a rare disease through Susannah's account of what happened before and after her diagnosis. Those of us with an autoimmune disease can relate to this story. I don't share this part of my life often but it took 16 months for me to get diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. It's not as severe as anti-NMDA-receptor autoimmune encephalitis but not fun nonetheless. I think this is an important read for all in the medical field.
Fascinating and terrifying.
**A few spoilers ahead** "I must be getting the flu, I thought.”The doctors don’t actually know how it began for me. What’s clear is that if that man had sneezed on you, you’d most likely just get a cold. For me, it flipped my universe upside down and very nearly sent me to an asylum for life" Our brain is everything. Without it, we are a shell. That’s something we may take for granted, because who wants to think about it. So what happens when something goes wrong, especially when it alters the
The mystery was in the asking, “Why were these things happening to Susannah?” and “Why were there no explanations for it?”The beginning of her symptoms seemed innocuous.
As she describes it, one morning in 2009 Susannah woke to find two small bites on her arm and became convinced that her New York apartment had a bedbug infestation, even though an exterminator told her otherwise.A stranger would probably mistake the increasing erratic behavior that follows as the actions of a tyrannical, spoiled brat, if not for the seriousness of the upcoming paranoia, blackouts and seizures.
Just after convincing the doctor to admit her to a hospital for overnight monitoring, Susannah had a seizure in the lobby that changes everything:
Absolutely gripping and terrifying!
"Maybe it's true what Thomas Moore said," Susannah Cahalan writes,"it is only through mystery and madness that the soul is revealed." How else does one solve the puzzle of the devastating effects of illness, specifically illness of the brain? Some survive, maybe even thrive, while others remain in despondency. The true soul emerges through despair.  The healthy brain is a symphony of 100 billion neurons, the actions of each individual brain cell harmonizing into a whole that enables thoughts, mo
"Maybe it's true what Thomas Moore said," Susannah Cahalan writes,"it is only through mystery and madness that the soul is revealed." How else does one solve the puzzle of the devastating effects of illness, specifically illness of the brain?
I quickly realized the phrase brain on fire doesn't allude to those particular moments of electrical shock waves of pain and burning in the head, but the idea that I picked up this memoir based on that thinking, achieves a goal: it showcases the richness of Susannah Cahalan's shared memories of illness because this is what she wanted, to use her story to start a discussion around illnesses affecting the brain.
I have to thank my daughter for referring Brain On Fire: My Month Of Madness by Susannah Cahalan to me. An informative, scary and fascinating true story.Susannah Cahalan, a writer at the New York Post, recounts her months of battling an invisible illness. The author tells of her experience with a rare and recently discovered autoimmune disorder that causes symptoms such as seizures, psychosis, basically a descent into madness.Not a story I'm likely to forget.
Buna rağmen kitabı birkaç günde bitirdim.Eğer bu tarz şeylere ilginiz varsa, Beynimdeki Yangın kesinlikle okumanız gereken bir kitap çünkü anlattığı hastalık konusunda insanların bilinçlenmesi gerekiyor.
Bütün bunlar 2009'da başlamış ve 2010'da sonlanmış ve o zamandan bu zamana tıp dünyası bu hastalık konusunda çok gelişme kat etmiş (ve kitabın basıldığı 2012'den bu yana ilerlemeyi sürdürmüşlerdir, diye düşünüyorum).
Ama 2009'da NYU'nun hastanesine yatırılan Cahalan'ın bile ölümden neredeyse kıl payıyla kurtulduğunu düşündükçe insan korkuyor.2009'dan bu yana elbette çok ilerleme vardır ama, acaba Türkiye'de kaç kişi bu hastalığa yakalandı da tehşis edilemedi?
Kızın babası, Emily'e tehşis konulmasını Susannah Cahalan'ın hastalığı atlatmasının ardından yazdığı bir makale sayesinde başarmıştı.
Rating = 3.5 starsThe most amazing thing about this book was that she was able to write it at all, given her descent into non-functionality. She is a lucky young woman indeed, in so many many ways.For personal reasons, I'm not going to write a proper review of this book. What I have to say would most certainly invite irritating and argumentative comments from strangers, and I'm just NEVER in the mood for those people.
4.5 Stars.
Equally fascinating and terrifying.
I was a psych major, and I've been meaning to read more psych related nonfiction, and I'm pleased with this choice.
There is quite a bit of psych/bio related information, but I think she manages to do it in a manner that isn't overwhelming.
For me it was a nice refresher.
I think one of the most interesting aspects was her social commentary about what it means to possibly be mentally ill.
l also appreciated that throughout the book she is cognizant of the fact that although she went through this horrific journey, she is also incredibly incredibly lucky (being that she is from an upper class family that can afford fancy doctors and her insurance).
Instead I'm rating the author's depiction of these experiences, focusing on the way it was written and how it influenced my overall reading experience.The subject matter of this book is very interesting and frankly, a little frightening to read about, since it tells the story of the author’s 'month of madness', after which she was diagnosed with a rare auto-immune disease.
The writing style was not my favourite personally, since I feel like you can tell the author has a background in tabloid journalism, occasionally drawing on overly emotional language and turn of phrases.
Overall however, it just wasn't very memorable for me personally, which is why I didn't give it a higher rating.
A true-life Dr. House mystery. What starts as two suspected bedbug bites for 20 something reporter Susannah Cahalan quickly escalates into hallucinations, out of body experiences, rampant paranoia and massive seizures. Doctors are stumped when MRIs and blood work come back clean and dismiss is as stress or drinking too much. It takes the persistence of her parents and the intervention of one Dr. Souhel Najjar and a simple paper and pencil test that sets her on a path to recovery. Cahalan digs through medical records, video footage and countless interviews to piece together her month of madness. Riveting.
