https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84146.Dark_Side_of_the_Moon
Ravyn Kontis (Dark Hunter and Arcadian Werehunter) & Susan Michaels (Human)Have you ever watched Shrek 2?
Like I did…Did you ever wonder how Puss would look like if he was a real man and not a cat?
One day she will discover that catpeople and other strange creatures truly exist and that her friend is really a Squire for the Dark Hunters.
No offense, but I don’t like to be hurt and I’d rather just avoid it.”The book besides the story of Ravyn and Susan, also shows the world and the behavior of Squires while we learn what happened to Nick Gautier these last two years of his existence.
“You don’t knock on the devil’s door, unless you want him to answer.”  Nicely developed story, many sublines and characters, so much emotion, mystery and fate, love and pain, wrath, woe, guilt, and grief wrapped in one novel. The plot is exciting, great paced, and well-worked-out with almost constant fighting, but it is still followable. The final fight is excellently constructed. I loved both the humor and action in it. Susan She is irritating, bitchy, and nosy. A real smartass with sarcastic
Nicely developed story, many sublines and characters, so much emotion, mystery and fate, love and pain, wrath, woe, guilt, and grief wrapped in one novel.
I loved both the humor and action in it.
But it made her wonder what he’d be like if he was just an average guy on the street.
A guy like this could never be average.
Secondary CharactersCael and Amaranda: great subline, I’m really curious about them.Squires and Dark-Hunters: excellent overview of how the squires work, and the Dark-Hunters in Seattle.Nick: well, Nick is back just to cause more calamity…Ash: OMG, what a man!Artemis: What a bitch!Stryker: I’m starting to seriously like him.Savitar: hegemonic and surprisingly talkative…
I like that.Susan is a reporter for a rag newspaper - the kind that features a disproportional amount of time and space on Bigfoot stories.
a pretty common occurrence!Ravyn's appearance starts another shit storm in Susan's life.
All of this takes place in Seattle, so we get to meet new Dark Hunters and squires, but we also get a couple of old friends since they were evacuated from New Orleans since Katrina.
Susan cracked me up most of the time, and Ravyn was also pretty sarcastic and funny.
All in all, I am disappointing my friend, Monty, who wanted me to hate Susan with her.
What do I think?Well for one, Ash needs to grow some balls. Or a spine. F*ck, even one ball would be fine for me considering the p*ssy he currently is :((( (actually, he's been like this from the start of the series which is the extremely sad point.Second, Nick needs to be shot in the head but unfortunately that wouldn't work for him now, so yeah, he could grow some balls too and get into the adult side of life instead of staying an eternal whiny teenager. Oh well.And so, dear Dark-Hunter universe:
I normally love the Dark Hunter series, but I just couldn't get into this one. My faviroute scenes were the ones Nick was in. I am totally in love with him! Overall, the book was okay, I don't think you need to read it to get the story. So, if you want just skip it. It really won't matter.
I was REALLY angry with him.Kenyon totally plays the fact that Susan's rather violently allergic to Ravyn as a hilarious joke, but the idea of her being with this man for the rest of her life when she can't even sleep in a bed next to him without being miserable is disgusting and horrifying to me.Finally Ravyn reaches a point where he's just like, "I'm going to shave all my hair off." I was rejoicing until Susan said, "Don't you dare!" I do not understand her reaction AT ALL and I didn't really get an explanation from Kenyon.
This book contains an interesting storyline and endearing characters.Ravyn Kontis was a Were-Hunter, an Arcadian leopard, who was betrayed by his human mate and that caused him to lose his loved ones, his family, and his life.
One day, she got a call from her friend, told her to go to the animal shelter for very interesting news, her whole life was turned upside down since the moment she went there, took the cat out, and brought him to her home.
The romance is good, I loved that they took the time to build and develop their relationship and trust.I would have given this book 5 stars if I hadn't had a super big problem with Nick Gautier!
I loved the humor and also enjoyed the fact that the romance was on a slightly slower burn than is typical with most PNR books.
Susan was a likable, strong, and surprisingly capable heroine while Ravyn was a good guy with a typically tragic back story.
As well as the typical Daimons Susan and Ravyn also had to deal with corrupt cops and the villainous Daimon leader Stryker.
I always enjoy it when the books in the Dark-Hunter series have a good balance between the novel story arc and the overall series story arc.
Al final de la serie voy a terminar como una loca y lo peor o mejor?
WHAT THE HELL, NICK?! Boy has freaking lost his mind! But,I hope Nicky will find peace in it. And as usual, it is trashy, cheesy, romantic, and still I am going to continue series! *sighs*  Katagaria +  Arcadians + Were-Hunters + Were-Wolves + Dark Hunters + Insignificant Humans blabbering = The whole book! Concept: 3.0/5.0Execution: 2.25/5.0 Characters Bespoken: 2.0 /5.0Cover: 1.0/5.0 Overall: 2.5/5.0As for Ravyn and Susan:P.S.: God knows why I liked the kitty cat!
3.5 Yup, it's as good as they say it is.I admit, I expected this book to be good. And guess what? It was!It was funny as hell, I absolutely loved the main female character. She was sarcastic and fun and smart! I liked her!
Argh, frustrating story.
Least favorite of all the Dark-Hunters in the series (I've read the first 10, this being 10).
The story did have some interesting backstory on Acheron, Nick and Stryker, but not enough to read the book in my opinion.
The main romance story was a bust.
Heroine (Susan) was like nails on chalkboard who spoke mostly sarcastic comments.
I really wanted someone to just slap her down, just once!
The hero (Ravyn) was OK, but his tortured past was no different than any other Dark-Hunter.
The romance was so unrealistic.
I would classify this book as a 'wall banger'.
Ok, the ending/epilogue to this book, had me like... The rest of the story just had me. What I mean is, though there were things I had no clue about, events that had already occurred in other books that I have not read, it still did not confuse me to the point where I was just lost & could not enjoy or appreciate this book. This book is part of a huge network of books. All things tie in together in some form or fashion. But with this story, with everything going on with the current plot, new
What I mean is, though there were things I had no clue about, events that had already occurred in other books that I have not read, it still did not confuse me to the point where I was just lost & could not enjoy or appreciate this book.
But with this story, with everything going on with the current plot, new plot developments, subplots & the fleshing out of the main characters; nothing was too much or over the top or took away from Ravyn & Susan's story.
And it doesn't hurt matters that Ravyn is fine as hell.This book has non stop action & intrigue.
And some heart breaking moments too.I would definitely recommend this read.
WOW. Lots and lots of badly done sex wrapped very loosely around a...plot? Wait, was that a little plot I saw over there? Too tiny to make out, poor little neglected thing!I think if a caveman came into the modern world and was introduced to this as his first book, and was told there were libraries in every city in the world with hundreds of these things, he'd hit everyone with it and return home to announce civilization has gone backward. Let's just say if you ever run into this book in a dark library, run away.
Kitap elimde paçavra oldu paçavraaa.KMM bitsin geri döncem.*dönmedi*
Due to this initial meeting between the two characters, the rest of the book is rife with cat jokes: "I think he has to use the litter box, " "Puss in Boots," etc.
Now I love Nancy Drew, but the books are tediously over-detailed, archaic, and the villain is always blatantly obvious.
There's a very juvenile feeling to it, hence the Nancy Drew reference.The rest of the book is more sleuthing, several villains with the evil muahaha-ing & rubbing hands in glee - Dr.Evil style.
I can’t think of another author I’ve read who puts so much story into her stories, it’s just amazing.
I can’t believe everything that happened in this book!
Their love story seemed real and believable, and I loved that they had a true friendship in addition to the romance.
I loved seeing Nick come back into the action, but am in disbelief at what is going on with him.
He’s such an amazing character.I love this series!
But she adds in great action, laugh out loud moments and sensationally swoony romance and I just can’t get enough!
That being said, though, I know that Nick gets hooked up with Satara (the bitch) and Stryker somehow and it was nice to see how he got roped into that.Also, I was pleasantly surprised to see a little bit of a nicer, softer side of Stryker.
Now, I know that he's in no way this nice guy, but it's always nice to see the super baddie have a little bit of a soft side.Overall the book was okay, but it's not one of the Dark-Hunter books that I would rush to re-read.
So... I wrote a review for this, but it somehow got deleted. I'm so mad! I spent half an hour writing it only to suddenly disappear right before my eyes :@ I don't I will be writing it again.
O epilog yok mu o epilog...Seride kitap atlayıp Chronicles of Nick  serisini okumak istiyorum.
Neste nono volume foi a vez de Ravyn, um Were-Hunter que se tornou Dark-Hunter e que por isso foi desprezado pela sua raça.Susan tinha tudo para ser feliz, namorado, uma carreira de sucesso, até que confiou nas pessoas erradas e acabou sem nada…agora trabalha num jornal de um amigo, onde apenas publica notícias ficcionais.De repente, estes dois vêem os seus destinos se cruzar e nada nem ninguém poderá parar o que as Parcas têm destinado para eles.
Apesar disso não deixo de sentir um forte sentimento de compaixão pela personagem, mostra-nos que também o homem mais forte consegue ser fraco, mas para “crescer” ele tem que passar por certas coisas.
I found the hardcover edition "Dark Side of the Moon" for $5.99 on the Borders bargain books rack.
I rarely like sex scenes in books because 99% of them are so poorly written, they're both awkward and funny.
I don't know if the rest of the Dark Hunter books are anything like this.
I would like to read stories about Zoe or Belle, two Dark Hunters who appear only briefly.
I wonder if there's anyway to pick and chose the characters I'd like to learn more about.By the way, I gave this only 3 stars because it's not particularly original and it's pretty trashy (in a good way).
My review in Hungarian.
Le doy esa nota porque la relación de los protagonistas no me ha gustado especialmente, pero las subtramas son increíbles, sobre todo la de Aquerón y Nick *omg*
I think this was the first Sherrilyn Kenyon book I ever read-talk about jumping right in to the Dark Hunter world.
I love the Dark Hunters and this is a fun one.
I strongly recommend reading them in order (I did not-it sucked).Susan rescues a cat who is really a dark hunter.
He turns from cat to leopard to man in front of her, and she's calm about it-I loved that.
It was a fun book to re-read now that I've read through the series, and know the characters and the world better.I think that one of my favorite quotes ever came from this book:"So tell me something, how did you do that earlier trick?”Ravyn grimaced.
“What trick?”“The cat thing.
When Dark Hunter/Were Shifter Ravyn gets himself hauled off to the pound he thinks perhaps his time maybe up.
When her best friend calls her to the pound to share some news, she ends up with a cat and stuffed up nose.
Susan realizes her life has just changed as the cat transforms to a chiseled naked man in her front room.
The fun is just beginning as he becomes the hunted rather than the hunter.Ton of fun, plus it had Savitar, Nick, Otto some of my favorites from the series.
3.5 stars - A good but not great read for me. The chemistry seemed a little off with Ravyn and Susan - I was never completely sold on it but it is nice to see him have someone to support him after the fiasco he calls family. The police plot fell short also - lacking some of the suspense of other books in the series for me. However, Archeron always brings a smile to my face! Just not with Artemis! :(
Gostei. :) A Susan era mesmo sarcástica! ahaha o Ravyn é um querido, gostei da parte de transformar-se em gato, pq eu adoro gatos. Ah e da parte da Susan ser alérgica ao seu companheiro :P Mais um bom livro desta autora, apesar de ja ir no 10º livro desta saga, ainda nao notei nenhum sinal de desgase, aliás cada livro é melhor que o outro, criando um grande mistério à volta do Acheron, que terei grande prazer em descobrir quando ler o livro dedicado a esta personagem.
I do love this series. In this book we learn more about squires. And, Nick? What are you doing? Your mother would not be pleased.P. S. I love Susan! She is a strong character that takes everything in stride. She fights, but she is smart about it. Love the addition of a cat allergy. Hilarious!
Susan é muito terra-a-terra e não acredita no sobrenatural, por isso é apanhada de surpresa quando o gato que acabou de adoptar no abrigo (embora seja alérgica a gatos) cresce até ficar do tamanho de um tigre e para depois se transformar num incrível homem nu.
Concordo que o que se passou com ele foi grave e magoou-o imenso mas ele está a deixar que o ódio o consuma, para além de revelar um comportamento arrogante e um tanto infantil.Também são reveladas mais algumas informações sobre o Ash. Como eu já li o livro dele, o que foi revelado não me surpreendeu.
