https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1512739.The_First_2_000_Years
This book was interesting to read, but if a person wants to read this book, they need to do so with the idea in mind that Skousen writes from his point of view and not necessarily writes facts. Nevertheless, much of what Skousen writes in this book makes a person ponder and search the scriptures for themselves.
Back when I was an LDS adherent, I read it, understood the origin of it and the "logic" of it but looking back, it's apparent that the man had zero critical thinking skills whatsoever and made up the majority of the trip out of his own head as opposed to actually sourcing any legitimate information.It's a clear study on the extreme lengths people can go in order to support or rationalize their arbitrarily nutty beliefs.If you pick it up to read, skip to the appendices first.
Some great science fiction mixed with religion there.
L. Ron Hubbard should feel challenged!LMAO--Wag--
Such a great way to bring the Old Testament to life! I am pretty weaksauce when it comes to reading things like the Old Testament from cover to cover, but Skousen's interpretations make the Bible digestable, more real. He doesn't have an answer for everything, but he has at the very least plausible explanations for most things found in the Bible.
Skousen achieved this level of visibility by writing books like The First 2,000 Years and its subsequent follow-ups, as well as other treatises relating to government, communism, and Latter-day Saint doctrine.
A good example of an author who does pay a great deal of attention to what has been said by modern Prophets and Apostles while still maintaining his own speculations and conclusions is the book Earth in the Beginning, also written by a Skousen but I'm not sure of the relationship.
The First 2,000 Years is the first of several books of commentary written by Skousen regarding the Bible, as well as other Latter-day Saint scripture.
I enjoyed reading about the events in the Old Testament due to the fact that the Old Testament has some of my most favorite scripture stories.BUT: Although I enjoy Skousen, and he does site references, I still feel that his books are filled with opinion.
I do take to heart that what he writes may be personal opinion, but for me, it is still fun to read...keeping that in mind.
Whether completely accurate or not, it still gets me thinking more about the messages in the scriptures and gets me excited to hopefully someday know the real stories and facts of what is written in the scriptures.
I'm sure there are some good insights and thoughts in here, but I just felt like most of it was purely his own speculation and theory and it bothered me that he was presenting it as fact (one of my pet peeves, when authors' are misleading with opinions vs. facts). So that just made me feel too uncomfortable with it to finish reading it. I think for religious purposes I'd rather stick to accepted doctrines.
This book is crazy. But the old testament is crazy too. I love the book but I do keep in mind it's purpose which I believe is to help get you thinking about the o.t. In a new way. That new way is not necessarily the only way or the correct way just one mans thoughts on a text that is no matter what going to be tough to swallow.
Good commentary on the Old Testament. A bit of a stretch in places. HOWEVER, in the appendix there is an article about why we need the Atonement which ought to be required yearly reading for everyone on the earth. EXCELLENT!!
This book gave me a whole different feeling about the bible. It brought it to life so I felt I really knew the characters in the first 2000 years of this earth's history.
Skousen view on blacks was out dated and slightly races
It’s a long book and took a little longer than usual because he has questions to be answered at the end of each chapter kind of like taking a test.
I went ahead and answered all the questions.
Excellent book with lots of great insights and information about the beginning of time on this earth all the way up through Abraham.
He has a second look after this one which covers the second 2000 years.
It will be good review to go back and look at my answers to his questions from time to time.
Fantastic study resource!This makes it so much easier to understand so many Bible stories. It really analyzes all the related scriptures and fills in the gaps in ways that make the stories which often seem outlandish to make a whole bunch more sense.
Fascinating, one I want to read again and again.
PGA lot of what he has to say about the first 2000 years of this earth is interesting, but not necessarily true.
Loved Brother Skousen!!!!!!1
Skousen's books are always informative, but he does have a tendency to interject his views and present them as factual and authoritative when they may not actually be so.
He has given me a lot to think about, however.
it gives information about intelligences above and beyond what is presented to us in the sparse scriptures that are available currently on that topic.
This is just one example where I believe Skousen was presenting his opinion as fact.
He's given me much to ponder, but I think it's best to be careful.
Amazing insight and history on Adam and Eve, Cain, Noah, Enoch, and Abraham.
Seems like it would be an intense read, but was actually very enjoyable.I love bible stories and the amazing things we can learn from them, but I often get lost when it comes to the history of the bible.
I don't agree with all of the conclusions that Skausen draws, but still loved ready his insights.
The author takes full responsibility for conclusions reached...he will heartily welcome the results of additional research which will further clarify our knowledge of human history during the first 2000 years."I love this.
It talks about things like why Adam was given charge to rule over Eve, why we can trust Moses' account of Genesis, and how many people were probably on the earth at the time of Noah...I wouldn't have thought there would be very many people, because it would take a long time for two people to fill the earth...but when you take into account that everyone had a child-bearing span of 400 years, there were probably more people on the earth at the time of the flood than there are right now.
It was like going to a really good gospel doctrine class every time you read it.
Skousen's books are an easy read, even though they are very detailed.
He references his sources frequently, which is helpful, and lets the reader know if an idea is only speculation on his part.
He also frequently quotes the scripture directly instead of making the reader stop and pick up the scripture to read the reference, which can be cumbersome, especially if the reference is to another book of scripture than the one you have open on the desk.
I get a much clearer picture of what is happening in my scripture reading if I read Skousen after I have read from the scripture itself.
This book is definately a slow read due to the complexity of the subjects.
Made for lots of thinking, pondering, wondering.
I would definately need to read it again, as I'm sure this is one of those books you can't read just one time and really get everything out of it that is there.
I have some impatience with books that require me to think too much, so sometimes it was hard for me to "stick to it", but was definately worth taking the time to read.
This is a "think as you read" type of book.Year of research went into this book, and you can tell.
The author had a way of blending disparate hints and clues from the text of the scriptures and blending it into a cohesive narrative picture of what things were like in that time.
There are many excellent thoughts and insights, but this book needs to be read with caution because there are some areas where the author imposes his own interpretation or imaginative filler detail of the narrative in a way that adds to the pathos of the story, but is not necessarily how things really are.
There were however many excellent doctrinal insights as well.
Its worth reading, it generates a lot of food for thought and further study.
There are 3 books in this series.
I read them awhile ago and have now inherited copies from my Grandfather I could lend out.
They really help me while reading the Old Testament.
Skousen took all the material and placed it in chronological order so you can easily see how things fit together in time.
My favorite was this book becuase I find that time period the most interesting personally.
The next two books were also great in studying the Old Testament and I learned a lot more than I would have with the Scriptures alone.
I learned A LOT from reading this book.
It is very dense and not a quick read, but it was worth the effort.
I appreciated being able to put everything into a proper perspective and see how beautifully the Old Testament flows from one generation to the next.
There were quite a few times when Skousen told the reader what these great men and women were thinking and put words into their mouths.
A great resource for gaining more understanding, but definitely not a replacement for learning from the original source and by the gift of the Spirit.

P. 75: The gift of the Holy Ghost quickens the spirit or the "inner man" and gives us the motivation to dominate our physical environment and mold it to conform to our spiritual needs as well as our temporal. It makes us "more alive" spiritually. After being thus quickened through the gift of the Holy Ghost the human personality is often noticeably changed so that personal refinement, the comprehension of deep gospel themes and the manifestation of tenacious loyalty to ideals and principles become prominent attributes which replace gross fleshy weaknesses of the past.
This book sat on my bookshelf gathering dust for two years before I finally got around to opening the cover. It will really open your eyes to a lot of things about the creation and the great flood that I thought I knew and realized I really didn't. It will also add to your appreciation and understanding of the Pearl of Great Price. It was a little hard for me starting but then I really found it amazing.
This book is amazing! This is the second time I've read this one and I love reading anything and everything written by Skousen. It is really informative and is a quick read. I like that it gives you enough details and insights without getting bogged down. I had a hard time putting it down even the second time and I can't wait to start on the next book. I would reccommend this book to anyone who wants to delve a little deeper into the Bible and the first 2,000 of mankind.
I read this in the early 1990's and found it very fascinating at the time as Skousen seemed to explain the workings of the cosmos with such certainty and detail that I was converted and thus I took his opinion as doctrine. That was in my youth. As a philosophical work this remains interesting as a sort of unintentional exposé on LDS cognitive dissonance at work. For that, I give it three stars.
{re-reading}This is the first of 3 books, [considered classics] detailing biblical history. The books use material from the "Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints". Largely Supposition, the author has an entertaining writing style, and thought provoking insight. Scripture 'footnotes' document the authors' positions throughout the text.
A great and comprehensive compilation of the beginnings of man. Skousen uses all known text to give a complete story. He fills in the blanks, from revelation to obscure text to the bible. In my opinion he helps make sense of the overall picture.I loved reading it and will go back to it again and again. A classic in my opinion!
