https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63032.2666
the english version hasn’t come out yet. it comes out in november. no spoilers. just here to make three points:1) the blood and guts2) the disaster3) the women1) y’know that bookbuzz you get when you’re walking around the world and it’s all colored with the life of the book you’re reading? 894 pages of bolano’s epic and i felt like the guy in those 50s sci-fi movies who gets shrunk down real small and is injected into someone’s body. except it’s a book. and i’m in there flapping around amongst t
just here to make three points:1)	the blood and guts2)	the disaster3)	the women1) y’know that bookbuzz you get when you’re walking around the world and it’s all colored with the life of the book you’re reading?
what matters, what’s actually happening over there on a sociocultural level is infinitely more horrifying – the women of juarez are being physically treated as they’ve been spiritually and symbolically regarded for a long time.
i don’t know if it’s a ‘great’ book.
Michael Berger writes, "The sheer audacity of the novel is that it reads at times as the ultimate indictment of Bolaño’s gender, his own dreams and desires, and especially the culture of machismo, gangsterism, and tyranny that passes for masculinity in many parts of the world." A review from the New York Magazine Book Review claims that Bolaño humanizes not only the women and their families but the corrupt police and even the murder suspects.
It makes for an interesting contrast with Ellroy's My Dark Places, which covers some similar ground -- women being raped and murdered, and a subverted detective story -- but where Ellroy gets lost in the oedipal glamour of all that violence, Bolaño takes a stark look at the economics and wider misogyny of a society and forces us to see the pages of raped and strangled young factory workers for what they are, without any romance or horseshit whatsoever....Which gets me to what I really love best about this writer: put simply and meaninglessly, the way he writes about all the bad and good things of this world.
I wish I had the time to write a deep thought provoking essay on this modern masterpiece but instead I will write a few words about how I felt about this book and how greatly it impacted me.This book hurt my brain and touched my heart.
I sometimes would avoid reading it out of fear and other times for confirmation of the organized chaos that is life.Stories swirled within stories.
I felt my life view validated and then at the same time refuted often within the span of a few paragraphs.This book tore me apart but then thankfully reconfigured me; sometimes for the better and sometimes not.
Bolaño infuses an almost mock-documentary element to the novel, and begins in familiar territory for those who have read him before, with four literary critics from different European countries who are united by their obsession for the German novelist Benno von Archimboldi, of whom little is known, other than he is very tall, in his eighties, and disappeared sometime in early adulthood.Although there are many side stories tied in, where people come and go, some show up later, some don't, it's main focal point is that of the elusive German writer, and the mass killings of women in the border-town of Santa Teresa, Mexico (a fictional Ciudad Juárez where Bolaño became so obsessed by real murders he set about finding out everything he could about them).
A fellow classmate said that this was as daunting, as time consuming, as reading El Quixote, but I would like to add that the epic convention from Cervantes which was for all future writers to follow is also an innovation mirrored with 2666—here is what new literature really means.
Also, Bolaño is the only writer to have ever, in my estimation, emulated the great Marquis de Sade in his infamous book within 2666 about the murders in Mexico and its crazed logic which no one can solve.
&, like in true, harrowing life, there are dreams & oracles, strangeness and beauty and ugliness, almost always the trio of these found in one.
And their work makes itself available to this kind of literary leapfroggery because of its overtly moribund self-reference: there is no "2666" as a singular novel without the idea of "Bolano" as an already-consecrated literary martyr, just as there may be no individual "Vertigo," "Austerlitz," "The Emigrants," et al., as novels, without the classical fantasy of "Sebald," as an idol of immediate eternity, to connect them all.For me, the most significant failing of "2666" is that it is not convincing *as* a novel, as a unified world inhabited by a variety of imaginary real people whose lives are in our hands.
Each of these places has a metaphorical significance for Bolano.During the war (Part 5), 500 Jews are exterminated (in the forest) by compliant local administrators in a matter of weeks, while in Santa Teresa, northern Mexico (Part 4), we see 105 women and girls raped and murdered over five years.It's an average of 21 per annum, but they're not just statistics - they all have names, ages, identities, families and causes of death.Part 4 wasn't as explicit or harrowing as I had anticipated.
We were both written by dead guys and now they have cruelly pitted us against each other for the tacky reality-tv-WWF-style pleasure of this muesli-slurping self-congratulatory wiseacre goodreads crowd.
Is that a thing?2666 : what?IJ : what?2666: you’re my best mateIJ : we rule you know.
(addressing the crowd) You fuckers had better realise that2666: yes or you might end up in Part FourIJ : ha ha, good one2666: let’s get out of this fucking placeIJ : I’ll buy you a drink if you can stand it2666 : fuckThe two giant novels lumber over the ropes of the ring and out into the world of bars, reviewers and the blinding sunshine of cruelty.
Which ones?Friend # 2:"By the time I finished, I was left with more questions than answers...What is 2666 really all about?"In the Notes to the First Edition, it says "...2666 itself, the date upon which the hole novel rests." So, it is like the vanishing point not only when everyone in the novel would be dead but when the world would end (prophetic Bolano?).Friend # 3:"But, as you read, it becomes evident that the stories and motifs are going nowhere"Yes, this could be true only if you did not read carefully or until the last page.Friend # 4:"If you are looking for punishment and a reason to quit, head to Part IV."True, but I think the idea here is to desensitize the reader about those repeated mention of rape and murder.
Στο δεύτερο μέρος, βλέπουμε την ιστορία ενός χιλιανού καθηγητή πανεπιστημίου που ζει στη Σάντα Τερέσα του Μεξικό με την κόρη του, μια πόλη στην οποία δολοφονούνται καθημερινά γυναίκες.
Οι κοπέλες βιάζονται βάναυσα και δολοφονούνται με κάθε δυνατό αποτρόπαιο τρόπο αλλά στην πραγματικότητα δεν πρόκειται για κάποιο αξιοσημείωτο γεγονός μια και τα θύματα έχουν δύο χαρακτηριστικά που κάνουν τα εγκλήματα αυτά, όσο συχνά και φρικιαστικά κι αν είναι, να φαίνονται κοινά, ασήμαντα: είναι γυναίκες και είναι φτωχές εργάτριες ή πόρνες, που στην κοινή συνείδηση των κατοίκων της μικρής πόλης συχνά είναι το ίδιο.Για το πέμπτο μέρος δεν λέω πολλά, γιατί δε θέλω να κάνω κάποιο spoiler, αλλά είναι το μέρος που ο Bolano επιβεβαιώνει στον αναγνώστη αυτό που είχε καταλάβει ήδη από τις πρώτες 20 σελίδες: ότι είναι μια ιδιοφυΐα.Δεν περιγράφεται αυτό το βιβλίο.
The main evil is epitomized by a large number of murders and rapes of women in the fictional town of Santa Teresa in northern Mexico, which is modeled after a real epidemic in Juarez starting around 1993.
That the three men take turns being in love with the one female scholar highlights their of interchangeability, as in the Paul Simon line about Celia: “When I came back to bed, someone’s taking my place.” Pursuit of the personal life of an author as a key to understanding their work reminds me of the absurd interest by literati in the lives of writers like Salinger and Pynchon.
Roberto Bolaño's 2666 definitely changed the way I read fiction.
I first read this massive posthumous tome years ago when I was still searching to uncover my own style and much of this novel lodged itself into the dark corners of my mind.
Bolaño's writing covers the spectrum of styles: dark and brooding, poetic and lyrical, dry and empty while still stunningly gorgeous.
By the time we get inside Archimboldi's head and experience his world after the long lead up, the reward is intensely satisfying.
Like a benevolent version of McCarthy's "The Judge" from BLOOD MERIDIAN, Archimboldi is unforgettable.Bolaño proves that plot *can* be overrated.
Each book has its own narrative identity while retaining the Bolaño stamp: sprawling sentences savaged by commas, a free indirect style where dialogue blends with prose and narrative position hops from person to person, strange poetic waves of readable and glorious prose, and nasty sex.
Almost three hundred pages of clinical descriptions of increasingly repulsive murders, here the hot sticky hell of Santa Teresa sets your face on fire for a punishing tour through Dante’s Inferno.
A few times in the book, the story moves from third to first person without warning and some sentences go on for pages.
Καθημερινά συμβαίνουν μικρά και μεγάλα γεγονότα που έχουν μικρή,μεγάλη και κοσμοϊστορική σημασία για τον κάθε άνθρωπο ξεχωριστά,μία ομάδα ανθρώπων ή την κοινωνία συνολικά.Η ανάγνωση του "2666" είναι, λοιπόν, ένα κοσμοϊστορικό γεγονός για μένα.Ίσως να μην υπάρχει κάποιος που να έχει μιλήσει τόσο πολυεπίπεδα για το θάνατο,τη φρίκη και τον έρωτα.Αυτό ΤΟ βιβλίο,ο "Οδυσσέας" του Joyce και το "Εκατό χρόνια μοναξιά" του Marquez αποτελούν την δικιά μου Αγία Τριάδα.
A vague sense of unease permeates the novel.But 2666 celebrates its imperfection: it is loose and sprawling; it makes no attempt to generate a tidy narrative; its general thesis is elusive, as is even the meaning of its title.
The reader is constantly forced to engage with the author to question every aspect of the novel.
Bolaño uses endless ambiguity to force the reader to personally confront every question directly.
As a novel its nature and meaning are elusive, but it reveals something rare and indefinable.
Daha ilk 200 sayfada anlıyorsunuz ne denli büyük bir eser olduğunu, çok büyük bir keyifle okuyorum.Çevirmen Zeynep Heyzen Ateş'in de ellerine sağlık, kusursuz bir çeviri yapmış, akıp gidiyor, hiç rahatsız etmiyor.---Kitabın yarısından çoğunu okudum ve hala devam ediyorum.Bu devasa eser hakkında yazılan tüm övgülere katılıyorum.
Kimi yerlerde 2666 için "Bolano ölümle yarışarak bitirdi" deniyor ve bana kalırsa kitabın kendi hızı göz önünde bulundurulunca bu çok doğru.Stephen King'in de dediği gibi “Bu doğaüstü roman tasvir edilemez; bütün ihtişamıyla yaşanması gerekir.” O kadar devasa ve yaşam dolu ki anlatmak imkansız.
Κάποτε υπήρχαν 10 τρόποι για να γράψεις ένα μυθιστόρημα και αυτό να χαρακτηριστεί ολοκληρωτικό. O Μπολάνιο επινόησε τον 11ο τρόπο γράφοντας το 2666.
The fourth part is the heart of the book, about the nineties femicides, the murders (and usually rapes) of 112 young, poor, and mostly uneducated women in the Juarez area of Mexico, in the state of Sonora (though he calls the city Santa Teresa).
I thought this part was somewhat dryly mocking the self-involved critics, who only write about literature and not about the problems of the world.The second section is short, about a Chilean professor of philosophy named Óscar Amalfitano, who travels with his daughter to Santa Teresa, but hears of the femicides so worries about his daughter Rosa.
Maybe I do it too much.I think it was in the second part that a character notices that a young man prefers the minor works of authors such as A Christmas Carol to the messy battling it out with oneself works like the Pickwick Papers or A Tale of Two Cities (I prefer Bleak House myself.
Maybe I'm not alone in too much eye shutting?D'oh the afterword quotes that part and it said something about the books that tackled the big issues that affect us all.
Αυτό το κεφαλαίο είναι ίσως, μαζί με το τελευταίο, από τα αγαπημένα μου.Εκεί, λοιπόν, που είμαι έτοιμη να προχωρήσω με τα μπούνια στο δεύτερο συνειδητοποιώ ότι δεν έχουμε πλέον ως πρωταγωνιστές τους παραπάνω κριτικούς, αλλά τον καθηγητή του Πανεπιστημίου της Σαντα Τερέσα, Αμαλφιτάνο.
Πρόκειται για ένα αριστούργημα με τον Bolaño να μας δείχνει όλο το εύρος του ταλέντου του.Δεν θα σας πω αν αξίζει ή δεν αξίζει να διαβάσει κάποιος αυτό το βιβλίο, αλλά θα σας πω με βεβαιότητα ότι μέσα μου κάτι άλλαξε από τότε που το διάβασα.
They hear about the many killings of young women and girls in and around Santa Teresa (part 4) and meet Amolfitano, a Spanish/Catalan academic who lives there, and is the subject of Part Two. At the end of this section very little is resolved other than the ménage, and none of the critics appear in any of the later parts.The second book (The Part about Amolfitano) is the shortest, and despite its title is largely about Amolfitano's ex-wife Lola, who leaves him to pursue a homosexual artist who resides in a lunatic asylum.
So many intelligent and thoughtful reviews already exist for 2666 that another, one from the School of Redundancy School, seems like a waste of time that would be better spent rereading any of Bolaño’s works. This is one that will haunt me, one for my To Reread shelf, then for my To Rereread shelf. What I look forward to most—Bolaño-freak that I am—are the inevitable volumes of Bolaño criticism to come and the opportunity to reread RB’s writing along with them, bumping what now are 4-star ratings to 5-star ratings, and mourning the day that we lost him.
The novel is really five novellas, thematically tied together, and centering around the fictional Santa Teresa (Cuidad Juarez in our world) where hundreds of young women are being raped and murdered.
Part 2 tells the story of a college professor named Amalfitano, who is slowly losing his grasp on reality after moving to Santa Teresa with his teenage daughter.
Part 4 leaves us in Santa Teresa to give us an eyes held open (think "A Clockwork Orange") look at this border town and her merciless murders.
The concluding chapter on Archimboldi depicts the convoluted passage as he fights for the Third Reich on the Eastern European front to his early writing career amid the malice and impunity of Holocaust ruins and bringing a rational closure to the double-crossing enigma when he travels to Santa Teresa in his twilight years.Evil is omnipresent; excavating perished horrors.
"The erection of the Tabernacle(tent of meeting),God's dwelling-place among his people, occurs in the year 2666 after God creates the world, two-thirds of the way through a four thousand year era which culminates in or around 164 BC, the year of the rededication of the Second Temple."On the contrary, Santa Teresa harshly conflicts the sanctified significance as it resembles a cosmic cemetery of unearthed spirits.
When I was originally reading this book with good reader friend Dave, and by chance I was driving through the great concavity called Texas, near Ciudad Juarez, (the Real City from which Bolaño wrote Santa Teresa into Infrarealism), Dave informed me that he had read that a real life border patrol agent not too far from my proximity felt the compulsion to do some of the brutal things that fictional men do to women (and girls) in this novel.At another time, Right Now, a Sonora comes across the sky of Mexican border city, Tijuana.
Each of the five parts are told from the perspective of different characters, but Archimboldi's writing plays a part in all as does Santa Teresa and the murders.
On top of that I find out now that Roberto Bolano uses a lot of the same motifs in his previous books, which, ah hell, now means I need to read them all and probably be consumed by each and every one of them in turn.More accessible than Proust and Pynchon put together, I was driven the entire time to finish the book to find out the meaning of the number on the cover.
The success of 2666 is its lament over the brutality of humanity, the vivid horror and tension of the world it creates, the countless narratives that sometimes entwine but mostly disintegrate into thin air, that linger or appear later like memories of dreams (another world that Bolano likes to explore; almost all of his characters dream at some point, even the very minor ones, and we learn a great deal about them and the novel in general through these dreams; they suggest a symbology and initiate recurring motifs that end up connecting, in unexpected and strange ways, the five rather dissimilar parts).
In short, it is a book that talks about life, living, society, culture, pain, brutality and much more within its ginormous pages!Bolano’s 2666 introduces you to a variety of characters with different ideologies, thought processes, habits, needs, wants, sexual preferences, lifestyles, not to mention different criminals, their differing motives and intents as well as different types of crimes.
I mean, they are popular beyond expectation and reputation :: 15 and 16 thousand plus ratings.
Thirdly, both are kind of diagnostic of something sick in society -- rape and murder in one (thank you for tell not show), trash in another (am I the only one who wanted more trash, less baseball?) Fourthly, they’re both realist novels.
(Thanks to Friend aidan for providing this contrast in filing as have-read.....) But basically what I’m saying is that these two tomes, as fine as they both are in pretty much every novelistic category of judgement, neither was revelatory for this reader.
