https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11161887-the-big-trip-up-yonder
Although it does not describe the future in general, it focuses on two themes: how to prolong life by inventing an anti-aging medicine, super anti-Gerasone and the effects of this idyllic concept.The original title of the book was TOMORROW and TOMORROW and TOMORROW and it was published in 1983.
The author himself, Kurt Vonnegut, predicted by writing a story what it is like in the future when there is such an anti-aging medicine.
In the story, the clan of the Schwartz family headed by 172-year-old Harold, along with his 22 descendants, lives together in the same house since the population of the world is no longer “genocidal”.
"We said that a hundred years ago!"Set in a world which has created an anti-ageing potion and has resulted in too many people, this rib tickling piece has brought my so much joy.
The quote must have made it clear that this isn't just a story meant to make one laugh.
Why is philosophy often read in a serious manner?Here, I read what I have known for many years.
Like the Ford family, I have been a prisoner in my own house, in my own mind.A truly delightful read!
I'd recommend reading it twice, once for the humour and again for its layers.
Ugh, can't imagine being stuck in the same room as my immediate family, never mind my extended one. Question: Do these people not masturbate? How do they have sex? Do they have sex in front of their family? Or does the daybed have a schedule for that? *shudder*
The future Vonnegut depicted is, strangely, no different from the present reality.
Such illusion of possession!)...And all of these done under a unique tale of a never-aging and ever-expanding Fords family which, if viewed merely as it is, seems to live in the worst kind of family reality show -- with not enough space and not enough privacy from the overpopulated house.
Yet, the way Vonnegut weaves all the subtle meanings with this extraordinary sci-fi story is just creative and effectively brilliant in portraying the silliness and seriousness of its intentions.
Humorous, futurist suspense.
I only scanned other reviews of this short story, but it looks like many did what I did, which was read this close behind "2BR02B." This comes across like a prequel to that, at least in terms of setting (during the overpopulation that has been resolved by "2BR02B").
This time, however, the characters came across better, even though these are more idea-driven than character-driven stories.
I believe it was Vonnegut's appropriate use of adverbs that made the darkly humorous action easy to visualize, like "Everyone looked helpfully at Lou, who held up his hand resignedly." Subtle and effective.
Vonnegut takes the same road as in 2BR02B and gives a family with the eldest member of the age 172.
Gramps, as he is called lives with his complete family and with his senility and grumpiness, keeps all of them on their toes.
The little transgressions of the family members can lead to amendment of the will which has the most important clause as who is going to get the most comfortable bed in the house and who will end up sleeping near the toilet.
When our Gramps finds out that someone tried to play a little trick with his anti-aging medicine, the senility is promptly replaced by foxy conniving.
Kurt Vonnegut's creativity is great as usual. Imagining the future in a believable way, without any cliche, is quite hard and he does it extremely well.However, I didn't enjoy it as much as 2BR02B, which I read a long time back. I guess it's because I've already experienced the overpopulation theme, and hence this book didn't affect me so much now.I'd recommend this book to be read along with 2BR02B.
I always enjoy Vonnegut's forward-thinking cleverness, with small touches that reveal so much. This story questions the wisdom of perpetual longevity through the lens of privacy and loss of comfort due to over-population.
In a world where nobody dies, nobody leaves home, because it's so crowded there's no place to move to. A short story and companion piece to "2BR02B" about the sci fi implications of solving aging and death.
Unsettling story and to be honest, i had to wiki to get the premise n plot. Not proud :P
I've only read a couple of Kurt Vonnegut's stories and so far I've loved them both. Can't wait to read more. Excellent sci fi, really weird concepts.
Short story about an overcrowded planet where aging has been stopped, all generations look the same, and jail has luxurious privacy and facilities.
Lol this is a short witty read I never knew I needed. It feels weird that I randomly chose this, a satire about death and aging, after I just finished The Subtle Art of Not Giving A Fuck, which its latest chapter is also about death. My first Kurt Vonnegut! Lighter than Philip K. Dick, but still makes me think nonetheless.
Funny short piece from Vonnegut about a "generational" apartment in an overpopulated, resource poor future where people have unlocked the secret of immortality. Like The Journey of Joenesby Robert Sheckley, people actually try to either break into jail or get convicted of a crime, because life there is better than on the outside :)
How I wish I could turn back time and make Vonnegut write a novel based on this! What a grand, amazingly developed idea it is in its 10 pages of colorful language and devastating remarks...
Short story that doesn't even seem Vonnegutian, nor particularly memorable or interesting.
Now where can I score some anti-gerasone?
Great short story!
Originally published in 1954 by the magazine Galaxy Science Fiction, Kurt Vonnegut's short story  The Big Trip Up Yonder  is set in the year 2185 in a time in which old age has been defeated. The main character is Gramps Ford, a man that was 70 when anti-gerasone, the cure to aging was created. He has been 70 years old for 102 years. He is grumpy, vindictive and generally unpleasant - much like you would expect for a man that has has been 70 years old for 102 years.Galaxy Science Fiction was des
He is grumpy, vindictive and generally unpleasant - much like you would expect for a man that has has been 70 years old for 102 years.Galaxy Science Fiction was designed to be thoughtful science fiction rather than laser guns and explosions driven science fiction and Vonnegut's style fits the bill perfectly.
It becomes crowded - so crowded that privacy is a rarity and people are forced to live cheek-by-jowl with their families in hallways, living rooms and the like.If you have ever seen a movie or a TV show in which greedy family members are waiting around the family manor for the eldest family member (who changes the will frequently) to die you will immediately understand the premise of this short story.
But, Gramps can't die because he never ages.
Gramps Ford, his chin resting on his hands, his hands on the crook of his cane, was staring irascibly at the five-foot television screen that dominated the room. On the screen, a news commentator was summarizing the day's happenings. Every thirty seconds or so, Gramps would jab the floor with his cane-tip and shout, "Hell, we did that a hundred years ago!" Emerald and Lou, coming in from the balcony, where they had been seeking that 2185 A.D. rarity--privacy--were obliged to take seats in the b
Gramps Ford, his chin resting on his hands, his hands on the crook of his cane, was staring irascibly at the five-foot television screen that dominated the room.
Every thirty seconds or so, Gramps would jab the floor with his cane-tip and shout, "Hell, we did that a hundred years ago!"
All save Gramps, who was somewhat withered and bent, seemed, by pre-anti-gerasone standards, to be about the same age--somewhere in their late twenties or early thirties.
For them, the poignancy of the prospective Big Trip had been dulled somewhat, through having been mentioned by Gramps about once a day for fifty years.
It is much lighter than 2BR02B, although this would be expected considering this story focuses on a crowded house compared to 2B's focus on the solution to the population problem and the associated problems for the individuals.
This was a story that made me chuckle and smile, as well as feel mildly horrified at the thought of being crammed into a house with several generations of my own relatives.The Big Trip Up Yonder is worth a read for its interesting sci-fi concept, its tie in with 2BR02B (also worht a read), and its enjoyable lightheartedness.
I had never read this particular story by Vonnegut before, but as with his others, I loved it.
I like the dark topics he tackles, while managing to keep the stories humorous and light-hearted, but I especially respect his ability to use humor without taking away from the importance of whatever point he is trying to make.
I enjoy his style of writing, particularly his ability to stay far away from wordiness, by using shorter sentences and getting to the point.
The ending of this story I particularly enjoy.

Not really my favorite story.
Another quick break-time read, this struck me as a true testament to the idea of human nature/evolution.
Not just with the idea of the anti-gerasone and anti-aging, but with the Ford family struggling with life while waiting for a death.
I'm not personally familiar with anyone waiting on a will from a rich family member, most likely because it's not a topic of conversation...ever.
But the conditions the Family places themselves in just to set up a future (they won't even have time to live) is extremely unsettling.
Two Vonnegut shorts in, and I think I can really get into his work.
It is actually quite a fun short sci-fi story.
In this world, everybody is on antisyrogin.
This prevents that you get older.
People of 120 look 30 etcetra.
Generations share the same house and everything is ordered by time (eating etc).
It really put you up to think how it would be indeed if nobody would die anymore.
Would you like it to share a 1 bedroom appartment with 20 persons?
Sleeping in front of the bathroom, hallway, actually everywhere?This book is published in 1954, and probably, Kurt saw this as the future.
Lukily, it is not that far yet :).
Read this due to some hangover B2RO2B caused, although I'll have to remark that this story is lighter in comparison to the other mentioned.
This story tells of again, a society wherein everybody lives well past 100 but somehow makes fun of it as Gramps's and his heirs' story of how cramped they all are in his house unfolds before the reader's eyes.
Vonnegut does good in this genre, I would daresay.
I've yet more to read from him and if this and 2BRO2B could be considered as standards of his works, then I must say that I am looking forward to more excellently written stories.
"The Big Trip Up Yonder" is yet another short genre exercise by Vonnegut that covers the same familiar turf of fun-with-an-edge-of-terror view of the near future as his other short stories, "2BR02B" and "Harrison Bergeron." This story, however, lacks the dark twist of "2BR02B" or dystopian vibe of "Harrison Bergeron." This is still a good investment of 10 minutes, especially because I found it for free on Amazon. Take it for a spin!
Vonnegut has the clever and wit of Mark Twain. He can take any modern issue and spotlight it in such a way that we can see the sheer ridiculous nature of some of our pursuits. This book is a commentary on the advancement of geriatric medicine in making us live ever longer and for what end? In his biography Vonnegut actually curses the Cigarette company that promised to kill him if he smoked their product and after 82 years of life he is still around.
