https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5056.The_Hammer_of_Eden
“Parte de los integrantes de una comuna hippie anclada en el pasado y dedicada a la producción ecológica de vino trata de hacer chantaje al Gobernador de California para evitar que el valle en el que viven se vea inundado por la construcción de una presa.
Para ello idean un método para provocar terremotos por medio del conocimiento geológico y de un camión utilizado para prospecciones petrolíferas”.Y esto es la novela.
Ken Follett used to write good stuff: The Key to Rebecca, Triple, Pillars of the Earth.
He has also written a lot of junk.
This one definitely falls into the latter category.
It revolves around an ecoterrorist group that discovers how to cause earthquakes and uses the threat to try to stop dams and nuclear generating plants.
The head terrorist is a con artist and cult leader who became a millionaire operating liquor stores even though he is illiterate and can't even read numbers, then dropped out and started a commune.
More equally believable stuff follows.
I can't believe I read the whole thing.
A few wackos living in a commune in northern California figure out how to cause earthquakes and then use that knowledge to threaten California with more earthqueakes if more power plants are built.
He does a good job of setting out the characters of his books and then putting them in situations that are exciting.As I was reading this book I was thinking yes it is enjoyable story but not too believeable.
Then I picked up the newspaper and read how the Swiss had stopped their thermal nuclear program because it was causing earthquakes.
Maybe it will be a possiblity for terrorists to threaten earthquakes someday.
viel zu wenig Spannung und für mich total unsympathische Charaktere Der Klappentext hatte mich neugierig gemacht, vor allem durch die Hippie Kommune, da mich so ein Leben sehr interessiert: fernab von Strom, Stress und unerfüllbaren Erwartungen.Erzählt wird das ganze aus den Perspektiven von Priest, der schon seit den Anfängen der Kommune dabei war.
Sie ist ein ziemlich klischeehaftes Bild einer nicht für voll genommenen Frau, die in der beruflichen Männerwelt unterzugehen scheint.Ken Follett zeichnet ein sehr gutes und überschaubares Bild der Lebens- und Denkensweise der Charaktere, allerdings waren sie mir alle nicht so wirklich sympathisch, auch wenn ich ihre Motivationen nachvollziehen konnte.
Ao centrar este livro numa comunidade relativamente excêntrica que vive isolada do resto do mundo e de acordo com as suas próprias regras sociais, Ken Follett acertou em cheio na minha curiosidade.A revindicação destas pessoas ao governo é até bastante compreensível: pretendem impedir a construção de uma barragem que os obrigará a abandonar o terreno em que se fixaram.
Gostei especialmente de ler sobre a comunidade - como funcionava, como os membros interagiam uns com os outros de acordo com uma hierarquia e como eram manipulados sem que de tal se apercebessem a ponto de olharem para o mundo exterior como degenerado, corrompido, hipócrita e ganancioso ao mesmo tempo que seguiam cegamente um homem que exibia estes mesmos defeitosEste é um livro cheio de acção e movimento.
What I really enjoyed but somewhat hated about this book is that it made me want both Judy and Priest to win.
I think Priest truely did have good intentions in the beginning but he went totally haywire, but I liked that character greatly and wanted him to win when I read from his pov, but when I read from Judy's pov I wanted her to win, lol.
Anyway Ken Follet has become one of my favourite authors because of the feel he always makes me feel towards the characters of his stories.
They always bring about some kind of strong emotion.
I am a Follett fan, but this one seemed formulaic and just old enough that the technology didn't work well. It wasn't a total waste...I listened while driving, but nothing like some of my favorites. If you want to read Follett at his best, I would suggest: Lie Down With Lions; Pillars of the Earth; World Without End; Eye of the Needle; and Night Over Water.
Listened to around thirty minutes If I try to finish this book, I may literally die of laughter. I'm in no way mature enough to listen to a book about a "seismic vibrator" -not what it sounds like- especially when coupled with the title THE HAMMER OF EDEN. I was snorting so hard it hurt.
My first book by this author. I enjoyed reading it. It is a older book of his. It had a good story to it. I liked the variety of characters in it. I hope to read more books by this author.
Brilliant. Ken Follett is such a brilliant author.
This is probably the first and I hope the last Ken Follett novel that I found absolutely amateurish.
For someone who has mesmerised the world with master pieces like 'Pillars of the Earth' and 'The Century Trilogy', this is an extremely poor novel.
The extremely silly action scenes, not just once, but every time there was a confrontation between a junkie against the entire might of the FBI complemented with elements of SWAT and all the other shizz that is required to stop a man from causing an earthquake.
Highly avoidable book, and it's a shock that Ken Follett published something like this.
Great character development and a plot with a fast pace. I like these types of thrillers in which the the cause and effect seem highly possible in a real life situation.
“Hammer” is about a cult left over from the sixties that turns into terrorists (mostly their leader) when a government project threatens to flood the land where they’ve been peacefully settled for three decades, successfully making wine to generate what little monetary income they need.
The threat is that the group will cause an earthquake – seemingly a far-fetched idea which the author makes so believable that the suspense builds throughout the entire book with little respite.
Ken Follett é Ken Follett! Ainda cheguei a pensar que o tema da narrativa não me iria prender por aí além mas enganei-me completamente! Este autor é mesmo muito bom!Crítica do Refúgio dos Livros aqui:http://refugio-dos-livros.blogspot.pt...
Oh Mr Follett, you have done so much better than this book. I have to think that everyone needs a loser now and again and unfortunately this book was a loser. It was written in a juvenile manner and the plot while it did have some "earth shattering" moments lacked any wow factor.
I didn't like Priest, or Star, or Melanie, and I got increasingly frustrated every time he escaped the FBI.
Priest was so out of the loop in technology, yet he outsmarted the FBI three times?!
The biggest issue I had was the sex scene between Priest and Melanie, and then Star came in trying for a threesome.
Melanie was not having it, and when Star touched her Melanie said no three times and was forced to then slap Star's hand away.
I was like, "she slapped you because you kept touching her after she told you to stop!!!" Ugh!
Priest and Star were irredeemable at that point.
On one side there is Priest - a villain, whose story and personality are revealed gradually, steadily building fascinating, original and multidimensional character.
On the other side we have FBI agent Judy, who could be a poster child of social justice warriors: a woman of mixed descent, who is smart and works hard, yet is terribly discriminated by her awful male boss for absolute no reason.
Her character is paper-thin and can be summarized with just a simple statement that she's perfect.
With such setup there is no other choice but root for the villain and hope that the irritating, walking perfection of agent Judy will fail miserably.
The dude can do a thriller and make you root for the good gal and the bad guy.
Che dire, è stato il mio primo "romanzone", il libro che ha dato inizio alla mia passione per la lettura. Non posso che volergli bene. Hippies che minacciano di scatenare terremoti, what else?
I've read a few of Ken Follet's books, most notably "The Pillars of the Earth," a vast, extremely enjoyable tome.
I've also read and thoroughly enjoyed "Eye of the Needle" and "The Man from St. Petersburg." In this book, Mr. Follet takes yet another direction, thriller genre for sure, but this time in the form of a group of old hippies whose commune is threatened by the building of a dam in California, and the leader, "Priest," with a less-than-upstanding-citizen" past steals a "seismic vibrator," to threaten California with earthquakes unless the governor agrees to stop production of power plants.
Denouement has a couple more surprises, which I liked, but overall too predictable, although I learned a LOT about seismology and earthquakes.
No matter, I got a LOAD of Ken Follet to read.
Quando o governador do estado da Califórnia decide instalar uma central eléctrica no vale do Rio Silver, uma pequena comuna de velhos hippies que se encontra a viver naquele local decide encontrar todos os meios para impedir tal desastre ambiental.Os Filhos do Éden assim se auto-denominam, presididos por Priest, nome utilizado por um cadastrado, juntamente com uma das suas companheiras, Star, decidem roubar um vibrador sísmico (máquina utilizada na indústria do petróleo para para explorar o subsolo), com o intuito de provocar um tremor de terra.A intenção é divulgada num programa de rádio popular, mas inicialmente ninguém dá valor a que um grupo de alucinados decide dizer.O que parece uma atitude de reivindicação por parte do grupo, que vive das colheitas para sobreviver, torna-se numa questão que vai para além de um ato de rebeldia.
A load of fun to read.
from the 4th cover, i was expectingthe usual cold-blooded terrorist threat.
In the left corner: a pacifist commune is in turmoil as a government project threatens to flood the land where they’ve been peacefully settled for three decades, successfully making wine to generate what little monetary income they need.
We root for them, and even the crafty ex-con leader, Priest, an illiterated adult.
They hatch a scheme to stop the flooding, by threatening to detonate an earthquake.
In the right corner,Judy, a competent FBI agent working under an incompetent boss who belittle her achievements.
The FBI vs an earthquake-causing cult.
Not a plot you encounter everyday but in Ken Follett' hands it becomes a fascinating battle of wits and wills.
A peaceful cult has its mountainous home and vineyards threatened by a power plant.
The psychopathic, manipulative cult leader decides to threaten and actually accomplish two earthquakes in an attempt to force the California governor to order an end to the building of all new power plots.
His fanatic ruthlessness becomes increasingly obvious as the featured FBI agent struggles to prevent a third earthquake.
"Chilling thriller" might be a slight overstatement but definitely a good read.
A reasonable plot, but very disappointing characters and language.
This is the first Follett book I have read. It starts a little slow, but as you read on you get that it is intended to be this way. As the action increases the pace follows.
I've never read a Ken Follett before but he does write a ripping yarn. Perfect holiday read.
Another great book by Ken Follett.
Just like a Bollywood movie.
Priest stumbles upon an idea that they can cause an earthquake using a seismic vibrator, which is used for Oil Exploration.
They manage to steal a seismic vibrator and issue a warning to the Governor to stop building Power Plants or face an earthquake.
The warning is ignored and they actually create an earthquake and things become serious as FBI gets in.
The group causes a second more serious earthquake after giving a warning, which is again ignored and several people die and chaos ensues.
Rest all reads like slam bang movie.
When the governor of CA announces he wants to build a damn, Star's lease is not renewed and the commune dwellers had to evacuate the land.
Priest refused to leave and hated the democratic leaders who insisted on destroying the land by building power plants.
He decides to threaten the Governor claiming he can cause an earthquake and if he did not want statewide devastation he needed to stop building power plants.
Judy Maddox is the FBI agent who uncovers Priest's past a.k.a. Ricky Granger, and does everything she can to stop the killing and destruction an earthquake can cause.
I've read Ken Follett's epics about the building of medieval castles, his giant series about generations of a US family, and even several of his WWII and Spy novels.....but this was different...When California announces plans to build several new lakes that will flood "fairly unused" territory and improve water usage for the state, the old hippies, still living in a commune with no utilities, money or conveniences are distraught and then determined to handle the situation by threatening the governor.
Thus begins a tale of planning, theft of giant machinery to set off vibrations to throw the delicately balanced subterranean plates into a full fledged earthquake.
