https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/661129.The_Baker_s_Daughter
Sue Pringle, a young woman in her early 20s who is itching to get out of her family home since her irascible widowed father (the baker of the book's title) remarried, accepts a job as live-in cook and housekeeper for an artist and his wife, who live in a renovated mill outside of town.
The parts of the plot dealing with the life of the artist and his art were interesting, and the Scottish setting and characters are lovely.
Reading D.E. Stevenson books are like wearing your coziest, comfiest jammies on a cool, lazy Sunday, sipping hot, homemade soup in bed. I L O V E her. This book is one of a very comforting formula of astute observations of honest, everyday people doing regular ol' things oozing with love.
I just love D. E. Stevenson's novels because I always find an interesting romantic story with added Scottish mise en scene feel. I just wish all her books were available via Kindle. Sue Pringle begins to enjoy life when working as a housekeeper for an artist near her home town but he is so out of her reach in so many ways and she needs to learn to forget him.
I enjoyed it well-enough, but the story really does mosey along at its own pace and Stevenson throws in a lot of side events that end up going nowhere that enhance the feeling of taking its own time.
Which isn't a bad thing if you're in the mood for an idyllic, even pastoral piece about life in a small Scottish town and a very slow-burn romance.Sue is truly charming, and that helps a lot.
I love how innocent Stevenson kept this cohabitation when it could easily have devolved into frustrated yearnings as the two develop an interest in and appreciation for each other.
There's no "owl was the baker's daughter" allusions here -- Sue actually is the daughter of a baker. A rather uncongenial one who made her leave school to keep house for him when her mother died. A decade later he remarries, and suddenly Sue has little to occupy her time. Coincidentally overhearing a newcomer to her small Scottish town asking for a housekeeper, she takes the job and finds herself living in an abandoned mill with an absent-minded artist.
His work has sold well and now he decides he will paint the countryside around Scotland (which entails renting 'Tog's Mill', up in the hills!) When the Darnays hire a new cook, Sue Pringle is more than ready to take on a job.
They miss the city life and the excitement of Paris, London, parties, and shopping.Although John Darnay encourages Sue to go back home (since his wife has left), she decides to stay on in her new job and make a go of it.As the weeks and months pass, Sue finds herself loving the countryside and hills of Scotland, taking her daily walks after her work is done.
Sue Pringle is the baker's daughter of the title.
Sue is eminently practical like her father.
I liked Sue and I could relate to her practical nature but I felt she was a little too self-sacrificing.
John is a complex character without much to do in the story except paint.
I didn't like how her grandfather was pushing her to marry his assistant but it's only natural for him to want to keep the business in the family and when his daughter didn't choose the man he would have chosen, he feels like he gets a do-over with his granddaughter.
That scene was so descriptive and the characters so appealing that I wanted more of them.
It's been a long time since i last read it so it was almost like reading it for the first time.
It had me reading til 2 am to finish it, so, as always d.
E. Stevenson is just such a readable author.
With 50 books and more to her credit, (not sure of that number), even though i gave it a 3 star rating, i still really enjoyed reading it.
There is a light touch of humor in many of her books, but that was missing here.
I don't know why I was under the impression that Sue was about 17 and that Darnay was somewhere in his 40's. I didn't find out until page 219 that Sue was 23, and I never did find out how old Darnay was. Their relationship felt more father / daughter to me and that colored my perception of the story. I just could not get behind the idea of a romance between the two of them.
D.E. Stevenson might be the L.M. Montgomery of my adulthood. Both authors write characters who make me want to be a better person.
Not one of her best-I could not warm up to Sue or Mr. Darnay. The Scotland setting was beautiful and the painting of their homeland was well done.
I love the author's Mrs. Tim books, which I own.
I really enjoy her Miss Buncle series, too, and several of her others that I've had the opportunity to read, but I hated this book so much I ended up returning it to Audible.
And the supposed love interest is a jerk.
Apparently he thinks calling women names like "uneducated savage" is sweet.
I actually love a lot of old fashioned style books, but not if the hero is simply a jerk.
Disappointing, especially as Mrs. Tim and Miss Buncle are strong, intelligent women.
I wish this heroine were more like them.
Sue Pringle jumps at the chance to be the cook at the new couple Mr and Mrs Darnays, she sees it as escape from her fathers dour moods and her step mother.
Sue decides to stay when she realises Mr Darnay is like a child, painting is in his blood and often he knows all else.
Slowly but surely she falls in love.
Lovely warmth as is characteristic of all Stevenson's books.
Quite annoyed at the ending ending for its ambiguity but the "ending" was good.
Its not as good as her others but it was sweet to read.
Sue takes a job as a housekeeper in a remote spot to get away from home and the suitor her stepmother is pushing her to accept. Sue’s new employers are a stylish young woman who holds the purse strings and her eccentric artist husband. When the wife tires of the remote locale and flits off, Sue chooses to stick to her post with predictably romantic, but complicated results. Sue’s grandparents’ are quite endearing with their own loving relationship and with Sue. Set (mostly) in Scotland.
Another interesting read, taking place in my favorite venue, small town Scotland.
I continue to be amazed at this author’s ability to describe people and locales in such a way to paint pictures in my mind.
Her characters are well developed in my opinion, and her storyline, although fairly simplistic, is believable and keeps my interest.
I really enjoy reading about life in a simpler time, in a world before electronics.
I’ll keep reading her books although I might take a break for a book or two, so I don’t OD and burn out like I did with Patrick Taylor’s books.
D.E. Stevenson is such a compelling storyteller. While her style would seem overly formal today, her real gift is in creating characters you feel like you know. And in doing so she brings to life a time that passed more than 70 years ago.
Ok- just ok. I have read a lot of WWII Germany stuff and this wasn't the best, but it was pretty good and definately worth reading.
C'est donc avec bonheur que j'ai reçu celui-ci à mon anniversaire."Dites-nous en un peu plus sur son histoire...
Mais depuis que celui-ci s'est remarié, elle ne sait plus où est sa place et c'est pour cela que lorsqu'elle apprend que les Darnay cherche une cuisinière, elle se propose tout de suite, malgré l'isolement de leur maison et le comportement fantasque du mari, peintre."Mais que s'est-il exactement passé entre vous?
La palette des personnages est un peu moins variée que d'habitude, du fait de la vie assez isolée de Sue, mais n'en est pas moins toujours aussi variée et passionnante, avec cette plume et cet humour qui ont fait le succès de l'auteur en son temps et que je redécouvre à chaque fois avec grand plaisir.
Sue Pringle, or Miss Bun, as the hero calls her, takes a job as live-in cook for an English family living in Scotland.
The very night she arrives, the wife and French maid decamp, leaving her to do double duty as cook and housekeeper to a successful artist.
When he comes to his senses, it is too late for Miss Bun. She has fallen in love with him, in spite of his being married.
Turning down an offer of marriage from a suitable man, she moves to London to help her aunt run a small hotel.How the two come together and overcome their class and age differences make for fascinating reading.
Sue Pringle agrees to be the housekeeper for artist John Darnay.
She thinks he's fine; he thinks she's funny.
SPARKS FLY.
Art, divorce lawsuits, French lessons and more art later we get our happy ever after.
I really liked this!
It was meandering but not too long.
And I enjoyed watching Sue and John figuring each other out, and developing their own special method of communication, and seeing how they fall in love and figure that love out!!
And then their separation but Sue figures it out and finds John and it's pretty great!!
Such a great little story.
Very sweet, straightforward bookI really liked this story & was surprised how fast I read it.
The plot was simple and sweet, the characters uncomplicated but thoroughly fleshed out...a little heavy handed on the “romantic” scenery (I use “romantic” in a literary sense, not candlelight and smooches), but it was part of the story and not added for its own sake.
I liked how it switched narrators even within a scene or conversation to know the thoughts of both players.
Light, but not a fluffy read.
I did wish the ending could have been more detailed, but I guess leaving things up to the imagination maintains the novel’s simplicity.
This is more of a 3 and a half star book. It kind of meanders along to its easy-to-spot-from-miles-away conclusion. I didn't quite warm up to the main character, Sue, but the supporting characters were likeable if a little stereotypical.I like the author's writing style and want to read more of her work. Miss Buncle's Book is still my favorite.
Maybe 3.75? I enjoyed this a lot while reading--it's sweet, cozy, yet insightful, with wonderful setting details (mostly of Scotland). Yet after a month, I had completely forgotten about having read it. Not sure if this is just my foggy mind of late, or that the book doesn't make much of a lasting impression. In any case, it's an enjoyable light read.
Not one of my favourites, it just doesn't ring true for Scotland in the 1930s - or even the 1970s, and strangely the author gets a crucial Scottish tradition wrong.https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/1...
Sweet and stately, Sue's story of growth and self-discovery was delightful. It's a bit jarring just how much she owed that to abject and hopeless love for her employer, Mr. Darnay, but it all rounds out well in the end once he is brought low too- it had a rather Jane Eyre feel to it.
Cute, simple read about a quaint Scottish town (1920s-ish) and a young girl turned housekeeper who ends up falling for her boss/artist.
What delightful, old-fashioned drivel!
Quaint story of Scottish villagers.
Very sweetA very sweet story. I wish Sue had learned the truth about her parents and a few other threads left hanging in the story. But overall, I enjoyed this.
Usually I am a big fan of small town stories, but this one I found rather bland.
