https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64732.The_Forge_of_God
Around the same time another faux-cinder cone is found in an Australian desert, no alien found but some robots make contact instead.
Soon the human characters discover something “off” about the alien and the robots and things escalate quickly.The plot of The Forge of God is very intriguing and I had no idea where the story will go.
Greg Bear makes more effort than most sci-fi authors to develop his characters.
I think this is the single flaw of this book, Bear spends a lot of time developing characters, and they do seem like real people, but, unfortunately, not interesting people.
With its pacing and readability, The Forge of God reminded me of a Michael Crichton novel - the kind of science fiction story where scientific plausibility reigns and the narrative structure keeps you reading.
Authors like Bradbury, Dick and Vonnegut do not spend loads of time trying to convince their readers of the scientific plausibility of the worlds they've created.
For my taste, what authors like Bradbury and Dick lack in scientific rigor, they more than make up for in the keenness of their psychological insights into human behavior and the depth of their ontological inquiries regarding humans.Which brings me back to Greg Bear.
All I kept thinking while reading this was that it felt like an Arthur C Clarke story.
You know, complicated science, great concept, crappy two-dimensional characters.
I didn't like or dislike one character.
Geologists happen across a large "rock" structure in Death Valley that wasn't there before.
While investigating, they discover an alien.
The more humans investigate and learn, the more the situation gets out of control.
It's much more complicated than this but I don't want to give anything away.I wasn't a big fan of the writing style, but then again I'm not a fan of Clarke's either.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Excellent, gripping story. Nominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)Nominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1988)
I had picked it up because I had really liked other Greg Bear novels: "Eon," "Eternity," and "Legacy." So I was expecting something fantastical on the same scale as those are.Instead, it was a dull romp through 1980s paranoid Earth.
Seems like desperation to keep the reader interested.This reminded me a lot of Arthur C.
Clarke's Rama books: no contact with the aliens, just observations of their technology.
No explanation of what the aliens (possibly up to three factions, but it was never clear) are really up to.I'm amazed I made it all the way through.
I kept hoping something interesting would be revealed, but it was not to be.
Having read and enjoyed several other Bear books, I had high hopes for this one.
It seemed to have nothing to say, no commentary to impart, and no excitement to bring, while at the same time depicting a human race that, faced with ultimate destruction, fails to attempt even the smallest action in their own defense.
Humanity is depicted as sheep being herded to slaughter with only the merest hint of retaliation being given.
Humanity learns of the threat, does absolutely nothing during the middle 2/3 of the book, following which the earth is blown to bits.
The second craft, landed in Nevada, ejects a dying alien who lives long enough to claim that "the planet-eaters" have come to destroy Earth and there's nothing that anyone can do about it.
Eventually, like Heroes, it does all come together and make sense, but I was left wondering if there isn't a better way to get there.
Perhaps it would have worked better as a short story, truncating the beginning and focusing in on the main events as they happened.

Aliens launch a covert attack on Earth with no motive ever provided. Humans are defenseless and are unable to provide even token resistance. Earth is destroyed. These are not spoilers because there's really nothing worth spoiling. This book manages to take the opening few scenes of "Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy" and drag it out over 400+ pages, without the humour or the Vogon poetry. Overall, a tiresome and forgettable read.
Excellent story.
First contact with a twist.
The reader was/is warned because this is a "prequel" that's it's a 473 set up for another book: Anvil of Stars.
Though since The Forge of God was published first, it isn't really a prequel.
Almost textbook dry in places, but balanced by lots of personal interactions and human interest.Point for pondering: In our breathless search for extraterrestrial life, we forget that if only one out of a hundred alien cultures is set on destroying all the others, guess which one's most likely to respond to our signals?
Bear's gift of creating these believable, easy to care about characters draws the reader into this extraordinary plot where the Earth is seemingly doomed.
Harry's letter to Arthur embracing James's Lovelock's theory of Gaia give their own special 'meaning' to existence, and to what's happening in this novel.
At the outset, I could never have guessed how the plot would unfold, and all the way to its ending, I knew that like King, Bear could not be trusted to bring my favorite characters through the mayhem.
Its not clear to me why this book won so many awards.
(view spoiler)[ To start with, I can think of no logic for a civilization to develop an autonomous, planet-destroying machine that serves no purpose.
It only creates more autonomous, planet-destroying machines from the rubble of the destroyed planets.
What exactly is the purpose?
Then, if you are creating an autonomous, planet-destroying machine, why would it need to come equipped with weird decoys that fuck with the inhabitants' minds just before destroying the planet?
(hide spoiler)] Also, the character development is terrible.
I've mentioned in my review of Stephen Baxter's Manifold: Time that I really enjoy the Fermi paradox and its potential solutions.
The Forge of God explores one potential solution and also dovetails nicely with Stephen Hawking's recent warning not to talk to aliens , although it doesn’t really add anything new to the concept.
This can be an interesting way to examine the end of days, like in Earth Abides, but in Forge of God it just annoyed me.I hope that one day I read a Fermi-type novel that has a unique and tasty solution that will really get me thinking.
Instead, we spend lots of time listening to hand-wringing about how the President's not going to do anything, and listening to Bear display his knowledge of Yosemite by name-checking ever feature of the park.
A waste of time.Bear would have been better off having his characters at least try to fight the invaders or find ways to resist them instead of blithely going about their visit.
Badly written, poorly plotted with weak characters, this is a bad book.I just noticed after I read this review that the book was nominated for several major scifi awards.
In short, this book is a boring apocalypse.I wish that I had read this book 15 years ago.
Another point in its favor is that this book is at least as scientifically plausible as any other Science-Fiction I've read in the last decade.However, I didn't much enjoy the book's actual writing.
The way the author speculated technology would develop (with desktop computers but no cell phones) is occasionally distracting, but quaint.
Even women who were supposed to be brilliant scholars or influential career politicians did nothing except in relation to men.
In the author's defense, the men were equally tired cliches.
Ive read many post-apocalyptic stories, but this is the first pre-apocalyptic book Ive encountered!
While in the US the scientists are getting worried, those in Australia believe the aliens are our allies....This is hard SF but its very reader friendly; there's no scientific preaching or technobabble, and despite being over 450 pages the story flows really well.
So much so I'd have to say this is the best Greg Bear book I've read so far!
There's a part where a significant political decision is looming, and it appears that it will not be made in time (suspense!
He does have something to say about those nine or so characters and how they approach the end.
Everything is built for the ending, but the author didn't have an idea as to how to make the middle plot and character development engaging.
Still, it would have been a much more enjoyable experience had that long, winding route offered more by the way of scenery and attractions.
Each time I begin reading a Greg Bear story I find myself asking why.
Bear has tons of ideas that he wanted to put into this book.
The first two thirds of this book is Bear's effort to get past the inertia created by so many people and the ideas he wants them to deliver.The last of the book is grand, I would say out of this world.
Bear delivers on a sweeping story of how he sees the most unthinkable things happening.
The story is a little dated not but not as bad as it could have been.
In 1996, Jupiter’s sixth moon Europa suddenly vanishes.
The media plays the disappearing act for a few weeks, but as usual fades from their blip screen as they believe the public is apathetic towards some obscure moon.
Scientists come up with numerous theories, but no one knows what really happened.
Most astronomers remain astounded that a relatively large object can go missing.
Though The Forge of God is well written with an engaging premise, the book falls short because Bear never seems to decide between a classic invasion tale and a psychological reaction plot.
I have tried so hard to be a Bear fan.
Another "golden oldie" of the SF genre, and part of my quest to read all past Hugo winners.
Touted as "literary SF", my expectations were high.
The characters are well developed (to a painful degree), but in a spoon-feeding manner, which I can't stand.
Furthermore, thought he cast of characters is rather wide, I found nearly every one of them uninteresting and unsympathetic (including the added "drama" of a cancer diagnosis, and the quirky theologic "meltdown" of the President Of The United States).
Overall, a pretty big dud for me, amplified by the heaps of praise that falsely raised my expectations.
It's been a while since I last read a book by Bear.
(Bears is one of the writers who made me hooked on science fiction.) Thus, I'm glad when I start reading his works again I picked a novel that I found equally exciting.
In this book, Bear kept his narrative focused in spite of the global setting.
Alien invasion is often - in my reading experience at least - expounded at the expense of the characters.
I'm glad Bear gave some depth to some in this book (Arthur and his family, Edward...).
The invasion and destruction are complete, quite convincing, and backed with understandable science in most parts.
This book revels in doom and gloom.
The characters putz around while the Earth is destroyed by an unstoppable enemy from space.
It's not only ultimately depressing, but terribly frustrating because the aliens which do make contact with the humans are, until the very end, just a bunch of fakes.
Bear looses this reader's confidence as the unnecessary plot twists mount.
But the book is missing the capstone holding the plot together: a motive.
Why would aliens up and destroy Earth?
Don't hold your breath for the answer, which is not to be found in the sequel, either.
One of the best Hard Sci-Fi books I have had the pleasure of reading.
Strong on ideas, possibly at the expense of characterisation, although this never deterred me.
This was read in the Eighties...After a second read twenty five years later the story was a lot different to what my memory thought it was.
However that said it is still great and apart from a touch of editing here and there still one of my favourite sci-fi books.
For some strange reason I always remember a dying alien in a spacecraft dominated the story.
Not sure where that idea came from???
After reading this, I was in a complete freaked out state of mind for so long. I kept wondering: How many completely seemingly inconsequential things were going on RIGHT NOW that could mean the end of the world ?
Well worth your time! It's not often that a SciFi written in the 80's and set in the 90's is still approachable and believable now but this book pulled it off. One of the best end of the world/first contact stories you'll read and full of characters you'll care about.
It's hard to discuss without giving spoilers about the plot, but I thought this book ended at an excellent place with the perfect balance of leaving things open enough for the reader's imagination to play and savour the future possibilities thrown up by the story, without any major questions sitting unanswered.Very minor spoilers: there are aliens, but the focus of the book is fully on people, and their relationships with each other and the planet Earth.
There's nothing nearly as awkward as in some of Heinlein's books though - The Forge of God was written in 1987.I'll finish by saying it's one of my favourite endings to a story in quite some time.
It was a good novel in that the format (short chapters and changing perspectives) kept you interested, but some parts were a little dull and most of the characters were one-dimensional.
I liked the premise, the overall plot, the scientific approach and the ending.
There were like three women in the entire novel who have any dialogue, but they don’t contribute anything to the plot.
Overall though, a solid novel with an interesting premise, but a bit slow and deals more with the scientific plausibility of a destructive first contact scenario than a real plot.
WOW.Imagine if someone rewrote the first twenty pages of Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (without the humour), but expanded it to an epic, hard sci-fi story with multiple characters, similar in tone and scale to Stephen King's The Stand, while written in the techno-thriller style and pace of Michael Chrichton.I'm not a big sci-fi reader, but I'm really interested to read more of Greg Bear.
I found this intriguing but ultimately unsatisfing. The description of the destruction was to clinical for me.
pretty good
