https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525285.Mission_of_Gravity
Like I said, it was very cool in concept.That being said, I kinda wish that all the awesome nuts and bolts of the world had been introduced or interspersed throughout the novel, from the human's point of view, so as to awe me in the context other than the density of the lifeforms or the fear of flying (or falling) and what might result with a splat of 300 gravities.
:)It was fun for what it was, and it does rather show that it was written back in '53, but the focus on making sure there was good science (as far as Hal, himself, could manage it,) was both admirable and ambitious, so that's where I'm placing all my stars.
So what's up?- Well, we've got a little problem here now we've reached the transition point to the polar zone.
Our boats -- Ah, let me see, is their cross-section an arc of a circle subtending an angle of 3π/2?- That's right, how did you guess?- And you're floating on a sea of an ideal fluid with density ρ?- Correct!- And the velocity of the boat is v, where v is given by...- Oh, wait, I just found it in the instructions.
what sexual positions work best at two hundred times Earth gravity?- What was that?
Well, I'm sure I'll be back soon with another physics problem...- Any time!
Mission of Gravity is, I believe, the granddaddy of hard science fiction.
For no good reason I tend to equate serious science with serious stories, imagine my surprise when Mission of Gravity turns out to be something of a romp, a good one too.
Stories where hideous aliens are blasted to smithereens by super weapons are fun but a change is as good as a rest.The plot mainly concerns a mission to retrieve a stranded manmade rocket containing valuable information which accidentally landed on one of the planet’s poles.
2.5 stars. Interesting concept of a world where gravity is 700 times that of Earth at the poles and only 3 times Earth at the equator. Ultimately, the story was not interesting enough to keep me engaged, but the scientific explanations were interesting. Nominee: Hugo (Retro) Award for Best Science Fiction Novel

He disfrutado de la parte “hard” y he conseguido leer la parte “novela”.Clásico ya de CF Hard no me parece muy recomendable a quien no disfrute de este subgénero porque ni por especies ni por personajes ni por tensión narrativa vale demasiado.Pero ¡ah!, los conceptos de un planeta con una velocidad de rotación bestia, con un achatamiento de casi 3:1, con mares de metano y mareas exageradas y con gravedades de 3 a 700 g le permite a Clement crear esta pequeña joya para los rarunos de la CF.Disfrutadla, rarunos.
En el planeta se encuentra un grupo de científicos humanos que se ven en un aprieto: deben recuperar una costosa sonda que se ha estrellado en uno de los polos.
Para ello contarán con la ayuda de los mesklinitas, en concreto del capitán Barlennan y su grupo de tripulantes.‘Misión de gravedad’ (Mission of Gravity, 1953), del estadounidense Hal Clement, es un clásico de la ciencia ficción hard.
El autor sabe imbricar muy bien los conceptos físicos en la trama, sin que estos abrumen al lector.
En resumen, interesente libro del pionero de la ciencia ficción hard, sin duda una de las más estimulantes ramas del subgénero.
Often cited as one of the bedrock works of "hard" science fiction, this extremely well-constructed little novel paints wonders of chemistry, biology, and physics, but crowns its triumph with a touching and developed portrait of an alien species with their own peculiar neuroses and ambitions.
A world where gravity varies so dramatically that the only way life could make it would be in a form drastically different than the bipedal one we humans enjoy.The Mesklines are written in such a way that it's hard to remember that they are actually only several inches long and a few inches high.
They're a likable lot, even Barlennan, even though he's a bit of a rascal.Mission of Gravity is a hard science fiction novel.
Clement did his best to present a realistic view of how gravity, physics, etc, work on Mesklin.
Just Newtonian Physics pushed to the edge.Second, the motivation of the (largely offstage) human characters is all science all the time.
They want to know stuff.
Which is how it ought to be, because next to a world like Mesklin everything else is pretty boring.Third, the narrative arc of the novel is the conversion of the Mesklinite characters to the scientific worldview.
Barlennan, the main character, is the Han Solo or Vasco de Gama of his world.
At the climax of the novel he refuses to help the humans anymore unless they teach him science.
Clarke might have come up with but unfortunately, Hal Clement is no A.C. Clarke or Asimov, though according to his afterword, he had consulted 'the Doctor' on some of the science that the novel would, by default, impose on the story.
Had this big idea been put into the hands of more skilled or sophisticated author, it could have been an even more important classic of the genre.I am, however, looking forward to see if or not Mr. Clement honed in his story telling skills as he continued to write science fiction, five decades after this, only his third novel.
Like Fred Hoyle's The Black Cloud, it is the scientists and engineers who are the calling the shots and saving the day.
Unlike "The Black Cloud" however, there is very little to interest the reader who isn't a scientist, doesn't enjoy following through scientific reasoning and working through technical problems.As the Mesklinites have to traverse their way halfway across their planet, from the equatorial region that has very similar levels of gravity to Earth, to one of the polar regions at which one will experience gravity at something like 600 times that of Earth, they encounter different sorts of problems in which the human scientists help and advise them.
Bit of a struggle to get into the mindset of a four-inch centipede interacting with earthmen on a super-heavy planet, but it turned out to be a fun read by the end.Monopoly hard SF entry!
Mesklin's gravity at the equator is 3 Earth gravities, while at the poles it exceeds 50 G's.
The "mission of gravity" is for a Mesklinite crew to retrieve a data package from a grounded earth probe near the pole and return it to the equator for pickup.
They also have a well-developed fear of heights, any thing more than one body length above the ground or so - and with an acceleration of 1500+ ft/sec squared near the pole, who can blame them?Hal Clement was a master at exploring extreme physical conditions through the medium of science fiction, but with a hard science rationale to support his speculations - enjoy!
I wanted to like this book more.
The story ends abruptly in the middle of a ho-hum mission.The aliens, themselves, were pretty interesting in their biology and psychology.
I think what bothered me the most was that they spoke English.
I don't have a problem with them being able to, but it is how they spoke which bothered me.They spoke naturally, using correct idioms and a wide vocabulary.
I think, if you're gonna have aliens speaking English, they should speak it at least as poorly as a human learning English as a second language.
This is a great example of Hard SF.
It asks the question what would it be like on a planet shaped like an extreme oblate spheroid with gravity ranging from 700 g's to 3 g's depending on latitude.
What would life be like on such a world; how would they view their world; and how would they perceive humans that visited their world.
The main character, a native Meskinlite, Barelennan, is well developed and the story told primarily from his point of view.
My main complaint, which almost resulted in 3 stars, is that the plot is not all that compelling.
I would give it 7 of 10 (3.5 stars) if that were possible.
The setting is, quite simply, the best hard scifi setting I have ever seen, and the buildup throughout the book to the final two chapter conclusion encapsulates a philosophical worldview that never ceases to cause depths of emotion, no matter how many times I read it.While I can't guarantee that others will enjoy Mission of Gravity as much as I, if you have any interest in pure science for science's sake, science fiction that is heavy on plausibility and light on fantasy, and can be okay with reading a story where the character arcs move glacially slow, then you will enjoy reading this book.
That's a class of great science fiction works, and though Hal Clement's entry ranks at the bottom of that list, it is, at least, deserving of being included in that list.
Whereas Le Guin would have made the book about (mis)understanding the other, Clement makes it about scientific worldviews.
This is early example of hard science fiction - a genre I do like and one which still manages today, sixty-four years later - to be clunky and poorly written.
This is certainly a work that might be justifiably criticized as a period piece, but despite its failings, I enjoyed it and consider it a worthwhile read even today.
Now I'm going to look up Mr. Clement.Moving onward and into this very weird world that Mr. Clement created.
It reminds me a bit of "The World of Tiers"...
James Blish...Finished up last night with this entertaining and science-focused book.
Well done...- More bits remind of ...
"Martian Odyssey" ...- One wonders why the humans don't have a flying machine with them besides simple up-and-back rockets.
They do also have "calculators".- If you're into atmospheric physics, optics, chemistry and the like, this is the book for you!- And now some parallels with both polar and mountainous expeditions.- The final irony!
Humans need special enhanced suits even to stand up at the equator and cannot possibly get to their crashed rocket.
Clement delights in presenting his characters with scientific problems to solve (in an afterword, he talks at some length about how he likes SF to play as fairly as possible with the facts, and such fidelity is characteristic of his work).
The penultimate chapter, in which Barlennan renegotiates his deal with the humans in order to acquire science for his people is a remarkable paean to the value not only of knowledge but also of learning and of the inquisitive spirit (not too surprising from an author who was a teacher as well as a writer, I suppose).
There are intelligent aliens that look like foot-long caterpillars.
These are enlisted by a spaceman from Earth to go on a massive sea voyage to find a crashed Earth rocket that contains millions of dollars worth of data.
Rather touchingly the aliens have the same hierarchy as the spacemen, which feels very much like the 1950's post-world-war military, the ethos in which this was conceived; it's all a bit "On the double, Sergeant," for today's tastes.
Anyway, there's some good bits where they discovered a washed-up whale-like creature, whose meat is so dense (due to the gravity) it has the consistency of teak (I loved that!).
This one is a personal favorite.
His writing is unlike any other sci-fi writer's.
It's a complex style of which the plot expands as it goes on.
Which i why i love his writing style.
Not only that it's a clean and smooth style too.
The book is fantastic, The plot is basically the happening's on the planet Mesklin, Which inhabited by creatures that are centipede like.
This book has been a favorite of mine for a long time.
I first read this book sometime in the early 80's and i've it about 3 or 4 times not including this time.
It's an amazing book.
1974 grade A+1994 grade A+2017 grade A+This excellent 60-odd year old hard SciFi story is a really good example of the fact that it is possible to write long paragraphs with lots of exposition that are very interesting and never boring or pedantic.
Combine that with truly interesting alien and human characters and beautiful world building and the result is very, very good.
I highly recommend this book!The story is basically a journey novel that follows the small sentient aliens on a fast spinning discus shaped heavy gravity planet.
Since reading Mission of Gravity, I've gone through everything of Hal Clement's that I can find.A year later, I can say that Mission of Gravity is definitely his best.It has a few scientific problems in the harsh light of the 21st century, but overall it's fabulously well-thought-out hard science fiction.Mission of Gravity features a limited cast of characters, a slow but steady progression of trials and setbacks and a satisfyingly optimistic conclusion.
Interactions between Barlennan, the local Meskinite captain, and Lackland, his human contact, are rather easy.
It's the Asteroids video game equivalent of literature, with far fewer explosions.The story is a very linear progression from one encounter to another as the Mesklinites journey from the equator, where they encountered to the south pole of their world to retrieve very expensive equipment from an incapacitated human rocket.
It's as much a mission of exploration for the north pole dwelling Barlennan as it is for the visiting humans (though they're keeping an eye on the action via a radio).
At times, it seems as if Clement has written this story for boys yearning for careers in science.
All the sins of hard science fiction in one novel.
A total lack of interest in character.
What made it even less engaging for me were the alien characters--the Mesklinites--who despite having evolved on a planet vastly different to Earth with markedly different environmental challenges, have somehow developed think, act and express themselves in precisely the same way as the humans.
During the interminable and zing-free conversations about who was going to tow which device using what method onto which platform, I often lost track of who was speaking, so indistinguishable were their voices: the human being, and the foot-long, pincer-wielding, many-suckered caterpillar.
They sure made their heroes square-jawed back in the day.
He has befriended Strickland, who must spend most of his time in his surface craft, learned English, and agreed to undertake the dangerous trip to the pole to retrieve the recording devices off the space probe.I don't know why Jim Pringle held so low an opinion of the psychology and characterizations of this book.
(Do they even make slide rules anymore?)The adventure on the ground involves storms, unfriendly natives, some peculiar beasts in the mid-gravity zones, and the Mesklinites determination to overcome their justifiable fear of heights in a world where a fall of less than a foot would be fatal, The mixture of science and adventure here is closer to the spirit of Jules Verne than any sf novel I have read.
Barlennan and his crew of sailors have made a deal with human scientists to travel to a stranded experimental rocket of theirs, which is in a location that humans cannot physically visit because of the gravitational force.
Barlennan bargains with the human scientists for knowledge about their technology, saying,"We want to start at the beginning, knowing fully that we cannot learn all you know in our lifetimes.
I want my children or theirs, if I ever have any, to know what makes this radio work, and your tank, and someday this rocket.
The story is mostly told from the point of view of one of the life forms on the planet, a Mesklinite, who is shaped similarly to a foot-long centipede with pincers.
He is the captain of an oceangoing vessel from a home port that has days about 18 minutes long and a gravity about 700 times that of Earth's, where jumping, throwing and especially flying are unheard of.
The human is encased in armor to protect him from the gravity and atmosphere and asks the Mesklinite to voyage to the pole to retrieve a crashed research vessel from conditions which no human could possibly survive.
