https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12568.Trout_Fishing_in_America_The_Pill_vs_the_Springhill_Mine_Disaster_In_Watermelon_Sugar
the Springhill Mine Disaster / In Watermelon Sugar, Richard BrautiganTrout Fishing in America is a novella written by Richard Brautigan and published in 1967.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه مارس 1992 میلادیعنوان: صید قزل آلا در آمریکا؛ نویسنده: ریچارد براتیگان؛ مترجم: پیام یزدانجو؛ تهران، نشر چشمه، 1384؛ در 196 ص؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ شابک: 9643622150؛ چاپ سوم 1386؛ شابک: 9789643622152؛ چاپ پنجم 1389؛ چاپ ششم 1390؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 معنوان: صید قزل آلا در آمریکا؛ نویسنده: ریچارد براتیگان؛ مترجم: هوشیار انصاری فر؛ تهران، نشر نی، 1385؛ در 207 ص؛ شابک: 9643138008؛ چاپ دوم 1385؛ چاپ سوم 1388؛رمان «صید قزل آلا در آمریکا‌‏»، نوشته ی «ریچارد براتیگان»، با ترجمه ی جناب: «پیام یزدانجو» را نشر چشمه منتشر کرده است.
براتیگان، از نسل نویسندگان دهه ی شصت سده بیستم میلادی هستند، و همین کتاب شاهكار ایشانست.
WHAT I LEARNED FROM THIS BOOK:If you intend to invite me over to your house at eleven PM for an important meeting, but then to not arrive there yourself until one AM, then it is a good idea to leave a copy of this book out on the kitchen counter so that later instead of calling you "flaky teenage punk poet jerk"in an online public forum,I will just thank you.
Richard Brautigan is an iconic counter-cultural poet and author who is probably best known for his 1967 novel Trout Fishing in America.
I recently read an omnibus that included two novels Trout Fishing in America and In Watermelon Sugar and a collection of poetry The Pill Versus the Springhill Mine Disaster.I think it is important to understand the life of an author when critically reading their novels.
Either way, it makes for an interesting read and In Watermelon Sugar was the highlight of this omnibus.Trout Fishing in America was just a weird book, I had gotten use to the style of Richard Brautigan and I knew what to expect.
In Watermelon Sugar reminded me, in a certain way, of the Unthank parts of Alasdair Gray's Lanark in that you're never quite sure if the world it inhabits is our world, an alternate dimension, our world in a post-apocalyptic state, or perhaps the afterlife.
Like Unthank, this world is a dreamlike one that seems to have its own laws of nature and physics, although in watermelon sugar is a pastoral, agrarian existence rather than an urban, industrial one.
I love, love love Richard Brautigan's poetry.One of my favorites:Karma Repair Kit: Items 1-41. Get enough food to eat. and eat it.2. Find a place to sleep where it is quiet, and sleep there.3. Reduce intellectual and emotional noise until you arrive at the silence of youself, and listen to it.4. -end-And the story In Watermelon Sugar was one of the wierdest things I've ever read. And coming from me, that says a lot. I dig it.The first story, Trout Fishing in America, can in my opinion, be skipped though.
Yeah right.I've read raves about In Watermelon Sugar with claims of spiritual breakthroughs and discovery of transcendental peace.
A writer who writes a book that everyone reads (though the sales figures don't seem to reflect that) and everyone thinks "they understand while no one else does".
It gives them a "spiritual feeling" for "some reason".
Later even the author gives a wink and a nod over it.If you think you've found the mystery of life through "In Watermelon Sugar" let me suggest you read One Door Away from Heaven by Dean Koontz.
So then I read this after The Abortion and said to myself, "Oh, I guess this guy is maybe kind of an ass? And why does he equate taking the Pill with a mining disaster? Oh well, time for cheerleading practice." The picture on the front still kills me, and for that, an extra star. Remember when that guy renamed himself Trout Fishing in America? I'll bet that he had the best weed on campus.
Q: If you were a Brautigan metaphor, which one would you be?A: "I wander around the house like a sewing machine that's just finished sewing a turd to a garbage can lid."
Mad that I haven't read any Brautigan until this year.
Now that I have this book along with the last he wrote (An Unfortunate Woman) under my reading 'belt' I feel a little happier.
Due to his style and layout almost every page of Brautigan's prose seems like it could stand alone without the rest of the story.
Luckily for us the rest of the pages exist.
Here is the title poem from his book of poetry:The Pill Versus the Springhill Mine DisasterWhen you take your pillit's like the mine disaster.I think if all the people lost inside of you.
Beat kuşağının uzantısı sayılabilecek, yerleşik düzeni ve değerleri umursamayan, 1960'ların sonunda zirveye çıkan karşı kültür akımının önde gelen yazarlarından biri olarak bilinen Richard Brautigan'ın bu kitabını üç yıl önce bir seyahatte almıştım.
İlk kitap "Trout Fishing in America" (Türkçe'ye Amerika'da Alabalık Avlamak diye çevrilmiş), roman diye geçse de muğlak bir tür.
Ama şiirleri genel olarak bana hitap etmedi.Derlemenin en ilgiyle okuduğum kısmı ise "In Watermelon Sugar" (Türkçe'ye Karpuz Şekerinde diye çevrilmiş) oldu.
Bu kısa ve çarpıcı roman, günlük hayatta kullandıkları birçok şeyi karpuz şekeri ve alabalık yağından (yine alaballık!) üreten ütopik bir komünün şaşırtıcı hikayesi.
Bu üç eserine bakarak, Brautigan'dan bir şey okuyacaksanız Karpuz Şekerinde'yi okuyun derim.
I read these books back in my hippie days and I fell in love with Brautigans prose.
It was beautiful, simplistic and minimalist.
These books will endure as classics in the minds of young liberals with loads of idealism and a longing to be modern-day hobo's, keeping their minds filled with mush and ignoring the complexity of reality.Still, though, like reading Kerouac's journals, it offers a interesting insight into the thinking of the flower children of the 60's as well as the tragic figure of a man that ultimately couldn't cope.
(Brautigan committed suicide right around his 50th birthday).
You know that stoner from high school, the one with a golden heart and hateful eyes, the one that failed all his classes but had the intelligence to be a Nobel Prize winner, the one that wanted to establish world peace through sarcasm? That's who wrote this book, and it's scary good. Mix equal parts '60s rebelliousness (without overt politics), folksy americana, and surrealism, and you've got it. Snarky anarchy with the best metaphors I've ever read.
I can definitely see that some of the modern surreal/experimental writers I have read have probably taken inspiration from Brautigan.Trout Fishing in America:I saw this described somewhere as poetic prose & I agree.
The work is almost like a series of short (under one page up to two pages) essays, all loosely related to trout, fishing, camping, & nature.
Trout Fishing in America is often referred to as a character/person, but not always & not in all of the sections.
His poetry is easy to read & most of his poems are very short.
"Dear Trout Fishing in America,"The silliest thing I've read in awhile, Brautigan uses metaphors that don't really make any sense but feel so original you might tend to take them at face value.
Ironically, he's probably been kicked out of a lot high schools without ever making a physical attempt.I have no idea what the hell I'm going to do with this book, thanks a lot asshole."Yours Truly,Trout Fishing in America"
تا زمان چاپ رمان "صید قزل آلا در آمریکا" که برایش شهرت جهانی به ارمغان آورد، در فقر و تنگدستی به سر میبرد.
سال 1964 با همسرش برای زندگی به کنار رودخانه می سی سی پی می رود و نوشتن رمان "صید قزل آلا در آمریکا" را آغاز می کند.
پدر او که در سال ها ی بچه گی ی ریچارد خانه را ترک کرده بود تنها پس از خودکشی ی او پی به هویتش برد و فهمید که پسرش از نویسنده گان به نام آمریکا است.براتیگان را نه می توان با معیار های روز شاعر نامید و نه داستان نویس و رمان نویس.
Brautigan's poems are sad and silly and beautiful. His voice is like that of precocious child. Always painfully honest, his work is charming, if not a little kooky.
While there are some gems, and I've come to enjoy this collection more each time I read it, overall it doesn't rank among my favorites from the era.In Watermelon Sugar is a very emotional bit of writing.
It manages to draw on pretty compelling moods and emotions, having disguised its depth in its direct and simple narrative style.All in all, Trout Fishing in America outshines the other two works tremendously, but In Watermelon Sugar is still definitely worth the read, and The Pill versus the Springhill Mine Disaster goes by quickly, you'll probably find something to like about it for its strange diversity, and when you reread it more connections will arise making it more enjoyable than the first time.
The characters themselves aren't as memorable as the portraits he paints of escapes into nature and the strange ways he twists the words "trout fishing in America" into different roles in his stories.My favorite part of the book, though, is the poetry collected in "The Pill Versus the Springhill Mine Disaster." The in-love/out-of-love poems are especially tender (my favorite is "I Feel Horrible.
It moves quickly through a strange tale of a divided community and a man divided between lovers, and while it's original in the formatting, it's the least poetic of the works collected here.
Into all of our lives come Mysteries of the Zeitgeist. There are no cures but time and patience. Eventually there will be a new Zeitgeist to tolerate. Dig up the sands of Egypt, and there, somewhere beneath The Book of the Dead and a Betamax copy of "The Scorpion King," you will find a book by an Egyptian Brautigan.
this was the first book i ever gave my boyfriend. we read passages back and forth to each other over the phone. some of my favorite poetry is in this book!
This is one of those books whose appeal I totally understand, but also don't really love.
Which is to say: a lot of my talented, smart friends view this as a seminal book, and would cite Brautigan as one of their most influential writers, but maybe I came to it at the wrong time?
There are moments of absolute, objective brilliance, when he's funny and sad and weird and accessible all at the same time, and then there are moments where my patience for seemingly arbitrary and folksy weirdness runs thin.
I love that Brautigan's books exist and I love that they've led to some other books I really like, but I didn't love actually reading these.
Somewhat eye-crossing, in that this particular volume combines a few of Brautigan's books-- including a volume of largely excellent and surprising poetry-- and thus I must return to it (not an unpleasant task!) to take my time over each work in turn.
In Watermelon Sugar will be the particular recipient of my second lingering look, as it begs seventy or so in sequence-- I may be able to re-read it for the rest of my life, as the mood strikes.
I had read this book several years ago, as a teenager in love with the idea of being a rebel and to me, Brautigan was.
So, perhaps when I rated it I added nostalgia: remembering the purple capret and insence burning while someone read to me, etc.
But it's hard to judge something written in a differnt decade with differnt stuff floating around in the air and different sort of literary things going on.
I love "In Watermelon Sugar" for its absurdity."of course we used a lot less tombs when the tigers were in bloom.
is a collection of poems.
My favorite part, though, was In Watermelon Sugar, also a novel.
And there were some amazingly weird things about this world, like the sun shone a different color every day, and everything in the town (like building materials) was made of "watermelon sugar".
One of the colors (and watermelon varieties) was black silence, so it wasn't just a color, it was also a quality of things not making noises.
It sounds crazy but I kind of wanted to live in this town.

It's nonsensical quite often, and it's pretty much always silly, but you've got to have no sense of humour if you don't crack a smile while reading this.
No matter what other interpretations people have come up with, I think the one thing everyone can agree on is that he WANTS you to laugh....more than anything, really.
Otherwise, I think he really pokes fun at the romanticism of classic American culture, and the larger notion of nostalgia.
Brautigan's got a darkness to his style, and when he makes all of this look stupid and fantastical, it's definitely with a method to it.
since this volume contained 3 of brautigan's books, let me break down the starred review. the three stars was primarily for 'in watermelon sugar,' which was sad, bizarre and a little haunting. i'd give 1 pithy little star to 'trout fishing in america,' which felt incredibly dusty, dated and drug-addled. 'the pill versus the springhill mine disaster' gets 2 stars for a few beautiful, gut-wrenching poems and a few really really bad ones. i'm glad i read brautigan but at least now i know he is not for me.
Although this book claims him as part of the Beat movement, he doesn't seem nearly so sexist and dickish as all that. He actually comes across as a pretty decent guy, just having fun with words. Not trying to squeeze every last ounce of Life and Beauty from beauty and life, only partially in sincerity but largely driven by a hyperactive sense of Self, but rather just finding things beautiful and enjoying life.
I'd have to say I liked it - about as much as I'd like an acid trip. His writing is full of amazing metaphor and you never ever know what he's concocting with words and images but it's a sad commentary on a person who had a sad - though brilliant - life. The end of the book was just quite brilliant as well. Yes, to read Brautigan absolutely important - but because it didn't leave me with a satisfied feeling but rather an empty one.
Possibly my favorite book of all time. If you haven't read Brautigan this is where you must start. Trout Fishing in America is the steak, the empty seemingly disconnected yet haunting metaphors in his poetry in the middle section is the key lime pie, and In Watermelon Sugar is the port wine. You will get drunk.
