https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8492856-what-happened-to-goodbye
I miss the Sarah Dessen who wrote This Lullaby and The Truth About Forever. What happened?
Instead the book quietly unfolds in layers: each time Dessen revisits a scene/sub-plot, she goes just a little bit further than the previous time ~ giving more depth and insight into her characters lives, relationships and what makes them the way they are.
And Deb, well, she's lovable and cringe-worthy all at the same time and completely interesting.I like how Dessen cameos characters from her past books.
I'll leave them for you to find...Despite the parts I enjoyed, overall I was left feeling underwhelmed.I personally prefer my books to have a bit more urgency to them (even if it is a quiet urgency).The lack of tension or driving force with any of the sub-plots resulted in me flipping the pages rather disinterestedly towards the end.
In fact, it just might rank up there with my other Dessen favourites, Just Listen and The Truth about Forever.Generally, I tend to like Dessen heroes better than Dessen heroines.
The main reason this book worked so well for me, though, was Mclean.
There was never any point where I wanted to shake her and scream "SAY IT ALREADY", which is a thing that happens all too often to me with Sarah Dessen's other heroines.
But there's one thing I've come to realize, and that is that you either like Sarah Dessen's style, or you don't.
And, as always, a sort of meh teenage girl protagonist who goes through a lot and comes out the other side character developed, like a factory but with emotional breakdowns and crying jags instead of mysterious machines.A lot of the fun of Dessen books comes down to the details.
Parents’ jobs; particulars of the familial drama; whether the book takes place in Dessen’s beach town or Dessen’s town town; quirks of the cast of characters who will become the protagonist’s friends; exactly how boring the love interest is (it’s always somewhat boring); whether the main character is kind, brave, or smart (those are the only options).This one comes down pretty well.
OHMYGOSH, *squeals*seriously can't wait anymore,I have been waiting for a new book by her since, what was it? 2009? I CAN'T EVEN REMEMBERI want to read this book NOW *cries*LOVE SARAH DESSEN.COVER IS AWESOME.
Look whose back with another basic-3-stared-contemporary read !!You know what kinda funny not really??
It’s such an overused trope.MC: *does something totally normal and believable*Whinny-annoying-character: oh my gosh *flips hair* I cannot BELIEVE you just did that, you’ve betrayed us all, we must shun you for the remained of the week.Okay, okay, I  mayyyy  just be exaggerating that a bit, but that’s how I felt while I was reading it.
//Can’t mention the incident bc of *spoilers* - but know that it was totally and completely unnecesarry.//Okay, okay, so I think I may be slamming this too hard, because let’s face it, I gave it 3 stars.
Let me tell you, I don’t read Dessen’s books because they are particularly deep and yes, I know they all follow the same formula.
I read them because, in my opinion, not a lot of authors can capture this feeling of change and growth, combined with lovely summer vibes and a swoon-worthy guy as well as her.
But here, the things I normally love about Dessen’s books were strangely muted and didn’t really come across.
All in all, if you are a Dessen fan like me, you will probably read this anyway and form your own opinion.
If you are no Dessen fan, you probably don’t want to read this anyway ;).
“Home wasn't a set house, or a single town on a map. It was wherever the people who loved you were, whenever you were together. Not a place, but a moment, and then another, building on each other like bricks to create a solid shelter that you take with you for your entire life, wherever you may go.” , After Mclean's parents divorced, Mclean was on the move with her father from house to house. Needing a change, Mclean decided to change her name and personality for every school she moved to. Onc
I really enjoyed this book, I found Mclean really easy to relate to and she was always funny.
I understood her feelings and it felt so good to read and agree with almost everything the character says.
The characters were the best part about this book, I loved almost everybody!
Deb might be the character that goes through the exact same thing that I go through, I really like her and how Mclean helped her out.
I also recommend this to those who read Sarah Dessen's book because this book is amazing and I know you will love it!
This time around we're gonna get to follow the story of a girl named Mclean.
I caught the excitement of watching a basketball game (I live in place where college basketball is followed like a religion, and she got the feel of it just right).
I wasn't sure why some people were expressing that they didn't fall in love with Dave.
I think because the relationship arc is different for Mclean and Dave that people couldn't connect with him the same way they did with the other leading guys.
Dessen fans will read the book but I urge people who haven't to try one of her books.
She hit home for me in so many ways that at the end of the day, I could relate on so many levels and that’s what made her a compelling character in my eyes.McLean and her dad have moved from town to town for the past few years.
There she meets some great friends and becomes part of a community where hiding behind someone she’s not is no longer an option.The majority of this story revolves around McLean’s strained relationship with her mom.
OHMIGAWSH. *SQUEEEEEE* 8D Lol ;)I. CAN'T. FREAKING. WAIT!!! Sarah Dessen rocks my socks! :D AHHHHHHH!!! XDUPDATE: THE COVER LOOKS AMAZING!!!!!! XDAS OF NOW, THE BOOK IS OUT.:D IT'S WAITING FOR ME AT THE LIBRARY. MUST. GO. NOW.***REVIEW***Another awesome love story from the wonderful Sarah Dessen. She never ceases to amaze me.:) This wasn't my favorite, but I loved it anyhow. I was reading it all of first through third period. Tsk tsk, I know. Shame on me. But it was totally worth it.:)
[3.5]
As with all of her books, readers can expect a moving story filled with cleverly drawn characters and the perfect touch of romance.In her tenth novel, Dessen details the story of Mclean Sweet - also known as Liz Sweet, Beth Sweet, etc.
Not only is it addicting, but it's neat and welcoming, like a gift that you can't help but come back to every now and then.With every book I've read by Sarah Dessen there are certain details and quirks that I adore.
Great, now I have to wait another billions years (okay, probably more like 2) for another Sarah Dessen book.
Two years and four schools later Mclean and her father are in Lakeview.
I was kind of surprised by how much I liked Mclean.
I loved how this book was as much about Mclean as it was about her family.And of course you can’t NOT mention the secondary characters!
I felt I could particularly relate to Mclean because through high school I moved around and just like her I wasn’t sure if I really belonged anywhere because I didn’t have a place to call home.
From past experience, I know if I push through the beginning and get settled into the book's world, I'll be hooked in no time.
Between the restaurant scenes, the party, and Mclean meeting Dave, the beginning arguably has the most exciting scenes in the book.
There's very little tension, and combined with a slow plot, it was hard for this book to hold my interest.The biggest problem, though, was Mclean herself.
She's not quite sure who she is, but is good at jumping into whatever new role and name she wants to be for a short time.
I like a lot of the individual pieces of this story (like the restaurant situation), but for some reason it's harder for me to get into this one as a whole.
I think a lot of the elements are seen in other Dessen books...
I was definitely more into this story the first time I read it.
So I automatically read every Sarah Dessen, who is super good at being Sarah Dessen. The guy will be quirky and loveable. A family will somehow be destroyed and put back together. The food service industry will likely appear, as will the beach. Knowing that these things will happen is like knowing that macaroni and cheese will not let me down in a time of need. At least, it never has yet...
This was a quick easy contemporary that was very sweet, the problem is I don't find Sarah Dessen books memorable like next week I won't even renember the protagonist or her love interests name.
Mclean verhuisd met haar vader naar Lakeview.
Ze is het gewend om i.v.m. haar vaders werk steeds te verhuizen naar een andere plaats en dus ook naar een nieuwe school e.d. Iedere keer bepaald ze voor zichzelf ook weer een nieuwe identiteit en zorgt ze ervoor dat ze niet te veel aan mensen 'hecht'.
Maar in Lakeview gaat het toch net iets anders waar ze een vriendenclubje opbouwt en gewoon zichzelf is.
Sarah Dessen heeft zo'n fijne schrijfstijl dat ik echt verslingerd ben aan haar boeken.
Finally! I've been waiting for her to write a new book since along for the ride came out!!
Another cute, quick Sarah Dessen read. Her books always make me feel so nostalgic in the best way. Awh
This is my twelfth Dessen novel.
All of the friends that Mclean and her dad make in Lakeview are great.
Riley, Heather, and Ellis were each fun additions, though I wasn't sure about them at first.
He gets his own paragraph because I would like to see more of him.
I would really like a novel where he's our main guy.
This isn't my favorite Dessen novel, but it was really good.
It's quite well balanced and it, along with some of her other recent books, shows how much she has grown as a writer.
The basketball rivalry was fun to see from a distance.
I would have been able to deal with this, too, if this characterization had been done well – don’t be fooled into thinking this is a character study, guys, because it certainly is not - but unfortunately, Dessen didn't strike out of the park with this one.I didn’t like Mclean.
The only one who caught my eye was Deb because of her interesting experiences and pasts, and if Dessen had stopped to flesh her out (info-dumping and recalling memories isn’t fleshing out a character) then maybe I wouldn’t have had to sludge through this book.The Truth about Forever was hopeful and motivating and moving.
Wat een heerlijk boek om lekker in het zonnetje te lezen! Ik was het boek begonnen op mijn telefoon, maar besloot na 50 bladzijden het fysieke boek bij de bieb te halen. Toen ik die eenmaal had, vloog ik door het boek heen. Dat leest zoveel makkelijker dan op mijn telefoon.Uitgebreidere recensie komt maandag op mijn blog :)
Oh, wat was dit weer een heerlijke Sarah Dessen!Ja, sommige dingen aan het plot zijn voorspelbaar - qua uitkomst dan, de weg naartoe is niet supervoorspelbaar.Maar wat ik zo mooi vind aan haar boeken, is dat er altijd wel grotere onderwerpen zijn die ze er heel subtiel en goed in verweven heeft.
Het hoofdpersonage in dit boek zit nog best wel met de scheiding van haar ouders en haar relatie met haar vader en met haar moeder en hoe ze met bepaalde dingen om moet of wilt gaan en alle struggles die daarbij horen.
Of, als je deze Dessen al gelezen hebt maar dat boek niet, dan raad ik je die dus aan!Een goede contemporary met warme feels en veel inhoud.
I don't know if that was Dessen's way of trying to show a bit of maybe what caused Mclean's mother to cheat or not.
I really hate to read about cheating in romance novels anyway, but the woman acting like a spoiled brat through the whole book with her 180 in the end didn't feel believable at all.
Since Dessen doesn't revisit characters in her books that I know of right now, this just ended up making the reading feel more muddled.
I honestly didn't get that Mclean's mother loved her, she just wanted her in her new life and wanted things to be like they were.
Using a different name at every new school she attends, Maclean reinvents herself after each move.
Now, making new friends and falling for a boy, Maclean is learning to accept herself and learn to not run away when things get real.
One thing I love about Sarah Dessen books is that she includes characters from her other books into her new work and I love finding them in the story!
I found the pacing of this book to be a bit slow for my liking and it took a very long time for things to actually happen.
I have no idea how she does it, but I loved and related to the main character so much.The story follows McLean.
Every time they travel to a different city, McLean changes.
Different personalities, different names, never wants something long term.This was a really sweet and heartwarming about discovering yourself, family, trust and change.Sarah Dessen’s books are always so relatable and this one didn’t disappoint.
I loved the main character, she was complex, interesting and had great character development.
I loved seeing how her relationships with everyone slowly changed when she started to trust them more and grew closer to them.
I loved this book!
It was wherever the people who loved you were, whenever you were together.” Another wonderful Sarah Dessen book.
I love that she is a wonderful author, a go-to author that I know there will be a character I love, a story that's easy to slide right into and a plot with depth and interesting twists.
We don't move every 6 months, but I don't like to stay in one house longer than 4 or 5 years......so I completely understand McLean's understanding that she can be whoever she wants to be after each move.
She's completely right.Dave was wonderful - a boy that everyone deserves.
