https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2504.The_Complete_Short_Stories
'The Door in the Wall' is probably the most affecting, bitter sweet short story I have ever read.
The central character's fate is inevitable, from the moment he first spies the green door in the wall as an infant, and venturing inside, finds the radiant blonde girl that will haunt him for the rest of his life.
It's not the only great story in this collection, but it is the best.
Once read, never to be forgotten.
I read it first as a child, and its legacy is lasting.
We all have our doors in the wall.
Some of these stories are clearly science fiction, others are more general fiction, but worth reading nonetheless.The first section is titled “The Time Machine and Other Stories”.
This section is not taken from the contents of another collection, but instead includes the novella “The Time Machine”, and seven other Wells stories.
The second section is titled “The Stolen Bacillus and Other Stories” and it contains the entire collection of stories from a collection which was originally titled “The Stolen Bacillus and Other Incidents”.
It also contains “A Dream of Armageddon”, the dream from the title.One cannot go wrong with a collection of Wells short stories.
Me encantan las ideas Sci-Fi viejitas, entre más leo a los autores clásicos menos quiero leer a los nuevos.
Y es que sus ideas mezclaban perfecto realidad y ciencia con ficción, al grado que no se leen ridículas o imposibles si no simplemente visionarias, cualidad que no todos los autores actuales poseen o que cambian por algo meramente ostentoso.
Lo que más disfrute de Wells este año y medio que leí mucho de su trabajo es precisamente eso, su visión tan única incluso en sus novelas que no me terminaban agradando mucho.
En cada historia corta y en cada novela había algo que me impresionaba y definitivamente seguiré buscando sus demás trabajos.
Therefore I have listed (as my memory vaguely serves me) some Honorable Mentions:The Stolen Bacillus - Didn't stand out for me but I remember it being an amusing read.The Flowering Of The Strange Orchid - Possibly influenced Invasion Of The Bodysnatchers.The Triumphs of A Taxidermist/A Deal In Ostriches - An amusing read from what I recall.Through A Window - Think Hitchcock's Rear Window.The Temptation of Harringay - An early draft of The Devotee of Art. Decent enough but I preferred the revised version.The Diamond Maker - I can't remember this one very well but I remember enjoying it.A Slip Under The Microscope - I personally didn't think much of this story, but it is considered one of Wells finest, purely due to the questions it raises on certain moral issues.The Man With The Nose - Short, amusing story about a man's dissatisfaction with his nose.Our Little Neighbor - Tragic, mildly horrific little story.
In two short stories here, mankind is seen as being a descendant from a more brutal prehistoric age in which early humans had to compete with animals and other human-like species to ruthlessly acquire their dominance.
It is not only the pioneers, but science itself that threatens to over-reach.There are darker glimpses of human nature here too, with stories that involve jealousy, infidelity, murder, theft, suicide and forgery.
Not to mention the lesser sins of snobbery, pettiness and vanity.However, the more characteristic hero of a Wells short story is the Mr Polly type of character – the man whose life is utterly unremarkable, save for the extraordinary things that happen to him.
Overall a beautiful pacifist piece.3) The Country of the Blind - just a beautiful story4) The Man who Could Work Miracles5) The Truth about Pyecraft6) The Star7) The Valley of the Spiders8) The Door in the Wall - a story for lost childhood9) The Jilting of Jane - memorable quote - "We all have our sorrows, but I do not believe very much in the existence of sorrows that never heal"10) The Star - "All the familiar continental markings and the masses of the seas remain intact, and indeed the only difference seems to be a shrinkage of the white discoloration (supposed to be frozen water) round either pole.
This gets a 5 star not because I loved every story, but for "The Truth about Pyecraft." Had all his other stories been wretched, the rating would have been the same as this story would redeem them all.
As a young man, I loved Wells. As a disaffected kid who thought he could find truth hidden somewhere inside a book, Wells' novels and stories were some of my favorite places to look.
A veritable Jules Verne, H. G. Wells works still put most of modern science fiction to shame. Particularly interesting are his attempts at creating alien life and his constant lampooning of human condition. As a fan of Borges, I cant but marvel at Wells mastery of world building. The Door in the Wall is now one of my favorite stories ever.
A veritable Jules Verne, H. G. Wells works still put most of modern science fiction to shame. Particularly interesting are his attempts at creating alien life and his constant lampooning of human condition. As a fan of Borges, I can´t but marvel at Well´s mastery of world building. The Door in the Wall is now one of my favorite stories ever.
A truly amazing collection of works showing many varying styles by H G Wells, covering a plethora of none science fiction books that will truly astound you Wells wrote them.
I wouldn't even know where to start with a review, since I could say something about each story, and this review would go on for days...I read The Time Machine and War of the Worlds awhile ago, and never knew H.G. Wells wrote short stories until I happened upon them.
After reading a few of them, I was greatly impressed, and look where that got me...900 and some pages later!
Reading the Complete Short Story Omnibus was as delightfully episodic as reading The Arabian Nights or Alice in Wonderland, or some other such collection of diverting and adventurous quests.
I knew that H.G. Wells had an excellent imagination from his novels, but the short story is truly a much more expressive location for his thoughts.
The stories range from mere anecdotes to novelas, with a vast array of subjects: science fiction, history, romance...
basically anything you can think of.
And the few duds in here are completely smothered by the many great stories.
There is a definite improvement in writing style over the course of Wells' career, and there are extremely diverse shifts between tones from one story to the next.
"The Crystal Egg" is available to read on Goodreads. A frabjous little tale. I laughed out loud a couple of times and grubbed up the descriptions of the shop in the beginning. Do Gnomes guard crystals or just treasures in the earth? The characters were like little greedy gnomes. However, there are only so many facets to having so many facets, and the explanations of the crystal seemed *moss-grown.*
I must confess, I didn't finish this collection. I guess I am just more a fan of his novels than short stories. Many of these stories seem anecdotal and undeveloped and are consequently less engaging than his classic longform writing. For people new to Wells, start with The Time Machine and War of The Worlds. Other authors (such as John Wyndham) develop many of the ideas in this anthology better. One for completists.
A collection of stories wherein we see how our values have changed over the years as well as the structure of the short story over time. However, it does include the exquisite, "A Tale Of Days To Come" which is a bonus as well as several dozen other exemplars of the form. It also provides readers with some brilliant examples to answer the question "Why did the author choose to write/ end the story this way?" which doesn't get asked anywhere near enough these days.
Like most anthologies the stories in this one were hit or miss. I generally like HG Wells inventiveness and enjoy those stories where his God given sense of wonder are on display; while avoiding the stories that overtly push his aesthetic or anti-Catholic views. Some of the stories in this book weren't that great.
Had never read anything by H.G. Wells and, based on the movie version of "The Time Machine," I expected his stories to be very dated and kind of corny. Some of them were a little bit, but mostly they were really well written, and some even had serious points. (I thought they would all be adventure stories like Jules Verne's -- whose stories I also know only through movies.)
A different version of this book was in my college library. If I had an hour or two between classes, I would go there, pick up this book and read for a while in one of the chairs there (often dozing off as well). I got through most of it, there are some real gems, including many predictions from Wells of the future that have actually come to pass. A good read if you like sci-fi.
I read selected stories in here. His ability to see the future is worth the price of admission. Many stories are dated and lose savor. He is prolific like King and often not much better. I enjoy both men.
Long descriptive writing style but so much imagination. There were so many stories in this rather thick book but some of my favorites were The Time Machine, The Country of the Blind, The Sad Story of a Dramatic Critic and A Dream of Armageddon.
The God of Science fiction shows his immense influence in this small collection of short stories that had been published in several science fiction journals. Magnificent. The story regarding the Bacillus vial is a particular delight.
Have only read some of it, had to take it back to the library, will continue reading more of the short stories it provides someday soon. So far it's a great & intriguing book.
Although most of hg's settings were either 19th century England or Brazil, he never failed in bringing vivid imagination to his stories.
Great deal of thinking and meditation while reading Mr Wells' stories... never had an idea how events going around us could have such complications and parallel meanings inside!
I'm using "A Story of the Stone Age" for my thesis and would like to finish "The Crystal Egg" soon. These stories simply don't get enough credit!
Wells' prose is a delight to read: clear, simple, often beautiful.
The Door in the Wall ... Superb
A brilliant writer
BoB: 82 WBestilt 2014-01-31
Love these short stories. They are perfect for reading during break time at work.
