https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96962.Out_of_Phaze
Initially a trilogy, the Apprentice Adept series ends with Phaze and Proton separated forever, with no possibility of renewed contact.
Five years after finishing the first three books, Anthony returns to the series with another trilogy and a final stand-alone novel.
Almost immediately, both Bane and Mach fall in love with their counterpart's female friends (strong flashbacks to the first trilogy here) – Bane with the alien Agape and Mach with the unicorn Fleta.
Meanwhile Agape almost immediately expects Bane to 'teach her the ways of human love' and he doesn't waste a bunch of time.While the novel felt strongly that it was an attempt to extend the series beyond his original plan and consequently repeated a lot of those ideas, tweaked slightly.
The narrator is exhaustingly perverted. He doesn't even bother to describe the facial features of any woman but immediately describes her breasts. The 2nd and 3rd book were a bit sexist but nothing compared to this one (never read the first one). I'm going to continue the series anyway because I'm a sucker for fantasy and I already have them on my shelf. Crossing my fingers..
Start of the Second Series14 November 2012 Well, now I worked out which is the first book of the second trilogy, not that it really means all that much because I am pretty much over Piers Anthony. Okay, I still have Bio of a Space Tyrant and Unicorn Point to review, but once I have done that I can simply say good bye to Piers Anthony and move on to some more impressive authors (such as Jim Butcher, though I will have to start reading the third book in the Dresden Files before I write anything ab
Start of the Second Series14 November 2012	Well, now I worked out which is the first book of the second trilogy, not that it really means all that much because I am pretty much over Piers Anthony.
If done well this can be a very good literary technique, and Anthony has done this previously in the Xanth series, though I have noticed that he only jumped generations a couple of times.
In this series the jump over the generation occurs between the two trilogies.
Previously one could physically jump between the worlds of Proton and Phaze, but it is no longer possible to do so.
Also, somehow the evil Adepts and Citizens immediately know about the switch and set out to capture them, even though it's entirely a psychic phenomenon and the boys have trouble convincing people they're standing in front of that it has happened.It's not a bad book, exactly - it's just kind of flat.
Just so you know.)The only bit that was rather striking was that Blue, who was a character only in reminiscence in the original trilogy because he wasn't tough enough to save the world, is the flexible, dynamic, successful one, and Stile, he of the unshakeable honor, is a conservative old stick-in-the-mud who basically sabotages himself.
I liked this sequel better than the previous trilogy. One thing Anthony has never been afraid of is letting his characters age and step back for the new generation to have a turn.The names are still puns and silliness, of course, and the fact that we're still operating in two different frames means there's a lot of duplicate-style action.... But the criss-cross romances are sincerely touching, especially that of Mach and Fleta; and there's a nice contrast between Blue's reaction to events and Stile's that keeps things interesting.
The second series to the Apprentice Adept series was actually my introduction to the original trilogy. All up, it is a very entertaining series, but one which I am not game to revisit in case my love for it is really teenage nostalgia talking.
I was a little surprised when the prior book in this series ended without anything really happening to the bad guys, especially since they had proven themselves to be quite bad, kidnapping, torturing, hiring assassins and starting a war just to get their way.
But Piers Anthony generally doesn't go for that kind of violence and when the book ended with the good guy on top I just figured he'd see to it the bad guys were dealt with because, if he didn't THE BAD GUYS WOULD CLEARLY BE BACK.
Besides, Piers Anthony is writing about an extremely violent couple of worlds where things like kidnapping, torture, assassinations and wars were all available to private citizens.So, big surprise, the bad guys come back.
Yes they tend to focus on a woman's physical attributes and in /some/ of his novels women are definately not protrayed in their best list that's what happens when you read older books.
In /this/ series women are basically plot devices and the focus is on the men and from their point of view.To sum up quickly: The last book ended with the frames of Phaze and Proton seperated forever--they weren't.Twenty years later the sons of Blue and Stiles have been able to cross over, but not physically, they've switched bodies.
"Out of Phase" was a good book but it wasn't as interesting as the rest of Piers Anthony's Blue Adept series. The flow of the story was a little awkward at the beginning but it did get better further on in the book. Mach, citizen Blue's robot son switches consciousnesses with his counterpart in Phaze and both of them discover the awkwardness of navigating a different body in a new world.
I was shocked that the characters kinda switched up.. because I really loved the adventures of Stile.. so now the focus is on Stile and Blue’s kids. Generational story till the end.
I probably should have read these in strict order.
It was super good but I was left hanging. *insert crying emoticon*
On Proton, the Citizens have all the power while everyone else are naked serfs and on Phaze the Adepts rule the lands because they have the most powerful magic.
What a totally cool idea!I really enjoyed the new characters that the author created for this book.
Mass doesn't matter on her world because Phaze is a land of magic.As in the previous books, most of the other Citizens on Proton are power-hungry will do anything to obtain more power, while on Phaze, most of the Adepts feel the same way.
They crave more power.I have always enjoyed the quick pace of books by Piers Anthony and appreciate his writing style.
The two have borne sons: Mach, the robot son of Blue & Sheen and Bane, the human Adept son of Stile and Lady Blue.
Both Adverse Adepts and Contrary Citizens wish to harness this ability to gain power and, of course, Blue and Stile wish to use it to promote unity.
Complicating matters, Mach and Bane form romantic relationships in each other’s frames.It has been stated that this volume of the series is lacking, and not as fascinating as the previous.
Mach & Bane are both compelling characters, particularly Mach’s robot body and his first experiences in a human form with human emotions he cannot control by circuitry.
Glancing through it now and rereading a few pages after all these years, I probably wouldn't read it now, but it served its purpose back then in expanding my imagination and helped me look at things differently when the world was wide open with possibilities and dreams could still come true.
I was reminded of this book for whatever reason after going through my old Dungeons & Dragons DVD cartoons that I was going to introduce to my son and after watching too much Sci-Fi channel, The Walking Dead and movies such as The Giver, Divergent, Battle Royale, The Hunger Games, Blade Runner, Elysium, etc.
Our two heroes Mach (from Proton), and Bane (from Phaze) find themselves in the other's body in the other frame.
In this new story, both Bane and Mach are imperfect creatures struggling to find a purpose in life.
But because of her alien nature she becomes the perfect companion for Bane in his conquest against the Citizens, and they fall in love along the way.
She is inexperienced in the ways of love and Bane teaches her all he knows.
Fleta has always loved Bane, but he never took her seriously because their love was forbidden, but Mach is a different story.
Because there is no physical link between the frames of Phaze and Proton anymore, Anthony resorts to a mental connection between the offspring of the main characters of the previous three books.
Pretty standard cookie-cutter plot with only a few small twists and turns to keep things interesting.The biggest drawback that I could see is that the story is told from the viewpoint of each of the 4 main characters in turn, but has entirely too much repetition and review to keep my interest.
This book returns us to the dual world of Proton/Phaze, although with completley different characters so you don't need to have read the first three books.
Agape in Proton, a amoeba like creature with issues of her own, and Fleta in Phaze, a unicorn who can turn to human or hummingbird.I did quite enjoy this, although not quite as much as the original trilogy, as Stile was a much better character than either Mach or Bane.
The ending is good, although obviously set up so that the next books can lead from it.
This is almost a second series in the Apprentice Adept series.
We are no longer following Stile and are now following his and Blue's sons.
Until Mach and Bane switch places and most learn to survive in each other worlds and how to get home.This is a interesting book you suddenly are not following the same people and its been 20 years, but you quickly catch on to what has happened in these 20 years and what has not happened.
But most (but not all) of the twists are easy to spot ahead of time.
I strongly encourage this be read as the entire series. The last books go in a very different direction than the first few.At first, this seems a rather typical fantasy type book. Toward the end, well, the comparison to our own world is inevitable and powerful. Why can't we all just get along?I'm giving the series a rating of 4. Some of the books in the series are better than others. As a whole, I think it's worthy of a 4.
Out of Phaze was enjoyable, but be warned Anthony moves from an adult, sci-fi, fantasy novel to a young adult, sci-fi, fantasy novel. This is not a bad thing it just annoyed me because the first three books had a more mature dialogue, situations, and plot mixture, which irritated me just enough to loose a star in the process.
This is actually the most re-read of any of Piers Anthony book I own. Something about the switching of mind and body with another, and the Brown Lady, totally fascinated and comforted me. I actually loved this book most of the series, unlike many. The romances, and the reactions of others to said romances being as much the reason as any literary effort or fantasy worlds of imagination.
This is a great series of books. I've read them about four times now and still love them. If you enjoy science fiction or fantasy either one you will love these. Piers Anthony is great at combining the two together.
Anthony made a big mistake by trying to milk the Apprentice Adept series beyond Book 3: Juxtaposition. This is embarrassing. It's mostly soft porn. It's as if this is a first draft and the real book is hidden away somewhere. Just read the first three books in the series -- forget the rest.
So I read a TON of Piers Anthony in high school, back in the late 80s. He was definitely one of my favorites. The apprentice adept series was yet another one I fell in love with and endorse with fond affection!
I read this series in high school, that would be the 80s. I wonder if I'd like it as much now as I did then?
11
3.5 stars
I wish I could quit you, Piers.
Beginning of the adventures of Stile's son Bane and Blue Adept's son Mach. I like the difference in characters, although they've both been taught some of the same values.
