https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/297779.Master_Harold_and_the_boys
Book Review  2+ out of 5 stars to Master Harold...and the boys, a play written in 1982 by Athol Fugard. It pains me to give this work only 2 stars as I know the value it truly brings to highlighting apartheid in South Africa when it needed more attention. Perhaps because I read this when I was still fairly young, I couldn't connect with it. As a younger reader, I often struggled with themes around depression, war, slavery and human rights. I couldn't fathom not treating people equally and fair
It pains me to give this work only 2 stars as I know the value it truly brings to highlighting apartheid in South Africa when it needed more attention.
I couldn't fathom not treating people equally and fairly, and struggled to read the stories.
It's interesting to think about how you'd change ratings for books and plays as you age, hence why on my blog, I've created the "what age to read which book by genre" series...
to help ensure books receive the best possible attention when being read.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
There is no "action" per se, all the dialogue takes place in one setting, the St. George's Park Tea Room, and is spoken by only three characters - two adult black men (Sam and Willie) who work at the tea room and the white seventeen-year-old son of the owner (Hally/Master Harold).
It's 1950, and the relationship between the boy and the two men is impressively complicated.
They, especially Sam, are the fathers he grew up with but also the "boys" of the play.
Hally's own father is a cripple and a drunk, but Hally ends up directing all his anger onto Sam by the end of the play, changing forever the nature of their bond.
Actual rating: 3.5Awesome. The simplicity of this play (and its moral message) made it a wonderful read!Racism is deeply rooted into the human nature, and we cannot get rid of it easily.Harold would ALWAYS be the 'Master', and his dear friends would ALWAYS remain his slaves 'Boys'!!
‏Actual rating: 3.5Awesome. The simplicity of this play (and its moral message) made it a wonderful read!Racism is deeply rooted into the human nature, and we cannot get rid of it easily.Harold would ALWAYS be the 'Master', and his dear friends would ALWAYS remain his slaves 'Boys'!!
The impact of this play on me was so much more than expected.
I was assigned to read this for English class, so of course I assumed this play would be just another unimportant, mandatory reading assignment.
This play, set in South Africa during 1950, shows the raw, ugly truth of racism.
As the play progresses one starts to question how anyone, could say such horrible things to another human being, and feel they have justification in saying it.
This play portrays a harsh reality of how things were, and I would recommend it to anyone.

I feel like this is another one of those books that teaches white people about racism. It wasn’t bad and it made its point. I just feel like the racism directed at the men was really painful and not worth the lesson, since I already know it.
You would think a little 50 page play with just 3 characters, set in a a single room, with a run-time of barely 100 minutes, would be inadequately equipped to comment on something as nuanced and systemic as Apartheid.
Everything great about this play stems from its supposed "littleness".
And here's Fugard's piece de resistance: Hally, the person doling out the hate, is likable, intelligent and charming from the start.
And once you're bound to the character like that, Fugard forces you to bear witness to his racism and still continue empathizing with him.
This will take you literally an hour to read, tops.
Read.

I honestly first thought that this was some sort of parody or modernization of Mother Courage and her Children, purely from the similarity of the titles.
This play focuses far more on aspects of philosophy, race, and politics- all between three characters and withing a relatively small amount of pages.
I've really grown to like these plays with very small casts, showing how focused it can be on those characters.
Some highlights for me were in the parts where Hally would talk to his mother and father on the phone.
This is one play you definitely shouldn't miss out on reading.
This is very interesting and satisfying play about a privileged white teen and two black servants in South Africa having an extended conversation, and set during apartheid. There are some high points, beautiful imagery in a monologue about ballroom dancing and also ugly pugilistic behavior which is fitting considering the setting. However, I dislike it when themes and morality are heavy handed. It's a good play but perhaps I would need to see it performed.
I had to read this for my world literature class and it is now my absolute favorite play. It's short but powerful as it tugs at the reader's humanity. Despite it's broad themes of racism, coming of age, and family dysfunction, the play manages to be personal and affect the reader in the issue most important to them. For me, it was the coming of age aspect. It's bittersweet ending remains hopeful for a better tomorrow. I absolutely cherished this read.
Very quick read that touches on family heritage, racism, and adolescence changes. This script has a flow that makes one finish it quickly and it leaves the reader with questions they must answer themselves. The imagery of this being performed live is what gives it such strong power as at times you can get carried along as these men imagine a separate world with you.
I am really enjoying teaching this book. It felt like a risk since its such a talky play, but We seen to me able to do interesting things with it. Love me some kites and politics.
I teach this play every other year and don't feel like writing a review this year. Perhaps I'll come back to it in 2018. =)
Thoughtful play about the relationship between a white boy and two black men in apartheid-era South Africa. The play was Fugard's way of working through his own complicity in the white supremacy surrounding him during his childhood years. It shows how his family's servants helped him begin to grow up--and also grow beyond his early racist ideology and behavior.
This was a quick, easy play to read. It was interesting, but it won't have a long lasting impact on me. "Anybody who thinks there's nothing wrong with this world needs to have his head examined. Just when things are going all right, without fail someone or something will come along and spoil everything. Somebody should write that down as a fundamental law of the Universe. The principle of perpetual disappointment. If there is a God who created this world, he should scrap it and try again."
Read this since the IB juniors will be reading this in English and I teach apartheid in 12th grade. It was poignant and reveals lessons still relevant to this day. Can’t wait to hear what the kids think.
this book is a masterpiece because it gives "white people can't dance" a profound metaphorical meaning
This review can also be found on A Thousand Lives Lived, check it out for more!From all the books I was required to read this year for school, Master Harold...
It just becomes second-nature to spread the loving messages that authors attempt to showcase.THIS PLAY WAS ALSO REALLY SAD AND MEANINGFUL.
Athol Fugard lived a similar life to the play's main character, Hally.
the boys is a read everyone should pick up.
You know those lists that state, "30 Books to Read Before You Die"?
Help me make that happen by reading this meaningful, deep story.
”Master Harold” … and the boys is a short play, but there’s a lot of humanity crammed into it.Set in a tea room in Port Elizabeth, South Africa, it shows us the relationship between three characters: Hallie, the seventeen year old white son of the tea room’s owners, and Sam and Willie, the two black employees who work there.
”Master Harold” … and the boys works so well because of this; we see all of them at their best and worst.At the heart of the play is a laser-like focus on racial dynamics.
Taking place in Apartheid South Africa, the story revolves around two black men, Sam and Willie, and a seventeen year old boy named Hally A.K.A Master Harold.
One of the story's major themes is racism.Sam and Willie work for Hally's mother at her Tea Room (similar to a Cafe).
Hally's disgusting behavior derives from pressure from his unjust society and really puts an emphasis on apartheid, and how horrible it was.I thought that the story is very well written, I enjoyed the fact that it was a play, it was straightforward and easy to understand.
In Master Harold”...and the boys, a teenage white boy living in apartheid South Africa argues with two black men that work for his mother (and who he is very close with) about different ways of looking at the world and society in general.
The play has constant undercurrents of racial tension and injustice throughout, and revolves around a perverse coming of age story that centers upon the main character's journey from Hally to "Master Harold," the racist white member of apartheid South Africa that both his parents and the society around Hally expect him to become.
"Don't confuse historical significance with greatness.""And it's beautiful because [dancing] is what we want life to be like.
But instead, like you said, Hally, we're bumping into each other all the time.
None of us know the steps and there's no music playing.
The whole world is doing it all the time.
Those are big collisions, Hally.
People get hurt in all that bumping, and we're sick and tired of it now.
It's been going on for too long.
Are we never going to get it right?
. Learn to dance life like champions instead of always being just a bunch of beginners at it?"
Absolutely heart rending. I read this for my college class on world literature and I loved every line of it. Knowing that it takes place in South Africa during apartheid, I expected some of the plot points to occur somewhere along the way, but Fugard does such an incredible job of playing off of the emotions. Anyone of us could lash out at someone we care about like Hally does with Sam, and it shows just how deeply societal prejudices and attitudes can affect an individual, even if you don't consciously realize it.
A clever enough work, I suppose. Definitely not the worst play I've ever read, but I always felt there was something missing. I enjoyed the dynamic between MASTER HAROLD and his "boys" and it really did get me thinking about the effects of apartheid (or in America, the Jim Crow Laws) on race relations and how it creates a superiority complex among white people--even when this black man is, by all means, a better person (both intellectually and personally) than the white man in the play.A fun read, but don't expect anything too exciting.
This was an interesting read, not something that I would normally have picked up on my own. I read it w/ my son, Dylan, who read it for school. It's the story of a boy, Harold, who while growing up has 2 very unlikely friends in 2 black waiters, who work for his parents. But in the world of apartheid in South Africa, life can get in the way of the best of relationships. This book gave me alot to think about, and I think I will be thinking about it for some time to come.
“Anybody who thinks there's nothing wrong with this world needs to have his head examined. Just when things are going all right, without fail someone or something will come along and spoil everything. Somebody should write that down as a fundamental law of the Universe. The principle of perpetual disappointment. If there is a God who created this world, he should scrap it and try again.”
Hally: "Penicillian and Sir Alexander Fleming!...The major breakthrough in medical science in the Twentieth Century. If it wasn't for him, we might have lost the Second World War."Hally: "Philosophers have been trying to do that for centuries. What is Art? What is life? But basically I suppose it's...the giving of meaning to matter."Sam: "Nothing to do with beautiful?"
Had to read this for a theater class I am taking (an elective) and immediately loved it. The story is easy to follow and really has a lot of important lessons. It's scary that it was based on a time only 63 years ago. That's not so long ago when an African could not sit with on a bench with the white boy that he has practically raised. A very good story.
This book masterfully addresses the ideology behind the apartheid system in South Africa by having only three characters: Hally, Sam, and Willie. The conversations that they have in a tea room is what triggers the plot that Fugard wanted readers to understand.
