https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69646.Ceremony
Because they’re quick reads between more serious books — even more serious detectives, such as Ross Macdonald’s Lew Archer — I thought I’d revisit Ceremony, the beginning of the April Kyle saga from the Spenser series.
Ceremony is where Spenser first meets teenager April Kyle, and her plight will resonate throughout the series.This book came after Rachel Wallace, but before Valediction, where Parker turned away from an avenue which might have progressed the series into a higher echelon.
And from what Spenser has seen of her parents, April has a point.The novel has many vivid scenes of the corrupt underbelly of Boston: a tour of the Combat Zone, a sad glimpse of a rundown apartment building filled with hookers, a visit to a “sheep ranch” (a bordello specializing in extraordinary perversions), and an amusing account of an orgy of underage girls and Boston bigwigs that metamorphoses into a donnybrook before descending into a free-for-all.This is an entertaining novel, and its ending will leave you with something to think about too.
But what do you do when a runaway prostitute doesn't want to come back home?After reading the most recent Ace Atkins Spenser book, I decided it was time to fill in more of the gaps of the series.
I question the logic of bringing Susan along to the final showdown, however.There were a few things I didn't like about this book, however.
The thing I really thought was strange was Spenser's logic that if April wanted to be a whore, he should put her to work for a madam he knew.
Susan remarks on it, and he chalks it up to spending time dealing with the soul-crushing aspects of prostitution, but reading this right after A Savage Place, it almost makes me wonder if Parker wasn’t indicating that Spenser was still bummed after his disastrous trip to L.A.The dilemma of what to do with April weighs on both him and Susan.
The resolution that he comes up with makes sense, but it’s still pretty shocking.My favorite part occurs when Spenser, Hawk and Susan go to a house to get April and find a party worthy of Sodom & Gomorrah going.
It is early Spenser. Susan is still teaching school. Spenser has an MG. There is no dog. It is a wild finish with a lot of hit, punching, kneeing, biting and kicking at the end. It is teenage prostitution and missing girls. It was a quick and fun read after a more gross book I had just finished. Hawk is still there and his FBI and Boston cops are still with him
And as Spenser digs in to attempt to save April, he has to face the ugly truth that April may not want to be saved.After A Savage Place had taken place mostly in LA, with Spenser’s usual supporting cast sitting out the installment, Ceremony returned the P.I. to his Boston environs for a gritty adventure.
Parker set a lot of the action in Boston’s infamous Combat Zone, the one-time red light district that’s long since been flushed out of the city by urban redevelopment.
Spenser’s ultimate solution to “save” April is one of the bleakest resolutions in a series not exactly known for happy endings.Ceremony was a strong character outing.
The hero inside him does want to help all these unfortunate victims, and he needs Susan to be his anchor again, to good effect.The final fight scene is chaotic, hard to follow, and rather unsatisfying.
Hawk does his stuff again, and again without much character.The moments in the book where Susan and Spenser explore deeper issues, and their feelings and fears for themselves and the girls are the best parts of the book.Not a great Spenser, merely adequate.
No quotes that stand out, either.See my review of Crimson Joy for more Spenser Series opinion...https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
Spenser is persuaded by Susan Silverman to look for teenager April Kyle, who has rebelled against parents whole feel like dysfunctional cardboard cutouts, and are barely mentioned again after the first chapter.
There's also a rare pop-culture reference, with a mention of the at the time so-hip-it-hurts Devo.The previous Spenser instalment, A Savage Place, was a real low point for our fearless gumshoe.
Surprisingly, considering the events of that story, it's not even mentioned here, but Spenser himself does seem a bit subdued, so perhaps there is a hangover from L.A.April Kyle is a name that will crop up again, years down the line.
I finished this book in two afternoons. I really enjoy books by Rober B. Parker. His writing style is simliar to Dashiell Hammet and Raymod Chandler. They all include the hard-boiled detective trying to solve a case. The stories are easy to follow plots but it is driven by great dialogue - smart, humourous and lots of attitude. A great way to spend a couple afternoons.
I loved the Spenser TV series.
Incredibly glad that it's finally out on DVD.
I thought I'd give the books a try.
I had read the first in the series, "The Godwulf Manuscript" some time ago and, although I enjoyed it, it wasn't what I thought.
This one, however, was right on the money.
Great Spenser story.
A real hard-boiled detective story.
As a fan of Dashiell Hammet and Raymond Chandler, I certainly but this in the same category as Sam Spade and Phillip Marlow.
I'll certainly be reading more.
You'll know when you finish the book.
Number 9 in the series (which I am reading in order) if you like good old fashion detective PI stories, you will like this series very much... Robert B. Parker is one of a kind and very much missed. So far, all of the Spenser series books are very fun, and fast reads....... and I just love when Hawk is in the stories!
Most of the time, these books are cozies, and just a few pages of violence and sex keep them from being cozies all the time. A soft-boiled detective? No, sunny side up.
Mr. Parker, as the author, is an excellent storyteller, and the one who creates the ending for his book: here, Spenser must come up with a quick solution to save a young girl from the jaws of a low-line prostitution ring - a girl who does not want to go back to the safety of her childhood home.
I have thought about Spenser's solution in this story for some time now, and I honestly cannot say that I have an alternative, based on the character Mr. Parker created.I would recommend this book, but I am not sure everyone would agree with the ending.
Spenser is looking for a runaway teenage girl, that doesn't want to go back home, to her dad that don't want her back. Might ruin his image as a successful business man, because she's turning tricks.Our tough and funny PI, gets an up close and personal look into child porn. He isn't joking around much, walking around in the Combat Zone, where the sex for sale is everywhere. Another fine early Spenser & Hawk tale.
Spenser is hired to find and bring back an errant daughter of a privileged couple.
Spenser is a private detective in Boston and has been hired by the Kyles to find their missing teenage daughter, April, who they suspect is working as a prostitute.
Spenser finds April and she is indeed working as a prostitute.
As Spenser keeps digging, he discovers the person of influence behind providing teenage girls for prostitution and also the making of porno movies and he is determined to shut him down.This is the ninth in the Spenser series (there are currently 46, with the last six written by Ace Atkins after Parker's death in 2010).
It's written in first person perspective in Spenser's voice.
Spenser and Susan are at the Kyle's suburban home and April’s father Harry tells Susan he has seen his daughter in the rough Combat Zone in Boston with an older man and believes she is working as a prostitute.
Utley is a high-end madam and if April wants to continue the life of a prostitute this is probably the best option for her.
Both Susan and Spenser know that if they took April home, she would just run away again and the option of family therapy, when realistically considered, has little chance of success.
Another solid entry in the Spenser series. The subject matter and how it is managed may be offensive to today's audiences.
I have a gut feeling that as time goes on there will be fewer references to Hawk's relationship with criminals; however, his past involvement sure comes in handy because he's on a first name basis with them and can call upon them without problems.Susan plays an important part om Ceremony (eighth in the Spenser series) since she's the reason Spenser's looking for the runaway, April, in the first place.
Susan's involvement is as a high school guidance counselor, moving up from the 8th grade, I recall from previous books.So the moral dilemma; should a 16 year old be allowed to determine her (or his) own future?
This is the 9th book from Parker's Spenser series.
Spenser is "hired" by April's parents to find her and bring her home.
April is a 16 year old drop out who is hooking in the Combat Zone, which is a raunchy, dumpy section of Boston where almost anything goes.Susan, Spenser's girlfriend, has talked Spenser into taking the assignment even though he can't stand April's father.
Spenser takes a dollar from April's mom and begins his search.
He is able to find her about halfway through the book but April doesn't want to go home.
I wouldn't hire Spenser to do anything with my kids.
Ceremony is ninth in the Spenser series.
Dedicated students will be interested to see notable changes since we began with The Godulf Manuscript.
There are clues to Hawk's origins.The plot is a variation on a familiar Parker theme - a teenaged girl is missing, Spenser is hire to find her and bring her back to unloving patents.
Parker often allows his novels to interact with social issues that may make the reader pause to think.
One additional mystery here is why this one is called Ceremony (or perhaps this reader missed a clue somewhere).It is a quality that marks him out from many of his contemporaries.
This is the 9th book in the Spenser series by Robert B.
I confess, I used to watch the T.V. show with the late, great Robert Urich as Spenser and Avery Brooks as Hawk.
I say this, because as I am reading this book I am hearing/seeing Robert Urich and Avery Brooks in my mind.
It made the story even more "alive" than usual.
This story deals with the "seedier" side of Boston, mainly whoring.
The main character is a 15 year-old girl that ran away from home and decides to make it on the streets of Boston, with a pimp and all that it entails.
2  stars. My mind wandered a lot, but it might have been other things going on in my life - not sure.If you’re new to the series and just want to read some, skip this one. It’s not a lot of muscle and wit. It’s mostly Spenser trying to find a teenage girl who runs away from home and does not want to be rescued.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #9 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser. Unabridged audiobook length: 4 hrs and 31 mins (224-228 pages). S
2 ½ stars.
My mind wandered a lot, but it might have been other things going on in my life - not sure.If you’re new to the series and just want to read some, skip this one.
It’s not a lot of muscle and wit.
It’s mostly Spenser trying to find a teenage girl who runs away from home and does not want to be rescued.The narrator Michael Prichard was very good.DATA:This is book #9 in the Spenser series.Narrative mode: 1st person Spenser.
Swearing language: strong but rarely used.
Sexual language: none.
Book copyright: about 1982.
Another fine tale from Parker about the philosophic, hard-fisted Spenser, pal Hawk, and love interest Susan. He's coerced into looking for a problem teen in Boston and the unsavory people taking advantage of her.
Teenage prostitution, hypocrisy and tough choices dominate this excellent mystery. It feels like Chapter One of a bigger story, and adds some more depth to this ongoing portrait of this one-named sleuth.
✭✭✭
Great as always, this one has Hawk in it which is always a huge plus!!

Reminded me of my kids and how I had to deal with parents who were too busy working, keeping ahead of the Jones, to care or bother with their kids my girls ages.
I was fortunate I could stay home.
My income mostly went to taxes inasmuch as it increased our tax base so I quit to stay home.
But does that mean when I did work I was too tired to pay attention to my girls when I got home from work.
Three jobs.
I had 3 jobs, mother, wife, legal assistant.
I finally got a washer & dryer.

