https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71772.The_Seekers
Book 3 of the Kent Family chronicles is my least favourite so far. With the exception of Jared Kent, the family members introduced are either undeveloped or simply unlikeable. Two story lines from the previous book converged in the third instalment but you are left feeling as if the characters and storyline has been wasted. This instalment is more disturbing than the first two. Rape is a recurring theme in the books but it is more disturbing in this instalment as it deals with children.
Anyway, all in all, another great Historic tale!In The Seekers we are introduced to the second generation of the Kent Family, and the first half of the story revolves around Abraham Kent, son of Phillip Kent, and Elizabeth Fletcher stepdaughter of Phillip and blood-related daughter of Peggy Ashford McLean Kent (Phillip's second wife, and former flame of Judson Fletcher, who appeared only in The Rebels).
That's all I'm going to say, I don't want to spoil everything.A great installment in this Family Saga, wonderful new characters, and I'll also mention that at-time future President Andrew Jackson appears, along with his wife, Rachel Jackson, which I found very cool and fascinating!
An excellent edition to the series, but it's a lot darker than the first two. Still, it was realistic enough & Jakes drops plenty of historical facts through the characters' eyes. Well done. I need to take a break to read another book, but intend to continue re-reading this series soon.
I'm a big John Jakes fans and this was the most disappointing read of any of his books. Too much rape, and I had too little sympathy for the characters involved. I'm not sure if Jakes took on too much in the 1970s trying to compete this series during the bicentennial, this felt rushed, and even the historic figures seemed to just show up for no good reason other than to name drop instead of the lead characters being at the right place in time. I hope this isn't how the rest of the series goes.
An excellent book, maybe the best in the series so far. I want to read more.
This isn't a bad book, in fact it kept me turning the pages the same way the first two books in the series did.
No one is happy in this book, ever.
The author tried to temper it with them being apart for a few years during which she grew from a girl to a woman, but still - ick.I'll keep reading the series - there was a shred of hope left for the characters at the end of the book, so I am hoping that some happier times are in store for them in the next one...
I enjoy the Kent Family chronicles but this was a sad read; Abraham was an interesting character and I hated to see his story as it played out, would have like to have seen him on the stage a little longer.
The remaining story is interesting, well researched, and vividly depicted; historical figures weave their way into our main characters' lives, history of the young United States also is woven into the story, and yet there is also pretty graphic depictions of sexual violence that are excrutiatingly detailed and presented.
Volume 3 of the American Bicentennial Series (The Kent Family Chronicles) deals with the second generation Kents and a new and ever growing country.
Westward expansion and the men that legends were made of, color this fast-moving and engaging novel.
The settlers moving westward tamed the country and made it into a nation.
In John Jake’s fashion figures of American history are brought to life and intertwined with the lives of his creations.
Like the book’s predecessors, the dry facts of history are transported into a gripping tale that will remain with you for years to come.
I read books 2-7 of this series in the last weeks of Feb 2013. While I liked the continuation of the family name through each generation, I could have done without every single important female of the Kent family being raped, sometimes repeatedly. They no sooner got power and money than they lost it, and family members ran the gamut from good to brilliant to corrupt to sleazy to fierce to insane to bloodthirsty. Lots of historical info, also, which made the story more real and interesting. But I would not recommend this series, save book #4.
Added 5/11/12.I have read the first 2 volumes of the Kent Family Chronicles. This is the 3rd. I started this one on or about 6/10/12.7/29/30 - I finally finished reading this book. It was an enjoyable read even though I wasn't able to give it the time it deserved because I was busy with other things. Nevertheless, each time I returned to it I was immediately engaged in the story. Jakes knows how to tell a good story!On to Volume 4, The Furies!
Volume 3 of the Kent Family Chronicles starts out with Abraham Kent and then moves on to cover his son Jared Kent and his adventures with his cousin Amanda Kent. This work of historical fiction cover the late 1700s and the early 1800s. Jakes does a good job of weaving a page turning story in with the history of what was going on in the United States at the time. I am looking forward to reading Volume 4 The Furies.
another rush job on the characters.. expected more from the author many of the main characters are killed off almost instantly. let's see who dies in book 4.
Though the stories were captivating and exciting in a different sense from the first two books (which both captured the Revolutionary period), it was hard to see what Philip had become.
All of the characters are suffering at pretty much every point of this story and it got hard to handle.A fair warning to those of you reading the series - this books contains some brutal killings and incest, but more disturbingly details the rape of a child.
Like I said, some pretty heavy themes.The fact that this book was so overloaded with depressing storylines, some of which included despicable acts, is the primary reason for only giving four stars.
That being said, I did not enjoy reading about (view spoiler)[step siblings being romantic, and marrying.
The step siblings in the story met as very small children (previous book), so they literally had to be raised together as siblings.
I feel like I did learn some history from this book, and that is the nice thing about historic fiction - and why I'm such a fan.
I was a poor history student in high school, so - in a small way - books like this help make up for it.
That being said, I felt the book's point of view was so extremely limited.
Unfortunately, all that Phillip has worked so hard for is not what his eldest child, Abraham wants.
After marrying, he strikes out for the West and to make a life of his own.
Will Abraham’s struggles and failures set the tone for the remainder of his life and his family’s?
It is very educational and entertaining about one family as its generations experience the “American experience” and life.
This book covers the period from about 1800 to the 1820s and approximately 3 generations of the Kent family.
For a family so involved in the Revolutionary period, their experiences continue to be dramatic as time goes by.
This third in the series follows the last days of half brothers and the survival of their children, cousins Jared and Amanda.
After the family Publishing company is lost in a card game by Amanda's stepfather, Jared shoots an accomplice of the man responsible and believes he has killed him.
Jared and Amanda then escape from Boston and begin an unbelivable long journey into the western lands.
Jared overcomes his fears and joins up with a trapper in hopes of finding Amanda.
Most of the story is about Jared.
Amanda's story awaits the next book, The Furies.
I love the reference Jakes makes to the mighty rivers that “in their silent, eternal power carried them; changing the nation; changing the lives of its people, including the Kents—.” The craft of a writer of historical fiction amazes me.
The fictional Kent family encounters numerous historical figures, some briefly, some in more detail, accurately portrayed based on research and knowledge.
Knowing this is an eight volume series, I intend to read them all in relatively short order; however, The Seekers leaves you really hanging and wanting to know more, making me glad I have them all on the shelf so that I can continue now and not have to wait a year for the next book to come out.
(sigh)I gave up on this. Multiple times. And picked it up again. And again. Until I finished.So much heartache, despair, violence, trials and tribulations, hopelessness, fear, more violence, and so on.But, you know, interesting, too.I'm glad I finished it. I'm glad it's over. I might want to read the rest of the series. Ugh.
Phillip Kent’s grandson Jared and granddaughter Amanda are the main focus points in the third installment of the Kent series, which is a lot darker and gloomier than the first two. Still looking forward to the next book to see how the story continues.
5 out of 10
Read all of the Kent books back in the 70s
Another excellent read. As a few others have stated, this is a lot darker than the previous 2 novels, but just as amazing.
A continuaion and another time period in the US History. Fascinating story line!
Not a fan of the violence and rapes. So far my least favorite of the Kent Family Chronicles. Hoping they get better as I begin book 4.
Very engaging. The attention to historical reference and accuracy is well-done! I'm hooked.
Do the Kents ever get a break?
These comments address The Kent Family Chronicles, the entire series of eight books, in audiobook format.
Tempo and pacing fine, albeit the narration is a bit slow for my taste, bumped it to 1.25.The entire series is a broad spectrum history of the United States from just pre-Revolutionary War through the 1890s and a chronicle of the Kent family through this time.
All the instances that involve the Kents and John Jake’s other fictional characters are products of his imagination.
Several of these books were adapted for television mini-series, popular at the time.John Jakes is a terrific historical fiction author, recommended.
He ends up on the Constituions (Old Ironsides) but under the most horrifying conditions with a lunatic commander who likes young men more than young women.
Unfortunately, his dear Uncle dies, his hellacious aunt remarries a scoundrel who gambles away her fortune, and unbeknownst to them all gambles away the family's book publishing company to the commander that was on the ship.
The aunt is told of the business being taken from her hands, runs in front of horse drawn carriage and is killed.
Philip's son Abraham is now grown, and falls in love.
This is probably the most problematic event in the entire series.(view spoiler)[He falls in love with his adopted sister.
See, Philip's first wife, Abraham's mother, died, and Philip remarried.
He married Peggy, who has a child by her rapist, Judson Fletcher, whom we met in THE REBELS.
So Abraham and Elizabeth Fletcher fall in love when she's seventeen or so.
Really bad idea, and perhaps the least believable moment in the entire series.
(hide spoiler)]So, Abraham and his wife move out West and have a child.
Jakes historical novel follows the story of the Kent family, and in doing so illuminates American history.
In this case, the story covers the period around the War of 1812 with Britain, a time when Britain from its base in Canada and with strong Indian allies threaten to new republic.
The book gives us insights into the anti-war sentiment of the New England States, concerned as they are about trade, contrasted against the desire for war from those in Washington and the south.
He plunges us into the grimy underbelly of life in this period of American history.
The book reminds me more of a Shakesperean tragedy than a modern novel.
