https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1005350.Prejudices
My regional pride was hurt as William Allen White ("The Sage of Emporia") was flayed by Mencken; although I have to admit I didn't even know William Allen White (a journalist and newspaper publisher) wrote fiction.
Mencken evaluates the legacy of Jack London, and suggests that the Call of the Wild and parts of the autobiographical John Barleycorn are among our best popular fiction; although he faults him for over-publishing and bringing ouy works that are not fully realized, novel that, today, are barely remembered.
Additionally in this volume, he celebrates Poe, Twain, George Bernard Shaw, and Whitman.
find myself returning to mencken every year. he makes cynicism and hate feel refreshing. consider this review a blanket endorsement of veerythings he wrote. though "the cult of hope"in prejudices stands out.
Read:Criticism of Criticism of CriticismJack LondonAmong the AvatarsThree American Immortals
Be that as it may, I feel inclined to fully subscribe to his analysis of the problem, such as in this sentence gleaned from his essay “The Late Mr. Wells”:”And under all the rumble-bumble of bad ideas is the imbecile assumption of the jitney messiah at all times and everywhere: that human beings may be made over by changing the rules under which they live, that progress is a matter of intent and foresight, that an Act of Parliament can cure the blunders and check the practical joking of God.”What a sure way of dissolving all sense of personal responsibility and increasing unwaning trust in “those in charge”!Mencken’s collection of essays “Prejudices, First Series” is an inspiring and a very amusing enterprise.
I confined myself to the essays on religion, love, death, and psychology. I decided to explore Mencken knowing that his writing was admired by Christopher Hitchens. I am not disappointed and I leave with the memory of some truly meaningful ideas and passages. I just feel that the compilation of essays could have been more thoughtfully compiled. Think Hitchens with "Love, Poverty and War". That said, a collection is intended to cover as broad a spectrum of interests as possible so the criticism may be off the mark.
If you are not laughing yourself to sleep each night there is something seriously wrong with you. Is that how the quotation goes? I think it is O.K. now and then to feel like the whole world's a bunch of ninkompoops annd that guys like us should go grab a beer and say to hell with it.
