https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/891284.Man_Into_Woman
The writing isn't exceptionally good but combined with the fact that Lili Elbe is the actual author behind her novel-like biography AND the fact that this is also the first real transgender themed work ever, this book becomes immensely interesting to read.
it all left a really big impression on me.And although it is a story of struggles, it is also a wonderful story.This book really leaves you in deep thought, whether it's about her actual life story or about the way she has chosen to present this story through her writing as stylistic/fictional elements clash with reality.I really recommend this book, it was a great read.
I decided to pursue more information on the life of Lili Elbe after reading Ebershoff's "The Danish Girl." Hoyer's "Lili" provides a collection of letters and diary entries written by Elbe herself, from the time before her transition and afterwards.
Though the names had been changed to preserve anonymity, Lili is still Lili.
That much cannot be changed.She writes mainly to her wife, Gerda, as well as to friends.
Her writings initially depict her sorrow, her struggle to become Lili, and later her excitement and love for life after Lili was found.
It was like I had lost a friend.
A good book. It changed the way I look at LGBT, I didn't really feel disgust or indignation toward them, it was more like disbelief caused by ignorance on my part. Now I only have compassion, understanding & sympathy for them.
I wanted to read the original 1933 version.
Hoyer compiled the book from a variety of Lili’s correspondence and journal entries, and letters to Lili written by family and friends, and then filled in the rest of the story with his narrative in order to tie it all together.
I found this book absolutely fascinating, and I think anyone who loved the movie, or anyone who is interested in the topic of gender identity, or even just anyone who loves a deep, honest and intimate story would find this book as fascinating as I did.
Besides being a fascinating book, Lili's story gives us much to think about.
I have not had any surgery yet but I have been hormonally transitioning for 11 months.
Just the hormones which Lili would not have had, without those surgeries, are so freeing.I wish she could see us and smile, and all the progress we have made with her start.
She started the race, she created the movement.
She started the society level change, so that we could be ourselves.I highly recommend this book for anyone who wishes a look into a deeper look into the transgender experience.Please be aware, this is the book the dramatized version of the story called the Danish Girl tells.
After watching the film, the Danish Girl, I wanted to find out more about the amazing story of Einar Wegener, a famous Danish landscape painter living in the bohemian Europe of the 1930s who underwent multiple surgeries to become the woman Lili Elbe. As it turns out the movie is not entirely based on facts and I wanted to really understand what happened with Einar, his wife Gerda, and Lili. For something written in the 1930s it is an incredibly easy read, and explicit in the facts surrounding what actually took place.
Something lost foreverThis brave, infinitely sad story of a gender pioneer, doing what most likely had never been done or imagined and certainly not tried. It is also a tragic story; how different everything could have been had all involved known when to stop. One of those rare, small books you will never forget ...
I haven't seen the movie The Danish girl nor have I read the novel The Danish girl, however I was very much interested in the topic of the novel/movie (and at the time I was specifically looking for a LGBT themed book written as biography or journal).
However, I can't quite agree with people who call Lili/Andreas simply a trans woman because truthfully his/her gender and sex situation is more complex.
Andreas/Lili was actually Intersex.
Often times the person has no idea they are actually a chimera.
Also Andreas and Lili seem to differ in personalities a bit.
. This book gives us a truer and more intimate picture of the thoughts and emotional state of Einar Wegener while he transitioned into Lili Elbe, and of the constant support of his wife,Gerda Gottlieb, and most relatives and friends before and after his four surgeries in 1930/1931.
The book is based on actual journals, letters written by Einar/Lili and on contemporary interviews with friends.
The doctor also encouraged her in the belief that the transplanted ovaries from a much younger woman would make her physically a younger person and Lili sought to change her age on legal documents.
Like a lot of people I saw The Danish Girl and loved it, so I went looking for what really happened and found this book.
Sometimes this reads like a novel, and I can't believe how incredible this story is.Lili was so brave.
My heart was breaking all the way through knowing that she didn't make it.I definitely recommend this book.
All in all this was a heartbreaking and iconic story and I'm happy I know more about Lili Elbe.
After seeing the movie, it wasn't until the end of this book that I understood why it was so important for Lili to be able to give birth. She was truly a woman and no longer a man. I was also amazed at the support system she had.It is hard to imagine how difficult this must have been for her. Some questions I'm left with are: Why did the doctor leave on vacation? What happened to the doctors and the clinic, especially with the rise of National Socialism aka NAZI Germany? I would like to find some of these answers.
Sadly, even when the individual finally achieves congruence between their physical body and their internal gender identification, the struggle for true acceptance of self, and inclusion in society may continue.Lili Elbe's story is an important, and inspiring one.
It is amazing to think of the encouragement she received from Grete, whom she had married before transforming gender, and the pioneering surgeries that enabled her to transform her body into the gender she identified with.
I am truly thankful that she committed her life to print as an inspiration to others who suffer the torment of being trapped inside a body that visually aligns them to the gender they least identify with.
Honestly a pretty good narrative of the life of Lille Elbe.
It’s interesting to see from a modern perspective how people viewed her and even how she viewed herself.
For example, Lili wrote some pretty awful/sexist things about herself, showing how much she internalized sexism of the time, as well as believed that she had to follow societal feminine ideals in order to be a “real woman”.
Highly recommended for anyone interested in gender study and transgender literature.
Lili is the republishing of Man Into Woman, the memoir of one of the first openly trans women, Lili Elbe.
Lili's life story was the inspiration behind The Danish Girl - which completely twisted and disregarded many of her life circumstances - and in my opinion the truth is much more interesting and compelling.
It is of such vital importance that we listen to the own voices of those in the trans* (and other) communities, rather than rely on the (often mis-)interpretations of privileged, white, cis, male authors such as Ebershoff.
Technically speaking it was not a sex change since Lili apparently was born an intersexual person, but in any case the story of her adult life (the book tells nothing about her childhood and adolescence) is a tale of stubbornness and resilience. It is amazing how she managed, surrounded by a net of friends and parents, who supported her all the way.What I have not liked at all is her image of femininity as weakness, dependence on men and shyness. I suppose it was the mental idea she had of being a woman, but it is quite sad, actually.
Det var opløftende at bliver klar over hvem Lili Elbe var, efter set "the Danish girl " og læst "den Danske pige" blev jeg mere nysgerrig omkring hvem Lili var!Bogen danne en god forståelse for hvad transkønnede går igennem, os der ikke er i deres sted kan ville kunne forstå den tanker der går den enkelt transkønnede person! Selvom bogen første gang udgivet i 1931 og vi ved alle transkønnede er forskellige, er det stadig en god indsigt man har fået sig når man læse den her fortælling om Lili Elbe
Eye opening and heart breakingThis story is a fascinating tale of a woman's journey. It's not always an easy read but it is impossible not to fall in love with and want to care for Lili. Her "confessions" are so raw and full of innocent hope and longing that it's feels like listening to a much younger friend. This is an incredible book that encourages understanding and compassion of a situation so rarely written about.
As beautifully written as The Danish Girl, and wonderful to have read it directly after. I really recommend it.
Amazing book. I liked it a lot. Some may find it quite specific, however, this is where you may find a uniqueness of this work and its authenticity. Recommend! https://essayclick.net/blog/asa-format
This is another book I read for school. It was so interesting. I recommend everyone read this if they've seen the movie so they can see how Lili's story was altered.
This really is a fascinating book, especially when you consider the times (1920's and 30's) . I agree with the preface that says this book is great for people going through a change like Lili went through or for people who know people going through this change.
I saw the movie The Danish Girl which inspired me to read Portrait of the First Sex Change. EXCELLENT STORY! So sad for Lili, but a heart warming story.

The story of Lili Elbe is an eye opener.
And her story is during the early 1900's, so the technology and the way of life was quite different back then.
It is much easier for a hermaphrodite in todays world to cope with their illness.
To recognize it, to see it, and to know the actions needed to make that person happy.
Back then, this was unheard of.
So, Lili had to live a lot in secrecy.
I would recommend this book to anyone with an open mind about hermaphrodites.
Out of sight, yet her heart peers throughI saw the movie first, and enjoyed it. But having read Lillis words and the enormous physical pain she endured, was far better evidence of the depth of her transformation. An extraordinary woman set free by a surgeon and her other self, to live what remained of her life. Her own words stirred me. Such courage.
This was a really, really interesting book. I know so little about the history of transgender people. This wasn't brilliantly written or anything, but it didn't need to be. I'm very glad I read it.Read as the 'Read a book by or about a person that identifies as transgender' part of Book Riot's 'Read Harder' Challenge 2016.
I read this book after seeing the movie "The Danish Girl" to get more of the real background on Lili Elbe. I did not read the book of the same name. This book is fascinating and heartbreaking, with Lily and Andreas discussing deeply what must go on in the mind of any person going through these changes, regardless of the decade and medical progress which has taken place since then. What torment!
LiliA bit difficult to read due to the writing rather than the story. Felt there was much left out and only really got going towards end of the novel. Very informative at times and showed that education can overcome prejudices.
Wonderful account of triuAs always the movie "The Danish Girl", although wonderful, did not do Lol I'd life justice. Her life was far more fascinating and intricate than the movie could ever depict.
Probably shouldn't put "read" because I actually couldn't finish it. The narrative was hard to follow & just not all that interesting. Maybe I'll pick it up again in the future because I see many don't agree with such a low rating. Darn. Such high hopes!
