https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3466.The_Wedding
A friend of the family loaned me two Nicholas Sparks books. The friend is very nice. However, reading Nicholas Sparks, to quote Tommy Smothers, makes me realize why some animals eat their young.
I remember reading 1 book though - for sure - and have seen a couple of his movies - so although I had no idea what the specifics were going to be when I saw the Audiobook pop up on my library feed as available ‘now’...I knew enough ( in general) that his books & movies were love stories - sweet & touching - predictable - with old-fashion values - ( I say that as a good thing), and is as American as ‘apple pie’ - ( or was: our country has been changing as you’ve noticed).
The Wedding almost seemed like it was specifically written for me to hate - and it's been a long time since I've disliked a book this much.
These are conversations that bore me in real life, so why would I want to read them in a book I'm ostensibly reading for pleasure???And it is so over-the-top - the daughter asks her mom to be her matron of honor, and then there's a twist at the end that is impossible to believe would ever happen.
Still, there are folks that will love this book despite its sappiness, and I don't want to rain on their parade more than I already have.
Most Nicholas Sparks' books are tear jerkers and heartbreaking, I just didn't expect this one to make me cry a little.
It's more of happy tears than sad ones.
I'm just incredibly touched with the story.
Noah Calhoun's words helped Wilson Lewis to become a better man to his wife, Jane.
Realizations of how much time he lost because he's too busy at work and doesn't pay much attention to his family.
Wilson made a mistake of forgetting their wedding anniversary and hurts Jane's feelings.
To make up for it, he prepared something special on their next anniversary.
Apparently thinking about leaving Wilson, The Husband Who Has Forgotten Their Anniversary.
Shame on you, Dad.Wilson shuffles into high gear when he realizes he may lose Jane.
He spends his days sitting by the lake feeding a swan and now he's in hospital insisting he's all right.And Jane...
She quietly mopes instead of taking the initiative and saying something like: "we're growing apart, what can we do?" and waits for Wilson to pick up on her silences.
Get a grip.Anyway, in the end it all works out for everyone, especially Jane who feels like a queen once again instead of just a friend.
This was my very first Nicholas Sparks book.
I decided to choose a book in the airport before boarding the plane.
I figured it may keep my mind off of flying- I never in my life thought I would spend the next 3 days unable to put the book down.
From that day on I continue to read Nicholas Sparks books.
For me I find his books to be captivating, always drawing me in and keeping me there as I continue to be unable to put his books down.
I must admit his books make me cry, but I still love to read them!
Noah, however, never gives up on his theory and insists that it is his dear beloved wife.Noah and Allie's oldest daughter, Jane, is married to Wilson Lewis.
She doesn't say exactly why she left, but Wilson knows she needs to get away to think things over.In the meantime, their oldest daughter Anna has announced that she and her boyfriend Keith plan to be married in a few weeks.
And all through these visits, Noah reminisces about his wife, while Wilson remembers his own first love Jane
However, I really liked the way the author made Wilson not a bad guy, but a good guy who just doesn't know any better.
I usually don't like mushy books because it always seems like it's way overdone, but this book was really sweet.The one aspect I didn't really like was the author ties the book to his previous one (which I love) The Notebook.
I kinda think the author tied the two together to get people to buy this second book.
Plus, if you are one of those girls who always hopes your husband were a hopeless romantic, but honestly, he never has been so chances are he never will be, don't read this book.
And even though he tries to be sneaky you'll have a pretty good idea early on of how it's going to play out.Despite the shining example set by his in-laws (Noah and Allie from The Notebook)THE WEDDING tells the story of middle aged workaholic lawyer Wilson Lewis and his year long romantic journey to rebuild his failing marriage.
Wilson spends the next year planning their 30th wedding anniversary.
With the memories of Noah and Allie as a guide and their old family home as a setting the wedding plans come together.
Nicholas Sparks: the author who never disappoints.Once again I was blown away by a book written by Sparks. It was so intense, so pure and the ending was a great surprise for me. Books like this one change the way people think. It was so perfect... in all the ways possible. I don't know why I didn't read this book sooner. I don't have words to describe what this book made me feel. But peace, tranquility, love and special seem to be the suitable words.
This book was different in two ways.
Second, it is not a story about two people meeting and falling in love.
I learned a lot about marriage from Wilson, the husband.
I also learned that in order to keep your marriage strong, you have to appreciate, compliment and listen to your spouse.
What else can I say about this book?
I loved the surprise ending of course!
I also learned that if you want to get your spouse the perfect present, you don't need to worry about the details because it'll come from the heart and you'll know what to get him/her.
Most love stories happen before and end with marriage, and the story ends and they've supposedly lived happily ever after. This book, however, shows that even after the rocky path that follows marriage, there's still a loving ending.The concept of the book is so beautiful, but the way it was presented was very difficult to get into at first. I also found that after reading many of his books, they start to become very similar, and predictable.The story was incredibly heartfelt, nonetheless, and I was so touched.
Adoré esta segunda parte de El cuaderno de Noah.Es la historia de la hija de Noah, Jane.Tiene una sorpresa que, por ser tan inesperada, sorprende.
While I enjoyed everything being happy and nice, I missed those deep feeling Sparks usually makes me feel with his books.
In this book we get to read about a couple who has been married for 30 years and while they had an amazing marriage, with time it has become nothing as it used to be.
It was so fascinating to see them fighting to stay together, to see the love the have for one anther and how even though with time a person can screw it over and over it's still possible to make things better.
This is the second Nicholas Sparks book that I have read; the first being The Notebook.
It was a decent read but not quite as engaging as The Notebook.
It could be the "male perspective" that comes across so clearly to me.
However, that being said, I suppose as a married woman, I should be glad to have a closer look at the "male perspective." I am getting used to Sparks' style of writing which I wouldn't say is quite chic lit.The story was a bit slow in the beginning but I really enjoyed the ending which turned out quite romantic.
Wasn't as good as The Notebook, but it was fine.. Sparks has this effect on me of always being able to shed at least a tear throughout his books, and even in times I think that the story is going to be plain he comes up with a surprising turn in the events.This is a story of the renewal of love, of vows, of compassion, and how it is possible for a couple to learn how to love each other again no matter how disappointed one is in the other.
It's been a really long time since I've read this (probably about 12 years ago) and I thought since this is my wedding year it would be a good time for me to read it again! Although I remembered what happened, I loved reading this in a whole new light! I could definitely use some help from Wilson to finish planning my own wedding!
The Wedding (The Notebook, #2), Nicholas Sparksعنوان: عشق گمشده؛ نویسنده: نیکلاس اسپارکس؛ مترجم: نفیسه معتکف؛ ویراستار: حمیده رستمی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر علم، 1383، در 358 ص، موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی
4,8
I see why most women would love this book (that may sound stereotypical but, hey ...).
I'd love that too but I feel for a guy who is faithful to his wife and did his best to provide for his family but, apparently, is still "majorly" flawed because ...
Also, I'm not an expert on being a parent and in marital affairs but would a mother go to her kids about marital issues?
And they didn't say in the book that she asked him to go away on vacation or anything.
I loved that they made the marriage work in the end.
Is this book a sequel to the Notebook?
Because it makes references to the Notebook, but maybe he's just trying to get your interest piqued so that you want to go and find his other books and read.
I loved this book.
I want to find rose petals all throughout the house and find a cute dress and high heels.
I swooned when I read it.While I personally don't agree with renewing of vows, I think in this case they did a good job at it.
It's not that I didn't kind of enjoy this book, it's just that it seemed a little, okay a lot contrived.
There is no way a man would ever behave this way...even a good and decent and worthwhile one.
I just think books like this contribute to divorced women who sit at home reading sappy romances and wondering why they can't find a man like that.
It reminds me of a 30 Rock episode I saw a while back where they are trying to make an older Latina woman change her bad opinion of the villain in her favorite soap opera.
Less good for a romance that's not trying to be funny.
Audio book read by Tom WopatThis is a sequel to Sparks’s incredibly popular The Notebook.
This book focuses on Noah and Allie’s oldest daughter, Jane, and her husband Wilson.
After forgetting their anniversary, Wilson spends the next year trying to figure out how to make it up to Jane, with some sage advice from his father-in-law, Noah.
I’ve read a couple of books by Sparks.
I listened to the first half on audio but read the last half of the book in one evening.
Tom Wopat does a surprisingly good job of the audio.
As I listened to "The Wedding," emotions and feelings I felt in "The Notebook," came flooding back.
Now, Noah is ninety.
Allie is gone.
Yet, Noah's love for his wife isn't.
Wilson Lewis forgets his anniversary, putting yet another nail in his dying marriage.
With many regrets over the years with his wife, Jane, Wilson vowed to cause her to fall in love with him again.What a story.
I loved it!Sparks goes to the soul of a person and ignites feelings of passion.
This was a story of love lost, rediscovered, and renewed.
It's a book of great encouragement and love.
way too sappy for me. i do like feel good books, but not sappy love stories. i just didn't buy that all their relationship issues were his fault. as a feminist i believe women are accountable for their happiness and if they aren't happy with their relationship they need to speak up/do something about it. i do believe that people can change and that theme in the book was good.
This was so sweet and romantic... A true emotional journey! Also, such a delight to see Noah again!
This was such a wonderful story!
Abandono. Creo que no me ha aburrido tanto una historia nunca. No la valoro porque quizá mejora después, pero yo no tengo paciencia suficiente.
This was a rather stagnating story; meaning that nothing much happened besides the musings of fifty-something man, Wilson, who's married to Jane, the daugther of the eldery Noah Calhoun (and Allie) who were the main characters of the Notebook.
After a thirty years of marriage, Wilson has finally realized that maybe his wife has fallen out of love with him.
It's always been his wife, Jane, that was close to the children, and close to what's at the emotional heart of their little unit.
What we witness in this book is the progression, the best-case-scenario of a man trying to win back the emotional connection to his wife.
Awesome!! I loved the book!! its one of the best romantic books i have ever read!! Though its a sequel to "The Notebook" , there is no compulsion that one shud that before reading this!! Frankly, i liked the sequel more than the prequel!! I am sure that people in their mid 40s wud def feel connected!!
