https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021196-fool-s-assassin
I have on occasion felt rather pleased with my writing, but reading Hobb's work always makes me realise I've got a long way to go.Hobb's particular mastery is in characters and the relationships between them.
Like a piece of music it builds on themes, reflects earlier melodies, improvises around them, and plays an old refrain.Sections of the story that I can't describe for fear of spoilers hit particularly strong chords with me and were very moving, but whatever individual experience you bring to the book it's going to play on your heartstrings.This isn't a high adrenaline book, though there's plenty of tension.
Instead, I’ll explain what makes this book stands out from the series and what makes this one of the finest books in the series so far.Fool’s Assassin is the first book in The Fitz and the Fool trilogy, which is also the last subseries within Robin Hobb’s The Realm of the Elderlings massive series.
Reading her prose about Fitz contemplating about the passage of time and how age changed a person physically and mentally in this book turns out to be the best sequences she ever wrote so far; she could go on and on about this and I’ll devour it with joy.
It's hard to talk about them without getting into spoiler territory, but I will say the resolution of Molly's pregnancy is genuinely surprising, and those of you anxious for a reunion between the characters of the title will be waiting a very long time.Hobb's writing is gorgeous, as always, and it's easy to fall into the cadence and rhythms of her story.
I will absolutely give the next book a read, but Fitz had damned well better return to his old self, and there had better be a significant payoff for all the time we've invested in tolerating that character/narrator I have been so careful not to spoil.Fool's Assassin is for hardcore fans only, and even then I suspect it will be something of a polarizing tale.
Not even a renewed relationship with his childhood sweetheart Molly Redskirkts could fill the gap nor could his strange daughter: Bee. He simply misses his friend and nothing but the Fool could end the emptiness.
"You never miss the water until the well runs dry." Robin Hobb leaves a trail that suggests that the Fool will return back to his Fitz, and this is what drove the novel forward.
I think it was the best ending she has written so far, I do hope Fitz finds his Bee, and that the Fool gets his revenge.
"Nothing warned me on that bright day that the darkest time of my life had begun."  03/05 : Reread of the week before finally summoning the courage to read Fool's Quest (please don't break my heart) (please) (pleeeeeeease)First of all, don't be fooled by the #1 here : you CANNOT read this book if you haven't read the two first trilogies. Trust me, it wouldn't make sense AT ALL, because it's Fitz's journey you're following here, and it started in Assassin's Apprentice.If you're - even a little
I still remember feeling scared, so scared (don't judge - I come from a 4 children family and never ever knew how to deal with silence - I didn't know then, anyway)This first night I grabbed Assassin's Apprentice and never stopped reading.
I cried for hours after this - don't get me wrong, I wasn't angry at Robin Hobb for the path she chose for Fitz, because this bittersweet ending?
If you know Robin Hobb, then you are aware that as a first book in one of her trilogies, you have to wait for things to settle down before expecting real action.
Sit, here by the fire, have a brandy and let us catch up.This is how I felt coming back into Fitz's company after a decade apart.
Reading this book felt like catching up with an old, dear friend.
<3The ending is somewhat of a cliff-hanger, and I'll forgive Ms. Hobb for that only because she is bringing more of my favorite Fitz my way and how could I possibly stay upset with her when she's doing that?And in the words of a wise fool, 'Time is an unkind teacher, delivering lessons that we learn far too late for them to be useful'.
Indeed, middle-aged retired Fitz having a well-deserved life with his childhood sweetheart and bringing a new winter baby into their lives was probably the sweetest damn thing the author could have done for him.She writes it so well that I don't even miss all the epic dragon battles or the battles with the Forged or the battle for the kingdom on the high seas, with Skill and Wit fighting together for once.
Like how unlikely it was for Fitz to let a (view spoiler)[messenger with an urgent, personal message (hide spoiler)] wait by forgetting all about her, then simply ignoring her presence.
(hide spoiler)]That, I could write off to Fitz possibly having lost his “edge”, a fear that he and others expressed throughout the book.
I despair.Anyway, only in the last 80 pages of this book did the pacing suddenly pick up, and did Fitz display some character when confronted with (view spoiler)[animal cruelty (hide spoiler)].
In all the other Fitz books we don't get to have any view but his and the messages and scrolls which appear at the start of the chapters, but seeing the new viewpoint of this book was excellent and added a whole other feeling of awesome to the book (Plus I LOVED the character we followed).This story is set about 15 years after the ending of Fool's Fate and I have to say it's exceptionally well written because it skips over a large chunk of time in the first half seamlessly.
This is a 5* book for sure (although I would give it more if I could) and I would highly recommend starting at the beginning of the Realm of the Elderlings books and working your way through this fantasy that Hobb has convinced me must be real somewhere.
Don't expect a plot-heavy story, but rather a look at how a tired and scarred man reacts to things trying to shake up his life, when all he wants to do is settle down with his family.Now, I've seen some complaints that it starts slow and the book only really "begins" in the final chapters.
They have the night and the running, and it is enough for them.I long to be that complete."And here's a spoilery one that killed me.(view spoiler)["There are endings.
I've waited a very long time for this book to come out, 10 years in fact.
I really begrudged Bee at the beginning, I'm not a fan of children in books, I didn't want Fitz to be tied down with a child, I wanted him to be free to roam around frolicking with the Fool!
Poor Fitz, things never go well for him and it seems like he is now about to start out on another huge quest, I only hope the Fool is able to tag along and keep him company.One of my favourite quotes from the book.She gathered her strength.
I agree with other reviewers who don't want to give anything away.
So instead, I'll give this book my highest praise; praise that listeners of the Sword & Laser know to be true.I stayed up on multiple nights, IN BED, reading this book without falling asleep.
I actually had to put the book down, consciously, to go to bed.
This may not sound like a big deal ("Oh, the book didn't put her to sleep?
I so love these characters.
So much heartbreak and love, sadness and reconciliation.
It makes we want to read the trilogy of trilogies again, which is kind of intense.
This is something I’ve always loved about Hobb’s writing, she could be writing about Fitz doing the laundry and can still manage to draw you in and make those pages turn as fast as if it were a scene in which Fitz were dying, all because of the realism and depth of her character’s musings.There is a second POV in this book, which was equally as gorgeously written as Fitz’s, but I won’t go into that ;) I think readers will enjoy this unique character and their POV as much as I did though.
The book introduces another narrator which could be done better, especially if the new narrator told the reader ANYTHING interesting or important for a Fitz novel.
I swear I was more impressed by the random cat who wanted a basket and a blanket than by the characters that have been very well constructed in all previous trilogies.
There's only about 500 pages of boring recounts of day-to-day lives of boring characters (the new narrator is very out of place), and the last three chapters that cover about 80 pages are the only interesting part of the book.
If I had wanted to read boring books I'd stick with Bleak House.
This isn't really the first book in a trilogy, but rather, the first third of a story; much of what's told here is exposition and focuses more on characters, their relationships, and setting the stage for what's to come.
I initially had no idea what to expect from Fool's Assassin; while Fool's Fate emotionally devastated me, I thought the ending was a bittersweet yet perfectly fitting end to Fitz's story.
(hide spoiler)]If you've come this far in Fitz's story, I don't doubt you'll enjoy Fool's Assassin.
4.5/5 stars!!
[My critical brain says 4.5 stars, my heart says SCREW THIS GIVE IT FIVE] “Time is an unkind teacher, delivering lessons that we learn far too late for them to be useful. Years after I could have benefited from them, the insights come to me.” Say hello to the slowest book on earth that managed to captivate me from page one, because Robin Hobb continues to be an evil genius. I gotta say, after my disappointment with Fool's Fate (if you are interested in me ranting click here) I was very apprehens
Classic Fitz throwing shade at himself :'DGlorious Fitz in all of his glory *swoon*This is the book where I loved Fitz best, where his already multi-layered character acquired more complexity and depth, we see him here in a new light literally, as there are chapters that aren't in his POV and for the first time we get to see him as seen by an other.
I won't say who's the other POV is to try to minimize spoilers.My other favorite new character is Bee, I love that little nugget, she's almost as intriguing as the Fool and she's adorable and I just can't ahhhh *clutches heart*
When the bee to the earth does fall, the butterfly comes back to change all. Reseña sin spoilers (como todas). Agggh, Hobb, te detesto. Me tuviste 550 páginas a merced de una historia que consistía esencialmente en decoraciones para el hogar y compras, y se te ocurrió la genial idea de darme un mazazo en la cabeza en los últimos cuatro capítulos. Eso fue duro, malvado, casi imperdonable. Personajes tan tridimensionales que vivían conmigo en mi rutina acabaron siendo sombras desdibujadas de lo q
Sometimes they coincide, with the ending of one thing marking the beginning of another.
Literalmente no pasaba casi nada, excepto refacciones hogareñas e introducciones de personajes sin gracia.
Sin embargo, una vez leído el final, me dije que, a pesar de los efectos soporíferos que este tomo tuvo en mí, tanta espera valió la pena.
El cierre de este libro es de lo mejor que ha escrito Hobb, quizá empatado con el de Fool's Fate.
I have had two life-altering experience when it comes to fantasy, first reading David Eddings The Belgariad as a teenager and then reading Robin Hobb The Farseer trilogy in my early twenties.
The rest is up to you to find out!Robin Hobb has written a fabulous book, a worthy follow-up The Tawny Man trilogy and I loved every page, every chapter was a truly joyous experience, it’s a book you read until your eyes can’t take in anything more and you have to sleep so you can continue reading the next day.
Pre-review@2107:I have mixed feeling about this new series, I want to revisit Robin Hobb's fantasy world but I'm a bit tired of Fitz and the Fool.
*sighs* Why can't we readers be left with the knowledge that Fitz is happy with his new wife and her family and the Fool gets to retire from his duty and lives a well-earned peaceful life or something like this?Thoughts after reading: alright, I had complained about "I don't want to read one more Fitz's book and why can't Ms. Hobb just let him live in peace!?" before, but as soon as I saw the Chinese translation of this book, I gripped it.
Because Robin Hobb still ends up somehow funnelling the story to a point, a convergence in time where the Fitz and the Fool come together as White prophet and Catalyst to cast a pebble in the rutt to jolt the wheel of time on a new course.
As such, how fans will take to this book depends very much on how they take to the new character Bee. If you like Bee, you'll end up loving this book.
Tawny Man did that to me, and I thought the Fool got such a bad deal at the end.
I found it deeply indulgent, and upsetting that Robin Hobb thought dragging out Fitz and Molly’s domestic life was a good idea.
There was NO PLOT, and this man doesn’t even read like Fitz.
A new Fitz and the Fool book could EASILY have been a masterpiece, but this is not!
I look forward to her returning to form for the next book in the trilogy and I really hope she gives the Fool a break.My M/M Fitz and the Fool fan fic is great fun!
What a great book!The most striking thing, to me, about this work is how very well Hobb balances small, quotidian dramas with world-shaking events.
And her writing is good enough that even the small things keep the reader on the edge of one’s seat (although this is not to imply that big things aren’t happening here as well).This is the seventh big, fat book following the life of FitzChivalry FarSeer.
Having followed the series from the beginning (as I have) will definitely enhance the reader’s experience – but I actually wouldn’t say it’s necessary to have read any previous volumes.
After being a bit disappointed in The Rain Wild Chronicles, I was super excited to get back into the world of FitzChivalry Farseer, and wow did I enjoy this book.
Because the reader has lived with Fitz for 6 other books before this and we know the background of this world with the Liveship Trader and Rain Wild Chronicles, this family focus really works.
The reason this book is so good is because Hobb's writing ability has become honed to a level that is some of the best in all of literature.
Since this novel is a continuation of a long established story line, I would strongly recommend first reading Hobb’s other Fitz series, starting with Assassin’s Apprentice.Fool’s Assassin begins by dropping the reader into the middle of Fitz’s happy retirement from the intrigue of the Farseer line.
Though it is not a hugely eventful start to a new series, it leaves the reader completely on the hook, and promises an ambitious story for Fitz’s future.The true magic of Hobb’s writing is how she makes the reader care for her characters.
I feel like Hobb's introductions are really weak. The first books always sets up the frame for the last two parts of the trilogy, so nothing really happens, and everything is kind of predictable. But man, can she write a middle book, does not suffer from the middle book problem, filled with actions.
This is the first book where I think I have lost a little faith in him, not that it's ever been a surprise that he is a flawed character, but he has always been my hero.This was slow and gorgeous as only Robin Hobb can be and yet with all those pages, the ending still seemed rushed.I remember not being completely taken with the Farseer trilogy the first time I read it and yet with hindsight, they were brilliant: they improve in the context of the overall story arc of Fitz's life.
A big fat wonderful book.
4.75 stars, review to come!!Here's my spoiler free review!https://rebeccagough.wordpress.com/20...
Executive Summary: I enjoyed it, though not as much as Fool's Fate, and if anything it's heightened my sense of dread that this trilogy will ruin that book's ending.NOTE: I always strive to write spoiler free reviews, but this one may fall a little short.
The other two may largely depend on the reader.The series is called Fitz & Fool.
I know this is the first book of a trilogy, but I hate cliffhanger type endings, and this one seemed pretty bad to me.
It's going to a be a LONG wait for me until book 2.Overall I really liked, but didn't love this book.
