https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31817749-the-stone-sky
ARC provided by Hachette in exchange for an honest review.1.) The Fifth Season ★★★★★2.) The Obelisk Gate ★★★★  “Some worlds are built on a fault line of pain, held up by nightmares. Don't lament when those worlds fall. Rage that they were built doomed in the first place.”  You guys, I’m speechless. I’m not sure if I’ve ever read as perfect of a conclusion as The Stone Sky. The Stone Sky easily makes my best of 2017 list, and is also without a doubt one of the most powerful masterpieces I’ve ever
And I dare you to finish this series, turn that last page, and not feel the urge to change this ugly world we live in today.This series is a SFF dystopian, where earthquakes, volcanic eruptions, and other terrible things impacting the earth are constantly happening, but orogenes are able to manipulate the earth to ease them.
The greatest thing about this series is that it seamlessly mirrors the world we live in today.
And the representation in this book is the best I’ve ever read in all my years.
Now THAT is how you do a finale...
Every question you have on the story so far will be answered here, what the Obelisk Gate truly is, the origin of Orogene, how the Shattering occurred, what caused the endless Fifth Season, everything and I mean literally everything from the first book is a preparation for the last five chapters of this book, which was full of revelations and imbued with emotionally thrilling climax sequences.
The Stone Sky is truly a stunning conclusion to a trilogy, I didn’t expect to love this one as much as I do, but this is definitely going on my 'favorites' shelf.
Even with my personal dislike about the second book, The Broken Earth trilogy is still a journey worth undertaking, Jemisin has poured all her emotions into this book and you won’t regret reading it.
I was blown away by the sheer immensity of what was going on, of the implications and the revelations and the final action.Sure, we knew that one of two things must happen by the end of the second book, but I hadn't quite realized just how invested I'd have gotten by that point.
because that was never the point of these books.We are all people.
I'm simply shaken to my core.This is one of the best stories I've ever read.It's more than sheer imagination, storytelling skill, world-building, or fantastically complicated characters or world-shattering events.
I don't know what the hell just happened! I'm going to have to re-read the whole trilogy again next year. I'm leaving this as being my mood because I enjoyed the first two books!! Damn it! Mel ❤️
Oh well gee, golly, gosh, let me just to review this masterpiece, no problem, easy peasy??? The further I get into a series, the harder it is for me to review each individual book because so much of my opinion relies on understanding everything that happened in the preceding books. More than usual, I find it so difficult to express what this series has made me feel. Just saying "it was amazing" or "it was mind-blowing" starts to feel repetitive & those common compliments don't really do the
This series is so complex, so full of raw emotion, & so beautifully distinct from other books of this genre.The writing here is some of the most engrossing I've ever read in my life.
I have no doubt The Broken Earth is a series that will have more to reveal upon each read through.The wrap of to this series is devastating but also wonderfully appropriate & well-crafted.
Nothing is immediately clear, and this story takes its time revealing itself to you, but I promise it is more than worth it.Honored to have read this with the wonderful, beautiful, amazing Melanie 💜 and the sweet, adorable, darling Petrik!
“I think,” Hoa says slowly, “that if you love someone, you don’t get to choose how they love you back.”  About the same quality as The Obelisk Gate, honestly, but with that STUNNING ending tacked on. I’ve talked about so much with regards to this series. Oh my god. You can always check out my reviews of The Fifth Season and The Obelisk Gate, but I’ll give a brief summary of my thoughts. It won two Hugo awards. The characters could kill me and I’d be okay with it. The worldbuilding is incredibl
About the same quality as The Obelisk Gate, honestly, but with that STUNNING ending tacked on.
This is the first book of this series that I’ve read entirely on audiobook, and though I absolutely adore Robin Miles and want you all to see what a fantastic job she does narrating these books, I don’t think this particular book is necessarily the best choice for an audiobook.
In this book, we again get povs from three characters; Essun, Nassun, and a new narrator - Hoa.
And I love these characters, so much, and I don’t think I could ever really hate a book containing them.
She's not afraid to make her characters prickly, even unlikable at times and I love them all the more for it.
The real greatness of this series is the world Jemisin has created- not only the "magic system," the blend of fantasy and sci-fi, or the diverse factions of characters, but how the nature of the world is primed to provide such deep commentary on so many grand, topical ideas.
The way Jemisin addresses those ideas- duty, exploitation, love, humanity, morality, acceptance, xenophobia, motherhood, justice, mercy- is powerful and soulful and she doesn't take any easy ways out.
I love how intricate and well thought out her worlds are and how political they are at their core while she still never ever sacrifices her story to make a point.
K. Jemisin frames her stories; I love how the framing makes sense and its originality, and here I especially adore it.
The framing device used fits perfectly to the world she has created here and to the way her story unfolds.
So yes, brilliant way to end a brilliant trilogy.
Let's end with the beginning of the world, shall we?
This is the second question placed at the very fulcrum of Stone Sky - who is humanity?
When reading Stone Sky I kept thinking that we would have just aborted all the orogene babies (just like we are aborting babies with Down syndrome).
You thought about surviving - but you couldn't get beyond that.” And then Maxixe concludes: “We don’t have to be what they made us”, i.e. the monsters people imagined orogens to be.The Stone Sky can be read on many different levels: as a political manifesto, as a philosophical treaty, as a sociological study or on a psychological level as a mother-daughter story.
*Spoilers*You know there's something wrong when a major character dies yet it leaves you unmoved.
Having cruised through the preceding serials, I was underwhelmed by this conclusion.
Not helping was the Info-dumping, likewise the glaring plot hole of the Onyx and Garnet Obelisk (read book one again to sess the inconsistency).
Additionally, the author's attempts at bringing some social issues to the fore was heavy handed, which is a shame really since the reader already caught on to these nuances right from the start of the series.
Overall, I didn't dislike how the story ended, I just didn't love it as much as the first two.
Sale Alert 30Dec17 Kindle Daily Deal for $4.99 . This was one of the best series I read in 2017 and it is on sale today hereIf you didn’t give this series a go because it is listed as Sci-Fi, don’t let that deter you. This is probably one of the best completed Sci-Fi fantasy series I’ve read in a while. As the third book in a very strong and genuinely unique series I had a lot of expectations going into the final book. There were so many things I wanted to know and the story had been so strong
There were so many things I wanted to know and the story had been so strong that I was worried it couldn’t finish out just as strongly.
I have read quite a few books lately that leave the end with an unfinished feeling to them and it really isn’t my favorite thing.For me, the ending was very satisfying.
I feel good knowing more about why Antimony ate him and why Hoa is going to eat Essun.
“This isn’t what you think of it,” Hoa says, and for an instant you worry that he can read your mind.
And she does it in a way that might make you appreciate how rarely series fiction manages to satisfy so well when it comes time for the final curtain.
While I don’t believe that stories necessarily have to tie up all loose ends or answer every unanswered question to be satisfying, The Stone Sky manages to stick a very tricky and almost perfect landing, resolving the trilogy’s key conflicts, clarifying most of its mysteries, and outperforming on a level of sheer emotional and visceral punch whatever you might have been anticipating from its finale.This is the work of a writer in complete command of her craft.
1. Malazan Book of the Fallen2. Stormlight Archives 3. Manifest Delusions4. Long Price Quartet 5. Broken Earth Needless to say cracking my top 5 series of all-time list every book in this series was a full five stars. The top two are set in stone but the next three are all pretty close and yet so distinctly different in concept. This story hit home for me on so many levels. First it’s an epic story transitioning over 40,000 years. The back story given to us in a trickle is brilliantly dispatched
First it’s an epic story transitioning over 40,000 years.
This book took on a lot of social issues.
The stories of slavery both in the traditional sense and also to the capitalist ghosts in the machine as well were well delivered.
That’s the difference between a fair to good story about magic and an epic one.
Last but not least what made this story epic for me and it’s the theme in all my top books/series the author had empathy bleeding out of the characters.
The climax of this book was cannot put it down, just have to get to the last page to see how this turns out reading.
In my review for The Obelisk Gate, I wrote that it felt more like the first half of a novel, so I am not surprised that The Stone Sky feels like the second half of that novel.
I think I might have preferred if Jemisin had simply released these last to books as a single volume, so I didn’t feel so much like I had to wait a year to read the rest of a book.
Some of The Stone Sky feels padded, and in particular the chapters that deal with the origin of the stone eaters could have been saved for a companion novella.
ONE BILLION STARS
It was pretty cool to discover that the stone eaters were created as a living bridge between the humans of the great civilisation of Syl Anagist and the powers of orogeny that the Sylanagistines were trying to control.They were created in the image of The Niess, a tribe of people who were objectively better at using magic than the Sylanagistines, and were subsequently destroyed and dissected by the Sylanagistines in search of the biological cause of their superiority (of course, this is The Stillness, so apparently nobody thought to ask them first, or observe.
I loved this damn series with all my weird heart.
I am absolute crap at writing reviews about books I love, but here it goes:- Evil Earth: I always thought that was a weird made-up phrase and this book explains EVERYTHING about where it came from.
Mind = blown- Weird third-person/first-person narration: I always thought that was seriously strange when it came up, but again now we find out why and WOAH- Secondary characters: Some of these are way stronger than others, but Schaffa needs his own book!
This has definitely earned it's spot on my favorite series shelf
Wow. I'm not sure of my final rating yet, but let me tell you, this series is an experience. RTC :)
While I definitely liked this book, and thought it was well written and creative, I didn't think it quite matched the brilliant storytelling impact of the first book, The Fifth Season.What makes Jemisin's books such a joy to read are the combination of unique voice and imaginative worldbuilding that she brings to bear.
But I didn't think the actual story in either The Obelisk Gate or in The Stone Sky was told quite as well as it was in The Fifth Season.But that said, I enjoyed how Jemisin tackled her story.
I love stories about family, friendships, survival, and sacrifice.
It's a story about choosing between the easy route of quick destruction and the hard route of permanent change.
Essun, a powerful orogene, escapes from the Guardians control in the first book in the series just as the latest and most destructive Season in the Stillness known history starts, (view spoiler)[ an event she is also directly involved in (hide spoiler)].
In the second book, Essun is searching for her kidnapped daughter Nassun, a powerful orogene in her own turn, and tries to make sense of the huge network of floating crystal mountains that span the world.This third book reveals most of the secrets hinted at in the previous episodes by going back to the source of all the troubles, a geological age ago, when a powerful, advanced civilization tried to put an end to famine and strife by harnessing the immense power at the core of the planet.
In the backdrop to all of this we finally get the story of the Obelisks and the stone-eaters and how the world came to be as it is.All three books in this series have been interesting from a structural point-of-view and that really crystallizes in this volume.
Essun's story goes to cementing the relationships that she began to form in the previous book with the people of Castrima and coming to terms with what she will have to do to save the world.
The story continues with the three-part perspectives of first, second and third-person of the narrator, Essun and her daughter, Nassun, respectively.
The Stone Sky concluded Essun's story from whence it took off in The Fifth Season as she went off in a desperate search for her daughter.
Please, readers, I implore that you read Jemisin's parting words at the end of the book as it is beautifully moving and the entire story of Essun and Nassun will resonate even more keenly in the depths of your emotions.Cover for Subterranean Press edition.
... yeah, I cried through the last 30 pages. Damn.
I'm still fumbling with my mind to produce some words to describe this brilliance, and I simply cannot.
This series is too precious and too important for me to describe in words.
There are things that I still didn't understand and I really need to start rereading this series but what my small mind did understand, was perfect and important in every way.
All I want to say is these books are very important and even if you don't like reading sf and sff, please do give this series a try.
Such a great ending but how am I supposed to go on now this series is over?
Last book, as any last book in the series that means something to you, goes slower since you're trying to prolong the inevitable.  End.  And after couple of days doing just that, sadly, I had to finish it.Truly satisfying conclusion to one of the most innovative trilogy I had pleasure to read. "Where there is pain in this book, it is real pain; where there is anger, it is real anger; where there is love, it is real love." More so because it indeed felt intimate and real.Thank you, Nora.
[3.75 Stars]My Spoiler Video Review:https://youtu.be/8ZWFRvFf4fEA good ending, but it wasn't as good as the first two in my opinion. It took me much longer to finish this than I had expected - 2.5 months, and I almost just resorted to spoiling myself and reading a summary. I'm glad I didn't, but I struggled through this one a bit.
It continues to be a well-told story with exciting twists and reveals, complex characters, and a backbone made of exploration of the ways that people with power wanting to maintain that power do so at the expense of others, of systemic oppression, in other words.Also, the Earth is literally an antagonist, so that’s awesome.Oh, also I wanted to talk about the second person narrator (which is featured about half the time).
Now that's how you stick a landing! Dudes and dudettes, this is the real deal: a classic fantasy trilogy that should be on the radar of any speculative fiction fan who wants to read what is unique, fresh, and exciting about the genre. Jemisin blew me away with  The Fifth Season , kept the momentum going with some hiccups in  The Obelisk Gate , and managed to meld all the elements of the series with a new narrative in The Stone Sky. We continue on with Essun and Nassun's storylines from where the
, and managed to meld all the elements of the series with a new narrative in The Stone Sky. We continue on with Essun and Nassun's storylines from where they left off at the end of The Obelisk Gate and make our way towards the inevitable tragedy of their reunion.
What's more, Jemisin finally shows her hand with a third POV that uncovers all the juicy mysteries of the past that have been hinted at throughout the trilogy.The Stone Sky is in every way a satisfying conclusion to a splendid trilogy.
The Broken Earth succeeds by making this fantasy feel exhilarating, emotionally rich, and distinctly Jemisin.
I loved these past few weeks I spent reading The Broken Earth trilogy.
