https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1041865.The_Spire
A BALANCING ACT Second readings are dangerous enterprises. Anything can happen. When I first read this novel, I thought the Spire, that gives the name to the title, stood defiantly by the end of the book. My attention was focused on the descriptions of how architects and builders managed to pull up the complex architectural structures that miraculously were built during the Middle Ages. I did not pay too much attention to the writing. At the time, my English did not have strong foundations, and
When I first read this novel, I thought the Spire, that gives the name to the title, stood defiantly by the end of the book.
Nonetheless, Golding has used a dream of a language as elusive and as ambiguous as the afternoon sun filtering through glass stained in a variety of hues, which led me to conclude that certainty is after all a Balancing Act. As Golding lived in Salisbury for several years, the reader easily thinks of Salisbury Spire being in the author’s mind when he worked on the scaffolding of his book.
Set in medieval England during the reign of Henry II it concerns a new Dean who seeks to have a spire built on his cathedral against advice to the contrary and what results from this.
The transformation of a cathedral into a medieval building site may not sound terribly exciting but it works through atmosphere and the confusion of motivations.
Throughout the Dean's language is centred on glorifying the cathedral, but as the novel progresses it is clear that his motivations are more confused and complex.
He sees the routes and roads shift to centre on to his town as the new spire becomes a major landmark.
Critics have noted how one-dimensional his style can seem when he ventures into certain areas (relationships between the sexes, social realism, contemporary settings), and despite his key novels (Lord of the Flies, The Inheritors, Pincher Martin, The Spire – all of them written in quick succession early in his career) being so far-removed from each other in terms of subject matter, there is a sense in which (like Stanley Kubrick) he seems to be mapping out various parts of the same, very Golding-esque universe.
With this in mind, I bought Golding’s fifth novel The Spire.Set in the twelfth century A.D.
Golding writes this in such a way that the reader is carried downward into the deepening pit of Jocelin’s insanity and, I have to say, there were a few times when I had to put the book down and go and reflect on what I’d just read and/or just take a huge lungful of sanity before I immersed myself in the book once more.
– The Audible audiobook version of this book is read by Benedict Cumberbatch and his performance is absolutely incredible.
Pretty good book. I would probably listen to it again just so I can hear Benedict Cumberbatch whisper in my ear. Yum!  This is the story of a clergyman who thinks he was given a divine message to build a spire on his church even though the builder warns against it. Soon the clergyman thinks he also hears the devil talking to him, too.  As he slips further into madness and the spire grows, we see how the actions of his congregation change without his guidance and how that effects him.
May be three and half stars.On the surface, the plot looks very simple.
Nepotism plays a main role in placing a less qualified person as a Dean of a Cathedral.
The Dean considers it as his Call.
Later as a Dean he has a vision and wants to transform the vision into a reality by building a spire to the cathedral.
The Deans considers it his Call and goes ahead.
This foolish attempt is always referred to as Dean's Folly.The plot looks very simple.
I love symbolic language and subtle allusions.
I was caught between the plot and the symbols.
O kadar roman yaz, hepside birbirinden güzel olsun, ama hepsi de zamanında yazdığın bir romanın gölgesinde kalsın.Neyse efendim, biz romanımıza dönelim.
Kule; evet bir Sineklerin Tanrısı değil.
Bir meleği var.
Ama bizim Jocelin takmış kafayı.
"Yapılacak o kule"Usta yıkılır dayanmaz dese de yapılacak sen merak etme diyor.
"Yahu zemin müsait değil" dese de usta, "Sen merak etme ben biliyorum, tanrı böyle buyurdu, o kule yapılacak"Ustayı delirtiyor.
Usta ne kadar bırakıp gitmek istese de manyak rahip izin vermiyor.
Gizemli bir teyzesi var rahibin, ondan da para geliyor.
Sen kimsin fakir usta!Derken inşaat sırasında bir gün toprak kayması oluyor.
Hatta bir ayyaş oluyor.
It is a book packed with metaphor, and although written in the third person, it is fully inhabited by the main character Jocelyn's mental landscape.
He is a man obsessed by a vison and a charge, which he is convinced has been placed on him by God, to erect a huge spire atop an already existing cathedral.
The book, although written in linear time, has a nightmarish quality, and an out of sync feel about it - just as the main character's clarity of purpose is unbalanced by obsession.Serious stuff, superb writing.
(Golding likes his Freud; not for nothing is this a novel about a spire.) A spare selection of characters are ranged around Jocelin’s wounded, flailing, ecstatic consciousness, and they complement him well, especially the brilliant, tormented architect Roger Mason and his shrewish wife Rachel (shrewish in Jocelin’s perspective, at least; Golding is too adept at maintaining his focalizing character’s point of view for us to have any confidence that Jocelin’s vision of these characters would bear any resemblance to how we might see them ourselves.)I was intrigued to see that Franck Kermode had reviewed The Spire for the New York Review of Books when it first came out in 1964.
I looked it up, and it’s a great review, especially perceptive on the power of Golding’s language and the violence of his vision.
A priest builds a spire on a cathedral according to a spiritual vision, believing it to be the calling of God and dependant upon his will and faith to bring it to completion, destroying his congregation, vocation and sanity in the process.The prose is dense and disorientated, flashing between coherent thought, delirium, reality, reverie and nightmare.
Certain themes and motifs are repeated throughout some of which hints at an understated, repressed sexuality.
There is often reference in the narrative to previous scenes and conversations that were either only partially, or just inadequately depicted in the first instance, meaning that at times the story loses coherency, even descending into abject nonsense.
In it, he has created is a brilliant, densely woven, intensely introspective study of obsession and faith, which pushes everyone around him to the very edge of endurance.
Golding did a brilliant job showing us as the readers how the gigantic phallic spire in the sky is not just an individual obsession but linked inextricably to his own illness and growing madness, which is in turn linked to the main character's own grinding sexual frustration.
Golding's ability to reveal information carefully in stages within his densely clouded and coded text, show a writer at the height of his imaginative and expressive powers.
The worst! I challenge everybody out there to read it and find something to like about it!
"Smaili" izvēlējos Grāmatu klubam, kas šomēnes lasa jebkā godalgotu literatūru. Nolēmu sākt ar pašu ievērojamāko un nopietnāko - Nobela prēmiju.Jāatzīst, ka bez grāmatas beigu komentāriem būtu ļoti daudz palaidusi garām, jo visus tur minētos plānus nesaskatīju man tas bija gana interesants darbs par kādu viduslaiku abatu, kurš, izdomājis, ka augstam tornim pietiek ar vīziju un ticību, un tas, ko mūrnieku meistari stāsta par pamatiem ir pupu mizas. Bet tā jau arī ir labas literatūras pazīme - ja tu gribi, pieturies tikai pie sižeta. ja spēj un gribi - rocies dziļi, un tur būs ko atrakt,
As the spire rises, tensions do so as well to a boiling point.This is a very demanding novel due to its narration style (it is written in the style of stream of conscience, but solely from Jocelyn's perspective) as well as its heavy symbolism and imagery.
The apocalyptic, maddening and at times horrific imagery is conveyed perfectly through Golding's excellent narration skills, the dialogue between Jocelyn and his contenders riveting and the symbolism comes across crystal clear.So, even if the narration is somewhat difficult at times, ultimately it is a very addictive and immersive read.
However, after reading "The Spire" there is hardly a doubt in my mind that his other works are worth seeking out.
Sonunda bitirebildim. Konunun içeriği de anlatış biçimi de gerçekten çok yorucu. Hristiyanlık kültürü ile doğrudan alakalı. Eser sembolik anlatımlar ve hristiyan mitleri ile dolu. Bu da kültüre yabancı birisi için ızdırap verici oluyor.
Such books merely transpose today's sensationalism to a remote timeperiod; but deliver nothing more than the same tawdry potboiler intrigues we're familiar with from TV.'The Spire' is, in fact, literature; in that Golding exposes a forgotten way of life which heretofore has had little light shed upon it.
It's refreshing in that respect.Now. All that being acknowledged, what else can be said about Golding's storytelling, his technical manner of prose, and the sum worth of reading this particular book?
What does it have to offer the modern reader?First, you can quickly see (when you read a few pages of any of Golding's books) that he exercises a very unbridled, powerful, 'coursing' style of prose.
As I read this story I felt as though the author was reaching inside of me and tearing out something that is flawed or blinded by what I want to believe. William Golding unsettles me yet this is his most compelling story I have read so far. Splendid and very atmospheric!
The Cathedral, possible based on Salisbury, since Golding lived close by, lacks a Spire, for good reason, being built on marshy ground with inadequate foundations.
Jocelyn has had a vision where an angel showed him the Cathedral, complete with the highest spire ever built in Britain shaped as a metaphor for the perfect prayer to God. Jocelyn believes that men need to see this symbol to be able to commune with their creator.
Jocelyn is tortured by the simultaneous, internal warfare within between this angelic vision/obsession and the attack of devils which seem to feed on unfulfilled physical desire and human pride within.
William Golding's  The Spire  is another of those 'improving' books that my father bought me years ago. This edition claims to have been published in 1983, but that feels a little to early – 1989 sounds more likely. That said taking 'only' 14 years to read a gift still feels woefully inadequate. Luckily he doesn't have a Goodreads account, so he'll never know.The Spire is the story of Dean Jocelin and his spire. He is a man who has been touched by a vision; a man who God has charged with the tas
He is driven to this despite the protestations of the master builder, Roger Mason; despite the increasing complaints of his colleagues in the cathedral chapter meetings; despite the increasing costs and lack of money; despite, most worryingly of all, the lack of substantive foundations for the cathedral and the increasing 'singing' from the building as the extra weight is laid upon it.
By any yardstick his mind is failing faster than he has the strength to force his builders to put up the spire.The novel feels very densely written, very descriptive without it necessarily being clear what's being described.
It's assumed that Dean Jocelin's visions were imagined, but there's no clear narrative either way: (view spoiler)[the spire stays up against all the odds (hide spoiler)].
My reading of 'The Spire' had ground to almost a halt when I went to see Roger Spottiswoode's adapted play at Salisbury Playhouse, having originally intended to finish the book beforehand.
It was so worthwhile to persevere to the end, and I'm thankful for having had the play to help me along.
It still feels wrong to be giving such incredible books such mediocre ratings, but I feel they are all I can give from the person that I am right now, at this point in time.
Description: Dean Jocelin has a vision: that God has chosen him to erect a great spire on his cathedral.
His mason anxiously advises against it, for the old cathedral was built without foundations.
Nevertheless, the spire rises octagon upon octagon, pinnacle by pinnacle, until the stone pillars shriek and the ground beneath it swims.
Its shadow falls ever darker on the world below, and on Dean Jocelin in particular.Opening: He was laughing, chin up, and shaking his head.
Another disconcerting read from Golding, I had my slapping hand ready for Jocelyn.3* Pincher Martin3* Lord of the Flies 4* The Spire
Aşırı sıkıcı bir konu sayfalarca ilgi çekiciliği olmayan kuru bir anlatım, yarım bırakma huyum olmadığı için ite kaka bitirdim.Golding'in okuduğum ilk kitabıydı kendinden soğuttu diyebilirim, uzun bir süre Golding kitaplarının kapağını açmam sanıyorum.
Tüm sevgilerin iyi olduğu bir hayat tarzı olmalı, bir sevginin diğerini alt etmeye çalışmadığı, aksine diğerinin gücüne güç kattığı bir hayat tarzı..
The Spire is really a story of overweening pride, megalomania, and the downfall that must follow.
Dean Jocelin wants to add a 150-foot spire to his cathedral.
As the spire rises into the heaven, the spirits of those below fall dark: Mason’s infidelity is discovered by his wife Rachel, who puts an iron necklace (literal or figurative?) on him to control his whereabouts; Goody Pagnall dies in the birth of Mason’s child; Mason turns to drink; the workmen decamp as the cathedral begins to sing and moan from its developing stresses; the townspeople refuse to come to church services for fear of collapse; and the Dean’s angel turns out to be, well … not angelic.
For the first time I understood symbolism more deeply than "Piggy's glasses = civilization" and "the spire = a penis." In all my classes before, I had been taught that symbolism in literature followed a simple this-for-that substitution and could be boiled down nicely for multiple choice exams.
You're not in my net—oh yes, Roger, I understand a number of things, how you are drawn, and twisted, and tormented—but it isn't my net.
Even in the old days He never asked men to do what was reasonable.
Then, if men have faith, a new thing comes.' (116) (hide spoiler)]
Sineklerin Tanrısı'nı okumuş ve çok sevmiş biri olarak kitaptan beklentim büyüktü.
Ama kitabı çok zor okudum.
Sorun çeviriden mi kaynaklanıyor acaba diye düşündüm ve buradaki bazı yorumlara göz atınca aynı sıkıntıları orjinal dilden okuyanların da belirtmiş olduğunu gördüm.Zemini çok da sağlam olmayan bir kiliseye transept kulesi inşa etmek isteyen bir rahip üzerinden insana dair birçok zaafın din ve inşaat ekseninde anlatılması çok güzel olabilecekken bir şeyler eksik ya da fazla olmuş.
(daha önce bir transept kulesi şantiyesinde bulunmadıysanız kitabın içine girmekte zorlanabilirsiniz.) Kitapta isimler de dahil birçok simge var, yapı ustasının adının Mason olması gibi, kızıl saçlı kadının magdelalı meryemi simgeleyebileceği gibi.
Tastamam bir bina mıdır?
This book seems like it was written for someone a lot smarter than I am. As soon as I was finished I had to read a bunch of critical analyses just to understand what I had just finished. While beautifully written and engrossing at times, there was so many subtle, unexplained HUGE plot points that were only implied. I didn't even comprehend that the story took place in the 1300s for about the first third of the book! Books like this get forced onto young readers by crap teachers and turn them off to reading for life. Meh...not impressed. Sorry.
I GIVE UP.!! After seeing this book on my table and shelf for a really long time and unable to turn two or three pages without feeling irritated,I finally give up. I returned the book to the library yesterday and am not planning to try to re-read it until I find a really compelling reason to do so,or until I want a crash course in patience.
An amazing tale !
I found this a difficult read ... I enjoyed it ... I did think Pillars of the Earth was lent something by this ...
