https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5509.Anne_Frank_Remembered
She may have a co-author, but her voice comes though loud and clear.Like the documentry about Anne Frank, this book does much in dispelling some of the myths that surrond the Frank family and thier assoicates.
The epilogue is one of the few places were she really sounds angry about those people.Recently, historians have pointed out that stories such Gies' makes it sound as if the Dutch were far more subversive and saved more Jews than they actually did.
It simply, like the book, makes us consider the wider picture.
I stand at the end of the long, long line of good Dutch people who did what I did or more—much more—during those dark and terrible times years ago, but always like yesterday in the hearts of those of us who bear witness.
Miep is the woman who, with her husband Jan Gies, helped hide Anne Frank from the Nazis.
Like so many young Jewish girls growing up I was more than a little obsessed with stories from the Holocaust; especially The Diary of Anne Frank.
Anne Frank Remembered by Miep Gies & Alison Leslie GoldNarrated by: Barbara Rosenblat5 starsThe story of Anne Frank has been told for many decades and is one that resonates with a lot of young people.
Miep Gies was one of the people who helped hide the Franks in the Annex and this is her story.
We follow Miep as a young girl in Vienna, her love for the Dutch, her journey to become an official Dutch citizen during the Natzi regime, her relationship with the Franks (before, during, and after the war), her plight to feed the Franks and retain enough food for them as well as her and her husband, and the fear that lurked in her heart for the Franks and countless others she helped hide or knew were in hiding.
This is an amazing book by Miep Gies. It was Miep and her husband who helped to hide the Frank family during WWII, and who provided food and comfort to them. It was heartbreaking and powerful. I admire the author and her husband – what brave heroes they were!
Miep foi uma das pessoas que mais ajudou os moradores do anexo secreto onde Anne Frank ficou escondida.
Ela além de trabalhar normalmente no escritório onde ficava o esconderijo, fazia o impossível para conseguir comida e tudo que os moradores escondidos precisavam.
Neste livro Miep Gies conta sua história, tudo o que viveu naquela época sombria de guerra.
Ela participou de todos os eventos e fatos importantes relacionados à Anne Frank; Esteve quando a família Frank foi para o esconderijo, foi ela que foi rendida no dia que a família frank foi presa, Foi Miep que recolheu e guardou o Diário de Anne Frank .Um livro magistral dessa heroína que morreu recentemente com mais de 100 anos !!!
Wow! This story will teach you everything you need to know about true friendship, loyalty, and fortitude. It's better than any novel of World War II.
Simply fascinating, as I knew it would be.Tears in my eyes as I read that Peter van Daan survived "The Auschwitz Death March"(as did Elie Wiesel who documented that nightmare experience in the book "Night"),only to die in Mauthausen on the same day that the camp was liberated by the Americans.
His daughter Anne did not survive the Nazi concentration camp but her diary, her thoughts, her words, and her heart will live forever.
It was through the actions of Miep Gies who first hid the Franks and then rescued and saved Anne's diary and later gave it to her father Otto that we know Anne's deepest, more heartfelt thoughts.
This book documents the story of Anne from just before she went into hiding until her death and even beyond when Otto Frank returned to live with Miep and her husband and received the now-famous diary.
Miep Gies is one of those people.
What a moving and inspirational book. A definite must read for all.
The narrative in Gies's memoir is not directly linked to particular days Anne wrote about, but readers familiar with the diary will see some clear connections.One of the things that's special about Gies's book is how it fills out the picture of what was happening when the Franks and others were in hiding.
It's gripping, terrifying, and heartbreaking.For me, the most impressive aspect of this story is what Gies summarizes in the quote above, from the preface to the book: that she was an ordinary person making the best choices she could in dark times.
This is the memoir of Miep Gies who helped hide Anne Frank and her family. Very powerful. In addition to the Frank story, we learn about the impact of the war on the citizens of Amsterdam. I now plan to reread Anne's diary.
But then, as the book progressed and I got more and more absorbed into it, I found that all these recollections connected to paint a most vivid and sharp image of those times: the fear, tragedies and losses; the small miracles; the every day acts of bravery of those who fought against the Nazis with their meagre mean; the short moments of joyous reprieve when a cup of real coffee, or a whole tray of strawberries, was found; the moments of despair and those of hope… Mostly, it shows the absurdity of those times when “thieves were safe but Jews were not” : how far the hatred went, how much the people changed, how deep everyone fell… and how despite all this life went on, those who had a job continued to go to work everyday and the Frank business ran all through the war.In her diary Anne paints a unique picture of what it was like to grow up as a hidden Jewish young girl.
Her host family, who went on to adopt Hermine, gave her the nickname Miep.In 1933, the young woman took up a job as an office assistant in the spice business of Otto Frank, who had emigrated to the Netherlands with his family following the Nazi takeover.
After refusing to join a Nazi women’s organization in 1941, Miep only escaped deportation to Austria by marrying her Dutch friend Jan Gies.”Meip’s new husband (named Henk in the books for the purpose of privacy) and Meip were not Jews, so therefore were supposedly protected from persecution.
I recently reread, "The Diary of Anne Frank" and while it is a very moving and wonderful journal it left me with so many questions about how the hiding place really worked out for so many months.
I was just amazed at how devoted she (and the few other office workers who knew) was to those in her care.
Mr. Frank would still make plans and decisions from the annex and Anne and Margot would come down at night and do office work for Miep and Elli (and office girl).
During this time he was distributing Anne's diary which Miep had illegally recovered from the annex the day they were arrested.
Absolutely riveting autobiographical account of Miep Gies, the woman who (along with her husband, Jann) kept Anne Frank and her family in her attic during WWII in Amsterdam.
From start to finish, this is very absorbing.You'll also learn about Gies' life before the Franks came to her.
Reading both this and her diary together would be ideal as each account feeds into each other very effectively.It's amazing that we're able to see the other side of Anne's diary told in this way.
It's absolutely recommended, as much as the original diary is.
I really enjoyed getting this backstory on the Frank family and their friends. Haunting read, but anything concerning Anne Frank always is.

Miep Gies was the one who helped sustain the Franks in their hiding place, and who later, after the Germans found out about the "Secret Annex" and raided it, scooped up Anne's diary and notes, to save them for posterity.
Miep Gies speaks for them all.Postscript The diary of Anne Frank touches anyone reading it.
It is indeed "the story of a life," and covers much more than the diary--telling about Anne's family and its life before going into hiding, clarifying what went on in "the secret annex," as well as what happened after the family was arrested.
I decided to read Anne Frank as an independent reading book.
This book is basically about a girl named Anne and she has to go into hiding with her family.
I had a relative that probably got captured in the war.
That relative was russian and he got captured in Russia.
I found out recently and my aunt found it out because the relative didn't send any more letter during the war.
I give this book ***** stars.
I gave this book 5 stars because it really showed depth.
I suggest this book to people who are interested in the Holocaust.
Anne Frank's familiar story told from the rescuer's viewpoint.
I found most interesting the lives of the Dutch during the Nazi occupation, as I already knew the story of the Franks.
This didn't add much to that knowledge, other than Meip's impressions of the family.
Of course, she downplays her own courage in sheltering not only the Franks, but several others in hiding as well.
All in all, very interesting, an excellent audiobook, highly recommended for those interested in the subject.
The story as told by Miep Gies adds context and understanding to The Diary Anne Frank.
I found it very satisfying to hear of Miep's fondness for Anne and her entire family including the fact that Otto Frank came to live with Miep and her husband after the was.
Miep tells not only that but also the experience she and her husband in the underground, their interactions with Nazis and their struggle to find food for themselves and others.
Miep tells the story in a careful, considerate, and credible manner.
i remember doing a middle school project on this book and becoming obsessed with it. so, so interesting and so, so sad.
I'd wager that you probably wouldn't be able think of much else for a while.Another issue that I've seen people take with Miep's story is that she focuses solely on the persecution of the Jews during the war, and not the other groups targeted by Hitler.
I am nearly positive that most of the things he wrote about focused on the persecution of other Jews.Miep is famous because she helped hide nine people throughout the war, and she very famously helped one person in particular: Anne Frank.
This book was lent to me by a friend after she learned I had just finished reading "The Diary of Anne Frank." It is a hard book to give a rating to and I almost don't want to give it one as a result.
Reading Miep Gies account of that horrible time in their lives was like sitting down with an old friend and hearing her reminisce.
She definitely comes across as a person I would like to know and have in my life.Having read "The Diary of Anne Frank," it was interesting to read what it was like for those who helped hide them - I never imagined just how stressful that would be!
I first read "The Diary of Anne Frank" when I was in junior high, and I also was the stage manager for the play depicting the Frank family's life in hiding.
I like to think I knew a lot about the Frank's, this perspective from Miep, however, brought them all to life in new and eye-opening ways.
More than anything, I couldn't stop thinking about how many people shared Anne's fate that we don't know anything about.
The best and worst of humanity is captured in Anne's story, and in all the anonymous stories for the millions of people around the world who suffered and continue to suffer her same fate.
Prachtige getuigenis van Miep Gies over hoe ze Anne Frank en haar gezin hielp onderduiken.
Ook zijzelf heeft te kampen met de ontberingen van de oorlog.
Ze schrijft over trouwe vriendschappen, verzet en helaas ook verraad.
Ze schrijft ook over hoe de oorlog ten einde liep en hoe de zoektocht naar haar vrienden verliep.
Het is een tragisch verhaal met een zeer sterke boodschap.
Het boek krijgt van mij vijf sterren.
Het was een zeer pakkend, ontroerend verhaal.
Over een meisje die haar kansen op een leven, op geluk, of spelen met vriendjes, ontnomen zag enkel en alleen omdat ze 'een Jood' was.
What an excellent book! Believe it or not, I have never read Anne Frank: The Diary of a Young Girl, but I will be now. I listened to this book on audio and at first, I did not like it because of the narrator. She was way too slow, but I played around with different playback speeds and found one that was not too slow, as well as not making the narrator sound like she was one of the Chipmunks. I look forward to determining whether I like this book or Anne Frank's Diary better. I definitely recommend this book!
Review to come.
Review coming soon.
I've read Miep Gies' touching account of war-time in Amsterdam, and her friendship with the Frank Family before, but it is still one of the best stories of this horrid period in history. Miep is great narrator, and the book is well-structured and simply fascinating from the first to the last page.
