https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6759.Infinite_Jest
What he apparently means is ‘Cf. note 304 infra.’ I couldn’t normally care less about this sort of thing, except that in this book it coexists with a laboured subplot about militant ‘prescriptive grammarians’, for whom DFW clearly has much misguided sympathy.PROSECUTOR: Your honour, surely it’s now clear that the defendant is trying to build a case based on trivial inconsequentialities of personal style.WARWICK: I know it seems like nit-picking, but the thing is these little mis-steps here and there all contribute to a general sense that you are not in safe hands.
the first time i got to meet him, i dropped this book in front of him - by now all tattered and smooshed, and he seem surprised that "someone has actually read their copy." and then i gave him a card that had been a thank you card, but i crossed out "thank" and wrote "fuck" in its place and said "fuck you for writing the great american novel before i got the chance to." this is the kind of thing i think is charming because i am deeply flawed.
It's my habit to write on the inside sleeve of a book the words from the text that I can't define or don't understand. Here is the resulting list from the back inside sleeve of Infinite Jest:apocopesbolectionsregletsdipsomaniaquincunxvaricocelessimpaticoaleatoryexperialistagnatepedalferrousfulvouslouveredsangfroidgibbonsapercueideticmuratedtumescentrecidivismerumpentrutilanthalepurlednacellesulcusimprecatedtumbrelcomportmentscopophobicasperityrapaciousafflatusbatheticbrachiformstrabismicascaparticavuncularaditfactotachuffingneuralgiactumideustacianxerophagygynecopiasuborningsolecisticlissomeascaparticanapesticbradyauxeticlordosiscorticatemucronatecodicillumenacreouspuerilethanatopticspansuleshaspprognathousnonuremicapothegmapicalsselvagedcaparisoncunctationsaphasiacetiologyprolixchymeamanuenticfalcatejejunecatastaticeschatologydeclivitymaffickingcuirassvigmiasmacorditecirrhoticreveilletektiticcrepuscularthrenodyemerymysticetouslyanechoicanorakerumpent (again - apparently I didn't remember it from the first time)aphasiacreseaudiverticulitiscathexisskirlingdunexaculatesaphasiaanodizedpicayunecaprolaliacverdigrisedcoruscantanacliticcatexicsybariticallyrestenoticmalentenduperipateticlordoticrictalthanatopicolla podidainguinalsudoriferousswartemeticparotiticalacritysinciputkyphoticciquatoxicI didn't realize until later in the book that DFW often makes up words. I will post a full review at my blog, meekadjustments.blogspot.com.
While I don't actually have A Favorite Book (or Song, or Album, or Band, or Film, or Painting, or Sexual Position, or any other category of things that contain more than one equally great contender) Infinite Jest is the first book that immediately comes to mind when the idea of My Favorite Book arises.As I've already alluded to and partially instantiated in a few scattered places around GoodReads, I feel that I read this book at the right time.
You start the book having no clue when it is happening and who the various characters are.
There is stuff that happens in the opening pages that explains events at the end of the book.
A vast swath of Americans are driven by short attention, knee-jerk reactionism based on their inability to choose and their reliance of "alternative facts." President J.
DFW's book can be read as much of a warning againsy Drumpf as Roth's The Plot Against America or Lewis' It Can't Happen Here.
And I digress...An important book for the 21st C!
If you want a beautiful, wildly ambitious, insanely indulgent, uncompromising mind-bending skull-violating MESS, one that comprises an entire Victorian manor of the Crazy Project, then Infinite Jest may well be worth your while.The book is, definitely, a mess, let's not mince words.
To say I'm "biased" and a bit blinded to criticisms about this book is hardly the point -- I think its a marvel, I think its a mess, I think it taught me what the difference is between a book & a novel, and why I think BOOKS are what the front-line artists working on the Crazy Project are really hammering out.update/addendum: I wrote this when DFW was still alive.

The experience which is so much like ogling the Mona Lisa live at the Louvre for the first time: you can already envision her in your mind.
The things that stick out are the sordid details: the head in the microwave, the shot in the face; the molestation of little boys, of invalids; a hanging fetus.If you say I.J. is the future of the novel, you definitely haven't read 1936's "Gone with the Wind." Almost a full century old, that tome really justifies its girth (like "Lonesome Dove" & "The Stand" do, like "Don Quixote" & "Les Miserables" eons ago).
Don’t trust his five star review of “Infinite Jest” (“IJ” for short, but not for long).He is a classic pseudo-intellectual, who occasionally comes under the sway of people like Nathan, MJ and a few female Good Readers with brains and/or ambition, and tries unconvincingly to run with their small herd, while simultaneously feigning the impression of reading, appreciating and reviewing the big books that appeal to them.
Surely, DFW meant everything his words implied.Therefore, they are not incongruous, they are deliberate and congruous.This is starting to sound like that other Ian Graye, so I will stop.PlayfulnessOK, so they play tennis in this book.
If this book was endless *9, I probably would have spent my life cheerfully reading it and then asked for a copy on my deathbed just to try and squeeze a few more pages in.I’m not sure why I liked it so much.
I don’t know how, and I think that figuring it out might be like when you learn how a magic trick was done so I’m just going to shelve it, always be glad that I took it on and managed to finish it, and re-read it someday once the memory of the endless pages of endnotes has faded.
“Sometimes excess isn’t enough.” –some anonymous Springfield reader The Years of Humble Beginnings A couple years ago, somehow I stumbled on this site and realized, very quickly, what a tremendous opportunity it presented. A chance to catalog my library my way. How nice for me. Even better, a chance to rate books, the ones I loved and the ones I liked less. Oh. Oh! And there were people here, names that kept popping up when I read reviews of books I’d loved. So I did what I imagined any intelli
And there were people here, names that kept popping up when I read reviews of books I’d loved.
Lo and behold, people started asking to be my Friend.
The (What Felt Like a) Year of Reading Infinite Jest
All the talk of the novel’s humor, for me, became: there’s another one of those scenes/statements/moments that everyone else probably think was really funny; insert laugh track here.
Why do I have to be among the 7 people (friends and those I follow) who weren’t impressed with the novel and gave it only 2 or 3 stars?
And Lo, for the Earth was empty of form, and void.And Darkness was all over the Face of the Deep.And We said:Look at that fucker Dance Real life is a pain. Real life is a bitch. Real life slumps you together from a squiggly mess and shoots you out to a cold and unfeeling world, empty in mind and soul. So you scrounge around for meaning, whatever fulfills your personal definition of said meaning, eyes gaping for that next slice of indomitable thrills and chills, mouth pincering over a statue in
Not only did he know this, he was courageous enough to proclaim that he knew this from the highest rooftop, spilling out a novel that scoffs, declaims, and drowns the old conventions of making life this easy whore that only requires adherence to paper to make itself completely tangible and understandable in every way.
Give me recognition that the brain is an organ just as unwieldy and unreliable as the heart or the kidney, and thinking your way out of something is sometimes the worst possible decision you could ever make.
There are moments of true brilliance that are exceptional achievements, and the characters are fantastic, the world-building absolute top-notch, but if you have to leave the "ending" up to your audience to imagine in their collective heads instead of – I don't know – WRITING IT, you wrote yourself into a corner and didn't/couldn't write your way out.Yes, I've gone back and read the first chapter after finishing it.
Or maybe none of that, because there isn't an ending, so we do not and will not ever know what actually happened.
It's not an easy read, but after a while you discover that there are good reasons why it has to be the way it is.
The review is the mini-blog I kept while I was reading it.
It sort of contains spoilers: I don't give away very much about the plot, but I do spend a lot of time speculating about what the overall point of the book is.
So if that kind of thing bothers you, you probably shouldn't read on.
Read Infinite Jest instead, then come back and see if you agree with me :)The rest of this review is in my book What Pooh Might Have Said to Dante and Other Futile Speculations
One that wasn't even paying rent, but it gives okay head so I kept it around.I read 37 other books in the time that I spent also reading Infinite Jest.
I never take almost four months to read a book that I love, so that fact alone must mean I really hated this, right?Oh, if only it were that easy.I don't love Infinite Jest.
I know he wrote books like Infinite Jest, had a rough life, died way too young at his own hand, and...
The reason for all of this preamble is to share these couple of lines that come towards the end of "Save Your Generation":You have to learnto learn from your mistakes.You can affordto lose a little face.The things you break,some can't be replaced.A simple rule:every day be sure you wake.One of the things DFW liked to point out in interviews is that we are bombarded with a massive amount of information and part of our goal is to make sense of all that information.

It's a hasty sneer with perhaps some basis for its attitude but certainly not in the review as written, and the author would gladly delete it save for the fact that it hosts a comment thread other people find productive.So enjoy discussing the works of DFW with my blessing, but if you are awaiting a response from me on the merits of the book or to further explode in fireworks of snark, I'm afraid you'll be waiting in vain.
Infinite Jest (I.J.) is the book that has made me a DFW fan.
This is a book so fractured in structure that it needs serious re-examination and puzzling over.
Big Important Books (B.I.B.) always have many resources available to help us sort things out.
I can't overstate what a depressing effect subsidized time has: YEAR OF THE DEPEND ADULT UNDERGARMENT.
We cheer for Don Gately, a drug addicted killer with a ferocious and jolly elan, who finds redemption through the crime and punishment method.This is a funny book.
This is a book that could do that.
But as I read on and the pages wore on, I began to lose interest and worse, every time a character or scene would capture me it was either too fleeting or it talked itself out of being interesting by dragging on for three or four times longer than it should have been.It became a chore to read.I am a character over plot person any day of the week.
None of them felt real and none of them got into my gut like those unforgettable characters inevitably do.
Characters that started out with promise either didn’t evolve or disappeared altogether.
But I don’t know what my soul weighs.
And a part of me trembles to think of what would happen if, instead of placing a best foot forward, it was requirement that a side of your soul took a promenade.
Perhaps thisisn’t an everyman type of problem; it’s a me-because-I’m-fucked-up-problem, and it is an indicatorof how bad off I am that I imagine that everyone feels this way.
And then in walks David Foster Wallace and I start to think that maybe if not everyone worries “Am I fucked up, and if so, how bad?” certainly he or his characters by extension do.
I have read online that there are universities in the U.S. offering courses in interpretation of David Foster Wallace literary opus, and I can actually see myself signing up and taking such a course, in order to be able to discuss and share my feelings about the people encountered in the novel.With the limited time at my disposal and with the word count limit here on Goodreads I believe it will be more useful that, instead of an exhaustive study of the novel, I make an attempt to simplify the equations and present them to potential readers in a way that makes this metafictional monster accesible and even desirable.
There don’t appear to be enough reviews of Infinite Jest on Goodreads so I thought I’d go ahead and write another one.Anyway, I kind of hated this book.
I hated the long, meandering passages that go nowhere and refuse to be ostensibly related to anything or be placed in any sort of clear context, much like this review.
First, it serves as a junction box for the theme of addiction and its relation, not just to drug and alcohol dependency in Infinite Jest, but also to the characters’ reactions to James Incandeza’s lethal Entertainment.
the world of ideas as they blow through the buttons of our coats, through the letters in our rooms, through the flowers in our tombs, blowing every time we move our teeth.
(Hah, see how far I got?)"I want to tell you" the voice on the phone said, "my head is filled with things to say""I don't mind," Hal said softly, "I could wait forever."I hope you all spotted that one!********There's a whole essay on the literature of endurance to be written, maybe someone has considered this somewhere, all about those famously-difficult-but-brilliant books and their readers.
Or maybe just loathe them because we have this obligation laid on us by ...
Do you resent being obliged to endure?
2015 Book I was Most Afraid to HateI read 11%. I can't do this....Emotionally I feel 10 % amused.90% frustrated bored and irritated.Sorry to my buds that love it but time is toooooo short to struggle through a very long book that I'm starting to resent.onwards and upwards :-)
But when my coping method of choice in unwinding after a thoroughly demoralizing day at work, the thing I compulsively relied on to comfortably pass time and the way I eased myself into unfamiliar social situations started to look awfully similar, I couldn’t help but acknowledge the unfortunate reality that I was on the precipice of becoming a career stoner, sacrificing the pursuits and interests and friendships that I value far more that leaving my mind behind for a while instead of facing my trubles head-on.For as easy and as shockingly non-disruptive my sudden cessation of a years-long habit was, you're goddamn right there were moments when my resolve almost caved -- not of weakness, really, but just because, meh, why not?
In all that time, the scene that has stuck with me the most is one where a character, attempting to go to a 12-step meeting for a drug addiction, goes astray and ends up at what is actually a "men's movement" meeting.
The third concerns a residential drug-rehab center near the tennis academy, one resident of which, Don Gately, could be considered the heart and soul of the book.These three storylines do connect in some ways, and all of them have the potential to be interesting.
After reading Infinite Jest in its entirety three times and reading favorite excerpts a multitude of times I finally feel like I have something to say about this magnificent work of art.In Infinite Jest, David Foster Wallace uses his elaborate gifts to create portraits of millennial America overdosing on drugs, entertainment, and self-gratification.
I have read everything David has written with the exception of The Pale King even though I purchased the book on its release date.
There are too many scenes to remember across this ten-book-sized book but coming straight from reading I can assert that Gately is rendered with explosive pain and cruelty during a pivotal fight scene, the incendiary flashbacks, and the drudgery-of-recovery scenes.The paraplegic assassins (Les Assassins des Fauteuils Rollents) are a wackier detour—like a cross between The Simpsons and like Ingmar Bergman—and for me, comprise the boring boggy bits where DFW wields banality as part of his grand stratagem for reinventing the novel.
I wouldn’t recommend this to anyone—no one apart from like lit-geeks will read novels this long.DFW wanted to write something sad.
