https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94318.Awareness
This is one of the more personally challenging books I've ever read. It made me think... hard. I wanted to sit down and argue with this guy. I didn't like how it was written. I didn't like what he said about people and selfishness and being and love, but I can't stop thinking about it. The more time passes, the more I think thiss asshole is on to something. The Pope must have thoght so too, since he EXCOMMUNICATED HIM FOR WRITING IT.
But hey, I have the key to take all of your stresses away!
Look closely in my eyes, though, because before you have the chance to ask me what that key is, and why I'm not explaining it properly to you, I'm going to slam a little cute story in your face that is going to distract you from the fact that I have actually just told you nothing at all".
Mostly, he keeps blurting out empty slogans like a Jesuit Tony Robbins: "Wake up!".
Here is a perfect example: "When my own mother got cancer, my sister said to me: "Tony, why did God allow this to happen to Mother?".
But this book is wishy-washy, bland tripe.
I picked up this book at a monastery in Northern California about 10 years ago and have kept it close ever since.De Mello, espousing no religious agenda, contends we've been brainwashed as to our typical ideas of love and happiness.
This untypical priest--his writings were denounced by the Pope--says our attachments, illusions, conditioning and general unawareness keep us anxiety-ridden.
Do you really see someone you're attached to?"And once we have the "awareness" he asks, "Can you imagine the relief when you don't have to impress anybody anymore?
My favorite spiritual book. Anthony de Mello helped me to understand, "I'm an ass, you're an ass". He tells us we're all sleeping, and he clobbers us over the head with a wake up call.
Awareness, Anthony de Mello's most popular book, is a beautiful bridge between Western and Eastern spiritual thought.
de Mello was a Roman Catholic priest who grew up in India, and his intimate familiarity with both traditions combined with a deep understanding of world mysticism provide seekers of a Western background (i.e., Christian) a thought provoking introduction to Eastern spiritual thought.
After his death in 1987, de Mello was censured by the Vatican's Defeneders of the Faith (headed at that time by Joseph Ratzinger, the current Pope).
Consequently, his books are not allowed to be sold in official Roman Catholic bookstores.
Tell them how miserably they are leading their lives, what scoundrels and idiots they have been.(Yes, people love to hear that.
A perfectly happy person would seldom pick-up a spiritually enlightening book.)Ask them tough questions.
Just ask the questions and say "nay" to the fragmented answers.
"Know Thyself", "Desire not, Suffer not." If you can fuse the ideas of different cultures/ belief systems, you become a rock-star.
Don't think about the past.", "Transform yourself if you want to see a change in the world", "Be aware of your surroundings", and you will see people nodding around.
We don't want to admit, or give up our attachments!
Better, how do I do this?
My biggest concern with this book is that he wants us to "give up" attachments like our family for example.
How are you to form close relationships with family and loved ones if you don't participate in the human connection?
What is love then really if you don't experience the feeling of withering inside when let's say you end a long relationship.
I understand this theory in regards to detaching oneself from material objects better than I do the detachment from people.
A book that starts with the idea that most people are asleep in this world got my attention.
The rest of a book is a devotional to a different point of view that spoke to me in a fundamental and amazing way.
I love the words awe, wonder, amazement, and curiosity.
If you like those words, check out his little meditation on the state of modern spirituality.
Bravo for a wonderful and exceptional book.
It has blessed my life and I am richer for having read it as it entered into my realm of consciousness!
I hated almost every minute of this book but had to read it for a class. de Mello combines Christian, Hindu, Buddhist and New Age worldviews mixed with a dose of radical individualism to create a spirituality devoid of any significant beliefs except for the fact that we don't need other people if we are aware of ourselves.Throughout the book there were sentences and sometimes paragraphs that I thought were insightful. But I continually found myself wishing that I was finished with this book. FINALLY, I am. Don't waste your time.
Considering the length of Awareness (184 pages), it’s taken me a long time to read what I have of it.
It’s taken a long time to read, partly because the book is a collection of meditations and, of course, the whole point is to take time to reflect on them.
The result, in this book, is a patchwork quilt of loosely stitched anecdotes, parables, and exhortations.I was eager to read something by de Mello because I’ve heard him described as a philosopher.
One of my all-time favorite authors, Teillard de Chardin, was a Jesuit philosopher, so I rather hoped to find penetrating analysis and eloquent language such as I remember from his writings.
Book that tought me that I am not my emotions, and to wake up, which I haven't really done, because I have too many snooze buttons.
That is what I meant earlier when I said to you, ‘If you’re suffering, you’re asleep’… suffering is a sign that you’re out of touch with the truth.” I am told that the Catholic Chuch, under the writings of future Pope Benedict, issued a notification questioning if de Mello went too far in his belief system.
De Mello wants to wear you down to the point where you could give it all up for a better reality.But the book seems to have an ephemeral quality to it.
it means to depend on another human being for my happiness.
Because if you do, the next thing you will be doing is demanding other people contribute to your happiness...
Perfect love casts out of fear where theres is love there are no demands, no expectations, no dependency.
What I really enjoy is not you; it's something that I discovered, a kind of symphony, a kind of orchestra that plays one melody in your presence, but when you depart, the orchestra doesn't stop.
when I meet someone else, it plays another melody, which is also very delightful.
At first, I almost despised the content, but as the pages went by, the ideas contained therein wormed their way into my consciousnesses and really made me think about the nature of reality and how I perceive myself in it.
The ideas are original, different and very difficult to accept.
The language and tone that the book is written in seem like condescending preaching from a moral high-ground...
If anything, this book is a refreshing change of perspective, especially for people living in western society.
Wow.I learnt to never cling to anything; for life in itself is a disappointment, and once we understand that, then we'll get the happiness we truly deserve.
I also learnt about happiness, and how it isn't a thrill.
It is an amazing feeling, and this entire world accepts us once we are happy.
No one wants an unhappy soul.Once again I learn the concepts of true love.
It doesn't have to breathe from others' bossoms, but we must strive to help everyone with a little ounce of love.
Love.
Happiness.
อานเลมนีแลวรูสึกเหมือนนังอยูในหองบรรยายเลกๆ กับบาทหลวงผูขามพนเขตแดนทางศาสนา เขานังบนอาสนะหรือไมกอยูหลังโพเดียมพูดตรงๆ แสกหนาคนฟังแรงๆ อยางไมตองกลัววาคนฟังจะชอบหรือไมชอบใดๆAwareness อธิบายประกอบเรืองเลามุงตรงไปทีการตระหนักรู หรือการมีสติกับปัจจุบัน สำเนียงจริงจัง จีมาทีใจคนอาน ไมบรรยายภาพกวางๆ รวมๆ หรือเปนหลักการ หนังสือใหประสบการณการตระหนักรูไดในหลายจังหวะอานแรกๆ อาจจะลงๆ กับทาที หรือวิธีการเชือมโยงระหวางคนอาน กับหนังสือ และสำเนียงการสือสาร ตองใชเวลาปรับตัวสักระยะ กวาจะทำใจรับมือลีลาของผูเขียนได
อ่านเล่มนี้แล้วรู้สึกเหมือนนั่งอยู่ในห้องบรรยายเล็กๆ กับบาทหลวงผู้ข้ามพ้นเขตแดนทางศาสนา เขานั่งบนอาสนะหรือไม่ก็อยู่หลังโพเดียมพูดตรงๆ แสกหน้าคนฟังแรงๆ อย่างไม่ต้องกลัวว่าคนฟังจะชอบหรือไม่ชอบใดๆAwareness อธิบายประกอบเรื่องเล่ามุ่งตรงไปที่การตระหนักรู้ หรือการมีสติกับปัจจุบัน สำเนียงจริงจัง จี้มาที่ใจคนอ่าน ไม่บรรยายภาพกว้างๆ รวมๆ หรือเป็นหลักการ หนังสือให้ประสบการณ์การตระหนักรู้ได้ในหลายจังหวะอ่านแรกๆ อาจจะลงๆ กับท่าที หรือวิธีการเชื่อมโยงระหว่างคนอ่าน กับหนังสือ และสำเนียงการสื่อสาร ต้องใช้เวลาปรับตัวสักระยะ กว่าจะทำใจรับมือลีลาของผู้เขียนได้ เมื่ออ่านไปถึงครึ่งเล่มจึงค่อยลื่นไหลไปกับเรื่งอเล่าและอรรถาธิบายเกี่ยวกับความตระหนักรู้ กลลวงจิตใจ และวิธีการเอาตัวรอดจากอุบายเหล่านั้นสำหรับคนที่สนใจเจริญสติ ผมคิดว่าเล่มนี้เหมาะควรแก่การศึกษา
I was craving more depth but I knew that it contradicted the book’s message which is that life is so simple, just drop your illusions and become “aware”.Some of his words:(*) If you ever let yourself feel good when people tell you that you’re O.K., you are preparing yourself to feel bad when they tell you you’re not good(*) One sign that you’re awakened is that you don’t give a damn about what’s going to happen in the next life(*) Loneliness is not cured by human company.
More comments to come when I finish...Some notes from the book (not my own comments here)--Eagle that was born and raised like a chicken, unaware of the heights to which it could soar.--"The nature of rain is the same, but it makes thorns grow in the marshes and flowers in the gardens."--Your ideas and mind determine your perception.
(indifference does not empower the thing)--An openness to truth is faith (open to listening for the new; not just what you think you're hearing or want to hear).--not in line with his beliefs on the 3 categories of charity...
Rasanya cukup mengena juga saat Anthony de Mello membahas tentang kebergantungan emosional kita, dan juga untuk lebih jujur dengan diri kita sendiri: apa sih yang sebetulnya kita rasakan saat menolong orang lain?
Kenapa kita terus melakukan itu?Kita jadi kecanduan secara emosional saat orang berterima kasih atas bantuan kita, dan ujung-ujungnya kita jadi dikendalikan oleh kecanduan itu.
Ini cukup menjelaskan juga sih kenapa banyak konselor pemula yang berusaha berpenampilan baik hati dan berusaha untuk tidak menyinggung kliennya.
Karena digerakkan oleh candu itu.Lebih nancep lagi, saat ditekankan bahwa orang yang merasa dirinya lebih baik dari orang lain karena melakukan kebaikan itu ya sebenarnya nggak lebih baik juga daripada orang yang tidak melakukan kebaikan.
After quite some time, I finished reading "Awareness" by Anthony de Mello.Although it is not long, and the language is not difficult, the book is not easy to read or like.
It will turn your world upside down, well, at least that's what I felt after reading it.
I think it will take me forever to process everything I read in the book, and, probably, forever would not be enough.
After all, what I came to agree with is that "...we don't want to wake up.
Waking up is unpleasant."Recommended to everyone ready to look at one's life from another angle.
This book is amazing.
So short, so simple, yet so powerful.
I was struck with its simple logic and its basic concepts and how hard these are for us to acknowledge.
It will put a mirror to your soul and challenge you to reassess everything you ever though you knew.This book puts into perspective how we make our own lives difficult and how we truly hold the power over true happiness.
This is a book that I will read again and again.
I highly recommend it to anyone that anyone that is in pursuit of happiness and inner-peace and is not yet "awake"!
This book is fun - not becuase it's light. It's because it feels like someone left a tape recorder on during a retreat and wrote down exactly what he said, so it feels like you are in the room with him, and his tone and charm come right off the page. But it's not simplistic - it's challenging. Best quote: "To see at last with a vision unclouded by fear or desire."
Am I shaken to my core? YesIs that okay? Most definitely
Mind. Blown. Amazing read. Some parts I was aware of and am currently living, and others I will implement into my life. Definitely a reread kind of a book, to fully absorb all of this great advice.
for all of the lost souls... you have arrived.
life changer
When I first started reading this book, I thought, “This guy is insane.” As I got further into his writings, I saw that he actually hit the nail on the head and I began thinking, “This guy is brilliant.” De Mello, a native of India, was a Jesuit priest and psychotherapist.
I had never thought about how we have all been conditioned from the day we are born to believe what everyone else believes and that we think we have to always strive to be the best.
I usually pass books on when I’ve finished them, but I’ll be holding on to this one so I can read it again.
Uh, bas je budjenje.
Mozda cak: Budjenje.
Melu se ne moze zameriti niti jedan imaginarni samar upucen citaocu, jer je taj samar mnogima tako potreban.m Licno, mislim da ima daleko uspavanijih od mene, ali i mene je ovo dodatno otreznilo.
Ako ste se nekad pitali kako izgleda "drzanje slova" o zivotu, onda cete dobiti jasnu sliku citajuci ovu knjigu.
Ako ste lenji, zelite da neko zivi umesto vas, onda preskocite.
Ali ako zelite da vam neko da skicu odakle poceti, onda cete u ovim stranicama naci vodic.
Melo ima dobru nameru.
It's all very basic and any simplistic points are buried underneath tons of rambling. And just when he starts to actually get to something meaningful, he moves on. I got absolutely nothing new out of this and think there are countless other authors who say the same exact things waaaaay better.
4.5 stars
