https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/708435.The_Storm_Book
This book has lovely artwork - looks like watercolors. Part of my biggest issue with the book is it had a beautiful to page drawing and then beautifully written 2 page story, no pictures, then another beautiful picture on 2 pages. Maybe its just me and I'm used to have words and pictures on every page.The kids weren't too into this one either. The blank white pages with words didn't keep their interest for long and they were fidgety. I think this is simply a good book and it didn't resonate with me as well as others.
If you are reaching for Charlotte Zolotow's The Storm Book (which brilliant descriptively evocative accompanying illustrations won a 1953 Caldecott Honour award for illustrator Margaret Bloy Graham) because you are wanting to read an adventure or severe weather disaster style of account, you will more than likely be rather disappointed (for The Storm Book is basically and simply just a sweetly gentle, tenderly descriptive depiction of what precisely and actually occurs during a standard but not overly severe thunderstorm in the country, in the city, in the mountains).
With a perfect (at least in my humble opinion) marriage of Charlotte Zolotow's informative but also caressingly soft narrative and Margaret Bloy Graham's always evocative, realistically imaginative and esoteric images, the meticulous details of rain, of thunder, lightning and finally a rainbow are featured, are represented quietly and calmly, without excitement, without exaggeration, utterly enchantingly, beautifully.
What a surprising treasure with such an unsuspecting title. While the text looks like narrative, it reads like poetry, and is so descriptive that it is worth reading without the illustrations. The paintings (watercolors?) are striking too and a great match for the text. The text and paintings alternate two-page spreads and this has irritated me in other books, but for this one the reading only built anticipation for the coming illustration, not unlike the anticipation building for the coming storm.
Nice, poetic text and Margaret Bloy Graham's awesome panoramic watercolors:A hot, listless summer day gives way to storms, as experienced by a little boy in the country, a man in the city, and old fisherman at the seashore, and a shepherd and his wife in the mountains.
What I loved most about this book was the author's imagery. She could paint a picture with words, and have it still be understandable to children. The way she described the scenery around the farm and the way the rain pummeled down from the sky was lovely. I enjoyed reading this book and would definitely recommend it. *Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Such lovely descriptions of a storm in the country, in the city and beyond. And the illustrations are divine!Ages: 5 - 9**Like my reviews? I also have hundreds of detailed reports that I offer too. These reports give a complete break-down of everything in the book, so you'll know just how clean it is or isn't. I also have Clean Guides (downloadable PDFs) which enable you to clean up your book before reading it! Visit my website!
Who makes a more spectacular showing in this book, beloved author Charlotte Zolotow or artist extraordinaire Margaret Bloy Graham?
Charlotte Zolotow's writing is wondrously energetic, finding every little pocket of glorious description to release in telling of a summer storm's awesome power, filling the sky with hardly a sign of warning and unleashing its pent-up deluge on the earth.
The heavy, humid air stirs little in the path of the coming storm, as a young boy sits in the field beyond his house watching the day go by.
An inquisitive little boy experiences a fierce storm in this evocatively descriptive picture book.
As the story opens, Zolotow's eloquent narrative depicts the intense heat and stillness of a summer day just prior to a storm, with heat "quivering up like a mist from the earth," limp, dusty flowers, and animals seeking relief from the rising temperatures.
As the storm rises, both author and illustrator build anticipation and a feeling of movement.
With each page the rhythm of the storm escalates, then comes to a quiet conclusion with nature's colorful display of the storm's end--a rainbow.
Several kids used the ideas from the read aloud in their own weather narratives where they had to explain what caused the weather event in their story.It is dated, so I have to check with the science teachers to see what I need to point out as history, probably in the technology of weather prediction section.Since the story is about the storm that kept the Yankees from their first game of the year in April,____ (the book is at school) it kept some kids paying attention who did not want to know about air masses, cold fronts, storms, and plains farmers as they dealt with the storm.
A young boy learns about thunder, lightning and rainbows in this book about a sudden summer storm.
The story also includes the perspectives of a city dweller, a fisherman, and a young couple with a baby.
The most interesting thing about this book is that the text and illustrations never appear on the same page.
The only drawback is that, at times, the very broad pictures lose the little details of Zolotow’s text that young readers will undoubtedly want to find.
(I was pleased to find the sandpiper on the page with the fisherman, though!)
In this book a boy discovers what a rainbow is after a storm.
The author writes what a storm looks like from the city, seashore, and the country.I gave this book 5 stars for it's description of a storm from the different perspectives!
I think this is great for students who have never been to the beach or to a big city to see what it is like out in the country, or vise versa.
This book is also a Caldecott Honor book for it's illustrations.I would use this book to teach about where rainbows come from and how it happens after a storm.
This story has beautiful language..."In the mountains the rain comes down like a waterfall. Each crash of thunder sounds as though the rocks of the mountains were splitting apart, but each flash of lightning shows them solid and quiet against the sky." The story just describes a storm, and it is not a fast paced story...but the language was very descriptive. My children loved the sound effects of the storm throughout the book. The illustrations were detailed and matched the descriptive language in the text.
Would have been more enjoyable for the young ones if the pictures were on the same pages as the reading. Throughout the entire book, they have to wait for two pages of reading before turning for the accompanying picture.
Lyrical text mixed with beautiful illustrations. Just a nice story.
Really beautiful prose and lovely illustrations.
Excellent read aloud choice for that night you simply cannot read Goodnight Moon again.
There is a storm. Various people experience it. Men (sailors, shepherds) bravely struggle with the storm; women watch the storm from safe inside while taking care of children. Storms are wet.
The art is very pretty, but personally, I didn't like the book. First, I didn't like the way it was set up. Text on both pages, no pictures, and then two pages of a whole illustration with no text, and so on. Second, I didn't really find the story that interesting. I can see why it won a medal, the writing is good, but the story to me was a bit boring. Maybe I found it boring because I read this when I was super tired, but nonetheless, I didn't enjoy this book as I thought I would.
Lyrical prose precedes pleasant illustrations for each bit of the story (read, then turn page for picture). I really appreciated the prose and layout of the story, but my 9 year companion reviewer wasn’t impressed.
Old Caldecott Honor book. The art is pretty good, but the writing is lame. Even the font seems old and tired. A lot of words for a picture book. Definitely feels old.
• 1953 Caldecott Honor Book •This is a pretty quiet book that might appeal to some, but I just found the text really dry. It did help me feel asleep though! Ha I liked the illustrations but wish the text and illustrations were together - they’re on separate pages in the book, which I think is part of why I didn’t like it. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
Type of Book: picture bookLiterary genre: realistic fictionAwards: Caldecott Honor (1953)Summary: The book starts out on a hot, summer day with the sun shining and a beautiful blue sky and a boy watching and waiting.
The wind blows and the rain comes and then just as suddenly as it started it stops and out comes the rainbow.Critique: The story tells of a day when a sudden storm blew in and just as suddenly leaves.
1953 Caldecott HonorFavorite illustration: The opening of the book before the storm even starts when the boy is stretched out in the field.Favorite line: "Shooting through the sky like a streak of starlight comes a flash so beautiful, so fast, that the boy barely has time to see the flowers straining into the storm wind."Kid-appeal: I think kids will either be in the "like it" or "don't like it" camp.
The illustrations are rendered on to two pages with no text.
All the text that describes that image is on the page before.
Writing teachers may want to check this out as a fine example of descriptive text in a picture book.
Caldecott Honor Bookby Charlotte ZolotowPicture bookAges 3-7Although the pictures throughout the book are attractive, I FEEL that this is a book that was made in 1989.
It just feels a bit 'dated,' to state the obvious.
("Queen Anne's lace...rambler roses...") I was also surprised that, being a book that was recommended for kids as young as 3, there was actually so much writing!
Still, a sweet enough book partly about a child commenting to his mother about the storm coming in and the different sounds that people experience.
Kindergarten might use this book to teach about different kinds of weather, specifically storms.
In the fiction, picture book The Storm Book Zolotow gives us a day in the country when everything is hot and still and suddenly a storm hits.
Using onomatopoeia and other figurative language, she shows us that every storm runs out of rain and good things can happen from crazy weather.
A small boy is looking the landscape over on a hot summer's day when the first indications of a storm appear.
He runs home and in his mother's understanding company experiences his first thunder storm.
The Storm Book by Charlotte Zolotow:The author brings together the character and impact of nature, and the curiosity of a child watching the effects of a storm unfold and display itself upon human living spaces.
The story is laid out in a progressive format, similar to that of a good song, that appears to follow storm through its stages from start to finish, that finally ends with the display of the colors of the rainbow!At the end, the story contrast the dry and hot start of the scenes at the beginning of the story, with the excitement and renewed life the comes after the storm.
I like the double-page illustrations in the book, that provide opportunity for fuller display of connecting visuals in the story.
Summary:This is a great descriptive children's book of the effect of a thunderstorm on different areas (farm, city, etc.) Grade: PreK-3 Use in the classroom: This would be a great book to have students connect to prior knowledge and activate their schema. Have students think about what they know about storms as they read the book. Explain that good readers make connections between what they already know and new information they read. Remind students that thinking about what they already know about the topic of the book will help them understand what they read.
A chronicle of a storm and all its components, and what it looks like over land and water. This almost reads like 2 different books. The text apears in 2 page spreads and is followed by a 2 page spread of illustrations. It challenges the reader to imagine the scene before the illustrator's vision is given to them on the folowing 2 pages. The wordless pictures could stand alone and tell a wordless tale of the evolution of a rainstorm. Text is decriptive and poetic. Must read/see.
My kids were mesmerized by this story. I didn't think the long pages filled with text only would hold my littlest ones but they didn't move a muscle and listened through it all. Every other page has a full page picture layout and then the next page is text only. They all agreed that it was a very cozy book.
A storm sweeps over the country, city, sea, and mountains as people watch in wonder.Zolotow's writing is certainly lyrical and will help readers be able to mentally picture the storm, but some of the science part of this (particularly the cause of thunder) is not accurate. The illustrations have a certain antique charm. Read it for the entertainment not the science.
