https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239923.My_Name_is_Legion
Zelazny did his damned to avoid using the word "robot", but this is the exact description of the creation playing the main role in this one.
A highly intelligent deep space exploration robot was trained by four people (basically it amounted to it creating copies of their brains).
Deep space exploration ready meant it was practically indestructible, so it was up to the nameless guy to stop it.The first surprise that came to me during the reading and stayed through the whole book was that it was still very much relevant, more than 40 years after its publication.
The story itself isn't fantastic but I'm a big fan of the ideas presented within, both the creation of artificial islands (didn't Stephenson do that in The Diamond Age?) and the man who doesn't officially exist.Kjawlll'kje'k'koothai'lll'kjr'k: Two men are dead and it looks as if a dolphin is to blame.
Our nameless hero begins poking around, leading him into a plot involving adultery, diamonds, and questions about dolphins and their culture...I didn't enjoy the second story as much as the first but it was still good.
I get the impression that Zelazny was wondering about some things, kind of thinking out loud.In the first story, "Rumoko", we meet the head programmer of the world bank database.
He decided that the system he labored on so long, a database that contains every fact about every person on Earth, might not be such a good thing, so he drops out of the system & becomes a wandering troubleshooter.
A deep space exploration robot is more intelligent than its creators counted on.All in all, not his favorite work of mine, but a good read.
A marvelous book. Roger Zelazny's 3 tales written some 20 years apart featuring the same character. All 3 are enjoyable adventure yarns. The first is only that, the second, written years later adds much more interesting speculation and emotional depth, the last, again written years later, is so good that the first page makes you lean back in your chair and exhale mightily and the theme is worthy of the wonderful style--a yarn truly worthy of its Hugo. Rarely does one get the chance to see the growth of a writer demonstrated so clearly.
Three stars is a gift. Better than most Zelazny, which isn't saying much. "Home is the Hangman" is the only novella of the three that is worth reading.Despite writing this forty years ago, Zelazny avoided the obvious technology and historical problems.Hard to believe the Brothers Hidebrandt did that insipid cover art.
Tenemos, por tanto, una obra con forma de novela de acción y aventuras, pero inconfundiblemente de ciencia ficción por su temática.
Tiene un toque de fantasía en su estilo y un importante trasfondo de reflexión filosófica, que tal vez nos pueda pasar desapercibida a algunos lectores en medio de las conspiraciones y misiones de nuestro endurecido protagonista.
Es una obra entretenida en la que apenas tienes un momento de descanso, pues la tensión es casi constante, si bien puede resultar un poco complicada de seguir.
Esto se debe sobre todo a la forma de narrar, que recuerda al fluir del pensamiento siendo un tanto caótica.
* The Eve of RUMOKO - three stars * Kjwalll'kje'koothai'lll'kje'k - four stars * Home Is the Hangman - five stars The stories revolve around a mercenary secret agent that has erased his identity and makes a living doing dangerous investigative jobs using fake names.
First, creating artificial land by having magma bubble up from the Ocean bottom is most likely counter productive since the magma below the Ocean surface is likely to push away enough water to reduce the coast line land area in excess of the tiny land you gain from the new Islands.
A surprisingly engaging trilogy.The prose was a little choppy at times, and sometimes a bit disconnected, but not too bad. Reminds me a bit of steven king.
Originariamente pubblicati come tre racconti separati dello stesso personaggio, qui vengono raccolti come se fossero un romanzo. Fantascienza in parte datata e in parte invece attualissima (telepresenza) resta una lettura più che gradevole.
You have one amazing story, one average story, and one that is best to be swept underneath the carpet and never heard from again.
Seriously, my eyes glossed over several times and I was reading during the day with what I thought was good sleep.
Actually any story that involves dolphins is probably average at best.
The ending is well thought out and it's one of the best short stories I have ever read.
It probably is the best "novella" length story I have ever read.
I have been in the mood to re read Roger Zelazny books lately.
His character is able to completely wipe out any record of his existence from the new "world data base" that he was involved with creating and programming.
This book has three related stories or missions.
All are superb...The first is "The Eve of RUMOKO" about a plan to use nuclear explosives to create artificial islands but there is a saboteur on the project that he has been hired to identify and stop.
Our hero must find the Hangman and stop it with time running out.
I really didn’t get into “My Name is Legion”.
There are three stories in total, and the premises actually sound cool enough: stopping sabotage, clearing the name of dolphins unrightfully accused of a crime, saving people from a robot from outer space.
But I simply didn’t like Zelazny’s writing.
I can’t put my finger on it.
I have lots of things to think about, now.”“All right.”“You’re a dumb broad.”“I don’t think so.”“Well, we’ll see.”...By the time I reached the 3rd Frankensteinesque story, which I later found received an Hugo, I was half skimming through it.
Unfair as it may be, I can’t give this more than one star.
Tre racconti con protagonista il tecno-mercenario senza fissa identità. Non dei grandi racconti, ma gradevoli. Ci si interroga su cosa sia la persona, cosa ci renda ciò che siamo e cosa sia l'intelligenza e tutti i soliti interrogativi della fantascienza, dagli anni sessante del novecento in poi.Il protagonista è poco credibile, ma penso sia la parte meno importante dei racconti :)
Het las als een ineen geflanste reeks verhaaltjes.
An excellent selection of short stories by one of my favorite writers. Great reading if you need something for short periods of time. Very recommended
Los párrafos dedicados a explorar y desarrollar al personaje, en cambio, son densos y alambicados, como si el autor hubiera sucumbido al prurito de dotar de excesiva “entidad” a su personaje, al punto de sacrificar la acción y la tensión necesarias para el desarrollo de un buen relato de aventuras.En cambio, el tercer cuento, “El regreso del Verdugo”, mantiene una frescura que justifica el tedio de los anteriores.
One of my favorite books, Good in hard copy and good in this audiobook.
Tiku līdz otrā (no trim) stāsta vidum un tālāk vairs netiku. Garlaicīga. Varbūt vienkārši jau pārāk novecojusi. Lasīju Audioformātā.
A bit dated now, especially the IT stuff, but the titular story always a classic.
Delfines asesinos y peleas cuerpo a cuerpo con robots... ::rolls eyes::
A collection of stories with a common protagonist. The stories are all good, but I was disappointed that they didn't add up to more.
In the first section, "The Eve of RUMOKO," we meet "Albert Schweitzer." A man who was originally part of the global computer effort to enter every piece of data about every single person in the world--theoretically, a useful thing, because if all your health records were available at any time to any doctor then the chances of saving your life go up, right?
His first assignment in the book is to find out who's trying to sabotage the RUMOKO project--designed to create a new island and more space for the every-increasing human population--and stop them.
This is a collection of three novellas that combine the science fiction and mystery/thriller genres similar to the Gil Hamilton stories by Larry Niven. Zelazny's work hasn't aged as well here, but his style and characters are still delightful. The first story is the weakest of the trio, and the third, Home in the Hangman, is an award winning classic. (Everyone should attempt to pronounce the title of the second story in the dolphin!) Zelazny was at the top in his time.
Три криминални истории, писани в период от 20 години с един общ герой с неизвестно име.Успял да се заличи сам от общата база данни и пътуващ през света, без да хвърля сянка.
Това, което изглежда добро за част от човечеството, не е ли лошо за също толкова голяма част от него?2.
Дали притежаващият интелект "Палач" не се е върнал на земята, за да накаже "възпитателите" си за грешка в миналото?Този сборник от три разказчета на Зелазни се приближава най-много от цялото му творчество до това, което аз скептично наричам "научна фантастика".
Което също трябва да ви говори нещо.Пет звездички и е от задължителните.Разкошен превод на Комата.Т'ва е :)
Interesting, but not as enjoyable as his Amber series
This book is hard to classify but is intensely interesting in a sort of 'odd-sci-fi that is strangely prescient' sort of way.
The Story is set in a 'future' where the worlds Data-banks have been linked to create a central repository of knowledge(sound familiar?) in which peoples Data exist and can be looked up.
Each of the Three stories deals with certain sci-fi elements; Robotics, Questions of Sentience, the POssibility of creating artificial island and share a somewhat common theme of human hubris.

It's rather amazing to me that after the delight that Creatures of Light and Darkness was in terms of genuine quality, a book that you finish for the first time with the anticipation of returning to it, knowing that you'll get more and more from it each time you read it, that Zelazny can sort of turn a knob and write a nice straight little story.
Or rather three stories, because I'm sure this is some kind of compilation of stories published elsewhere that all starred the same character, a man outside the system that monitors the world, working for a detective agency.So it's fun, the stories are well crafted, there's a robot on the cover, what more does a girl want?(The robot is relevant to the contents even!
Found this in a used book store the other day.
When I was in college I had gone through the whole Zelazny opus, and I was wondering if it would still held my interest.The book is a bit dated now, but it did indeed hold my interest, particularly his musings about the Central Data Bank, and how such centralization resulted in "massive changes in the order of human existence.
Not all of these changes, I am now certain," quoth Zelazny's main character, "were for the better.""I have never considered anything to be wholly good or wholly evil," the hero continues, but ultimately he decides on the latter, and checks out of the system, to live precariously as someone who does not really exist.
I really like Zelazny's Amber series and love sci-fi, so I thought this book of short stories would be a home run.
Nope.
Why did it fail me?The technology prescience is exceptionally low.
Classic sci-fi authors get some slack for being half a century removed from today's technology, but Zelazny is more technologically off-base here in 1981 than many books written in the 50's.About halfway through the book Zelazny latches on to the word "presently" and uses it in every other sentence thereafter.
Clark does this too--maybe he's trying to keep up his street cred?The stories aren't completely without merit.
