https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815715.Start_Where_You_Are
If you want to know about these practices, I recommend the book.
The 59 lojong slogans intend to free you from conditioned reactions that bring suffering to you and others.Tonglen is a meditation practice to make you aware of your own and others sufferings and joys and to absorb the sufferings and share the joys.I whole-heartedly recommend this book to the reader who already knows some basic of Buddhism and is serious about progressing on the bodhisattva path.
You don't have to be a Buddhist to appreciate the common sense philosophy in this beautiful book--I found it life-changing. If you want to better live in the present, feel your emotions fully without letting them overwhelm you, and expand your compassion and loving kindness for others, this book is a comforting place to start.
Reading this book is what made me say "hey, this Buddhism thing makes a whole lot of sense to me". Pema is always down to earth and sometimes earthy in her presentation of the ideas and how they relate to our lives. She approaches every subject with compassion and makes you really feel like she understands your struggles and issues because she has gone through them, and because she is still going through them. She lets you know that while the difficulties and the issues will always be there, you can change your relationship to them and work with them.
While I would be more inclined to recommend When Things Fall Apart to someone who's completely new to these concepts, this was of course still extremely valuable, and funnier than the others of hers I've read.
A lot of insights into Buddhist teachings, but while they are clearly simplified, they still may be a bit over-our-heads for most readers who don't have any previous experience in the topic.She explains that we all armor our hearts, our "soft spots" instinctively and that to live well, we have to open that door to others, and that it is one of the most frightening things we will ever do, and that we must do it, like everything we do within ourselves, gently.I most enjoyed her talks on balance, and how compassionate and encouraging the book urges you to be, especially to yourself.
First let me start by saying that I really love reading some Pema wisdom.
This woman knows how to speak ina way that engages your attention.About half of this book, or a little more, was brilliant and useful to me.
it doesn't have much at all.to do with the idea that you could pick up this book and benefit from it whether you had read 0 or 100 Buddhist texts.With that in mind...
I benefited a lot from the ideas I understood, and I wished she would've explained more about some of the other ones.
Still, I like her style and plan to read some other books my her.
I've since bought two other of her books, as I've learned so much from this one.While she does talk of some Buddhist principle and practices, it's relatively light and easy to follow.
She uses 59 proverbs of lojong (a Buddhist mind-training program) as the basis of dealing with these issues.
(Even those who frustrate you can teach you a lesson.)-Always maintain only a joyful mind.-Don’t talk about injured limbs (Don’t take pleasure contemplating others defects.)-Don’t ponder others (Don’t take pleasure contemplating others weaknesses.)-Abandon any hope of fruition.
So simple, yet so often overlooked in life.)This book will definitely get a second read.
This book has a few REALLY great statements, such as:"We work on ourselves in order to help others, but also we help others in order to work on ourselves." Oh, wait a second, that's the only one.
A major part of her instruction is to teach the reader how to work with 'slogans'.
I find these extremely annoying, especially when they are not in a meaningful context for me and she begins every single paragraph with "Another slogan says..."I picked up the book b/c she is said to frame her teachings for the western mind.
Pema Chodron is my hero. She writes about living according to Buddhist doctrine so simply and clearly, so attuned to the difficulties of being a human being on the planet, that she makes enlightenment appear as it really is: a doable process, not an untouchable goal. This book is especially interesting for its treatment of the lojong "slogans" - little kernals of Buddhist teachings like "Abandon any hope of fruition" - and style of meditation practice that encourages compassion.
I learned to dig deep into myself, both the parts I like and the parts I don't like, know them and live with them gracefully. I feel like a new, positive, confident person able to say and do what comes from my genuine self, my genuine open-hearted desires. A must read for anyone feeling lost or troubled.
This book was a gift when I began my Buddhist practice, and I can't recommend it enough. Being an American, Pema Chödrön's writing is extremely approachable for other western readers.
Open the curtains and experience the world that is out there with an open mind and heart.-The five strengths (heart instructions on how to live or die): (1) Determination: the determination to use every struggle you face as an opportunity to open your heart, (2) Familiarization: Familiarization with Dharma, the realization that all teachings of Dharma are about yourself, about how to cook yourself, how to soften the toughest pieces of meat, (3) Seed of Virtue: The seed is already in you, its the inherent Budha nature, relax into it but don't search for it because searching for happiness only prevents us from finding it, (4) Reproach: See neurosis as neurosis, recognize your own personal brand of insanity and then instead of beating yourself up become your own teacher and teach yourself Dharma in your own words, (5) Aspiration: You always aspire for enlightenment, aspiration cuts through negativity, prevents you from beating yourself up and empowers you to start where you are.-Lighten up, its not a big deal: We often work ourselves up to neurosis by blowing things up in our minds.
Pema Chodron is a Mahayana Buddhist (as opposed to a Theravada Buddhist), so this book definitely sticks to the Mahayana belief system in vocabulary and suggestions for practice.I think the most important messages in this book aren't the slogans per se, but rather the underlying message of self-love and self-acceptance.
The catch, really, is that to change yourself into a compassionate, joyful person, you first have to accept yourself right now, as a potentially angry, grumpy old fart.
Not "I'll accept myself once I'm nicer" but "even though I'm a grumpy old fart, I accept myself." After you do that, you can start to change.
"I think that all of us are like eagles who have forgotten we know how to fly." When I read Pema Chödrön's books, I feel I'm looking at long-long instructions for how to make the most of life, how to realize our human potential, how to get along with each other and with everything.
She is a genius of a teacher, able to take the most arcane texts and ideas and make them accessible to me.
Even better, she gives me the confidence to try, and fail, and try again.
I may never attain what she has attained, but I can take a step.
I would have had a difficult time with this book if I had not been meditating and reading up on the subject for a while. It seems to have been derived from a series of talks on mind training "lojong", a certain teaching that incorporates slogans to reflect upon. Despite the jargon, she keeps up a friendly, chatty tone while presenting intense ideas about how to approach the experience of having a brain with thoughts and emotions. It's given me some new tools to work with. Thanks, Pema!
Chodron gives the reader an extraordinary amount of insight into buddhist practice in simple terms. Her teaching is framed around 59 Buddhist maxims... and looks at them from a western standpoint, without being an idiot. Quite a feat! Anyway, a great book for anyone curious about buddhism.
The meditation practices detailed in the book were a bit beyond me. However, the underlying messages to get in touch with our emotions, to be grateful, and to live in the now were very powerful to me.
This book is subtitled "a guide to compassionate living," that basically says it all. It is a guide to the Buddhist teachings of opening the heart and mind through tonglen meditation and lojong slogans. All her writings are clear and productive reads.
Pema is always a wonderful, down to earth mindfulness teacher. Excellent reminders to be curious when we feel ourselves resisting and struggling. Thorough introduction to tonglen practice - breathe in the suffering, breathe out a sense of delight, openness.
A book that helps remind me that no matter how far I've come, I'm not too far from where I want to be.
Also recommended by my doctor to help guide in the rebuilding process of life after letting everything fall apart.
this is the coolest book of spiritual advice...not pushy advice...just gentle suggestions that made so much sense to me. life changer fo sho
avail Chico
This book was deep. I took a long thoughtful read through that coincided with a mindfulness-based stress reduction program. I found much that I was taught in class was mirrored in Pema's book - a helpful synchronicity. There are times when Buddhism books can be poetic and indirect and ultimately frustrating. There are times when these books are intellectually or even emotionally stimulating but in the end don't stick. At least that's been my experience. Pema's book, however, offered some real-world, practical advice and insight. Definitely worth the read.
Fantastic, awe-inspiring and truly humbling This book forced u to accept those parts of urself which u have been successful hiding for a long time. The words are so simple yet so profound. The practices seem so easy but takes enomorous will power to achieve. Truly mesmerizing. It is like a mirror which tries to show u, your real zelf
This book definitely requires a re-read, as do all of Pema's books. I find some of the slogans difficult to understand, having had no experience in Buddhism. But that doesn't take away the wisdom inherent in this book. I take her advice to help me understand not just other's actions but my own as well.
Some excellent and interesting advice for meditation and general interaction.
My favorite part, and the heart of the book, is the early description of tonglen.
Specifically I like the exercise of taking the object of desire/anger/frustration/etc., thinking about the emotions it produces, and then considering those emotions in a vacuum - how they exist in you apart from the actual object.
An interesting and challenging exercise.
I also thought Chodron had some good pointers for regular mindfulness practices.
I got bored and tripped up with the later sections of the book.
Mindfulness in Plain English remains my favorite go-to guide.
I'm not sure why I decided to start with this one; perhaps because it has "start" in the title?Up until this point, I've only read one or two books that were very grounded in Buddhism.
This book is focused on 50-something Buddhist phrases.
As I was nearing the end I caught myself thinking about how someone would memorize the phrases, then in the last chapter she talks about how you don't have to do that.
I think at some point she phrases as just "dropping it." She also reiterates how the pain we may feel at any given time is being felt by many across the world.
Straightforward and simple, I really enjoy Ani Pema's style of explaining Buddhism's concepts and practices. This book is organized in a "daily-lesson" format but a reader doesn't have to follow the book from front to back to glean its contents. There is an emphasis on logong slogans and plenty of insights both into Pema's practice and those along the way she has helped.
This book is just so good. It is written very simply and just makes so much sense. No matter where you are at in life, this book as something for you. I would recommend this, or any book, by Pema Chodron. She is way cool.
