https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571406.The_Spirit_of_St_Louis
Astonishingly vivid and well written. I remember going to bed one night while I was reading it and feeling horribly guilty that I could sleep when I had left Lindbergh struggling to stay awake over the Atlantic. When my mother called, expecting to hear about my week, the first thing I said was "Lindbergh landed in Paris!"
I’ve recently tried to fly Charles Lindberg’s Spirit of Saint Louis on a flight simulator and crashed and burned several times.
Not only did Lindberg make history with his trans-Atlantic flight, but set a record prior to that in just getting to his launch point on Long Island, by flying cross country from California to Saint Louis and on to Roosevelt Field.
What also is not generally known, in its career, Spirit of Saint Louis made at least 174 flights totaling nearly 490 hours, most of that after the Paris flight.For 501 pages, Lindberg puts the reader in the cockpit right beside him.
I think the best section of the book for me was his fight to stay awake---he was awake for about 63 hours by the time he landed in Paris.
He would fall asleep with his eyes open, and experience every sensation of being asleep, and then awakened again, for many, many hours of his flight.
It's amazing that the book is around 500 pages long, to describe the planning and flight of just one flight, but I never got bored.
I ought to be done in 18 installments, depending on how much of Lindbergh's voluminous appendices I opt to include in the final episode (or two).Enjoy a terrific story by the man who lived it!
It would have saved weight and fuel, but he had determined that he would land.And he did.Let’s put aside Lindbergh’s Nazi tendencies after this historic flight; as a teen reading this those many years ago, I knew nothing of that.
My father told me about it, after I’d read this book of course, because within this adventure story are powerful lessons.Tenacity.
a real "don't tell your mom" moment), and flown with him, there were so many lessons on flying in this book.
Checklists, navigation, fuel/weight, trusting your instruments, etc.
As mentioned earlier, this book offers a much bigger life lesson.
Lindbergh, Jr. A native of my state and a pioneer of flight, he shared my values of being soft-spoken, reticent, and modest about his accomplishments.
I read, re-read, and eventually inherited my grandmother's copy of "We", his confused and idealized life story, and loved every word.Once I learned more about him, the second family in Germany and the pro-Nazi, anti-Semitic statements soured me on Lindbergh worship.
Written before his anti-Semitic views got him in trouble, before his flirtation with Germany, and before his marriage and abduction of his son, "Spirit" reflects his pure love of flight, his conviction that air travel would be the future of America, and his boundless optimism.
Especially if you are from St. Louis, you will learn a lot about how this city was very much involved in the early history of aviation.
The book is a gripping read almost from the beginning as Lindbergh describes his early interest and pursuit of flying.
I was surprised to learn how directly involved Lindbergh was in the design of the plane itself.
Things such as the configuration and stability (Lindbergh made the plane unstable so that it would help him stay awake).
This book is an excellent documentation of aviation history and probably required reading for people who grew up in St. Louis!

Fascinating. The grapes on this guy...
This is the autobiographical story of a man, a machine, and a dream.
It is also virtually the aviator's "bible" for flying enthusiasts.The Man: Charles A.
Lindbergh, who had a passion for flying and a dream to complete a long-distance flight to win fame and fortune and to prove to the world that aviation had finally come of age.
Gen. Robert Lee Scott, Jr., "Wings of Madness" [Aviation Pioneer Alberto Santos-Dumont:] by Paul Hoffman, "Stranger to the Ground" [Flying Early Jet Fighters with the National Guard:] by Richard Bach, and "Dr. Eckener's Dream Machine" [The Graf Zeppelin's 'round-the-world flight in 1929:] by Douglas Bottinger.
This is Lindbergh's first person narrative of the preparation for and accomplishment of his solo flight across the Atlantic in 1927, a singularly significant event in the early days of aviation.I did not realize Lindbergh's quality as a writer - no ghost writer on this. His grammar and constructions are flawless and he really puts the reader with him in the tiny cockpit.A must read for any fan of historical narrative.
Really interesting read. Although some of his many anecdotes were quite readable, especially in relation to his aviation history, they did grow tiresome and it broke the tension of Lindburgh's otherwise fascinating tale. Still highly recommended!
Whatever his politics, Charles Lindbergh was an incredible pilot. What a voyage.
The book is written as though we are in Lindbergh's head listening to his thoughts, as he gets the idea to fly from New York to Paris, finds financial backing, oversees the building of the plane, flies across the country to New York to wait for favorable weather conditions, then during the 33 hr flight.
What really struck me is that at every moment he was in the air, he was scanning to see what would be the best place to land in a crash.
One of the planes at the show was a replica of the Spirit of St. Louis and there was the constant buzz of aircraft in the background.
He was adamant about doing his flight in a single engine airplane while pretty much all of the other aviators wanted to use machines with multiple engines.
Seriously though, it was pretty awesome what a reception he got when he arrived; despite the souvenir hunters messing his airplane up a bit.7) If you're changing history, you don't need a visa to go to France.8) Don't wait for bureaucracy to take its sweet time if you're going to make history.
Charles Lindbergh's rather spectacular history of his quest to become the first pilot to cross the Atlantic Ocean non-stop.Filled with facts and insight, Lindbergh wrote and edited this carefully over many years--even pointing out in the author's notes that he and his wife, Anne Morrow Lindbergh, pored over each sentence to assure proper grammar and punctuation.
Lindbergh chops off the post-flight so neatly that to me it's like hearing a quickly fading roar.On a side note, Lindbergh thanks his wife, Anne Morrow Lindbergh--herself an accomplished and successful writer--for her contribution to the book, writing that she'll never know how much she lent to the manuscript.
I slowly read the book, concentrating on each part of the story of Charles Lindbergh's decision to fly nonstop transatlantic as nobody had done before.
The story of choosing an airfield, selecting a plane, the details to work out, route and destination.
I was interested in his story and happy that it turned out I had read the book.
I was enamoured with the airport and the spirit of flight that exists in St. Louis, and was thrilled to be a part of it in the end.
The Spirit of St. Louis is an early part of the greatness that has existed in this country in flight.
what an admirable chance and got guts to achieve it...When it comes to the book, everything is detailed part by part, sec by sec.
It is seemed that Lindbergh is a vigorous man when it comes to his job.
Maybe you made a mistake not to carry one.''"I couldn't take a sight and fly the plane at the same time.
""Well, I took the advice of experts.
No one shouldn't miss the chance to read and feel his mind flying all along the Atlantic.." As I grew older, I learned that danger was a part of life not always to be shunned.
What amazing magic is carried in an airplane's wings -- New York at breakfast; Nova Scotia at lunch.
How can breakfast-to-lunch in time equal New York-to-Nova Scotia in distance?
If I'd watch fresh-sown wheat spring to a harvest since the dawn, it would hardly be stranger than this experience."The Twenty-Eighth Hour...(on sight of Ireland after Atlantic crossing)"One senses only through change, appreciates only after absence.
For twenty-five years I've lived on it, and yet not seen it till this moment.
I know how the dead would feel to live again.
A book like no other.
But a large section of it was almost unreadable for me.Yes, I've never encountered a book like this.
I never do this, but it got so slow that I jumped ahead to the ending.Having said all of the above, THE BOOK IS STILL COMPLETELY WORTH THE TIME AND MONEY, BELIEVE ME!!
But be prepared for the slow section (and consider giving yourself permission to jump ahead).
Perhaps aviation enthusiasts would appreciate that section more than I could.
Amazing I made it to 49 and never read this book.
Also amazing that Lindbergh was such a good writer.
He strives to be complete and accurate in the books, just as he did in preparation and execution of his solo flight to Paris.
As Lindbergh admits, he was glad he waited 25 years to write the book as he would not have been as forthcoming on his mistakes or as transparent about the dangers of early aviation had he written it in his youth.
And we can be glad he apparently honed his writing chops in those 25 years as well.
I was really liking this biographical novel about Charles Lindbergh's first transatlantic flight right up until Lindbergh started flying across the ocean.
But, once Lindbergh started the big flight, this book just seemed to go on and on about whatever he could think of while trying to keep himself awake on this 33 hour flight.
However, I loved the last chapter, after he landed, where he explained how crazy and excited the entire world was over this amazing flight.
I could have skipped about 300 pages and still gotten plenty out of this book.
For a man who describes himself as uninterested in spelling and grammar, Charles Lindbergh has written a wonderful book, completely worthy of a Pulitzer Prize.
Lindbergh's book "The Spirit of St. Louis" follows his successful effort to become the first person to make a trans-Atlantic flight.
The story is told in great detail from the birth and of an idea to the construction of his airplane to an hour by hour account of his flight.
Some of the tale gets bogged down a bit as he reminisces during the huge amount of downtown in the flight but overall this is a great account.


I admired Lindbergh's excellent use of language. I felt like I was really with him on this perilous journey from New York to Paris. His sentences are short but descriptive. There is a strong aesthetic perspective offered in his views of what he sees, hears and feels. He places the reader squarely into the adventure. I don't usually read a book like this within a week or so, but I did this time because it was difficult to leave Lindbergh and his refreshing comments about the world and about the future of aviation.
Who knew that Charles Lindbergh was ascapable a writer as he was a pilot? This account of his epic transatlantic flight includes some of his experiences flying the mail in the Midwest and preparations for his flight to Paris. Through it we come to understand Lindbergh's rather analytical personality - he definitely has the right attributes to be a great pilot - and this focused, scientific character did not always serve him well through his life. This is a magnificent book about his transatlantic flight, though and it is more entertaining and engaging than one might anticipate.
Flying to history.
I enjoyed reading Charles Lindbergh daring flight from New York to Paris.
We all know the story from the history books but read the real story from his lips.
You get in depth look in finding his plane.
How he organized the funding for the flight.
You really feel the intense moments of flight when he does not get the right sleep before his flight.
You know the story but he makes you feel like is he going to make it.I love all the stories from his youth and his times learning to fly.
I know that this was a Pulitzer prize book and Charles Lindbergh's solo flight across the Atlantic was a miracle and a necessary step to current aviation. He had some interesting reminiscences. BUT I got so bored. It took me months to get Lindberg "across the Atlantic". All of his thoughts, the technical language, it was just too much for me. I really love his wife's book Gift From the Sea. It is one of my all-time favorites.
It's interesting to read this through today's eyes. Charles Lindbergh had trouble getting people to fund his flight? But he's Charles Lindbergh! It's a historic flight! And yet in 1926, he was an airmail pilot in the Midwest. We forget that when we read the history books. We forget that he was racing others. That it was only some 25 years after the first flight ever.Lindbergh's book captures all of this, and is written in a simple, readable style.
