https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/226482.The_Man_Who_Japed
Dick novel needs to be made into a film by the Coen Brothers, it is The Man Who Japed.
This is Dick’s brilliant, quirky tribute to Dostoyevsky, I loved it.
In the VALIS trilogy, Dick demonstrated that he is a master at that most oblique of sub-genres, theological science fiction.
Kilgore Trout speaks with the voice of Raskolnikov, and he tells a joke.Dick also pays homage to James Joyce and borrows themes from Bradbury.
Written 13 years before Ubik, Dick’s masterpiece, this has some of the same tone and images that would come to fruition in the later work by a more mature writer.
The unit Allen and Janet Purcell live in could easily be a contemporary microapartment.
I was impressed that Dick rejected the Resort just as thoroughly as he rejected the Morec society.
Dick mocks the psychology and parapsychology of the Resort just as ruthlessly as he mocks the values of the Morec society.So what is Dick’s solution?
There is one example of true morality in The Man Who Japed and it gives me reason to hope for the best with the new society.
Mr. Wales is the little old man who always stood up for Allen at the block meetings.
When we make fun of a stale theme we say we’ve japed it.”“A term we use in packet assembly.
When we make fun of a stale theme we say we’ve japed it.”descriptionIn a post-apocalpyse world where you are tyrannized by not just your nation (aka the Moral Reclamation, or Morec), but your HOA, it is hard to be creative, to sin, to deviate from the norm.
The book is funny, odd, and for Dick fairly reserved.It seems like a perfect novel for a revolution.
Dick is kicking against conformity, government-sanctioned 'watching', and moral witch hunts.
Yuppie-of-the-future Allen Purcell is set to take over as director of Telemedia, a giant edutainment conglomerate responsible for producing a steady diet of pap programming to keep the population from thinking too hard (sort of like Fox).
He remains in print and continues to be read and critically appreciated because his writing was more psychologically and philosophically complex than much of the science fiction by his contemporaries in the '50s and '60s.
But Dick's novels remain firmly rooted in the martinis-n-cigarettes aesthetic of the Esquivel Space Age Lounge.
It's like "Mad Men" with rocketships and laserbeams.
Unusually, women are in positions of power in The Man Who Japed, and the Purcells actually seem to love each other (bad marriages are the norm for this author).Perhaps I’ve read too much PKD, or perhaps it’s because I had just finished another of his novels, but I was not truly entertained by The Man Who Japed until the last 20% of the story.
Luke Daniels, who I’ve come to love, reads the story and does a great job highlighting Dick’s weird sense of humor.
Having read the first three novels, I'll now move into his later work with a sense of where Dick is coming from; specifically, from those strange, post-war years of 1950's California, where all is sunny and bright and prosperous on the surface, but underneath there is the fear of nuclear annihilation and fantasies of a post-war society.This book starts in 2114, nearly a century and a half after an all-out nuclear war created havoc on earth.
Into this strange world came General Streiter to create a new society based on a strict moral code for all citizens.
I was going to say that The Man Who Japed was for Philip K.
Dick completists only, but then I read that in the mid 60's he considered it the best thing he had written to date.
The Man Who Japed was originally half of an Ace Double, so it could almost pass as a novella.
It is also just one of about five book-length works Dick wrote or put under copyright in 1956.
Satire and action here are good, but Dick's most prescient insights here have to do with real estate.
Imagine an episode of Mad Men which is unusually fraught with doom, and suddenly a spaceship flies by overhead - and you'll get an idea of how striking the discordant notes are.There is one especially nutty scene where our hero is being tested for psychic powers by a mysterious psychiatrist.
The "tests" run something like this: "Ok, try to set this on fire with your mind.
Maybe Dick just imagined that's how psychic power testing would go.The story is really a lightly disguised projection of Dick's own personal anxieties.
Maybe the spaceships in the future can fly between dreams and reality.
Dick's third novel, "The Man Who Japed," was originally published in one of those cute little "Ace doubles" (D-193, for all you collectors out there), back to back with E.C. Tubb's "The Space-Born," in 1956, and with a cover price of a whopping 35 cents.
(Ed Emshwiller's cover for "The Man Who Japed" was his first of many for these beloved double deckers.) As in Dick's previous novel, "The World Jones Made" (1955), the story takes place on an Earth following a nuclear Armageddon that has considerably changed mankind's lot.
K. Dick: fa parte delle sue prime produzioni letterarie, degli anni 50, anni di forte tensione e paura verso il pericolo nucleare, la Guerra Fredda, la Guerra di Corea...Un altro manifesto alla libertà: di vivere, di espressione, di pensiero, contro ogni totalitarismo, potere precostituito...
Il tutto, "speziato" dal solito stile ironico e graffiante, verso una società alla deriva, ma se ognuno di noi volesse...
Ma non è l'etica di questa società.
A Philip K Dick world if there ever was one.
And this is only his third novel.Jape is an intransitive verb meaning to say or do something jokingly or mockingly.
Alan Purcell, successful creator of propaganda, in a moment of madness, japes the statue of the current government's founder.You can imagine the rest but reading the book is worth it because Philip K Dick wrote it.
I am finally starting to figure out, though vaguely, his female characters.
They are subtle commentaries on the effects of a straight-laced society on the female psyche.Alan Purcell reminded me of Winston Smith in 1984.
An great early work from PKD.
Originally an Double ACE novel.
It's a sort of a "give it to the man" kind of thing.
A good fifties anti-establishment yarn written the way that only PKD could.
It's packed with a bunch of cool (and comedic) ideas such as slow 30 mile per hour car-chases with nuke-pile driven steam cars that are steered by tiller and mini "juvenile" robots that report everything you might say and do to some kind of authority, mandatory weekly confessional tell-all meetings at you communal residence.
The satire and action is plentiful in this rather short novel.

This is a quiet one, but its simple charm won me over.
We listened to this as an audio book. It was written around the end of the McCarthy era and was somewhat reminiscent of Orwell's 1984 in some respects. The politics were still relevant today. However, I was disappointed (but not surprised) at the authors lack of imagination regarding women's role in society. (Ref: Isaac Asimov's Caves of Steel). This is a short book and is worth a read if you haven't read it before.
3/10
The book deals with what it means to be sane, humor as a humanizing element and a challenge to authoritarian regimes, the need for privacy, the perils of legislated or community-enforced morality, and many other subjects.
It has little in the way of character development and scenery, so if you like books that provide these elements you should probably look elsewhere.
However, I like the fact that readers can develop radically different pictures of Dick's worlds by reading into the interstices in the text.
Also, Dick is most interested in addressing big ideas through his quirky stories, like how does a common man deal with an over-reaching and de-humanizing colossus?
The Man Who Japed is one of his earlier novels (written in 1956), so it hasn't got quite the polish or the heavy-duty mind bending of his mature books, but it's still a good read.
The story is set in a post-nuclear-holocaust future in which a repressive Moral Majority-type government has taken over society.
(I found this uncannily relevant to the present) The protagonist, Allen Purcell, gains a high-level position in the government and uses it to do something unprecedented.
I think Dick is making some good points about what happens to humor in such an uptight, self-righteous, repressed society, and about the uses to which humor can be put.
You can tell that this is one of Dick's earliest novels, the writing style is very weak compared to his later novels. However you still get the themes of social commentary and occasionally questioning the nature of reality and sanity that are such cornerstones of all P K Dick novels. Plot-wise this is a fairly good book with an interesting story, but as I said the writing style is off-putting. Something for an established P K Dick fan, but not if it's one of the first you read!
An early book by Philip K. Dick--from the mid '50s--so not as complex and out there as some of his later stuff. Short and from the era but still chock full of some of his themes--repressed society, technology and how it is used to control the population, the power of media. Dick is one of the masters of science fiction so pretty much anything he's written is worth checking out.
Not the best Philip K. Dick but even at his worst, some good ideas. Allen Purcell, head of an add agency that upholds Moral Reclamation undermines it during his night-time hours. The copy I have sold for 35 cents in 1956 and it was paired with E.C. Tubb's The Space-Born ("two complete novels") plus two complete lurid covers.What a deal!
Simple man-rebels-against-dystopia tale. Written in eary 1950's so presumably a reaction to McCarthyite witch-hunting. At only 158 pages, a very smartly realised future world and intriguing story - joy to read - good old PKD!
I say this because this, like many of his early and mid-career works, is essentially a workplace drama.
This raises a point that is both amusing and troubling in most all of PKD's 1950s and '60s work: there's almost instantaneous travel between star systems, sentient robots, advanced genetic manipulation, and so on, but women are still wives and lovers only, complete objects without roles beyond loyal companion or femme fatale always defined by their relations to the male characters.
well, lack of imagination.)That said, this is another 5-star book because PKD was a genius with what he did choose to "think different" about.
The novel is very short, but it benefits from its brevity.PKD's ability to whisk the reader off to strange and surreal twilight zones seems effortless and natural, as if he simply tunes some internal antennae to the just right frequency to catch the broadcast of these parallel dimensions.
It's the gift of an artist's true voice that allows familiar readers to be able to pick out a PKD passage from a blind line-up, and this novel is an early example of that voice being strength-trained and practiced.
I liked itTMWJ is a fun tail and as some people observed is a bit of a sendup to Dostoevsky.
beuracracies, mutual distrust, hypernormalisation, neighbor against neighbor, its all there.This is a bit like a space version of the 1950s, without all the PKD tropes of his 60's novels - TMWJ being his second?
full novel.
There is a nice mind bendy bit in the middle, which gave me the warm and fuzzies.
Ah yes it is a PKD novel after all.The ending is a nice balance between open endedness and closure.


How did PKD ever come up with all of these amazing stories? It blows my mind.His versions of dystopian futures are jarringly close to home. Imagine a world dominated by one person's moral vision and code. That type of closed-minded thinking is what is jarring our current society. This novel is relevant today and absolutely scary when you think that it could be our future.But, people will always break free and fight for what is right. PKD never forgot that either.
This book really showcases the humor that Philip K. Dick so often keeps bubbling up under the surface of his works. I love the idea of a joker in a utilitarian state, and there is so much beautiful character work here with the wife Janet, the quirky residents of the ever-changing apartment, and even the mysterious Gretchen. A great read, and a good intro to the lighter side of PKD.
PKD predicts the rise of Jerry Falwell's "Moral Majority" and exposes the brutality behind a society that values moral purity above all else.
