https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77923.Three_Tragedies
Three Tragedies: Blood Wedding, Yerma, Bernarda Alba, Federico García Lorca تاریخ نخستین خوانش: چهاردهم ماه نوامبر سال 2001 میلادیعنوان: سه نمایشنامه: عروسی خون، یرما، خانه برناردا آلبا؛ نویسنده: فدریکو گارسیا لورکا؛ مترجم : احمد شاملو؛ نشر چشمه در 328 صا. شربیانی
Δεν είχα διαβάσει ποτέ μου, αλλά στα πεζά πάντα με έλκυαν οι διάλογοι, αν γράφω μου είναι πολύ εύκολο να αναπαραστήσω διαλόγους, ενώ από την θεατρική αίθουσα βγαίνω με μια γλυκιά ανάταση, ακόμα και αν πρόκειται για ένα μέτριο έργο.
Σε ένα ταξίδι μου στην Ανδαλουσία, έπεσα πάνω σε τούτο το βιβλίο και το πήρα δίχως δεύτερη σκέψη.Η εισαγωγή είναι πολύ κατατοπιστική για το βάρος του Ισπανού δημιουργού.
The first part is a 25-page foreword written by the author’s brother discussing Lorca’s influences from their upbringing.
He also discusses the differing concerns in Lorca’s drama versus his poetry.
I appreciate that the Mother is preoccupied with one son’s death at the other son’s wedding, as I have found that funerals are much more interesting than weddings.
When I cannot attend a family member’s funeral, my first question is “How was the food afterwards?” I marvel at the potential flexibility of “Yerma” which is as much a poem as it is a tragedy.
Possible subtitles:Bitches Be Crazy Without Husbands and/or BabiesOtherwise Fully Capable Adults Who Cannot Take Responsibility For Their Own DecisionsMountains Out of MolehillsThese People Need Better HobbiesJane Austen Moves to Pre-War Spain and Loses Her Sense of Humor
تئاترِ سیاه لورکا؛ اسپانیای دههی سی. شرح گذران زندگی زنان و مردانی ناگزیر از سرنوشت. آنان تقدیر را همچون اطمینانشان به سپیدی روز پذیرفتهاند. بی آنکه به جنگ با آن روند و بخواهند کنارش زنندو اگر نیز چنین باشد، سرانجام مرگ است که آنان را کنار خواهد زد.
تئاترِ سیاه لورکا؛ اسپانیای دهه‌ی سی. شرح گذران زندگی زنان و مردانی ناگزیر از سرنوشت. آنان تقدیر را همچون اطمینانشان به سپیدی روز پذیرفته‌اند. بی آنکه به جنگ با آن روند و بخواهند کنارش زنندو اگر نیز چنین باشد، سر‌انجام مرگ است که آنان را کنار خواهد زد.
Yine de hep methini duyduğum Kanlı Düğün'ü okumuş olmak, Bernarda Alba'nın Evi'ne de ikinci bir şans vermek için (bu kadar sevilen bir yazarın oyununun bu kadar kötü olmasına inanmak istemiyor, kötü bir günüme denk geldi herhalde diye düşünüyordum) bu kitabı aldım.
Lorca'nın en büyük problemlerinden biri de bu: Kadınları bütün oyunlarda birer gerizekalı gibi davranıyorlar.
''Zorla evlendirildim'' deseler o bile kabulümdü aslında!Aşk hikayesi yazmak ille de insanların sevmedikleri erkeklerle evlenmelerini ve ilk dokundukları karşı cinse deli gibi aşık olmalarını gerektirmez.
Yahu geçen hafta Terminator'ü izledim, bütün samimiyetimle söylüyorum oradaki aşk hikayesi bu oyunlardakilerden çok daha iyiydi.3 oyunu da okuduktan sonra Lorca'nın şöhretini oyunlarından değil hayat hikayesinden ve siyasi karakterinden aldığına ikna oldum.
آنا با اطاعات خویش حتا به هنگامی که از آن جز درد و رنج حاصلی برنخواهد گرفت، سنت ها را جاودانی میکنند و از آنجا که مادران بدین سنن خانوادگی سر تسلیم فرود می آروند، مرگ یا قربانی شدن فرزندان خود را چون امری اجتناب ناپذیر میپذیرند(برگرفته از مقدمه کتاب).در عروسی خون، مادر که پیشاپیش سرنوشتی مشابه شوهر و پسر از دست رفته اش برای آخرین فرزند خویش احساس میکند، خود را در پرهیز از چنین سرنوشتی ناتوان می یابد.یرما اثر فدریکو گارسیا لورکا شاعر و نمایشنامه نویس اسپانیایی، نمایشنامه‌ای در سه پرده که در سال ۱۹۳۴ نوشته شده‌است و برای نخستین بار در همان سال اجرا شد.
The story resonates sadly until this day: A woman, today, of "advanced age", unmarried and childless, is frowned upon and often told - even by other women - that she will never know what it means "to be a woman".
The discrimination of older childless women is worrying me today as much as it probably occupied Lorca.
The presumption that motherhood equals womanhood needs to be seriously revised and Lorca's "blood trilogy" can only help in this sense.
In some ways, he was a true feminist.
A visionary book, oozing the blood of humanity on every page, without doubt.
به اعتقاد لورکا زندگی خیلی از ما به حدی به سنت ها گره خورده که همین سنت ها جلوی دست پامون و گرفته و سرانجام کسی که در برابرشون بایسته چیزی جز نابودی نیست..بازیگران دربرابر چنین سرنوشت ستمگری سر به عصیان برمی دارند.
اما هم در لحظه ی عصیان نیز نیک می دانند که از گردن کشی خویش، جز اینکه دریابند از به زانو درآوردن تقدیر ناتوانند و بدین گونه بر درد و رنج خود بیفزایند، سودی نمی برند.
گردن می کشند اما بی هیچ اعتقاد و ایمانی.
قد برافراشتن در برابر سرنوشت، به جز آنکه نهایت انقیاد و اطاعت ناگزیرشان را روی دایره بریزد، نتیجه ای به دست نمی دهد.
Very interestingly written.
Writing style reminds me of Hemingway, very short, straight to the point, but extremely powerful.
The plots just stay stuck in your head.
I'm conflicted over his portrayal of women.
He clearly sees the injustice in the social expectations of a "decent" woman during turn of the century rural Spain.
However, I find some of his character's actions not true to life and a rather negative portrayal of women as a whole.
Yet, he clearly finds women characters more interesting, the men take secondary, if even at all, roles in his plays.
Dark but beautiful. They are very sad, but so poetically written and presented. These translations preserve the intensity and beauty of the stories, and also give it a new life in English. I love the inclusion of some of the music in the appendix.
"اینا همش تقصیر خاکه...تقصیر عطری که از تو از موهای تو بلند میشه" و خیلی وحشتناکه که همه دلایل خودشونو دارن...
"اینا همش تقصیر خاکه...تقصیر عطری که از تو از موهای تو بلند می‌شه" و خیلی‌ وحشتناکه که همه دلایل خودشونو دارن...
Bad enough to be anybody in Spain under the cultural regime Lorca portrays, but to be a woman or gay or poor...
Does not make any sense. Didn't enjoy it at all.
The House of Bernarda Alba was simply wonderful.
“The House of Bernarda Alba and Other Plays” by Federico Garcia Lorca is a beautifully executed collection of the three best known plays by one of the best Spanish language authors of the twentieth century.
This translation for Penguin Modern Classics by Michael Dewell and Carmen Zapata is unique in that it was crafted through bi-lingual productions of the works with Spanish speaking actors.
The three works – “Blood Wedding,” “Yerma,” and “The House of Bernarda Alba” – are often classified together as the Rural Trilogy.
All three plays are true classics of twentieth-century theatre.
The blood wedding, my personal favourite, is about a woman who forgoes the customs and norms of the society by eloping with a married man.
The second play is Yerma, laden with poetry it speaks of a submissive housewife whose want for a child makes her defiant and eventually obsessive.And lastly, the house of Bernarda Alba, the most interesting.
Bernarda plays this dictator role to the women in the house and yet she has completely moulded herself to fit the role of this lonely and indoor bound woman - a role dictated by society and men.
Lorca's plays are pretty good.
I wasn't absolutely riveted by them but they were a good read.
'Blood Wedding' relies heavily on colour symbolism; I felt it was obviously a play that needs to be watched to 'get it'.
'The House of Bernarda Alba' was my favourite.
A bunch of sisters all unmarried, governed by a cruel mother who literally imprisons them in their house...
A moustachioed swaggerer lingering about outside the window causing three of the sisters to swoon etc., the oldest, richest and ugliest to be proposed to, while the youngest and poorest desperate to belong to the man.
Say what you want about these three plays by Lorca but for me they're the work of a true original... and each so distinct. There's something so expansive about "Blood Wedding" and something so masochistic about "Yerma" -- which seems so clearly about a gay man and his wife to me now. But my favorite of the three is "The House of Bernarda Alba," for which I was impatiently flipping the pages while asking "What's next? What's next? What's next?"
Having seen just last weekend the stunning updating of Lorca's "Yerma" under glass at the Park Avenue Armory by Simon Stone (I will be reading his adaptation next), starring the miraculous Billie Piper, I was curious to go back to Lorca's original. It's a fascinating comparative. I want to return to this volume to read "Blood Wedding" and "Bernarda Alba" at a later date; the 4 stars, then, are for "Yerma" alone.
Kadınlar hakkında üç oyun. Belki ispanyolca metin daha şiirsel ve güzeldir ama ben bu oyunlarda yerma ve bernardo oyunlarının kadınlarla ilgili meselelerini beğenmekle beraber, başka beğenecek birşey bulamadım.
A spare and simple series of translations of three of FGL’s plays. One wishes for more than a trace of his original language, but the English rendering is indelible and strong, with seemingly not a trace of fluff or fat.
there’s some great poetry + a fantastic monologue in here
Only read Blood Wedding, but I really appreciated the interpretation of greek tragedy in a spanish setting.
One of the best things about Lorca's writing is his use of evocative symbolism. I particularly enjoyed Blood wedding for its ending was strong. Overall I enjoyed reading the plays.
Love the drama of it all (no pun intended), full of feminine energy
abrupt swerves from everyday realism to myth
Why complain when one is presented with interesting little poems and rich female characters like Bernarda Alba and her daughters and the bride in "Blood Wedding"?
The play begins as the wedding day approaches, and Garcia Lorca slowly reveals the characters feelings for each other.In "Yerma", a young woman yearns deeply for a child and a family of her own, but her husband has no interest in fatherhood nor in her.
The focus is entirely on Yerma's desire for a child, and this gets a little tedious."La Casa de Bernarda Alba" is the most powerful of the bunch, if only for its harsh bitterness and stabbing one-liners.
یرما نیز اسیر تحجر و سنت هایی خشک و آزاردهنده شده و شوهری که فقط به فکر حرف مردم و آبرویش است و هیچ کاری برای شادی یرما نمی کند .
او حتی دلش بچه نیز نمی خواهد و در پایان نمایش این را می فهمیم که عامل ناباروری اوست نه یرما و یرما این همه سال قربانی شده است .
او در واقع با این کار پسر و آرزوهای خود را نیز کشته است .
آده لا دختر کوچک حاضر است بمیرد ولی از این زندان سنت های چندش آور رهایی یابد و سرانجام نیز همین امر محقق می شود .
In Yerma, Blood Wedding and The House of Bernarda Alba, Lorca portrays frustrated female sexuality in particular with extraordinary insight.
The House of Bernarda Alba, the most naturalistic of the three, but still clearly expressionistic, is my absolute favourite.
The character Pepe Romano, who is never seen onstage but drives the daughters of Bernarda Alba into a frenzy, is the result of astounding technique, as is the offstage, heart-breaking lynching scene.
Adela becomes "a sacrifice on the altar of respectability" (a quote actually concerning Wendla in Wedekind's Spring Awakening, but very fitting in this context too), and Lorca himself was murdered in mysterious circumstances, but for a reason that was all too obvious.This collection of plays is astoundingly rich and wonderful.
