https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7740152-torment
Kate has surely attempted to make Luce and Daniel's relationship 'healthy' by having Luce "question her destiny", but that's not really what's going on here, is it?
Healthy relationships are not about cheating on your partner just to get a rise out of them, dictating what your partner should look like and being disappointed when they decide to change their appearance, or trying to flatten your partner's personality and individuality to such an extent that they are incapable of being apart from you for eighteen days.
How is that healthy?But it's so true of the Luce/Daniel dynamic, though, isn't it?
I get Kate trying to portray that Luce wants her own life and her own independence.
I want to do all kinds of painful things to you and not in a Fifty Shades of Grey way.It must feel good, doesn’t it, knowing everyone is waiting for you to make the most important decision ever?
Even at the end of the book, when Luce just can’t get away from you quickly enough, you still act like the arrogant son of a bitch that you are, completely ignore all the others and decide that you know best, leaving all of them behind, wallowing in your arrogance and thinking you can do this all by yourself.
Like Shelby said, you don’t even know this Luce.
Now before I started reading Torment, a year had passed, the anger had subsided and I was ready to forgive Kate; naively thinking that the sequel would be a more satisfying ride.
The guy is a COMPLETE DOUCHE-BAG.I have never been more frustrated by a book (or book series) in my life.It is like Lauren Kate thinks she is upping the suspense if every single crucial piece of information is dangled just beyond our noses, but never given, forcing us to read until the end in the vain hope of getting some answers.
This book is fail.If it were a city it would be Failinburg.
If this book were a movie, it would be Million Dollar Failby.
How much did this book fail thee?
If this book were my Polish grandfather, its name would be Failinski.
Yes, I have a Polish grandfather.
He doesn't Failinski.
Unlike this book, which sucks.
Which reminds me, If this book were royalty it would live in Suckingham Palace.
You know what awards this book won other than NONE?
The Man Sucker International Book Prize.
If you read this book for shits and giggles, you'd still be disappointed.
Never has a book been so aptly titled. Reading this book was a kind of torment, and I don't say that solely because I was stuck in an airport for an ungodly number of hours with only this ass book as company. The only more fitting title would maybe be something like Shit Sandwich.It's a special talent to write a sequel that makes me long for its extremely implausible, poorly written predecessor. And yet, here we are.  Shit Sandwich  Torment picks up where Fallen left off. Luce is being whisked a

“I will always catch you when you fall”  I have to say Torment is not bad at all, in my opinion. The parts that keeps me continuing this series are the setting and riddles. Gah ! I want to know about Luce and Daniel's past. What has happened between them that makes Daniel so cryptic like this. And there must be something more about Luce for she can summon the Announcer like a pro. About the truce made by Daniel and Cam, I think consequences must come after it ends. The End Game is coming.  “Wou
They're growing and growing that I'm afraid whether she can answer the questions that is floating in my head by the end of book four.I just don't understand, in this book, why Luce and Daniel always bicker and come with a new issue whenever they see each other.
I could understand the way Daniel has treated her through this book forces she to this path, but I was not okay when they could have talked about it sooner and these problem wouldn't happen.By the way, Torment is as enjoyable as Fallen.
And Daniel's love for Luce overcomes the bad things in this series.
The plot is to die for!!! OMG!!!yeah, im looking forward to this because i really liked the first one
Fallen.I don't like this series; i don't like the characters, the development of the story, the secret life of Lucinda Price, the archangels, mainly all the angels from your story, the Outcasts, the heavenly never-ending war between good and bad.I just don't like your piece of shit story.
maybe Daniel had talk to her like that once, but she was sure that she'd never tolerated itNo, definitely not, you hypocritical piece of bad heroine.Another thing that bothered me was; Why the heck is Lucinda Price famous at Shoreline?That's like taking an old, moldy pie, and add a smelly cup of milk; It's just gross, and definitely not something, somebody would like to have.
This is how the book went...1.Luce changes schools because Daniel wants to keep her safe.2.Luce misses daniel 3.Daniel appears4.they kiss5.they fight6.luce leaves7.almost gets herself killed8.livesRepeat 1-8 five more timesEnd of Torment This book wasn't the best book i have ever read but it wasn't the worst.
I did want to pull out my hair when Luce almost gets herself killed several times in the book and it doesn't help she cries in EVERY chapter.
YA second book novels arent always the best but the fallen series looks promising so read it and hopefully would will enjoy!
I can't wait.... =0)10/08/10Omg I read the book!!! Tears tears why do I have to wait next year for the 3rd book Fallen Series "Passion" Ahhhhh (screaming right now) I enjoy reading this book. Poor Luce =( If I was in her position I woulld of done the same seriously. And I don't blame her. (Everything that Luce had done. I Don't want to spoil anyone.) I can't wait for "Passion". I'm so curious about Daniel, and the others. Omg !!!
Oh Lucinda Price. Could you be any stupider?
Instead, I was treated to nearly 500 pages of an insipid, seemingly bipolar angel who inexplicably loves a fickle, petulant, whiny girl-child who couldn't decipher the back of a cereal box with a room full of Mensa members helping her.
For hundreds of pages, not even a little bit explained.I closed this book and the only remaining feeling I had (aside from intense ire at the time and money lost in reading it) was, "What was the point?!"Luce isn't the type of girl I would waste a piece of gum on, let alone wage wars between Heaven and Hell.
Epic love?
I really wanted to like this book.
She took everything Daniel told her in the first book on faith, and days later she is now questioning everything.
I can't image that this is who Daniel loves.
Luce's interest in Miles made her an even less sympathetic character.
She should have told Daniel she loved him but needed to be alone for awhile.
Surely Lauren Kate meant the torment that Luce is going through, but for me, reading this book was torment.Passion, the third book, is supposed to be about their previous lives.
I hope that Luce is a better character in that one.
The first three quarters of this book were absolute torment to get through, but the end did pave the way for a somewhat-interesting third book in the series.As I was persevering through this thing, I realized that the main appeal Fallen held was the secret of what supernatural creature Daniel is.
There was absolutely nothing to keep you engaged in the story.I mentioned this in my brief review of Fallen, but it still rings true in this novel: Luce is the most boring character in all of YA fiction.
So when I found this book in book fair I was so excited, but after reading this book I was bit disappointed.The story starts after the events of Fallen, Cam- the demon and Daniel -the angle made an eighteen-day truce to protect Luce who was Daniel 's love and a mortal from the Outcast.
During her time in Shoreline, Luce's division between angels and demons becomes blurry when she discovers that Daniel and Cam are fighting side by side.
Leaving her past and into her future and Daniel, follows her.I am love reading books with angles, demons or vampires in it, in short, YA fantasies.
. you’re nothing more than what you appear to be: a stupid, selfish, ignorant, spoiled little girl who thinks the world lives or dies on whether she gets to go out with some good-looking boy at school.” Well said, Miss Sophia, well said.Everything is drama to this girl.
Well, first, what the heck about Luce appeals to Daniel at all?
Then, knowing that, shouldn’t Daniel be telling her, Hey, Luce, dye your hair blond for no reason.
Miles is still cute and Daniel is totally responsible for my having to keep re-living my life.
The first half will make you want to What to say about TORMENT.
The first half of it was absolutely dreadful, all information about Luce's life at Shoreline and "I miss Daniel" this and "I miss Daniel" that.
It was blander than tofu (which I've never actually eaten before, but from what I've heard of it, it's pretty bland).The second half picked up, though, when mild action and a few unsuspecting plot twists are thrown in.
*reads summary on Goodreads*Hell on earth.That’s what it’s like for Luce to be apart from her fallen angel boyfriend, Daniel.It took them an eternity to find one another, but now he has told her he must go away.
Daniel hides Luce at Shoreline, a school on the rocky California coast with unusually gifted students: Nephilim, the offspring of fallen angels and humans.At Shoreline, Luce learns what the Shadows are, and how she can use them as windows to her previous lives.
Yet the more Luce learns, the more she suspects that Daniel hasn’t told her everything.
omg the book isnt even out yet and im drooling i cant wait till it comes out yaaaay
I swear every single time he and Luce meet, they fight, end up pissed off at each other, and go their separate ways.
I assume that guy is Mike [or whatever his name is, I know for a fact it starts with Mi.], though I am not so sure, because the phrase makes it sound like a total soul mate that shares a super deep connection with Luce- but of course it's not Daniel.
The whole premise of the story that had so much potential to offer was just "Torment" — yup, see the pun here.
We continued on with the tragic romance of Luce a human and her fallen angel Daniel.
The sweetest love in all of history, where they cannot be together because Luce dies.
Her curse is that she gets reincarnated and with each new life she falls in love with Daniel again — only this time something has changed and she hasn't died yet.Here is a quick synopsis of what went on that really bugged me.1.
The whole book is about Luce whining about missing Daniel.2.
evil and angels vs.
“Are you okay?" Daniel whispered, his voice soft, his lips so close to hers."Yes." She could feel the beating of his wings. "You caught me.""I will always catch you when you fall.”   In this book Luce finds herself in yet another private school from which she can't leave.Daniel left her here only with instructions to never leave the school and a promise to return to her.He doesn't tell her where he is going or what he's doing only to  never  leave the school grounds.So what is she doing?Leavin
In this book Luce finds herself in yet another private school from which she can't leave.Daniel left her here only with instructions to never leave the school and a promise to return to her.He doesn't tell her where he is going or what he's doing only to 
if you don't want her to burst into flames then just DON'T KISS HER.Second...
Dear Author Lauren Kate,Anytime you feel the need to title a book with a word who's synonyms include; Suffering, irration, hell,excruation, torture...
you had better damn well make sure the reader's are not feeling any of those emotions.
You have successfully took something that could have possibly been an interesting story and turned it into unrelatable, long, annoying garbage.
You know it's bad when you have this huge love story going on and you're rooting for the new guy to take her away.
I'm not into book torture, but this one is just asking for it!!!FAIL!Dear goodreads team,Take my advice, don't do this to yourself!!!
I wanted to rip the book into pieces so many times.Let's start with the good: Miles.
Which is funny because in comparison to her supposed soulmate, true love of all time, he actually had a lot more chemistry with her.And now the bad.
If a guy picks a fight over you for something as simple as changing your hair color that is the big clue to DUMP HIS ASS IMMEDIATELY.
Yes, I know that if you've supposedly been killed and reborn for thousands of years you might want to find out how your other life lived but *why*?
I am not liking this book at all.
The author very cleverly made sure she didnt reveal anyyyyy details of the plot in the 1st book forcing the reader to read the second book.
Who would want those 300 pages to go waste?
But guess what its still a waste!!!!!!
Even more that half way through Torment the author does not reveal anything and thats just plain stupid.
The lead character, Luce, really gets to you in the 2nd book.
The characters are tooooo irritating only because the author over does it by the time you are half way through the book.
I couldn't remember if I liked the first book Fallen or not and since I said I was going to do a buddy read for this book, Torment, I just sort of went with it.
I would rather sit in the dentist office for like 48 hours than read this book ever again.
Like, read another book (or four), do laundry, shower, walk the dogs, etc.
I would rather watch a show that I hate than read this book.
I apologize to anyone that actually liked this book and then I also have to ask - DID WE READ THE SAME BOOK?!?I'm done with this series.
But publishers are now demanding trilogies, which means weaker individual books and tons of padding.
The addition of Shelby and Miles to the mix is a good one, but the constant padding of the plot means that they're less well-developed than they could (or should) be.
The battle at the end of the book is also a little odd because nothing is ever fully explained.
All questions that weren't answered here, and given the questions left hanging (and unanswered) at the end of Fallen, they're unlikely to be answered in the next/final book.ARC provided by publisher.
“Sometimes beautiful things come into our lives out of nowhere. We can't always understand them, but we have to trust in them. I know you want to question everything, but sometimes it pays to just have a little faith.” Well, this was fairly good. I loved how it shows the ways a relationship from afar can get difficult in so many ways. It was good reading about the hardship of keeping a relationship together, at all costs. Luce isn't perfect, she makes mistake and that's what I love & hate a
There is friendship and there is confusion and the lines between friendship and romance get blurred and Daniel gets hurt because Luce doubts what they have, but still believes in him and in their relationship.Daniel Grigori, well, I just love the dude..
I know it wasn't easy for her to sit and wait while her boyfriend was doing his best just in order for them two to be together but after all he wasn't doing it just for himself but for her too which is something she couldn't understand and went on and let herself hurt Daniel.I wish this book would be just a little more fast-paced, it was too slow and that's the reason why I gave it 3-stars, it was slow compared to the first installment, but still remained just as compelling.
I kept thinking as I was reading Torment by Lauren Kate, "It has to get better, right?" Nope. A wasted read and I will not make that mistake again. My Rating: 1 star (honestly, I was tempted to write in a negative number but I'm not that cruel)
Daniel and Cam arrange for her to be hidden at a special school on the California coast: a school which boasts both angels and demons as teachers, not to mention a group of Nephilim students.
Despite their undeniable love, Luce finds herself questioning whether she and Daniel should be together.I am disappointed that so many questions are still unanswered–for over a book now, I’ve been wondering about the strange relationship between the angels and demons and I was hoping that Torment would reveal more than it did.
