https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296302.The_Last_Summer
The characters in this book all annoyed the crap out of me. I love you! I hate you! I love you! And hate you! It's a thin line between love and hate, yes. It's also a thin line between me reading this and barfing. They all deserved each other, which was the saving grace of it all.
It almost seems to me like Brashares could have put this in a different time- turn of the century, something Wharton-esque, and the love story aspect would have come out splendidly.
Because the characters are so tortured.
It still works now, I'm just not used to seeing so much torture in the present day.
3. Several times I've caught myself rereading a particular sentence over and over, and I think, what a lovely sentence.
Every time we go into Paul's head, he is asking a zillion questions, but he usually winds up answering them in the next paragraph.
Alice is an annoying girl who spends the entire book whining about her childhood friend Paul.
No I don't think he loves me.Paul is an annoying guy who spends the entire book angsting about Alice.
I think I DO love Alice.
And she's like I AM BETTER THAN PILLS.
And the doctors are like "this is what happens when you don't take the entire bottle of pills, you idiot." But Riley doesn't care because SHE IS BETTER THAN RHEUMATIC HEART DISEASE.
And her family gets all weepy but I'm pretty sure the doctors all just rolled their eyes because Riley was such an arrogant prick.
To me, this book is a gem that holds a special place in my heart, because it is very perspective, raw with emotions, and just the right book I've been looking for.I am officially in love with the very mature way Ann Brashares explains her story.
I love how the author knows each character perfectly - we can't just imagine how they look, but also how they react, how they feel, their preferences, their insights, their feelings, and each is very personal and sensitive in a good way.
I certainly wish the author will write more books like this, for more mature readers.
Riley's the older sister, outdoors-driven to the point where she eshews "normal" relationships and activities with which others her age are consumed; Alice, her amazingly beautiful, selfless and smart younger sister; and Paul, the rich, semi-tortured (as all stereotypical rich kids are) boy-next-door and Riley's best, platonic friend.Here come the spoilers.It's an easy, quick read, no question.
So Paul and Alice fall in love but don't tell Riley for fear of leaving her behind, despite the fact they already have in a sense.
They make love like monkeys (if monkeys "make love") until the fateful night Riley falls irrecoverably ill, leaving Alice feeling -- surprise!
:)When people ask me what my favorite book is I always say Pride and Prejudice, and that isn’t really the truth anymore.
I want to hunt crab and see the different kinds of beaches and eat egg sandwiches while the sun comes up.
Ann Brashares came for a book signing a few years ago and I turned around a block away from the site because I couldn’t handle if she had been rude to me.
I don’t think she would have, but I don’t want anything to hinder my love for this novel.
She wanted him to see her whole and not in pieces.
The Last Summer (of You & Me), by Ann Brashares (the author of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series) is an adult novel which tells the story of three friends/siblings: Paul, Riley, and Alice. Each is in their early twenties, and like the generation they belong to, they’re still on the cusp between childhood and adulthood, trying to figure out who they are and their relationships with each other and the rest of the world. Riley is especially immature; at twenty-five she still makes a
The Last Summer (of You & Me), by Ann Brashares (the author of The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants series) is an adult novel which tells the story of three friends/siblings: Paul, Riley, and Alice.
Instead, the characters, their thoughts, and their relationships are built up and described so lovingly, that the book and its subject matter become one and the same: like the summer it describes, this novel is at once beautiful and fleeting.
It’s impossible to put down, but at the same time you’ll want to cling to it, to draw it out and not let it end.
Eh. Definitely a light and easy read. I found her writing style somewhat annoying. I feel like she was trying too hard to be philosophical or sound intelligent. She's big on using contrasts. Over and over. She would write things like "She didn't know if he needed more or less of her. Maybe neither. Maybe both. Maybe it's always both." It got tiresome. I also had trouble feeling for the characters. Probably because I thought how they handled the situation was completely not believable and totally unrealistic.
It has been really long since a book had obsessed me to the point I can't stop reading it, and I can't stop thinking about it.
It's the story of two sisters, Riley and Alice and Riley's best friend, Paul, they have known each other since years.
:)This is exactly my point of view; "I thought this book was a fantastic summer read.
I thought it was going to be about a love triangle between the two sisters (Riley and Alice) and their childhood friend (Paul), but it isn't.
I have a high tolerance for frequently trod tropes if a) I really like the characters (for whatever reason) and 2) the writing is engaging and surprising.
Unfortunately, the main characters make me want to hit them over the head with very large bricks - over and over again and I felt that I could see the plot turns coming several chapters ahead of time.
To be fair to the book, I finished it and did so quickly (in a couple of hours) but I felt manipulated and a little soiled afterwards.
Good book. A tear-jerker.
My 1st book by this author. I loved it!
Maybe for some readers it is, I usually expect a great plot from a crime novel but most of the time what really matters to me is the atmosphere, the dialogue, the overall feeling that a book is able to convey in my day.I will soon turn 29 and I haven’t read the sisterhood series by Ann Brashares yet, I recently read The Last summer (of you and me) and I loved it (literally couldn’t put it down).A brief regarding the plot: the book takes place in Fire Island and it develops around three characters: Riley, 24, who has never fully made the transition to adulthood, gifted in sports she has remained close to her childhood world; Paul has been Riley’s best friend, her match in physical activities and something of an older cruel brother to Alice; Alice, is Riley’s younger sister and a more complex character whose magic develops through the story.
But when I read about Ann Brashares' first adult foray, it sounded like the right time to give her a shot.
Given how much I enjoyed this one, I figure I'd better give it a try sometime in the near future.Alice and her big sister Riley share a beach home on Fire Island.
Twenty-one and ready for something to happen in her life, Alice stands on the dock waiting for their childhood friend Paul to arrive for the summer.
Main trio Alice, Paul, and Riley try to navigate their post-adolescent years while holding their difficult three-way relationship intact.
I fell in love with Alice and Paul.

this book is dumb and shallow. i know this book is intended for YA. but this must be the dumbest plot i ever read. i literally have to skip many pages and after 50%, i just wish i can skip this book and put it on forgotten shelf.
My favorite book ever. This book was my first 'adult' book and I enjoy it now more than ever.
This was a 'nice' book. I liked the characters but didn't fall in love with them. The story was easy to read but provoked no real thinking. A quick summer holiday read.

Secondly the characters are all very immature for their ages (early to mid twenties) I don't know whether thats an accurate reflection of that age group nowadays or not, I like to think not.
I'm also unsure as to whether or not it was a deliberate action by the author, by that I mean did she make them that way or does she think that,that is the way everyone in this age group behalves/thinks.
They also 'think about' and pick apart their lives far too much in the same way insecure teens may think far too much, if they 'thought less' and 'did more' their story would have been far more emotional than it already is.
I have to admit to really loving the traveling pants series, and so I was WICKED excited when a local bookstore had a HUGE sale and I could nab this book at 1/2 price.
I didn't cry like the reviews say you must (or something's wrong with you) but mostly because I wasn't really surprised by anything that happened.I also felt like there were too many loose ends that she didn't tie up in her final chapter, and I'm genuinely hoping she's not planning on writing a sequel to this mediocre book.
But, mediocre or not, I liked this book.
terrible
Ah, sweet summer. For sisters Riley and Alice, summer brings them back to Fire Island and the town of Waterby. The book takes place when the sisters have matured into their 20's, along with their summer friend, Paul, who returns after being gone for 3 years. As the author of "The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants", Brashares specializes in evoking strong emotions. This book - while sad in parts - will bring you back to the summers of your youth, even if they didn't involve a beach house, swimming and sand. An emotional read.
Avis sur mon blog: http://read-listen-feel.skyrock.com Ayant lu toute la série de livres Quatre filles et un jeans, j'étais très curieuse de voir si ce roman me plairait autant que la série qui a fait le succès de cette auteure.
Une chose est certaine, le résumé me plaisait déjà beaucoup.Alice et sa soeur Riley sont de retour à leur maison de vacances sur la plage pour y passer un autre été, mais cette fois, elles ne seront pas seules puisque Paul, leur ami d'enfance et voisin, a aussi décidé de venir cet été après trois ans d'absence.
I picked this book up at the library off a display featuring "Bildungsromans" which, a helpful sign explained to me was: "a novel about the early years of somebody's life, exploring the development of his or her character and personality." God, I love librarians.
And such a fun one.I was also interested in seeing how Brashares fared writing adult fiction.
Her "Traveling Pants" were fabulous, could she maintain her winning streak in the harsh world of adult fiction?I loved this book.
Even if they end in the best possible way, doesn't everyone look back at them with a sense of sadness?
I've read Ann's My name is memory book and I really loved it.
From the title you can guess where this story goes and then when you read you have the whole picture, except the end.
Just to say, there is not love triangle in this book.
But still the love story gets complicated.
The whole writing, with long narrations I didn't like, but some sentences were lovely.
It's easy read with shallow characters and love story.
I'm not person for that type of the book (nor I read it at the beach).
but this book came highly recommended to me by my friend, Angie.
I just love a good "summer-beach-friendship triangle" read.
I was reading some reviews on this book and came across one that someone named "Jami" did not click the spoiler button (but instead typed in SPOILER - but you could still see the content at a glance)...
THANKS JAMI!!
I thoroughly enjoyed this book!
I fell in love with Fire Island all of the characters in the story.
I would love to visit Fire Island sometime and have dinner at the Yacht Club!!
There should be a rating on books or a least some kind of notification.
Maybe I should read more reviews about stuff.
This book is about 2 sisters that have two very different relationships with the same boy.
They end up in a sexual relationship.
The sister's relationship suffers some setbacks when the romance inadvertently causes the fatal illness of one of them.
I read this author after reading the traveling pants series because she is great at developing her characters.
This is an adult book for the sexual relationship described between one sister and the boy character.
Gros gros coup de ♥!Une ambiance de vacances, le sable chaud, les gens pieds nus, les portes ouvertes, le bruit des vagues, la mer, une écriture juste et trois personnages principaux dont je suis tombée sous le charme.Puis des sentiments naissants, parfois difficiles à accepter, un drame, des vérités qu'on n'a pas envie d'avouer, la réalité, l'amour, le chagrin, l'été qui revient...Et le temps qui passe...Cette histoire m'a terriblement émue, parfois jusqu'aux larmes, les sentiments sont forts, c'est beau, touchant. Je suis conquise! ^^Mon billet ici: http://chezmllepointilles.over-blog.c...
I was sucked into this book from page 1. I read it during the Tigers' play off game, in the grocery store parking lot, and in front of the school, where I arrived 30 minutes early so that I would have time to read. To say that I could not put it down would be an understatement. I finished last night, through eyes glazed over with tears, and picked it up this morning to re-read some of my favorite parts. You don't need to know anything more than that you need to pick this book up and read it, TODAY!
