https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/303472.Among_the_Impostors
The plot line of this series is just very interesting and I remember now why I loved these books when I was younger.They are so underrated, so I think y’all should check this series out.
you really have to read the first shadow children book to get this one.
it follows through where Luke gets a new fake identity.
He becomes lee grant, a former boy who died in a ski accident.Luke goes through the school trying to blend in,as he was told.
if you want more information read the book.the writer really takes a whole paragraph to explains Lukes feelings which i like.
it gives you a better understanding of how he truly feels.This book is not predictable like some others.
I had no idea about the ending.I would say that mainly people who are into the first should definably read this book.
5*This is like revolution leader angst. The main character is obviously going to become some genius that frees all the shadow children. This kid is already so good and this isn't even his final form. I like all the references to Jen from the first book because there are these moments where Luke wants to be more brave like Jen, but it's because he much more cautious and careful than Jen that his steps in their ultimate goal to help free everyone are more effective. Jen's ideas was a great motivator for his ambition.
The Good: This dystopian, fast-paced story made for a good quick read. You have to read the previous book to get it, but, it's worth it!The Bad: As someone who was harassed throughout my school years, the bullying scenes were hard to read.Conclusion: Despite the fact that some moments in this book triggered some bad memories, I still enjoyed it. I'm glad I have the next two in the series on hand!
This book reminds me of what is happening in the world because I have heard of in China and in other countries, there have been problems with the population so there were laws where you could only have so many kids to try to keep the populations down.
Schattenkinder ist eine Dystopie-Reihe für jüngere Jugendliche, die sich in 6 Bücher aufteilt.
In dieser Welt kam es aufgrund von Überbevölkerung zu einer weltweiten Hungersnot und die Menschheit musste ums Überleben kämpfen.
In diesem Zuge beschloss die Regierung, dass jede Familie maximal zwei Kinder haben dürfe.
Diese Schattenkinder werden versteckt und von der Regierung gejagt.
Luke ist eines dieser Kinder und wir verfolgen in dieser Reihe seinen Kampf gegen die Regierung und somit für ein Leben in Freiheit.Auch im zweiten Teil ging es wieder spannend weiter und ich bin auch schon auf den nächsten Teil gespannt!
One something really big happens in the book, such as Luke/Lee meeting the group of other shadow children in the woods, I think the details are skipped over.
When Luke/Lee overheard Jason in the hallway talking to the population police as an informant, everything was rushed.
In the morning, after Luke/Lee turned Jason into the nurse and broke into the main office to contact Mr. Talbot to inform him about the people who were in danger, nothing was said about anything.
I think there are too many gaps in the book that leave out important or interesting information.
Luke, also known as Lee Grant, and Jen's dad moved away.
Lee Grant goes to this Hendricks Boys School and he's afraid that he's going to blow off his identity.
He starts to hang out with a group of friends, but he's not sure if he could trust any of them.
Jason was one of the people he hangs out with.
Later on, Lee Grant found out that Jason works with the Population Police.
This book was good, you'll get it if you had already read the first book of the series.
I would recommend it to people who loves to read mysterious books.
It was a very good book with many twists and turns. I would recommend it to everyone in the galaxy if I could!! VERY ambiguous story! I love it because it is super duper coooooooooooooool :) ! Stay pragmatic!~Daniel
This book is okay, it's really not that intense as the first book. But I read it any way I'm not gonna read the whole series because I'm focusing on the new series I'm reading, so yeah. This book is about an illegal third child name Luke Garner and Jen's Dad is trying to help him and he goes to this school for boys and he is really scared of blowing his cover of being an illegal third child.I think this book is okay because I like how Luke finally experienced the world. The first book is more intense.
Change in Luke's life came when he walked into Hendricks School for Boys as a new person.
Who knows, you'll just have to read on!Among the Impostors- Post 3/4Third child group meetings kept going on, but at a steady pace things have changed.
It turns out that the person he trusted, Jason, was either bribed by the Population Police to do their dirty work, or he was fighting for a cause that he believed in.Mr. Hendricks and Mr. Talbot mutually proposed the idea of Luke moving to another school.
I thought the book was great because they finally got a secret I.D. and found out there were more shadow children at the school.
Luke Garner is an illegal third child who lives in a time where parents are allowed only two children due to famines.
Because he is an illegal third child, Luke gets a fake I.D. and is posing as Lee Grant, a boy from from the powerful Grant family who died, at Hendricks.
He gets lost one day and finds a wooden door that leads outside to some woods.
On day, Luke goes to the woods again only to discover that the vegetables that he planted had been destroyed.
Luke discovers that night that the students who go out to the woods are third children with fake I.D.s, just like him.
B.R#3 Among The Impostors is a spectacular sequel to Among The Hidden. It is by Margaret Peterson Haddix. There are many different characters.There is Luke, Mr. Talbot, Jackal boy, and Mr. Dirk. They each play a key role in the book. They all help Luke along the way through Hendricks School for Boys. They made Luke realize a way to help shadow children everywhere.“When I came out of hiding I told my parents that I wanted to help other third children. Only, I didn't know how. But now I do.” The s
There are many different characters.There is Luke, Mr. Talbot, Jackal boy, and Mr. Dirk.
They all help Luke along the way through Hendricks School for Boys.
They made Luke realize a way to help shadow children everywhere.“When I came out of hiding I told my parents that I wanted to help other third children.
The setting has a great role in Luke's progression through the book.
The note only had two words: Blend in” By blending it helped Luke figure out what he was going to do to help shadow children come out of hiding.
I would highly recommend Among The Impostors.
Luke doesn't know what to do in his new life at Hendrick's school.
The only thing that Luke can hope for is the note Mr.Talbot left him.
Luke kept waiting for the perfect time to look at the note.
Until one day Luke spots a open door, and quickly bolts outside to look at the note.
So Luke waits the people out for days until he watches the door open, Luke quickly follows the group of boys into the woods, the group is met by a group of girls, Luke listens to what they say.
And the idea is just great--a boarding school without windows with a nearly autonomous student population (the teachers throw out meaningless demerits and don't seem to take attendance).
They serve as camouflage for Lee Grant and other third children sought by the Population Police in a chillingly familiar future America ruled by an authoritarian government.
Luke Garner/Lee Grant is really forced into resilience in 'Among the Impostors.' The reader roots for him as he stands up to bullying and learns to trust in his own strength.I'm really enjoying 'Shadow Children.' Thanks, Naomi, and others who have recommended it to me.
This series first captured my interest when I was thirteen. Six years later I still occasionally return to them as comfort reads. It's rare to find books that were age appropriate as a tween an early teen that remain interesting years later.Among the Impostors follows twelve year old Luke Garner, an illegal third child. After his only friend, another third child, dies, Luke is separated from his family and taken to hide in a boys school. There he meets other third children...but he's not sure all of them are what they seem to be.
I hate to dis the author but the whole scared little hiding Luke is getting kind of old. I think that like the first book in the shadow children series, there is to little action.
I also liked how it kept me wanting to read the next book in the series.Plot:Luke Garner was a third child who was given a fake ID and sent to attend school at Hendrick's School for Boys.
Luke figured out that all the kids he met were third children.
Luke knocked Jason out cold and picked up the phone to find that Jason was talking with the population police.The next day the population police showed up, Jason pointed out the kids Luke met by saying they all were third children.
It also gave children who read the book a good perspective on what was happening in this time period.Thematic Connection:The main theme for the book was survival.
Mr. Talbot obtained the necessary papers for him and as Luke says good-bye to his family, he is taken to the Hendricks School for Boys.
Never having been outside before, let alone meeting new people, Luke is frightened and apprehensive.
Luke just wants to make a friend, a friend like he had in Jen, but right from the start, he is subjected to bullies.
He grabs his chance to explore outside the walls, and what he finds is truly amazing, yet bewildering.
Among the Impostors is a fast-paced, thrilling suspense second book in the Shadow Children series.
Among the Imposters is a book about a boy named Luke/Lee Grant who is a third child. You're not allowed to have third children where he lives. Luke is scared throughout the whole book. I never wanted to put this book down, it was a good book from the first page on.
Okay, I'm a little bit hooked! This certainly isn't the best series I've ever read, but I definitely need to find out what happens! RTC.
I love this series. The deep thinking that it inspires and the decision-makers it creates.
Super easy/quick read but I am so into this story line, I can't quit reading the series.
If you realy enjoy action this is a book for you .
It was ok because on luke's first time in that school, it was hard for him because he thought that life
Luke is tormentented every night by a boy he called Jason and is tormented every day by classes he doesn't understand.
Luke waits by the door and follows the boys out to a clearing in the woods where they meet a group of girls from a neighboring school called Harlow's School for Girls.
Luke figures out that all the kids meeting are third children like him who are making plans for a second rally, but they never take action to make it happen.
The story line is getting really good and i heard that the later books are really good, so can't wait until i'm done reading them.Plot: Mr. Talbot works for the government but thinks the population police is a stupid thing.
Luke followed him and figured out that Jason had a cellphone and was working for the population police to turn in kids.
The next day in the morning the population police raided the school and tried to take the kids from it.
He made fun of many kids and made school terrible for Lee. He was working for the population police.
I liked the way the author wrote what Luke was thinking in his head to help us imagine what type of person he is.
I think Jason never liked any of the kids that were in the group because he was always mean to them and he was bossing them around.
According to the text Jason wanted to find out all the real names of the peopled in the group.
According to the text Jason was one of the leaders of the group which made me even more surprised when I read that he worked for the police.
I read the first book of the series as well and the craziness only continued After Luke received a fake ID from Jen’s dad who was Mr. Talbot and started school at Hendricks School for Boys.
He then realized he needed to understand things going on around him and met Jason who he thought was his friend but he came to realize he was not even close to his friend.Plot:Among the Impostors was a thrilling novel that continued the first book, Among the Hidden, where Luke was in hiding but then became free with his fake ID he received.
This book started with Luke going to Hendricks School for Boys in the fake name Lee Grant.
