https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206090.Mad_About_Madeline
This volume contains the complete "Madeline" books: Madeline, Madeline and The Bad Hat, Madeline's Rescue, Madeline and The Gypsies, Madeline in London, and Madeline's Christmas.
These books are loved, especially by young children, because all have wonderful paintings and drawings on every page and because of engaging rhyme & meter in the stories.
The stories are about the spunky Parisian girl named Madeline.
This edition contains some biographical information about & photos of the author.I also have Madeline & Madeline's Rescue as separate books from my childhood years.
Think had Madeline and the Bad Hat as well when I was a kid.
My favorite part about rereading stories like these as an adult is not just the new perspective and appreciation for the works themselves, but often the additional commentary included in compilations or anniversary publications that add depth and context to these stories.There are a few different illustration styles throughout – from somewhat loose and expressive black ink drawings with minimal white and yellow backgrounds, to more elaborate and colorful gouache environmental scenes.
The final book, Madeline’s Christmas, is inconsistent in its style throughout, incorporating new scenes with light colorful washes of paint and an alternative technique for character close-ups.
Originally published as "Mad About Madeline", this new edition is simply gorgeous! Growing up, I never got around to reading these cute stories because they were always checked out of our elementary school's library. Love the illustrations and rhyming! This edition also contains some of the author's early sketches and background history of how he created these endearing classics.
A favourite from my childhood. Enjoyed sharing these stories with my two little men, M. (4) and T. (3).
A good children's book, but I liked the television show much better.
This is a lovely children's book.
it's a collection of stories centered around the character who shares a name with the stories, and I think a lot of people feel nostalgic toward these stories.
I don't really feel the connection others do to the stories, but I do love the cartoon.
I am very happy to add this to my growing collection of children's books, and I would suggest that anyone in touch with their inner child pick this up.
I especially love that this isn't about princesses getting rescued by a prince.
It's about a little girl who loves advventure.
I have not read Madeline in YEARS, and it was just like I remembered it. From Madeline getting her appendix removed, to finding Genevieve, and all the adventures with Pepito....this was so nice to revisit. It actually kind of makes me want to see the movie again.
A Madeline Treasury is cute collection of simple stories aim for younger children. The drawings are child like and simple.
Besides the Madeline stories, there is an introduction by Anna Quindlen on how the stories have enriched her life as a parent and at the end of the volume, there are sketches and a brief history of the Madeline stories.The six stories in this volume are: * Madeline (1939) (Read my review) * Madeline and the Bad Hat (1956) * Madeline's Rescue (1953) * Madeline and the Gypsies (1959) * Madeline in London (1961) * Madeline's Christmas (1965)My favorite stories from the book are Madeline and Madeline's Rescue because the are the most grounded in reality.
I think Elise has read all of the Madeline stories individually, but reading from a collection has been especially nice: you get into a Madeline mood and my daughter was really tuning into the rhythm of the language.
My daughter is a bit too old for Madeline now, but she definitely enjoyed the drawings.
I could tell she was paying close attention to them; she noticed that sometimes Madeline has red hair and sometimes blonde, and other little details like that.In case you didn't know, nothing after Madeline's Rescue is all that good - the rhyming is forced and the stories not as exciting.
i do love all the madeleine books. :)
I love Madeline. I always have and I was glad to find this book once again when going through my things. Madeline will always hold a special place in my heart.
So many sweet, nostalgic feelings while reading this. Madeline's Rescue (Genevieve!) and Madeline's Christmas, my favorites out of the collection. 3.8 stars
Kreska jest niezwykle prosta - widzimy dwanaście dziewczynek w identycznych mundurkach i kapeluszach z włosami z kresek i oczami z kropek oraz ich wychowawczynię z internatu - pannę Clavel.
(...) najmniejsza z nich / miała na imię Madeline." Tą właśnie dziewczynkę poznajemy bliżej - niepokorną wychowankę swojej ulubionej pani z internatu, którą nierzadko przyprawia o drżenie serca, ale robi to z niezachwianym przekonaniem, że w poważnych sytuacjach będzie po jej stronie.
Postać pani Clavel to przykład świetnej wychowawczyni internatu, która jest wzorem dla swoich dziewczynek - uczy, jak powinny się zachowywać damy a w trudnych sytuacjach zawsze stawia na pierwszym miejscu dziecko ponad przepisami i murem stoi za swoimi wychowankami.
I bought this book remembering the reaction of a fellow reader in a book sale.
Her reaction put me under the impression that it was a beloved book in her early years.
Book sales and book stores are my candy stores.
I was not sure how my daughter will feel about the story or illustration or will she just hear one story only to dislike it and leave the book accumulate dust in the shelf.
Surprisingly, that one story led to another and before I realized it the book was already done in one sitting.
The books included are: Madeline, Madeline and The Bad Hat, Madeline's Rescue, Madeline and The Gypsies, and Madeline in London.
The classic Madeline story is my favorite, but I also enjoyed all the stories in this book.
What I loved most about this edition is that after each story there would be a page listing which illustration was from what location or what it was.
For an example, if you didn't know what the Eiffel Tower looked like, at the end of the story it told you that this particular illustrations was the Eiffel Tower and it is located in Paris, France.
(I technically have the Barnes and Noble edition, but regardless, it’s a collection with all the Madeline stories) This year I’m slowly building up my collection of children’s books and I’m so happy I now have Madeline as a part of it. I adore the illustrations and the rhymes and I have memories of reading this with my mom and watching the cartoons at 6am before going to elementary school. It felt really special to venture back into these stories as a 21-year-old at two in the morning with a blanket and a mug of hot chocolate.
This is my guilty pleasure: I am obsessed with little French school-girl Madeline! The illustrations are beautiful, and she is a stubborn little girl. The actual story-wordings could sometimes be "interesting", because it is obvious how much the author is separated from the American soft-wording, especially towards kids. Love it!
For anyone who enjoys Madeline's adventures, this big book is sure to satisfy. It consists of the Six stories:Madeline;Madeline's Rescue;Madeline and the Bad Hat;Madeline and the Gypsies;Madeline in London;Madeline's Christmas.
In an old house in Paris that's covered in vines will stick with me till the day I die. Wonderful book, my daughters loved it and though in out of high school, we still have it on the shelf.
Very, very cute book. I enjoyed reading all of the stories.
3.5
Madeline 5/5Madeline and the Bad Hat 5/5Madeline's Rescue 5/5Madeline and the Gypsies 5/5Madeline in London 5/5Madeline's Christmas 5/5Rhyming Paris + London
Super quick and fun read! The pictures were adorable and aesthetically pleasing. Plus, love the binding :)
Świetna, króciutka książeczka z przepięknymi ilustracjami. Wspaniale było znów, choć przez chwilę, poczuć się jak dziecko.
Love the art! My kids (1 and 3) sat and listened to all 320 pages of this in one sitting! A great, quality edition of the classic books.
Beautiful book. Finally read the full collection of Madeline books. I loved it!
Enjoyed this book
Childhood nostalgia is always amazing.
Such an adorable read. Perfect for any age in my eyes 😃
