https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2761.The_Denial_of_Death
It shouldn’t come as a surprise then that the solution that Becker suggests towards the end of book for ridding man of his vital lie is what he calls a fusion of psychology and religion: The only way that man can face his fate, deal with the inherent misery of his condition, and achieve his heroism, is to give himself to something outside the physical – call it God or whatever you want.A rather disappointing solution, even though he is not talking about any traditional religion.
Or as Morrissey sings:So we go inside and we gravely read the stonesAll those people, all those livesWhere are they now ?With loves, and hatesAnd passions just like mineThey were bornAnd then they livedAnd then they diedIt seems so unfairI want to cryIn a psychoanalytical view of development (which I don't think I fully agree with, but which I think is much more accurate that some other cognitive theories of childhood development that would say that a child can't really comprehend death till they are closer to adolescence; maybe I'm an anomaly but I can remember brooding over my eventual death at five or six-and realizing that it meant that I would no longer be here, but everything else still would be) that Becker presents the child goes from a God-like state where every need is met just by willing (crying) it into existence, to the realization that it's body shits, that expels waste and that it is just a mere creature and not god-like (this is kind of heady stuff for whatever age your supposed to go through the anal stage of development).
This book is extremely important. I can't emphasize this enough.
If Ernest Becker can show that psychoanalysis is both a science and a mythic belief system, he will have found a way around man’s anxiety over death.
Becker tells us that the idea that man can give his life meaning through self-creation is wrong.
Anyhow, it’s a proven fact.This stronger medicine needs the survival instinct, Becker’s terror of death.
This reductio of the sex drive thus exalts the survival instinct, and the author installs his psycho-mythic add-on to assuage the terror of death.
Only psychiatry and religion can deal with the meaning of life, says Becker, who avoids philosophy.
I really only want to read this if it's going to give me concrete, practical, how-to tips on denying death.
"The irony of man's condition is that the deepest need is to be free of the anxiety of death and annihilation; but it is life itself which awakens it, and so we must shrink from being fully alive." —Ernest BeckerThe sloppy latticework of gnarled tree branches anchors the foreground while Devlin and Geoffrey puff upon thick, stolen cigars, steathily removed from a father’s humidor, stashed in the closet of a house that was summarily purchased with blood, sweat and finely tuned 'n' directed tears.
Aren’t we just living like all the other people?
What is it all about?After reading this book, the sheer madness of the 20th and 21st century seems apparent-- no longer mysterious.
If you think you are living on a rollercoaster-- hate how you've been strapped onto the monster's back...
this book will make sense of your secret fears.
We live in a world designed for speed, afraid of our own mortality, in a world where the dying get tucked away from our eyes.
Would we spend a lifetime trying to scramble to the top of the economic food chain?
If I manage to live long enough to grow old despite my overwhelming urge to suicide now and then , I would look back on this book as my first lesson on 'human condition'.
Man wants to stand out from the rest of nature, to curve out an unique self, to assert his individuality.
Even if your animal body dies, your symbolic self may live on forever through your immortality project.
And he also dismissed 'eastern mysticism ', saying it's sort of an cowardly evasion of the reality and thereby doesn't fit 'brave western man'.
It might be, according to Ernest Becker, that this Causa Sui Project, though he writes of his analysis as mostly assumptions based on Ernest Jones' biography of Freud, was a lie - that this project is the individual's attempt to overcome his smallness and limitations - because he is still in many ways bound to the laws of something that transcends him, and denying it would be tantamount to neurosis.
Some assert superiority by tearing others down on balderdash presumptions; others gain it through luck; and the rare few gain it on demonstrable merit.Becker takes great pains to resurrect Freudian thought by moving the focus of "sexual instinct" and placing it under the broader "terror of death." It's mostly an attempt to keep the structural integrity of psychoanalysis intact by retrofitting a new cornerstone.
While I do believe The Denial of Death is valuable because some people may be living under this schematic, it's best to read this as a possibility for some thinking, not as a blanket humanity statement.
How do people deal with death? By wanting to do something which endures.
One of those rare books that will change your perspective about EVERYTHING. Even though I don't agree with everything in this book I wish I could give it 10 stars.
I’m sure that somewhere there’s an Onoda-type holdout department that won’t let the old stuff go, or one or two octogenarian professors whose names are recognizable enough that they haven’t been forced into retirement, but for me psychoanalysis was primarily discussed in the past tense.This book is from 1973, and clearly had quite an impact on American thought at the time (if Woody Allen movies are any representation, at least), but seems impossibly dated forty years later.
In the end, it critiques the nature of psychology and science itself in relation to civilization by declining to give any definitive solution to man's problems.Personally, I would not view this book as a highly original work but as an elegant synthesis and brief yet structured presentation of preexisting psychoanalytical ideas by the previous psychologists and philosophers with a few personal notions sprinkled and substantiated here and there.
THIS informal feature makes this book highly readable for a beginner in psychology like me and helps better connect this work to my own personal life and Boy!
It's a brilliant book, in which Becker discusses Otto Rank's writings in a highly accessible way, that is absolutely relevant to 21st century society.
238).And also can you please overlook all the gendered language, and the way women don't count as actual people to Becker?
It's part of the attempt to frame Hitler as a monstrous being, rather than as a man who carried out monstrous acts.
Over the years people have also attempted to frame Hitler as gay for the same reason.
Aqui fica o que tenho a dizer sobre o mesmo.Temos de começar por compreender que "The Denial of Death" é de 1973 e que se viviam tempos de ciência muito diferentes, mas isso não pode permitir que um livro destes passe por entre os pingos de chuva incólume, sem crítica, ainda para mais com pessoas bem posicionadas fazendo-lhe elogios nos dias de hoje (Ex. Bill Clinton colocou-o na sua lista de 21 melhores livros, em 2003).O que é então "The Denial of Death"?
But ultimately, Becker like Kierkegaard and Buber (whom he mentions often along with Otto Rank and Paul Tillach) is calling us to become our own heroes, or at least acknowledges that some of us rise to the occasion, raise the bar, so to speak and live our lives as our own kind of heroes, a life that Becker calls "cosmic heroism." For Becker, because death-anxiety is the pivot around which all symbolic action turns, because death generates the motivation for the symbolic construction of "immortality projects," society is essentially "a codified hero system" and every society is in the sense that it represents itself as ultimate, at its heart a religious system.
DISCLAIMER: I can not do this book justice with a review.The artist, the pervert, the homosexual, Freud, adults, Hitler, kids.....basically all of humanity gets placed under the analytic microscope that is Ernest Becker's mind.
Ernest Becker argues that the madmen/women suffer because they take in too much of the infinite REALITY of existence and cannot narrow their view.
The genius and the artist do the same, they take more of REALITY in, but channel it in a healthy way into some kind of creative work.
Is there a 'couldn't bring myself to finish' rating?
I'm fairly well read, I've taken philosophy classes, I've powered through some pretty dry books.
But apparently I CANNOT bring myself to power through a dry book about PSYCHOANALYSIS.
Being a modern psych major, and a fairly well-read one at that, AND one who has dealt with mental issues personally...
I don't know what the last book was that I could not only not finish, but couldn't even bring myself to put it back on the to-read at a later date shelf.
I'm not going to lie and pretend like I understood all of this book or fully grasped all of the philosophical points in the book, because I didn't.
So I'm not even going to try.
What I will say is that I do plan to keep reading it, to try and understand it better, quite often.
Also plan on looking up some explanations of the parts I could tell were important but couldn't grasp.
What I'm really trying to say here is that you don't have to be extremely intelligent to enjoy this book, or even to get many of his points.
WHAT IS YOUR LEGACY?Becker's Pulitzer Prize winning book was written while he was dying-- it is his final gift to humanity.
Praised by Elizabeth Kubler Ross, The New York Times Book Review, Sam Keen, you name it.
One of my brightest, most humane friends described it as, "The only book I've ever read twice." Becker says-- very thoroughly, too-- that everything we humans do is to blot out the understanding that we die.
That includes all the monuments to our egos we leave behind: shopping centers, vineyards, hotels, motels, cities, piles of stuff for our relatives to clean up, as well as poetry, art, and literature.
What is your legacy?
You know that scene in Annie Hall where Woody Allen summons Marshall McLuhan out of the shrubbery to shout down the movie queue bloviator?
"You know nothing of my work!"Becker sounded like that guy.Maybe that was harsh.
After all, Becker has a lot of useful tips for living properly, and for realizing how the death phobia infects our day-to-day interactions.That being said, I had some skepticism from the beginning, and that kept growing...
a few too many denunciations of orthodox Freudianism followed by relying on such fusty, unempirical notions as the castration complex and the "primal scene," before peaking in the mental illness sections.
I'd had one psychology class at the time and figured he was probably right, that it would be difficult reading for someone who had a hard time getting through any of his text books and didn't have much interest in psychoanalysis, except as a subject in Woody Allen movies.
But my limited knowledge of Freud, Jung, and the other important thinkers that Becker discusses, did not prevent me from understanding or getting a lot out of this book.Becker talks about different areas of psychoanalytical thought, arguing that a human's basic and most natural struggle is to rationalize himself as a mortal animal aware of his own mortality, something which makes him unique on this planet and also in a constant state of fear.
Old School psychoanalytic exploration of death and its meaning in the human condition.
The fact that we dream of the stars yet at the same time are stuck in absurd mortal animal bodies is the central tension of our psychological lives.
We soar symbolically yet are bound the earth will eventually return to dust.
This tension causes much of human neurosis and psychosis and drives much ordinary behavior.
It is the impetus of world historical figures from conquerors to saints and other assorted monument builders.
Religion would not exist without it.
Very fun book even if the freudian view is out of date these days.

A book for reflection and meditation.
It was a joy to read despite the title.
The Denial of Death is an easy read.
And it is enlightening.
The only fault I find with it (there must be one, yea?) is that it focuses too much on psychology/psychoanalysis.
Granted, the book does require a strong assertion of these fields, but I feel that at some points, it was giving us more summaries of theories than coming up with something original.
Still, it is a must read for anyone who is curious about how one consciously or ( mostly) unconsciously deals with death.
He has to go the way of the grasshopper, even though it takes longer." I know that my own personal theological, religious, & spiritual belief colors my vision, but I found Becker's ultimate conclusions somewhat hopeless.
This prize winning book from 1973 has immense value today because it captures how very smart people explained the world in those days and it is amazing we ever got out of the self referential tautological cave that was being created to explain who we are.
He will tell us that it is our repression and our denial that end up giving us our neurosis.
He does not use the psychoanalytical system developed by Freud because he makes our neurosis more than just dependent on sexual repressions, but nevertheless his system ends with 'castration', 'transference', and other such psychoanalytical belief systems.
His long works on Oedipus Theory, heroism, psychoanalysis and neurosis are an eye opener and makes you dive deeper in this human brain.In The Denial of Death, Becker tried to explore the human obsession with life and immortality and the unconscious fear of mortality and oblivion which we all try to suppress and forget.
A great book for all fans of psychology and the depths of the human mind.It was fascinating to read about the works of psychoanalysis in a neutral light and understand how the landscape of psycho-analytics developed in the past two centuries, especially with regards to death, religion and heroism.
An important book for all of us to read, though I bogged down a bit during the sex parts.
And those areas I admit ignorance of I will have to pass on my judgment, though those parts did seem a bit dated given our present social and political states regarding same-sex unions.
But this book was not at all political.
Becker was covering every possible neurosis in his study of our desire for immortality, and it was refreshing and freeing to read him say things such as, "…All living organisms are condemned to perversity, to the narrowness of being mere fragments of a larger totality that overwhelms them, which they cannot understand or truly cope with — yet must still live and struggle in."
