https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24783.Westmark
At the beginning of sixth grade my teacher pulled out The Book of Three, the first in Alexander's Chronicles of Prydain, and began reading.
Alexander is so well-known for the Chronicles of Prydain and it seems to me this little gem of a trilogy hasn't gotten quite the same reception, though WESTMARK actually won the National Book Award in 1982.
I have re-read them many times since the first time and I love them more with every encounter.Main character Theo is, in fact, a devil.
Here's a HUGE coincidence.
I remember reading this book/series in 5th grade and I LOVED IT!
I checked this book out over and over and just was enthralled with it.
For YEARS now, YEARS mind you, I was trying to remember the name of this book.
I googled everything I could possibly remember about this book to no avail.
THEN, a couple of days ago, I was in a thrift store and I literally found MY BOOK!
The cover I remembered, it had been purchased from the library where I had checked it out and there it WAS!!!
For 50 cents!!
I have not read this book in years and I don't care if it's still really good or not, but as a kid, I had SUCH a crush on this book. Sigh.ETA: When I was 10, I thought this cover was the HOTTEST THING EVER. Just saying.
Westmark is a compact, quick-paced start to a fantasy series and it is the first of Alexander's works I've read.
Theo, the main character, is apprentice to a printer in a kingdom where the king rules in name only, as he's been overcome with grief since the disappearance of his daughter years before.
When Theo agrees to print up an order for Musket, a dwarf working for a traveling magician/con man Dr. Absalom, it runs contrary to the Cabbarus' rules and sets up a story of escape, evasion, and intrigue.
If you're looking for an entry point into Lloyd Alexander's fantasy books, this one is perfect.
(Which is good, because once I started it, I didn't really want to put it down.)Second, Alexander does a great job of making his characters have different goals and points of view.
Being a good guy in this book is a complicated thing - it doesn't mean that you want the same thing as all the other good guys.
(Personally, I've been wishing for ages for more fantasy novels in which the characters fight to restore the just and rightful democracy, and Lloyd Alexander's had one for a couple of decades now.)
One gets the sense he is trying to live up to an unrealizable ideal, one he is as incapable of modifying as he is of embodying.On the other end of the spectrum, Cabbarus is the kind of villain I can get behind.
Sparrow has been forced to become a quick and accurate calculator by living in a world of scarcity--or maybe she was born with the ability to grasp arithmetical concepts intuitively and that is why she and Weasel survive.This is not to say that Alexander is saying virtue is a luxury for the rich or even for the reasonably well-fed.
ughhhh
Theo encounters danger and opportunity as he makes his way across Westmark, but must continuously fight with himself about what it means to be a good and virtuous person.
It goes along as follows, ending the chapter, and making the reader stop and think about the conversation this book continuously asks the reader to have:"The first day I met you," said Theo, "at Rina's birthday party, you said there was only one law, that all mean are brothers."Florian nodded.
And the people who follow it?""Next time you see Jellinek," said Florian, "ask him if he's ever found a way to make an omelet without breaking eggs.""Yes," Theo said.
:)Here's a brief synopsis:A boy fleeing from criminal charges falls in with a charlatan, his dwarf attendant, and an urchin girl, travels with them about the kingdom of Westmark, and ultimately arrives at the palace where the king is grieving over the loss of his daughter.
--This text refers to an out of print or unavailable edition of this title.From the PublisherFalling in with a roguish doctor, his dwarf attendant and an urchin girl, Theo embarks on an unforgettable adventure in the kingdom of Westmark.
DISCUSSING THE MORALITY OF REVOLUTION, WHERE HAS THIS BEEN ALL MY LIFEi went through a major alexander phase in middle school, and i read all of prydian and all of vesper holly and a lot else besides, but somehow i never read the westmark trilogy??? why??????? this is SO FANTASTIC.
Theo and Mickle like each other, but the Author doesn’t let their attraction get in the way of what is, at its heart, a good adventure story.
It is the sort of romance a story like this needs: clearly there, but not overbearing, doesn’t make the characters start behaving ridiculously, and really doesn’t even come up as an issue until the very end.Plot: As I have said, it’s an adventure story, and it has all the elements that are needed.
I love the era the Author chose for his story - 1700s - and I really liked the twist in the end.
Westmark is a country where the king has lost his will to live due to the believed premature death of his daughter, Augusta, and Carabbus (the chief minister) has surreptitiously taken over.
The book is a young adult primer on the psychology of war and its justification; violence is seen through the eyes of those who inflict it and those who suffer from it.
The writing is sparse and much of the detail found in The Prydain Chronicles is gone, however, that does not diminish the book's characterizations.
I thought it was wonderful. How come I had never read this before!btw, haven't finished the 2nd book yet. But just wanted to say, don't get too attached to (view spoiler)[ Stock, Rina, Luther (hide spoiler)]. They die :(. Rather grisly... but the death and torture was not gratuitous, and not drawn out for effect.warning for the 3rd book, which I could not read; just skimmed through, specially when (view spoiler)[ Witz (the queen's faithful captain/colonel from book2) (hide spoiler)] dies. who el
How come I had never read this before!btw, haven't finished the 2nd book yet.
But just wanted to say, don't get too attached to (view spoiler)[ Stock, Rina, Luther  (hide spoiler)].
but the death and torture was not gratuitous, and not drawn out for effect.warning for the 3rd book, which I could not read; just skimmed through, specially when (view spoiler)[ Witz (the queen's faithful captain/colonel from book2) (hide spoiler)] dies.
(view spoiler)[ Kasperl (hide spoiler)] from book1.
for a moment i thought (view spoiler)[Weasel (hide spoiler)], who gets shot at, has died as well, but no, shows up in a later scene.
Effectively ruling the kingdom as his chief counselor is the villainous Cabbarus, who disposes of anyone who threatens his power without the inconvenience of a trial.
The king's only faithful adviser, his personal physician, has been banished and, for good measure, followed to the docks by one of Cabbarus's hand-picked assassins.
Cabbarus wants to be king in name as well as in effect, but a few persistent obstacles remain in his way.
If it isn't, after all, much different from places Alexander has taken you before, take note: this book has a sequel.
He encounters posh fraudster Las Bombas and his halfling servant Musket, and when a bedraggled young urchin woman joins the party Theo struggles to find his honor and join those fighting to restore decency to the kingdom.I have read and loved Lloyd Alexander's Prydain series for two decades, and Westmark has been on my list for almost as long, but it's difficult to track down.
In some ways, especially initially, there were a loooot of obvious similarities (there's a Taran, an Eilonwy, a Flewwddur and a Doli, though no apparent Gurgi as yet...), but as it went along Westmark really differentiated itself.
Theo is certainly another young man in search of his place in the world, but its far more realistic setting provides Westmark with clerarer "real world" references and enables the characters and the narrator to engage in wider political and social issues withouth preaching a single truth.
Westmark is a pre-Enlightment European-like setting in which a cunning conspirator aiming to get hold of the throne is thwarted by a young, idealistic man's quest for truth and a motley band of rogues, revolutionaries, and reformists.
Theo is no charming prince, but a young man with a good heart and that is the core of his charm, his flaws, and his quest.
Not sure exactly why, though, it just could have been a little more interesting for my taste.However, this book was clean and not very much violence(A few gun scenes but that's about it), so if you're wary of stuff like that, I would try this one.One of the characters, Las Bombas(literally meaning "the bombs"), was supposed to be on the good guy side, but I questioned him a lot.
Honesty was what he believed in, though he did have slip-ups and end up lying.Overall the book was interesting enough, but I'm not sure if I'm going to continue the series.
This was one of the few Lloyd Alexander books that I missed as a child.
I read and reread the Prydain Chronicles and the Vesper Holly series, but glossed over the Westmark trilogy.
I'm so glad that I read it now.
It's a good story, tightly written and fast paced.
As always, Alexander includes a cast of imperfect but lovable characters, with strong female heroines.
Theo is a printer's apprentice at a time when free speech is discouraged.
His master is killed and the press destroyed, putting him on the run.
If you want a quick, satisfying read, this is a good one.
It has been a long-time since I read a book by Mr. Alexander. I enjoined reading this book. It is the story of a devil - a printer's assistant who was known as a devil. The law had decided to get rid of presses and the young man has to leave town. He winds up with a con man and eventually finds a young girl. The young lady can throw her voice and this talent leads to the conclusion of the story.Though this book was written for young adults, I feel any age would enjoy reading Westmark.
This is one of the best books I've ever read. It is a spectacular combination of comedy, romance, action, and suspense. Lloyd Alexander develops the characters magnificently so that they feel like more than imaginary people in a book. They are friends, and you are embarrassed for them when they are humiliated, delighted when they find what they are looking for, angry when they are hurt or made fun of, and lonely when you finish the book. This is a must-read!
The first of the semi-fantasy novels of the Westmark Trilogy, featuring the adventurers of Theo, a young printer's apprentice, and his companions Count Las Bombas and his servant, a pair of con artists, and Mickle, a girl with a mysterious past; all of whom are being sought by the malignant Chief Minister Cabbarus, during a time of strife similar to our own French Revolution.
Review of whole series:Well developed characters and a believable country make this series an enjoyable read. Definitely intended as a series, but details are re-given in the later books and each has the elements of a stand alone story. The only Alexanders so far that I am unlikely to re-read, especially since the final ending seemed a bit loose.
This book was just delightful. I loved the characters and the humor. I can’t wait to read the rest of the series.
To me, it is awe inspiring that Lloyd Alexander can take a setting, situation, and characters that the greats like Hugo and Dickens played around with, and he can portray the same ideas in infinitely abridged form.
Being a young adult writer, I am more and more understanding, requires a skill set equal to if not greater than many other adult fiction writers--and Lloyd Alexander has to be considered as one of the perfect examples of how to do that correctly.Anyway, as I am reading the whole trilogy, which is really like one, single novel, you will be hearing more from me on Lloyd Alexander, but I'll try to focus more on the story for the next two books than I have here.
Now a fugitive, Theo finds unlikely companions in Las Bombas, a quack doctor; Musket, a short-tempered dwarf; and Mickle, a skinny orphan girl who swaggers by day and weeps by night.While Theo adjusts to life on the run, Westmark teeters on the brink of ruin.
The man who generously saved and sheltered an orphan child, yet who made his living by deceiving people with illusions and false promises—was he a saint or a scoundrel?“Rascal he is,” [said Musket,] “But he’s a good-natured one.
And Theo: Was he truly as good as he once thought himself?“You held back,” said Florian.
But there is also love and friendship and learning that some things are worth fighting and dying for.As is to be expected from an Alexander book, the cast of characters is colorful, the villain is appropriately horrible (really horrible, in fact), and (as is common with Alexander heroes) Theo-the-protagonist spends a great deal of time charmingly bewildered and outright frustrated.
Although the two characters share a certain commonality--both do their growing up in a country torn by war--Theo is a young man of very black-and-white morality and a certian rigid honesty who is very much an everyman: what he'd really like is to be left alone to do an honest job for an honest wage.
It is a wonderful young adult series and the fact that it still reads well (over twenty years after being written) is a testament to Alexander's exceptional style of fantasy writing.Theo is an apprentice to a printer in a time where the monarchy is becoming increasingly stringent about printed materials.
Theo partakes in some wild adventures and struggles with the morals of the livelihood he is making as a rogue, he eventually tries to make a honest living, but that only ends up with him deeply embroiled in politics that could make or break the country.This book was a wonderful classic young adult fantasy.
Theo thought to help his master by taking on a job to print some pamphlets, but his actions inadvertently lead to his master's murder and himself becoming a fugitive.
That intrigue works its way down even to Theo, whose actions may save the country.
Theo's crisis of conscience throughout the book drew me more than the plot, as he questions who he is and who he thought he was, and he never finds an easy answer.
First, the description of Mickle on the back cover hints much more strongly than the book itself that her past is relevant to the current story.
I actually have never read any of Lloyd Alexander's books before which I find rather odd now since I totally would have loved these when I was younger, but now I am definitely a fan.Cover--Yea or Nay: I don't hate it, but I don't like the character representations either.
You can tell it's a fantasy/adventure novel, but I don't like how Theo or Mickle are drawn.Characters: This book had the great kind of cast that one should expect in an adventure novel.
Likewise so were Mucket, Las Bombas and Mickle who was an awesome female character and actually reminded me of the kind of heroines I like to write about.
By allowing the reader to follow Theo on his travels through Westmark, we are able to witness as he evolves and even get frustrated as his ideas of right and wrong are challenged by every single character he meets along the way.
Lloyd Alexander caught me over and over again with his seemingly innocent yet startling phrases like this opening line which reads:Theo, by occupation, was a devil.Which although being perfectly true, doesn't exactly mean what you think it might.
If this is what every Lloyd Alexander book reads like, you can be sure I'll be blazing through his oeuvre without delay.
