https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75639.A_Season_on_the_Brink
I am not an athlete nor a huge sports fan, but I do read a wide variety of genres and have enjoyed some athletic nonfiction previously.
I did learn some new things about Bobby Knight, about his compassion, his kindness, and his commitment to education (not just athletics), that impressed me.
However, his story and the anger and frustration he showed others, how he treated others, etc.; the good in my mind just could not outweigh the bad.
Bobby Knight's story made me sick.
If you love basketball, if you are so curious about Bobby Knight that you have to read this, then do.
This book proves 2 things without a doubt:1. Bob Knight is an asshole2. You can read about a game or see it live, but basketball is best enjoyed on TV in the comfort of your own home.The end.
On my to be read list for as long as I have had one. It seemed perfect for a short vacation around the NCAA final and to be a perfect bookend to "The Last Days of Knight" coming up on ESPN. A fascinating look inside an elite program. But the sacrifice these players put in while playing for Bob Knight? Not sure it was worth it. Especially the abuse.
Actually a pretty well-written book, but two stars because after 308 pages I have no idea why Knight was such a good coach. I know he's extremely emotional, dictatorial, self-centered and obsessive while also being a pretty good-seeming guy, but I have no idea how he became the winningnest coach in D1 college ball history.
stop the presses!Bob Knight is an asshole......
Several times in the book, he reached out with great warmness and generosity to kids with disabilities.So there's more to Bob Knight than a screaming, sexist chair-thrower.
I'm not trying to say that there's not a place for toughness in coaching, but that toughness should be controlled, not meted out in random bursts and mind games that simply aren't fair to the players.
So I understand Bob Knight a lot better, but I still don't like him.
Actually, the fact that Knight didn't like the book, despite how fair Feinstein was to him, should be consider another notch against his character.
Instead, I consumed the entire book in one sitting, as it was an absolutely enjoyable read and kept me interested throughout.The book itself is basically a documentary of the 1985-86 Indiana Hoosiers, who had disappointed mightily in the year beforehand, and thus, needed a makeup season, not just for the school, who expects their basketball team to contend for national and conference titles every year, but for Bobby Knight, the coach of the squad, who himself is notable for his short-fused temper.
2nd most wins in college in college basketball history, just behind his former player Coach K.
Fiery temper, little control of his emotions, demanding perfection, and he gets the absolute most out of his teams ability and heart.
Despite how unbelievably hard he is on his teams, most former players say he is the best college coach ever.
Reading this book reminded me a lot of Walter Isaacson's book on Steve Jobs.
In fact, both men remind me a lot of each other.
How did he get his players to deliver every drop of talent out of their basketball skills?
Believe this book was ground zero for sports teams allowing embedded authors. Was between books and wanted to read it again as it's been a while. Bobby Knight allowed John Feinstein unparalleled access and the book lifted the curtain on what was going on behind the scenes with the University of Indiana men's basketball program. Looking back on Al McGuire's forward was telling as to what might transpire for Coach Knight down the road. The book was just as good the second time around.
A look inside the Indiana program in the 1980's and head coach Bob Knight. The book explores his interesting ideology of fear base coaching and the overwhelming success which it breeds. A detailed look at a true winning coach inside a basketball crazed state. While Feinstein enjoyed unreal access to the team, you can tell that the majority of Knight's worst moments were left out of the book. Still worth a read.
Nothing too surprising and think I would have LOVED to play for him
Incredible the access that Feinstein had. Clear concise writing that made me not want to put the book down.
In this context, the recent ESPN 30 for 30 documentary, the Last Days of Knight, is a great companion piece for this book – especially to see how the standards of behaviour expected from a winning coach have clearly changed since Knight’s glory days.It is fascinating though how, far back in the mid-80’s, so many of Knight’s friends correctly predicted in comments to Feinstein that Knight’s reign would end badly because of his aggressive behaviour.
Indeed, one of the players chronicled in the book, Todd Jadlow, has published his own book in recent years which includes specifics about the physical abuse he took from Knight – including getting punched in the back of the head with a closed fist.Feinstein also captures the warm side of Knight – in particular his loyalty and his dedication to his friends.
If anything the book might be a too-sympathetic portrayal; Feinstein mainly represents Knight as being driven by love of the game and desire to win, when in reality his main concern was with himself, namely how he was treated and how he was represented in the media.
Anyway it's a compelling story regardless of your personal opinion of Bob Knight; the behind-the-scenes access that Feinstein was granted to write the book was unprecedented, resulting in a fascinating look at a man struggling under the weight of his own notoriety and in many cases acting as his own worst enemy.
This is among the best-selling sports books of all time, and follows the 1985-86 Indiana Hoosiers basketball team and their colorful coach Bobby Knight.Feinstein has since become a fixture on sports talk radio, and a keen observer on sports (especially college basketball and golf).
Knight's reputation has had a couple of changes over the years, one an incident in which his temper got the best of him and he choked a student; but since has been able to resurrect that reputation with a stint at Texas Tech, and still able to be someone that could make commercial appearances as a legendary coach for products like Guitar Hero.This book suffers from time elapsed.
I can't believe I hadn't read Feinstein's book sooner--it is still the best-selling sports book of all time.
I found myself, time and again, wondering just how good the book could have been if a talented writer had had access to Knight for that season.
He's clearly a perennial sportswriter, who gets a book deal once a year or so, so I'm not sure if the genre is lacking talented writers or if Feinstein's access it what gets him book deal after book deal.
It also brought back many memories of my days at IU, watching the basketball team.
I knew coach Knight was always looking out for his players and making sure everybody graduated.
The Feinstein book is hard to process.
His routine descriptions of Knight are so unflattering that it makes us wonder what it really takes to win in college athletics.
In my leadership experiences people don't want games, variable moods, seemingly random emotions or other hard-to-predict behaviors.
People are not motivated because someone is mad at them - I think the positive leadership methods are much more powerful.
It is hard to picture life as a player for Knight.
This book has made me re-evaluate my teaching/coaching methods.
But few people can pinpoint the reason why Knight is the way he is and why he is known as one of the best coaches in college basketball history.
In this book, author John Feinstein was somehow allowed to shadow Knight and the team throughout the year, witnessing both the good and bad with the Indiana Hoosiers.The pinnacle of the book is obviously Knight, trying to help the reader understand this seemingly complicated personality.
But at the heart of the book is a generous coach who will say/do almost anything to help out the “kids” on his team.I found this book pretty interesting, mostly because I went to Indiana University.
This was a very good book. I am a huge basketball fanatic and someday hope I can pursue a coaching career. This book is about a legendary basketball coach named Bob Knight. What I liked most about this book was the in depth explanations of his coaching methods and his in practice actions. I really felt that I could visualize the way he interacted as a coach and a person. This book helped me answer my question for my passion project. It explains how Bob Knight was good, smart player who won a na
It explains how Bob Knight was good, smart player who won a national championship at Ohio state and then later on became a head coach and thrived as a head coach.
Not only does it talk about him being a player and becoming a coach but it talks about his former players and becoming grad assistants and helping Bob Knight and his teams be successful.
I also wish that it went into more depth on his grad assistants and how by themselves being players helped them be better coaches.
I highly recommend reading this book if you like basketball or into leadership qualities.
Long time investigative journalist,John Feinstein, took the ride for an entire season, into March Madness, with Knight and his intrepid Hoosiers.
The genius of this book is that anyone could write an entertaining book about Coach Knight's antics; Feinstein takes a different more seaonsed approach.
He shows the psychological brilliance of this firebrand of a coach.
Feinstein also did not pull any punches or get caught star-struck, in his analysis of Bob Knight's admitted character defects.
You do not even need to be a fan of sports to appreciate this masters class on drawing a character portrait.
Yes, Bob Knight is a jerk.
As a coach Bob Knight used every means at his disposal to make sure that his team played to the maximum of their abilities every second of every game.
Think Lebron is going to coast and lose to Purdue after hearing a speech like this?
With the exception of ultimate competitors like Jordan or Kobe, everyone can use an extra jolt, and Bob Knight is definitely a guy who gave that extra kick in the pants.
A thought provoking book on a basketball season with Bob Knight.
The book pulls no punches as it covers the good, bad, and ugly of Bob Knight.
It's an entertaining read, but what I found most interesting was how the complete context of the story gives added value to what you have heard about Bob Knight.
Regardless, the book is highly enjoyable and provides much to discuss and think about.
A compliment to any book, it's one you could immediately pick back up and re-read and have the same amount of enjoyment as the first time you read it.
An excellent account of one of the best coaching minds in college basketball, Bob Knight.
The reader is able to feel the intensity of his coaching and personality in every page.
You will walk away either appraising him or detesting him.
Many who read this work will become a judge and will give the final sentence.
The world knows the final result of his stay at Indiana University and the consequences that brought him down to being fired.
On one side of the coin is his personality quirks and on the other the success that he brought to Indiana basketball.
Today, though, social media has made the behind-the-scenes stuff in this book relatively mainstream.
I applaud Bob Knight for allowing Feinstein to follow him around for a year - that takes guts, especially if he was going to act the way he did.
There are parts of Bob Knight's coaching philosophy that I admire - his emphasis on academics, for example - but I also think he's as much of a jerk as basketball fans profess.
The author did a good job of portraying Knight as a good person, too, which he clearly was, but at the end of the book, I really had to wonder, "Why would anyone willingly play for this guy?"
John Feinstein has shared many great things that I didn't know about Indiana basketball.
I loved the Indiana Hoosiers.
I wish I could see Bob Knight coach my team.
It is just before the Indiana Hoosiers have started there season.
They have been having some trouble though.
Some players are having rouble with getting to class.
Also some players are having trouble with the NCAA if they the team wants to red shirt them there freshman year.
Each team can only have a certain amount of players red shirt each season.
If someone is interested in basketball then they should read this.
All the traditions and routines were very fascinating and bring the reader closer to what is going on.After reading this book, one gets the impression that Bob Knight is a man who, although he has issues with controlling his temper and actions, cares very much about his players and program and simply wants to get the very best out of the young men who play for him.
Although you do not necessarily need to know much about basketball to enjoy this book, it probably helps a bit during the passages about the finer points of the game.
Really could have been called "A Tale of Two Knights".
The out of control, chair throwing Knight, and the Knight who is as loyal to his friends, players, and others who are courteous approaching him.
This was one of the few Feinstein non fiction books I haven't read.
I have to admit part of the reason was how I felt about Bobby Knight.
Sometimes I liked him and sometimes he irritated me.
But I really did enjoy this book.
As a former ref I would never want to work his games.
But his players probably felt the same playing for him.
I'm biased in my review because I'm a Hoosier and an Indiana university graduate.
I grew up watching the Hoosiers on tv along with The General.
I always considered him a hot head that made the university look bad.
Having said that I really enjoyed his book.
Bob Knight was incredibly mean and derogatory to his players but at the same time once you were in the club he was extremely loyal and your best friend.
The only complaint I have with he writing is the author's spoiling some of the games by telling you the outcome before finishing the description of what happened.
He did this several times.
Excellent book!
Although this is a decent look into the ups and downs of college basketball with one of the most winning and polarizing coaches ever, it fell short for me with too much focus on the mood swings of Bob Knight and too little involvement in the development and progress of the student athletes.
I lost count of how many times I read that "Steve Alford was just Steve Alford" for a wrap up on one of the great players of the game and then have minimal insight into his reactions to the coach's tirades.
Knight is an ass and intimidates at least as much as he coaches.
And I not only dislike college basketball, I am completely ignorant of it.
The only reason I read this book was because I heard the author interviewed on a nationally-syndicated radio show and found him to be an engaging storyteller.
Since he was promoting the re-release of this book on its 25th anniversary, I thought I might like to read his writing.
It's a tribute to John Feinstein's story-telling ability that I hung in there to the end.
If you like college basketball, then you'll probably love this book.
And love him or hate him, the subject matter makes for a good tell-all.
