https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/594612.Dorothy_Parker_Stories
Com uma vida perfeita; o emprego, a casa, a esposa, os filhos...A amante que engravida e é despachada para bem longe...O cão, que afinal é uma cadela e, por isso, abandonada...Arrepiante!Quem nunca conheceu, ou ouviu falar dos Mr. Durant desta vida?
Que Pena - o casal que já não tem, nem nunca teve nada para conversar.
Sentimentalismo - uma mulher abandonada, que recorda, até à alucinação, o passado que viveu com o seu amante.É extraordinária a forma como a autora, através de um monólogo, consegue desnudar a alma de uma mulher em sofrimento por um amor perdido..
It's odd to me that I never read a Dorothy Parker story until last August. I read this book not all the way through, but every few months I would pick it up before falling asleep. A brilliant stylist. Still, I think I prefer other writers of that period a tad more. Robert Benchley comes to mind, but mostly due to his sense of surrealism than anything else. Parker is very journalistic in her apporach to the narrative. And the wit is... well one can't be better.
Classificação: 3,5Alguns contos interessantes, principalmente os iniciais, mas outros um pouco enfadonhos.
Ouvi falar pela primeira vez da Dorothy Parker num podcast do The New Yorker (a "bíblia" anglo-saxónica do conto) e fiquei logo muito interessado.
Pesquisei um pouco e descobri que a Dorothy Parker era considerada uma das grandes contistas do século XX.
Trata-se de um conjunto de excelentes contos, muitíssimo bem escritos, muito serenos e perspicazes, com um sentido de humor e de crítica social sempre presente, mas muito subtil.
São pequenas histórias, quase sempre de mulheres, sobre pequenas coisas aparentemente irrelevantes, apontamentos do dia a dia, um telefonema, uma visita social, sem finais inesperados, moralistas ou empolgantes, mas que nos deixam a pensar ou a sentir um doce prazer de viver.
I read 5 of the stories in this book:Big BlondThe Telephone CallYou Were Perfectly FineThe Last TeaLittle CurtisI enjoyed "Big Blond", "You Were Perfectly Fine" and "Little Curtis" the most.
I think Parker said about everything she wanted to say in "Big Blond" (aging blond surfing through life via men and booze) but I really enjoyed "You Were Perfectly Fine", too (the morning after a night out partying, a couple discusses the foibles of the night prior.
As the woman tells the man all the horrible things he did the night before, she keeps saying "You were perfectly fine!" when it was horrifyingly obvious that he was NOT.
Dorothy Parker (1893 – 1967) was quite famous as a founding member of the Algonquin Round Table during the 1920s, along with a career as a critic and short story writer.
This collection of her stories is quite representative of her best work, which can hold its own with the work of any other short story author; while many of her stories are set in the 1920s, they are not dated.
I adore Dorothy Parker, adore adore adore. Whether it's such an agreeable edge of things as in "The Short Story, Through The Ages", or an apropos nod to Tolstoy's "All happy families are alike..." as in "The Wonderful Old Gentleman", the racist's "I swear I'm not racist, but" as in "Arrangement In Black and White", the heartbreaking saga of "Horsie", or the fit of laughter that accompanies "The Waltz" or "The Little Hours"; Parker's just GOT it. It's human and you can see it, one of the best combinations I can look for in a read.
Dorothy Parker is so clever, and with such a great point of view. It is simultaneously fun to laugh at the idiots she writes about, and embarrassing to see yourself in them.
Loved this. Parker was a killer observer of people. Reading these stories, you can see yourself in some of the characters, and definitely not in a good way; it's more like when you think you look good and someone takes a photo of you and it's all wrong. Terrible angle, you're washed out, and the smile you practiced so hard is a little on the gummy side. Yeah, it's like that feeling. Parker didn't miss a thing.
I keep thinking about that thing where, if Dorothy Parker had been on Twitter, she would have been cancelled in under a day. That was... exactly how I felt reading her short stories. One of them is delightful and canny. Ten in a row and you start to think, 'good lord, don't you ever write about anything new??'
Most of these stories were too cynical to be truly funny - they were the kind of funny that makes you squirm a little because it’s too close to the truth of life. “The Waltz” And “The Little Hours” are two of the funniest things I’ve ever read in my life! They deserve all the stars!
This is just the point with The Waltz-When people are happiest, time gains another dimention, it seems that hours are like minutes.In the case of this excrutiating Waltz, the reverse is true: it seems that the dance lasts for ever, but this is because the exoerience is so unfortunate.The story is considered a protest against conventions, this is what I found looking to find a bit more about The Waltz.But if I am to draw a conclusion, it would be from a positive psychology perspective and perhaps an utilitarian philosophy point of view- people should not waste their time with people they dislike, doing things they hate.Life is about enjoying, doing „Flow”activities, expressing gratitude and coping with adversity.
I loved this, obviously. The back of the book calls her 'one of the 20th century's greatest wits' and that's accurate. I loved the stories that are essentially long, meandering monologues for some of life's most recognisable characters.
Despite being written in a very different time and place, a lot of the stories still read true today. I've had some of these conversations. The slang might be different, but the underlying relationships haven't changed that much.
There is a strain of melancholy running through these satirical stories. Though some have aged, the unsure, jealous, or callous dialogues between young couples could be overheard in a contemporary bar. Plus ca change...
My favorite story in the collection is Big Blonde.
This book is extremely witty and fun to read! -From Rory Gilmore's Reading List
Una escritora imprescindible en el ámbito del relato corto que refleja muy bien la sociedad de su época.
not as funny as it must have been 40 years agothough rather skillfull writing of one-sided conversations a la bob newhartquality voice acting
