https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3876.The_Sun_Also_Rises
What I learned from this book (in no particular order): 1. Jews are stubborn.2. Being a Jew in Princeton sucks.3. Being impotent sucks, especially if you are in love with a beautiful woman.4. A beautiful woman is built with curves like the hull of a racing boat. Women make swell friends.5. If you suffer from domestic abuse, the best way to work it out is by going through as many men as possible in the shortest time, and then discard them like wet tissues once you’re done --- if you happen to be
Being impotent sucks, especially if you are in love with a beautiful woman.4.
If you suffer from domestic abuse, the best way to work it out is by going through as many men as possible in the shortest time, and then discard them like wet tissues once you’re done --- if you happen to be pretty enough to attract scores of them, that is.6.
Spain sucks, except for the bullfighting.
Hic.Hemingway might have perfectly captured the Lost Generation’s times, but he also succeeded in inducing a profound ennui in me, especially during the long stretches in which the characters (none who is terribly interesting to begin with) do nothing except drink (“I’m a little tight you know.
A man I did not know walked up to my table and said to the waiter “No one in Key West is to stop drinking alcohol while they are conscious, you know the rules Manuel!
I said and held up my glass of ice water to the stranger, then put it to my lips and drank.
Besides I don’t think it will be long before you fall on your ass.” I said, I drank some water, it was cold.
Please don’t hurt me.”Manuel walked back to the table caring the bottle of Champagne and two glasses.
The Sun Also Rises tells the story of Jake Barnes, an ex-patriate living in Paris.
Jake is a journalist, apparently haunted by the war, and he spends his time drinking in Paris.
We went through the forest and the road came out and turned along a rise of land, and out ahead of us was a rolling green plain, with dark mountains beyond it.
The best part of the book is the last lines, uttered by Jake Barnes: "Isn't it pretty to think so." I'll leave it to you to determine its meaning.
Where are your descriptions, where is the emotion??"And he would say something like, "The lack of complex descriptions helps focus on the complexities and emptiness of the characters' lives, and the emotion is there, it's only just beneath the surface, struggling to be free!"And I'd say, "OK, I'll move ya from a C to C+."Basically The Sun Also Rises shows that Hemingway liked bullfights a lot more than most of the people reading his books, and that he was vain but also hated himself.
They were hanging out in America, trying to make it.
The first time I read this, I loved Lady Brett Ashley.
And it might be argued that she has reason to be one: her first true love dies in the war from dysentery (not exactly the most noble of deaths) and she's physically threatened by Lord Ashley, forced to sleep on the floor beside him and his loaded gun (and let's clarify that,no, that's not a euphemism, just in case you're a perv).
However, upon rereading the novel, I realized how eclipsed Jake had been by Brett during my first reading.
If there's anyone with reason to give up on life, it's Jake.
My feelings haven't changed since my last re-read of The Sun Also Rises (my earlier review is below).
I don't think The Sun Also Rises is for everyone; however, nearly from beginning to end, I'm engaged in the story.
Just finished a re-read of The Sun Also Rises (my favorite Hemingway book-last read in 2014).
However, it is the mood Hemingway creates in this novel which really engages me.
In some ways, the carefree expat life of the characters seems idyllic; however, Hemingway also makes you feel that slipping into this existence (even with its charms) might make you want to spit at the world.
No matter what I feel while reading The Sun Also Rises, it is Hemingway's richest novel for me.
And sometimes feel it was written by me (I surely wish it was).Hemingway's language, his characterizations, his love for all the people he writes about (no matter how unsavory they may be), his love of women and men, his empathy with the pain people feel in life and love, his touch with locale, his integration of sport as metaphor and setting, his getting everything just right with nothing out of place and nothing superfluous, all of this makes The Sun Also Rises his most important novel.It is the Hemingway short story writ large.
I often wonder why that is, and the conclusion I come to is this: The Sun Also Rises is too real, too true, too painful for the average reader to stomach.
I think there is something cheesey about reviewing an old book, but I felt I had to write something, as I constructed my senior thesis in college with this book as the cornerstone, I have read it at least six times, and I consider The Sun Also Rises to be the Great American Novel.
He is just a touch wordy).2) The Sun Also Rises describes (among other things) disillusionment with the "American Way" and what that had come to mean (especially emphasized through the walking wounded, contrasted always with previous generations' "Dulce et decorum est pro patria more" mentality).
Read The Sun Also Rises, then The Great Gatsby, then Eliot's The Wasteland.
So I drank it, cursing Hemingway the entire time and wishing I could dig his body up and reanimate him so I could give him another shotgun blast to the face for ever putting the idea of drinking that vile stuff into my head in the first place.Oh, and that night, I had some of the most fucked up nightmares I’ve had in years so maybe the hallucinogenic qualities weren’t exaggerated all that much.So when I was re-reading The Sun Also Rises and Jake gets completely hammered on absinthe, I almost tossed my cookies as the memory of that black licorice flavored corpse came back to me.
THIS BOOK IS ABOUT A MAN IN SPAIN HE GETS FRIENDZONED.
From here Jake and Bill go to Burguete to do some fly fishing while Robert Cohn returns to San Sebastián to await Brett and fiancé, Mike.
After returning to the café Mike refers to Cohn as a steer for the mute worshiping manner in which he follows Brett around.
Though it seems to me a key part of the novel in this sense: Jake, after a painful meeting with Brett back in Paris, after which he wept, seems for the moment to have let her go.
Instantly the peasants worship Brett like some kind of Madonna.
So Hemingway writes that the nice churches located in Spain are like nice Spanish churches.
I know that many people find this book to be their favorite of Hemingway, but without much action, where is the pleasure?
This is because the book is set during the Spanish Civil War. I even enjoyed the imitation Castilian Spanish, and needlessly translated dialogue; I felt that Hemingway had achieved a tone that befit the old-time feel of its characters and story, but without much of anything happening in The Sun Also Rises, I can’t say that this would be worth your time.One last thing, to tie in the review’s title.
Since I returned home this time, a couple of weeks ago, I can’t stop thinking about my friends in this book and their fiesta.
I’m still mad about it, even though, of course, I finished the book when I got home to my printed copy.I should probably tell you about how much I love the men in this book.
I mostly wanted to tell you about how I love vacations and hate coming back from them, and how it is always just like in the book.
She's been really nice, you know.""Who?""Are you up for drinks later?""Of course.""You see Andrew yet?""No and I haven't heard him all summer." "Me neither.
Doesn't surprise me.""Yeah.""Will be good seeing him again.""Yes."He continued to read and I went back up my room.
What are you having?""Kilkenny."My stomach ached."What about you, Matt?""Yeah, same thing."David went to the bar to order.
"Cheers, guys.""Hey David, did you read Fiesta?""Hemingway?
I'm reading the last pages of Fiesta."Isn't it pretty to think so?"I close the book and put it on my night table.
I turn off my lamp and get ready to sleep."Going to sleep already?""Yeah, pretty tired.""Did you finish your book?""Yeah.""Was it any good?""It was excellent.""Nice.
This is essentially a 200+ page drinking game which features a group of people who don't need to work for a living getting tipsy and talkative. It's not awful, but compared to the other two Hemingway novels I've listened to - (The Old Man and the Sea, and A Farewell to Arms) - this one seems rather dull and pointless. Indeed, the only real pleasure I got out of this audio version was the fact that it was read by William Hurt. He does a fantastic drunken Irishman, PLUS, it was a joy picturing him as Jake Barnes.
The Sun Also Rises, Ernest Hemingway’s brilliant 1926 novel about the Lost Generation is a must read for Twentieth Century literature.I was assigned this as a junior in college, our English professor told us to read it and to be prepared to talk next week.
Literature would never be the same again.Complex and told on many levels, this also contains some of the most archetypal characters in all of modern literature, highlighted by the inimitable Lady Brett.
Dangerous and contrary to Hemingway’s ideals of masculine superiority, Lady Brett Ashley would be recreated somewhat in his later story “The Short Happy Life of Frances Macomber."
“Don't you ever get the feeling that all your life is going by and you're not taking advantage of it?
Do you realize you've lived nearly half the time you have to live already?" "Yes, every once in a while." "Do you know that in abou thirty- five more years we'll be dead?" "What the hell, Robert," I said.
"What the hell." "I'm serious." "It's one thig I don't worry about," I said.
I'm through worrying." "Well, I want to go to South America." "Listen, Robert, going to another country doesn't make any difference.
While I was reading this I thought time and again about a quote from another book.This one: Mrs. Poe“That’s it!” I dropped the magazine.“What Mamma?” asked Vinnie“This silly alliteration – it’s clinkering, clattering claptrap.”Ellen’s face was as straight as a judge’s on court day.
“It’s exasperating, excruciating excrement.”As I am sure you’ve guessed they are not discussing Hemingway.I had just come off reading The Paris Wife If ever there was a time for Hemingway to shine for me.
Yes, impeccable and precise prose.
Yes, a superstar writer.
Yes, I hadn't read it before, but that's totally okay.
Somehow, I couple this quaint piece--most of the characters are blah because they belong to that blah generation, I mean, what to do if not fight in war?--with the monstrously intolerable novel by Malcolm Lowry, "Under the Volcano." But thank god this one has the European charm that is all but ridiculed in Lowry's take on some similarly lost days in Mexico.
Here are some lost days in Paris, then some in Spain in Pamplona; I rather favor travelogues and valentine-to-(insert place other than home here) books, but the aimlessness, while pretty and underscored symbolically to feelings of hopelessness and totally melancholic disconnects, is rather-- um...uneventful?
It is interesting, yes.
The Sun Also Rises, Ernest HemingwayThe Sun Also Rises is a 1926 novel written by American author Ernest Hemingway about a group of American and British expatriates who travel from Paris to the Festival of San Fermín in Pamplona to watch the running of the bulls and the bullfights. An early and enduring modernist novel, it received mixed reviews upon publication. تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه اکتبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خورشید همچنان میدمد؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: همایون مقدم؛ 1333، د
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز بیستم ماه اکتبر سال 2012 میلادیعنوان: خورشید همچنان می‌دمد؛ نویسنده: ارنست همینگوی؛ مترجم: همایون مقدم؛ 1333، در 242 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، سازمان کتابهای جیبی، 1340؛ در 263 ص؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی - سده 20 ممترجم: عرفان قانعی فرد؛ تهران، نگاه سبز، 1379؛ در 243 ص؛ مترجم: احسان لامع؛ تهران، نگاه، 1389؛ در 308 ص؛ شابک: 9789643515683؛خورشید همچنان می‌دمد، نخستین رمان درخشان، از نگاره های: «ارنست همینگوی» بوده که ایشان را، در جایگاه: نویسنده‌ ای بزرگوار، دارای سبک، و از برجسته‌ ترین رمان‌نویسان روزگار خود، استوار کرده است.
I could read chapters 3 and 4 of this book every day for the rest of my life and not get tired of them because of how much I love the dialogue and the character interactions.
And I just love the chemistry between Jake and Brett.
Brett is a beautiful, sophisticated woman who, on the surface is the outgoing sort who eats up her wild party life and loves the attention it brings her.
She loves to be doted on and seems to live her life like she must be out and about at all times, doing fun things.
There's real love in this story.
This is my favorite Hemingway novel, maybe because it was my first. The Sun Also Rises was to Hemingway what The Great Gatsby was to Fitzgerald.
[…] We walked along Port Royal until it became Montparnasse, and then on past the Lilas, Lavigne's, and all the little cafés, Damoy's, crossed the street to the Rotonde, past its lights and tables to the Select.You could read this book with Google Maps open in front of you; in fact you often feel that's what Hemingway wants.
"'The Sun Also Rises' is about bullfighting, bullslinging and bullshit."  Zelda Fitzgerald[[3.4 stars]]2d from left is British socialite Duff Twysden (on whom "Lady Brett Ashley" was based), and next to her is Hadley Richardson, Hemingway's 1st wifeOn my mission over the past 8 years to read all "classics," this one strikes me the least.The novel is apparently held in high esteem now for Hemingway's style than for the story's substance, which is a bit dated by its reliance on the people, places
Zelda Fitzgerald[[3.4 stars]]2d from left is British socialite Duff Twysden (on whom "Lady Brett Ashley" was based), and next to her is Hadley Richardson, Hemingway's 1st wifeOn my mission over the past 8 years to read all "classics," this one strikes me the least.The novel is apparently held in high esteem now for Hemingway's style than for the story's substance, which is a bit dated by its reliance on the people, places and things of the mid-1920s.
And, Hemingway was applauded for creating such a feminist leading lady.The novel, a roman à clef based on the lives of Hemingway and a few of his friends, follows protagonist Jake, a vet rendered impotent by a war injury, and his writer/artiste/riche set of pals, one of whom is female, Lady Brett Ashley.
The bored, the disenchanted, the wandering wondering and/or nearly thoughtless (except for where their next drink will come from) ex-pat characters, these borderline socialites fighting off ennui, of Hemingway's The Sun Also Rises do very little worth reading about and yet read you do.
Blame it on the author's clean writing style or his choice of scenes, choosing to paint with poignant words almost documentary style clips of cultural happenings that still excites even in this television/internet era.
Hemingway's spartan style and story, which could just as easily have been called And Things Happen should be a recipe for disaster, but instead, you have a classic.
Such a boring book.
I get that Hemingway captures the decadence and dissolution of the Lost Generation.
I get that his writing style brings to mind adjectives like "sparse" and "blunt" and "elegiac." But I do not get how to find enjoyment from such a repetitive book that glamorizes violence, excessive drinking, outdated forms of masculinity, homophobia, and antisemitism.
I also cannot forgive his monotonous and mind-numbing prose.
As I said in another review, if an author without Hemingway's name tried to get by with this style of writing, I doubt they would succeed.
Don't get me wrong, I like Ernest Hemingway (see The Old Man and the Sea and A Moveable Feast), but he's definitely an acquired taste, and I can only read his books once in a while.
Not a single word gets wasted, but this also means that his books have a pace that can best be described as "plodding." For example: "In the morning it was bright, and they were sprinkling the streets of the town, and we all had breakfast in a cafe.
It is like a very clean Spanish town and it is on a big river.
I gave this one star because I wasn't old enough to drink or really enjoy much of anything when I first read it, and I haven't read it again since.I'm almost certain I'd still hate it though.
“She takes her razor from her boot, and a thousand pigeons fall around her feet” –Tom WaitsThere’s a lot of funny drinking talk and bar stories in this book that begin to wear on you over time, as they will and should, as Hem would have you experience it, as you learn to pay attention to the underlying tensions between various men over their fatal attraction to this strikingly attractive 34-year old woman: Jake, our American journalist Hem-based hero, injured “down there” during the war—they would be lovers but he can’t consummate their love, and sex is part of the regular daily diet of Brett; Mike, her Scottish fiancé; Bill, Jake’s American fishing buddy; Robert Cohn, the writer and amateur boxer whose skills in the latter figure in a scene we build toward the whole book, and Pedro Romero, a 19-year old bull fighter, with a true aficion for bullfighting, and, as it turns out, older women.
A poignant novel that evokes (among others) a problem of the thorniest: male impotence and painful consequences, here, drowned in alcohol.Drama in three acts, the sun also rises is its first branch in the night Paris Latin Quarter where cross Jacob Barnes says Jake (the narrator), American war wounded, unhappy hero constantly drunk, Lady Brett Ashley dubbed Brett "damn good", "made that curves"; Robert Cohn "in the money in their pockets", writer and ex-boxing champ and others who cheerfully toast of "Neapolitan" at Café Select "and the Hotel Crillon" to their little home.The nodes of anxiety weave inexorable.Alcohol, sometimes nasty, cruel fate its claws, while this "bitch" Brett, a divorce, to marry "good old" Mike, like this "pimp" and "old boozer" Jake (who wants it all be except "aunt") platonic, loving the then pushes, Cohn cheating on him with "the dirty Jew" and then takes to "crush" for a young bullfighter Pedro Romero whose "absolute purity of line" moves the excited.Love sometimes saves from violence red bull's blood but as Jake says the depths of despair: "It's true, but it always ends there."An excellent novel that descends into the depths of human consciousness.
