https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324325.Greek_Gods_and_Heroes
Esto, no solo es un libro de mitologia griega para dummys, esta escrito por uno.Sin palabras, una imagen lo dice todo:
2'5Si no conoces la mitología griega y quieres saber si te gusta, está muy bien. Pero si ya te suenan los principales mitos y personajes, es demasiado introductorio.
One thing that seems to have been missed by many of the previous reviewers is that this book was written to be accessible to children (as well as adults).
The stories are told in a simple, engaging style, well suited to a children's book, without ever being patronising - which is quite a feat for an historian of Graves' standing.This could be read alone by children from about 8 years or be read by an adult to even younger children.
Como introducción muuuy introductoria a la mitología griega está requetebién. Te enteras un poco de todo pero no profundiza en nada, tocará investigar más sobre el tema porque había mil cosas que desconocía y me han sorprendido para bien.
A really interesting read into ancient Greek culture and how their portrayal of the Olympians was far from our westernised ideal of a benevolent God. Zeus is portrayed as having a base character and epitomised by instincts such as spite, retribution, aggression, power, lust etc.
I found myself picturing some of the characters as I’d read and watched Percy Jackson and so I realised that what this book is missing is the emotional attachment to the stories; they are very descriptive and academic but lack heart and therefore I found myself drowning in a sea of foreign names like I was back in Middle Earth.
Leyendo estas historias acerca de las disputas familiares y líos amorosos de los dioses griegos, nos enteramos de la mitología más hermosa de la historia como quien ve un programa de televisión.
Su estilo lúdico, gracioso, atrayente, provoca saber más y más de la historia mitológica griega, y nos revela sorprendentes detalles gracias a los cuales entendemos de dónde muchos de los términos actuales, que usamos día a día, y que a partir de este libro se dotan de una maravillosa aura mitológica.
Si no tienen de qué hablar en las fiestas, lean este libro.
En esa búsqueda infinita del ser humano por entender lo desconocido y lo que lo atemoriza, por darle
La narración no era mala, en su mayoría. Sin embargo, es un libro muy pobre que, a duras penas, puede valer como introducción al mundo de la mitología griega. La labor de investigación no parece haber pasado más allá de la visita a Wikipedia. Además, querer meter un número tan alto de historias en tan poco espacio las simplifica tanto que no hay absolutamente nada de profundidad en ninguna de ellas.
Le daría 3,5 estrellas pero goodreads sigue con su sistema paleolítico jaja. En fin, es un buen libro para adentrarse en la mitología griega (o si tienes doce años y tu madre censura tus lecturas), pero si ya la conoces y encima te gusta...se queda bastante corto.
Tuve que buscar árboles genealógicos y usar mis mapas de la antigua Grecia, lo que me dio un buen ejercicio de búsqueda de información de fuentes, tengo una duda respecto a Promete, que tendré que investigar más a fondo y no me gusto mucho que omitiera a Aquiles.
I liked it.
This book is a summary of a number of Greek Myths told in short stories.
Some of the stories included in the book are: - The Palace of Olympus: This story introduces the reader to a number of Greek Gods and Goddesses.
- The Giant's Rebellion: How the Olympians, with the help of Hercules, fought against the Giants who rebelled.There are additional stories in these pages that cover a lot of Greek mythology.
This was a pretty good book that gives a good summation of these myths.
I would recommend this book to people who like reading about mythology.


This book is about all the different Gods, Goddesses, and Heroes of ancient Greece and what they all did or could do. It talks about the Greek Gods and Heroes in maybe a different way than most would. It provides varying information but it has a few loopholes. It is believable but dont try to compare it to other books. It was written as more of an introduction to these gods and heroes so keep that in mind as you read it. I would recommend this book to someone who wanted to learn a little bit abo
This book is about all the different Gods, Goddesses, and Heroes of ancient Greece and what they all did or could do.
It talks about the Greek Gods and Heroes in maybe a different way than most would.
It was written as more of an introduction to these gods and heroes so keep that in mind as you read it.
I would recommend this book to someone who wanted to learn a little bit about the Greek gods and heroes, but if you wanted a more in depth and explanatory book, this is not the book for you.
This book was written by the Gods themselves-- the way it's written and the way the stories are spoken through the written words they were working with Robert at the time of him writing this book.
The love is there in each page to assist in the understanding of each God, Goddess and hero.
Every story is short and consise and makes it easy to follow if you read with intense interest and passion.
After reading this my entire life has taken a turn for the better.
There is unwritten magic within these pages.
Choose this book for a brief, sanitized (only so much sanitation is possible, but it's intended to be appropriate for children) review of the main stories of the gods and goddesses of ancient Greece. The chapters are short and clearly indicate the contents. An index helps there as well.
Una joya que se hace corta corta
Lagan i instant uvod u grčku mitologiju. Koristan kao brz pregled, ali naravno izostavlja mnoge detalje.
Take this one, on Sisyphus:'As soon as he got the stone almost to the top, it never failed to bound down with mighty leaps, and he had to begin all over again, exhausted though he was by his continual efforts.' (28)The text and the world which it depicts are clear and direct throughout.
Graves is confident in his account of things, even though one can find different versions of most of the people and events concerned.
These are not parables for children, but enigmatic poetic images.The opening chapter, depicting Olympus, is the best, and the book seems to grow weary of itself as it approaches the end.
A fun, fun read!
Graves fills the tales with wit and plain good prose.
The first tale describes the palace where the major gods live and the major gods and their basic characteristics.
Once the stage is set you find yourself reading about major gods and their adventures, minor gods and their conflicts with humans, each other and the major gods.
As one reads through tales, you find yourself laughing and just plain enjoying these tales.
Of course, most of the tales are just plain unbelievable but that makes it all the more enjoyable.
Pero esa misma brevedad y concisión se convierte en un inconveniente para quien, como yo, esperaba un relato más elaborado y ameno basado en los mitos griegos.
Sí, esta obra da una buena visión general de la mitología griega, y se convierte en una guía de referencia rápida para consultar cualquiera de estos mitos en cualquier momento (aunque para ello un buen complemento hubiera sido un glosario de nombres, una especie de referencia genealógica de los personajes).
Pero no es un libro cuya lectura se pueda disfrutar realmente, como yo esperaba.
Quizás esperaba más de un autor como Robert Graves… Aún así, interesante de leer como culturilla general.
At the library, I looked for a book containing a solid Greek mythology overview, and this was the best one I found.
Regardless, this book does provide ample information for a reader to gain a foundational knowledge of the most famous Greek myths.However, something about the writing style bothered me.
Can't quite identify the cause (maybe it seemed juvenile?), but I found myself getting exasperated with it at times.(Didn't finish reading because it was a library book, and I got tired of renewing it.
That I didn't finish such a short book is probably telling in and of itself.)
This is almost like reading a crib sheet for Greek Gods and Heroes.
Each tale told is done with the barest minimum of hyperbole which is great if you want to dip into a story to remind yourself of salient facts and avoids some of he bloviated and over complicated descriptions some other have.
To the bone in fact.
Over all a good starting place for people unfamiliar with Greek mythology but if you want to read an entertaining story there are better options.
Greek Gods and Heroes by Robert GravesThe book Greek gods and Heroes is the mixture of some of the story though out Greek mythology.
A part i like is the the author tried to keep the mystical fell the the mythology but still using his own words.
I would say that this book is for people that like the stories of the ancient Greek.
Está bien. No es el mejor libro de mitología griega pero sirve como una introducción básica (muy, muy, básica) aunque me parece mal redactada. Algunas partes (como la de Jasón y el vellocinio de oro) no quedan totalmente claras, por lo que es recomendable leer otros libros además de las tragedias clásicas para ampliar el conocimiento de los mitos griegos.BTW, Cefeo y Casiopea solo los menciona como los padres de Andrómeda así que no debería nombrarlos en el último capítulo, lo hace solo para mencionar más constelaciones. Quiere terminar su libro de manera "épica".I see you Robert Graves.
A Young Adult book by poet, novelist and historian Robert Graves, published in 1960. A fast read and a good review of the main stories of Greek mythology. Are you up on all the following stories? 1. Demeter's Lost Daughter 2. The Titans 3. Orpheus 4. Deucalion's Flood 5. Orion 6. Asclepius 7. King Midas 8. Melampus & Phylacus 9. Europa & Cadmus 10. Daedalus 11. Bellerophon 12. Theseus 13. Heracles 14. Jason 15. Alcestis 16. Perseus 17. Atalanta 18. The Seven Against Thebes
Un buen libro para saber un poco sobre los dioses y heroes (personajes) de la mitología griega.Ciertamente las historias en el libro son muy ligeras y sin dar tantos detalles sobre cada una de las leyendas por lo cual te da una "amplía" visión de toda la mitología griega pero sin saber realmente mucho.Ahora que he terminado de leer este libro, me queda la curiosidad de profundizar un poco mas sobre las leyendas aqui contadas.Sin duda... un libro que sirve como entrada al mundo de la mitología griega.

I picked this up at the Strand for 50 cents because I keep telling myself I'm going to review the Greek and Roman Gods/myths.I kind of jumped around with this. It wasn't really what I wanted. It's trying to make the myths sound kind of soap-opera-y, I guess to be more palatable? but I find it off-putting. The myths are operatic, I just wanted the stories told in a straight-forward manner, not jumbled and told as if Aphrodite is some hot cheerleader.
