https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1016156.The_Mystery_of_the_Moaning_Cave
My first ever "Three Investigators" mystery - and I fell in love with the team.
(Ironically, I had originally thought that Hitchcock wrote these mysteries, which is why I bought them!
I especially loved Jupiter, like I loved Fatty of the Five Find-outers, because of the physical resemblance to teenage me.I do not remember much about the story other than the ghost of a dead Mexican bandido; but I remember that the mystery was quite complicated and much more satisfying than the ones produced by Enid Blyton, which I had started to find simplistic by then.
I love this series!
Another great mystery starring the teenage sleuths.
In this one, we find the boys at a ranch trying to find out what's been scaring all the ranch hands away.
I was shocked we didn't see another boy their own age around, as that has been a staple of the series, but this time it was mostly just the main three.I will say the ending was slightly predictable, as I had figured out who the real bad guy was fairly early.
That being said, there were still several twists and turns in the story and I was still surprised at some of the happenings.Overall, another good volume!
Novela de la serie infantil "Alfred Hitchcock y Los Tres Investigadores", leída para un reto. Me ha llevado a mi infancia, en la que devoré esta serie (y aún debe haber algún volumen en alguna caja almacenada).Así como otros libros de mi infancia, leídos ahora, los he encontrado totalmente desfasados y anodinos; estos, creo que han envejecido mejor...salvando las distancias.
The first novel I ever read! A lot of kids/teens start with the Hardy Boys/Nancy Drew stuff but I always felt The Three Investigators series to be more interesting.
The first non-Arthur book (he gets the credit, William Arden wrote it), this is well-written, clever and full of atmosphere - well worth a read.2013 re-read - My 2009 review stands but I’d just add that Arden makes great use of locations, especially Moaning Valley and Santa Carla (an invention of Arden’s, though the name was re-used in “The Lost Boys”) and actual historic figures - Father Junípero Serra and John C.
Good fun, with a terrific atmosphere and great pace, this is a cracking read.2018 re-read - A cracking read, great pace, some nice interplay between the lads and a great sense of location.
Goa ini oleh penduduk lokal diyakini dulunya jadi tempat persembunyian El Diablo, seorang perampok yang baik hati terhadap masyarakat miskin.Sewaktu tinggal di rumah Mr. Dalton, Trio detektif mendapat informasi bahwa raungan dari dalam goa ini sejak sebulan sebelumnya terdengar lagi.
Dari penyelidikan yang beberapa kali sempat mengancam jiwa mereka, Trio Detektif akhirnya menemukan bahwa Ben dan waldo telah menemukan intan di goa tersebut yang merupakan hasil curian dari seorang penjahat bernama Schmidt.
Ketika lorong goa tersebut ditutup, suara itu tdk muncul dan sebaliknya.Buku ini merupakan cerita ringan dengan alur sederhana sehingga pembaca tidak bisa berharap ada banyak pesan moral didalamnya.
There were a couple individual character quirks that weren’t quite right, and this felt more like a generic teen mystery than a Three Investigators story.
I was really hoping for more about the Great Old One in the ocean cave, but that pretty much never got paid off.
The way in which the Great Old One was used broke the frame in which these are the actual tales of boys that know Alfred Hitchcock.
But instead we have top secret military exercises whose only inclusion in the story does not advance the narrative, does not explain the historical place of the legend, and instead only gives away national secrets.
The story here relates to an eerie moaning sound coming from a cave and some recent accidents happening in and around the ranch located near this cave.
A thrilling story with characters full of eerieness and suspicion makes it an exciting read till the last page.
How Jupe/Jupiter deduces and reaches final conclusions to unravel the mysteries is always a treat to read.Well, if you've read any book of the series, you know what to expect.
The mystery starts from page one without any delay.
It's always been a pleasure reading the Three Investigators.
I don't think I read The Mystery of the Moaning Cave until I started collecting the books a few years back.The series was created, and set up, by Robert Arthur.
I'd thought he wrote the first ten in the series, but that isn't so; this book is the tenth, and it was written by William Arden.
(The 11th was Robert Arthur's last book in the series.)Given that Arden is probably my second-favorite of the authors who wrote T3I books, I was mildly surprised that I didn't like this one very much.
Buch der Originalreihe ist, die ich alle nach einander lese, und ich mich jetzt schon mehr in den altmodischen Stil eingelesen habe.
Aber diese Anmerkungen des Erzählers, die einem immer erklären oder Fragen stellen, finde ich zum Beispiel einfach nur nervig.
Leider war das das einzige ???-Buch, das ich mit in den Urlaub genommen habe, dabei wäre es so eine gute Chance gewesen, meinem Freund einen meiner Lieblingsfälle unter die Nase zu halten.
Anstelle dessen, hat er mir lang und breit erklärt, wie unlogisch der Fall war und mir das Buch sogar noch ein Stückchen mehr vermiest (weil er nämlich leider recht hat).
** Books 166 - 2016 **3,1 dari 5 bintang! Dulu suka sekali dengan kisah lima sekawannya enid Blyton dan Alfred Hitchock lalu ketemu buku ini jadi kangen buat ngobatin rindu kepada lima sekawan. Ceritanya biasa saja mengenai kasus gua yang meraung di tengah malam dan diselidiki oleh ketiga detektif muda (Jupiter, Pete dan Bob). Pembunuhnya juga bisa tertebak dengan mudah >__<Favorit saya pastinya Jupiter dong gilaaa analisa dan deduksinya.. Pinter dan jeli banget!Terimakasih iJak untuk peminjaman bukunya
This is the very first 3I book I ever read. After 37 years, it's still a firm favourite. The boys go to the Crooked Y ranch, where the cave in Devil's Mountain has started to moan again after 50 years. They come upon a diamond mine, eccentric old prospectors and a 19th century Mexican bandit. This was the first of several books for the series penned by William Arden, but he emulated the original author's style so well that few readers noticed the difference. A very good story.http://fourdecades.blogspot.com.br/20...
Ijak #4Kurasa inilah pertama kalinya aku membaca cerita Trio Detektif, karena aku tidak ingat pernah membacanya waktu kecil. Ternyata petualangan mereka lumayan seru dan menegangkan juga.Jelas sekali pemimpinnya adalah Jupiter, dia yang paling pintar sehingga dia sangat mendominasi dibanding dua orang temannya yang harus unjuk gigi dengan porsi lebih sedikit. Suka dengan mereka, tapi Jupiter agak songong ini bocah.Dan yeeeiiii pelaku tebakanku benar.
gw suka pada kisah Misteri Gua Raungan ini. Kisahnya cukup mendebarkan dan alur ceritanya enak untuk dibaca.
Moja prvá záhada Troch pátračov. V tomto vydaní, dodnes si pamätám ako som ju dostala, kde na tej kuchynskej v starom petržalskom byte ležala, keď mi ju naši dávali. Potom už som ich čítala v poradí v akom vychádzali v tej "novej" (dnes už starej) verzii. ale pre Stonajúcu jaskyňu budem mať navždy špeciálne miesto. Divoký západ, kovboji, tajné miesta a romantika neznámeho.
A moaning cave, a bandit and a ranch in problems. Another great story
2,5 Sterne
Udah ketebak sih siapa penjahatnya..
AH&T3I Update: 10 read, 18 hardbacks to go!For the first time in the series, someone other than Robert Arthur, Jr wrote the story.
Perhaps moving this story away from Rocky Beach to a resort ranch some distance away so that the boys can experience a little mini-vacation helped make the writer transition a little easier.
Lynds proved to be almost as good, if not just as good, as Robert Arthur when describing a Three Investigators case.
With only one more Robert Arthur title in the series yet for me to read, the smooth transition to Lynds is a comforting one for it signals that the series moves into the capable hands of another good writer.
Dulu, waktu baca Trio Detektif pas SMP, saya kira penulis bukunya Alfred Hitchcok.
Sekarang saya sudah tahu kalau nama penulisnya ternyata Robert Arthur.
Jadi sempat lola ketika membaca nama penulis di buku ini adalah William Arden.
Setelah dilihat-lihat lagi, saya baru lihat tulisan "Based on Characters by Robert Arthur".
*ngangguk-ngangguk*.Terus di bagian terakhir, biasanya kan Trio Detektif melaporkan hasil penyelidikan mereka ke Alfred Hitchcok, nah ini mereka melaporkannya ke Alfred Hitfield.
Oke, saya anggap saja ini karena penulisnya adalah William Arden.
Jadi lumayan seru waktu membaca petualangan Jupiter dan kawan-kawan saat memasuki gua.
Kaget waktu tahu siapa sosok hitam yang dilihat oleh Pete di telaga.
Jupiter Jones, Pete Crenshaw, and Bob Andrews are staying with their friends, the Daltons, on their ranch the Crooked-Y when they become aware that an eerie moaning sound appears to be emanating from a cave on the property.
The Daltons’ ranch hands are quitting – they believe that the moans are being made by a famous Spanish bandito who once roamed the California hills and disappeared in the many caves therein.The Three Investigators don’t believe that the sounds are being caused by a ghost.
But they agree that there is something very mysterious about the eerie wails.
Der Teufelsberg ist eine Folge, die ich nie so richtig "leiden" konnte, obwohl sie spannend, gut durchdacht und mit einem tollen Schluss versehen ist.
Aber genauso wie "die Geisterinsel" oder "der lachende Schatten" habe ich mit dieser Folge nie so richtig die Drei Fragezeichen verbunden; keine Ahnung wieso.Als ich jetzt, als 33jährige, das Buch noch einmal gelesen habe (hören tue ich sie trotz allem immer mal wieder), muss ich meine Meinung ändern.
Auch hier ist Justus die treibende Kraft, wenn es um das Aufklären verzwickter Sachverhalte geht, aber er ist noch nicht so ein blasser Besserwisser, wie er in den neueren Folgen oft dargestellt wird.
Fans of The Lost Boys will recognize the city of Santa Carla in this 1968 young adult thriller by William Arden.
For readers who know California, Santa Carla is roughly Santa Cruz with a little bit of Santa Clara thrown in.In The Mystery of the Moaning Cave, the three investigators decide to solve the mystery behind a recently moaning cave rumored to be the resting place of El Diablo, a Zorro-like figure.
The mystery is complex enough to keep older readers engrossed and straightforward enough to keep the younger readers turning the pages too.This book is the first of the three investigators books I've read.
The first book of the series not written by Robert Arthur, it's a decent mystery and story with some downsides.The boys are suddenly scuba diving and horse riding experts?
This really bothered me, especially the scuba diving part.
In the books by Robert Arthur the boys were much more believable as average adolescents who were great at solving mysteries.
The whole thing with the navy was another unnecessary, unbelievable part of the story.
If it weren't for the scuba thing, this book would get 4 stars, instead 3.5.
I don't know why these books never "made it" bigger than they did. I sure enjoyed them as a child. The mysteries seemed...reachable somehow to me. Like they were something that if I had been part of the team, I could have contributed to solving them. And yet they weren't boringly predictable (at least at my then younger age). I'm considering collecting these now as an adult in hopes that my kids may become interested in them. -And I guess because I'm sentimentally geeky that way about the books of my childhood.
I think this one might have been the first of this series that I read. It was soon after my "Western" phase, and the Mexican outlaw had enough western flavor to interest me at the time. After that I was hooked on the Three Investigators and quickly devoured all of the series that the local library had. I read mysteries for a while after that.
Reviewing this series for my older boy, since it was one of my favorites when I was his age. It's striking how much freedom these boys took for granted at 12-13 (I've never been able to decide how old they really are; all I know for sure is that in none of them are they old enough to drive or care that much about girls).
Onhan näistä hieman parasta ennen päiväys jo mennyt ohi, mutta kyllä sen verran on tatsia jäljellä, että muistaa miksi tämä sarja oli lapsuuteni suuria suosikkeja. En taida vinkata, mutta jos joku meinaa poistaa näitä _minun_ kirjastostani, niin varautukoon kokemaan jumalten vihan jne.
This is the first of the series with a different author and you can tell. Just not as good as the previous books, not as exciting, plot not as well developed, characters just a little bit flat.I enjoyed it but wouldn't recommend it unless you either have excess time or already own the book.
Excellent to read. :)
