https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139253.The_House_on_Mango_Street
Despite my life long love of this genre, I have never until now had the privilege of reading Sandra Cisneros' A House on Mango Street.
Cisneros is a torch bearer for the Hispanic women writers who I love to read today, so I feel privileged to have read her first novel, now over 30 years old.
Mango Street, poetic in its prose, describes Esperanza, the oldest child in a Hispanic family who moves from apartment to apartment each year with her family.
Cisneros with Mango Street paved the way for generations of Hispanic women writers.
‘Mom, have you ever read The House on Mango Street?’Huh?
I pick it up, it’s maybe an hour’s read.
“We didn’t always live on Mango Street.” Then, I’m lost.
I’m in love.“She looked out the window her whole life, the way so many women sit their sadness on an elbow.”“You can never have too much sky.
I want to be new and shiny.”“You know what you are Esperanza?
I’m hugging Alice who sees mice and wishing that Sire would hold my hand.
I’m drinking papaya juice with Rafaela and reading Minerva’s poems.
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars to The House on Mango Street, a short series of vignettes published in 1984 and written by Sandra Cisneros. Picture it: Long Island, August 1995. 18-year-old college student receives a letter in the mail, revealing two books he must read prior to attending the freshmen orientation seminar on his first day of college later that month. Young kid says "They're giving me work to do already? WT..." It went something like that. And it wasn't that I didn't want to read,
18-year-old college student receives a letter in the mail, revealing two books he must read prior to attending the freshmen orientation seminar on his first day of college later that month.
Young kid says "They're giving me work to do already?
And it wasn't that I didn't want to read, and I was a good student, but seriously...
"I liked it a lot." Everyone nodded.
I said something like "what did you think?"I'll save you the drama.
Don't ever read a book again.
It's a beautiful story and helps you embrace change and difference.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
"I make a story for my life, for each step my brown shoe takes."Esperanza Cordero, a Mexican-American girl living in poverty, gives a soaring voice to a multitude of characters who otherwise would remain in darkness all their pitiful lives. Echoing the undying optimism even in the most wretched place, Esperanza stands for sunny days, for light and memories. In the midst of countless insignificant young adult books, The House On Mango Street is an exception. Awe-inspiring writing with a powerful message duly delivered.
Partly biographical, partly fiction, this wonderful book by Sandra Cisneros is an influential coming of age story that is still being used in schools today.
Cisneros, born in Chicago in 1954 to Mexican parents, an only girl with 7 brothers, experienced a transient early childhood as the family moved back and forth from Chicago to Mexico.
But when she was 11 they settled down and bought a house in the Humboldt Park area of Chicago, predominantly Puerto Rican, and it was from her life experiences there she drew the ideas for her stories in The House on Mango Street.
"Nevertheless, she persisted", and these experiences come to life in the character of Esperanza Cordero.
The word is "vignette"--snapshots of significant moments, people, in young Esperanza's day-to-day life, sprinkled with her understanding that she will leave this House on Mango Street, and the Houses not on Mango Street that could be on Mango Street, and write, but that Mango Street will never leave her.
But while the vignette style of the book lacks the conventions of short stories or a novel, The House on Mango Street shares one thing with those more traditional literary fiction forms: by the end of the book, Esperanza is changed.
;) The book consists entirely of vignettes from the author's childhood in a poor section of Chicago.
The writing is beautiful and spare - no vignette is longer that 2 or 3 pages (and the font is huge and widely spaced).
It reads like poetry, really - the words are potent and evocative rather than exhaustively descriptive.My reading of this book actually had some unexpected bonus material.
I picked my copy up at a library used book sale in Maine, and the previous owner appears to have been a slightly dim-witted 8th or 9th grader who felt obliged to write inane comments in all the margins.
A short sequence of colorful vignettes, full of vivid dialogue and striking images, The House on Mango Street tells the coming-of-age tale of its protagonist Esperanza. Written in simple prose that often borders on poetry, the novel takes on difficult subjects such as grief, oppression, poverty, and shame, as well as themes of friendship, family, hope, and joy. Throughout all the novel, though, Esperanza maintains her resilience and grit as she struggles to find a sense of belonging in a neighborhood and society hostile to her existence.
This was beautiful
In other words, I thought I might identify, recognize commonalities in our experiences that would give me insight into what is accidental and incidental in my family experience and what comes out of being Hispanic, or at least something that took me back to my childhood with my family.But really, I didn't last long despite my resolutions--I just hated the book's structure and style so much.
Cisnero also says in her introduction that when she wrote this she didn't realize she wasn't writing a novel since she hadn't heard of "story cycles." You know what?
I had the opportunity to meet Sandra in one of her book readings and I was so overcome with emotions I was part babbling, part crying and part laughing with joy.
I had to thank her because there was finally someone in the literary world that understood me and was able to tell stories that were similar to mine growing up as a Mexican in Chicago.
I adore this book because I finally felt like I wasn't alone!
I've seen so many stereotypes of hispanic people and I never felt like I identified with any of them.
"The House on Mango Street" is a coming-of-age book about a Mexican-American girl growing up in a Hispanic neighborhood in Chicago.
We see Esperanza Cordero's family and neighborhood through the twelve-year-old girl's eyes, told in a series of vignettes.
They feel trapped by their fathers, their husbands, and the responsibility of children.
Others are trapped by their lack of education or inability to speak English.
Esperanza is hoping her writing skills will be her ticket out of the neighborhood someday.
But she'll always have ties to the old neighborhood.Sandra Cisneros writes beautifully, painting a new picture for the reader in each vignette.
Easy to read and bite sized vignettes from the distinct viewpoint of a poor immigrant child Esperanza writing in her own style and keeping true to herself and her unique voice. Interesting. Different.
نصوص قصيرة عن فتاة مكسيكية لديها الكثير لتحكيه عن حياتها في شارع مانجوالبيت والعائلة, الأصدقاء والجيران, لحظات الفرح والحزنالرواية كأنها ألبوم للصور, في كل صورة لقطة من لقطات حياتها
She is a good poet who penned a mediocre "novel." I tell you, it is on the slim side of a novella. Physically, the book is short (maybe 5/7 the height of a standard paperbook), 12 point font, double-spaced, 134 pages long with 44 chapters and each one is set apart with its own half page. Oh, and the content? Just what you'd expect. Why, I bet Cisneros spent a whole afternoon writing what you could read in an afternoon.
I did not care for the style of writing...each small chapter(1.5-2 pgs.)(vignette), is a snippet of what life is like on Mango Street for Esperanza. Tbe idea of these snippets (vignettes) is great, but they never kept my attention or painted a vivid picture for me.It is not a continuous plot, that keeps you hanging. I'm not used to this style, so it really didnt "grab" me.I was hoping that throughout the book I would connect with the character or "feel" something...I never did.I was not impressed. It's jut not a writing style I connect with.
And considering that is used for all sorts of ends within a wide range of English literature classrooms (I, myself, have used it at the 7th and 11th grades, as well as studied it at college and grad school), it is beautifully malleable.
There is such a world within this unique novel--just keep rereading and rereading and keep looking more closely each time.It is easily my most taught, and thus most read novel--and certainly one of my most favorite.
I can still remember reading it in college for the first time, securing for me my passion for poetic, rhythmic, transformative literature.
“You can never have too much sky. You can fall asleep and wake up drunk on sky and sky can keep you safe when you are sad. Here, there is too much sadness and not enough sky. Butterflies too are few and so are flowers and more things that are beautiful. Still, we take what we can get and make the best of it."  Review in English | Reseña en español (breve)This book was a beautiful surprise -exquisite, delicate, hard- a quiet gem that is not there for exhibit but if one is lucky enough to find it
This was one of the books for my English class and it included chapters of different books but whose common theme was identity in the U.S. When last week I started reading The House in Mango Street, I knew I had already heard about Esperanza, the girl whose name means hope in English but in Spanish it means too many letters, sadness, waiting.
Though my knowledge in U.S. literature is not that much, I think that it was Cisnero's writing that started a new trend in books: short chapters, written in first perosn, and brief sentences to keep the reader interested.
Reading that whole list, I realize that I was independently a fairly innocent, blinders-on kind of kid, regardless of my mom's particular efforts.Anyway, I was always in gifted and advanced classes and got perfect grades.
I was living the dream.Then I got to the school and started to realize: some people are rich.
I had come to some relative understanding of my family's relative economic status in high school, but still the richest people around were like upper-middle-class, basically.
I had grown up in a world that a lot of these people didn't even realize existed, and I didn't know what it meant that I had left it behind.
This is the story of her neighborhood on Mango Street, a composite of many barrios in which she lived in Chicago and the many experiences she had as well as the people that brought these neighborhoods to life.This tenth anniversary edition published in 1994 had a beautiful introduction by author Sandra Cisneros in which she relates how she found her voice in graduate school in Iowa City.
Eventually she was able to find her voice and the result is the voice of the child Esperanza growing up on Mango Street.One of my favorite chapters that captured the essence of Esperanza was Four Skinny Trees and the following passage: "They are the only ones that understand me.
I've spent a long time avoiding this book because it always showed up on summer reading lists and that sort of place.
And yet it tells a sort of story, about narrator Esperanza's family moving to a maybe-not-so-good neighborhood (the kind that people who can afford to live somewhere else leave as soon as possible).
(The author's bio at the end explicitly states, "She is no one's wife and no one's mother.") A neighborhood which nevertheless feeds Esperanza's ambition to become a writer.
And because I'm glad Esperanza lived out her ambition to become a writer despite the odds being against her.
Audiobook narrated by author, Sandra Cisneros  It appears that before today I had only read a few of the vignettes presented in this text during my public school years.
First, I noticed that every teacher(including me) that does any part of this book in their ELA classroom pronounces Mango incorrectly.
It's supposed to be "Mawn-Go" not "Mang- Go." I wonder if my grade eight English teacher knows...
Second, I had never heard Sandra Cisneros speak before, she certainly has a very youthful voice.
Although I feel that it's a "nice" story and certainly introduces a voice in the literary world that until its publication was non-existent, I just think it was an okay read.
Read as part of a women’s coming-of-age course, The House on Mango Street might be my favorite book so far in the course.
A lot of coming-of-age novels deal with first loves and lost loves, but The House on Mango Street is something much more special.
It is defined by her all relationships and via human nature.Instead of being told what’s right and wrong, Esperanza also learns to adapt to life on her own.
This is what makes her coming-of-age story phenomenal.Esperanza’s character never takes a breath, she only grows.
Не можеш да си избираш сестрите, те просто идват и понякога са такива като Нени.Не може да играе с децата на Варгас, защото ще стане като тях.
Но когато се прибрах един следобед, цялата мокра, понеже Тито ме бутна под струята на пожарния кран – само дето аз донякъде му се оставих, - мама ме викна в кухнята, преди да се преоблека, и леля Лала седеше там и пиеше кафе с лъжица.
Despite that lack of knowledge, I struggled against societal expectations, just as Esperanza did.
I too watched my mother struggle to express her artistic self, while trying to juggle life as a mother and a wife and I learned the same lesson: support yourself so that you can do the things you need to do in life.We are also allowed a look into the world of immigrant Mexican families of that time—the strictness of the fathers, the dilapidated housing, the restraint on expectations.
And if this book is any indication, Sandra Cisneros has certainly met those expectations.
Now, before I go any further, I would like to say that when I read this book, I read it in Spanish.
Because Spanish is not my first language, this created some difficulties understanding the material.
In other words, if you swap out a few key names, it will be the story of the writer's life.
In other words, the writer is using this writing to vent her frustrations with her younger days, which is totally ok with me, so long as I am not required to read it.
The thing I liked the most/least about the book is, in a word, the vignettes.
I can see where others may have struggled with this story (the lack of punctuation, the 'novel' told in vignettes, the lack of real plot, etc) but I loved Esperanza's story and her voice and the way Cisneros weaves poetry into the things she writes.
I also found myself relating to a lot of the feels Esperanza expressed, from her name to her desire to have her own home to the way she saw and interacted with some of her neighbors and family.
I really loved this to pieces and already know I want to revisit it in the future.
What a horrible, wretched waste of time and paper.If you want to feel better about yourself, knowing that you can properly use punctuation and sentence structure, read this book.
You'll see plenty of characters who don't have them, and you can compare yourself to them and feel vain.If you want to feel better about yourself, perhaps because you're an adult (or getting there soon) and doing things that are productive, or aiming for something real in life, read this book.
Because within the confines of this book, people suck and definitely need your help.If you want to re-live your childhood memories of "Sideways Stories from Wayside School" from a more ethnically diverse and socio-economically depressed perspective, read this book.

Of course, it is expected from kids but there's only so much making fun of sick people, wanting to eat lunch at the school cafeteria and throwing tantrums in your home that you can take before the plot loses its meaning.Nevertheless, I enjoyed the short stories, especially those centered around strange yet interesting characters such as the woman who refused to speak English, the girl who felt trapped in a house on Mango Street and wished to escape to a land far away and a mother who was once as talented as any National hero but was now bound to care for her family.
