https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375013.Schindler_s_List
Much has been said about the 1993 Stephen Spielberg Oscar-winning movie.
(when will this ever stop?) Every time I bought me a copy, I watched it.
Every time I watched it, I cried.But surprisingly, I did not cry reading the book, 1982 Thomas Keanally’s (born 1935) Booker Prize winning Schindler’s List.
This is one of the many information that you don’t get from watching the movie.Who could forget the red little girl?
Of course, you should know that Oscar Schindler is not a saintly person and so the moral is that even how bad some people seem to be, there is something good in them.
like giving a body of fleshy substance to a ghost.What I didn't know about Oskar Schindler & the Schindler jews:1)Schindler's adolescence was unique (son of rich Roman Catholics) & charming (he was a fan of motorbike racing)2)the original proposal: all Jews were going to be relocated far far away--to Madagascar!3)some Jews approved of the ghetto at first since they thought that they would be free to worship and carry out their affairs with the enemies outside of the walls.4)if you were OD & failed to deliver a family to the SS, then yours would be forfeit (thus, the motivation for Jews to turn against each other)5)there were other Schindler-like saviors, millionaires who gave up everything to save lives, though their stories are told ELSEWHERE.6)the book gives more in-depth biographies of the survivors, like those of Poldek Pfefferberg and Amon's maid, Helen Hirsch.7)RESISTANCE- hinted at in the film; here, it is noted that something very similar to what occurs in Tarantino's "Inglorious Basterds" occurred in real life-- rebels did destroy the only SS-only cinema!8)the little girl in the red coat.
The novel was also awarded the Los Angeles Times Book Prize for Fiction in 1983.تاریخ نخستین خومانش: روز نهم ماه ژوئن سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: فهرست شیندلر؛ اثر: تامس کنیلی؛ مترجم: الگا کیایی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر سمن، 1379، در 312 ص، شابک: 9646298141؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان استرالیایی سده 20 ماسکار شیندلر، تاجری معمولی، و عضو حزب نازی ست، به خاطر طبع خوشگذران خود، و با توجه به دوستی، بین او و مقامات رده بالای ارتش، که بیشتر به خاطر سخاوت وی است، موفق می‌شود کارخانه‌ ای را، با پول یهودیانی که در خفا با آنان شریک شده، بخرد.
I read this book some time ago and I also watched the movie. I am not ashamed to say that this book and the film made me cry. Such a terrible time in our history when so much suffering was caused to so many. Thank God for people such as this who risked there own lives to save others.
I read this after the wonderful movie came out in 1993.
Certain people (you know who you are) were suggesting the other day that no one actually reads Thomas Keneally.
At any rate, I did read the book, and really liked it.Quite apart from anything else, it's an inspiring true story, which the author tells well.
But Schindler knows this isn't true.
Like a good businessman, he starts bending rules to keep them in his factory, and out of the gas chambers.Somehow, by imperceptible degrees, this Nazi shark becomes a saint who ends up saving the lives of over a thousand people, at great risk to his own.
"The list is an absolute good. The list is life. All around its cramped margins lies the gulf." The story behind the book which brought the story of Oskar Schindler to the world is almost as interesting as the story of Schindler himself. In October 1980, Thomas Keneally - already an established and successful Australian author - found himself looking for a new briefcase at the end of his book tour in southern California, the last stop before returning home to Sydney. Fate led him to a luggage s
Fate led him to a luggage store owned by Leopold Pfefferberg, who recognized Keneally; because Keneally's credit card took 20 minutes to process the payment, he began telling him the story of Oskar Schindler - a German industrialist who has saved him and hundreds of others Polish Jews from certain destruction during World War 2, at an enormous personal cost and with incredible ingenuity.
Pfefferberg led Keneally to the back of his store, where he kept many documents he managed to save regarding Schindler and his life during the war - photographs, letters and office documents, including the famed list of workers at a Schindler factory in Brinnlitz, on which he pointed his own name.
قائمة شندار يتناول اليهود زمن الحرب العالمية الثانية عندما سيطرت النازية على أوروبا وأسقطت عدة دول وليس مدن فقط!.الرواية تدور حول قصة ألماني عضوًا في النازية وهو زير نساء وتاجر، وهو لوحده ساهم في مساعدة أكثر من (1000) يهودي بولندي وقيل (1100)أثناء معسكرات الإعتقال نهاية بمعتقل "بلاسوف" بأن عقد تحالف مع القيادات اليهودية لتوظيفهم في إدارة مصنعه والذي بدوره يخدم تجارته ويخدم معه ألمانيا.يصوّر الكتاب مدى تطور الحس الإنساني وبلوغ سُلم درجاته عند أوسكار من مادي إنتهازي يسعى ليواصل تجارته ويصبخ فوق غناه من أثرياء الحرب شأن الكثير من الرجال الذي يستغلون مثل هذه الظروف على حساب الجانب الإنساني، وكيف بدأ يلاحظ مدى توحش النازيين في تصرفاتهم ضد اليهود ويحاول مساعدتهم ويفعل المستحيل في ذلك والتخفيف عليهم ومدي عنايته بهم وحتي عندما يتعرض للتحقيق غير مرة بسبب هذا السلوك الذي يجده قادة المعتقلات نازية من غرابة ويشتمّون فيه رائحة تعاطف يخبرهم إن رجل أعمال وأنه يحميه تجارته بالحافظ على أرواح اليهود العاملين في مصنعه حفاظًا منه على ماله!، وكان يسعي جاهدًا لضم أي يهودي لمصنعه لمعرفته - وفق الكتاب - أن أي يهودي سيتم ترحيله إلى " آوشفيتس بيركينو" وهنا في هذا المعتقل لن يكون لهم عودة حيث الإعدام.
Oskar Schindler is a legend for all men, women and children who have crossed his path in the Krakow ghetto, or later in the labor and extermination camps."Oskar had taken on the appearance of the god of deliverance, a double sided god according to Greek mythology, a god crippled vices, resourceful, subtly powerful, and can save lives in such a way as effective free . "
Và quả là bộ phim không những không làm tôi thất vọng, nó còn khiến tôi như sống lại những cảm xúc đớn đau, kinh hoàng trước những gì người dân Do Thái đã phải trải qua trong suốt Holocaust để rồi sau đó là sự ngưỡng mộ một nhân cách, một vị anh hùng lặng thầm là Oskar Schindler, người đã không chấp nhận khoanh tay đứng đồng loại khác chủng tộc của mình chịu chết dưới sự tàn ác của Đức Quốc xã.Ngay từ ban đầu, tông màu trắng đen của bộ phim đã phủ bóng lên toàn bộ câu chuyện một sắc màu thê lương, u ám và buồn bã.
However, this book was very hard to read, like reading a research paper.
i felt like he didnt want to write this, that his heart wasnt in this, Toward the middle of the book i flowed a little more but not until the last 8-10 chapters did it start to be easier to read.
Oskar Schindler is/was a hero.This book is so real and should not be taken as lightly as i took in in the first chapters, because once i finished i realized how much everyone should know about what schindler did.
Rather than observe the overall event and decry it as humanity at its basest he chooses to go beyond the surface and look at the individuals shaped and changed by the circumstances within which they found themselves.In essence this novel is a curious amalgamation of history text and fictional story.
One would not also be able to note little facts that add a touch of definition to the character of Schindler such as that he hated Amon Goethe while appearing friendly towards him and that he never suffered hangovers from intoxication.A further mention on the characters within this novel is fascinating as what Keneally deals with is fact rather than fiction, though it may be fact tempered with fiction.

Most manufacturers worked their people to near death and then had them shipped off to the death camps, But Oskar Schindler was different although the book never really tells us why he took his pro-Jewish attitude.
It is said that he saved more Jews from the gas chambers than any single individual during WWII.The book is based on testimony from many of the Schindlerjuden and others that worked with Schindler during those last years of the war.
It was a good eye opener.The second half of the book was easier to read as the end of the war approached and Schindler became like a madman on a mission to save as many Jews as possible.
I also feel that I now have a better understanding of the human capacity both for horrendous evil and for equally astounding good.I think the best part of this book is that during the holocaust it must have seemed like the world had ended, and yet the holocaust itself ended instead, and people were held accountable for the things they did when it felt like no one who cared was watching.
In fact, if it weren’t for the disconnected narrative episodes which provide the matter for these avalanches, I would say that the book reads like a veritable List of names.
I fully sympathize with the fact that Keneally wanted to be true to the real history and people on which his book is based, but if that conviction was so constricting that it was impossible to make a coherent and viable narrative, he shouldn’t have attempted the form of a novel.
Schindler's Ark is hands-down one of the most inspirational stories I've ever read. The author does a remarkable job at capturing such a powerful time in history, and at capturing Schindler as well. As the book points out, Schindler wasn't perfect, he had his flaws, but the atrocities of war opened his eyes and he did something so brave that most people would never be able to imagine. Despite being a member of the Nazi Party, he used this position as a guise to secretly save the lives of over a thousand Jewish prisoners during the Holocaust from certain death.
“Ortada bir Schindler listesi vardı ve listeye girmek dünyadaki her şeye bedeldi.” Kitap hakkında pek fazla düşüncem yok aslında.
Nazi kampları ile ilgili daha önce bir kitap okumadım ve pekte bir bilgim yok açıkçası.
Oskar Schindler, Polonyo’da Nazi kamplarına gönderilen kadın ve erkekleri kendi himayesine alıp koruyan Alman bir vatandaştır.
W. Beckelman’ın yazdığı mektupta ki şu cümlelerle daha kolay anlatabiliriz; ”Önce Polonyo’da, daha sonra ise Sudetenland’da bir Nazi fabrikası işletmecisi kılığına bürünen Bay Schindler, Auschwitz veya diğer kötü şöhretleri toplama kamplarına götürülmeleri kararlaştırılan Yahudi kadın ve erkekleri, çalışan kisvesiyle fabrikasına alarak korumuştur.”  Oskar gördüğü her acı çeken Yahudiyi bir şekilde fabrikasına alıp hayatlarını kurtarmaya çalışır.
They lived as people with history and personality and while this seems like a small feat, it is one often overlooked in books that feature the "hero" saving the "victim." You see it too often in fiction about Africa (hello, Constant Gardner!) in which the white man is the hero and African characters are just tools that the author wields, to be saved by, to affect, to be interpreted by, the interloping hero.
Keneally -- clearly a novelist who approaches the book like a novel -- has a matter-of-fact style; because I haven't read his other work (though now want to), it is hard to say if it is because of the subject matter or because that is how he always writes.
thôi thì 3.5 sao, có rất nhiều chuyện cảm động rơi nước mắt =))
I would have been ready to argue with them about how long I'd had the book but for the system logging the date I borrowed it on).I found myself feeling a bit indignant on Schindler's behalf when Keneally mentioned that one of the men who had been bumped off Schindler's list blamed him for his experiences through the rest of the war (he ended up being marched to Auschwitz where he spent the final months of the war waiting for a place in the gas chamber, which fortunately didn't happen).
Anyhow, this book was another good reference to the Holocaust period and how that affected the lives of many people across the entire Europe.
In this particular work, it's all about this guy, Oskar Schindler, a man that risked a great deal of things in order to save what he could of the Jew population of Poland.
I don't know if it's just because the way he was depicted by Keneally, but when I think Oskar Schindler, I see this big, masculine being that likes to drink and have fun and doesn't care about social opinion and still knows all the tricks to getting everybody's affection - and by everybody I mean the right people in the right position in the system.
books which show an act of kindness are my favorites.... and so does Mr. Schindler.
Schindler did nothing remarkable before or after the war and without his wartime efforts would have been remembered as a womaniser, drinker and bankrupt.
However his efforts to save the Jews who worked in his factory and his treatment of them compared with what was going on around him means he will always be remembered.
The story behind the book; the efforts of Poldek Pfefferberg to get the book written and the film made are also remarkable.
The most shocking part of the book for me was the epilogue.
In typical Schindler fashion he was charged with assualt when he punched a factory worker who called him a Jew-kisser.
This is one of those cases where I watched the movie before reading the book. And this is also one of those rare cases where the movie was so much better than the book. I think I would have liked the book even less if I had not seen the movie because there were areas in the story that I recognized because of the movie. The movie version gave me an image that was dramatic and memorable whereas the book was impersonal, reading like a reference manual.
I imagine if you are considering reading this than you're already aware of the story of Oskar Schindler.This is a gut wrenching novel to read in parts, the human suffering and cruelty that occurred was horrendous. At heart a story of good versus evil resilience and survival and at face value a very unlikely "hero."Another from the Boxall 1000 list.
Хіба що потім у лазнях Аушвіцу з’явилися, хто б ви думали, латишки, але хто не зверне навмисне на то увагу, той навіть і не помітить (та й згадувалися вони, по-моєму, в іншому контексті).Та врешті-решт, це та книжка, де ти прагнеш швидше дійти до фіналу, аби побачити справжній вистражданий happy end.
Він далеко не для всіх буде happy, та, на жаль чи на щастя, не завжди end, але я зітхнула з полегшення перегорнувши останню сторінку.
I've read several books of the second world war in the past (and seen many documents), so I know the history behind it all quite well.Still, this book went straight into my feelings.
This book is about Oskar Schindler's bravery and witts, how he managed to save over 1100 jewish prisoners during the holocaust.
He was no saint in his personal life, and this book stays true to that.The story is intriguing; how this one german went to extraordinary measures to save as many as he could, when others like him did nothing of sort.
This true story gives me hope.
From having seen that I thought I knew the story and expected the book to add details and be more "fully fleshed." My memory is likely flawed, but my feeling now is that the movie doesn't do the story justice in any way.
Keneally was able to put it on the page in such a way to show Schindler, warts and all, in context.Schindler saved so many lives well beyond the 1100 of the "list".
Those people got about 2000 calories a day, where the SS Camp internees were getting more like 700-900 calories a day.
Cartea răspunde LA APROAPE toate întrebările mele... APROAPE, pentru că o singură întrebare despre viaţa lui Oskar Schindler rămâne în aer – şi după ce vezi filmul, şi după ce termini cartea. Ce anume a determinat această schimbare uluitoare în conştiinţa lui? Ce s-a întâmplat de cinicul, afemeiatul, risipitorul Schindler s-a transformat în salvatorul evreilor, cheltuindu-şi ÎNTREAGA avere, riscându-şi libertatea (a fost arestat de 3 ori) şi chiar viaţa?Recenzia completa pe https://anaarecarti.ro/main/lista-lui...
