https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44660.The_Belgariad_Boxed_Set
And I'll make no apologies for loving this series of books.
Mark Twain once apologize for writing a long letter because he didn't have time to write a short one.
David Eddings (and his noncredited co-author wife, Leigh) took the time to write a enjoyable, smart, funny and engaging adventure series.
I particularly enjoyed how he differentiates between sorcery and magic and the mechanics of how sorcery works in this world.Serious adventure fans will find enough in here to enjoy and to justify the time spent reading; casual fans just looking for a good read will enjoy it for the fast, fun ride it takes them on.
The Belgariad series and its sequel, the Mallorean series (also 5 books) are some of the best fantasy novels you will ever read. Unlike most fantasy books, it is relatively easy to quickly figure out the world in which they take place. The characters are absolutely fantastic - some of the best characters in any fantasy book I've ever read. I think Silk is my favorite. So read all 10 of these books. They are great!
I just introduced my half-brother (he's about 12) to Eddings and he loves it.
There's a kind of magic there, and for all the charges (justified!) of being unoriginal, Eddings (RIP) mainly uses clichés because they work.
The thing I'd compare it to would be the Star Wars original trilogy: (and like Lucas, Eddings has read Campbell) If you have a kid the right age, or if you ARE a kid the right age, or if you just feel like some mindless fun with good guys, bad guys, some teenage angst and a happy ending, this is a good book to read.
This is the series that really got me hooked into the fantasy genre. The pace at which the story moves along is one of the best... introducing you to the innocent, somewhat naive farmboy Garion, who quickly grows on you as everything that has been kept secret from him is slowly revealed, forcing him to come to grip with his destiny. The variety of characters and their unique personalities are great, and the often funny banter between the characters makes this a guaranteed enjoyable read!

The Belgariad is the best series of books I have ever read.The books take you into a well defined world, each country very different from the next, and envelops the reader in such a riveting story-line that he would want to never put the book down.The series is full of magic (sorcery), action, and believeble characters.Well worth the read
The series is very easy reading.
The humorous banter of the characters has a mildly addictive quality.
The books have better moments, certainly I remember that in principle there were better moments although for the life of me I can't recall any now my memory of reading these is like that of eating sliced packet bread smeared with margarine and shipham's paste, but you could probably read them while drunk and suffer no appreciable loss of enjoyment or understanding of the plot.They are fine for what they are and I could recommend them to somebody who was young, or maybe learning English as a foreign language, but otherwise life is short, tempus fugit and all that.Dispensible.
Yes, you are reading that correctly - this is a fantasy series of five books. Actually, ten, for there is a sequel series of five called The Mallorean, although it isn't quite as good. As would would expect in a series of such length, there are many characters and storylines, but not so many that you get lost in them. The five books of the Belgariad are wonderfully creative; Eddings creates a fantasy world that is fun to become part of.
I have loved these books since they were loaned to me in high school, and I used to reread them at least once a year.
My opinion on the series may have changed somewhat on my latest reread but David Eddings still writes the best dialogue on the planet.If this series was written today, it would have been YA, and some details would have changed--not for the better.
There is some light commentary on social and domestic issues, and the violence is somewhat restrained and justified.It has been years since the last time I picked it up.
4.5/5
So this is REALLY schlocky fantasy, and even at like 15 I knew it was schlocky, and yet kept reading, and kept waiting until next year when the next novel would come out.Now, I had no idea at the time that after a hardcover comes out, its usually another YEAR before the soft cover is published.
I feel dirty -- these books are SO predictable that even *I* was able to guess what was happening YEARS before the events happened on paper.
In the Belgariad, David Eddings leverages archetypes to the hilt--the orphaned child of destiny, the old and wise advisor, the protective mother-of-all--and weaves them into a beautiful detailed world, populated by people in nations who seem determined to live up to every stereotype about their race.
When a character rolls their eyes and says, "Alorns!", the reader is laughing right along, nodding in fervent agreement.The plot itself is familiar and has been used by others in one variation or another--the orphaned child rises to claim his destiny as savior of the world, and oh, by the way, find the precious blue gem before the enemy does.
I read these books starting in Jr High, I think, and read them all multiple times. I love the author and the world he created. His characters are alive and well in my imagination. Though Eddings world is not nearly as developed as Tolkien's, if you liked The Lord of the Rings, you'll like these too.
Sam nie wiem, dlaczego się zgłosiłem do recenzji.
Gdyby nie to, odłożyłbym po przeczytaniu góra stu stron.
Komuś kto ma naście lat i nie czytał jeszcze dobrej literatury, szczególnie fantasy.
I tak przez ponad 1300 stron.
I mógłbym jeszcze tak długo.
Bo to doskonały przykład powieści, w których główny bohater jest nie dość, że głupi i naiwny to również całkowicie niepotrzebny.
Służy głównie jako ozdoba lub przeszkadza jak kula u nogi.
I w ogóle się nie zmienia, aż do końca.
Nie inaczej jest z innymi, np.
z księżniczką Ce'Nedrą, która jest od początku do końca nieznośną smarkulą.
Let me explain.I made the choice after finishing the first book that I was going to wait until I finished the whole first series to write a review.
Like I said, I realized that if I read this as a kid, before I had come to expect certain things from writing, I would have absolutely loved it.
I think that if you’ve read a lot of stories/series similar to this one (meaning, very cliche and very tropey), then you may be too jaded to let yourself enjoy this one.
I got hooked on this in early, early high school and it's still the story I compare similar books to when I try to decide if they're good or not.
Unfortunately, near as I can tell, everything else David Eddings wrote sucked so the jury's still out on who my favorite author is.I like this series because it's really easy to read.
Yeah, that sums up just about every high fantasy story ever told.
But he had fun with this series, and because of that I did too.Start with Pawn of Prophecy and read it.
I realize that LOTR is a seminal fantasy work, and it’s hard to be completely unique and still have a similar storyline, but there were quite a few times that I thought - as I was reading the book - “Oh, look, it’s just like LOTR.“ The gods created the world and man to entertain.
When rumor reaches the farm that the orb has been stolen, Aunt Pol and Mister Wolf, the old storyteller, take Garion on a journey that changes his life.I don’t want to give anything away, because it was a good story.
Not all surprises are good, after all.Anyway, with that being said, I first read this book when I was 8 years old.
I can read through the book knowing that I don't have to worry about being unsettled by a bad surprise, (view spoiler)[none of your favorite characters ever die, no one time travels or undoes anything that makes the whole book pointless, and best at all this feeling of being safe carries throughout the entire series!
(hide spoiler)]If you enjoy reading about fictional worlds, prophecies don't bother you, and you're looking for a family oriented book that can spark a vivid imagination, you should at least consider giving this one a try.
One usually looks to the slightly crusty Belgarath or perhaps to the morally questionable Kheldar for entertainment.The women are handled in a fairly disgusting manner.
There's a theme of women using their charms to get what they want and then sniping at the male characters like harpies.
Then again, half the time the women are only sniping to get the men to take a bath so I guess that doesn't reflect too kindly on either sex.
If you're just looking for entertainment and a lot of it, this series goes on forever, so you shouldn't be disappointed.
A young adult series that stands the test of re-reading as an adult.
I suspect that I first read the series in the early 90s, it wasn't new at the time, and I was in my early twenties.
In talking to random people over the years, I have been periodically surprised by who is a fan of David Eddings, which only makes me think more of his work, to attract hard core fantasy geeks like myself, as well (in particular) a moderately humorless human resources manager that I spent a memorable hour or two discussing the series with.
The Belgariad is a series of five books that are the first of 12 that follow the same characters.
Edding's most powerful feature is his characters.
It is the intimate relationship that the reader cannot help but develop with his characters that will make reading these books seem like all too short of an experience.
The characters that Eddings creates in the collection that includes the Belgariad, the Mallorean, Belgarath the Sorcerer and Polgara the Sorceress are what truly makes them my all time favorite fantasy novels.
Warm and entertaining, with likable characters, Eddings' series is fun but light.
It's classic quest-based high fantasy, but there's an odd current of racism involved, more than the usual "orcs are bad" sort of thing.
In the world of the Belgariad, the various humans are divided into several different countries, each with their own overriding and somewhat arch characteristics.
The bad guys are the dark-skinned Murgos, and they're basically all bad.
Despite these drawbacks, the books benefit from some decent world-building on the part of David Eddings, and from the complex and charismatic wizard Belgarath, who is really the glue that holds it all together.
So finished the whole series, these five and the next five and they were fine, but not really compelling to read.
I just would have a hard time recommending these books to anyone because they aren't that spectacular.
Also someone commented on my review of the first book that the various gods/peoples are not that difficult for even the most juvenile of minds.
Also, after having read Eddings other series, (the jewel one, with diamond, rubies and sapphire) he has some serious issues with his heroes being attracted to childlike, waif-like young girls that never age.
If I read this book in my pre-teen or early teen years I would loved it to death.I would probably tell people to forget Lord of the rings and read Eddings, but as adult I found it charming but not really great.Interactions between where characters where always fun and I had grin on my face most of the time while reading this book but I can't give it higher score because there simple are lot better heroic fantasy and young adult books.Still one of the best books if you are trying to push child into fantasy genre.
David Eddings' finest work. Tough to break the books down individually...so I'm cheating and writing about the 5 book series as a whole. All the characters are fresh...wizards, princesses, mystic swords...This series just rocks.
I'm currently reading this too. One of my favorite series from my teenage years.
My favorite series by far - I'm just about ready to re-read it!
Another great fantasy series about a boy who has to save the world. This series has it all: great characters, lots of funny banter, plenty of fighting, and magic.
Do you know how hard these are to get at the library?! They're never in!
Best fantasy books on the planet. My kids will read these over and over!
