https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161914-the-grifters
HOWEVER, what's most amazing about Thompson’s story is that he has you constantly on the edge of “feeling something” for these characters, especially Roy, with whom we spend the most page time.
Roy is scarred and damaged from upbringing with Lilly, but there are shreds of the good person still inside, the person who wants to lead a normal life and do the right thing.
The only thing that keeps me from giving it 5 stars is that I'd previously seen the movie, with John Cusack, Angelica Huston and Annette Bening, about 5 times before reading this (I obviously loved it) and so the suspense was a bit watered down.
Salesman Roy Dillon has a secret life as a top shelf grifter.
Will his downfall be at the hands of his girlfriend Moira Langtry, or his mother, Lilly?Here we are, another noir tale of self-destruction by Mr. Happy, Jim Thompson."Don't trust anyone ever" seems to be the moral of The Grifters.
Moira Langtry pays her way through life with her body.
Not one of them should be left unsupervised.Roy's a little more sympathetic than most Jim Thompson leads.
The Grifters is a slow burn and the ending is pretty spectacular, cold, violent, and more than a little creepy.
There was one thing about playing the angles. If you played them long enough, you knew the other guy's as well as you knew your own. Most of the time it was like you were looking out the same window.  Roy Dillon, grifter extraordinaire, was always playing the angles. Though Roy is undoubtedly our protagonist, this really is more of an ensemble piece. While The Killer Inside Me and Pop. 1280 are meditations on (if you can call such depraved tales "meditations") the existence of one twisted mind
His mother, Lilly and paramour, Moira, are stars in acts of their own, giving rise to deliciously unpredictable interactions where you're never quite sure who is playing who(m).This wasn't my first ticket to the Jim Thompson show, so while I was expecting a level of "darkness" that begs for a stronger word than simply 
It wasn't so much that the twists simply surprised me, or proved me right or wrong- they brought a level of near-existential reflection and depth that gave a sort of bonus gravitas to an already well-written, highly-recommended, riveting read about ever-precarious life on "Uneasy Street."
(I have not seen the movie, mainly because an evil John Cusack would throw my hard-wired Say Anything/Grosse Pointe Blank fangirl brane into disarray.) I'm supposed to be watching the pawns get marched out in the opening words of A.S. Byatt's The Game, but I read a few pages from the middle of this book, got hooked on the short, evocative, deceptively simple sentences, read a few sections more and flipped back to the beginning to start properly (yeah, I frequently read mysteries starting with the end, so I know whodunnit.
I started to read The Grifters and got about 70 pages in until I began to wonder whether or not I was reading the right book.
Because not only did I love the two other Jim Thompson books I've read previously, but so many people are fans of this particular book and it couldn't possibly be the one I was reading, right?
I even looked up the Wikipedia synopsis to make sure that I wasn't missing anything.
I wasn't.
I was pretty uninterested, but I thought: Okay, this is building a set-up and then Thompson is gonna start putting it into overdrive in the 2nd half.
The Grifters dials down the viciousness and focuses on (mostly) the emotional states of short con grifter Roy, his long con grifter mother Lily, and Roy’s girlfriend (that looks very much like Lily) Moira, but it is equally delicious, in its own way.
As with Dostoevsky, Thompson can be very clever and very funny, and surely is both in The Grifters.“Moira purred: ‘Gosh, Roy, I have no idea how I can ever thank you.
Crazy people, that I hope I never run into in real life. If I do, I am turning the other way and running! This author's works are kind of addictive. Already looking forward to the next one.
The son of a similarly charming and crooked con woman, he's been living in Los Angeles and working a shrewd set of short-term con jobs alongside the facade of a respectable life.
But things never quite work that way in a Thompson novel and the brutality of the final two twists in the tale left me astonished and a little breathless.
I would love to imagine that Thompson was writing about some other species on some other planet; perhaps the most terrifying thing about his novels is that they are fiction with the stamp of truth.
I find myself quite surprised at having never before read a Jim Thompson novel, I've known who he was and I've seen a lot of the movies based on his work, I've even owned a handful of his books for at least a year but still it took the pulp fiction group choosing it as the June read for me to actually pick one up.Thompson has this reputation for being beyond dark, holding up a circus mirror to life that only reflects the ugly, uncomfortable and depressing and that is why I've found myself reading my first Jim Thompson at 29 but my first Chandler at 17.The Grifters is an incredible book; immensely readable I struggled to stop myself from finishing it in one sitting, the three major players are fascinating in their own ways, backstories hinted at and fleshed out in equal measure and not a single redeeming feature in any of them.
Μπορεί να αδικώ το βιβλιαράκι με τα 2 αστεράκια (σκεφτόμουν επί ώρα αν του βάλω 2 ή 3) αλλά αυτό είναι στην τελική : βιβλιαράκι.
Έχει μια ωραία νουάρ ατμόσφαιρα, ο Οιδίποδας κάπου αχνοφαινεται στο βάθος, αλλά στην πραγματικότητα για βιβλίο που ευαγγελίζεται τις νουάρ απάτες δεν συμβαίνουν και πολλά παρά στο πολύ τέλος.
Ακόμη δεν κατάλαβα τις κατά μόνας απάτες της τριάδας και αυτό έχει σημασία διαολε όταν μου πλασάρεις κον αρτιστ ντραμα.
Το θυμόμουν άχνα από την ομώνυμη ταινία του 1990 και πεθαίνω για ένα καλό πλοτ τουίστ, αλλά στην πραγματική ζωή, you can' t get away with murder αλλάζοντας ταγιέρ.
It's this incident which brings back his mother, Lilly, and kicks off a chain of events which culminates in an ending nothing short of spectacular.In order to reinstate his deteriorating health, Lilly commissions home nurse Carol which serves as a means to demonstrate Roy's mothers need to influence him.
As a character, she doesnt add all that much to the story, serving well as a Lilly's pawn rather than a point of focus in her own right.
While bubbling under the surface, the tension and off-centre relationship between Roy and his young mother Lilly is paramount to proceedings, creating a story within a story, of which Moira is a key piece.
You either go up or go down, usually down."The Grifters is a tidy hard-boiled book, dark and twisty and full of existential questions.
That bit had me wavering between three and four stars - that and the fact that I'm starting to have a sneaking feeling like, how many hard-boiled books does one need to read?
I've been assuming that I love noir, but I haven't really examined that; maybe I just like it.What sets Thompson apart - and he's one of the top five, no doubt - is, again, that he's willing to go darker.
Υπάρχει μια σημαντική διαφορά μεταξύ του J.
Thompson και των εκ Σκανδιναβίας ορμώμενων ομοτέχνων του.
Ο μεν πρώτος είναι κατά κύριο λόγο Συγγραφέας, οι δε λοιποί είναι trendy γραφιάδες πολυσέλιδων τόμων μυστηρίου/θρίλερ και δευτερευόντως συγγραφείς – όπου Συγγραφέας, υπενθυμίζω, είναι ο τεχνίτης του λόγου, με διακριτό ύφος και όραμα.
Το "Οι κλέφτες" εμπεριέχει όλα εκείνα τα στοιχεία που καθιστούν τον Thompson σημαντικό στυλίστα, μια ξεχωριστή φωνή των αμερικανικών γραμμάτων.
Δεν νομίζω πως είναι το καλύτερό του (προσωπική προτίμηση το απόλυτα σκοτεινό "The Getaway"), αλλά είναι σαφώς απολαυστικό και "μυρίζει" έντονα λογοτεχνία.Τελικά, η υπόθεση Noir/ μυστήριο/ αστυνομικό ξεκίνησε και παραμένει αποκλειστικά προνόμιο των πέρα του Ατλαντικού συγγραφέων.
I admit I watched the movie version of this book starring John Cusak a long time ago, well before I ever picked up the book, making me perhaps one of the last people on the planet to have read it.
But, I found a copy in a used book store one day and couldn't resist it.
It sat on my shelf for a good long while, but I eventually got it read.
This is not a very long book, and once I started it I could not put it down!
These were some really messed up people!
The Grifters is the story of Roy Dillon con-artist specialising in short, quick scams, the son of Lilly, who is a con-srtist of a different type, working on horse betting, long-term scams.After leaving home and traveling the country picking up money by the time the story kicks in Roy is based out of L.A. having successfully staying in one place long-term while still being able to run his cons.
I would have liked to have seen more of Roy doing his cons though and the whole Carol section was a little odd.
I really want to see the film now, I can't really picture John Cusack as Roy. A good book, worth reading.
It was well written & read, but I never wanted to listen to it because it was so depressing. Everyone sucked & I couldn't find a character to connect to, to root for. Something bad would happen to one of them & my mind just said, "OK, now wander off & die, jerk." They didn't. They kept hanging around being miserable, living for no other reason than dying would have put me out of their misery, so I stopped about 2/3 of the way through. Haven't missed it & don't wonder what happened to them. Couldn't care less.:(
There is a reason they call Jim Thompson the Dimestore Dostoevsky; his works really spotlight the moral dilemma his protagonists and main characters face, so I was really looking forward to reading The Grifters; I’ve seen the movie so I was interested in seen the inner thoughts of the characters.
If you haven’t read a Jim Thompson book maybe this is a good place to start, it’s not as dark or gritty, they characters are great, the plot isn’t as twisted as some of his other works and the suspense is a bit watered down.
I am often irritated by Thompson's lack of attention to detail, over the top dialog and faux vicious and corrupt characters.
Roy Dillon is an undercover conman who is trying to escape from the incestuous clutches of his mother Lily Dillon while also trying to choose between his lover Moira Langtry (who looks a lot like his mother) and the innocent Jewish nurse Carol Roberg even as he recovers from an internal hemorrhage picked up during a minor con job.
Every character has a backstory that is narrated through flashback.
Moira Langtry's flashback was excellent.
The Grifters is an exercise in animal behavior, specifically the reptilian overtures of homo sapiens.
It is a feral book.
What saves it, what elevates the narrative from the primordial is its kinetic codes of communication.
The novel triumphs through its five or six principal conversations.
The characters expand outside of type and blur our ready verdicts.
There are human truths being issued from the mouths of vipers: assassins, certainly, but ones with souls.The film adaptation reveals the central set pieces, with one notable exception.
It rained here this a.m. before the Manchester Derby, the solace of Roy Dillon was illuminating by contrast.
I saw the movie all those years ago and thought it was amazing.
I am glad to have read the "source" material.
I think it is darker than the movie.
I felt as I was reading there was a timeless quality.
My only issue with the book was Carol.
I don't remember how the movie treated Carol, but she seemed out of place.
Am I reading to much into Carol.
Perhaps Roy is simply a scoundrel and a bigot with no redeeming qualities after all....that was Carols job in the book to show us exactly who Roy was.
I am glad to have read it.
Thompson's book teems with the nasty, grasping, animalistic part of human nature.
Roy is a con man, a grifter, running small cons to make money.
The novel opens with a con gone wrong, with Roy's stomach on the receiving end of a jagged baseball bat.
The baseball bat incident is really the catalyst for the whole story, since when Lilly comes in to see Roy, she realizes instantly that something's wrong and has him rushed to the hospital.
Try as I could, the reason why Roy becomes so thoroughly repulsed by Carol, the nurse, after he learns of her history wasn't exactly clear to me as laid out in the book.

****1/2 The sharpest, most twisted, most Thompsonian of this recent run of Thompson novels I've delved into. L.A. noir with a vivid, sardonic sense of place, and an existentialism to rival the French batch with which Thompson simply must have been quite familiar.
They’re small-scale cons, but if you’re skilled enough and pull off enough of them you can over time amass a very large amount of money, and Roy is very good indeed at his work.
Thompson adds other elements, however, elements you don’t expect to find in a crime novel.
In both The Grifters and The Getaway, the only two Thompson books I’ve read so far, there’s also more than a touch of strangeness.
If a book as good as this can be considered a lesser work then I can’t wait to read some of his better stuff!
Περίμενα κάτι εξίσου δυνατό με το «Κάτοικοι 1280» αλλά δεν... Παρόλα αυτά, αξίζει τον κόπο και σίγουρα η γραφή του ειναι εξαιρετικά ενδιαφέρουσα.
Man, I really did like this book a lot.
It's not Thompson's best work but it is so, so well done.
He was the pied piper of human misery and self destructive nihilism.The plot of the book is more or less followed by the movie.
I saw the movie a decade or so ago and liked it.
The few plot lines not followed by the movie turn out to add a tremendous amount to the book.
Again it isn't Thompson's most powerful novel, or his best written...it is just excellent, and isn't that enough?
the story of a Mother with a capital M for malevolent.
such stories are rare but earthshaking.
a triangle between a man, his older girlfriend, and his Mother, whose hearts are dead.
a small oedipal tragedy that accuses the bankrupt ideals of USA.the 1998 film was a chance missed, Frears the wrong director.
Anjelica Huston perfectly cast as Mother, but her co-stars wimps.
i saw the film before i read the book and compared them mentally scene by scene.
the film reorganizes the material in ways that kill the build, excises important backstory, and redundantly shows certain tricks over and over again.
Είναι το πέμπτο βιβλίο του Τζιμ Τόμσον που διαβάζω και νομίζω ότι δίκαια πιάνει την δεύτερη θέση στις προτιμήσεις μου, μετά φυσικά από το αριστούργημα Pop. 1280.
Η ιστορία αφορά έναν κομπιναδόρο και μικροαπατεώνα, τον 25χρονο Ρόι Ντίλον, ο οποίος επίσημα δουλεύει σαν πωλητής προϊόντων με ποσοστά, αλλά αυτό που κάνει για να βγάλει λεφτά με παρά, είναι να κλέβει επιχειρηματίες και γενικά ανθρώπους σε μπαρ, κάνοντας διάφορα κόλπα.
Μάνα του είναι η κατά μόλις 14 χρόνια μεγαλύτερή του, Λίλι Ντίλον, η οποία δουλεύει για την μαφία, βγάζοντας λεφτά από τις ιπποδρομίες (είναι ένα κόλπο που δεν μπορώ να εξηγήσω αλλά πιστεύω ότι έχω καταλάβει).
He really does handle noir well, the punch-in-the-stomach kind that leaves you gasping for air, but also simultaneously tickles you a bit with splashes of great writing.The Grifters isn't the blackest or the craziest Thompson, and probably not even his best (despite the amazing rating on Goodreads that kind of confuses me), but it's a solid story with great characters.
He just throws some off-kilter things in the mix, and it still works somehow.You don't necessarily get that many surprises in classic noir, and The Grifters isn't an exception in that regard.
The Grifters is a classic storyline of a man who starts balancing between different worlds.
The story is about a young con-artist who is the son to a wretched bitch of a mother, also a con-artist.
The man loves pussy way too much.The women in this story, especially the mother, cloud his judgement.
He's a lonely man craving a meaningful relationship as the solution to a crooked life.
He genuinely wants a better life.Thompson presents a potentially good man warped by a cruel childhood and sexual confusion.
Life is a paranoid game in which everyone is either scamming or getting scammed.
There is no loyalty, even between a mother and son.
