https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71189.The_Collected_Short_Stories_of_Saki

Beautifully written... Loved the delicate humor throughout the stories.
Cool, bitter, bitter humour. These tales belonging the genre called the "Butler's Revenge". Saki's favourite people, however, are children and domestic animals. These, like Saki himself, are imprisioned outsiders, who bite back at the dull, complacent people who control them.
Witty, elegant and twisted tales of many types. JS
THE BEST OF SAKI.
Saki (H.
*****.Aside from coming across the inclusion of one of his stories in one anthology or another, I haven’t really read much of his short works.
He is known, however, for his short stories.
These short stories show the breadth of his style.
His characters all have strange names, a practice which had a great influence on P.
These stories are uniformly excellent, and I would have to struggle to name a favorite.
The particular edition I read was issued by The Folio Society and contains forty-nine selections.
I really love this book, but it took me so long to read it... Something about the stories generally made me unable to finish one and just launch into the next one, and there are a lot of stories. Some of them are so funny it hurt. I would recommend this book, but if you are like me, be sure you aren't expecting to finish it quickly.
At the time my mother gave this as a gift, she may or may not have seen how like this volume's central character I had already become (a snippy queer), but I thank her just the same. Saki's stories chronicle Clovis as he dishes out pre-Roald Dahl, sitcomesque lesson-teaching to the pompous elite.
(page 18) He classified the Princess with that distinct type of woman that looks as if it habitually went out to feed hens in the rain.
(page 82) And be surrounded by Americans trying to talk French?
I love Americans, but not when they try to talk French.
(page 122) One cannot discount the unpleasant things of this world merely by looking the other way.
If there is one book I want with me on that forsaken lost island, then it's this one. I have read it cover to cover thrice already, but I find myself visiting the individual stories ever so often, they soothe my pain, bring me to laugh and feel like I have viewed something keenly fantastic that resonates so well with my sense of humour.His satire, his attention to detail and disdain for the tenets of "good" society make him a personal favourite, he's part of the trifecta of Wilde and Wodehouse style of subversive humour.
It took me a while to read all of the stories in this collection and I think that is how they were meant to be read, four to five stories at a time. Most of the stories were humorous as they satirized the British society of their time. Some stories were distinctly macabre.It's easy to see how these stories would later influence Wodehouse. As it is, many if Saki's stories are like a Wodehouse novel condensed into the length of a short story. Overall, a witty and pretty humorous collection that short story lovers would love.
I am an Author who envies the ability of certain writers whose works tend to transcend the vagaries of time.By this I do not mean that I agree or support all the literary academics views on what is, or what is not, a great ‘classic’.Here I am speaking purely from my own personal perspective with regards to books which have had a great impact on my life.One author has tickled my funny bone with such satirical wit that I cannot pass the opportunity to write this review.The author in question is Hector Hugo Monroe, HH Monroe, or more commonly known by his single name pseudonym ‘Saki’.Saki was born Hector Hugh Munro in Akyab, Burma (now Myanmar), the son of Charles Augustus Munro, an inspector-general in the Burma police.
The only thing that almost ruined my enjoyment of this book is the author's misogyny: he seems to have an obssession with sufragettes, depicted as hysterical vandals (in one particular story they are even fed to lions and other such hungry beasts in a way that is meant to be satisfying for the reader.) It's easy to say "those were the times, cut him some slack", but the truth is, sexist jerks and decent people have co-existed in all historical times (including our modern days), and I highly doubt it that had he lived today, Munro would have had more progressive views.
Since winning a prize for excellence in Scriptural knowledge at a preparatory school he had felt licensed to be a little more unscrupulous than the circle he moved in.
Much might surely be excused to one who in early life could give a list of seventeen trees mentioned in the Old Testament.And who else won a prize for excellence in Scripture knowledge at school?
H H Munroe ... What an absolute delight to read. His pen-name "Saki" which in Urdu means "one who serves wine" is totally justified. He intoxicates and mesmerises readers with his play of words, premise and characterization leaving them to want more ... ask any ardent Daroo-baaj who always demands (as if a lawful right) a last drink when the bar is about to close. I went berserk with laughter after reading some of his stories. The one I remember are "Mrs. Packletide's Tiger", "The open Window",
H H Munroe ...
What an absolute delight to read.
His pen-name "Saki" which in Urdu means "one who serves wine" is totally justified.
He intoxicates and mesmerises readers with his play of words, premise and characterization leaving them to want more ...
I went berserk with laughter after reading some of his stories.
The one I remember are "Mrs. Packletide's Tiger", "The open Window", "The background" "Shock Tactics" and "The story of a mouse that helped".A must read for anyone with a disgruntled, funny and twisted sense of humor.In retrospect, I always feel Saki could have carved a niche for himself in blackmailing as a career.
I remember way back when I was in year 6, this 5th grader's mum gifted me this book as a present (she ordered a copy for her son and another for me), and I vowed that I would never read it because I hated her son with a passion.Eight years later, the book's sitting on my shelf (still unread), and I still don't understand how a ten-year-old boy would be interested in reading a book like this when the nineteen-year-old version of me can't even make it past the first page...But I will read this!One day...
The best stories in this collection are master-works: perfectly paced with strong characterisation and decidedly anti-establishment themes. Brilliant book which you can pick up on a whim and jump immediately into a bygone age.
What a discovery! I do not remember who introduced me to Saki, but I am really thankful it happened. His tales are wonderful, giving away laughter and marvel. He is one of the very few authors I am happy to recommend and rarely err.
Just brilliant! Hector Hugh Munro alias Saki, was one of the greatest short-story writers of the world; he was tragicomically shot by a conscientious German sniper on the Western Front in murky November 1916...his last spoken words..."Put that bloody cigarette out!". Here, in this wonderful selection,the reader can enjoy his written words, in all their style, humour & acid wit...not to mention their concise power to stir the imagination & bring a wicked smile to the lips!A read worth the candle? No one can put his bloody light out!
Munro is a master of short stories along with Chekov, O Henry, and Roald Dahl. Extreme wittiness and sarcasm of his characters makes reading a really pleasurable process. Personally, I am not a lover of something shorter than a novel but these stories may be an exception. They are mostly a satire on British government and ambition of its citizens for a distinction within their small circles. Suffragettes are particularly blessed with undying attention. Children constitute yet another topic exploited by the author for the amusement of a grateful reader.
Saki at his best is a master of the droll, the witty, the slightly absurd. The names of his characters are so British they are perfect. The stories at the end of this collection were written during the Balkan War and are of a different flavour. All in all, this volume has a lot of Saki, and is best consumed in smaller doses.
Excellent, if you enjoy subtle and understated, English-type humor and beautifully crafted use of the English language. Took a long time to read because the writing is so intense that I only wanted to read a few stories at a time.
Loved it! Folio society edition
Just great. Perfect when travelling.
Read so far:Reginald --Reginald on Christmas presents --Reginald on the academy --Reginald on the th
Kata yang diambil dari kumpulan syair karya Omar Khayam (salah satu kumpulan syair terbagus yang pernah gue baca) tersebut akhirnya diambil seorang sastrawan Inggris bernama H.H Munro sebagai nama pena (Kalau kita mengetikkan kata Saki di pencarian Google, seringkali yang muncul justru judul sebuah anime :D ).
Saki seringkali memparodikan hal tersebut sekaligus tidak munafik mengakui bahwa ia sendiri adalah bagian dari masyarakat itu.
Dalam buku ini gue menemukan ada 2 cerpennya yang ‘meledek’ gerakan Suffragate (Gerakan para perempuan yang menuntut hak pilih dan oleh para cendekiawan disebut sebagai gerakan feminis gelombang pertama) tetapi dengan cara-cara yang mungkin akan membuat seorang suffrgate pada zaman itu sendiri tersenyum.
Incredible. Urbane. Witty. Werewolf story is a must.
Saki must me a great person to have a conversation with, but never an argument.
His dialogues can convey the personalities of his characters or caricatures with as simple response to a question or whimsical comment.Below is my ranking of the 10 best short stories, out of 22, I read by Saki from best to worst in descending order (the other 12 are listed, but not ranked).
But of course they’re all great, this is just my humble opinion:I greatly enjoyed his short stories, but, and maybe this is due to a time barriers of about a century, some of his punch lines would escape me.
Много често Саки започва разказа си с почти безгрижен тон, който с нарастващ ужас кристализира в кошмар, халюцинация, самозаблуда, лъжа, горчива действителност.
Има ги от всички видове и характери, мрачни протагонисти на повечето разкази или многозначително безмълвни свидетели на случващото се в тях.
Разказите на Саки се появиха като откровение за мен, един повече или по-малко познат свят, под чиято привидно спокойна повърхност дебнат кръвожадни акули.
Усещането е като слънчев ден, който започва обещаващо, с ухание на цветя и питателна английска закуска, и постепенно се изражда в своя зъл двойник, съшит с останките от нечий кошмар.
Hysterical and brilliantly satirical, Saki (H. H. Munro) was a brilliant writer who inspired the likes of P.G. Wodehouse and other British humourists. There are many moments that are laugh-out-loud funny. My favourite stories are "The Stampeding of Lady Bastable," "The Open Window," "The Shartz-Metterklume Method," "The Lumber Room," and "Shock Tactics."
Clever, tedious thoughThe introduction says that Saki's short stories are like wine--they should be sipped, and savored slowly. Maybe that's right, if it's about fine wine after all, all along. But with a 500-page (or so) pack of varying quality short stories in tiny font, I guess what I need is a few healthy gulps since too many breaks (sips) could make the reading a bit monotonously tedious—and the quenching rather pointless.
