https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7777.McElligot_s_Pool
Superb reading!  A POOL OF READING  ’Cause you never can tell.  What goes on down below.  This pool might be bigger.  Than you or I know! A wonderful tale, the only one that Dr. Seuss colored using watercolor technique (used by Dr. Seuss only here and in another tale, Happy Birthday to You!), that since it’s about the possibilities of catching all kind of wacko fishes in a little pond......I think it was just perfect.In my humble opinion, of this kind of “Dream Bigger” trilogy (my point of view
Superb reading!
A POOL OF READING
This pool might be bigger.
Fascinating Marco's imagination is because he was able to imagine all those kind of places, fishes and sea creatures while waiting for a fish to take his bait in that tiny pool. Plain and simple, the moral lesson is just about patience. But despite the simplicity of the lesson that it wants to convey, the entirety of the story is exceptionally good.
Rae said this is her favorite Dr. Seuss so far!
A painted triumph of imagination and positive thinking.
This was my favorite Dr. Seuss book as a kid. I loved all the things he might possibly catch in McElligot's Pool. The imagination is great - also the hope of possibility. When I finished reading it to my mentee, he said, "But it doesn't say if he catches anything!" I told him that was great, because the reader gets to decide the outcome of the book. Until reading Seuss's books more recently as an adult, I'd no idea the hidden depth in what seemed to be meaningless, fun-sounding, inventive rhymes when I was a child.
Wonderful rhyming and so many odd fish which means great fun Goodling them to see what ones are real. Cat fish, whatever next! Nice illustrations too, lots going on in the background. Ended up reading this book twice as it was such good fun.
Also, the way that the boy describes each fish in McElligot’s Pool in a creative way such as mentioning a cat fish, a stout fish, and a fish that rides on skis and many children will love the wacky mentioning of each fish.Some smaller children might think that this book is a bit too old-fashioned since it was one of Dr. Seuss’ earlier books and the images are a bit outdated since some of the images are in black and white and the images are not brightly colored like Dr. Seuss’ later books are.
This story comes after  And to Think That I Saw it on Mulberry Street  and revolves around the amazingly imaginative Marco.In 1950, McElligot's Pool won the Pacific Northwest Library Association Young Reader's Choice Award, and in 1948, it won the Caldecott Honor.My TakeI had barely started before I knew the graphics would be such a very Seuss-ian delight, *grin*The odd thing, though, is that the color graphics alternate with the gray-and-white ones, and I don't understand why. I did love the on
Lord knows, Seuss was amazingly creative with the kinds of fish Marco thinks might be catchable.Brilliantly done with its own reality.The StoryYoung Marco may find a fish here in McElligot's Pool despite what any old farmer might say.The CharactersMarco is a young boy with an imagination and a farmer.Oh, yeah, and lots and lots and lots of fish.The Cover and TitleThe background for the cover is an elliptical swirl of blues and grays as an orange and green fish greedily eyes a worm on a hook that's attached to a bobber floating in the water.
What I mean by experimental is by the time Dr. Seuss becomes a sensation, he already discover his talent and the different formats of writing a children's book, the illustrations, and the colors.
I did not have a problem with it especially since this is one of earlier works but I can definitely see how others may not enjoy it especially the constant shift to black and white.In this story we get to meet Marco from Dr. Seuss's first book and he is at McElligot's pool.
The result for me is that the drawings in McElligot's Pool are among my favorite of any of Seuss' works I've read to-date.I really liked the main character Marco.
Marco's mind takes him past the visible limits of the pool, imagining all types of real and not-even-close-to-real fish that he might catch in the pathetic little puddle.
Marco represents optimism and hope, while the farmer who calls the boy a fool for wasting his time fishing at McElligot's Pool is a realist.
The farmer's mind can't get past appearances.
She was fascinated by the increasingly strange fish imagined by Marco.
Creativity at its best! As one of Dr. Seuss early masterpieces, this book tells a tale of many kinds of fish in McElligot's pool. I can imagine this being a good story for writer's workshop to create the strangest and most colorful fish in the pool or as a story to read before visiting the aquarium. Encourages creative minds that think outside the box.
One of the earlier Seuss books that I've somehow never heard of before, this was a fun read with MicroMort. No "message" just ever more fantastic fish a boy imagines he can catch in a tiny pond, which is exactly the kind of magical thinking I remember having as a boy. Fun.
A cute book about a young boy who is fishing in McElligot's Pool. A man comes and tells him, he won't be catching anything in the pool and the young boy tells him what he could be catching and where all that water comes from. Who knows, the child might be right?
Great imaginative book.
Loved it, and it cracked the kids up! Madeline chose it from the school library, and we really enjoyed it - I'd not read it before.
AppleBlossom read this one aloud to us all. This is a Memoria Press Second grade literature choice.
Imagination. Hope. Wonder. A revelation that we live in a world limited only by our perspective. This book inspires me to this day.
He is and will always be one of my favorite authors.
**** Caldecott Honor (1948) ****Beautiful colored pencil drawing show the early creative genius in the early years. His style is unique and evident.
• 1948 Caldecott Honor Book •Something about Dr. Seuss’ children’s books have never quite appealed to me. The pictures are just so out there. I love all his advertising work - maybe his children’s books are too overwhelming and his advertising work is easier to take in. But I recognize his talent and his importance in children’s literature, and after recently reading other Caldecott books from the ‘40s this was a relief. Materials used: unlistedTypeface used: unlisted
There are realistic fish and fish that are completely a result of his imagination displayed throughout the rest of the story.Professional Recommendation/Review #1:In this colorful picture book, a boy named Marco goes fishing in a small pond called McElligot's Pool.
The use of color and illustrations blur the line between fantasy and reality during Marco's story, creating one of the most interesting aspects of the book.
Seuss's use of the black-and-white pictures during Marco's whimsical descriptions in the text could be his way of toning down the fantasy and bringing it into the context of every day life.
Seuss back before he was obligated to make up nonsense words for the sake of rhyming. Great illustrations - sometimes they force you to linger much longer than the text would require.
3.8 stars
Even as a very little girl, I knew I had an unusual favourite Dr. Seuss book.
Nobody knew McElligot's Pool, and if they knew it, they certainly didn't like it.Despite the strangeness of and opposition to my choice, this one has always spoken to me.
Its message of steadfast belief in the power of one's own self and the gentle allure of escape which this book offers, have both been irresistible and invaluable in my life, and they remain so.There's no one who has not, at some point in his life, faced a taunting opponent to his dream.
It was a very small library but it seemed like a wonderland to me.This was the first book to explode my mind about the big wide world beyond my backyard and how things are interconnected.
To this day I believe that if all children had read this, they would understand how things are related, and there might be greater understanding of the big picture outside ourselves, and greater empathy for others.So long ago I read this and the images from the book remain vivid in my memory.
Seuss's flights of fancy are keys that open up young minds.
This book is about the overactive imagination of an adventurous little boy named Marco. Marco dreams up a magnificent parade and day dreams about fishing at McElligot’s pool and all the adventures he would have there. K-3 would be ideal for this book.All students would be entertained and would benefit from this book. This would be a good whole class read rather than small groups.A book similar to this one is Green Eyes.There is no multimedia that I know of.
4.5/5. I really liked this book, I thought it was really good in showing kids that you should never give in, or give up because someone else tells you you're finished before you even start.
Love Dr. Seuss imagination. The colors and the art were as amazing as they have always been!
I really loved this book. my 3 kids also really enjoyed this book as well. I think it's very cute and I would recommend this book to others.
This is a beautiful and brilliant book, as are almost all of Dr. Seuss' books, which teach children to always keep their options open for possibilities.
