https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156876.Liberalism_and_Social_Action
Ah John Dewey, oh voice of reasonable engagement with Hegel and logic. Why does no one talk about you much anymore? At the risk of sounding old fashioned, I will say that I think there is lot to be said for Dewey and his brand of pragmatism. Maybe we can blame Richard Posner on him, but I still think there is something there. This is the only book of his I have read, and frankly, it was a little while ago now. Maybe I should go back and revisit the guy.

This is an impressive short read that everyone should spend time with.
For me, it was helpful to have elucidated the historical progression from the pre-industrial revolution Lockeian/laissez faire mode of liberalism (that quickly became the entrenched american status quo) to the next-generational utilitarian mode of liberalism (thanks to Bentham and the Mills) that took hold in Europe in the early nineteenth century that roughly forms the basis of post-deal america.
By interpolation, this also implicitly "explains" why Europe always seems to be a generation or two ahead of us in its form of social democracy.
Good weekend read!
Dewey characterized laissez faire perspective on the economy as a beginning-level stage of economic development, and those who advocated for such perspective as reactionary, whose work to develop policy reflecting laissez faire philosophy in effect damaged social development.
Dewey advocated for innovative solutions for contemporary conditions stating, "Remaking of the old through union with the new is precisely what intelligence is" (p 56).
Views expressed by Dewey acknowledge the complexity of a modern world and the fluid conditions of a contemporary and ever-changing society.
Very quick read that summarizes Dewey's view of the meaning and purpose of liberalism in a democratic society.
People with little familiarity with Dewey could get a lot out of this book.
However, it's best understood in light of his previous works on habit, intelligent, and experimental method (Human Nature and Conduct and The Quest for Certainty).Dewey wrote this book in 1935, but it's still remarkably applicable to our political and social problems now.
I give up. This book is brilliant. It doesn't seem brilliant when you're reading it--instead it seems vague and unanchored--but the ideas that first seemed unrevelatory stick in your mind and I keep thinking it's like a central puzzle piece that I'm glad I found, because I needed it to fill an important gap. What a guy, Dewey.
This short book's good. The text consist of 3 lectures originally delivered on December 28, 1934, later republished in the journal School and Society in January 1935.The entirety is only 24,000 words, so I plan to reread it someday, and possibly give it a fourth star.
