https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7480.The_Girl_at_the_Lion_d_Or
They weren't cracks, more like craters.The love triangle/plot has been tried and tested, and done in better ways by so many better writers.I don't want to upset fans of Mr. Faulks so they start throwing eggs at my window, but I just don't think he is as good as he thinks he is.
So a little optimism still remains to try it one day.The Girl at the Lion D'Or is both an account of a pitiful young woman's descent from problems of her own making, and a pretty good alternative to Temazepam.
I loved it's setting, both in place and time, and the first third was good/mediocre at best.
This is the first of his works that I have read.I am in love *sigh*.The Girl at the Lion D'Or is a love story; but it is also so much more.
I am enchanted by Anne; she is resilient, yet also naïve.
I feel for Charles, caught in a marriage he did not desire, but as a gentleman was obliged to commit to.
There is also a little history of WW1 concerning Anne's father and perhaps Charles or his father, of which we are not yet fully cognisant; and WWII is looming.
This is a beautiful, gentle and evocative read.
She has had a childhood of hardship and tragedy precipitated by a mutinous event in World War I involving her father.
The married Charles Hartmann, an older, wealthy lawyer, becomes involved with Anne.
Will this affair lead to Anne being abandoned again by someone she deeply loves?The historical novel is set against the backdrop of interwar France in the 1930s.
France's government is shaky and plagued by a number of scandals.
As the book closes in Paris, we wonder how both Anne and the country of France will survive the storm.
Its quite a short novel, but its main themes are those of love & despair, set within an historical wrapper which gives a small insight into French Society during the 1930s, detailing through the lives of the various characters in the book the conflict with Germany, French internal social divisions, life under the Popular Front Govt.
He is as much disturbed by the end of the affair as Anne is I think, because he knows deep down what damage this will cause her and the life she had made in that coastal village.
Beautifully written . A timeless love story which for me made the characters back stories and the back drop of 1930s France seem irrelevant.
Sebastian Faulks is turning out to be a bit like Rose Tremain: one brilliant book (Birdsong), one OK book (Charlotte Gray), and the rest ... indifferent. I found myself strangely unengaged by this one, a rather trivial tale compared to the other two. I never really felt involved with the characters, or moved by their feelings, and the ending was fairly predictable. Blah.
It's a relatively short book - only 250 pages long, and from experience with other short stories by Sebastian Faulks ('A Possible Life'), I was sceptical about how developed the story would be.
Previously, I found Faulks skipped over essential events and rushed what could have been a memorable story.
Well, it has lighter moments, but on the whole this novel maintains a murky atmosphere - France is on the brink of WW2 and this fear creeps into the story.
I did enjoy this story and was surprised at some of the cut throat reviews on this book!
Faulks works this story well - my only complaint?
If you are dying for something to read, just so you can look at letters and exercise your brain, then read this. It's like mental jellybeans.
It has taken me about a year to finish this short novel; I just didn't feel anything for the protagonists. I found the prose mostly staid and wooden. The book started off in an interesting manner, but went downhill rapidly for me. I didn't understand the tendency to romanticise men's desires, and then to justify them, whether the circumstances were suitable or not. I also felt like the author hardly tried to probe how women felt about the turmoil in their lives - this, with a female protagonist. I probably shouldn't have begun my Faulks reading with this book.
This was an easy read and I suppose enjoyable but I am not sure why. It wasn't terribly original, not much happens and it doesn't begin to compare to Faulks' other French books and yet I found myself turning page after page. Hmmmm. All I can say with certainty is I'll read more of his work.
To campare Anne from the Lion d'Or with Anna Karenina is perhaps a little forced, but that is what her passion for life and her tragic condition evoked in me.I was also detecting an Erich Maria Remarque flavor, especially of Arc de Triomphe, because the novel deals with the aftermath of the carnage in the trenches of Verdun or Somme.
Faulks allows his characters their moment in the sunshine, waves before them the possibility of redemption through love or through the occasional kindness of strangers.
Anne has a dark secret in her life, one that has made her taciturn and wary of other people.
I've got to give this at least four stars as the book is both beautifully moving & incredibly deep.
By the time I got to end everything he'd been working up to fell in to place and I found myself thinking it was a really beautiful and clever work of art.
I have no doubt that SF is a very talented writer & yet If you read his reviews people either love or loathe his novels (with the exception of Birdsong which seems to have universal appeal.) I was given this copy by a friend who'd given up at the end of part one.
She gets a job at the Lion d'Or as a barmaid, and is thrown into a quick love affair with a man who lives right outside of town.
And Hartmann is a man who seems to disengage from those around him (possibly a side effect of The Great War?).
It's a small book, so you don't really get to know any of the characters all that well.
The book is a kind of snapshot in these two peoples lives.
The historical aspect was kind of cool.
It takes place between the two World Wars, and the political unrest that was in France at the time.
A gentle but sad love story from one of my favourite authors. Just what I needed after a run of new best sellers 3 for 2-ing everywhere.
Anne (view spoiler)[is only traumatized because of her past history of loss, and should really just be accepting of the constant attention of men, because she's pretty and it's her lot in life to have to deal with bumbling sex-crazed oafs.
Bored!(view spoiler)[I was waiting for the moment when Hartmann would realize that what he really liked about Anne was the idea of rescuing her.
Eventually, the author allows that Hartmann really felt more like a savior to Anne than anything else--after he finally, thankfully, ends things with her.
I began reading this having had experience of the best (Birdsong) and the worst (Charlotte Gray) of Faulk's work.
Faulk use of the English language is fantastic, the metaphors and descriptions allow the reader to fully picture how the people and places within the novel look and sound.The central romance of the story was not entirely original, and bore a striking resemblance to the central romances in both Birdsong and On Green Dolphin Street.
However, Faulk has managed to make the characters here likeable.
Something he failed to do in Charlotte Grey.2nd only to Birdsong in the Sebastian Faulk novels I have read
Sebastian Faulks is effective at transporting readers into France during the 1930's. It was interesting to visit Lion D'or and to glimpse into the politics and morals of the day. However, this novel did not live up to his previous novel "Birdsong" which I could not put down. The ending was a bit abrupt, and I could not quite get into the main character's head - but I found the book enjoyable nonetheless.
A good steady read about relationships set between the wars in rural France. I enjoyed the characters but was not really moved by the story as I found it difficult to identify with anyone in particular. Perhaps because I have been fortunate not to have had to experience the effects of war in an direct way.
Loved the writing- the sentences and descriptions! I felt like I was reading a French Downton Abbey!
I'm not the target demographic for this book, but I did enjoy following the story of Anne and Hartmann.Only 2 stars because the integration of history into this romance was at times a bit clumsy... also, more discussion of eczema than one would expect in a love story....
A moving love story set in rural France in the 1930's - well written with strength of characterisation.
Hartmann and Anne both feel themselves to be victims of events whose repetition they are powerless to prevent.It was the depth of characterisation and the depiction of Anne’s emotional life, her passion for Hartmann and her determination to shake off the weight of the past, that resonated most powerfully with readers, many of whom still claim it is their favourite of all Faulks’s novels.About The Reader: James Wilby is a British and was actor was born in 1958 in Rangoon, Burma.
This was a GREAT book; I really enjoyed the story, characters and plot and didn't want it to end.
The second problem was a bit in the novel where the main character, Anne, who is a waitress, hotel maid gets invited to a very swanky, but relaxed weekend in the country with wealthy people.
From Publisher's Weekly: Reading Faulks's second novel (written before Fool's Alphabet, Birdsong and Charlotte Gray), one sees that his preoccupations and choice of genre have been clear from the beginning.
K. in 1989, this is another postmodern historical romance, telling the story of a short-lived but intense love affair set in a France decimated by WWI.
I have read and enjoyed a number of Faulks' novels (i.e. not just Birdsong...) and yet for some reason, after my dad passed on a 'spare' copy he had acquired somehow, I allowed it to languish on my shelves in our apartment, moved house and allowed it to languish some more (approximately one year) on my new shelves in our house.
I don't remember reading a book with characters that felt so real - I found that each character was a complex blend of admirable qualities and flaws, just like they should be.
This book, by Sebastian Faulks, is about a mysterious young woman named Anne Louvet, a Parisian transplant to the French countryside in the 1930s. We don't know a lot about who she is or where she came from, but it's clear she's hiding some secrets from her past.Anne starts working as a waitress in a hotel, the Hotel du Lion d'Or, and meets a cast of characters, including the manageress, a harsh woman who doesn't care for Anne's confident, Parisian manner; Roland, a young man who is creepily in
We don't know a lot about who she is or where she came from, but it's clear she's hiding some secrets from her past.Anne starts working as a waitress in a hotel, the Hotel du Lion d'Or, and meets a cast of characters, including the manageress, a harsh woman who doesn't care for Anne's confident, Parisian manner; Roland, a young man who is creepily interested in Anne; and customers like Monsieur Hartmann, with whom Anne eventually falls in love.Though he's married, she and Hartmann begin a chaotic love affair, and the whole novel is set upon a backdrop of France between two world wars.
Part of this one was the gradual realization of how WW I damaged these characters, even though only one was directly involved, and he only for a short time.
I was particularly taken by this passage spoken by the husband in the affair to a friend, as he is gradually coming to realize there is more going on in his emotions than he had allowed himself to think.
This was the first time I realized my mind was just not large enough to comprehend properly what some other people have felt." This was the first time in the book that I sensed where it was going to go, and how wrenching and difficult the outcome might be for all concerned.
This book was written in the traditional form and reads like a true classic--linear, honest and simple.
First published in 1989, it is entirely devoid of the plot and writing style gimmicks and the attachment to wit and irony that characterize a lot of novels (gearing for Hollywood I suppose) these days.
Faulks is without a doubt a superior writer and a master storyteller.
In the case of this novel (less than 300 pages; not what would normally be considered a page-turner but I devoured it in half a day nevertheless) the plot takes a backseat to let the writing itself--luminous, restrained, impeccable--emerge as the victor.
I wish we had more writers like him these days.
Anne has had a life full of injustice.
She comes to Janvilliers seeking a new life with a new community and to put the past behind her.Getting involved with a married man was not the best of choices, but that is life.
The story of Hartmann and Anne with a third wheel of his wife Christine, on the sidelines and always waiting is a story of love, passion, but with a great deal of sadness.
Very descriptive of everyday life both at the inn and in the surrounding country of the area, the book is full of atmosphere especially of French village life.
Not a book one should read fast.
This isn't my favourite of Sebastian Faulks's novels, but it was a good read nonetheless. It deals with the classic Faulks themes of love and loss, emotions, wonderful historical settings and clever links to his other works. I'm a great fan of his style. The main weakness in my opinion was the ending which was very abrupt, but overall i enjoyed it.
This was the first of the trilogy I believe and the most lightweight although it did tell a lot more than a typical wartime romance. I'd recommend it on the basis of being a good read and good introduction into the other two books, Birdsong and Charlotte Grey.
