https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2602928-a-house-in-the-uplands
A ridiculously overheated melodrama set on a decaying southern plantation, featuring a prideful, spoiled young "aristocrat", his mother who encourages him in those traits, his neglected, weepy wife, their downtrodden servants and field hands, a "modern" cousin, an earthy lower-class tenant...
The author obviously thinks that the black characters, in the words of the modern cousin, "have certain fundamental rights", but his depiction of them is just as clichéed as everything else here, and thus necessarily racist.) The theme of the decline and fall of old power in the south is a familiar one too.
Boy, I really didn't like Erskine Caldwell's "A House in the Uplands." It was all melodrama, and not even fun melodrama at that.Simpering Lucyanne loves her husband, who is a cheating bastard that beats her up. She was such an annoying character that I'm not sure why he would ever have married her in the first place. A series of other one-dimensional characters make weird decisions and declarations to move the story along.I don't know why this is on the 1,001 list frankly.
I nearly killed myself while I was reading this book. 2 thumbs down.
Over dramatized saga of stereotypical characters, but it held my interest. I prefer Faulkner.
It is so badly written and the characters are so hateful I couldn't bring myself to finish it, just endured 40 pages or so.
Malo, sin más.
Urušavanje i propadanje bogate i uticajne porodice na jugu Amerike, koja ne želi da se odrekne snova
“God have mercy on me!” is the most popular refrain of Mama Elsie, Grady’s mother and—if parents can be blamed for turning their children into monsters—the principal author of this modern-day Frankenstein’s Monster, Grady Dunbar. Even Grady would appear to think this when, with his dying breath, he says to Lucyanne, his much-abused wife, on p. 123: “‘I used to try hard, but I couldn’t do anything about it. I guess I was made to be like I am.’” A House in the Uplands  is another Southern saga tol
All of the usual Caldwell elements go into the making of this story: poverty; racism; ignorance; prejudice of every kind.
And in this case, it’s a matter of once wealthy (though now decadent and on the edge of their own poverty) Southern whites versus what these same would-be aristocrats refer to as a “low-white” class.
It’s just one more sorry ingredient in the whole pathetic porridge, and Caldwell is the master-chef at making us taste every nuance of that porridge.RRBBrooklyn, NY20 April 2019
To read this book, to get to know the two-dimensional characters within it, and try to absorb the terrible broken-record dialogue is to hate it.
Misogyny aside, the book is laced with racism that appears there just to reflect the norms of the community in which the story takes place and hammer it into our heads that Grady is a drunken racist in too many passages.
There is but one scene worth reading (the exchange between the lawyer and the judge), but by then it had been an exercise simply to finish the book than anything else.
Stay away.
Far away.
A per usual, a very quick and easy read, a typical Caldwell style read and book. I felt for the wife in the story, but, generally as a rule of thumb, I find that once I have read one Caldwell book, the rest are pretty well, the same.
A rather depressing account of the paupered South with egntlemen turned into gamblers and chivalry into cruelty towards women.
Well 3 stars means that I liked it, hum , well, I did not put it down after starting it until I finished it. There was nothing great about it, no great characters with great minds or deep thoughts which is normal for Caldwell. But as he always is able to do, he captured the feelings of the times in Georgia of the dying ruling families. I do not think the author spent too much time in writing this book.
