https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32796253-final-girls
In this book, Quincy Carpenter is one of those Final Girls.
Shortly after, yet another Final Girl - Samantha Boyd - shows up at Quincy's home.The first two thirds-ish of the book is so so sloooowwwww.
In the present, Quincy spent her time baking cupcakes and angsting over the past that she doesn't remember, and having the most dull disagreements with Jeff the bore.
And, of course, the Pine Cabin massacre is not all it first appears.But then the ending happened and I felt let down again.
And in the final ( <--- heh ) picture, we have the freaking awesome black colored outer edges.
I'm glad I stick to my guns and read what I want because there were mixed reviews on this one.
And don't be coming on my review saying how much you didn't like the book.
I just read about final girls and something about a killer.
Quincy is the main character in this book because she just is and Lisa has some stuff and then Sam comes in and she's all in some stuff with Quincy.
Then Quincy starts remembering things!
Who can Quincy trust and will she totally remember the events of that terrible night she endured many years ago.You just don't know where this story is going at times it's so well plotted and written - just when you think you may have worked everything out you realise in the final chapters you are so wrong!
Twists and turns will keep you guessing all the way!There's two stories running alongside each other, the present day Quincy and the unfolding events that occurred the night she survived her ordeal at Pine Cottage with the horrid anticipation of what's going to happen clearly palpable.
3.5 starsI feel like the past 13 reviews I have written have been tough; they all are books that I don’t want to spoil for the reader and am having trouble putting the proper wording forward to describe my feelings.
All this to say, I’m glad I skipped ahead before reading the entire book as it allowed me to enjoy the journey just as much as the conclusion.Being the huge fan of slasher films that I am, I was thrilled to see that this story stuck to the traditional formula that we find in movies such as Scream (my personal favorite) and Halloween.
As Quincy recovers her lost memories and slowly unravels the truth of what really happened all those years ago at Pine Cottage, it becomes clear there was one major detail that everyone got wrong about that night.Despite all outward appearances—her baking blog, swanky apartment and relationship with a successful guy—Quincy is a mess.
With social media making news stories like this so readily available, these chicks would have had their fifteen-minutes of fame and the world would have moved on to the next crime.
Again, the author might have stuck to the proven slasher flick formula by pulling out a surprise ending, but it only helped to redeem the story in my eyes.
The beginning was a bit slow and the ending was a little overstimulating, but nonetheless, I was engaged and interested the whole time.
Also, I feel the ending did get a bit muddled.
I'm not trying to invalidate survivors of trauma because dissociative amnesia is a real thing, but it can only be done so many times in literature until it feels like the easy way out.I would definitely recommend to readers new to the thriller genre like myself.
It's a fast, chilling read that is easy to enjoy.
Are you under the impression that FINAL GIRLS is about a horror movie?
Not interested in a horror movie remake.Well, I'm proud to announce that FINAL GIRLS is not about a movie.
A final girl is the sole survivor of a horrific murder scene.
Movies like Halloween and Scream inevitably end with a final girl left standing.
Author Riley Sager has written a startling story about three final girls (all survivors of different gruesome scenes) who eventually have their separate lives intersect under troublesome circumstances.Quincy Carpenter, aside from having a cute name, is a final girl.
hurray.the good:-the main character, quincy, runs a baking blog and it's really cute - you should know by now that sweets are a passion of mine so that's exciting-neither of my 2 guesses for what The Big Reveal™ would be were exactly right (i really care about two things in a thriller: i want to have fun guessing the ending and i want my guesses to be wrong, and i want to be scared.
and it's IMPOSSIBLE to get a grip on who the hell Quincy is.-when things start to come together (FINALLY) in the last third, it's, well...it's not great.
A hungry media have dubbed Quinn Carpenter, Lisa Milner and Samantha Boyd, the infamous Final Girls, a term derived from horror movies for the last woman standing in a bloodbath where a serial killer has murdered everyone else.
She is scared by Lisa's death and the myriad of implications it might have for her.Quinn receives a visit from Sam Boyd whom she invites to stay in her apartment.
It has a compelling narrative that grips, you get drawn into into the shaky and unreliable world of Quinn Carpenter.
The three girls want nothing more than to put their lives back together and somehow shake the memories that haunt them, as well as the guilt that they survived when their friends or others did not."Even before Pine Cottage, I never liked to watch scary movies because of the fake blood, the rubber knives, the characters who made decisions so stupid I guiltily thought they deserved to die.
It turns out that the bulk of the plot for the first while is just Quinn coping with what happened to her, getting to know her asshole public defender boyfriend, her Super-McSteamy-cop-who's-clearly-in-love-with-me-but-of-course-I-don't-want-to-sleep-with-him-who-me-nope-no-way-teehee savior Coop, finding out that the oldest "Final Girl" has just mysteriously committed suicide, and meeting the middle "Final Girl", Sam, who is established as being Pretty Freaking Strange from the get-go.The second half of the book is a slew of twists and turns that mostly just didn't make a whole lot of sense and/or felt super predictable.
I read a lot of these books, watch a lot of stories, and i’ve turned into one of those annoying people that guess the ending and accidentally ruin films/tv shows for other people by pointing out the probable culprit or plot direction early on.
I was guessing madly as each snippet of information revealed by the author twisted the narrative in a new direction, or tantalisingly offered a seemingly innocent action or comment that was, in fact, a massively huge, big fat red herring.
It’s all these things together that make this a masterpiece of the genre and it deserves to be one of the big books of 2017.Get hold of it if you can...
No.Okay than on to the review.I've been wanting to read Final Girls for awhile, I've also been putting off reading Final Girls.
I like to keep my expectations low, I find I enjoy the book more that way.
So I only read 1 & 2 star reviews for this book and they all said it was boring, nothing happened, that it had no action, & that it wasn't what they thought it would be.
So I went in with very low expectations, plus I was coming off of 2 books I really didn't like/hated.
Ten years ago she went away with a group of friends to a cabin in the woods (sounds like the setting for a horror movie) to celebrate the birthday of a friend.
Everyone that weekend was murdered, Quincy was attacked as well, but survived her ordeal only to not remember what happened.
Sam wants Quincy to remember what happened the night she was attacked.
Reading this book was like watching a really good horror film/psychological thriller and I do mean that as a compliment!
The reader is given glimpses into what happened ten years ago at the cottage as Quincy ,in the present day, is going about her life.
“Final girls is film-geek speak for the last woman standing at the end of a horror movie.”Quincy was the one and only survivor of a horrible massacre that took the lives of her close friends.
The media eats it up and gives her the nick-name “A final girl.” They follow up by aligning her with 2 other well-known F.G. survivors.
When a recent tragic event brings one of the F.G. girls literally to Quincy’s front door, the peaceful world she has slowly re- built for herself is beginning to spiral out of control.Very well written thriller.
4.5*You can find my review along with Brenda’s on Norma and Brenda's fantastic book blog: http://www.twogirlslostinacouleereadi...
Yay!Final Girls is an entertaining, fast paced, and a suspenseful psychological thriller that played out like a slasher horror film in my head.
Leading me down a cringe-worthy path of twists and turns that had me guessing right to the very end.
The story is mostly told from Final Girl Quincy who is the only survivor of a mass murder.
The chapters alternate from her perspective and from scenes of the night of the murders allowing me to see the events of the night along with some things that Quincy can’t remember.
Well that took me on quite the damn ride.
In a culture of bespoke…..well, everything, Riley Sager’s Final Girls seemed tailor-made for this horror fangirl.
In Riley Sager’s book, she takes the Final Girls trope and translates it to a real-world setting.
Final Girls centers around Quincy Carpenter, the lone survivor of ‘The Pine Cottage Murders,’  a horrific event (almost like it’s ripped from a horror movie….BUM BUM BUM) where all her college besties were brutally stabbed to death.
There’s clear reference to multiple horror movie tropes.
The present day Quincy-Samantha storyline plays out another familiar horror trope, that of the standard Single White Female.
So basically…..Final Girls was readable.
so why, do you ask, did i read a book where a girl practically lived in one?
which i honestly didnt mind but, having been marketed as horror and even endorsed by stephen king, i was expecting at least one bad dream afterwards.
i thought it was well-written, the characters were decent, and there was always something going on that kept me guessing.
it got to the point where i really wanted to know what was going on, so i was practically speed reading through everything!
it wasnt without its flaws, but i suppose all books have them.
Quincy hates being coined as one of them, the “Final Girls.” It’s a small club and of course, it’s not one anyone wants to become a member of.
Lisa was in college when she lost members of sorority; Sam was working at an Inn when it was attacked.
Somehow, Quincy has managed to put the events of that fateful day behind her, thanks to Xanax, Grape Soda and her baking career, that is of course, until Lisa is found dead and Sam shows up on her doorstep.
Sam’s invasion vibrates like a proverbial earthquake, as she works to jar loose the memories Quincy has locked away, which has her smoking, drinking, and swallowing excessive amounts of Xanax, and exhibiting bizarre behavior.
Thus, begins a flip flop between the past and the present as Quincy finds herself forced to face her past and finally confronting her lost memories, revealing the identity of the person she has been trying so hard to forget.
In my opinion, the suspense is psychologically layered and does have one good twist, I did not figure out in advance.
Quincy Carpenter, Lisa Milner, and Samantha Boyd are three women that have all been involved in a brutal massacre.
These three women have never met but of course know of one another due to all the press and social media following their stories.
The relationship starts to take a strange and sinister turn......I was definitely entertained the entire novel and was left on the edge of seat for the last 40 percent of the book.
I did feel like there were some cheesy aspects to the thriller and caught myself rolling my eyes a few times but overall it was a consuming read!
It really created a lot of pulsing suspense and I couldn't decide if I wanted more present day or flash-back information.
I really enjoyed the character development in this and I think Sager did an excellent job creating a story that not only makes us question the protagonist but makes us want to root for them whether or not they end up being the "good guy".I did not see the ending coming from a mile away - despite the fact that the entire book throws everything that's been decided into question.
If you're looking for a terrific literary take on what happens after the credits roll on a slasher film, I highly recommend reading Kealan Patrick Burke's novel, KIN.
About 342 pages too long, if you ask me.Other than the fact that nothing happens in this book (seriously, there's only two scenes of plot development in the entire book, while the rest of it details baking, characters getting drunk on Wild Turkey or high on Xanax, and a pointless love triangle no one asked for), the biggest issue you'll likely have with it is that the book constantly writes checks its ass cannot cash.
We were, for whatever reason, the lucky ones who survived when no one else had. Pretty girls covered in blood. As such, we were each in turn treated like something rare and exotic. A beautiful bird that spreads its bright wings only once a decade. Or that flower that stinks like rotting meat whenever it decides to bloom.  3.5 Stars. Quincy Carpenter is the lone survivor of the Pine Cottage Massacre, making her the third member of an elite group that nobody wants to join: the Final Girls. Lisa M
Quincy Carpenter is the lone survivor of the Pine Cottage Massacre, making her the third member of an elite group that nobody wants to join: the Final Girls.
Lisa Milner, Samantha Boyd, and Quincy each endured real-life horrors and survived against all odds.
After the news of Lisa's death becomes public, Sam emerges from hiding and shows up on Quincy's doorstep.
Will Sam's presence help Quincy remember what really happened that night at Pine Cottage?
As Quincy reads articles about Lisa's death, she gets a glimpse of what her own obituary will look like.
If you enjoy that type of story (and then some) you should definitely pick up this book before the end of the month.
I am giving this four stars instead of five because I usually only give five stars to books that I would read again and I don't think I would reread this one.
I feel this book would translate well into a movie actually.
Overall, I think this was very well done and I definitely want to read the book Riley Sager is set to release later this year, Last Time I Lied - if it is anything as good as this, I know it will be a wild ride!
Any book that has me wondering what’s next the whole time gets some bonus points from me.Apart from the creative angle and the twists and turns that kept me guessing, for me, it was just okay.
it all depends on how much you are okay with kinda meh characters that don’t really develop a whole lot and plot points that are a bit of a stretch.
If you can get past these things and like stories with a bit of suspense, go for it!Side note: According to this article the author is actually Todd Ritter.
oh. my. holy. SHIT.I honestly don't think there's a better phrase to describe this book...I   LOVED   it. Fucking. Wonderful.Final Girls was brutal, violent, and wicked fun.I honestly can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book as much as I did with this one. I love horror movies, especially slashers movies. They're always fun, but undeniably repetitive.When I heard the concept of this book, a group of 'final' girls being stalked and murdered one by one per slasher murder trope, my interest wa
Wonderful.Final Girls was brutal, violent, and wicked fun.I honestly can't remember the last time I enjoyed a book as much as I did with this one.
Despite still using and playing with the same tropes and points we've seen in other horror books and movies, Riley Sager manages to play and use it to his best advantage.
I would, however, just once, o n c e, would LOVE to see this particular trope tweaked, with a slight twist: surviving boys instead of girls.
This is the story of Quincy Carpenter, a "final girl".
The final girl has been observed in many films including Alien and Halloween" sourceThe story is told from the point of view of Quincy, and it alternates between her present life and flashbacks from the past.
It has all the elements that a good mystery should have like complex characters, good pacing and an interesting story.
a final note, the book started by describing the main character baking chocolate-cherries cupcakes and that grabbed my attention right away.
Baking goods and murder, you know the book is going to be good.
I have the HUGE pleasure of working as a publicist for this book at my job, so I won't be reviewing it anywhere. (That would be a conflict of interest!) I'll just say, I'm totally thrilled/humbled/excited to be working on this beauty!!
