https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7932.Baby_Island
My wife read this book to me while I was driving on a roadtrip.
Her mom had found her childhood copy and sent it to her.
It has to be one of the most awesomely bad books ever written.
It's intended for children of course, but that doesn't make it any less terrible.
It's some screwy adventure tale of two young sisters on a sinking ocean liner who end up alone in a life boat with two or three babies.
IT'S LIKE A DREAM COME TRUE!
Its awful, and totally worth the read.
It's pretty unrealistic (seriously, the babies don't cry for much of anything, a tooth pops up right over the course of an afternoon, and there are no diaper changes in sight), but it's such a fun little story. I had to laugh at how long the milk supply managed to hold out...that was apparently quite the stash! But the story itself was a fun read and an enjoyable way to spend a tired-out evening.
Oh great God! I can't believe this book is listed! I read Baby Island over and over when I was a child. I still talk about it to little kids and they all want to read it. I'm going to have to buy it. I wonder if it's as marvelous as I remember. What was not to love? Intrepid girls, charged with the care of several babies, marooned on an island! I didn't worry about those girls for one minute. I wanted to be them. A great read for a young girl.
I remember my sister Teresa reading this to me one summer when Mom decided we needed to have a "rest time" every afternoon. We loved it--Baby Island, I mean, not "rest time". I just read it to Lizzy and Katie and they loved it. It appeals to the baby love that we females are born with. Since I recently read Lord of the Flies, Baby Island struck me as extremely implausible, but is a fun read.
This is the first book that I remember reading on my own. I was in third grade and loved it! 5 star for a very young girl.Just read it again and it is darling.
Read it on an airplane. Good, wholesome, baby-island fun. No revelations, but surely a happier way to spend a few hours than watching the new Miley Cyrus movie.
I saved every penny I earned so I could buy this book in the 6th grade at book fair in school. This was the book that started it all for me. This book opened up a love for reading in me. It is still a cherrished and greatly loved book by me and I can not wait to share my old tattered copy with my granddaghter in a few years. THANK YOU Carol Ryrie Brink!
Yeah, this is sort of a weird book. I get that. But I don't care. It will always have a very affectionate spot in my heart. This is the edition I had when I was a kid, and I remember always thinking that the blond girl on the cover, who I think is the big sister, looks like Tina Yothers. Love this book no matter what. (But I probably won't re-read it -- I don't need any bubbles burst.)
I have fond memories of reading this. It evokes cozy and warm feels.
There were times when they couldn't find enough food and again I had to stop to explain I don't know why the books said a two year old couldn't digest food such as a tin of beans and seemed to live mainly on cow's milk.
We also found it unrealistic that a a 12yr old girl should be completely obsessed with being a mother before and on the island, even to a child this seemed not right and seemed to suggest she had had to grow up to soon and was trýing to fill a role she felt was useful to be loved.
I checked this book out from the library so many times as a young girl that the librarian eventually just gave me the book. I still have it in my home library.
Awesomely bad pretty much sums it up. A ridiculous story, but at the same time a really, really fun read. It was a favorite in my childhood, and after a reread, it's still a keeper.
I determined, however, that it is these types of references (the girls often sing "Scots, Wha Hae Wi' Wallace Bled" to bolster their spirits, with all the Gaelic spellings) that make this book a good read-aloud for my daughter, rather than something for her to trudge through on her own.
:) Finally, I admonished myself a few times as I read, since my grown-up perspective was trying to get in the way of believing that two young girls could care so well for themselves and four babies on the open sea and on a desert island.
It takes place in the pacific ocean where Jean and Mary 10 and 12 find themselves in charge of 4 little children after a shipwreck.
They hope to find an island so that they can find food and shelter, Jean starts to doubt that they ever will.
After being questioned on her knowledge that they will run into an island Mary responds "because shipwrecked people always do, why, the public library at home is just full of books about shipwrecked people who landed on tropical islands.
Of course, we might be a little late, like the Interurban cars used to be at home." I rather enjoyed this story.
I loved this when I was little, though being Jewish, even then I was uncomfortable with the fact that the characters are missionaries. But I think every child has a shipwrecked on an island and living in a treehouse fantasy, and this certainly appeals to that. And it introduced me to the word "hardtack," the meaning of which I'm still unsure about.
This was one of my very favorites as a kid. Although I'm sure it can't possibly be as good as I remember, but I'd love to read it again, just for the nostalgia.
There is some hinting at the problem with the many times Mary and Jean are washing Pink and Blue's outfits but it's done in such a saccharine way that being stuck on an island with a handful of young children and limited supplies seems like such a magical adventure.After the initial at sea disaster where the children were genuinely scared and aware of how much danger they were in, the book began to bore me.
I read this book with four 4th and 5th grade girls, who selected it themselves as our first intramural book club pick.
And I have to admit, I think this is more of a girl book than a boy book...that's not to say that boys might not enjoy the story, but I don't think they'd pick it out to read, as the protagonists are females and their main dilemma is how to care for four babies.
All in all, this one is well-worth a read and was a nice selection for an upper elementary book club.
I would recommend it for children (girls especially) ages 8 and up.
I spent the winter I was seven curled up with this book.
I ordered it from a book order, and I loved it!
I was a bit confused by it because it was written in the 1930s and people carry handkerchiefs and think chocolate is a major treat.
I always thought it came from a different country.
Two girls are stranded on an island with four babies.
They eventually find and befriend a grumpy man who came to the island to get away from babies.
Not great literature or anything, but a good adventure story, especially for someone who has two baby siblings.
As a adult I see a lot wrong with this book, realism wise. However, I read this book over and over and over again in late elementary school. I was a favorite for a long time, so my 10 year old self give is 5 stars; my adult self, not quite so many.
This book is actually quite terrible--unbelievable, ridiculous, and contrived--but I read it so many times when I was a kid (ha, and even acted it out with my sister and our dolls--I was Mary...) that I'm fond of it even so.
This was another favorite of mine when I was a kid. I really liked the storyline and how the two girls cared for the babies.
https://ibb.co/cGqcfxCheck out that masterful baby hold When their lifeboat is prematurely jettisoned, they end up Swiss Family Robsinson style on an island that perfectly meets their needs.
But don't worry, they do find an adult--a grizzled nine-toed man who moved to the island to escape, you guessed it, babies.
https://ibb.co/h6pjtHJust feeding a baby goat rum.
https://ibb.co/k6q7DHSiblings?
This seaman moves to the island to escape nagging women and babies, only gets mail every two years, and his allegedly smoking hot bar wench girlfriend STILL WRITES TO HIM?!
Let's not even get in to the absurd rescue at the end.
I read this in the 1980s — several times. It was one of my absolute favorites!!! I’ve been meaning to re-read though I’m afraid I’ll lose the magic. I mean nine-toed grumpy old man, two girls, a bunch of babies, a shipwreck? That’s some high concept. It’s like babysitter’s club meets Robinson Crusoe!
This was one of my favorite books as a child. It is the story of two young girls who are shipwrecked alone with 4 babies! The girls are sweet and very motherly and do a fantastic job of caring for the children in a survivial situation. As a baby-obsessed girl myself, I found this story to be a fairy-tale! I just read it again as an adult and found it to be quite as charming as I remembered, though perhaps slightly idealistic. I'm excited for my 8-year-old to read it now!
I read this one long ago! I am sure that my Grandma Hansen gave it to me for Christmas! When your grandma is a librarian you get a lot of really good books for every holiday and special occasion! I love the this story because it is so intense. I think it is great how the older girls are so resourceful and work together to take care of the little children. And then to have a happy ending! Even better! It almost sound like a fun adventure to have!
I loved this book when I read it in the summer of 1950 before entering third grade. I loved babies and the idea of being shipwrecked with 4 of them ... Heaven. This book was responsible for my love of reading. I could never get any of my there daughters to read it, though, in spite of a generous bribe. I still re-read it occasionally and enjoy it just as much though my tastes have evolved. I love the quaint language and the illustrations. Maybe I can get my granddaughters to read it.
I read this when I was about 10. I'm sure it is the most improbable story ever written, but I LOVED it. I read it over and over until it finally got lost when we moved from California to Oregon. I've wanted to find a copy ever since so I could revisit it. And really, It's by the same author as Caddie Woodlawn, how truly terrible can it be?
I remember absolutely loving this book as a child. Probably around 1968. I mean I felt like I wanted to hug this book to pieces I loved it so much! And isn't that everything a child's book should be?
This was to me one of the sweetist cutiest little stories I have ever read!I really think everyone should at lest read this once...It's not about anything really special just two girls takeing care of children on an island and there adventures.
