https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74776.Sound_of_Thunder
With the focus still strongly on Sean, the story opens as the lead-up to the Second Boer War is imminent.
Sean eventually realised that Ruth is married to his fellow soldier, Saul, and they battle together until the latter's death.
While the reader has seen only snippets of Garrick, Sean has become a central character of the two novels and his decisions, while not entirely neutral, have helped shape the story and everyone around the table.
It is fascinating to see how Smith moves the story forward with the help of history and the subplots with which Sean is involved.
Sean heads into Johannesburg to cash in on his ivory and collect a substantial savings he had deposited in the bank.
The Sound of Thunder is a story rich in these human frailties.
This story is engrossing but at a little slower pace than some of the more adventure oriented books.
When they have been apart for some time, they greet each other by saying "I see you." This is a rich and complex relationship that I think could have been explored a little more.
There are graphic battle scenes where horses (and men) do not fare well.
I think the two books are make up one big epic story.
The follow-up to Smith's first book, WHEN THE LION FEEDS, is a continuation of the same story following the cliffhanger that the first novel ended upon.We learn more about Sean Courtney's life at Ladyburgh, his experiences in the 2nd Boer War and finally the next Courtney generation, i.e. his children by various mothers.In my mind, the book falls into three sections.
The details of the battles are what make up this lengthy section, although it's not quite as compelling as some of the author's other work - I found the section on the stock exchange in WHEN THE LION FEEDS to be more exciting than the actual warfare in this book, for instance.
This book seems firmly in the camp that heroes are heroes and bad seeds are bad seeds.
You can figure out the good guys and bad guys easily- no shades of gray.
Sean is clearly good.
Early in the book, he meets a woman named Rachel who's trying to get back to her husband- they have been separated by enemy lines.
Sean hasn't seen a woman for a while, so he instantly falls in love with her.
She thinks it's a bad idea, but then there's a storm...
I don't think the scenes were done very convincingly.
Read By: John Cartwright Duration: 15:13Description: The game was war. The prize was a land. The penalty for defeat was death. A vibrant tale of war; of love and hatred between brothers, friends, father and son, and man and woman. The commanding figure of Sean Courtney, develops from the headstrong adventurer of "When the lion feeds", into a seasoned soldier and leader of men.
Once again we follow the Courtney brothers as they work they way through life, Sean especially as he tries to regain his fortune before finding himself back in the army and trying to keep some semblance of himself, for better or worse.
Garrick makes less of an appearance until arriving a little after halfway through when old grudges continue to cloud his judgement making Sean look like a reasonable guy (a shock in itself).
The use of real historical events once again makes this all the more real and gives the story an extra edge.
Another good story from Smith. Fairly similar to the last one except that this had a lot more warfare and a lot less adventuring. I think for this reason I preferred When the Lion Feeds to Sound of Thunder. I also found the main love story here a bit silly and unbelievable. Still, overall it was written well and quite fun to read.
Such a good series, I can't stop reading!
Feel I should have brushed up on my Boer War History before attempting this.
I am also finding myself annoyed with Garrick and Sean.
The misunderstanding as to what happened between Anna and Sean is wearing thin and I am almost certain that only at the end will it all be resolved.
Am still going to plough through, even though I keep falling asleep before I have read a couple of pages.Still didn't enjoy the rest of the book, even after the war ended.
Sean didn't seem ti understand his son or pay attention to him.
Ended on a predictable note.
I could not put this book down. The first book in this series, When the Lion Feeds, was an instant favorite for me. This book made me fall in love with the Courtney's at an entirely new level. Every emotion represented so clearly through a family I became so connected to.
While not quite as good as the preceding book, When the Lion Feeds, lots of action, adventure, and larger than life characters made this an entertaining page turner.
I liked the beginning and I liked the end. The war was stretched out, though. It was difficult to care about.
Great old time adventure. I'll be reading more in this series by Wilbur Smith.
I admit that during the first book I was interested in what Garrick was doing whilst Sean was out and about and having his adventures, but given what we see of him here I can see why no major page time is devoted to Garrick.
The fact that the two brothers-in-law clashed multiple times across the field of battle was interesting - especially as it gave a different viewpoint to the Boer War than we got from Garrick and his elitist ilk.
It's made me want to try and read the Boer War book anyway...
Having starting (and enjoying) “Birds of Prey”, #9 , and then a number of the subsequent books in the series order – I think I got up to #11 – I went back to pick up the early ones I missed.
I was looking for swashbuckling sailing ship or exploratory wilderness reads and instead I got the dropping, centuries later, into the Zulu and Boer Wars.
It was just a surprise (and I should have spent some time on Wikipedia trying to understand series order).Anyway … the story the Courtney’s continues from the prior book.
Nevertheless, I don’t think I’ll be reading any more books in this series.
Die hoofkarakter Sean Courtney, ‘n amperse karikatuur van die alfa-man-held wat oral waar hy kom die natuur, vyande en beeldskone vroue ewe gemaklik oorwin, oorleef en ‘n vreemde stryd met sy broer, die skynheilige, haatdraende Garry, voortsit.
Soos die verhaal ontplooi, kom allerhande vriende en vyande na vore, want Sean is geen diplomaat nie en mense hou van hom of haat hom; skynbaar is daar skaars ‘n middeweg as dit by dié bobaas vegter en minnaar kom.
En al sy passievrugte, soos by sy einste broer se vrou én sy beste vriend s’n, skyn eenvoudig deel van die legende van Sean Courtney te wees.
Esta segunda entrega de la saga de los Courtney comienza en el punto que quedó la anterior, y vemos cómo Sean se enfrenta a todo lo que le depara el destino, encargándose del cuidado de Dirk, huyendo en cierta forma al medio de la nada, y luego luchando por defender su lugar.
El desarrollo de la vida de Sean y su familia, de vuelta en Ladyburg, trae más drama, amores y conquistas a los personajes, y deja con ganas de dar unos cuantos sermones y latigazos.
The continuing adventures of Sean Courtney.Unlike the meandering storyline of When a Lion Feeds, The Sound of Thunder concentrates on one aspect of African history, The second Boer War. The early parts of the book are action packed as Sean becomes embroiled in the Battle of Colenso and the Battle of Spion Kop. During this you see other sides to Sean, making him a more complex character than the action man of When a Lion Feeds.
And there is still room for action man Sean, as tries single handedly to win the Boer War. I loved that part of the story.
Vlammend veld, heftig hart is het tweede deel van de Courtney-trilogie. Het verhaal speelt zich voor een groot deel af tijdens de Boerenoorlog die aan het eind van de 19e en het begin van de 20e eeuw in Zuid-Afrika werd uitgevochten. Sean Courtney meldt zich bij het Britse leger en maakt daarin snel carriÃre. Samen met Saul Friedman, waarmee hij vriendschap sluit, voert hij een harde strijd tegen de Boeren. Na de oorlog keert Sean terug naar Leeuwenkop waar hij zich vooral bezighoudt met het pla
Vlammend veld, heftig hart is het tweede deel van de Courtney-trilogie.
Het verhaal speelt zich voor een groot deel af tijdens de Boerenoorlog die aan het eind van de 19e en het begin van de 20e eeuw in Zuid-Afrika werd uitgevochten.
Na de oorlog keert Sean terug naar Leeuwenkop waar hij zich vooral bezighoudt met het planten van acacia's.
En gaat Sean, die inmiddels met Ruth Friedman, de weduwe van Saul, getrouwd is, de politiek in.
Net als het eerste deel van de trilogie is ook dit boek ook weer een genot om te lezen.
En na het lezen van dit deel, wil je eigenlijk meteen weer aan het volgende beginnen.
Wilbur Smith spins a good tale that combines a rich layer of African culture and vistas with the unfolding of history and the wreck of human relationships.
I read it for the background on the Boer War and the movement toward South African nationhood, but not for the characters.
Perhaps I should be more lenient towards his flawed characters which are somewhat Shakespearean in their tragic personalities, but his depiction of the main hero, Sean Courtney raises my hackles.I do not enjoy reading about his conquests of married women when I am expected to admire his magnetic appeal, flamboyance and powerful abilities in most areas of his life.
After reading the first book in this series, I wasn't sure I would read the second book.
But book #1 ended on a cliffhanger, and I had to keep reading.
I devoured this book in one afternoon and couldn't put it down!This book moves at a quick pace and continues the saga of the Courtney family.
Dripping with emotion, it made me cry, cheer and feel angry - the ability to invoke emotions is a true sign of a good book, in my opinion.
I will definitely keep reading this series.
Note: The book does contain some cursing, sexual content and graphic war/death scenes.
Hot of the back of reading When the Lion feeds I don't think I have read a book as fast as this one.After my first taste of Wilbur Smith I decided I would continue on with the books having absolutely loved the first one.This book builds and moves in different tones from the first one and is very much a dedicated continuation of the first one. Fantastic second entry into the series and highly recommended.
This is a good romp through a period of South Africa’s history. Most of the story revolves around Sean Courtney’s participation in the Second Anglo-Boer War (1899-1902). Of course as the hero of the story he always wins the battles, the girl, the money and everything else. Always with panache, daring, courage, and a little self reflection. A good read.
In questo libro c'è ricerca, e una quasi maniacale precisione storica che, mescolata agli eventi del romanzo, crea una storia interessante, coinvolgente e anche alquanto interessante per sapere un po' di più sul periodo della guerra anglo-boera in Sudafrica.Alcune descrizioni delle battaglie sono probabilmente un po' troppo lunghe e dettagliate, ma è perdonabile.
Continuano le avventure del grande Sean.Un po' lento nella prima metà, ma nella seconda lo si legge tutto d'un fiato.Ottimo romanzo, intrecci mozzafiato e colpi di scena del tutto inaspettati.Wilbur non delude.
Easy to read and a regular sine wave of ups and downs.
Insipid
GreatAttention to detail is great and it's never predicatable. I couldn't put it down. Great writer. Can't wait to start next one.
Compelling story.
Ok not as good as first.
