https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/775346.The_Little_Friend
The only thing keeping this novel together is the binding.
--------------I finished this book last night and when I read the final sentence, my mouth dropped open slightly, the book dropped from my hand onto the floor and I rolled over, squeezing my eyes shut in hopes that I would go immediately to sleep and not come on Goodreads and spew forth wtf's.This woman knows how to write.
So unbelievable that I spent the entire book literally saying out loud, Oh.My.God, in reference to her superb ability to spew forth wonderfully crafted sentences and paragraphs about nothing.
it's really nothing like any other book that I have read.
The opening chapter is stellar and haunting -- so much so that I slogged through 500+ pages on its promise alone.
Anyone beginning this novel will (rightly so) expect a Southern Gothic murder mystery.
However, Tartt takes unforgivable advantage of her linguistic flair, so much so that the suspense totally evaporates, and the true engine of the novel (the mystery and romance of the murdered brother) essentially gets lost among innumerable, inconsequential, floridly written digressions, all of which do nothing to advance the narrative.
I sort of want to scream when I read lukewarm reviews of this book.
Admittedly, people may get the wrong idea when they read the back jacket, or the first few pages, and anticipate some sort of murder mystery thrill.The death of Harriet's brother is merely background for her character.
The skill with which Tartt explores the inner workings and thought processes of a virtually abandoned 12 year old girl whose older brother's murder has never been solved cannot be praised highly enough.
Tartt seems to have magically leaped over that crevasse that seperates us from our youth, and from understanding the mysterious social workings of 12 year olds.I found this book, though lengthy, to be absolutely riveting.
I want to know who killed Robin.
Here's the thing: since Donna Tartt is basically a genius (see The Secret History, a more wrapped-up and concentrated story, and my favorite of the two Tartt novels), I've convinced myself that she has, in fact, figured out who the killer is.
Not only that, I think she reveals who the killer is through a hundred little clues and details hidden throughout the book, and we as the readers are supposed to prove our worth by locating these clues, putting them all together, and solving the mystery.
I'm not worthy!" will you please, please throw a thickheaded reader a bone and tell me who killed Robin?
The girl with the antique-sounding name and possessor of an "old soul." She has a gruff, common sense approach to life that eschews flattery and wins her few fans among her peers and relatives.In vain, the aunts tried to teach her to be polite.
And if I tell her I like it, she's just going to keep on giving it to me."You certainly can't argue with that logic.Harriet was just a babe, plopped down in a wind-up swing, when her 9-year-old brother was murdered in the family's yard during a Mother's Day celebration.Now, her older sister mostly sleeps and cries.
But I loved The Secret History and I just know that Donna Tartt is a good writer.
The descriptions Donna Tartt uses are long and sometimes it takes pages and nothing really happens.
But, as another reviewer said, boy, does Donna Tartt know how to write, eventhough nothing much really happens.
And at some point, I just concluded I needed this book besides my bed, to read a couple of pages every day, slow and taking in all the detail.
Donna Tartt is a great, talented writer.
Already looking forward to the next book of Donna Tartt.
While I am still puzzled as to who is the "little friend" referred to in the title (Hely?) and the choreography of the end at the water tank was confusing, nonetheless this was an exciting page-turner and I feel that the protagonist Harriet was compelling.
And again the theme of persistent memory:"Melancholy black drips of decay streaked the tank's facade from top to bottom - but even though it wasn't really there any more, the devil face, still it burned in Harriet's memory, like a light's afterburn ina recently darkened room." (P.
Thus it can take pages for two characters to exchange four lines of dialogue.
In this novel she also gives me too many characters.
There’s a compelling portrait of a black housekeeper – not the usual sentimentalised fairy godmother figure of Hollywood who adores her little white wards but a mother so pinched by poverty and exploited by the family that she has little real affection to spare.
Tartt is also a master at creating suspense.
In fact the best parts of this novel were those depicting the inescapable claustrophobia and loneliness of life in an environment that has been forsaken.
The people: a collection of doting, aging great-aunties, a pre-teen boy who will do anything to impress his girl pal, and a gruff housekeeper who smells like love.Like her other two books, this one is lengthy, but is blessed with the same incredible storytelling I've come to expect from Tartt.
A few things were more than a little odd - the cover with the creepy old doll head - WHY?
I wonder if Ms. Tartt had any say in either of these decisions.The only thing I'm unhappy with at the end of this engrossing coming-of-age story, is that I've run out of books to read by Donna Tartt.
I gave this book three stars only because of the author's ability to use mood, setting, and descriptive in an incredibly amazing way.
But seriously, Hattie McDaniel died a long time ago and I'm really not sure they'll be able to find a Black Mammy stock actor to play Ida in the made-for-tv movie (on a side note, I think that Jenna Malone is too old for Harriet, but the mental casting the author did was really dead-on).
I still don't think she's a bad writer, she's actually quite talented and has a real knack for creating mood...but man, learn when to fire that damned gun Ms. Tartt!
I hate the word "evocative," because it seems terribly pretentious…like “terribly pretentious” doesn’t sound pretentious at all, jeez, but this book is that.
My childhood was nothing like Harriet's (maybe a little in that I spent a lot of time alone and got to where I preferred it that way), but I can remember feeling the way she feels, that anger and boredom and terror.
This is gothic, epic, real deep-down Suddenly Last Summer stuff, and it earns its flowers.I’ve read a few reviews saying nothing happens.
Since I’ve always lived in my head, I adored and related to the style of the thing.Yeesh, and the danger!
It was beautifully done and deep and dark and gorgeous.
I had heard this was generally the least loved of Donna Tartt's novels, but I went into it expecting to like it a bit more than most because I adore her work.
And you know those people, maybe friends or co-workers, who tell these long-winded stories and when they finish speaking, you're left going, "...that's it?" That basically sums up my feelings about this book.
I'm really bummed because now I've read all 3 of her novels that are published, and I probably have to wait like 9 more years for another one.
I read it a few years ago, I think it was in 2004, I don't really remember now, but I know it was before I separated from Fabio since during the separation process I only read books by Chris Bojalian and books that Lauren mailed me.
She didn't mail me The Little Friend, but I'm sure it is she who recommended it.
Just last night, I was talking with my friend Jenna about this book (which I convinced her to read, and which she is reading now) and we were cracking up over the part where Harriet gives her Sunday School teacher the drawing of the black spot.
I listened to this book on audio and would like to comment first that the narrator was excellent and gave a huge boost to the atmosphere of the Mississippi setting.And the book had tremendous atmosphere.
She can also write a great character and Harriet in particular is superb.
In fact another book focussing on her as a teenager or an adult would be great!My problem stemmed from my interest in Harriet and her family.
This was a long book and it took me a long time to listen to it.
I liked it enough to finish it and the character of Harriet will stay with me.
Prelim. Review (aka, a personal steam valve):  Well, I declare!  I just don't know what Donna Tartt did to open the floodgates to venom for her last 2 novels: The Goldfinch, preceded by The Little Friend.I say this not to gripe about your subjective opinion that you found The Little Friend boring, you detested the subject matter, or you simply dislike Donna Tartt's writing style or personality. Intelligent people don't quibble over such matters, since opinions are like a__holes. I am also not cl
I just don't know what Donna Tartt did to open the floodgates to venom for her last 2 novels: The Goldfinch, preceded by The Little Friend.I say this not to gripe about your subjective opinion that you found The Little Friend boring, you detested the subject matter, or you simply dislike Donna Tartt's writing style or personality.
Аз имах тонове информация за „Малкият приятел” на Дона Тарт, но с немалко усилие на волята и самодисциплина се опитах да подходя към книгата с чисто съзнание, до колкото това изобщо беше възможно.Романът се чете бавно и то не само заради своя обем.
Усещаш го, драска те, но и те тегли обратно към себе си.„Малкият приятел” не е криминална история, въпреки че започва с внезапната смърт на едно 9 годишно момченце.
Просто ще цитирам един от любимите ми откъси от книгата, защото думите на Дона Тарт говорят сами за себе си:„По-късно, когато Хариет си припомняше този ден, ѝ се струваше, че това бе точната, ясна, научно обоснована точка, когато животът ѝ кривна към страданието.
This book could have lost fifty or so pages without it affecting the plot line.
Like most of Donna Tartt's main characters, Harriet is, well, unusual.
Unusual in the kind of way we all are, if someone got to know us as deeply as the author let's us know Harriet.
Harriet's life is unusual too.
This simple plot line takes place in a small town in Mississippi and the characters that inhabit this world are both recognizable and like no-one you've ever met before.
You have to be grateful for people like Tartt who give years of their lives to first acquire and then transform this expertise into an an art that enriches you and me.
Εγώ απορώ υπό το βάρος ποιας διάνοιας κατάφερε η Ταρτ να επιβάλλει την έκδοση του βιβλίου της σε αυτήν την μορφή, αποφεύγοντας μια σοβαρή επιμέλεια; Ήταν μόλις το δεύτερό της μυθιστόρημα και φαντάζομαι πως ό,τι επιτυχία κι αν είχε το πρώτο της (Η Μυστική Ιστορία) τούτο εδώ θα τρόμαξε μέχρι και τον πιο καλόπιστο εκδότη με τις χίλιες σελίδες του.Θα σκεφτεί κανείς εύλογα «μα τίποτα δεν είναι καλό σε αυτό το βιβλίο;» Επειδή, πράγματι, μια καταξιωμένη συγγραφέας είναι λογικό να έχει έστω ένα-δυο καλά πράγματα να πει, έστυψα το κεφάλι μου να τα βρω: ίσως, με μπόλικη καλή πίστη, κάποιος να εντοπίσει μέσα στις ατέλειωτες σελίδες του το βιβλίο που θα μπορούσε να είναι αν έπεφτε ένα γερό ψαλίδισμα: μια αφήγηση που μεταφέρει τον αναγνώστη στην προεφηβική ηλικία, με την ματιά εκείνη που μαθαίνει να ερμηνεύει έναν ενήλικο κόσμο αλλά ακόμα χωράει το παραμύθι μέσα του.
The author's ability to draw the reader into the scenes and lives of the characters, however, makes this a worthwhile read.
Their insights into life are often fascinating and engaging.I liked the way I simply forgot about time when the author drew me in, and although the plot moved forward slowly (even sideways sometimes) the setting and situations were lifelike and interesting enough to absorb my attention.Yes, it's long.
Yes, it could have been trimmed quite a bit.
Doing so, however, would have made this book something other than what it is- an immersive and well crafted read.
She makes a very likeable character, a smart, precocious little girl in a small country town who makes enemies with a group of meth-heads while trying to solve the mystery of her 9-year-old brother's hanging when she was a baby, and turns it into a 576-page snoozefest.
I eventually had to go to a library miles away and check out the audio version so I didn't have to waste my precious eyesight reading it.
I read this one review where the person said they were sorry they had to give up reading it because they really liked the little girl, I felt the same way.
I LOVED The Secret History. I do not love this. Elegant prose can only keep a reader for so long. I imagine that many people, me included, do not want a 10 page description of two troubled twentysomething doing crystal meth and getting sunburnt in the middle of July. I actually made the 200 page mark. With the potential of more sweaty boys on drugs in the next 400 pages, I put the book down and re-read The Secret History instead.
This was far too big a book for this story. Just loads of unnecessary description and background about certain things. It was very slow but i still enjoyed the story. I would read another book by Donna Tartt as I've heard the others are far superior to this.
Sometimes, I do believe, one's expectations can completely ruin a book for a person. On the other hand, expectations can only infrequently enhance one's experience of a book. It took me three attempts, years apart, to get through The Little Friend ... but it was worth it! A wonderful book, and a unique heroine, young Harriet. Just read patiently and you will be richly rewarded. At first I wanted to give this book 4 stars ... actually more like 4.4 because I'd "rounded down" to 4 ... but then som
Sometimes, I do believe, one's expectations can completely ruin a book for a person.
At first I wanted to give this book 4½ stars ...
I felt like I wanted to reread the book even though it hadn't been very long since I'd (yes, finally!) finished it.
unlike many readers here, I came to The Little Friend with zero expectations ...
No, but I don't ultimately believe that it makes sense to scold or berate an author for not writing a different book than the one she actually did write.
The really bad news about this book is that I have finished it! The really good news is that it goes straight into my bury me with this book bookshelf. An absolute busting-out-of-itself 5★
This atmosphere – the heavy, hot air that paradoxically conjures up a feeling of perpetual restlessness, and that inevitably reminds you of childhood summers – seemed a perfect match for the setting and plot.I loved the richness of The Little Friend, the sheer lush extravagance of the prose.
It strikes me that there's something very old-fashioned about this type of storytelling – its slowness and detail, the sense that the author is taking her time.I sometimes read descriptions Donna Tartt has written and think there's nobody who can match her:An icy fresh wind blew through his head.
If there was another >500-page story of these characters just going about their lives, I'd read it, no question.
***NO SPOILERS***(Full disclosure: book abandoned at page 226 [out of 555 pages].)The Little Friend starts strong, with distinct, even lovable characters--and protagonist Harriet is the most interesting of all--but 141 pages in, it loses its footing.
Readers should be forewarned that despite The Little Friend’s summary, this isn’t a murder mystery.
The story is really about--within the first 226 pages, that is--the day-to-day life and antics of Harriet and her cute friend Hely, and the pace is very leisurely, peppered with complex, often beautiful sentences.
When the focus shifts from Harriet’s colorful family to a set of less interesting, less distinctive characters, the story slows considerably.
But there are several moments in The Little Friend when Donna Tartt reminds us of a what a magnificent writer she really is - when her characters come alive and their deeply-considered thoughts tell us so much about the world we live in.The story begins with a child's murder.
Like many of its equivalents in the Deep South, its best days are long gone.
The finest moments of The Little Friend are not in Harriet's hair-raising escapades on the trail of the killer or in the story's frantic finale.
Във връзка с това имам няколко впечатления от "Малкият приятел", които обясняват защо е многословна и защо това й качество е блестящо.Дона Тарт е страхотен разказвач в перспектива.
В "Малкият приятел" има дузина герои и това, което тя успява да изгради с тях е удивително.
В една история, която дискутира тема като "загубата", експонирана в десетки конфликти у десетки герои, Дона успява да подплъти действието и развитието с това, което е извън героите - природата, залезът, сенките на слънцето, падащи върху панталоните (къде гледа човек, когато е притеснен?
Tartt provides a very detailed account of the home life of her heroine, Harriet and gives lots of background to the town in Mississippi where she grows up.
Harriet and her family are traumatised by the violent and mysterious death of her elder brother when the book begins.
Tartt gives us a detailed account of these brothers, one of whom is a psychopathic thug, another a born again preacher and another a retarded boy in Harriet’s class at school.
But Tartt writes so very well and I did enjoy the vivid evocation of life in a disenfranchised town in middle America.
