https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2474084.The_Work_of_Art_in_the_Age_of_Its_Technological_Reproducibility_and_Other_Writings_on_Media
The famous essay on Art and Technological Reproducibility (Das Kunstwerk im Zeitalter seiner technischen Reproduzierbarkeit) comes first, but the rest of the essays are thematically grouped - Script and Image, Painting, Music, Film, Photography, the Publishing Industry, and Radio.
His essay talks about how people perceive art with new changes in society and technology, and how art can be mass produced.
This mass-produced art dominates an audience, it reaches to the collective instead of to an individual.
Individual actors are made into commodities, or attempts to reproduce what made past works of art unique.
Benjamin is not entirely pessimistic about the future of art with modern technology, however.
Over time, evolving with the economic mode, we witness a shift toward exhibition value in the aesthetic experience, but there remains access to the aura in terms of a unique observer-work interface, entailing what B calls a reactionary response, which is entirely individual, conditioned by context, perspective and identity.
(Benjamin 22)This quote from Walter Benjamin’s revolutionary essay “The Work of Art In the Age of Its Technological Reproducibility” exposes the root of a profound ambivalence about the modern world.
I intend only to deal with the immediate ramifications of the mass reproduction of art, and how it may affect the authenticity of art, the auratic glow which Benjamin holds so dearly.I.Benjamin’s essay was sparked by the revelation of the feat of modern technology – the ability it has to reproduce any kind of art.
Dans la foulée, on trouvera également une analyse séduisante de la guérilla dadaïste - le Dadaïsme, ce courant artistique désirant provoquer l’outrage public et infligeant le « stigmate de la reproduction.
Un essai publié en 1935, à l’aube d’un conflit mondial, avec une polarité idéologique à son comble, que Benjamin conclut par un plaidoyer ouvertement antifasciste; épinglant le manifeste futuriste de Marinetti et son mémorable « Fiat ars, pereat mundus » (Que l'art advienne, le monde dût-il périr) : « Voilà l’esthétisation de la politique que pratique le fascisme.
Dan menarik untuk lebih diteroka!Sebelum pergi lebih jauh, telah dinyatakan -dalam pendahuluan bahagian 5 (Part V)- paksi dimana Benjamin berdiri bila berbicara mengenai estetika (aesthetic).For Walter Benjamin the category of the aesthetic, the focus of much of his work, must be understood not in the simple sense of a theory of the ( beautiful) arts but rather in terms of the original of the Greek root aisthetikos ( "of sense perception" ) which comes from aisthanesthai ( “to perceive”).-Page 315, Part V: FilmDan disebabkan wacana ini masih sangat asing, saya dapati sangat sukar untuk beberapa ketika menangkap maksud ucapan yang disampaikan Benjamin, terutamanya bab 40 (Karl Kraus) yang panjang .
Questo saggio, molto breve e famoso ma molto "denso", scritto dal filosofo Walter Benjamin nel 1935 tratta l'impatto della riproducibilità "tecnica" sull'opera d'arte, argomento né facile né immediato.I quadri e le sculture sono sempre stati riprodotti manualmente e le opere musicali altro non sono che una continua ripetizione/riproduzione dell'opera stessa.
Un esempio possono essere l'astrattismo, l’espressionismo e, perché no, la Pop art.Ora la domanda è: ci volevano una quarantina di pagine per esprimere questo concetto?Onestamente il libro mi è parso un pochino datato, di difficile digestione (l'aura è peggio di cinque spicchi d'aglio) e sollevante problemi che non vedo.

Přečteno pouze Umělecké dílo ve věku své technické reprodukovatelnosti. Existují zřejmě dvě verze, jelikož na internetu koluje jiná kratší a Literárněvědných studiích se vyskytuje druhá a delší.Esej je pěkný odraz doby, naznačující vývoj, který v mnoha ohledech později nastal. Doslov/Estetika války aneb poslední část citující Marinettiho manifest mi připomněla J. G. Ballarda.Jenom ta politizace (jako umění jako nástroj) mi není zvlášť jasná ani po dalším čtení.
This maybe the best introduction to Walter Benjamin's work. His essay on "Reproducibility" is the classic text that every media or art student has to read - and rightfully so. He's was (or is on the page) a remarkable thinker and writer. Essential figure in the art of the essay. This is a very handsome edition of some of his greatest works. Do read and study hard!
A wonderful collection of articles and essays by Walter Benjamin.I really enjoy reading Benjamin's essays and imagine what it would be like to live in a time where art and media change drastically in a short period of time.I highly recommend this book for anyone interested in art, creation of media, and design.
- l'opera d'arte nell'epoca della sua riproducibilità tecnica - piccola storia della fotografia - eduard fuchs, il collezionista e lo storico - che cos'è il teatro epico? - commenti ad alcune liriche di brecht
Irreplaceable as a fundamental text in an understanding of the transformation of the role of art, and the current understanding of the nature of the work of art, if not of how we stumble toward a sense of what is art and what is not.
3.5
Volviendo al cine, se dice que este es el único medio donde podríamos darle un sentido eterno, puesto que cuando apareció la reproducción en masas ya no es algo que se trate de guardar para siempre, como lo hacían los griegos por ejemplo, con el cine veremos que ya es un gran logro pues es toda una secuencia de imágenes terminada de un momento a otro, se puede editar de manera correcta, tanto como se puede observar en el arte plástico de los griegos, y todo eso se logró gracias a su reproductibilidad.
Dans une cinquantaine de pages, il parvient à en dire beaucoup. Et je comprends - même si je ne partage pas toutes ses opinions - l’influence de ce petit ouvrage : par un temps maudit, il a su y voir clair. Ce n’est pas toujours facile de garder sa lucidité quand on voit l’aura de l’œuvre d’art dépérir aussi vite que ça. 4,2/5
o
An extremely succinct book of only 49 pps. Some interesting insights but certainly not the deep dissection of mass-market printing I was hoping for. The writing is clear and lucid and several of the ideas are superb--but there's just not enough of it.
Me parece que las artes, diseños, artesanías, la industria editorial, cultural y de entretenimiento no podría explicarse sin este texto de Benjamin. Me parece incluso que su coquetería con la muerte del autor lo vuelve un texto fundacional de nuestra época. Incluso, de cierta manera, un manual para internet.
Ma un film sì, quindi per un film non ha più senso parlare di originale."Sta nascendo un modo di fare arte che non prevede originali ma soltanto infinite copie.
Pensate a iTunes, agli e-book, a e-mule.La seconda fondamentale intuizione è:"La riproduzione priva l'opera d'arte dell'aura".Benjamin dice che l'opera d'arte ha una componente cultuale (sacra!) e una espositiva (laica).
Uhm. L'opera d'arte che non prevede originali è priva di aura.
Noi che non siamo lettori-e-basta, ma autori E critici E lettori?Qua il discorso di Benjamin diventa rigido, ideologico e inattuale.L'arte industriale non è fruita necessariamente in modo passivo e irriflessivo.
El cine visto como un conjunto de imágenes reproductibles que alcanzan su condición de arte post-aurático mediante el montaje.Véase el séptimo capítulo, dedicado a la fotografía y el valor ritual de los retratos.
The unique value of the "authentic" work of art has its basis in ritual, the location of its original use value.
5. For the first time in world history, mechanical reproduction emancipates the work of art from its parasitical dependence on ritual.
8. The simultaneous contemplation of paintings by a large public, such as developed in the nineteenth century, is an early symptom of the crisis of painting, a crisis which was by no means occasioned exclusively by photography by rather in a relatively independent manner by the appeal of art works to the masses.
In contrast, the distracted mass absorbs the work of art.
Neblogas pavyzdys, kaip filosofai nusileidę iš būties, čia-būties ir esaties padangių į socialinę realybę, gali pasakyti kažką įdomaus ne tik tiems, kurie priklauso jų "grynosios minties" klubui.
Sugretindamas visuomenės demokratizacijos, socializmo įdėjų plitimo ir "mechaninės meno kūrinio reprodukcijos" (t.y. fotografijos ir kino) įsigalėjimo procesus W.
Benjaminas teoretizuoja meno statuso kaitą: nuo ritualinės ir religinės meno kūrinio reikšmės pereinama prie ekspozicinės ir politinės.
W. Benjaminas nuspėjo ne tik "entrertainmento" iškilimą, bet ir vikipediją – jis teigia, kad ateityje vis labiau nyks skirtumas tarp rašytojo ir skaitytojo, meno kūrėjo ir jo vartotojo.
Jo viltys, kad kinas ir fotografija išugdys masių kritinį mąstymą, deja, buvo tuščios.
The title essay has had such a landmark effect on media studies-- it's too bad how false it has largely turned out to be.
Much in the same way that the high culture of Benjamin's day preserved the ethos of industrial capitalism, so does the era of technological reproducibility.
Maybe Marx was right, and maybe "culture" is largely a superstructure that is dependent on the economic conditions.
Either way, Google Image Search sure as shit ain't liberating us.Oh well!
In each of these essays, he tackles a specific issue as well as anyone could.
Reproduction detaches an object from tradition and from its aura, or its "strange tissue of space and time: the unique apparition of a distance, however near it may be" (23).
Technological reproduction thus moves us from an age of ritual to an age of politics (24-25).
However, mass reproduction allows for "a different kind of participation" (39).
He is concerned about the "aestheticizing of political life" (41), but also sees hope in moves like Dadaism, which seek to immerse people in contemplation of art (39).
Essay over het impact van reproductie op kunst - Ook wel de verschuiving van kunst als ritueel tot kunst voor impact.
In dit boek leiden fotografie en film een nieuw hoofdstuk van 'reproductie' in (1935).
Dat leidt tot groter bereik en engagement, maar tegelijkertijd leidt het evenzeer tot een verschuiving in de maatschappij, één die ons wegleidt van authenticiteit.
Tot het punt waarop we kiezen voor fascisme omdat het 'impactvol' voor ons spreekt, niet omdat het voor ons werkt.
Een interessant essay dat me bood wat ik zocht: Veel trends die we vandaag bewust en onbewust zien, maar met een perspectief dat vele decennia daarvoor ligt.
I'm very tired and wired on coffee, and so I'm not even 100% sure if I should be leaving a review (but if I don't do it now, I don't see myself ever doing it).
This book was well argued and well translated, but I find myself disagreeing with his overall thesis.
I don't agree that technological reproduction takes away from the authenticity of a work, because it's still art.
In any case, I'm glad I read this book, because Benjamin's arguments have given me much food for thought, and I am certain that I will bring up his work in my own thesis.
Nella nota che chiude la raccolta di questi brevi saggi, Paolo Pullega scrive che "in effetti gli scritti brechtiani di Benjamin sollevano continuamente l'impressione di una maggiore grandezza del commentatore rispetto al suo autore".Ecco, io ho avuto esattamente l'impressione che Benjamin parli oltre, oserei dire che parla proprio d'altro, come quando incontri un amico all'uscita dal cinema e gli chiedi: beh com'era il film? e lui ti risponde: l'immanenza dell'opera sia consustanziale all'arte.
Obviously, the best, most mindblowing essay is "Work of Art," but I like how fragmented and imperfectly formed some of the other essays are. Like the one about Parisian architecture and the panorama - some provocative thoughts are placed in there, but not perfectly proven. This is very much how I write...all of the time. Makes me feel a little closer to being a legit literary theorist, of which I am not.
Opera notissima e citatissima, è pubblicata assieme ad altri brevi saggi sulla storia della fotografia, su un collezionista d'arte e su Bertolt Brecht.Ha più di uno spunto acuto e interessante, ma in generale è molto datata e ancorata all'epoca storica in cui è scritta. Proprio questo però è un ulteriore motivo di interesse: l'arte negli anni '30 del '900 era in ebollizione la fotografia e il cinema, ancor molto giovani, mostravano esplosivamente che il linguaggio artistico stava cambiando.
I haven't read Benjamin's essay in years, but I've wondered since I read it whether I agreed that mechanical reproduction diminishes art. Forget the problem of capitalism, I'm grateful for reproduction. And the issue becomes even more interesting in our age of digital reproduction and digital art-making. I gave it 5 stars because of its historical value and because it's such an interesting text.
