https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16688.The_Man_Who_Sold_the_Moon

3.5 stars. This set of short stories plus the title Novella is a good introduction to Heinlein's "Future History" especially the title novella and "The Roads Must Roll." The latter is my favorite from the collection and was included as one of the best short stories of all time by the Science Fiction Writers of America.
This is the paradoxical ourobouros that is science fiction: writers describe these technologies and places that don’t yet or can’t exist … young people read their stories … and then they grow up, inspired to become scientists and explorers and create or find those things.
Reading the stories in this anthology in that light, then, I can totally see why so many people cite Heinlein as their favourite science-fiction author.
I’ll probably keep reading Heinlein, leisurely over the years, just to continue getting a good perspective on how science fiction has changed over the past century.
A collection of some of RAH's older stories & they vary a lot by edition, I think.
This edition starts off with a really good foreword by John Campbell who 'discovered' RAH (A happy slush pile find of "Life Line".) & published a lot of his short stories over the years.
Again, not particularly realistic in some of the science, but the overall idea was very true & well done.If you're interested, the actual order should be:"Life-Line""Let There Be Light""The Roads Must Roll""Blowups Happen""The Man Who Sold the Moon""Delilah and the Space Rigger""Space Jockey""Requiem"The struck through titles are usually included in "The Green Hills of Earth" collection, although they vary.
One of the interesting parts was the preface, which Heinlein began with a quote from L.
There are the usual didactic characters—each one of them a bastion of reason in a sea of weak unreason—and they spout the usually odd, off-kilter politics of Heinlein.
I think that’s my favorite part about Heinlein’s politics—and the only reason he got away with so much preaching in his books—he’s utterly and totally heterodox.
Every time you think you’ve got him pinned down, he launches some fusillade that totally upends the box you had carefully place him inside of.
But I read the foreword and discovered that Heinlein had written several of his books with the same overarching “story” such that the events of one story are the history and background of another.The first story is of an inventor who, working with a colleague, invents solar panels in the process of inventing “cold light” – or a light source that doesn’t emit a lot of heat.
It was sad, but fulfilling.So, this is very classic Sci-Fi, dating back to the 50′s – if you enjoy classic Sci-Fi you should really enjoy these short stories.
Difficult to review, even more so than the regular collection of short stories.This is, almost by definition, classic science-fiction, practically historical sci-fi, if there can be such a thing.
This is a collections of stories showing in a fairly linear fashion, how mankind in Heinlein's universe made it to the moon.
In The man who sold the moon, the signature story, is basically all about this favourite character and how he got mankind to the moon, which requires a certain tolerance from the modern reader.You know how some peoples fathers were so overbearing and patriarchal they were family dictators and their children inevitably rebelled?
I liked this a lot better than "Stranger in a Strange Land" because I feel that Heinlein is a lot better as a short-story writer.
With "Stranger in a Strange Land" it seemed like he got a little bit carried away with some of his fantasies and the story kind of ran away with him, but in this collection of somewhat-interconnected stories, the stories are cohesive and succinct and flow together nicely, and his ideas come across well without being shoved down the reader's throat.
The Man Who Sold The Moon is a collection of short stories by Robert Heinlein, all set within his fictional history timeline.
That’s really the extent of this story.“The Roads Must Roll” has far more development, and introduces an interesting concept of a world covered in ‘rolling roads’ (like those airport escalator things that don’t escalate; I’m sure there’s a word for them).
The protagonist of this story, Delos Harriman, is a shrewd business man who always dreamed of going to the Moon.
The Man Who Sold the Moon is generally regarded as the first collection of Heinlein’s Future History stories, which showed us, in the Golden Age of SF, how Heinlein saw humanity expanding beyond Earth into space.
It includes much of Heinlein’s early short stories and in this first set involves love, death, union issues and one of Heinlein’s most enduring characters.The stories included here (in the order of this edition of the book) are:  "Life-Line" (1939; Heinlein’s first published story, originally published in Astounding Science Fiction, August 1939) 
This is a collection of five short stories and the titular novella, all set in Heinlein's own future history.
Mind you, this may be a trans-Atlantic difference - Americans have had a very different history with unions to Europeans, and may find this more believable.The title story took a long time to get into.
It was worth it just for the follow-up, Requiem, which rounds off the collection and which is is wistful, sad yet uplifting as well, following the protagonist of the previous story, now as an old man.In general, this is pretty classic Heinlein, with lots of rugged hero-engineers and scientists, making vast discoveries as individuals and having no truck with this namby-pamby government malarky.
У Роберта Хайнлайна в одной из его вселенных был цикл рассказов, в котором фигурировал один человек — Харриман — финансовый гений, щедро сыпавший невообразимыми идеями.
Любая его «авантюра» приносила доход…А сам Харриман мечтал побывать на луне, несмотря на то, что космических кораблей, способных достичь Луны, ещё не существовало.
Но Харримана подобные пустяки не могли остановить, ведь если хочешь побывать на Луне — нужно построить ракету и полететь туда.Спустя многие десятилетия люди вышли в космос, колонизировали Солнечную систему и даже отправили экспедицию к Альфе Центавра — и всё благодаря большой мечте одного маленького человека.Рассказ "Человек, который продал Луну" — начало истории, которая растянулась на десятки произведений, и которая продолжает вдохновлять человечество и по сей день...

The title story stretches a simple (if innovative) concept to the breaking point. Once you get the concept, the rest is just decoration. Again, I'm not sure what other stories are in this collection. There are some stories I rather liked, and I should get a copy to see if they're included--I read Heinlein collections indiscriminately, and didn't keep a record of what was where.
I had strep throat this weekend, and had a fever. So I had some pretty wild, and I mean WILD, dreams. Including a dream where I colonized Pluto, renaming it Planet Stacy (because in my mind, Pluto will always be a planet, dammit!). When I became conscious again, well, what could I do but reach for Robert Heinlein? Apparently, this is going to jump start another science-fiction phase ...
How the world might have becomeThe Man Who Sold The Moon tells the story of the early days of space exploration from the viewpoint of the entrepreneur who had a dream of going to the Moon and set out to get the finance and backing to make his dream come true.
It was good. After Starship Troopers, which didn't live up to the hype, this one has shown me why Heinlein was so popular. Many of the ideas are outdated and seemed rusty at best, but after enduring them for a while, it got better, and I still enjoyed the stories.
Every time I read Heinlein, I have this moment where I pause and remember I really really like Heinlein. Really good collections of stories here, the title one's my favorite but they're all a really interesting mix of ingenuity, sadness and hope as humanity reaches for something bigger.
There are some really good stories here. Most of them were familiar to me, though this is the first time I had many of them in audio.
The Man Who Sold the Moon is a collection of short stories from Heinlein’s Future History sequence, most of them strongly focused on technological advances that form the background to the later, space-faring novels.
Included here is Heinlein’s first published short story, “Life Line,” about Dr. Pinero, a man who develops a scientific method of determining the date of a person’s death.
The theme of emergent technologies continues in “The Roads Must Roll” and “Blowups Happen” - both stories about adapting society to new technology, and adapting the technology to the needs of human society.
If you only have time to read one Heinlein novel, read The Man Who Sold the Moon (1951).
He teases (but yet does not outright taunt) the oh-so American drive to make money.What the Book Is AboutYou won’t have to guess about what The Man Who Sold the Moon is about.
Harriman employs both devious and funny ways of trying to reach for the stars – literally.Why It’s Relevant TodayWell, the moon has never been sold and an American flag was planted there in 1969.
Perhaps at this late date, readers can look at The Man Who Sold the Moon as the history of the space program in an alternate universe nearly identical to our own.
Very aptly named, The Man Who Sold The Moon is a 14 chapter book about a rich man named Delos D.
(Gaining possession of the moon seems to go hand in hand with this fixation.) Along with his business partner, he sets about gathering investors, finagling legalities, negotiating red tape, pushing the boundaries of engineering, and manipulating the media to his advantage.
but I couldn’t connect with this nearly as well as I did with some of Heinlein’s other works.
Not Heinlein’s best work, in my limited opinion.Favorite Quotes:-"Intangibles are the most honest merchandise anyone can sell.
Este libro va de un sueño y de como hacerlo realidad, sin importar el coste y haciendo que el tiempo para obtener el beneficio sea el menor posible, pero con estrategias maquiavélicas que hacen que la trama sea mucho más interesante.Obviamente el carácter infinito del recurso económico hace las cosas mucho más fáciles, pero la forma en la cuál trama cada una de las acciones el personaje principal, le dan un carácter al libro mucho inquietante, sobretodo en descubrir como pretende ver algo que damos todos por echo que es de todos y que él se intenta apropiar utilizando las propias leyes humanas.Pero al final, después de todo ese entramado de planes en los planes de los planes, lo que queda es el verdadero y egoísta sueño infantil de querer viajar a la luna y mientras más lees, más cuenta te das de toda la parafernalia construida a su alrededor para conseguir el verdadero objetivo.
I've read none of Heinlein's works in order, so I already knew that Harriman didn't get to go to the moon - officially - and that another character (Maureen Johnson in To Sail Beyond the Sunset) speculated/hoped that he got there somehow.
(I could also be remembering wrong - maybe she heard a rumor?) The story starts out by detailing a makeshift grave marker, and then there's Harriman, old and so pitiful about his deepest wish to go to the moon that of course you knew that was his grave.
The great accomplishment of Heinlein in my view, is that he manages to go beyond the mere inspirational and builds a strong foundation of credibility behind his characters and their challenges - for example, by taking the time of describing, even if not quite accurately, some of the technical challenges of space travel, rocket launching and fuel consumption required to get to the moon.
- the book was written almost 70 years ago!Recommendable if you like this genre and can deal with the old style and large sections of imagined technical jargon.
The longest one included is the title story - The Man Who Sold the Moon - about how an old fashioned private business entrepreneur named H.H. Harriman financed and built the first rockets and settlements on the moon.
We created NASA, a big government bureaucracy with a big budget, and in 1969 we first landed on the moon.
But look what private enterprise is doing: Elon Musk, Virgin Galactic and others are developing reusable rockets which will bring down the cost of space launches, and they are seriously talking about returning to the moon and even putting astronauts on Mars.
So maybe Heinlein's instincts about private enterprise in space were more correct than he ever knew.
No me ha disgustado, pero tampoco me ha entusiasmado.Lo más reseñable es que no es un libro de ciencia ficción sobre un viaje a la Luna.
Es un libro sobre el capitalismo.
La dificultad del viaje a la Luna no se analiza apenas desde un punto de vista técnico, sino desde las dificultades de obtener el capital suficiente y de conseguir saltarse las regulaciones legales.Si lo lees esperando una novela de ciencia ficción más clásica sobre las dificultades técnicas de viajar a la luna, te defraudará.
Esto es sobre conseguir el dinero.Y incluso desde ese punto de vista, resulta una historia bastante plana, con personajes demasiado estereotipados.El final me gustó, eso si.
This book is a collection of early Heinlein storys set early in his timeline of future history, and they are classic Heinlein.
Mostly interesting stories played out With A4 characters, focused on technical and mechanical problems with a bit of social stuff (mainly economics) in the background.
As a man now living in 2018 I usually have quite a few problems with early Heinleins decriptions of women, but as there is almost no women in these stories that problem solves itself.
And as a part of his future history, they are a part of sci-fi history as well.

A riveting collection of short stories that sheds light on Heinlein's hopeful futurism, tinged with fear for the power of the atom bomb. A friend recommended this to me as a sort of shadow prophesy of Elon Musk, which I enjoyed. The solar solutions of Archie Douglas and the relentless space promotion of Delos both really add up!Exchange fear for AI with fear of the pile.. and it all adds up!Lots of fun to read, loves the language used by Heinlein, very representative of the 30s, especially the first "Let there be Light" story.
