https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139390.This_Perfect_Day
I am not the type of person who rereads books. In fact, I never reread books. Except this one. I pick it up every couple of years. This is A Brave New World but so much better. So much realer. Unfortunately, it is now out of print. But maybe with the author's recent passing, they will bring it back soon. But if you ever see it in a used book store, pick it up and buy it. Don't think. Just walk over to the cash register and buy it. Then go home and read it. You'll thank me.
Completed way back in June, 1969, Ira Levin's novel THIS PERFECT DAY introduces a futuristic colony with a computer at the helm where everyone is programmed to be cold and lifeless, and everyone, as a member of the "family" is monitored throughout the day. "Even the basic facts of nature are subject to the Unicomp's will ----- men do not grow facial hair, women do not develop breasts, and it only rains at night." Lots of action and some pretty cool twists along the way keep things from becoming
Completed way back in June, 1969, Ira Levin's novel THIS PERFECT DAY introduces a futuristic colony with a computer at the helm where everyone is programmed to be cold and lifeless, and everyone, as a member of the "family" is monitored throughout the day.
"Even the basic facts of nature are subject to the Unicomp's will ----- men do not grow facial hair, women do not develop breasts, and it only rains at night."
Lots of action and some pretty cool twists along the way keep things from becoming too dulled or normalized as Chip aka Li RM35M4419 with his one green eye, and a few of his witty non-conforming pals, have some different views on the subject.GREAT sci-fi Classic!
I'm kind of sorry to give this book two stars, because it is a very good story and in it's own way a good addition to the dystopian genre.
The story then continues as if it never happened and they continue as any couple in love and against society.
Snowflake even felt sorry for the fact that she use to freely partake in sexual activities with the other girl Sparrow.
So this society is homophobic as well as sexist and they each feel they should only pair up with another of the opposite sex.
Eventually they discover there are islands with people living primitively outside The Family and UniCom. I won’t say any more about the plot, except that you can guess the dream of a return to a society with more freedom will compel Chip to take revolutionary action.
The plot has some surprising turns as Chip gets closer to unveiling and dealing with the wizards behind this Oz. The popularity of brainwashing and mind control as the foundation of a totalitarian society has declined in literature both from the failure of the science and from the decline of communism.
This is the March book for the Pittsburgh Dystopian Science Fiction Club.
I think one of the things that has often turned me off to science fiction in the past has been the dude factor, which I find extensively in this book.
In other words, the possible societal choices offered are a strictly regimented and totalitarian system and one of supposed free choice but which is actually ruled by brute force.
And the choice is always clear: it's better to live in a brutal society with greater choice than one in which you're life is controlled by a system.
Christ, Marx, Wood and WeiLed us to this perfect dayMarx, Wood, Wei and ChristAll but Marx were sacrificedWood, Wei, Christ and MarxGave us lovely schools and parksWei, Christ, Marx and WoodMade us humble, made us good.- dystopian future world child's bouncing song
Reading a lackluster book for three days only to discover that you hate the character whose perspective you're watching the story from, quite frankly, sucks.
I can't believe that the sole person who has decided to "make the world a better place" is also a character that never learns about true love, being a father, and the safety of his friends and family.
There was no hero in this tale.The story takes place over the course of 30 years, and I stopped liking the character when he was 9.
I think it is impossible to review this book and not mention 1984, Brave New World, We and Kallocain. Levin's book fares well in this company as I think this is one of his best. One mighty familyA single perfect breedFree of all selfishnessAggressiveness and greedEach member givingAll he has to giveAnd getting backAll he needs to liveChrist, Marx, Wei and WoodMade us humble, made us goodChrist, Marx, Wood and WeiLead us to this perfect day
The novel is in four sections and quite a bit of it has hints of other dystopias - the community with scheduled sex and neighbor-reporting is similar to We, the drugging of society feels like Brave New World, and I was completely expecting it to go in the direction of the ending of 1984.This book won the Prometheus Award from the Libertarian Futurist Society for examining concepts of freedom.
What does that mean?But that may be the most interesting part of the novel, or at least what I was thinking about while reading it.
Una distopía clásica con toques de sus antecesoras 1984 o Un mundo feliz. La he leído en dos sentadas porque me ha resultado muy amena pero hay algunas cosas que para mi gusto restan, la principal la motivación del protagonista. Pese a esas cosas, lo bueno gana y se lleva 4 estrellas.
I recommend this book to people when they ask me for a sci-fi suggestion & I'm assuming they've read the ABC's (that's Asimov, Bradbury, and Clarke) and perhaps haven't been introduced to Levin.
I was goofing off in class because I was usually ahead in the material & bored, so he held me after class one day and gave me his copy of this book & told me to read it as an extra credit assignment & write something up about what I thought about it, and any themes I saw in it.
This is one of my absolute favorite books of all time.
It is very much in the vein of other books that deal with the concept of a futuristic dystopian world, i.e, Brave New World, 1984, and Logan's Run. It was out OOP for several years, and after reading (and losing) my mother's copy when I was a teenager....I scoured used books stores for YEARS before I finally stumbled on a paperback version.
It is one of my favorite possessions.
I’ll admit right up front that I’m not a fan of dystopian fiction.
“This Perfect Day” was published in 1970 – after his play “Dr Cook’s Garden” (1967) and before his novels “The Stepford Wives” (1972) and “The Boys from Brazil” (1978).
Of the four works mentioned above, “This Perfect Day” is my least favourite.
Now, that sounds harsh…though I didn’t love the book, I did find the story interesting and thought provoking.
Certainly; especially to those who don’t mind protracted narratives, the redundant expression of ideas or who simply fancy dystopian stories.
What makes This Perfect Day a must read is not just a well-crafted, twisting plot and setting, but the depth of the main character.
The author reveals him to us gradually -- as the character becomes less drugged/more cogent, we know and care about him even more.
The style of writing, although in the past tense and 3rd person, achieves an immediacy that transports the reader to the setting and action as it happens.
It's a humorous and subtle style that you don't find often.
This Perfect Day, however, is a masterpiece of the genre.
Take it to the beach or read it on a rainy weekend.
The only other book to have scared me this much is 1984. I want to both stop reading immediately and continue reading to the end, even if it takes me all night.
To continue this peaceful state of affairs (the word ‘fight’ at this time is a filthy obscenity, while the other `f' word is perfectly acceptable—ah hem, as it SHOULD be), all people (members as they are called) wear bracelets which are held to scanners to gain access to all places and most activities.
These scanners are read by Uni-comp, the huge computer that constantly monitors all activities of all members.
That the hero, Chip (actually his nickname - at this time there are only eight names, four for males, four for females) frees himself from his bracelet and mind numbing treatments and plans to destroy Uni is perhaps predictable.
A ripoff of Brave New World, only with more racism, heteronormativity, and rape.
The protagonist kidnaps a woman he's obsessed with, rapes her, and afterwards she tells him "don't feel bad about it, it was natural, you woke me up," and she becomes his pregnant nagging housewife and spends her afternoons sewing baby clothes.
Like I said, there's not even any new ideas in here that weren't covered by Brave New World 40 years earlier, don't waste your time with this one.
DISTURBING!The whole plot and the themes of this book are frightening; basically it's about people going through the motions of living without really living, people being stupefied and controlled by the very system they created.Ira Levin, the author who brought us the horror of Rosemary's Baby and The Stepford Wives, has yet another frightening and at the same time eye-opening book out there, one that everyone should get to read at least once.
And Orwell's 1984 has so many phrases that have entered the language like "newspeak" and "Big Brother." Each have aspects to their societies that are distinct and memorable; Anthem, Fahrenheit 451 and 1984 are of the strain that tries to control the mind, particularly through language.
Our hero rapes his love and she tells him not a day later not to feel awful, that "It was perfectly natural." If I thought this was meant as commentary on how that controlled society pushed him, and if it had negative consequences for him, her and their relationship, I'd be fine with it--but you get the feeling that it's what it's said to be--something "perfectly natural." In which case, either Levin really needs to get a clue, or it's sloppy writing.
I first read This Perfect Day in 1970 after it was recommended to me by my good friends Janice and Betty.
It is an anti-conformist story about a future where society and all individuals in it are controlled by Uni, a vast computer.
“Christ, Marx, Wood, and Wei Led us to this perfect day.
Marx, Wood,Wei, and Christ All but Wei were sacrificed.
Wood, Wei, Christ, and Marx Gave us lovely shoals and parks.
Wei, Christ, Marx, and Wood Made us humble, made us good.”I really must end my obsession with this book!
While I was reading this at the tender age of fourteen, I couldn't help but visualize the scenes so clearly...Ira Levin taught me the importance of dialogue and having fleshed out characters.
I must have read this book over fifty times since it came out because I love imagining I was there...What would I do?
In these days of Prozac and computers collecting data on us, Levin's novel hits home even more than when it was first published in 1970.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who enjoys pondering ethics, love and individuality or just loves reading a can't-put-down novel which almost reads like a screenplay!
What makes This Perfect Day a must read is the depth of the main character. The author reveals him to us gradually -- as the character becomes less drugged/more cogent, we know and care about him even more. The scanners and bracelets remind me of the RFID cards and readers we have today, slightly disturbing. The world development was interesting enough to explore and give thought to. One of the better dystopian novels I've read
This novel by Ira Levin is about a utopian society where treatments help maintain a stable society, but at what cost? Protagonist Li (or Chip as he prefers to be known) is uncertain about the sameness, and eventually joins a counterculture trying to change things. Good characters, good plot twists, and a very good read. Highly recommended.
Centuries in the future, the people of Earth live under the control of an artificial intelligence called UniComp.
The people sing, "One mighty Family, A single perfect breed, Free of all selfishness, Aggressiveness and greed; Each member giving all he has to give And getting all he needs to live!"Individuals are called members of the Family.
Papa Jan even manages to bypass the scanners and take Chip deep underground to see the ranks of UniComp's memory banks.As a child, Chip hears rumors about the incurables who live in isolated communities somewhere on Earth.
In the minds of the developers of the society, this was Utopia.
In the minds of not such a small group of people in today's world, the world in this novel may appear Utopian.
Levin's treatment of women.
Even after Lilac escapes the mind-numbing effects of the drugs, she remains basically passive and subservient, as do most of the women in the book.
I suspect not, and considering the publication dates of his 3 novels, maybe he never had the opportunity to explore who women are with any depth.
An excellent read. A deceptively simple writing style belies a very complex book with deep social commentary. The question is simple. What happens when a computer runs the world and keeps the citizenry asleep and suddenly you wake up? Social commentary on over medication, individuality, collectivism, as well as hard choices make for a very entertaining read. Oddly enough, I think This Perfect Day is more relevant today than it was even 45 years ago.
“Family” members are rendered compliant and complacent though regular pharmaceutical “treatments” .The first half of the novel is a pretty standard individual-versus-the-collective tale, with shades of Brave New World, 1984, Anthem, We, and Logan’s Run. Later, many of Levin’s themes and unique ingredients would be reflected in The Giver and other dystopian stuff.As the plot moves steadily and somewhat predictably toward what would be a trite but acceptable conclusion (if we were reading, say, Anthem or Logan’s Run), the sheer number of pages left signal that Levin has something larger in mind.
Also, near the end, as part of his cunning plan to play along with the programmers, he slept his way around the entire colony including two 16 year old girls at the same time on his first night (he is 37), which I’M SUPER DUPER SURE was a necessary evil, nobly done against his wishes in order to make sure nobody suspected him.So yeah.
I think Chip is genuinely meant to be the ultimate Defender of Freedom of Choice, the only one who can see things the 'right' way.
Chip leads a party to destroy Uni (the supercomputer) and finds that it's programmed by people just like he.
He seems to accept, but the reader can sense his yearning to destroy it, and Wei, the Hitler-like mastermind, mistakenly trusts him.The showdown is a little confusing, though maybe that was me reading it while walking from the train station to work.
This act, though understandable, made me distance myself from Chip for the remainder of the novel, and in the final scene I realised that if he died, I would not be overly distressed.
I liked that scene, it showed Chip's innocence, his uncouthness and his courage.All in all, a good read.
This is the book that happened when Brave New World and The Giver had a baby, and the baby grew up into a horny teenager. Some interesting ideas, but I don't really care what happens.
