https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/782026.The_Savage_Mind
Levi-Strauss forced anthropologists--arguably an academic front for Eurocentrism and empire--to integrate relativism into their models, thus debunking longstanding myths of "universal man" based on "superior" European civilization/culture.
the convertibility of messages appertaining to each level, even of those which are so remote from each other that they apparently relate solely to culture or solely to society, that is, to men's relations with each other, on the one hand, or, on the other, to phenomena of a technical or economic order which might rather seem ton concern man's relations with nature.
Although we moderns have tremendously elaborate sciences and almost as complex ideologies, we are all blessed (or is it cursed) by the same savage mind.
We differ of course in the manic specialization of our cultures into organic composites, and we also tend to think with abstract (made up) ideas instead of appropriating the concrete world of natural kinds (kinds of plants, kinds of animals) to generate our matrices of thought.In my view, one shared by the anthropological tradition, our self estimation of our own intellectual talents is overblown.
Although modernity preaches self-reliance, it is the savage mind that practices it.I feel there is little to criticize here.
A difficult book to get through, as I needed to make sure I understood what he was saying. There are many intriguing thoughts nestled among the scientific reportings. It would be a great adventure to do an in-depth comparison of Levi-Strauss and Mead, but that study will have to wait for a couple lifetimes down the road unfortunately.
Passionant mais un peu difficile à digérer complètement. L’intérêt que soulève l'ethnologie est immense mais l'ampleur de la tache de Levy Strauss qui embrasse un sujet particulièrement vaste fait que l'esprit se perd parfois en essayant le suivre. Aurait il pu utiliser un peu moins de jargon philosophique et linguistique, serrer un peu plus ses raisonnements ? Son approche qui consiste à essayer de trouver ce qui unifie la pensée des êtres humains malgré les variations observées est très sympathique, mais on comprend aussi que sa méthode ait pu susciter des réserves
Instead of reading this long and brutal book, read Rumi's beautiful first poem in Divane Shams. What Rumi said in 10 lines so beautifully and elegantly 800 years ago, this French dude is trying to say in this long and horribly written book: categories are arbitrary.
Una lectura muchas veces enredada, especialmente si no se está al tanto de las disquisiciones disciplinares, y también por la naturaleza del tema, pero en general muy estimulante. Entre las cosas que me sorprendieron fue que, a contramano de las acusaciones contra el estructuralismo de no considerar los aspectos sincrónicos, y si no me equivoco en entenderlo, acá Lévi-Strauss sí lo hace, descentrando la obsesión occidental con la historia y tratando de situar la diacronía dentro de las operaciones del totemismo. Un libro muy entretenido.
This first purpose then suggests a more general thesis, more philosophical and theoretical, more illuminating of the way in which people think; in this case, it concerns how human beings classify and understand the world around them.I have no claims to be an expert - or even to be greatly interested - in anthropology.
There are clearly differences, but I would feel that the history of science shows the development of modern method in the late medieval period, as experiment and verifiability began to be seen as important, but that the body of knowledge attained by that time in Western Europe is in many ways analogous to (say) the medical theories of a tribe in the Amazon.
The book outlines the concept of (cultural) bricolage. While the term was adapted to other areas, the examples stem from “classic” ethnography studying indigenous cultures in remote settings. If you only want to read a part of the book, I suggest to spend time on the first few chapters which include the bricolage definition.
I had forgotten just how seminal Levi-Strauss was to literary and critical social theory- which seems to be what's left of Western philosophy- until I read this.
But his major contribution to anthropology- to have basically shredded its colonialist presuppositions by demonstrating that traditional peoples' way of thinking was not "primitive" in its relationship to logic and science, or to social behavior, but other-directed and coherent in itself- is magnificently evident here.
His original insight is now the accepted way of thinking about cultural difference in academe.
intensely complex and dense. but, once you start to get past the bricoleur and Levi-Strauss's heavy French-ness, its definitely something to think about. Good discussion of classification and the human mind and critique of Sartres.
Harder to read than "Tristes tropiques" but interesting.
Very, very interesting. I was not keen on the writing style but I guess I'm too used to novels. A must read for those interested in anthropology.
Essential reading (regardless of one's view of L.-S.) - it is Claude L.-S.'s masterpiece
Could the reader, however well versed in structural anthropology answer for me the meaning of the following paragraph on p 21 chapter 1, quoted "Mythical thought appears to be an intellectual form of 'bricolage' in this sense also.
[myitals]The qualities it claimed at its outset as peculiarly scientific were precisely those which formed no part of living experience and remained outside and, as it were, unrelated to events.[\ital] This is the significance of the notion of primary qualities.
One of the most difficult books I have read. It's up there with Popper's The Logic of Scientific Discovery. I found myself constantly drifting between comprehension and confusion. Many sentences, paragraphs, pages had to be re-read because the language was so compact and the diction technical. There are too many details and examples where few would suffice, but not enough unpacking of the more intricate concepts proposed by the author. The analysis is exhaustive but the conclusions are not as profound as I had hoped.
très instructif et intéressant en particulier quand il explique que la connaissance fine du milieu, de la faune et de la flore des tribus se retrouvent transcrits dans la multitude de noms et de nuances qu'ils ont créés pour les décrire et sont un indicateur important du niveau de connaissance atteint, par ces sociétés trop souvent décrite comme "sauvages" ou primitives car différentes.
sasirtici ama Tahsin Yücel bu çeviride bence cuvallamis. Seçtiği Öztürkce kelimeler için habire sözlük açılması gerekiyor ve zaten benim alanım olmayan antropolijide normal kelimeleri dahi anlayamaz duruma düşüyorum. Onun dışında dil ve kültür etkisini anlamak icin bu kitabi okudum ve istediğimi aldım. Tüm kitaba bakacak olursak ise, kitabı tam olarak anlayabildigimi düşünmüyorum bunda Strauss ' un antitezini sunduğu fikirleri okuyucunun onceden bilmesini beklemesinin de etkisi var.
Like most of Levi-Strauss it's a bit difficult to read, takes some time to analyze his points but once understood it's well worth the effort of finishing this book. The psychology & behavior of those who live off the land is identical to those that do.His perspective & understanding of the human condition should be mandatory teaching.
Car ce livre s'écarte de l'ethnologie traditionnelle en prenant pour thème un attribut universel de l'esprit humain : la pensée à l'état sauvage qui est présente dans tout homme - contemporain ou ancien, proche ou lointain - tant qu'elle n'a pas été cultivée et domestiquée à des fins de rendement.Même dans les sociétés sans écriture, cette pensée ressemble singulièrement à celle qui nous est familière, dans la poésie et dans l'art, ou encore dans les diverses formes du savoir populaire, archaïque ou récent.Partant d'une observation du monde précise et minutieuse, elle analyse, distingue, classe, combine et oppose...
Il limite sul significato di "strutturale" è stato ormai più volte discusso, così anche che si pensi in termini binari, tuttavia Levi- Strauss è un maestro riconosciuto, ed invincibile per le sue scoperte che un animale totemico non è buono da mangiare ma "buono da pensare".
Scoperta fatta due anni prima della pubblicazione di quest'opera in "Il totemismo oggi", manda al tappeto una volta per tutte il pregiudizio che sta alla base dell'Occidente: i Selvaggi sono degli spiriti semplici, e vivono allo stato di Natura, a differenza di noi, che abbiamo scienza e cultura.
Totemism is dead!
Take that, nineteenth-century armchair anthropology!
What edifice shall we build upon its scattered remains?
This movement would later be called Edificism, which would be followed by Post-Edificism.Fred and Ben Savage take you on a tour the intimate world they created through sheer cognitive willpower.
Turns out the human habit is hard-wired since at least the paleolithic.
(Ch. 1, see also Sister Act II: Back in the Habit)* Caste and 'totemism' are the same, but different!
Turns out they don't know what they're talking about!
TURNS OUT WE DON'T NEED HISTORY!
A great book, but not because he's specifically right about anything he says.
There are all kinds of red flags in the explanation of his theories from the binary nature of his associative cognizance diagrams and structures that probably don't specifically exist, to the allegories he uses for technologically advanced, civilized people to understand the structures provided by language he says he's found.
He has too much faith in a truly limited understanding of the subjects on which he writes.
Yet, this work greatly advanced linguistics, anthropology, and many social sciences with its less-than-perfect observations of the associative structures humanity creates.
Levi-Strauss uses the analytical tools of linguistics and ethnography to demonstrate that there is no primitive man.
A man who lives in a primitive society because of different life experiences and education will develop different typologies and schemes of classification than a man raised in a modern society and benefitting from a modern education.
The basic thought structures however are the same.
The primitive man as such does not exist.This a deft, technical treatise which proves what most of us believe that all men are alike but some are much luckier than others to live in richer, safer and more modern societies.
I mainly read this book to understand Levi-Stauss' use of the term 'bricoleur'-- often translated as 'tinkerer.' Levi-Strauss defines bricoleur as someone who differs from a scientist and who "makes do with whatever is at hand." He states that raw or naive art shows the "mytho-poetical nature of bricolage" and that "art lies half-way between scientific knowledge and mythical or magical thought." This intrigues me as I seek to understand (and craft) the so-called 'lyric essay,'which to me is a type of bricolage.
Includes a good explanation on how language and culture can effect the way we see things and the way we think. Too many examples may be discouraging at first, but the fact that the reader can just "scan" those examples instead of actually reading them -if the reader fully understood the argument made, of course- decreases the time spent on reading this book, which means more time to write and cite from the book!
Pretty interesting, if quite long-winded about some of the arguments. Some strong ideas for his time seem obvious and belabored now (e.g., taxonomic variants tend to share leaves and vary on structure, and ontology is point-of-view). Interesting to me is that just as he is tearing down cultural centrism, he also demonstrates startling hubris in some conclusions. Nevertheless, worth slogging through.
J'avoue que j'ai pas tout à fait assimilé toutes les idées dans ce livre. Ceci vient du fait qu'il s'agit d'un livre trop "technique" et non destiné au commun des mortels. Un livre précieux, à relire encore une fois...
This is probably one of the most difficult books to read of his. Once one is able to accomplish getting through it, it is an amazing book! It is one of my favorite books and I consistently refer back to it. Every time I read it, I always discover something that I missed before.
Claude Levi-Strauss; main proponent of structuralism. I've heard this is a good introduction. My problem is that if it can be considered a mainstream, or "legitimate," philosophical school I want to know about it.
who are you calling savage? seriously.
