https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90664.Pictures_from_Brueghel_and_Other_Poems
The poemif it reflects the seareflects onlyits dance upon that profound depthwhereit seems to triumph.Reading these poems this frozen afternoon, I sensed almost a dislocation and then swift reconstruction of my faculties.
WCW was offering me thinking lessons.
My congery of indifference may be sliding towards despair but I harbor a measured hope.
The early miniatures required a few readings.
I discovered some kinship reading about the farmers with their scythes and reflecting that the wheat-shearing scene in Anna Karenina was Proust's favorite.
The later poems depict an aging poet finding joy at the limits of his craft.

There is much here of great worth, including the classic love poem "Asphodel, The Greeny Flower." It is long, and stumbles in places, but is still one of the finest examples of the long poem in twentieth-century American poetry.
This is a book well worth the time and effort, but if you stumble across something in it and find yourself wondering why both author and publisher considered it a poem, rest assured you're not alone.
The collection is composed of  The Desert Music ,  Journey to Love , and Pictures from Brueghel.Unlike  The Desert Music  and  Journey to Love  the poems of Pictures from Brueghel aren't written in triadic stanza form, with the exception of "The Gift" and "The Turtle"... Staying here in the country on an old farm we eat our breakfastson a balcony under an elm. The shrubs below us are neglected. Andthere, penned in, or he would eat the garden, lives a pet goose whotilts his head sidewise and look
the poems of Pictures from Brueghel aren't written in triadic stanza form, with the exception of "The Gift" and "The Turtle"...
Andthere, penned in, or he would eat the garden, lives a pet goose whotilts his head sidewise and looks up at us,a very quiet fellow who writes no poems.
- To Daphne and Virginia (from The Desert Music) Come on!
(from Journey to Love)As the wise men of old brought gifts guided by a star to the humble birthplace - The Gift (from Pictures from Brueghel)
"Pictures from Brueghel" is a cycle of ten poems, each based on a painting by Pieter Bruegel.
This book is actually a compilation of three William Carlos Williams works: Pictures from Brueghel, The Desert Music and Journey to Love.I really enjoyed the first ten poems in Pictures from Brueghel, which are about actual paintings by Pieter Bruegel the Elder, a Dutch Flemish Renaissance artist c. 1525-1569. Here is LANDSCAPE WITH THE FALL OF ICARUS:According to Brueghelwhen Icarus fellit was springa farmer was ploughinghis fieldthe whole pageantryof the year wasawake tinglingnearthe edge of the seaconcernedwith itselfsweating in the sunthat meltedthe wings' waxunsignificantlyoff the coastthere wasa splash quite unnoticedthis wasIcarus drowning
The ten poems on pictures painted by Brueghel (Self-portrait, Landscape with the Fall of Icarus, The Hunters in the Snow, The Adoration of the Kings, Peasant Wedding, Haymaking, The Corn Harvest, The Wedding Dance in the Open Air, The Parable of the Blind, Children's Games) depict them with extraordinary verve, clarity and precision and, in my opinion, constitute the high point of the poems not included in Williams' previous books The Desert Music (1954) and Journey to Love (1955), which I have reviewed separately. Each of the ten poems deserves a four star rating at least...
just read through these poems the other day for the first time in several years, and I can't get over how beautiful they are. I can't imagine a better to book to end one's life with, kind of a last gift for us all.
My favorite poet of all time. This book won him a Pulitzer. Need I say more?
Some of the world's most beautiful poetry is found in this volume; in particular, "The Ivy Crown."
Maybe to read the poem firsteach poem firstfirst each word set againsteach other word firstand thenthe first thing to dois do
Some beautiful, some sweet--almost all over my head, I suppose.I do not understand his spa- cing on a page.
Many splendid poems in this Pulitzer prize winning volume. I especially enjoyed the opening sequence that took me into several of Brueghel's paintings with different eyes.
WC Williams gets old, reads a bunch of books, looks at a lot of art, goes to Mexico, rediscovers meter, learns again to love his wife, and, indeed, becomes a rose in the galaxy of poets.
"All men by their nature give praiseit is allthey can do."
He wrote fantastical prose ephemera and experimental works; The Embodiment of Knowledge, a bizarre notebook intended as the publisher describes ""to show that knowledge is an ongoing process by which we create our selves from day to day." The Great American Novel, the love story of a Ford auto and a Mack truck, an allegorical satire of near-random poeticisms, is astounding and wonderful.
And his translation of Last Nights of Paris by Philippe Soupault, a friend of his Paris times in which he wrote The Great American Novel, is an exquisite rendering of a noir underworld.
Pictures from Brueghel, The Desert Music, and Journey to Love.I wasn't impressed with Pictures from Brueghel.
The poems were much more descriptive and the structure was a bit trippy for me as it was almost like Yoda speaking.
The latter half of lines would actually start the sentences that had preceded them.The Desert Music was much more interesting to me.
The poems felt more philosophical.
I loved The Descent.Journey to Love, as the name hints, is oriented more around romance and love poems.
I would probably give the set five stars if it had analysis after each poem to help me understand it.
Still, this set is a great value.
Beautiful stuff - WCW at the prime
I think it is very cool how William Carlos Williams incorporated lots of his poems into one single book.
I think that is a very cool thing to do and I like how he brought them all together in one book, but it could flow a little bit easier than it did.
I think the theme of this book is how to express words with meaning.
It is kind of a different theme to me but truly that is what I see in this book, how deeply and thoroughly William Carlos Williams expresses the words and gives them deeper meaning.
The ten poems from Pictures from Breughel (1962) which related directly to the old master, provide ekphrastic insights about the Brueghel's view on nature of man.
The other 55 poems range in content and form, and experiment with the measured line.
The master of the triadic stanza effortlessly delivers in this collection.The two that stand out to me:"The Pink Locust" & "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower""The Pink Locust" is the type of poem that supplants my teenaged-influenced love of 2pac Shakur's early poem about determination, "The Rose That Grew From Concrete".
In the white-spaced 2.5 pages of the poem, Williams portrays resiliency in wonderful fashion, his bare-boned imagery rising out of the pages."Asphodel, That Greeny Flower" is a love poem, the depths of which are probably not fully felt immediately.
Perhaps my favorite lines[GOODREADS REFUSES TO ALLOW THE CORRECT SPACING ON THESE LINES.
p.156 Asphodel...: I cannot say/ that I have gone to hell/ for your love/ but often/ found myself there/ in your pursuit.The combined texts make for interesting reading, it allows the reader to trace the changes in line breaks, content and rhythm.
Variations in style and focus blossom within the text.
The later poems especially widen their focus and look beyond American everyday life and history.
I was surprised by the humor in some of the poems.
The Turtle is an especially laugh-worthy work.
I have never ascribed comedy to the author, but it pops up in a couple of different poems.
'Brueghel' covers the final decade of Williams' life, and incorporates techniques developed over the course of 50 years following the publication of his first book in 1909.
he insists) come together in this final attempt by Williams to 'capture the rhythms of American speech.' Also, by this time his revolutionary technical innovation, the 'variable foot', had fully matured; the 'triadic verse' format used throughout 'Brueghel' was developed specifically to showcase its use.This is both an important work and an absolutely beautiful one, and I recommend it to anyone with an interest in American poery.nd
Just as Brueghel was all about painting ordinary life, Williams is all about putting it in words.
That is illustrated beautifully in his poem about the painting of Icarus by Brueghel.
And like Brueghel, Williams tells the whole story in one picture.
It is like a picture, one word here, another one there, everything scattered and yet beautifully organized.
To me, based on this initial encounter with him, Williams is a bit like the Andy Warhol of poetry, fun to watch and he helps us see some greatness in our banal everyday lives and so on.
I remember learning about Williams in a class I took my freshman year of college, and something about him always stuck in my mind.
We didn't read much of him in that class, but he quickly became a favorite of mine, and I would write papers about him as much as I could that semester.
To be honest, I don't normally read books I buy immediately, but I felt like I had to with this one.
Some of the poems were familiar, but most were not, and I was glad to have so many new ones to read.
From the pen of a great modern poet.His meter is decided by the variable syllables of speech, of "common expression"--> Except that Williams' expression is so precise and exact in its direction...
A lot of his poems end up being about poetry itself: "How shall we go about saying what needs to be said?" --> Only the poem...Williams demonstrates the power of poetry as the ultimate form of communication, or moving forward clearly through the exchange of ideas, the creative use of the human imagination...
Poetry (and all art?) end up being the highest expression of humanness, the "flower" of humanness.No less from Williams; no less from this book of poetry.
I never considered myself a lover of poetry.
I always poo-pooed it and never really gave it much credence.
That changes early this year when I took my first course focused on writing poetry in a workshop format.
It is easy to see why some think of him as the greatest American poet of the Twentieth Century and one of the all time greats, bar none.
I found myself mesmerized by Williams' subject matter, rhythm, construction, and structure all at the same time.
These poems are truly breathtaking and demonstrate the range of his poetry.
Williams never got old! In his later age, he found finally youth. He became Auden, and Auden, on the back cover, lauds "Asphodel That Greeny Flower" as one of the greatest love poems in our language. Williams learned to use the details of observed silence into the metric meanings of elastic verse. Whether or not he "succeeds," or usually "succeeds," is inessential. He is teaching us what a poet should be. And no one really listened. Though the Beats THOUGHT they did. Perhaps it only works in New Jersey?
This was a long week, and this book took me longer to read than it should have, but I'm glad I stuck with it. I flew through Pictures from Brueghel, the uncollected poems at the front of the book, and loved it pretty much in its entirety. The Desert Music and Journey to Love were somewhat hit or miss, I thought, but the ultimate poems in each book -- "The Desert Music" and "Asphodel, That Greeny Flower" -- were both excellent.
If I at all thought Collins' Horoscopes for the Dead was an aging poet writing for himself, Williams surpasses him ten times over, not to imply that it was at all unenjoyable. It was no Spring and All, but then again what is. Too many birds and flowers for my taste but some truly great poems shine on, some of his best in fact. A solid collection. 2014-2
I really like Williams' themes, imagery. Some of his poems are very striking for me, but I just haven't quite figured out his measure/meter, which is kind of distressing, because that is apparently Williams' big thing. Oh well - I figure the more I read, the more I'll absorb.
