https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29908754-the-zombie-room
This is a brilliant Thriller. Love the characterization of the main characters Mangle, Decker and Tazeem with different backgrounds who end up together. When I was thinking how the author will connect the Zombie Room to the story, the introduction of Zombie Room was interesting and some parts were really scary. Several fights towards the end were interesting and cinematic. Overall the book was fun and thrilling to read. 4.25/5.
"This book is terrible" was pretty much the consensus of every person in our book club. It's unrealistic, juvenile, misogynistic, and boring. It feels like it was written by an unmediacted 14-year-old boy with ADD who has seen too many bad movies.
The emotions and character connections that are found in the book are far beyond anything I have ever read and I am yet to find a story that manages to be as complex in story line and character creation while at the same time being as easy to follow and be so addictive.
This is a MUST read for anyone who wants to delve their minds in to the worlds criminal underworld and feel the sharp edge of empathy towards characters that are bound to stay in memory for a very long time to come.
Verdict: outstanding!!
I loved this book from the very beginning, the plot is very cleverly put together. The twists and turns make it impossible to put down. Also, the characters in the Zombie Room stay with you long after you finish the book, they are weirdly endearing criminals. A must-read if you are looking for a good thriller.
brilliant book for such a small book it was surprising how much happened. A definite twist at the end. Highly recommend if your into these kind of books.
The characters are diverse and effort was obviously expended to make their actions consistent with their background as established in the early pages.
That said, the characters remain a somewhat cardboard - though it is a high quality of cardboard.
I did find the end somewhat unsatisfying.
If this is the first part of a multi-part saga then there is time to fix that.
And I would like to see more of these characters, especially Decker.
If you are not expecting a Bosch, Reacher or John Rain you will have a good time with this book.
this piece of writing needs so much editing that i can't call it a book.
Tiny points but should have been picked up in the editing.(view spoiler)[The biggest problem for me though was the abrupt ending, I actually thought there was an issue with the ebook version as it just seems to stop with no real resolution.
I know life doesn't have neat endings, but I want to know just a little more about the central characters post all the excitement and indeed, the baddies.
Perhaps there is a follow up planed, but the Kindle version that I read via the Android app just stops.
(hide spoiler)]
1.5 I don't really read much from this genre so I really tried to be openminded about it. The story was flat for me, no character depth, the story felt scattered, and I really found myself not caring what happened. The writing flow and rapid change of POV was a real issue for me. If I hadn't of needed this for two challenges I probably would of DNF it. The only good thing I can say is that at least it was short.
Nope, this book isn't one of those annoying zombie dystopian novels despite its title. Actually it's about three men in prison and the way they survive. I found the language too crass and rude sometimes but otherwise The Zombie Room is an excellent novel with themes similar to books and films like The Shawshank Redemption and Prison of Secrets.
BORRRRRIIIIIIINNNNNNNGGGGGGGGGGG!!!!!!!!!
This book was written poorly; the format was strange and it skipped around too much an had no way of differentiating when the narrator was talking about a new character. I don't recommend.
Well I have a few different feelings about this book.
This is my first novel I've read by this author.
And I'm not sure if it was the kindle format or what, but I was so confused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the book would start talking about someone/thing else.
For instance, when Mohammad is bringing the money, and he is clearly the only one in the scene, then it says that Sadiq unzips the bag.
No Sadiq in this scene.
It was just odd to read.
Not the worst I've spent on a mediocre book.
I had high expectations with this novel. Actually the beginning part of this book was highly enjoyable and the events turned out pretty fast paced with unpredictable story line. But after second half, the story was really confusing .I was bemused by how it would start talking about one character then the next swipe of the book would start talking about something else. And the worst part of this book was the ending. The abrupt ending was highly disappointing . The Zombie Room has an intelligent premise, but it could have been better executed.
I really should of read the synopsis cause this book isn't about Zombies at all ! BUT it's a great read , fast paced , enough back story to get you by and few twists and turns along the way !
its not that good
Not exactly your typical "heroes" but these three men have ended up together in prison - following some bad life decisions - and form an unlikely bond in prison.When they are eventually released, they look for ways to make money but stumble upon a sophisticated sex-trafficking operation that leads them in to real danger.
A family member disappears and a friend is killed.Will the three men get justice and be brave enough to bring down "The Zombie Room"?RD Ronald builds characters who are flawed but who you root for as they bond and prove themselves to be good and brave men.
I don't usually write reviews but I need to prevent other people from choosing to read this. If I could rate this book lower than 1 star I would. So poorly written and terrible.
I felt like I was reading a rough draft. It was choppy. The characters had interesting stories but it just came across completely flat in every aspect.
A gritty, crime drama, which shows the depths you can fall, when you make the wrong decisions, on the wrong side of the law.Great book with non-stop action and plenty of twists and turns.
I wanted to like this book, and according to the reviews a lot of people did. But personally I never got attached to the characters and it just sort of felt like a cheesy crime novel.
An excellent tale of betrayal, deceit and corruption that gives an in-depth insight on the lives of 
In all honesty I hadn't heard of Richard or his books, but he spoke with such conviction and passion about his work and why he writes, I bought both his titles, The Zombie Room and The Elephant Tree and I have to say I was not disappointed!
In fact I read The Zombie Room on the flight back to the US becasue I couldn't put it down.
The Zombie Room is an excellent, well written book that really encompassed the passion that the author expressed when we spoke.
I would urge you to read this book and if you get a chance, chat to the author on Facebook.
Loved this book. I read 'The Elephant Tree', Ronald's first novel last year, and had to pick up 'The Zombie Room' when it came out this year. Ronald picks up the pace in this novel, with WAY more action, more characters, and even a cameo from a character in his first book. I'm excited that he linked the two novels, evolving the world in which they belong... and also their stories.This novel deals with race, prison, violence, sex trafficking, illegal immigration.... and much more. It reads like an action movie, in fact, probably should become one!
Another great book from RD Ronald. this book as with the elephant tree consumes your mind. it takes you on a journey through lives that you would never normally know exists. the whole story seems real.
I don't understand all the rave reviews about this book. I found I was interested at the beginning, but soon found it almost painful to get through. The descriptions brought back memories of high school creative writing class. I really wanted to like it, but sadly, just couldn't.
This book pulls out all the stops. It's risky and that's what gives it its success. At many parts, my heart raced for the sake of the characters. There were some surprises and some bits that were bound to happen, but happen a little differently than expected.
Honestly I thought this book was pretty good but I kind of expected my action... There were quite a few interesting cliffhangers and mysterious situations but nothing really triggered me.
Well written and dark. I liked it.
This book has loads of great twists and turns, I seriously didn't put it down and finished it in 3 days!
