https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21719.Kisscut
This is a two part review.
The first part is my review in words, the second part is my review in gifs.
I know not everyone likes gifs in reviews, and this part is for you.
But, if you like a tale told through gifs, check out part two!Part OneThis was a my second Karin Slaughter book and the second in the Grant County series.
However, she is all about shock value.
If you like crime thrillers and don't mind uncomfortable content, then this book is for you!
Each page seemed to be trying to out do the page before it when it came to shocking grossness.
Kisscut is not for the fainthearted, graphic repulsive subject matter, very horrifying scenes of intense evil, and layer upon layer of deception.
Be warned!!Kisscut is the second book in the Grant County Series.
The book opens explosively.
Sara witnesses the event and Jeffrey is on the scene shortly after it startsand is forced to do the unthinkable.The confrontation sets into motion a complex investigation of a group of teens in Grant County.
As Jeffrey follows leads connecting thecriminals together, he is amazed at what he learns.
Kisscut takes a look at a brutal and dark side of modern society.I just loved this book.
The story begins at a skating rink where a young girl pulls a gun on another teen and a standoff involving the police ensues.
It's an awful, uncomfortable story that Slaughter tells masterfully.
My emotions were all over the place, especially where Lena is concerned.
By the end, I couldn't believe my feelings of sympathy for her, an amazing feat.
Her soliloquy near the end was extraordinary.
I'm pulling for Lena but I know she's going to disappoint me 100 times throughout this series.
Second in the Grant County series, Kisscut kept me up over my weekend until I finished it, that is typical Karen Slaughter. She delivers on everything, great characters, intriguing mystery, and plenty of creepy criminals. This time it's pedophile pornographers outed because one poor kid was pushed too far. I pretty much figured out one of the monsters before his reveal, but there were at least 3 things that shocked and surprised me along the way.
I continue to root for Sara and Jeffery as they work towards solving yet more horrific murders.This book begins in a skating rink and ends with a shooting that will haunt Jeffrey the entire book.
In true Slaughter fashion, this is the beginning of a very HUGE problem that will get much worse before it gets better.
Once again this series begins with Sara being on the scene and heavily involved in the case as a pediatrician and a coroner.
I like their story and how they work together (and argue together) to solve the case.
"How could this happen?" This one was more disturbing than the previous one.We have Sara and Jeffrey ... divorced ... but sort of "in a relationship". I don't get them.Lena is another enigma. Do I like her? Not really. What happened to her was dreadful.Three stars really doesn't have me running to start the next book but I will. I want to read Sara's story before I meet her in the Will Trent novels by the same author. The moon was high above the trees, and a breeze was coming in off the lake.
"How could this happen?"
This one was more disturbing than the previous one.We have Sara and Jeffrey ... divorced ... but sort of "in a relationship". I don't get them.Lena is another enigma. Do I like her? Not really. What happened to her was dreadful.Three stars really doesn't have me running to start the next book but I will. I want to read Sara's story before I meet her in the Will Trent novels by the same author.
  The moon was high above the trees, and a breeze was coming in off the lake.
Note: The crimes involved in Kisscut are perpetrated against children.
Kisscut is the second installment in Karin Slaughter's thriller series titled: Grant County.
In my opinion, Kisscut serves the admirable purpose of bringing awareness to cycles of abuse, how victimization can alter vulnerable young minds in terms of how healthy relationships are viewed/processed, and how a perpetrator can indeed be someone other than "the dirty old man" across the street.
A 5-star written story, but a 4-star reading experience for me personally.
Based on my experience with books #1 and #2, the stationary characters in this series have an ongoing storyline that may be enjoyed best by reading in order.
Disturbing subject matter & abrupt ending made for a disappointing read compared to Blindsighted.
Now let me explain, the subject matter of this book was painful and at time sickening to read.
I have also thought that I had read and seen some of the most grisly crime scenes ever, but the one at the beginning of this book was hard to deal with as well.Now with all of this said I must give Karin Slaughter credit for writing so well, and having wonderful characters that kept me turning page after page.
This was suspenseful, thrilling and at the same time, made me want to shower when I had to admit to myself that I really enjoyed this book.
I'm glad I was warned but even still.. this was brutal. Equally tough, too, were the emotional hurdles that the recurring cast had to tackle. The only light spot was the slowly-being-repaired relationship between Sara and Jeffrey.I need a fluffy story, stat.
One person can be scarred and psychologically maimed for life seeing another person get slapped, while someone else can be raped from age two to thirteen and find recovery eventually in time, with no one knowing there ever was a bad childhood.Books like this are an answer, a good effective one in my opinion.
I have to admit I have not read the first book in this series.
I tried it years ago and gave up because I did not like the characters and thought the story line was silly.
I will have to try it again now I have read #2.
I still don't like the characters but this time the story dragged me in and I raced through the book.
I hope the interactions between Jeffrey and Sara at least do improve in future books.
I will find out because after I have gone back and read book #1 I will certainly carry on with this series.
This was the hardest Slaughter book that I've read to date because it deals with child pornography and child abuse. With that said - the writing is amazing and I love how our main characters are developing.
But the truth cannot be hidden forever, as Sara inexorably peels back the many layers of an inhuman outrage that goes far beyond mere murder.
Slaughter pulls no punches and spares no emotion but for me personally this lacked the gripping tension of Blindsighted as I had guessed the villains early as I am sure many readers would have done.In light of so many kidnappings and murders of young girls in America and worldwide, you will realize that Karin Slaughter's message is real and has deadly consequences.

EXCERPT: At twenty-eight weeks old, Jenny Weaver's child might have been viable outside the womb had its mother not tried to flush it down the toilet.
Using tiny sutures instead of the usual baseball stitches, Sara had sewn the paper thin flesh back together into the semblance of a child.
The autopsy reveals evidence of long-term abuse, of ritualistic self -mutilation, but when Sara and police chief Jeffrey Tolliver start to investigate, they are frustrated at every turn.The children surrounding the victim close ranks.
But unless Lena, Sara, and Jeffrey can uncover the deadly secrets the children hide, it's going to happen again .
Worthy only of mention in the last chapter, when the other girl victim does a little monologue wrapping up all the loose ends that Dr. Linton and her husband can't possibly figure out on their own, as all the bad guys are either dead, in a coma or escaped.It seems to me like the author has some really BIG, GRAND ideas for a crime story at the beginning of both books I've read.
Nothing wrong with that, to be sure, but I'm starting to think from reading her books that she ends up not knowing what to do with them all.
My (limited) experience with female authors in this genre, up to then, were stories that were not very violent or shocking, and left me feeling that they were more focused on a love story for the main character, and the thriller part was nothing but fluff.That day, however, I picked up the book and read the blurb, which was interesting enough to make me take a chance.When I finished the book, less than three days later, my first thought was – that was one of the sickest things I’ve ever read.
I can also say that there are a few other female thriller authors whose books I love and read regularly.I think this book changed me for the better.
At first, I felt this story had too much of a drama/almost chick-lit feel to the style of writing – Slaughter is great at character development and intricacies between her characters but it went a bit too far for me in the first part of the book.
Sara Linton felt like a real woman with a career that takes her into the morgue, guilt about her child clients she has been unable to protect and feelings for Jeffrey (her ex-husband) that are complex and irrational.
Lena is struggling to overcome the events in the first book of this series and we see her very realistically on-the-edge and threatening to go over it.
Kisscut is the second novel in the Grant County series.
Again Slaughter has created a character driven novel that garners empathy and hatred depending on who you're reading about.
They may not all be likeable characters but when was life full of all things likeable?!I very much enjoyed Kisscut insofar as not being able to put it down until I was done.
The Grant County series is shaping up to be a real good one and I hope every book can hold it's own .....
Kisscut, the 2nd novel in Karin Slaughter's Grant County Series opens with a shocking and horrific scene.
The fatal shooting of a teenage girl by the local police chief, Jeffrey Tolliver leads to the gruesome discovery of pedophilia, incest and children's porn right in the small town.This was a really shocking and unsettling story of child abuse, secrets and depravity with some really disturbing scenes.
The author created such a feeling of menace and evil in the town that had me on the edge of my seat.The ending is even more unexpected than what I was expecting.
I don't know if fiction thrillers can always be compared to "real life," but in life there are not always happy endings.
So I guess I felt that it was not unrealistic to have loose ends in Kisscut.
I have read some reviewers who have said that none of the main characters are "likeable." They are definitely flawed, but I do like watching their relationships unfold and develop, warts and all.
I always like to see how people and events are connected, so on the whole, I found Kisscut to be a good page-turner.
This is the second book in the Grant County series.When the book begins Jenny Weaver, a high school student is pointing a gun at another teenager, Mark Patterson and both Sara and Jeffrey are witnesses to this horrible site. Let me back up a little...Sara Linton is with her sister Tessa at the skating rink. She's waiting on Jeffrey, her ex-husband (whom she has feelings for) to meet them there when she makes a gruesome discovery in the restroom. At the same time, Jeffrey is put into the worst p
This is the second book in the Grant County series.When the book begins Jenny Weaver, a high school student is pointing a gun at another teenager, Mark Patterson and both Sara and Jeffrey are witnesses to this horrible site.
Sara, Lena and, Jeffrey will stop at nothing to find the truth.
Some of my issues with the book had to do with two of the characters:I still don't get Sara and Jeffrey together.
Here are some of the things he was thinking about Sara:
Most of the time I was either sorry or irritated by her and I still don't like her animosity towards Sara.
Karin Slaughter, Kisscut (Harper Collins, 2002)I was wandering along in the middle of Kisscut half enjoying the novel and half wondering if this thing was really as obvious as it had seemed since chapter two, thinking that I was really, really going to hate this book if it was.
The real plot kicks off in chapter two, and if you've seen any three random lifetime original movies, or read three random books of this stripe, by the time chapter two ends, you should know every twist and turn this plot is going to take, as well as the main perpetrator who gets arrested during the Big Reveal.
I'm a little torn about this book..overall I liked the story but if I linger a little more on its parts there are a lot of things that didn't convince me.One of the biggest problems, I'm sad to say, is the main characters: Sara, Jeffrey and Lena.
It seems indeed a strategy to capture the reader's attention from the very first chapter and there wouldn't be anything wrong about it if the author was prepared to handle these elements giving a satisfactory explanation of these facts at the end of the book...unfortunately this wasn't the case and, in the end, I was a little disappointed with the solution offered.
I liked this one, but I didn't fall in love with it.
I liked the first half so much better than the last half.
I don't like it when there is such a huge difference like that.
I think the last half was too over the top for me.
This author seems to do "over the top"well.
While I usually like that when it is firmly tied to the reality the author is painting, this one seemed like a runaway train.
It kept hopping, skipping and jumping.
I really like Sara though.
She is a great anchor for this author's books though.
Loved re-reading this 2nd novel in her Grant County series!
Jeffrey, Sara and Detective Lena Adams are forced to confront the evil in their own backyard.
Jeffrey yearns for Sara.
She is still suicidal, more a frightened girl than tough female cop and yet you root for her.The characters and storyline of Kisscut by Karin Slaughter will remain in your mind days after you’ve stopped reading.
Other authors who fit the bill are Jeffrey Deaver, Ian Rankin and Michael Connelly.If you are a fan of forensic crime thrillers, read this book.
If you are a reader who enjoys a good story and good characters, read this book.
Karin Slaughter likes to shock the reader whether it be graphic forensic details or heinous crimes and vile people. But it's the characters solving these crimes that keep me coming back to this series trying to cope with everyday life in the midst of all this brutality. And this is where Karen Slaughter excels and makes this more than just a murder mystery. 3.5 stars
Kisscut is the second book in the Grant County series by author Karin Slaughter. It is a thriller with lots of R rated material. (view spoiler)[ child pornography and incest are a few of the topics this book includes.... (hide spoiler)]I don't read much of this genre so have little to compare it to. The book was OK and a short read.2.75 stars
