https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4413772-a-witch-shall-be-born

Action-packed "sword and sorcery" novella featuring Conan the Barbarian. Violent and over-the-top, but alot of fun to read. The story centers on an evil-twin witch who impersonates her sister, the queen, in order to take over the Khauran kingdom. Will she succeed in her evil plan? Not if Conan has anything to do with it! (Can be found at Project Gutenberg http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/42227 )
Plină de intrigi şi suspans, o adevărată capodoperă a literaturii fantasy!Recenzie completă: https://yukiblack.wordpress.com/2016/...
A superb translation. Highly recommended.
También aquí es donde hay un divertido enfrentamiento dialéctico entre el líder de un ejército que da trabajo a Conan y el propio Conan: el comandante dice que gracias a él Conan está donde está y que sin él no se habría comido un colín, y que por eso tiene que obedecerle ciegamente.
Conan le dice que no, que él está donde está porque ha sangrado y sudado como cualquiera, y que por el mero hecho de ser líder o dirigir a una compañía pues no te mereces que te traten como a un dios.
This is a treat. Sword and sorcery at its best. One of my more favorite Conan tales, it has many facets and interesting storytelling elements. Many times Conan is mentioned almost as a supporting character, and then Howard brings him front and center in an awesome way. It's just splendid Howard storytelling at its best.
First time I read a story of Robert Howard. It was quite short and it is not easy for me to rate it as my expectations were quite high because Conan the Barbarian was and is such a well known character and Howard has many fans - I was uncertain between 3 or 4 stars but I will give it three as I think the story is a bit of a cliché.
A queen is dethroned by her evil twin that was once thrown out into the desert and left to die because she was born with the mark of a witch.
The outcasted sister builds up her powerful magic and hatred over the years and turns it against the kingdom that left her to die.
Conan comes along to make the evil sister pay for her crimes and restore the glory of the true queen.
Salome is one of the most sympathetic villains in the entire Conan the Barbarian series.
Howard.The story takes place with a ‘Man in the Iron Mask’ scenario where a queen is replaced by an evil twin.
Conan is captain of the city guards, and knows something is wrong, but he is captured, crucified, and left for dead.
I doubt it’s too much of a spoiler to say that he escapes and seeks vengeance.Conan is the hero of this story, however he appears in only about half of it.
The rest of the time, we follow other characters living in the conquered city, both good and evil.
A witch usurps the throne of Khauran and grinds it under her evil thumb. Fortunately, the captain of the queen’s guard is a certain barbarian who goes by the name of Conan.The epic sweep that Robert E. Howard packs into this slim novelette is pretty remarkable. He is writing at the height of his power here, as exemplified by the brutal crucifixion scene that eventually made its way into the Schwarzenegger movie many years later.
An amusing free quick read on the go. Like a short trip through the most lurid Frank Frazetta painting imaginable, unashamedly steaming and dripping with sex and gore. I laughed the whole way through at the over the top prose. If Conan himself wrote for Harlequin Romance, this would be his first book.
O carte în care suspansul și acțiunea sunt prezente la fiecare pagină. Un concentrat de sword&sorcery ieșit chiar din mașina de scris a unuia dintre părinții genului și potențat de o traducere cum rar am întâlnit.
Conan crucified!A witch (as advertised).Battles and conflict and stuff.This is a great Conan story.
It's a problem; you have a do-good, naïve, innocent good guy who you can't stand to be around, and a really awesome bad guy who has neato spells and a great wardrobe.
What to do?Well, this is not a problem in Conan.
You really want to be on Conan's side.
I feel like the titular character in this one is a pretty cool character, but in no way is she anyone I'd want to take sides with.
And so is Conan.
Howard spins a good adventure yarn, but in this his ant-Semitism becomes apparent. Conan is crucified by ““thick-bodied Shemites with curled blue-black beards and hooked noses”, only to survive and rise again (sound familiar?). I discovered Conan over forty years ago. I won’t hesitate to read him, but I also won’t hesitate to criticize his racist and anti-Semitic characterizations, which aren’t excused by the times he lived in.
Чували ли сте истории за Конан Варварина? Ако не сте чели истории за него, може би сте гледали филми за неговите подвизи? Конан - силен, безстрашен и вдъхващ страх у враговете си се впуска в ново приключение.Историята е кратка. Чете се за нула време.Не успя да ме впечатли. Може би защото е доста далеч от нещата, които предизвикват моят интерес.Още малко инфо на sviatotdumi.blogspot.bg
Nice story, but Conan seemed to thrown in as an afterthought. Story revolved around an uprising to get the queen back from her witch sister. Conan used to be her captain of the guard? Yeah, weird fit. Most of his fighting was off stage and another saved the true queen.
Максимум кеф. Е, това е, Конан Варваринът - чиста проба мъж и войн! Припомни ми времената, когато гледах сериала Херкулес (о, да, навремето си беше голяма работа :D) и се радвах на подвизите му.
👍👌
Între două coperți lucioase ilustrate de Ionel Jinga, există o istorisire ce te atrage într-o lume din care nu mai vrei să ieși pentru că totul este feeric și niciodată nu poți intui ce urmează, fiind mereu surprins de următorul rând sau chiar cuvânt.
Cu toate aceste trăsături aparent “barbarice” , Conan este un individ corect și de onoare, lucru care m-a atras în mod deosebit la el.Acțiunea nuvelei se învârte în jurul poveștii a două gemene, prințese ale Khauranului, ce au fost despărțite la naștere pentru că una dintre ele a fost născută sub semnul infernului.
Each century, so the prophecy says, a girl shall be born with a red crescent birth mark on her chest.
And she shall be named Salome.
He is leader of the Queen’s guard and he sees the evil twin’s true face (or nature) and starts shouting that she is not the real queen.
After he is captured, the evil queen left him crucified outside the town .
But seven months later, the brigand’s army is his; he’s won them with feats of strength and loyalty.Now, he returns to release the queen with help from conspirators inside the city.And then with his new army, he rides off to another adventure.3 blood thirsty stars
Indeed she is, for the queen has been captured and replaced by her wicked twin sister Salome, born with the sign of the witch and abandoned for dead at birth, but saved by a passing magician, reared in black wisdom and now back for revenge.The most memorable moment from this story is undoubtedly Conan's crucifixion, nailed to a tree outside the city and left for the vultures to prey upon.
Elsewhere the story is fairly sparing with Conan himself, granting more room to the support characters but subsisting primarily on the atmosphere of sadism and sexual degradation enjoyed by the witch and her equally debouched consort, Constantius of Koth.It's worth a read for that one scene alone though.

Good Queen Taramis, ruler of Khuran lies asleep in her bedchamber asleep, minding her own business. She wakes to see her own face, but it's not her—her twin sister, born with the mark of a witch and abandoned at birth, stands above her. She's about to get even for her shabby treatment. The only person who realizes there's something wrong with the person calling herself Taramis is the captain of the guard, a giant of a man named Conan. Please read the full review here.
Surprisingly good read. It is better writing than I expected, still pulp fiction style, but Howard gives life to the characters and purpose to their actions. Conan is not the dumb brute of the movies but smart, sly and not to be fully trusted, but still a beast on the battlefield. Here he does little fighting but organizes the whole rescue the princess scenario. The question is where are the modern day heroes who will not just correct wrongs but punish utterly all injustice and destroy any who thwart the right? Conan, though a Barbarian is that man.
As the REH Conan stories go this one is pretty average. (ie its a great read.) A witch replaces her twin sister as queen of a city state and Conan (captain of the Queen's guard) ain't too happy about it ... Also as a bit of trivia, the crucifixion scene from the Arnie movie is taken from this one.
Mi-a placut foarte mult cartea deoarece suspansul, aventura si magia se imbina armonios, provocandu-ma sa dau pagina dupa pagina, fara sa ma pot opri. Personajele si universul actiunii sunt minunat conturate, indemnandu-mi imaginatia sa schiteze si sa-mi aduca in fata ochilor universul creat de autor.
Very entertaining, short novel, set in a sort of Arabian Nights-type era. Twin girls are born and one becomes queen, the other -- whose birth is unknown to the first -- is a witch. Witch takes over queen's kingdom, many brave men fight to reclaim it.
Nice read.
Lovely, classic sword and sorcery story, a bit cliched, and a bit too short. I really wanted to read more about what Conan was doing between getting rescued and freeing Khauran.
Great Conan story! Definitely over the top and ridiculous at times, but excellent pulp reading.
