https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17040283-imprisoned-with-the-pharaohs
But I instead was struck by two things: 1) how H.H.’s explorations in the pyramidal dark evoke the first half of Poe’s “The Pit and the Pendulum,” and 2) how the procession of beast-headed gods observed by Houdini resembles the march of the frog-fish of Innsmouth.Here for your enjoyment is a bit of the aforementioned procession:
Down limitless reaches of sunless pavement a spark of light flickered in the malodorous wind, and I drew behind the enormous circumference of a Cyclopic column that I might escape for a while the horror that was stalking million-footed toward me through gigantic hypostyles of inhuman dread and phobic antiquity.
This is the story Lovecraft ghost wrote for Houdini.
Somehow this is the first H.P. Lovecraft story I have ever read.
Kind of a strange one to read first, considering that it's the only thing he ever ghost-wrote, and it's ghost-written for Harry Houdini, which is just incredibly random.
It's overly descriptive, which sometimes I like, but in this situation it just annoyed me.
I really liked the dark tone and the descriptions of the setting, but it's just....to many words or something.
Besides all that, I did kinda like this story.
It's creepy and dark and grotesque, and made me want to learn more about Harry Houdini, actually :)
This is first story I've read by HP Lovecraft. I'm a huge Poe fan (as you all know) and my friend Court let me borrow her collection of Lovecraft's works, so I give him a go.Ugh. This one was boring. :/ I skimmed a lot. However, I loved the ending...that was creepy and unexpected and awesome. Honestly, the author should have shortened it up, but thats just my opinion.Not a great intro to Lovecraft, so onto the next short story.Out of five stars, I stamp this with 2 stars. Favorite Character(s): The half animal-mummies? LOLNot-so Favorite Character(s): No one really
One of the best. The creatures he describes are just so morbid. I think it's incredible how an author can make you so interested and surprise you in very few pages.
Yet, my final rating must be 2,50-2,75.I will be as frank as possible, I didn't like this particular story as much.
The only few things I enjoyed, and maybe it's the fact this book got a 2 from me, instead of 1, is the portraits and characteristics of the people, and  especially  of the pharaohs.
+ The navigation through the dark, without any lights whatsoever..only supported on the wind and sounds.I do feel like I am being too harsh, thus I am recommending this book with all my heart.
Just a warning, you might be left disappointed OR, maybe, filled with tears of joy.
“Egypt . . . truly, this dark cradle of civilization was ever the wellspring of horrors and marvels unspeakable!”Excellently evokes the sense of superstitious horror connected to the mysteries of Ancient Egypt and the pharoahs in popular imagination. Atmospheric and maintains a horrid claustrophobic feeling of terror and suspense which Lovecraft is renowned for.This was ghost written by Lovecraft for Harry Houdini and originally published in Weird Tales Magazine. Not a recommended starting point if you haven’t read Lovecraft before, but essential reading for fans of his writing.
Absolutely, one of my favorite Lovecraft tales. Who doesn't like ancient Egypt, mummies and archaeologists. I know it sounds like an Indiana Jones movie and it kind of is in slow motion. I love his tales and this is my favorite non-Cthulhu tale.
My main impression of this book is that it contains lots of SAT words.
Una de mis historias favoritas de Lovecraft. Si bien es atípica (no la escribió a nombre propio, sino para que Harry Houdini la publicara), es un perfecto ejemplo de lo descriptivo y oscuro que era el autor. Las historias del antiguo Egipto siempre me han movido mucho y son mis favoritas; ésta en particular revela una de las peores pesadillas de todo explorador: quedar atrapado en los secretos de las pirámides y ser juzgado por esas criaturas que consideramos mitológicas e inexistentes. Sobra decir que el final es arrasador.
Horror story--terrible (1 star)Travelogue--right on! (5 stars)
Another really interesting short horror story from Master Lovecraft!
It started well, but then it dragged on and on, talking about Giza and Kairo's monuments in such great detail, I felt like I was reading a lengthy tourist guide to Egypt.
Thus, there goes the final star.Then I started Part 2, where Lovecraft finally gets to the core of the story.
it gave me chills.I saw the horror and unwholesome antiquity of Egypt, and the grisly alliance it has always had with the tombs and temples of the dead.

Interesting that Houdini, the character of the story, was both inspiration for the story from his own tales but also a big patron.
It's barely passable as a horror and has more of his racism this time mixed with tourist borne colonialism "Egypt is the source of all evil" lol, STFU!
The monster ritual scene at the end was pretty cool and I wish he'd done more with it.
Granted, it's another tame ending because the character is alive and well (at time of writing).
But I suppose Houdini would keep it together more than anyone else.
3 stars... This audiobook had such potential! It had a horrible female narrator with a heavy accent who mispronounced such simple terms as Gaza and dynasty. Since it was Harry Houdini's story they should've used a male narrator. Then if you can get past all that, you're left wondering if you should really trust the story because it is Houdini after all. Would be a good thriller to be made into a movie if it hasn't already been done. Not good for claustrophobic peeps... Good thing it's short!
Lovecraft no era del tipo de persona que disfrutara de los viajes, además, su situación económica siempre fue tan apremiante que no podía permitírselo; no obstante, conocía a la perfección el primer cuadro Gizah, la disposición de los templos, pirámides, tumbas, y la historia del antiguo Egipto, un ejemplo del poder de la lectura. Harry Houdini, la esfinge, hombres con cabeza de animales, excelente.
Travelogue turned thriller turned horror. If you want a guide to Egypt, this will be interesting. If you want an engaging horror story, you'll be disappointed. The journey is fun, but the horror content is blasé.
ghost written for Houdini. one of lovecraft's more promising premises; suffers from the style abberation.
Perturbadora lectura, hay veces que no se logra distinguir lo real de lo fantástico.
Had nice world building but still slow and was overdoing it on the verbose side. The ending wasn't even that great, the only thing I really did enjoy was the description of the creatures met. The way Queen Nitros' face was very briefly described made me wince and Lovecraft didn't even use any "imposing" words to do so. This story doesn't really hold up today as I imagine it would've before.

Having this be told from the first person pov of an actual person made it even more enthralling. Especially because the narrator (Lovecraft writing a fictionalized account of Harry Houdini's experience in Egypt in 1910) attributes the events of this story to his fame as an escape artist.Thoroughly entertaining! Some Favorite Quotes: Travelling to seek curiosities, I was often forced to stand inspection as a sort of curiosity myself!Thank God for the mercy that shut out in oblivion those clawing
Having this be told from the first person pov of an actual person made it even more enthralling.
Especially because the narrator (Lovecraft writing a fictionalized account of Harry Houdini's experience in Egypt in 1910) attributes the events of this story to his fame as an escape artist.Thoroughly entertaining!
Some Favorite Quotes:
I can only wonder what sort of composition would result from an actual Lovecraft trip to Egypt?
However, I can definitely see how those less-interested would find it a tad dull and unnecessary for the surreal set-up.I think I can safely say I am well aware of the many methods and layouts Lovecraft has used throughout the anthology; but since this book is now entering his novelette writings, it is going to be interesting to see how those layouts are applied to the new length.
Hopefully I am surprised at something completely new from time to time.

This was the first piece of Lovecraft's that I had ever read.
Unlike most of his works, this story has an almost cereal adventure element to it because of the main character and the setting.
But Lovecraft still brings out otherworldly or underworldly events and beings that perpetuate the hideous and fantastic sights before the main characters eyes.
It is delightfully surprising to see that Lovecraft's incredible talent of tone and description of horrific is not limited to stories of witch craft, Cthulhu, or the Necronomicon.
His handling of ancient Egypt, its underworld and all else it entails is powerfully presented in this work.
Weird.. That's the exact word for it. Feeling so strange about Egypt is abnormal in itself. Like it is conspiring against the narrator and pushing him into unknown depths of the past. And more creepy were the creatures described. But I think I would have liked it better had there been any interaction between the narrator and those creatures of the nether world. This is my first Lovecraft. And I really hope to read more..
Incredibly effective and one of the most imaginative of Lovecraft's works. The tone and atmosphere building, alongside the unique setting of Egypt, crescendo into a climax well foreshadowed, but entirely unexpected and chilling in its execution. Probably one of Lovecraft's best works of his early career, and particularly different enough from his other work to make it a fascinating departure to a foreign, nightmarish, (occasionally misrepresented) land.
Not my favorite Lovecraft, mostly because it starts so slow. I think he does that to set up how normal of a person our narrator is - how wide eyed and bushy tailed he is. It makes sense that the narrator convinces himself his vision under the sphinx could be nothing more than a dream. The imagery is beautiful and hits on all the senses so well. Lovecraft is a master at creating an experiential story.
Si unes a Harry Houdini con H. P. Lovecraft el resultado es un relato magnífico con un final hilarante. Puede que el principio sea tedioso con descripciones geográficas de Egipto pero, para mí, ha sido gratificantes. Cómo Lovecraft, sin siquiera haber visitado la tierra de los antiguos faraones, lo muestra como si él mismo estuviera allí. Brillante relato. <3
I thought this one wasn't terribly satisfying. I wanted to know more about the mysterious ritual going on in the underbelly of the sphinx, and the monster peering through the aperture... But that seems to be his style, tantalizing the creature just out of view, allowing the reader only to glimpse it and fill in the details with their own imagination.
