https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18077769-authority
I guess this mirrors the feelings the main characters are supposed to be experiencing in the least fun way possible.None of the little mysteries really go anywhere exciting, and the good stuff that happens is pretty random and not driven at all by the events that precede it.
The main event near the end of the book could have just happened on page 50 and spared us the main part of the book.Maybe I'm being harsh!
There is another book on its way after all.
It could all slot together and be a satisfying adventure story - but my interest is pretty dented.Annihilation, was a fun, really short, little mystery that flew along.
”In the black water with the sun shining at midnight, those fruit shall come ripe and in the darkness of that which is golden shall split open to reveal the revelation of the fatal softness in the earth.” John A.K.A. Control has been made director of The Southern Reach Facility. The last director finagled her way onto the last expedition into Area X and has never been seen or heard from again. The assistant director doesn’t only dislike him, but is working actively to undermine him. I’ve been in
The last director finagled her way onto the last expedition into Area X and has never been seen or heard from again.
I was expecting to be up to my armpits in malicious people eating foliage, attempting to keep my brain from going completely Gonzo, and hopefully finding answers to some lingering questions about Area X.
The suspense builds beautifully with many moments of...that was odd...until finally it reaches a crescendo with Control on the run not only from Area X, but also from the people at Central.
Maybe I mean one of those other stodgy old writers from Advanced English who was clearly writing about the Human Condition in Big Fat Metaphors.
Anyway, just think of some story from your memory of something that was well-done, full of Deep Meaning about the Human Condition, with a confused narrator, a whole lot of navel-gazing about Ineffectual Man, and you’ll about have it.Authority is clearly the next side to the prism that composes the Southern Reach Trilogy, but this installment is focused a new character, government official John Rodriguez.
And on the rare occasions someone comes back, death seems like a merciful option.Called in by not only his job with the CIA, but by his powerhouse agent of a mother, Control is plunged into the fetid, putrid recesses of the Southern Reach.And what he finds there is horrifying....Things I Can Tell You Without Spoiling Anything:1.) This is a strong horror entry.
The book will not make sense to you.Whereas Annihilation is primal, feral, taking place in the festering swamplands and filled with terrifying beasts that remain just out of your line of vision - Authority relies on the horror of this kind of merciless and relentless wilderness slowly creeping into an urban environment.
I was hoping this book would provide some illumination of the events of Annihilation, but after getting to the 50% mark without the slightest clue, I cannot justify wasting any more precious reading time.
Having read fairly widely, I'm pretty certain of what I will like or not, and this series is about as far from my tastes as I've encountered in a long time.
My apologies to all the GR readers who loved this book, I respect your opinions and tastes and I hope you won't think less of me, but why torture myself anymore?
The first entry in this series is a gripping, psychedelic adventure that reads like a nature-gone-wild acid trip.
This book, on the other hand, is like going to work with a punishing hangover.
You don't know what's going on and everybody is pushing piles of paper at you."A shadow had passed over the director's desk then.
Unfortunately...I also got super excited anytime Area X was mentioned, sort of like passing an old fling on your way to a funeral.
Rumors of a significant variation, of there being more to the story.
It's just that I'm incredibly disappointed in the turn this story took.
Set shortly after the events of the first book, it is completely different in feeling and in genre.
I adore the way he writes weird books where the weirdness is always grounded in what we know of the world he creates.
It is in direct contrast to what we know of Area X: which is untamed and unblemished by humanity – this feeling is mirrored in the sprawling, unfocussed, fascinating narrative voice of the first book.
But this book is set outside of Area X, in the organization that is trying to contain whatever is happening; and doing this in an increasingly rigid way.So yes, I do not even know what I make of this book.
An important cardinal rule of trilogies is thoroughly broken with "Authority," Book 2 in the Southern Reach Trilogy.
heck, even Catching Fire was the better of all the Hunger Games books).
"Authority" does none of this--it extinguishes the fire that was barely coming to light in book one.
Devastating news: VanderMeer only submerges into more murky waters a plot that's convoluted if barely there.
Mysteries piled on top of mysteries--this is as thrilling (&, I guess, as important, structurally) as drying cement.Will I accept book 3, "Acceptance"?
The book begins with some delicious theatrical irony for the readers of Annihilation.I put Annihilation, Jeff VanderMeek’s 2014 environmental thriller, down with one hand while reaching for the sequel with the other.Authority is in a different style and tone than was its predecessor.
John “Control” Rodriguez is sent in to be the new director of the secret agency, whose purpose it is to investigate Area X, a region of seemingly bucolic verdancy that hides a malevolent heart.
The border around Area X is like a DMZ, holding in check a menace that can only be guessed at.I noticed subtle references to Joseph Conrad’s Heart of Darkness in the first book and I see it again here.
The author, evidently paid by the word, tells a very long and atmospheric tale, approximately 200 pages overlong. An intriguing last few chapters and ending could stand alone as prelude to the final book.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveThe Publisher Says: After thirty years, the only human engagement with Area X--a seemingly malevolent landscape surrounded by an invisible border and mysteriously wiped clean of all signs of civilization--has been a series of expeditions overseen by a government agency so secret it has almost been forgotten: the Southern Reach.
But with each discovery he must confront disturbing truths about himself and the agency he's pledged to serve.In Authority, the second volume of Jeff VanderMeer's Southern Reach trilogy, Area X's most disturbing questions are answered .
Most of what teased me were the long conversations with Ghost Bird on the other side of an interrogation table, and I did look forward to each and every one of those, but it wasn't until Control had to leave the administration building that I started to gel with the novel, and that's a shame, because I actively started LIKING the novel at that point.I'm partial to being thrown into the actual action, not just having a taste of squabbling coworkers making a hash of sending so many damn people into Area X.
The aftermath of Annihilation is dealt with in Authority. Questions are answered with questions. And minds are forced to open. This book takes a very different direction from the first book. I thought I was going to be disappointed, but half way through and to the end I came to highly enjoy it. There is a lot of setup. Every little detail is significant. Maybe I’m a masochist, but I enjoy the confusion.
But it might be true.”After the genius that was Annihilation, I couldn't wait to get my hands on Authority.
No one really wants to tell him what's going on and the things he does find are super weird and also do not make any sense.The only intriguing parts of this novel were the meetings with the biologist, the main character from Annihilation.
She is such an interesting character and the only one that seems to have clear motives, even though they might not always be obvious to the reader.Authority kept me reading because I wanted answers.
The games these people play with one another and themselves, the hypnosis ploy, the further mystery not only of what created Area X but also of at least the last expedition (such as the fact that (view spoiler)[the psychologist was the director of Southern Reach (hide spoiler)]) - I felt like a sleuth and very much enjoyed piecing together yet more elements to form the big picture.Through Control's investigative work we get to know what we already deduced from the ending of the last book: that there have been many more than 11 expeditions in total; that Area X is not really contained (the rabbit story had me bang my head against the wall); that there was something weird about the psychologist (apart from the usual).
2.5 stars (somewhere between "meh" and "I liked it").This is a middle book and it shows.
The last 20% of this book is great--full of action.
Specifically, what I didn't care for:* I couldn't connect with the narrator.* Repetitive, slow-moving plot.* Instead of answers about Area X (Lovecraftian monsters?
A parallel dimension?), this is a book about government conspiracy/bureaucracy.
What I wanted was to find out what was going on at Area X, so I'll definitely read the next book, and like I said, this does pick up at the end.
There are some creepy hints dropped in this book, which I hope will be expanded upon.
Welcome to Southern Reach: After touring Area X in Annihilation this second installment of the "Southern Reach" trilogy takes us to the Southern Reach facility where very few questions are answered, more unexplained stuff happens, and sh*t gets even weirder.Authority is a completely different piece of story telling than Annihilation. Where Annihilation is a short sweet shock to the system like an infection, Authority is a slow-building panic attack of a novel.Our beloved biologist is replaced in
After touring Area X in Annihilation this second installment of the "Southern Reach" trilogy takes us to the Southern Reach facility where very few questions are answered, more unexplained stuff happens, and sh*t gets even weirder.Authority is a completely different piece of story telling than Annihilation.
Where Annihilation is a short sweet shock to the system like an infection, Authority is a slow-building panic attack of a novel.Our beloved biologist is replaced in Authority by Control, who is now our MC and official tour guide of the Southern Reach facility.
In Annihilation, we were exposed to the strange and dangerous other world of Area X; terrain cut-off from the rest of land by some mysterious event.
In Authority, the ambiguity is as abundant as it was in the first book yet the characters are a little more personable.
I do like the concept of ‘Control’ if nothing more than the ironic elements the nickname brings to the character) which add another layer of depth to what already is a deep spanning mystery.Right from the get-go author Jeff Vandermeer unleashes a big reveal that adds perspective and context to Annihilation.
I read this book twice.
I was 1/3 of the way through in the print and downloaded the audio because it is read by Bronson Pinchot, who I think is amazing.
But may I make a list of things I find scarier than Area X?-Crumbling government buildings with sickly smelling chemicals (if that's what it is)-Controlling mothers who give you strange nicknames and don't want you calling them Mom-Phones that crawl across roofs-Lost time-BunniesI think that's what Jeff VanderMeer does best in this book.
I don’t think the ending was worth holding out for if you don’t want to read book 3, but the ending was good.
Therefore- 2 whole stars.Why didn’t I like this?
Do you like complaining about the rotten honey smell of your office’s cleaning agents?
Do you like office politics?Congratulations!
Well do you like feeling delusional?Congratulations!
This book is for you.I have literally never been more disappointed by a book or an author in years.Borne was pretty good.
But dear God, please let the next book be from the Biologist’s POV.
(Which by the way- makes no sense since I’m pretty sure honey mostly doesn’t rot.)
An unsettling study of the ineffable. The indescribable. A slowly constricting knot. Our human edifices are evanescent. Or as I say in my novel  A Greater Monster , "A home is paper thin."Nature is a harsh taskmistress. Nature is implacable. We have been playing with fire for a long time now. Humans think they own the land. The clouds. The air. The water. We do not own it. It owns us. We've been borrowing it without paying back the principal. And it's going to come due soon.Authority is the seco
And it's going to come due soon.Authority is the second book in Jeff VanderMeer's Southern Reach Trilogy.
In some ways, the Southern Reach trilogy, at least so far in Books 1 and 2, is about that ineffable mystery of existence.
If you have read Book 1, then I won't reveal any major surprises from Book 2.(view spoiler)[Authority picks up a short time after Annhilation ends.
What is initially quite a surprise is that three of the characters who seemed to die in Book 1, have returned and are being questioned by the Southern Reach researchers.The story is written in close first-person, just as Annhilation was.
John Rodriquez/Control is tasked with finding the facts.
"What do you remember about your husband?""That I had one.""Did you know he came back, like you?" he asked.
"That he was disoriented, like you?""I'm not disoriented," she snapped, leaning forward and Control leaned back.
He wasn't afraid, but for a moment he'd thought he should be.
I was just not engaged like I was with the previous adventure.
On the plus side, there are a few moments of genuine creepiness in the latter third of the story and a lingering sense of foreboding.
The Good:As with Annihilation, this is wonderfully tense. The prose is great, conveying this small town mystery/thriller with humour and creeping dread. Excellent setting, great ideas, and some very good characters.The Bad:Once again, there is almost zero resolution. It’s frustrating, and turns an excellent book into a merely good one. It's also a bit slow.'Friends' character the protagonist is most like:Control is a failed spy turned incompetent administrator. He is dumber than he thinks he is, and on the precipice of losing all faith in himself. He’s like a late 30s, paranoid Joey Tribbiani.
The Floor beneath his shoes was grimy, almost sticky. The fluorescent lights above flickered at irregular intervals, and the tables and chairs seemed like something out of a high school cafeteria. He could smell the sour metal tang of a low quality cleaning agent, almost like rotting honey. The room did not inspire confidence in the Southern Reach. Far from the formidable, shadowy, mysterious organization it was portrayed as in Annihilation, the Southern Reach is actually a painfully prosaic go
By the end the rest of the Biologist's team has died or been killed and she sets off to an island described in a journal by her husband she found, along with journals of countless (many more that were reported) expeditions.Flash forward several months and there is a new Director of Southern Reach who goes by the name Control.
What I found striking about this book, compared to the first one, is just how different the settings were: Area X's pristine wilderness to Southern Reach's suffocating, decaying offices, both inimicalable to human life.It [naturey area near a town] wasn't true wilderness, was comfortingly close to civilization, but existed just enough apart to create a boundary.
And further down the rabbit hole we go...After the surreal narration of the first book, I did wonder what VanderMeer had in stock for us.
There are other contrasting aspects too: instead of a first person narrative, we are met by a third person one; cast have names, not just appellations; we even get background stories for some of them; and all this takes place in ordinary offices.
Meetings, interviews, dealing with a new boss/team, office politics, etc.
- all this is so familiar, and yet, the feeling that something is extremely wrong grows on you, making you doubt and distrust everything.
Parallels between the two books exist too, when you look.
Authority picks up a few months after the disastrous events of Annihilation and the biologist is in the custody of Southern Reach after being found standing in an empty parking lot after returning from Area X’s twelfth expedition.
As soon as he arrives at Southern Reach he encounters pushback from the Assistant Director, who fervently believes the Director is still alive, a scientist named Whitby that may or may not be hiding something, and of course, the biologist, who gives cryptic answers to his questions and seems intent on stonewalling him.
Control slowly uncovers pieces of the puzzle and along the way fills in a great deal more of the background and the world that Southern Reach lies in.I loved this book…I love how different from book one it is.
The shadows of the abyss are like the petals of a monstrous flower that shall blossom within the skull and expand the mind beyond what any man can bear …”““Is your house in order?” the Voice asked.
Even as Control said it, he had known that he was also telling her he didn’t mind leaving her there, alone, on the other side.”Amazing writing…amazing author…and a fabulous series not to be missed.
Like its predecessor, Authority is a surreal, immersive and compelling read.
In it we glimpse, the inner workings of the Southern Reach, the agency tasked with understanding and containing Area X.
The title suggests someone is in control of the Reach.
A better title would be Disintegration, as the agency, its staff and newly arrived Director John Rodriquez, who ironically calls himself Control, are collapsing.
Is Area X reaching out to ensnare the Reach or are those tasked with studying it so lost in its mystique they are drawing it across the border?
Can’t wait to read the conclusion.
This book was frustrating to read. I did not find Control as intriguing a viewpoint character as the biologist, and he spent the vast majority of this book running from place to place not finding any answers. There were occasional moments that were engaging, such as Control's interviews with "the biologist", and much of the last quarter of the book. I still think that Vandermeer's writing is fantastic, and the creepy moments in the book are genuinely creepy, I just wish that the book had spent less time treading water without actually going anywhere.
2.5*, 3* ?What a mess.This book is so boring and slow and uninteresting.I just kept reading it because I loved the first one, Annihilation.The ending is exciting and now I want to read the third and final book in the series.But the truth is: My expectations are really really low.
