https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/94319.Ark_Angel
Ark Angel (Alex Rider, #6), Anthony HorowitzArk Angel is the sixth book in the Alex Rider series written by British author Anthony Horowitz.
The novel is a spy thriller which follows the attempt by the title character, Alex Rider, to foil a plot of a Russian billionaire.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: دهم ماه مارس سال 2011 میلادیعنوان: آرک انجل (اینجل)؛ نویسنده: آنتونی هوروویتس؛ مترجم: مهدی قراچه داغی؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ایرانبان، 1388، در 295 ص، شابک: 9789642980789؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان انگلیسی قرن 21 مآلکس رایدر، چهارده ساله، جاسوس همیشه ناراضی...
درگیر خطرناک‌ترین جدال خود شده است.
ژنرال روسی «زاروف» در یک جزیره شخصی نزدیک کوبا، سرگرم برنامه‌ ریزی انفجاری برای بازسازی تاریخ است.
Plot:  This story picks up after the events of the previous book where Alex is now in hospital after surviving an attack where he was almost killed by an assassin.
I would like to see Alex have some friends to actually stay in his life and not leave him because with him only being 14 years old, i feel like he could use some friends to help him through everything that he's being through and not just up and leave him.
Alex however is really reluctant to join this mission and actually wanting to leave this life behind however he finally accepts and moves forward with helping the CIA.
Especially the fight at the end, absolute gold!3- Scorpia Rising: The last book in the series is one of the best.
A classic.4- Scorpia: A very good book, although slightly overrated.
Skeleton Key is an entertaining read, but somehow the plot just becomes rather unrealistic and Snakehead was good fun, but it lacked a glue that previous stories had.9- Crocodile Tears: Probably the most disappointing entry into the Alex Rider series.
Although it has its good moments, such as Alex winning the poker game and the car veering off a cliff, the book seems rather strange and the plot sometimes seems a bit ridiculous.
Very good series so far. Very interesting and action filled. Highly recommend to anyone who likes action.
Engaging, Emotional & Brilliant Action!
I mean, I knew Alex Rider was courageous and very, very reckless, but to actually borrow someone’s identity in order to save said person from being kidnapped?That’s more than brave.
Not many people would do what Alex Rider did, or am I wrong?So of course, he is rewarded for his actions, especially since he could have died (though that’s not news).
And Alex, modest as ever, wants nothing in return.
Alex and MI6 are a team again, though it will take time before he can forget what happened in the previous sequels.
I want Alex to grow up physically too, not just mentally.
In short order, he's disabled 4 men and then is kidnapped by a 5th while Alex is trying to prevent the kidnapping of the patient in the room next to him.
All this in approximately 300 pages.Sending a freaking kid into outer space with a few injections and some brief instructions was a bit much...And the terrorists at the beginning figure that locking Alex into an old building and setting it on fie from the basement is th ebest way to kill him...but still one guy disobeys orders to stay in a freakin' BURNING BUILDING just to fire a few bullets at Alex for personal revenge...which Alex somehow dodges by leaping backwards...
He was recruited into the MI6 British secret intelligence; they are sort of like CIA but a British version.
The story seems to sort of have 2 different stories to it but it is still one story.
My favorite part of the book was the ending when he has about 25 seconds to get into the escape pod in Ark Angel, which is supposed to be the first hotel space satiation in space for tourist.
This book so far in the series is my favorite and met past my expectations.
What made me read this book was title sounded cool.
I recomened you read it.
Super fun. Poor Alex can't catch a break, but the escapes get more crazy with every book!
This book is really good, I like how the CIA keeps getting alex to come back and do one more job for them.
This one was action packed and full of suspense and mystery. THUMBS UP!
However I have to say that in the end i did enjoy it despite the predictable plot.
Alex Rider was as always a fun character to read about, especially the way he seems to get out of absolutely any situation.***** SPOILERS AHEAD *****The parts of the plot that were most predictable were the fact that Tamara was with the CIA.
I really don't know what else to say about this other than the fact that I really want read the next book so i can get to the last one...
I'd have given this 2.5 stars if possible, but I have rounded it up to three to be nice.
I enjoyed the use of an MRI machine to take out a bad guy, learning the secret behind tightrope walking, and the diving and space scenes.
I didn't like how extremely unrealistic this series is becoming, the use of yet another rich, crazy villain and the rushed ending.
I thought the book would end with a cliffhanger, with the main action happening in the next book, but in the end the author rushed the scenes in the space station and the novel came to an abrupt halt.
i liked it
It doesn't quite get five stars (actual rating is proooobably 4.5?) because the first 3/4 or so of the book isn't very exceptional.
Still really, really good, of course!
But OH MY GOODNESS, THAT LAST SECTION.
So much epic.
So much epic.
EEEEEEEEEK!!!!!The following is a big spoiler, so be ye warned: (view spoiler)[ALEX WENT TO SPACE.
HE EXPERIENCED ZERO GRAVITY AND FLOATED AROUND IN A SPACE STATION AND GOT TO SEE EARTH THROUGH ONE OF THE WINDOWS AND I'M FREAKING OUT BECAUSE IT WAS AWESOME AND ALEX IS EPIC AND...
(hide spoiler)]I love Alex Rider.
I just love it - him - SO MUCH.
so.........I DID NOT LIKE IT!!!!I mean seriously were you high while writing cuz you sent him to space!!!(cheesiest pun of the year)the book was badNo backstory NO titleand no hashI mean stashof.......beedsrry i wanted to say weedseed?creed?assasins creed?
I liked the book because it has the right amount of action and it still follows the same events of the previous books. I would recommend this book to people who like action and like adventure books. I read this book after reading the previous 5 books if I didn't read the previous books I would not know what is happening. This book is similar to all the other books in the series and its very easy to under stand if you read the series.
The book was ok. Through the story, there were moments words would describe the experience so well that I would feel what the person is experiencing. The characters were memorable but not too many stuck out besides the protagonist. The Story is compelling and has dramatic events in it, but it ends too quickly towards the end and does not tie the knot well. You could relate to a couple of the characters, but they are specific.
It was a good book, but it was also unrealistic. A fourteen year old boy going to outer space to save the world doesn't seem like it would ever happen. But it was still really good.
Rating: 3.5*
What a crazy ride! This one has a very convoluted plot and lots of action and intensity; it almost feels like a video game!
It was a funny and exciting book that kept me on the edge of my seat through the whole book.
I Love Alex Rider!!! This book was soo good!
I loved this book! With plot twists and extreme descriptive detail, it was hard to stop reading.
It was dangerous of Alex to steal an identity to save one. That was his first mistake. I can not see why of this title.
I liked this book even though there are some parts in the plot that tend to be boring.
The author was able to let me imagine the various settings that take part in the story and I even portrayed Alex as the guy that acts in the actual movie that was released years ago.
The conflict in the book has a slight sprinkle of fantasy, but as always, the hero of the plot gets to find a way out.
It is a pretty interesting book and has a plus, which is that it is one of the extended series of Alex Rider books.
It is something to do with the space, like in outer space.
Great book! One of the best books in the series, So far its my favorite book in the Alex Rider series.
So last week my granddaughter comes home from 5th grade and says "I got you a book from my school library".
After my comments left on blogs last week about reading a series in order, my cheeks got pink to start in the middle of this series, but not being a prepubescent boy, I had never heard of Alex Rider.
I was intrigued by the premise and since this was new to me, I may look for other Alex Rider books to read and discuss with GD2.
Over the summer, I read the book Ark Angel by Anthony Horowitz. This book, in my opinion, is it is superb. I think out of all the other books in the series, this one has been my favorite one not only because of the action but all your questions you may have had in the beginning of the book would surely be answered later on. Alex Rider is a 14 year-old boy who lives in London and is a spy for MI6. He recently was targeted by Scorpia for dismantling there organization. In the book Ark Angel, Alex
In the book Ark Angel, Alex Rider is suffering from a bullet wound that came centimeters away from puncturing his heart.
In recognition for not letting Force Three kidnap his son, Nikolei invites Alex to live with him and Paul for a week.
He makes it seem as if earth were alive just because there are six billion people concentrated there building, learning, and grasping on what earth was created for.If you want a more action packed thriller book, I do not know where you would find one but good luck trying.
