https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/386621.Dead_Irish
Odličan serijal popularnog američkog autora... Kod nas je prevedena samo jedna njegova knjiga... upravo ova "Irska smrt"... Da li zato što se radnja dešava u mom omiljenom američkom gradu, San Francisku, da li zbog žanra i likova... kako god, odličan pisac, našim čitaocima uglavnom nepoznat... Ako volite Grišama, Patersona dopašće vam se i ovaj pisac... Nadam se... :)
A slow start before interest picks up in this twisty whodunit. 7 of 10 stars
Solid story, great characters with a twist I didn't see coming. This is a classic 'whodunnit' book featuring an ex cop/ex lawyer/ex marine/current bartender with a tragic back story. All too often these type of books only focus on the police work and don't focus on the personality and background of the characters. That isn't the case with Dead Irish. I'd liken it to Michael Connollys excellent Harry Bosch series in that regard.
Dismas ‘Diz’ Hardy, ex-copy, ex-lawyer, and ex-husband is presently a bartender.
His hesitancy is related to his inability to stay away from obligations and remain as uninvolved with others as possible except on a shallow level.Unfortunately, I am not good at guessing the ‘bad guy’ until it is obvious and the author lets the reader know.
Nice writing on the part of Lescroart who gave the characters depth and made the reader care about them.
This is what I enjoy most about the writing of authors; an excellent description of the scene.
I really wanted to like this book more as it had a good main character, lots of interesting side characters and great dialogue in places.
Dismas Hardy is a former cop and lawyer, who is asked to help his current boss and friend, Moses, find out if his brother-in law took his own life or was murdered which is a good premise.
Sadly, I just found it such a slow read!
I can often read three books in that time.
If an author’s writing style resonates with me I can even read one in a few hours!
I read one in this series out of order (I won't admit to which one). It was a solid read, enough where I picked up both Dead Irish and The Vig, where they've been sitting on my shelves collecting dust. I make lapses in judgement like that all the time. Putting off reading a great author for no sensible reason.I'm breaking out The Vig next.
3.5 stars because of a slow start.....with a great finish. It seemed to take a long time for me to get oriented amongst all the players in this mystery. Two-thirds through, I couldn't put it down. I'm hoping many characters introduced will reappear in later books in the series. Dismas is an appealing and complex protagonist.
It sounded really good, so I checked up on it, wanting to make sure that it wasn't part of a series.
It's the first in the series, and a few reviews postes, especially the one that I found helpful, had me wondering if I should give this one a shot.
Sure, one review complained that you don't get the 'shattering personal loss' until midway through the book, but it didn't bother me as much.
You truly get a sense of self out of him, how he felt when the 'shattering personal loss' hit him, how it affected him, why he is today the way he is, and wondering how his life is changing now.
So recently, while trolling on GR (because really, isn't that what we all spend our free time doing?) I discovered that the book I started with was not the beginning of the series!
For anyone who suffers from the same disease I do (URBOO - unable to read books out of order) this is a major development.So here I am, 17 years later, starting at the beginning.
Dead Irish was a fairly decent read although I must say that if I'd started with this one I might not have kept going -- Lescroart's voice had definitely improved by the time I picked up the series 4 books later.
Lescroart focuses more on the detective footwork than the legal aspect and it gives us a peek into the life of a private eye (even though Dismas Hardy technically isn't one.) It takes a long time to gather evidence and come up with a solid case and this is portrayed rather realistically and serves as both an advantage and a hindrance to the book.
I was actually bored with this one up to this point but it does redeem itself and thankfully comes together as the book goes along.
The same goes for many female characters i.e. gold-diggers, stunning knockout beauties, overly emotional.
Dismas is a former cop, former attorney, now divorced bartender, who is drawn back to investigating the apparent suicide of Eddie Cochran, his friend's brother-in-law.
Dismas works hard to convince the police that the case is a homicide, and along the way we learn of the web of secrets involved in all aspects of the case from a botched drug deal by Eddie's boss, the politics of the police precinct causing the detectives to just want it to be a suicide, and the tangled lives of Eddie's friends and family, all leading to more deaths.
The first is Dead Irish which, from what I can tell, is the first with characters Dismas Hardy - a cop turned lawyer turned bar tender (amen!) and Abe Glitsky - cop.These characters seemed to pop up every time I tried to read Lescroart (though I never finished his books) and so I thought I would go back to the beginning.Dead Irish was not very action packed and the story was not captivating.
I will give the author a pass since the book was written in 1989 toward the beginning of what looks like a healthy writing career.
San Francisco bartender Dismas Hardy was briefly a patrol officer in the SFPD while he worked toward a law degree.
Dismas believes otherwise, and he sets out to find the truth.The joy of San Francisco noirTo access police resources, Dismas turns to his former partner, now Detective Sergeant Abe Glitsky.
His investigation leads him into the dark corners of San Francisco society and triggers additional murders.
The book is a joy to read.About the authorJohn Lescroart has been writing crime novels for nearly 30 years.
This was the first of 15 books to date featuring former San Francisco cop and attorney Dismas Hardy.
I took an immediate liking to him.The plot was an intriguing one, and I think Lescroart did an excellent job on the build-up.
I didn't really "buy it." I'll try to say this without any spoilers here (for those who like me have not read Lescroart yet).
I just know the ending was a bit of a let down for me.There were also a couple of occasions where Lescroart's choice of dialogue was a bit offensive to me as a reader.
Not having read a Hardy book before, I didn't have an idea in my mind what he should sound like, but I do think Colacci did a great job of bringing Hardy to life.
Add to that the constantly shifting points of view that seem to be completly arbitrary and you get a book that lacks a great deal of focus.
The main character is likeable enough but appears in little over half the books.
New characters and viewpoints are still being introduced in the last few pages.The mystery itself is not that interesting.
The lack of focus, overabundence of characters and useless tangents make it needlessly complicated.
Which is a shame because the one thing that could have been very interesting was that motive if it had been treated much less superficially.
This was a great Who done it mystery. This is the second Dismas Hardy book I’ve read. (I started out of order) The characters were real, and I just felt for Hardy and his ex wife. I like Hardy’s character, he’s a guy who wanted to find out who killed his friend. This book kept me guessing and I only caught on toward the end who the murderer was. The ending to this book was perfect. Great mystery, highly recommend.
Enjoyable without being especially memorable.
3.5 starts for book one of the series.
The usual good stuff from Lescroat...having read a number of his San Francisco series, I decided to go back to the 1st Dismas Hardy...aside from his anti-Catholicism, I generally enjoy his reads...the usual characters emerge in this tale of Hardy trying to, prove a suicide is really a murder...enjoyable with qualification!
Erste Gehversuche mit bezeichnenden SchwächenAller Anfang ist schwer, aber dass sich der erste Teil der Glitzky-Hardy-Saga als derart schwer verdaulicher Brocken erweisen würde, hat mich schon überrascht, dabei dachte ich, dass ich mit dem »Vertratuen« schon den Tiefstpunkt durchmessen hätte.Eines vorweg, die Aufklärung des Mords an Eddie Cochran war nicht das Motiv, mir diesen Erstling bis zum bitteren Ende reinzuziehen, zumal es jemand unbemerkt geschafft hat einen Spoiler in die Krimi-Couch-Kommentare zu das Urteil reinzuschmuggeln.Die Hauptattraktion war eher das erste Auftreten der Serienhelden Diz Hardy und Abe Glitzky, die hier noch keineswegs die guten Freunde späterer Folgen sind, dafür geben die Beschreibungen beim ersten Auftreten viel her, war beim Lesen der späteren Folgen nie auf die Idee gekommen, dass Hardy ziemlich kahl sein könnte, auch die Tatsache, dass er seine Ex mal schnell im Hinterhof eines Restaurants nagelt, schien mir unvorstellbar.Da sich Lescroart Janes Beschreibung in späteren Folgen gespart hat, musste ich mich während der Lektüre des Erstlings erst einmal umstellen, dafür steht nach Der Deal unzweifelhaft fest, dass alle attraktiven Frauen in seinen Romanen ca.
You could put your hope in anything you wanted, he figured, but to put it in hope itself was just pure foolishness.” How he got to this point is but one of many threads designed to hold the reader's interest.Author John Lescroat specializes in creating a network of interrelated characters that almost overshadow the plot.
One prominent character is Abe Glitsky, Hardy's ex-partner on the police force.
The gist of the plot is that Hardy's close friend and boss Mose McGuire's brother-in-law Eddie Cochran is found shot to death.
A Goodreads member highly recommended John Lescroart as legal thriller author and because my partner has pretty much read all of John Grisham's books, I was looking for a replacement.
The Lescroart recommendation was very strong and the main character of this series sounded intriguing so I decided to give it a try and start at the beginning.Initially this book didn't really grab me.
Looks like Lescroart turns out to be a good a Grisham alternative.
No I didn't guess the murderer until the very end !
A solid and very entertaining read, "Dead Irish" by John Lescroart delivered in the clutch.
Having never read anything from Lescroart before I finally listened to my mother who's been telling me for years to start reading.
"Dead Irish" is the first in a series with the protagonist Dismas Hardy.
Yes, 5 stars out of 5 for "Dead Irish" by John Lescroart.
! Sometimes you just have to listen to your mother.For sure looking to start into another Lescroart to get into.
This was my introduction to Dismas Hardy; ex-marine, ex-lawyer, ex-cop, ex-husband, ex-Catholic, newly minted bartender, darts afficionado and all around pretty nice guy.
Dismas is working for Moses McGuire in the tavern and when Eddie Cochrane shows up dead, seemingly a suicide, Moses asks him to investigate for his sister-in-law.
Since he has no current credentials, he depends on his former partner, Sgt Abe Glitsky to provide information and that seems to work pretty well as it turns out Glitsky needs him as well.
After many wrong turns, the mystery comes to an inevitable and shattering conclusion.I enjoyed meeting the characters and look forward to getting to know them better in future books.
DEAD IRISH (Pol. Proc/Ama. Sleuth- San Francisco-Cont) – G+Lescroart, John – 1st in seriesSignet, 2005 – PaperbackDismas Hardy is a Viet Nam vet, former cop, and former attorney who works in a bar.
Abe Glitsky is a homicide cop and Hardy's former partner.
Glitsky and Hardy disagree and work to find the killer.***It's always good to read the first book of a series as it lays the groundwork for the characters and their relationships.
This book did a very good job of creating the defining the principal characters by making them interesting enough that I want to read more about them.
3.0 out of 5 stars Dead Irish, June 4, 2014 This review is from: Dead Irish (Dismas Hardy) This was a new series to me so I may have been expecting a little more that I received.Dismas Hardy was a police officer trying to start over as a bartender. Just as he was attempting to get away from the crime scene he learns of Eddie Cochran's sudden death. Now it seems the old life of crime solving has intruded into his new life.I found some parts quite interesting.
This was a really good one! Lots of suspense toward the end in a race to save the next victim. Nice to see where the characters got their origins. You will no doubt pick up a slip that gives you a huge clue who the murderer is, but don't dispair, because I believe it is intended for you realize. Although you want to scream at the detectives and Dismas for not picking up on it sooner. It doesn't diminish the suspense.
This started out slow but it was laying the foundation for a very exciting finish to the book. I loved the setting, San Francisco. Dismas Hardy is a very interesting character and I think I would like to get to know him better. There are more books to the series and it seems that this may be the type that you can pick up from time to time and enjoy.
A very solid debut of a very human hero who is more than likable; he is actually believable. Lescroart is spot on about one thing, which I agree with very much. If they made a movie out of this series, and they should, Dennis Quaid would make a perfect Dismas Hardy.
Really enjoyed this 1st in the Dismas Hardy series, agree with other comments re this book doing a very good job of getting to know principal characters, I like the authors style and will be checking out the other books in the series..
