https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82333.The_Satanic_Bible
To me as a kid he was, "that old guy who only wore black leather, drove a black Jaguar, and lived in a big, black house with an equally big fence in front of it." Can't say I ever recall seeing him talk to anyone, though my mother would occasionally chat with his daughter and his girlfriend at the corner store.
After he died, his house remained untouched for a few years, but was eventually torn down—which was a real shame, especially since that building was allegedly an old speakeasy.
I'm also pretty sure that either the building directly adjacent to his, or one or two houses away, had a beauty parlor on the first floor and a brothel on the top floor.
Before my Christian friends freak out about this one, they should know that "Satanism" is not the same as "Satan Worship", and that the former is actually an atheistic philosophy (albeit a very theatrical and confrontational one), as opposed to the latter which is a religion.No Satanist actually believes in heaven or hell, good or evil, God or the Devil.
Satanists believe that religion has turned mankind into passive sheep, and seek to undo the "damage" they feel religion has caused.Satanism is, I feel, Nietzsche's philosophy filtered through a lesser mind.
For my 666th review I couldn't think of a more appropriate book than The Satanic Bible!I bought this about 25 years ago and just now got around to reading it.
Or just getting me laid would be cool...I expected sex, blood, magic, horror, demons, and more sex and way more magic.Then I read it and what I got was more like...(Just to the left of the clock I believe is George Bush #2 and that's pretty satanic in and of itself.)Honestly, this book is just not as exciting as I'd hoped.
+ =
De-Mystifies All Shock Value So, I read this when I was about fifteen and liked to see the looks on people's faces when they saw me reading it. Look at that big inverted pentacle. OoooOOOooooh. It wasn't completely without merit as I then went out and read its even more tired sister book The Satanic Witch, but the fact that I was reading a book called The Satanic Bible - and pissing off people around me as I read it on public transport - was worth far more to me than anything I was actually rea
It claims pheromones are magic, acting sexy is magic, 'psychodrama' is magic, and that any kind of big satanic ritual thing has power if the people involved are getting off on it - but that's where it begins and ends.
Meh. If you're a teenager in the suburbs then by all means consider having this on your bookshelf to shock & annoy, but for the intellectually curious there are better books you could read on just about any topic this touches on: philosophy, sociology, psychology, the history of the occult, magic, Christ - even read Marilyn Manson's autobiography if you have to.This book is the textual equivalent of those 1950s B-movie posters that promised so much and delivered so little.
So my current impression of Satanism is that it is selfish atheism.
then Satanism is a bunch of lame, and I totally called it.
But you know, most atheists are dicks any way, quoting Dawkins and Harris and smugly referencing the flying spaghetti monster.
I'd love it if everyone could jump off their collective pedestal and sit criss- cross- apple- sauce on the ground and just chill the fuck out.Anyway!
I'm not angry!
People think I'm angry when I say "fuck" repeatedly, in typing, but for fucking real, it just flows from me naturally and without anger.
Needlessly blunt, socially irresponsible, poorly written. The work of a person who knows nothing about human nature and assumes man's greatest evil is receiving handjobs from a peepshow tent girl. Anybody who needs a book to tell them that it is within their power to do a ton of drugs, have sex with whomever they choose and have cake for dinner will not go far in life.
All religion is theatre and self-deceit, so why not have fun with it? Those who take this book literally (And LaVey's brand of Satanism) miss the point entirely.
The idea of worshipping Satan, even in the symbolic way that Lavey was into, seems completely retarded to me.
The "Enochian Keys" section of the book, which is close to half of it, is a waste.
More Lavey showmanship than anything else.
All these negatives however are overrided by the great observations on Christianity and all the guilt ridden pathologies it causes.
But whats good in the Satanic Bible is so great that it overrides the stupidity and showmanship/con game he was playing.
Overall this was a fun book to read that contained some real gems of truth.
I found this in a charity shop many years ago, a little book that fits nicely in your pocket, I didn't steal it cos I wasn't evil then as I hadn't purchased this book, duh!
His essays are entertaining, maybe not the best writing style but good enough that I instantly read the book two more times after reading it and also purchased his other essays from WHSmiths, who had to order them in, this was all before I was on the Internets.The downside to the book was the magic and rituals, sure a naked lady alter appeals to me but the rest?
I feel the need to explain myself on this one.
The book is more philosophy than religion, with self indulgence at the core.
I have seen some of LaVey's terms, like "emotional vampires", in fairly common usage lately, which goes along with my thoughts that he has some valid points in his arguments.
Unfortunately, those valid points are overshadowed by gobbeldygook (yes, that's the technical term).
I also couldn't give too much attention to a theory that tries really hard to become the antithesis of one religion, thereby effectively confirming those characters existed.
This book is most definitely worked through grammar- and language wise, and the british-flavoured language of Anton LaVey makes for dynamic reading, descriptive metaphors and some great additions to my english vocabulary.
Epistemology, psychology, sociology and the ''spiritual awakening'' oft-times mentioned in these chapters of radical, anti-right hand path philosophy.
I would also recommend not giving in to the prejudices which this branch of philosophy is often met with, and keeping an open mind.Anton LaVey included The Enochian Keys in The Satanic Bible and verses from Ragnar Redbeard's ''Might Is Right'' (1896).
So whereas Jesus says "Turn the other cheek" LaVey says, "If a man smite you on the cheek, smite him twice as hard on the other." LaVey obviously never bothered to consult any standard commentaries on that verse, showing his rather ubiquitous ignorance of all things Christian.LaVey holds to some kind of ethical egoism.
Sure it is nice to have your friend around and to collect on the 1,000, but an altruistic act is done solely for the sake of the other; even though there might very well be side effects and outcomes that are good for you, personally.)Of course egoists like LaVey try to make altruistic acts ft within their moral philosophy.
The next, and thus far longest-lived, introduction was written by Priest Burton Wolfe, a pop-culture journalist who indulged a brief flirtation with the Church of Satan but never really regarded it as more than a hobby.
The third version was written some years after LaVey’s death by Magus Peter Gilmore, who ascended after the brief succession struggle to become the new High Priest of the Church of Satan.
I wound up going a different direction for my induction into the esoteric, however, and shortly thereafter chose Discordianism as my chief paradigm.Years later I was ready for a revaluation of values, and the time had come to consider what LaVey's project had offered historically.
I read this before electricity was invented so it's not exactly fresh in my mind but the most interesting thing I remember is that the author went on to sell used cars and eventually declared bankruptcy. First class charlatan. The book is basically a promotion of self-indulgence. Not much more than that from what I recall. A disappointing read if you're looking to be shocked and a hollow read if you're seeking deep philosophical insight. Still glad I read it. It helped launch my interest in philosophy at the time along with Mere Christianity.
This was a fun read and not at all what I expected, but it did freak out my Christian brother when he saw it on my bookshelf.Just do the opposite of what the Christian Bible says and you can be a Satanist!LaVey was sometimes little more than a barking carny playing monster music on a Wurlitzer.
Such a time-sensitive rating. Ten years ago I would've lavished this book with idealistic praise and five stars. Also, I can't believe that I actually read this, then again I used to don a pentagram necklace and wear dresses to school, so ...
I think that The Satanic Bible is a great book, providing a much needed better understanding of Satanism. LaVey's knowledge and wisdom are very inspiring and have helped me put into a newer perspective all of the religious lessons that I learned about when I was younger. My only regret is that so many others will fail to read this book due to it's title and will continue to believe in only the tarnished viewpoints of those from other religions. Finally a book comes along that promotes a philosophy based on reason and independent thought.
Ahh highschool. I can still smell the faux poetry and mascara from here. Thank the Flying Pasta that acne finally cleared up. If you wonder what happens when the dionysian culture bomb of Crowley gets codified into a handy, and not at all subversive, book - well now you know. I'd rank this somewhere below a L. Ron Hubbard and a Jack Chick tract in terms of worth. Listen kids, skip this trite, just read a SubGenius and get some slack.Also hugs, not drugs.
I would not recommend this for someone who is trying to discover themselves, but if anyone wants to learn what Philosophical Satanism actually is, ignore the Christian propaganda and read it from the words of the -Devil- himself.Negatives:The 11 Satanic Statements leads the reader into believing that may in fact be Satanists, when in actually they are common sense "rules" that most would claim them.Here they are, with my commentary: 1.
I am certain this is figurative, but perhaps handing someone their ass will prevent them from acting like an ass in the future...No demons, devils, Satan, Hell or any other bullshit.
Not what you might think based on the title and the names of some of the chapters.
Those are given specifically for shock value.
Go into this book with an open mind and it will serve you well.
I would actually suggest it as a self help book.
It is straight forward, easy to follow and in your face honest.
Be it good or bad, you are who you are.
I loved this book and recommend it to EVERYONE!
All good lessons to be learned by everyone.
Especially hypocritical religious fanatics who think that there shit don't stink.
READ IT, LIVE IT, LOVE IT.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9FE74...
Personal emotions should never enter into the punishment of criminals.
The compassionate emotions will always thrive in the mind until you have fulfilled what you feel is an obligation to help that person in the natural manner.
I say it takes far more courage to not resort to violence when one is physically provoked, and that turning the other cheek is a form of vengeance, as it will throw your enemy off guard and perhaps make him feel ashamed.
ცოტამ თუ იცის რომ ანტონ ლავეის სატანიზმის იდეა გამორიცხავს სამოთხის და ჯოჯოხეთის არსებობას, მისი სატანა არის ადამიანური მატერილიზმის და ჰედონიზმის სახე, ეს ბიბლია ქადაგებს იმას რომ ადამიანებმა სიამოვნებისთვის უნდა ვიცხოვროთ რადგან ერთხელ მოვდივართ, ეს არის ათეისტური ფორმა ქადაგების.
დიახ დიახ, ის ამით ქრისტიანობას უპირისპირდება, მის დისკრედიტირებას ახდენს, რადგან მათი აზრით სრულიად ალოგიკური და აზრს მოკლებულია სადღაც სამოთხის არსებობა და თეთრ წვერიანი სამყაროს შემოქმედის არსება, ან უბიწოდ ჩასახვის შესაძლებლობა.ლავეის სატანიზმი, ან სატანის ეკლესია დაარსდა 60 იანებში, როგორც ერთ-ერთი "სასაცილო მოვლენა" ამერიკის ისტორიაში, სხვათაშორის დღესაც ღიმილს იწვევს, რადგან ანტონ ლევის სატანიზმს ჰუმანიზმთან უვლებენ საერთო ხაზებს ...
უბრალოდ ლევიმ სატანა და სატანიზმი "არა ქრისტიანული გაგებით" გამოიყვანა.
You are your own, personal god.Many people would be hung up on the use of Satan as the figurehead, since he's traditionally an "evil" character.
Such a black and white view would be difficult to maintain, since everything is invariably seen from one perspective or another.The ritual part of the book reads like esoterica even though it isn't supposed to *be* esoteric.
Taking a life for a ritual would go against this core philosophy, as would forcing any sexual orientation upon a person.What drags the book down a bit is the fact that several parts are plagiarized, and then combined hurriedly to make a deadline.

This text is just shy of being complete swill, and is saved only by the fact that since it's publication it has become THE primer for Left Hand Path philosophy.
In fact, as much as I enjoyed it as a teenager, at times I find the text grating and immature; just asking to be tossed out for a much more intelligent text.Pros: It's a primer one could read before doing indepth study on the Temple of Set, Dragon Rouge, or even ONA [If they are into that:]Cons: Very immature.
Ale czy większość ludzi tak się nie zachowa?
interesuję się astonomią nie oznacza, że chcę być astronautą.LaVey ma też rację pisząc o grzechu - wiele rzeczy grzechem nie jest, a tylko jakieś błędne wpojenie ludziom tego jako grzech pokutuje nadal.I jeszcze coś:"Satanizm toleruje wszystkie rodzaje zachowań seksualnych, które należycie zaspokajają twoje indywidualne żądze - możesz być heteroseksualny, homoseksualny, biseksualny lub nawet aseksualny, jeżeli tak wybrałeś.
Myślę, że przeczytać warto, chociażby tylko Księgę Lucyfera, bo reszta to jest nudna i jak dla mnie to ta fantazja."Książka ta pokazuje, że satanizm nie jest wiarą pełną brutalności i krwi, lecz oddaniem się pokusie cielesności (...)"- to wyjaśnienie mi się podoba [za wikipedią
Keep in mind that the author was trying to make it easy to understand even for the biggest idiots.
The author was actually quite intelligible.
An interesting and amusing read; However, if you're looking for a book with any big insight or legitimate reason for anti-christianity, you might as well look elsewhere.
The ideals described in this book are just as flawed as the ideals described in Christianity.
Where Christianity may turn you into a blubbering fool with a lack of rationality, this Secular Satanism will turn you into a robot with no real emotions.
Szandor LaVey spends more time stating what Satanism is not that what it is. The book is poorly written and flogged with exclamation points. What I did shout "Amen", I mean "Satan" to is when I read the highest of all holidys is the date of one's own birth. Even if it takes a Satanist to recgonize October 3rd, so be it....
