https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/425099.Listening_Woman
I don't have much to say about this book. I don't even have an opening quote to start with.This is the third Navajo novel by Hillerman. It was an entertaining and quick read, but nothing special. Nothing really stood out for me.It seems as if MC Joe Leaphorn is going to turn out to be a good man. I like this. However, he didn't do anything particularly noteworthy in this novel.A perfectly decent if uninspiring mystery.
I have read the majority of the Tony Hillerman Navajo Mysteries (Joe Leaphorn/Jim Chee).
Hillerman combines some really good elements including murder, kidnapping, theft, religious superstitions, a vicious dog, a Navajo Catholic priest, a violent Navajo militant group, boy scouts, the FBI, a man with gold glasses, a helicopter, fire, a massive explosion, and Joe Leaphorn the detective who gets to the bottom of the case while surviving some very harrowing experiences.If you like the great American Southwest (NM, AZ, UT, CO), American Indian culture and history, compelling characters and intriguing mystery, then Hillerman provides plenty of good reading material.
A little further research and I now know that this is one of the few Hillerman mysteries featuring just Joe Leaphorn; his counterpart (and subordinate) Sgt. Jim Chee is introduced relatively early on in the series.
Listening Woman had a number of things to recommend it--good characterization, evocative descriptions of the harsh and beautiful landscape of the Navajo Reservation where the book takes place, and snappy pacing.
About mid-way through the novel, Leaphorn visits a Navajo clan during a Kinaalda--a sacred coming of age ceremony for a Navajo woman.
Tony Hillerman, RIP Sir, and thank you for your military service and your wonderful stories.
I am quite sure I read this one eons ago, as it sounded familiar, however, I enjoyed it very much.
He also has other cases, a old case re monies and a helicopter, and some one has to keep an eye out on the Boy Scouts, however, he passes that case on.
Tony Hillerman books are always a "good read", and this too will be passed on for someone else to enjoy.
I have now read several of his books now and feel this one is the best one I have read.
Joe given some cold cases to solve so he will not be babysitting a bunch of boy scouts meetimg on Navajo land.
Included are a missing helicopter, take of am important individual, deaths of 2 Navajos and the man that tried to run over Joe. It takes place entirely on Navajo reservation so a lot of the Navajo way of life is explain.
Joe's priority is the man.
He finds the car and the driver and large dog are missing.
On the way there are some twists and turns.
Book three in the Joe Leaphorn mystery series begins with Listening Woman trying to perform a cleansing / healing ritual for Hosteen Tso, an old man who refuses to divulge all he knows.
About six months later, Joe Leaphorn is nearly run off the road by a mystery man with a large dog in his car, there are reports of missing Boy Scouts, and people have reported seeing a helicopter (or helicopters) in the area.
Once Leaphorn got caught up in the chase, however, I was fully engaged and fairly flew through the second half of the book.
Tony Hillerman's third Navajo thriller written in 1978, "Listening Woman" is a true classic.
Hillerman has such wonderful characters to read.
His characters come alive off the pages full of life and depth.
""Listening Woman, at a very quick 289 pages was an incredible thriller.
With each page it's seems to transport the reader to Canyon de Chelly, or along the Arizona/ Utah border.
At times it's feels like the story is being read within a hogan from the mouth of a Navajo.
If you haven't read any of tony Hillerman's books as of yet, why not ?
There is the usual slice of Dinee lifeways (e.g., “Listening Woman’s” diagnostic practices used to determine the appropriate “sing” to cure an illness; the use of Kinaaldá, a girl’s puberty ceremony, as the backdrop for some serious sleuthing), but the author seems also to be trying his hand at a high action thriller, which takes over the narrative for the final third.
Writing in the aftermath of the Wounded Knee Standoff of 1973, Hillerman makes his Buffalo Society an offshoot of the American Indian Movement, but more akin, perhaps, to ISIS or the Taliban.
Most books succeed in a single purpose; Tony Hillerman managed to write gripping whodunits that snuck a minicourse in anthropology in when you weren't looking. That makes them among my favorites. Check my full review: Listening Woman
Another fine Tony Hillerman novel. Mixing Navajo patrolman Joe Leaphorn with domestic terrorists, kidnapping and armored car robbery. this one is a winner. Fun read
One of my favorite Hillerman references that links real life to his fictional world is Joe Leaphorn's grandfather, called Hosteen Klee-Thlumie by Shorty McGinnis of the fictional Short Hills trading post in the western Big Rez. McGinnis also refers to Hosteen Klee as "horse kicker."Those of you who have visited the Newcomb and Two Grey Hills trading posts in New Mexico, near the Toadlena school (off Highway 666, renamed in recent years as NM 491 to appease superstitious Revelationists), know the fame of Hosteen Klah and his family.
The Listening Woman, Margaret Cigaret, is a shaman who talks to those who need healing, meditates and then prescribes a Sing or Way to help cure them.
Luckily the killer didn't see Margaret and given that she was meditating (and is blind) she was unable to provide any help to the police.
Book 2's mystery was a little too simple.
I would have preferred a more consistent writing style and, if need be, a longer book to fully flesh out those scenes.
Even considering my issues with the writing, I would still recommend this series to anyone who enjoys mysteries or Native American literature.
There are few things as satisfying as looking into the methodical mind of Detective Joe Leaphorn.
While many people read Tony Hillerman for his insights into Navajo culture, I most enjoy his depiction of the always thoughtful Leaphorn.
In Listening Woman, Leaphorn faces his usual inter-tangled mess of events: being nearly run over by a maniac, the theft of a helicopter, and two unsolved deaths in a remote corner of the reservation.
The joy of this book is its window into Leaphorn's mind as he tries to make sense of seemingly random events.
Listening Woman features a remarkable and intense closing sequence—one of Hillerman's best and I heartily recommend it.
But Lieutenant Joe Leaphorn of the Navajo Tribal Police is sure the monster who savagely slaughtered an old man and a teenage girl was human.
The solution to a horrific crime is buried somewhere in a dead man's secrets and in the shocking events of a hundred years past.
To ignore the warnings of a venerable seer, however, might be reckless foolishness when Leaphorn's investigation leads him farther away from the comprehensible…and closer to the most brutally violent confrontation of his career.Paul and I listened to this on our way over to Farminington, NM.
***1/2 A fine early Leaphorn novel involving a bank robbery, two murders and the aims of a radical offshoot of the American Indian Movement who want to exact revenge on whites for an obscure massacre that occured in Texas in the 19th Century.
Well paced, but lacks the character exploration of the Navajo police that Hillerman gives us in later novels in this series.
The villians's backstories are engrossing, and the action scenes, especially the claustrophobic forced spelunking that Leaphorn is forced into, are believable and effective.
PEOPLE OF THE DARKNESS remains my favorite Hillerman novel; THE BLESSING WAY is my least favorite (Leaphorn as Navajo MacGyver).
Tony Hillerman's experience as a newspaperman shows through in his work and the Listening Woman is no exception.
Hillerman takes you not only into an interesting criminal investigation with lots of plot twists, dead ends and surprised, but he also takes you deep into Navajo culture and traditions which adds to the richness of the overall experience.
This book was third in the Navajo series, and I recommend you start with the first one and work you way through, as they build on one another.
Listening Woman adds nicely to the first two in the series and takes it forward to another level.
Another good entry into a fascinating series. I really enjoy the beautiful descriptions of Navajo country. The plot is very involved and includes a lot of Navajo lore. Lt. Joe Leaphorn gets into seemingly impossible situations but manages to escape time and time again. Great series! Four (4) stars.
I like partners for the fact that we get to know the characters better with their interactions rather than just living with one point of view. Leaphorn needed a partner. I liked the Begay boy from the beginning.
I always like Tony Hillerman. I live in Arizona and have been around Navajo people all of my life so that makes the storys even sweeter. By reading books by Tony Hillerman I have learned a little about the Navajo way of life. I have visted the resrevation and the people are delightful.
This was more interesting for the exposure to Dine (Navajo) philosophy and thought processes than for the mystery.
The mystery was written in 1978, a decade when there were quite a few political kidnappings and related crimes.
Leaphorn with his respect for order and rational thought gets caught up in it when he tries to figure out why an old Dine man has been murdered, along with a girl that basically was at the wrong place at the wrong time.
I'm not sure that this would hold up to the test of time unless the reader knew the philosophy behind the political kidnappings, it was revenge for old wrongs but also a sure way to get publicity for your cause.
I enjoy this series.
I'm giving this one only three stars is due to my own personal preferences - the story ends up in survival/thriller territory, where the character has been badly injured, hasn't had food, there are hostages etc., and that has always made for stressful & unenjoyable reading for me.
what I really enjoy about this series is the familiarity of the characters, descriptions of nature...
however, again, that's purely personal preference and as an early entry in the series, I suspect this was an opportunity for Hillerman to try new things and explore how far he can push his characters.
Hillerman writes a delightful story = have yet to find one of his books I haven't thoroughly enjoyed - I very rarely set them aside once I start one! Good to find old time favorites!
Another great storyI read this series of books quite a few years ago, and am really enjoying reading them again. Lots of interesting characters and plot twists.
I love that Leaphorn is such a calm and level-headed normal guy. He doesn’t have any super powers that save him in every sticky situation. His troubles are completely believable, and he finds realistic ways to save himself. Love the series so far.
The best part of these books is getting into Indian culture. This is my third Hillerman book - all generous gifts from a friend who lives in New Mexico - and they are fun, quick reads. But being exposed to Indian thinking and rituals and the living conditions... it’s something I’m rarely exposed too.
Listening Woman is my first.To my understanding, this story is one of a series of eighteen books referred to as the "Navajo series." They are a collection of mysteries whose protagonists are Native American Tribal Police officers who investigate crimes committed on and associated with the focus of their jurisdiction; the Navajo Reservation.A quick internet research of Hillerman revealed his accomplishments which include receiving the Mystery Writers' Guild's Edgar award.Listening Woman is a well written story that is as inventive as it is enthralling.
It proved to be the reason why I have resolved to read - at a minimum - Tony Hillerman's Navajo series to completion.
Some of the distinguishing features in this book versus his later novels, include the fact that Leaphorn is much more of an action figure, and the general plot includes physical action sequences such as a high speed chase and a life threatening struggle on foot which included scaling cliffs, surviving a brushfire, a direct confrontation with a trained killer dog, and a huge cave exploration sequence under duress that included dynamite explosions and gunfire.All the action might sound more like a Clive Cussler created Dirk Pitt action sequence, except that here, the plot is believable and is very well intermixed with the building of the mystery and the development of the opponent characters.
“Listening Woman” is the third in the series, and it was thus an early Tony Hillerman mystery.
Regardless, the story was interesting and compelling, despite a few short comings.In “Listening Woman,” Leaphorn faces a real mess of events: a group of Boy Scouts, a Catholic priest, a missing helicopter, a laughing man with gold-rimmed glasses who has tried to run Leaphorn down, a large vicious dog, a lost woman, and two strange, unsolved murders in a remote corner of the reservation.
“Listening Woman” goes away to speak with the spirits, and while she is in a trance, Tso and her assistant are murdered.
Inscription House(you need special permission to go there) is a bit south and east of the Rainbow Plateau area where a lot of this takes place, particularly the endgame.
Seems like the actual location of the hideout was in southern Utah - close to the area where the San Juan river flows into Lake Powell.
Notes...- Dog pursues man much like "No Country for Old Men"- And then some "Shibumi" cave stuff.- Seems to me the map coordinates given for the hideout are a whole degree off in latitude - the longitude seems correct.
#3 in the Leaphorn series and one of the bestLike most fans of Hillerman, I've read them all.
I'm sporadically going back through them and re-reading ones that I read more than a decade ago.I've grown used to the older Leaphorn, the one that uses his head and thinks through problems and mostly avoids the physical stuff.
This one is a younger Leaphorn that uses his head but gets involved in a lot of physical action.
. This one lays the groundwork for a lot of the future books, including introducing multiple characters and does a lot of exploration into Leaphorn's quirky sense of interested agnosticism in regards to Navajo religious beliefs.
