https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21787.The_Princess_Bride
Morganstern, was a little too dry for public consumption, as well as damaging to treasured childhood memories, so he went through it and put together this "good parts" version, and the world is a better place for it.
In his fictional childhood, Goldman learned more about the world from the process of watching the story unfold than he did from the story itself.
I'm sure a lot of this has to do with the fact that Goldman wrote the screenplay for the film, so not only is the story intact, but a great deal of the dialogue is almost verbatim from the book.
It's non-stop adventure, comedy gold and full of some of the most memorable characters I've ever had the pleasure of reading about.Goldman's writing style for this novel works so surprisingly well.
For one, it's such an unusual idea to write a retelling of a story by a fictional author - Goldman claims his father read him the S.
I think maybe it's the little kids inside most readers who remember the magic of being read a story as a child.
I want you to know how rare it is for me to find a book that successfully combines silly humour with dramatic action and adventure.
And that's how it should be, Goldman did write the screenplay.During this time, Goldman explains that the book is actually extremely boring in parts and while he was young, his father only read the "good parts." Instead he skipped the pages and pages of explanations of Florintine (the actual story taking place in the fictional Florin) ancestry, which is also explained as Morgenstern being satiric.
, the self-proclaimed genius and orchestrator of this most unstoppable team of the world's best.Yet another thing I loved about this book, Goldman's obsessed with numbers and lists.
I must say that the humour in this book is quite special.  ‘‘I must court her now,’’ said the Prince. ‘‘Leave us alone for a minute.’’ He rode the white expertly down the hill. Buttercup had never seen such a giant beast. Or such a rider. ‘‘I am your Prince and you will marry me,’’ Humperdinck said. Buttercup whispered, ‘‘I am your servant and I refuse.’’ ‘‘I am your Prince and you cannot refuse.’’ ‘‘I am your loyal servant and I just did.’’ ‘‘Refusal means death.’’ ‘‘Kill me then.’’ It’s a come
Buttercup whispered, ‘‘I am your servant and I refuse.’’
Not simply an adventure, a journey.Danger awaits the characters at every chapter and the obstacles they are faced with and their ways of dealing with them are peculiar.Even if you try to, you will not be able to take the story seriously.
One cannot write a comical story without having silly characters in it.There are many overused tropes in this fairytale: a damsel in distress, beauty beyond imagination, a rescuer, villainous villains, villainous villains who lose their villainy and the ‘‘true love’’ theme.The first half is a lot of fun.
Beauty is such an important theme in this novel it’s hard to see what else Westley may see in Buttercup.
5.0 stars.
HOW AMAZINGLY GOOD IS THIS BOOK YOU ASK?....so good it is almost This is a literary treasure and one that I can not recommend more highly.
Let me start by saying that prior to reading this book I had probably seen the movie version a dozen times or so and ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT!!
I only mention this so that you know where I'm coming from in case you are not a fan of the movie as I think if you like one you will like the other and, conversely, if you didn’t like the movie, the book may not
Let me start by saying that prior to reading this book I had probably seen the movie version a dozen times or so and ABSOLUTELY LOVE IT!!
Similarly, Mandy Patinkin as Inigo Montoya is another example of amazing casting that made the on screen version of the character even more fun than the book version.
Bottom-line, if you have enjoyed the movie but have not read the book, I strongly recommend it.
Similarly, if you have read the book and have not seen the movie, I strongly recommend that as well.
Okay, I like the movie better than the book. I mean I love watching all of my characters! So There! Anyhoo, I'm adding some pictures from the book. There are a lot of them but I'm just going to add a few. I thought they were wonderful. On the inside front and back pages there is a map but I only added one part of the map so you can get the idea =) Happy Reading! Mel ♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading List
I am one of the few people in the world who does not think the book is better than the movie here.
There is an undercurrent of bitterness in this book that I find off-putting.
I am given to understand by a friend that those elements--i.e., the autobiographical stuff in Goldman's own persona--are actually fictional.
I couldn't enjoy the writing of a writer who seemed as misanthropic and hateful as Goldman came off to me.
TPB is still a great book--better than three stars, but I couldn't quite bring myself to give it four.Stick to the movie.
I sure feel silly for bashing the genre so much in my reviews.” I wanted more or less the same true-love-conquers-all story but with better characters.
I feel sad to know that the great super-ninja assassin Westley fell for her because she’s so hawt.
Don’t worry, I hate Westley just as well, but the thought of everyone wanting to get Buttercup only because she’s incredibly beautiful makes me very angry.
Sure, the ending made up for it, he did end up being a zombie and all that (ick, try kissing him now Buttercup) so he is not as perfect as one would think.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/EVERY STAR THERE IS TO STAR!!!!!! Yeah, a little bit. It’s also the best book in the history of ever. Sure it has a little kissing but it also has pirates and bad guys and swordsmen and giants and R.O.U.S.es I’m not writing a synopsis. I’m not writing a review. I’m just telling you if you have not already read it, read it now. You ask: “What if I don’t like it????” INCONCEIVABLE! If you read it, hate it, and have the desire to 1 Star i
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/EVERY STAR THERE IS TO STAR!!!!!!
Yeah, a little bit.
Sure it has a little kissing
and bad guys
I’m not writing a synopsis.
I’m not writing a review.
I’m just telling you if you have not already read it, read it now.
If you read it, hate it, and have the desire to 1 Star it or say bad things, you should probably unfriend me first.
To this end he schemes to marry a beautiful peasant lass named Buttercup, market her as Florin’s sweetheart, have her assassinated, and frame Guilder.
Is he connected to Westley, Buttercup’s farm-boy sweetheart who sailed away years ago to seek his fortune?William Goldman’s novel, which satirizes old-fashioned swashbucklers and merrily bulldozes the fourth wall every other page, was published in 1975, but largely overshadowed by the 1987 film adaptation, wherein Goldman wrote the screenplay of his own novel.
The layers of meta-commentary can feel a bit stifling; luckily the film dispenses with Goldman’s “scholarly” digressions, using a grandpa reading to his grandson as a framing device instead.The book is not quite as family-friendly as the movie.
“Good night, Westley. Good work. Sleep well. I'll most likely kill you in the morning.” Just a glimpse of  The Princess Bride to wet your appetite. Wow, I loved it! The book is about true love and adventure. It has everything, as William Goldman describes in the beginning:  “Fencing. Fighting. Torture. Poison. True Love. Hate. Revenge. Giants. Hunters. Bad men. Good men. Beautifulest Ladies. Snakes. Spiders... Pain. Death. Brave men. Cowardly men. Strongest men. Chases. Escapes. Lies. Truths. P
The book is about true love and adventure.
True Love.
Bad men.
Good men.
Inigo, the greatest swordsman in the world, and Fezzik, the gentle giant that loved rhymes, are great!
“Two things happened:(1) The door, quite clearly, locked.(2) Out went the candles on the high walls."DON'T BE FRIGHTENED!" Inigo screamed."I'M NOT, I'M NOT!" Fezzik screamed.”
There's death coming up, and you better understand this: Some of the wrong people die.
The wrong people die, some of them, and the reason is this: life is not fair.
Mogenstern, a country called Florin, and that the novel is at once really "abridged" rather than written by him, and that everything actually does happen.That becomes a trifle irritating, you almost want the man to admit that: "yes, I am the man, I did write something that is beloved and adored and will be passed down from generation to generation, just as I claimed this book was passed down to me.
And that, though irritating, is actually one of the best things about the book.
As a child, says Goldman (within the novel, not in the introduction or anything), his father read PB to him aloud, and the boy fell in love with the book.
Meanwhile, Inigo Montoya searches for his father's six-fingered murderer, Fezzik plods along like a dumb giant, and about 300 pages into the novel, these 2 team up with Westley in an attempt to steal Buttercup away from Humperdink.The good news is that some of the movie's best scenes are taken verbatim from the book.
I read this thing when I was in sixth grade, mind you.
The literary devices, the story, the wit, the satire (I think he's even satiric regarding satire itself) - I don't care if it got turned into a silly movie with a cult following*, I think this one of the few modern books I've read that I'd call Literature.Plus, you know, it's also an amazing story.
Mind you, it was the first movie I'd watched that I'd read the book first, and it devastated me.
The movie can't help it it's not as amazing as the book.
Long before the movie existed, I stumbled across this book in my college bookstore.
And the book was NOT what I was expecting.
It was way, WAY better.If you love the movie, read the book ...
and don't let yourself get bogged down in the long, offbeat intro.
The movie is in large part very true to the book, but William Goldman has a dry, satirical sense of humor that doesn't entirely come through in the movie.But it's still about "Beasts of all natures and descriptions.
Brave men.
Coward men.
Strongest men.
This book was so fun!! I actually believed it's an abridged book, Goldman totally got me! I liked the way he wrote this book. The silly humor, the amazing characters, the wonderful story, everything was so damn entertaining!!
Still, I did enjoy reading the book and I think it deserves to shine in its own right.If you haven't heard about this tale (only God knows why), just with the title alone, you can tell that this book is fairytale.
So time and again, when you think you know how things might turn out based on typical fairytale tropes, this one messes with your expectations.
The narrative is a bit unusual, and so is the story of the princess bride herself and the various men ensnared in her plot line.The tone is humorous and could be quite shallow but let's be honest, a super cool plot is what keeps us interested in a story most of the time, and that's exactly what Goldman wants to celebrate in this book.
The Princess Bride by William Goldman and read by ROB REINER, what could be better than that!
I loved the movie which was so corny and funny that I think is certainly a classic by now.
The book is just as great if not better, and with Rob Reiner reading it is keeps the great hilarity going.
I normally don't listen to books because I read so fast, I can have six books or more finished in the time it takes to finish an audio but I wanted to hear it.
Thanks Mr Goldman for the funny book and Mr Reiner for keeping it that way!
ETA: Re-read 01/28/2015Wow, I haven't read this book in about five years and I forgot a lot of things about it.
:) For one thing, Westley slaps Buttercup's face, and I just can't brook that kind of behavior.
Especially with all the "true love" stuff thrown in.So, we've established that Westley is the kind of man scum who lays hands on a woman, and we've got problems with Buttercup herself - she's like a beautiful brainless Barbie.
It seems like Westley got off scot-free.Such a big deal is made out of Buttercup's beauty that it makes me uncomfortable.
She tends to talk a lot without getting to the point, so I decided a quick intervention would do good.What she was going to do was to tell you a very detailed story of how she came to know the book she was supposed to review and then she would go on saying things like "it was funny, blah, blah, blah" and in the end, nothing would be said.
The action never ends.• The interactions between the characters are funny as hell.• William Goldman's interruptions were amazing, especially when he got sarcastic and started talking about his experience on reading The Princess Bride with his father.
Dnf at 60%.How do you even begin to review a much-loved classic when you didn’t even manage to finish it?
First we have the introduction to the 30th edition: I read it and thought “wow that was tedious, this Goldman is pretty full of himself isn’t he?” Okay, so here I am ready to enjoy the story.
I must admit, I wasn’t in the best disposition when I started reading the actual story, which probably didn’t help.
I guess I should have thought twice about reading the book because it is, after all, a fairytale.
I didn’t like it.
With that in mind I was hyped to read The Princess Bride and not ready at all for the experience.When I lived in Jerusalem I used to leave the snowy heights in winter for the perpetual summer of the Dead Sea, the lowest place on earth, about an hour away.
It is a shock to the brain after the floating on the Dead Sea. You can't prepare yourself for the sinking, it is like an optical illusion, but a sensory one instead.
And so it was with the Princess Bride.For me, it just sank like a stone beneath the consciousness of the fun and perfection of the Silent Gondoliers.
He goes on to give tidbits such as a "reunion scene" that he wrote but could not include because his editor felt it was wrong for someone abridging someones elses work to add anything.If you have any of the "aniversary editions" (I read the 30th) there are other bonus materials such as recounts of the numerous law suits between the Morgenstern Estate and Goldman and a dispute where they were trying to get Stephen King to write the Sequel "Buttercup's Baby" instead of Goldman.
It was only after I tried to find Morgenstern's original work that I discovered that everything in The Princess Bride is fiction including all the asides.
While I was reading it, I was absolutely in love with it but once I finished it and thought about it a bit, I noticed a few problems with the story.
I then had a problem with the romance because if Buttercup only had her beauty going for her, then what did Westley like about her besides her beauty?
But while I was reading this, none of that really bothered me because I was so absorbed in the story and the book had other things going on besides the romance.
His writing was also brilliant, it's very easy to read and everything flows very nicely.
I actually came close to shuffling off this mortal coil in hospital last month when the blood poisoning was at its worst!
Anyway, I'm happy to report that I'm past the worst of it and am now recovering (painfully slowly) at home...
and this wonderful book has been a perfect sickbed read!I saw the movie a couple of times when I was a kid and loved it.
Better late than never, though, eh?This book appealed to the same part of my twisted mind that loves Terry Pratchett and Douglas Adams...
I did enjoy it on the whole, but I found my mind straying quite a bit thanks to a lot of "device" and not enough story.
Said device being the premise that the story is an abridgment of a very old classic, with the "abridger" insinuating himself into the story to tell you about the parts he cut out.
I'm surprised at the very high average rating for the book.
My guess would be people loved the movie so much that they let this high opinion inflate their ratings of the book.
The film is much more entertaining than the book.
Rating Clarification 4.5 stars.I want to start by saying that I LOOOOVE the movie, I dont even know how many times I have seen it already. I liked the book too, very much, just not as much; I guess that over the years the movie has reached epic territory in my mind. The Princess Bride is beautiful and funny. I think that all the exaggerations and classic fantasy elements of this book are brilliant, mostly because of the way they are mocked and the way they work perfectly to create such an amazin
I think that all the exaggerations and classic fantasy elements of this book are brilliant, mostly because of the way they are mocked and the way they work perfectly to create such an amazing and beautiful story.
This book is the same fairy-tale that all our parents read us as kids, I just think that this one in particular was written more for the parents than for the children, and I found this absolutely awesome, reading this book was like returning to that kid we once were and enjoying all those great adventures once more.Fantastic.P.S.: I didn't like the audio book with Rob Reiner as the narrator.
I'm probably spoiled because I have seen the movie version of "The Princess Bride" about a gazillion times.
It's really a novel within a novel as Goldman tells a fiction story about his relationship with S.
Morgenstern's "The Princess Bride" and his path to abridging it so it only has the "good parts".
If possible, I would give "The Princess Bride" 3-1/2 stars.
But, the pages and pages of introduction and prologue and some of the asides detract from the main story.
The movie keeps this stuff to a minimum, having only a few scenes of Peter Falk reading the book to Fred Savage.
I can't believe I thought Morgenstern was real.
Not for long, really.
When I discovered he wasn't I hated this book for a while.But then I reread it and it was awesome in an entirely new way.
I'm still not a huge fan of the fake little tidbits that the "abridgment" offers, especially the allusions to Florin as a real place, but I generally just skip over those.
I don't like the idea of the giant-talking-bird-thing that he mentions in the thirtieth-anniversary-edition...Maybe just because I don't like birds.
They're creepy.
Extra creepy if they're giant and they speak.
Buddy read with Shandra, Annette, Cathyrn May 24Actual Rating 4.5 stars There is no room in my body for anything but you.
My arms love you, my ears adore you, my knees shake with blind affection.
My mind begs you to ask for something so it can obey.
Do you want me to follow you for the rest of your days?
Do you want me to crawl?
I will crawl.
I will be quite for you or sing for you, if you are hungry, let me bring you food, or if you have thirst and nothing will quench it but Ara
There are some things left out, like Fezzik and Inigo looking for Westley going through the different levels of the zoo.
Buttercup was much more annoying, not in a bad way.
I think really enjoying these characters in raw form made this book so much better than the movie.
That rhymed, but where was the Cupid?
*On a side note: I love her in the House of Cards.*I think I can leave out Prince Humperdinck and Count Rugen cause they are slimy and I do not like them!
They were actually better characters in the book than in the movie.
