https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114872.The_Man_Who_Died
An interesting concept - Jesus rises and looks for his LIFE.But, the execution is rife with subtleties and one might miss the track.
Jesus rises (?) from the dead and looks for his life.
He regrets that he had not live his life as a man before death.
The priestess on the other hand is the one who is in search of the right man.
H. Lawrence seems to say that only in man and woman coming together, one achieves one's fullness.
The man by sowing his seed and woman by bearing the fruit of that seed.Interesting concept.
Şimdi, sözlerin insanı artık ısıramayacağı yeri geçtim, hava duru, söylenecek bir söz yok, kendi derimin içinde yapayalnızım; kendi derimin içinde, yani olanca mülkümün sınırları arasında..."Kitap iki ayrı bölümden -iki ayrı uzun hikaye- oluşuyor; 1.
bölüm ise Mısır Mitolojisi'ndeki Osiris'in dirimi.
-hem de Bilge Karasu'nun incelikli Öz Türkçesi ile.
İsa ve Osiris yeni dirimleri ile eskisinden tamamen farklı yeni bi' yaşamı arzularken eski yaşantılarının bilinçlerinde ve vücutlarında bıraktığı kalıntıları da bi' bulantı gibi taşımaktadırlar.Aslında, kendilerini eskisinden ne daha iyi ne de daha kötü hissederler.
Kitap, Bilge Karasu tarafından çevrilmiş.
TDK da Öz Türkçe ile süper çevrilmiş bu kitap için Bilge Karasu'ya çeviri ödülü vermiş.
Among men, and women, with his cock, his cock which "gleams with bright aloneness." To his former life, before he died, he looks back with regret:"Strange is the phenomenal world, dirty and clean together!
And life bubbles variously.
Yet they could not finally execute me, for now I am risen in my own aloneness, and inherit the earth, since I lay no claim on it.
He feels "the blaze of his manhood and his power rise up in his loins, magnificent." He exclaims:"I am risen!"He strips her of her garment.
He sees the "white glow of her white-gold breasts." He exclaims:"Father!
"Garip dünya, garip doğrusu; hem kirli hem de temiz. Ben de öyleyim işte...her şeyin kaynaşması içinde de yalnız kalacağım. Hep yalnız, her şeyden çok, yalnız..."(39/78)Ölen , sonra dirilen, dünyada kefenini sürüye sürüye dolaşmaya başlayan bir adam...Peki bir fark var mıydı ?Kendinde ya da yaşayanlarda...Kısa , metaforlu bir hikaye... Bazen okurken dağıldım bazen geri döndüm hikayeye.Sonuç ölsek ve geri dönsek bu dünyaya, biz yine o bildik biz olurduk her halde, günahımızla,sevabımızla,saçmalıklarımızla ve zalimliklerimizle!!!
This is one of those genius stories where you can't even say the subject without spoiling the plot.I am officially a woman in love.
I purchased and read this edition at Grinnell College, impressed by its cover and interested in its topic.
A novella, it might be compared to Kazanzatkis' long novel as representative of Jesus as a human being with his own, inner life.
Here, Jesus survives and escapes--to Egypt where he hooks up with a priestess of Isis, Queen Mother of Heaven.Lawrence likely had an agenda with this, his last work.
It may be read as a critique of the paternalistic one-sidedness of the Judeo-Christian faiths and a defense of the spiritual significance of sexuality--quite in keeping with his other, mature writings.
Pela qualidade da prosa de D. H. Lawrence, esse conto até mereceria mais estrelas. Mas sua pretensão de teologia é tão reles, as "doutrinas" que ele busca aplicar nessa história para supostamente reanimar o cristianismo (que ele parece supor morto) são tão bobas que, na verdade, duas estrelas já são até demais. É lamentável que um escritor com tamanho talento e capacidade perscrutadora da natureza humana resolva envolver-se numa experiência tão infeliz, na tentativa de justificar seu próprio conflito com a religião de sua civilização. Melhor esquecer que Lawrence escreveu isso.

Of the 1800 or so sayings attributed to Jesus in the Bible, biblical scholars have whittled that number down to less than 100 sayings that they believe to actually be his.
This book explores that moment when those two identities crossed--Jesus's resurrection from the dead.
Tackled in Lawrence's distinctive style, "The Man Who Died" is far more provocative than works such as Mailer's "The Gospel According to the Sun" and is reminiscent of Scorsese's "The Last Temptation of Christ." It confronts the received biblical narrative and shatters the narrow existential walls that limit the spiritual exploration that Jesus's life story demands.It is not just a must read, it is a must own.
As strange a novel as I've ever read. Having read it twice now, I'm still not sure what to think of it intellectually or spiritually, but it awes me on a visceral level.
I genuinely don't know.The story has two parts, and though never explicitly mentioned, at least not in name, it features Jesus as the protagonist.
I think I liked it.And then came the second part, which involved the sexual awakening of Jesus.
The part of me which is the daughter of a convent-educated woman was scandalised– a voice somewhere was hissing blasphemy...But all said and done, I strongly believe in literary freedom, and I also knew what I was getting into – what I didn't expect was the way it was.Let's just say D H Lawrence was lucky the Pope doesn't issue fatwas.
“Escrevi uma história da Ressurreição onde Jesus se levanta a braços com uma grande náusea perante tudo, deixa de suportar a velha multidão, e mais – corta com ela – e enquanto se vai restabelecendo começa a perceber quão espantoso e prodigioso o mundo é, bem mais maravilhoso do que qualquer salvação ou céu – e agradece às suas estrelas por não ter, nunca mais, necessidade de cumprir uma “missão”.” D.H. Lawrence, em carta a Achsah BrewsterPublicado no ano anterior à sua morte, em O Homem que Morreu, Lawrence apresenta-nos uma diferente perspectiva da Ressurreição, em que, contrariamente à ascensão aos céus apontada pela religião, Jesus abraça uma nova vida, após emergir dolorosamente da morte.
THE MAN WHO DIED is one of the books that I keep coming back to. Every few years I re-read it and always find something new. Lawrence's reimagining of the death and resurrection of Jesus is the finest and most inspiring expression of the author's philosophy of the triumph of life over death, and being over non-being. I cannot express in words what this novella really means to me.
Read in 2000 during my Lawrence and Patchen days. I never liked Lawrence and this book offended me even as a deist, which i was at the time.

"For her again he felt desperate, faced by the demand of life, and burdened still by his death."Let me anoint you!" the woman said to him softly.
"Let me anoint the scars!
And as she chafed his hand, it all came back, the nails, the holes, the cruelty, the unjust cruelty against him who had offered only kindness.
The agony of injustice and cruelty came over him again, as in his death-hour.
But she chafed the palm, murmuring: "What was torn becomes a new flesh, what was a wound is full of fresh life; this scar is the eye of the violet.""
İkinci bölümü ise 1928’de İsviçre’de bulunduğu sırada ekler.Kitap 1929’da ilk olarak The Black Sun Press tarafından The Escaped Cock başlığıyla sınırlı sayıda basılır.
Daha sonra ise Lawrence sınırsız sayıda baskı için pazarlığa girişir ve eserinin The Man Who Died adıyla basılmasına razı olur fakat orijinal başlığın alt başlık olarak kalmasında ısrar eder.
Dirilen adam, bağımsız ruhlar arasında gerçek bir ilişkiyi temenni eder.
Böyle bir kadına denk gelmesi için Ego’nun ölmesi gerekir.İkinci bölümde yer alan kadın doğanın somutlaşmış halidir, kendini doğa olarak ifade eder.
Thankfully I didn't read the premise before I started reading, and the realization of what this story really is about dawned upon me slowly and steadily. Loved reading this. So vivid and richly described.
This is Lawrence's account of what Jesus did after his resurrection.
In some ways it's good.
Jesus is innovatively and believably done with preaching and being involved with followers and crowds.
Lawrence portrays a sense of world-weariness that I feel too in the later parts of the gospels.
The first part of the story recounts well his dazed and gradually less numb state finding himself alive after he had been dead.
I like and admire much of Lawrence but he can get into a sort of redundant trance about the inward darkness of sex, and Jesus wanders into that territory.
نهض المسيح عن الموت ونفض عن نفسه كل الأوهام وقال: "رسالتي قد انتهت، وكذلك تعاليمي، أنقذني الموت من تحقيق خلاصي.. أريد الآن أن أتبع طريقتي الخاصة في الحياة في قدري ونصيبي.. وسرعان ما أستطيع الإلتفات إلى قدري مثل مستحم في البحر عند الفجر نزل لتوه إلى الشاطئ بمفرده.."
seviyorum bu adamı seviyorum arkadaşne yazsa okurum gibi geliyoredebiyatı bu şekilde çıkarabilmek için ne yapmak gerekiyor acaba?bu olmak mı yoksa yapmak mı?
Till, in the night, one of these rare, invisible suns that have been killed and shine no more, rises among the stars in unseen purple, and like the violet, sends its rare purple rays out into the night.
To these the lotus stirs as to a caress, and rises upwards through the flood, and lifts up her bent head, and opens with an expansion such as no other flower knows...
She was in the full glow of her woman's mystery.
*****Suns beyond suns had dipped her in mysterious fire, the mysterious fire of a potent woman, and to touch her was like touching the sun.
Jesus never knew the touch of a woman in all its tenderness all the while he was alive and walking the earth, still tethered to the depths of the unknown after his resurection wanders the earth to find the reason for his resurection.
So he comes back from dead knowing not what to do with his new found life and goes around trying to experience life in all its waves of search and fulfilment, and fearing the touch of flesh for it only means death to him.
There is an atmosphere of melancholy and self-discovery alike filling this novella.
Lawrence excels in the short form because, consistently, he works and read more comfortably indulging in pure narration rather than having two or more characters reacting to one another in a believably human way.
His narrative gifts are in full flower here and, despite the high flown nature of the subject, Lawrence's prose does a good job of remaining accessible to novices.
It is only occasional when Lawrence's writing becomes such a strong reflection of his internal realities that it lapses into obscurity, but these passages pop up infrequently.
Leer historias alternativas acerca de sucesos bíblicos siempre me resulta satisfactorio. ¿Qué pasa si Jesús acepta que la resurrección no se efectuó porque no hubo muerte? ¿Qué vida debe llevar y qué vida deben llevar sus seguidores?
Fairly lightweight as a novel by Lawrence's standards I suppose, but the prose still envelopes you all the same. The theme must have shocked his contemporaries, Christ finding a kind of post-crucifixion redemption by getting laid, but in its way it works.

This is a short little book.
Jesus comes back from the dead and realizes his compulsive proselytizing was counterproductive and had the effect of glorifying death before life.
There's a comparison to a charismatic and healthy rooster that's tied up and can't appropriately bring the glory without a twinge of chagrin.
It's actually pretty funny and I wouldn't be surprised to hear it was a deal breaker for some of his friendships.
In the second part of the book, Jesus finds a way to honor his flesh, and pray respects the natural world and its myriad gifts.
It's a fun little book, only 100 pages.
Free download available at eBooks@Adelaide.From Wiki:The Escaped Cock was always Lawrence's preferred title for this tale but it has also been printed under the title The Man Who Died by some later publishers.
Lahr asked for the title to be changed to The Man Who Died and Lawrence eventually agreed, insisting that the original title should be retained as a subtitle.
This projected Lahr edition failed to appear and the first English edition was eventually published by Martin Secker in September 1931 as The Man Who Died, a title never approved by the author.
D.H. Lawrence is out of fashion these days. In academia, gender politics tend to rule and Lawrence's complicated views are not seen favorably. To quote Harold Bloom, like the phoenix myth of vitality he wrote so much about, his reputation will rise from the ashes and will return to the higher ranks of the "Canon." One of Lawrence's final novellas, The Man Who Died finds Jesus surviving his crucifixion and exploring his vitality with Isis, an Egyptian Goddess. So he fakes his death and gets it on with a pagan. This rivals Danielle Steele.
