https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/282436.The_Golden_Egg_Book
This book, especially its pictures, must be indelibly imprinted upon my unconscious from having had it read to me since infancy. When I saw it again recently, for the first time in X years, my mind regressed into a three-year old's, and I wanted only to sit quietly and stare at the cute lovable sincere innocent playful images for hours. Sober.
I don't think this is one of the more widely known books of Brown's but it was the first book I remember in my life, period.
The book was physically huge, and although I'm sure my perspective is way off, I know that there is a size much larger than this typical Golden book.
But it was my favorite book, and I have very fond memories of it.
It's a sweet story about a bunny that finds an egg and is curious about it.
I highly recommend this book to anyone who remembers being a curious kid.
Cute and funny at times. The end didn't match the plot when there wasn't any mention of the rabit's loneliness to begin with.
Of course, with Brown and Weisgard, it's not a bad book. And in fact I was thinking four stars until the end, but it kinda just stops, in a manner that I found unsatisfying. I wouldn't be content, as bunny is, to not wonder what happened to the egg. That being said, I love these animal stand-ins for children. The book would be way too saccharine if they didn't kick a bit....
I've been drawn to a lot of old Little Golden Books lately and I'd never heard of this one by Brown (Goodnight Moon author). I love the larger size, the beautiful colors and comforting illustrations. I love thinking and guessing about what's inside the egg. Alistair has picked up on imitating the "pick pick pick" part for hatching noises and I hear him using it in pretend play. Good book for talking about hatching too.
The end of the story is a little saccharine for my tastes, but the illustrations are adorable enough to make up for it.
My children loved this book.
Though young children have few reservations about being naughty themselves they do maintain a strong sense of right and wrong and the duck pushing the bunny with his foot, jumping on him, throwing a little rock at him and rolling him down a hill provoked a barrage of questions from my 4 year old granddaughter.
Of course it only takes the turn of a page for the duck and the bunny to become friends but with a few adjustments this adorably cute book could have been an all-time favourite.
Illustrated by Leonard Weisgard, this is a charming story that is told about a little bunny who finds an egg and a friend when lonely.
He hears something inside of the egg and tries to guess what it is.
He tries to get what is inside to come out, but cannot.
With a few pecks and a crack, a little yellow duck comes out.
The duck tries to wake the bunny up and once he does, they become friends.
This book could be used in a classroom to teach about friendship, or could even be used around Easter (mainly because it is not religious, but has an egg theme).
the pictures are lovely but the story is inane and the last line "no one was ever alone again" is just awful. Also the duck should say he's from the egg. Pushing and throwing rocks at eggs and sleeping bunnies is not really the most enriching subject matter.
I so enjoyed this book when I was a little girl. I remember the illustrations and how they made me smile. I am looking forward to sharing this book with my grandchildren.
The bunny can hear something inside the egg and tries a bunch of different ways to open the egg because it just cant wait to see what’s inside.
What’s inside the egg is a curious baby chick who doesn’t know what the sleeping bunny is.
The chick tried to wake the bunny up with the same methods that the bunny did to the egg and finally the bunny wakes up after being rolled down a hill.
When the bunny woke up, he was confused because his egg was gone but that didn’t matter anymore because he had a new friend, the chick.
A book about a mean rabbit and a mean duck with an abrupt and unfit ending.
Fails to answer the question of where bunnies come from. Still, I love Margaret Wise Brown's prose for children.
SO CUTE. Though, raise your hand if you thought the bunny was dead when he had rocks being hurtled at him and wouldn't wake up.
This is a delightful children's story about a rabbit, it's friends, and an Easter egg. The book is colorfully illustrated and easy to read.
A bunny finds an egg and tries to crack it, then falls asleep exhausted. A duck hatches from the egg, finds the bunny and tries to wake him up. They become friends. Sweet drawings and tale about friends.
I loved the illustrations.
"No one was ever alone again." ❤️
Since the spring Easter holiday would be the weekend following the story time on "boxes" this story was included.I happen to have a tiny plush bunny exactly the size of the bunny illustrations in this book.
I have a plush duck that fits in the egg and is the same size and coloring as the duck in the illustrations.
While reading the story I held the book in one hand and held the bunny, egg, or duck over the illustration on each page.
The children attending story time were enchanted.Margaret Wise Brown's prose is peppered with questions and sound effects and silly fantasy.
The Golden Egg Book is a charming story about a little bunny who finds an egg and a friend when he is lonely.
He hears something inside egg and tries to guess what it is.
He tries to get what’s inside to come out but can’t.
Then with a few pecks and a crack, a little yellow duck comes out.
The duck tries to wake the bunny up and once he does they become friends and the bunny is no longer lonely.
A teacher could show the class how the bunny and duck are different but become great friends.
Somehow we missed reviewing this gem last Easter.
He loves this book.
It is a unique large edition from the Little Golden Books.
This larger size really helps as the binding is much better than the other little goldens and the title of the book is visible on the binding (the regular sized goldens do not have the title which is awkward on the bookshelf).
So the Golden Egg is encountered by a little rabbit.
The rabbit has not idea what it is.
Little does he know that the egg contains his new friend--the little chick.
A small, brown bunny comes across an unidentified egg in the woods.
He wonders what could be inside the egg: a little boy, an elephant, another bunny?
He can hear sounds coming from the egg and he investigates.
The bunny jumps on the egg and rolls it down the hill, but still the egg doesn't hatch.
Finally the bunny goes to sleep and when he wakes up he has an unexpected friend...Children will laugh when the bunny tries to guess what's inside the mystery egg.
The Golden Egg Book shows us that curiosity is a good thing and that you can find friends in the ways you least expect.
Super-classic story about a bunny who finds an egg. Despite his best efforts, he can't break the egg to find out what's in it. So, he does what any of us would do - he takes a nap! The little duck who hatches out discovers a little rabbit. But despite his best efforts, he cannot wake him up! Until he does, and they are friends forever.Classic children's illustrations accompany the text in this large format book. A very cute story, with very old-fashioned illustrations, will appeal to many. Good for a storytime.
I bought this book, The Golden Egg Book, by Margaret Wise Brown, for my older daughter after having my friend and fellow reader recommend it -- a felicitous purchase. I had no idea what the book was about, but thought the cover looked very Easter-ish. It is a delightful story of a bunny and a new-hatched duck that I hope my older daughter will someday view as a metaphor for the birth of her new baby sister; it is my fervent desire that my two girls will have a deep, abiding, and loving friendship.
Now this is adorable.
Written by the author of Goodnight, Moon this is a completely charming tale of a bunny discovering an egg and his wonder about what it contains.I started reading this to one child but soon all three were paying rapt attention.
The illustrations are so like my favorite old Golden Book illustrations that I was quickly won over.Why isn't this more well-known?
Maybe it is and I'm just late to the party.
If you haven't read this and you enjoyed Golden books when you were a child, or if you like Margaret Wise Brown's simple storytelling, I think you will enjoy this.
Possibly the sweetest book ever. The illustrations of the bunny trying to get some reaction out of the egg crack me up. This book also makes me insanely sleepy. The little warm snuggly bunny, yawning, and curling up in the sun -- "he fell asleep because he was so sleepy." And then Paul wants to hear it over and over and over again. And my voice gets sleepier and sleepier. And somewhere in the back of my head, I can almost hear my mother's voice reading this book. And it's also getting sleepier and sleepier.
Date: 3/19Author: Margaret Wise Brown; Illustrated by Leonard WeisguardTitle: The Golden Egg BookPlot: A bunny comes upon a egg and tries to figure out what is in it.Setting: the forestCharacters: Bunny and DuckPoint of View:First personTheme: Changes within ourselvesStyle: Picture bookCopyright: 1947Your Reaction: Beautiful illustrations, with a simple story that is great for teaching point of view. Picture book
OMG. This is really cute!!!!I found this book at the antique store.Even though I've never heard of this book before, I fell in love with this at first sight.The edition that I have is not in this Goodreads site. Wonder why.Mine is illustrated by Lilian Obligado and published in 1973.(It says it was first published in 1947.)I can't upload the picture, but it's really cute and heart-warming book.
3.5 STARSGorgeous illustrations! Five-star worthy! However, the story is rather odd--I'm not sure I was an especial fan of all the kicking and throwing rocks at the egg to try to get whatever was in it to come out :-/ And, the ending sounded like something I would have written when I was five. Sometimes I enjoy Margaret Wise Brown's work, sometimes I just don't get it and this was one of the latter. Still, well worth the read for Leonard Weisgard's illustrations!
I love how tactile the action of the book is. The little bunny rolls the eggs, listens to the egg, even kicks the egg. It reminded me of some exercises I'd done recently in a mindfulness class.The illustrations are adorable. I read the book with a preschooler who thoroughly enjoyed it. As we read we acted out with our hands and bodies all that the bunny did. I'm not sure she understood the end, but I bet she will next year.
