https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/694454.Dialectical_and_Historical_Materialism
This small little book was my awakening and I have never seen the world the same.
honestly one of the best pieces of introductory work on Marxist dialectics. Stalin wasn't exactly known as a theorist himself but he really has a way of drawing out the important points. specific attention is paid to he basis of dialectics being in the objective world; this is a good antidote to the postmodern Whig history taught as Marxism at American universities.
a mess. reifies dialectics and makes it part of biological development (as in engels), draws out a schematic vanguardism, and a pat narrative of historical development. ideology theory, which is nuanced historically, reduced to party dogmatism. nasty business!
I was looking for a starter text on dialectical materialism, and who better to provide one than Joseph Stalin himself?
In the meantime, however, I was looking for a concise overview of dialectical and historical materialism specifically with regards to Marxism-Leninism and the text does everything I asked of it.
Diamat is, obviously, a post-Lenin concept but Stalin does a competent job of demonstrating its intimate relation to the ideas and practice of Lenin.
What I was looking for, and what I received, was a concise and elegant overview of diamat as envisioned by Stalin and practiced in the USSR.
A quick overview that gives a decent overview of the core philosophical components of Marxism.
Interestingly enough there does seem to be an almost religious flair to Dialectical Materialism with its view of reality being a vast interconnected web defined by contradictions whose resolution propels society and humanity ever forward.
Given its scope its fairly one-sided and in parts has a rather simplistic and view of historical conditions and development which had elements which even at that time were known to be false.An overall odd thing for Stalin to have written particularly given this was produced only months before the German invasion.
Very concise overview of both of these concepts with notable quotations from Marx, Engels, and Lenin. Stalin shows his firm grasp of Marxist philosophy in this book. A great introduction to both concepts.
Arguably one of the worst articles written in the history of Marxism, only read if you want to see what a dilettante was in philosophy.
A regurgitation of Marx. I can't seem to find anything new in Stalin's analysis. Not necessarily a *bad* book, just not incredibly interesting.
Great book that explains dialectical materialism for beginners.
A concise and accessible exposition of the tenets of historical materialism with recurring quotes from Marx, Engels and Lenin. The author, using a simplistic argument structure and language, emphasises the importance of the relations of production matching productive forces. Such an analysis logically concludes with an empirical assessment of how socialist revolution is necessitated from instabilities in the relations of production and exploitative economic relationships.
A very crisp and clear explanation of the theory propounded by the Russian communists. The beautiful part is how the abstract concept was applied into the political and sociological theories. A must read if you want to understand why communists do what they do.
incredibly clear, accessible book about dialectical materialism. great for beginners. stalin has a talent for elucidating the main points.
A little book that was probably wrote for Stalin rather than by Stalin, but who knows! A very clear and concise overview suitable for one's introduction to Dialectical and Historical Materialism.
Un par de cosas medias nuevas y reveladoras entre varias otras ya sabidas. Joseph tal vez no sea el genio lógico y discursivo que creíamos.

Es un libro muy claro donde explica lo que es el Materialismo Histórico y Dialéctico citando a Marx, Engels y Lenin. Es sencillo y abre el mundo marxista para la gente que no entiende mucho. Lo recomiendo.
A good book about the functioning of society, means of production, various development systems but needs more basic understanding to read this book. Need to re-read again and again. You may get different perspectives each time. Thanks to Joseph Stalin :-)
Pretty good.
diğer kitapların derlemesi gibiydi. Yarım saatte üretim dengesinde araçların rolünü anlıyorsunuz.
What comes first? Matter or spirit? Exploited vs exploiting? fight of material over ideal. few things that are striking
Good enough to understand diamat, and how diamat is a buch of nonsense, self-refuting truisms, pseudo scientific mumbo jumboBad economics, bad history, bad social sciences all the way.
An excellent introduction to Marxist thought. Pretty basic, but still great if you want to grasp the way dialectical materialism works.
good explanations, a little bit off the mark for me in certain spots but overall a decent quick read.
