https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7098.Terrible_Swift_Sword
He had a wonderful way of writing about history, bringing it to life with a great deal of humanity and a sometimes sardonically wicked sense of humor.
He was a superb historian as well; he knew the Civil War and had an ability to write about it from the viewpoint not only of the generals and politicians, but from the common soldiers of both the North and South.
Catton captures the gritty sense of the battles, the urgency and uncertainty, the back-and-forth strategy of the commanders, as well as the fear all the soldiers fought their way through.
While no fan of McClellan, Catton points out the irony in these accusations lodged against the Army of the Potomac's leader: a swift end to the war would have been better for McClellan's supposed sympathies had he truly wanted to see the Union as well as slavery remain intact.
And this win comes toward the end of volume two: Antietam, the agonizing September 1862 battle day still remembered as a costly Union victory and the bloodiest day in United States history, creates a feeling in the North that momentum might very well be turning.
Again, he focuses less on the minutia of the details of specific battles and spends his time relating how the various events and battles formed the opinions and actions of the players, major and minor.When focusing on battles, Mr. Catton is very good at showing the big picture so that you know why Forts Donelson and Henry were such significant Union victories and how events in the Western theatre (and his knowledge of McClellan's shortcomings) affected Lee's decision to move into Maryland in 1862.I repeat...
if you haven't read Mr. Catton's works, you've really missed out.
Bruce Catton's second installment of The Centennial History of the Civil War trilogy covers the middle portion of the war beginning with the aftermath of First Manassas to the Battle of Antietam and the Emancipation proclamation in September 1863. It is a decent overview of this time-frame told chronologically, focusing on both the military and political aspects of the conflict. Catton does not get mired in details of the various battles, but instead, stays at a higher level view, explaining the big picture of each engagement.
Look backward, General MacClellan has done a very bad job.
He is more a selfish politician than a good soldier.
On the slavery topic, Lincoln is walking on a very thin line to manage it toward his plan.
I read that some other people (criticize for the sake of criticizing the Bad US) said Lincoln initially also didn’t want to free the slavers.
But if he did that too early, not only the problem can’t be solved under his government, but also the union can’t win the south.His choice of the general is a disappointment at the beginning of the war.
I think this is one of the best Bruce Catton books dealing with the Civil War. Compare this to the Bhagavad Gita and the question of why we fight our brothers??
I hadn't completely understood that US forces were poised on the border of Kentucky, which had (ridiculously it seems now) attempted to remain neutral between the warring factions, way too much land right there in the middle, but they gave it a go, and said that the first army to cross into Kentucky was the enemy, so Lincoln said to wait till the Confederacy crossed, and the rest is history.
In fact, McClellan really wanted all the power all of the time, and the nasty-tempered letters he sent back to the missuz (oh how many of us think our correspondence will be kept private?) show that he not only wanted to control the army, but he wanted to be either dictator or president long before the re-election of Lincoln was in question.
I have several of Mr. Catton's books. I am sure these are in every Civil War library.
wilson's creek in southwestern missouri between lyon (union) and price/mccullough (confederacy), con
First, Catton's three volume history of the Civil War is for my money the best for the general reader, hands down.
Look to "The Battle Cry of Freedom" for a masterful single volume treatment; or Shelby Foote's series if you want to know the particulars about Ulysses Grant's riverboat drinking benders or the specific military maneuvers that won or lost any battle in the war.
But if you are a reader interested in knowing who the big players were in the Civil War, what they did and why they did it, look no further than Catton's series.
This is a really top series of three volumes on the Civil War. It provides the broad sweep of a very complex and intricate conflict.
This is the second volume finished and now beginning the third and final book.
As I proceed through the series I find my understanding of the forces at work behind this cataclysmic event in American history clarifies with each passing page.
It is such a great pleasure to read well researched history and learn with no pain!
Catton earned every cent he made off this effort, a great piece of work.
I wasn't expecting this trilogy to measure up to Catton's Army of the Potomac trilogy, because I liked those so much.
To my happy surprise, however, it does, or at least this book definitely does; I haven't read the other two yet (Catton books are hard to find at the library sometimes).
I loved this book and it was not the slight letdown I had expected after already having read the Army of the Potomac trilogy.
This book was Catton at his best, and if you read Catton you will realize that is really saying something.
One of the best accounts of the ACW and its repercussions that I have read.
The author presents a more even accounting than others.
For example, his coverage on the campaign to take New Orleans is as detailed as the campaign culminating in Antietam.
This is a rarity in my experience as authors typically favor the land campaigns, and the campaigns in Virginia disproportionally.
Arguably, disproportionally to their importance.Of special note are the absolutely fantastic maps: detailed, clear, and very attractive as well.
All this from a book penned 55 years ago.This book is a must read for anyone interested in the ACW at a strategic and operational level.
The recent dust-up over the propriety of waving the Confederate battle flag brought forth lots of opinions - some well-reasoned, others not - on whether the Civil War was waged by the Union to either preserve the Union or abolish slavery.
50 years before this Internet/AM radio debate, Bruce Catton showed that the answer to that question is not an either/or proposition, but that the War Between the States began as an effort to keep the US together and ended with the goal of crushing the rebellion as well as slavery.
The war is fully under way and the rebels are outnumbered and outgunned.
The outcome depends upon whether they can acquire allies in Europe.
A decisive Confederate victory might induce British support, but English mills have enough cotton for the present.
European aid does not materialize.
The South is on its own, but Lee's military success in the East prolongs the war.
U.S. Grant emerges in the West and moves to take Vicksburg, as Volume 2 comes to a close.This book drags on for hundreds of pages, but then so did the war.
A clear and readable account of the war to 1863.
The second in Bruce Catton's outstanding trilogy detailing the US Civil War. I listened to it as an audiobook, which occasionally made things a little hard to follow in terms of the details of battles, etc.
I listen to books primarily when I'm running or walking, and it's a little tricky to be looking at a map while I'm doing that.
But this is more a problem with my method of listening than anything else.Overall, this is an excellent book and I recommend it to anyone who wants to delve into Civil War history.
First published in Great Britain in 1963. I agree with LA Times review: "Once more Bruce Catton demonstrates almost uncanny ability to translate this annealing national experience into a folk saga . . . ought to be required reading for every American." Dense. Fascinating. Elegantly written. Includes index and copious notes and bibliography. Still, I underlined.
Wonderful book - second in the three-book series. Love his narrative and theses presented throughout; e.g., part of the South's weakness was the strong states' rights position that caused the central government to not exert enough control to get troops to where they were needed.
Good read but Shelby Foote smokes Catton hands down in every way. So if you have this laying around, read it, it's very good. But if you are looking for the definitive Civil War history don't waste your time, go get Shelby's books and settle down for some of the greatest history ever written.
GT Barnes & Noble, early September 2009.
I have not yet read a finer, more lucidly written and insightful narrative of the Civil War than Catton's.
Definitely have read this before but completely forgot about it.
Volume 2
Incredibly detailed history of the Civil War. Excellent.
Phil Sheridan is not as well known as Grant and Shermand but he destroyed the Confederate breadbasket in the Shenandoah Valley and helped compell Lee's surrender at Apppmattox.
Bruce Catton has written an excellent trilogy on the civil war. He does an amazing job making history come alive and is absolutely captivating.
Reviewed under the rubric of "The Centennial History of the Civil War" of which this is volume two of three.
Excellent retelling of the middle portion of the war. Not as strong as the third volume but still very impressive.
Have re read several times, loved his entire series on the Civil War
Very well written. Highly recommended.
