https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228534.The_Weight_of_Water
- The same island described a million times.
The book flashes between the present, a letter written in the 1800s and descriptions of events from the 1800s.
The problem is that it goes something like this:  Women.
Stuff from a long time ago.
Island descriptions.
Island descriptions.
There isn't even so much as a space between the paragraphs to the let the reader know that Shreve is switching between past and present.
Instead, you get 2-4 paragraphs of current stuff then jump to 2 paragraphs of history, then back to the present and on and on and on.
"The Weight of Water" is a much better crafted work than the more recent Oprah pick.In the novel, a photojournalist named Jean gets an assignment to do a photo essay on a 100-year-old double-murder that happened on the Isles of Shoals, a tiny group of islands off the coast of New Hampshire.
“I learned that night that love is never as ferocious as when you think it is going to leave you.
We are not always allowed this knowledge, and so our love sometimes becomes retrospective.”Anita Shreve has such a somber but beautiful voice.
Her stories are incredibly emotional.
The plot was somewhat scattered and none of the characters were developed enough for me to love them.
Some writers, good characters are all they have.
But Shreve’s voice is stunning enough in itself, that the actual story became almost immaterial while I was reading.
Not that this story was bad, because it wasn’t.
But the writing.
The writing was just mesmerizing.
This is a powerful book about jealousy, envy, rage and destructive secrets. I'd seen the movie, but the book is far more powerful and the consequences more devastating. I don't understand why they changed the ending in the film.
How many times have I read this novel and felt the weight of its somber message and its deep artistry? Six? Seven? And how many times have I visited the place where the ancient events happened, on a tiny, forbidding island off the coast of New Hampshire?
Immersing herself in accounts of the lives of the fishermen's wives who were its victims, she becomes obsessed with the barrenness of these women's days: the ardor-killing labor, the long stretches of loneliness, the maddening relentless winds that threatened to scour them off the rocky island.
The forces that blasted the island a century earlier come alive inside Jean, bringing her to the verge of actions she never dreamed herself capable of - with no idea whether her choices will destroy all she has ever valued or bring her safely home."I found this book hard to read, it jumps suddenly from first person story in the present day to telling the story of two women who were murdered in the 1800's.
I thought this was one of her better efforts, with interwoven plots, some great characterization, and a very sure hand with the New England background.
Even though I saw the present-day plot twist coming from about page 10, the book still held my interest...I mentally screamed, "Look out!
I enjoyed this book very much, but most of her others, notably "The Pilot's Wife" (gee, how could the reader miss that little plot "surpirse"?) and the most dreadful, disappointing, wordy, empty "A Wedding in December." That one made me swear off Shreve for good...or at least for now.
Shreve is a lyrical storyteller, but this one did not come together for me as much as some. I loved the idea of the old murder mystery, combined with the present day...but felt little attachment to the characters of the present.  I will say, I figured out the twist in the past story, but did not see the present day twist coming...kind of blindsided me. She paints a beautiful picture of her settings and I was transported to a different and harsh time. A rather sad story overall.
*Spoiler* The photographer, her husband, her 5-year old daughter, her brother-in-law and his girlfriend are on a sailboat and a storm comes up before they can move to a safer harbor.
So somehow, the photographer thinks she's responsible for her daughter's death because she suspected her husband of having an affair with the girlfriend(?).
I can see she'd think herself responsible for her daughter's death because she didn't save her daughter or even realize her daughter was in danger but none of that has anything to do with whether her husband was having an affair.
Maybe it is just me but I had a difficult time with this book on an ethical basis.
One in current time the other based on an actual event that occurred in 1873 on Smuttynose Island.
Shreve offers the reader her own alternate theory of what happened in 1873 through one of her fictional characters removing a ficitional diary of the sole survivor (real person)from the archive of a library.
We, the reader, learn the truth about the murders through this discovered diary.
My problem is that Shreve's "theory" about the truth of the murders implicates a factual person in a very realistic way.
A true watery dirge. Harrowing and ultimately haunting.
In 1873, such a family inhabited a house on the island - John Hontvedt, his wife, Maren, Maren's siblings, Karen and Evan, Evan's wife Anethe, and a couple sundry boarders.
One night, when the men were at sea, someone entered the house and brutally murdered Karen and Anethe.
The stories progress in parallel, with Jean's story approaching a tragedy (which she mentions on the first page, though we remain ignorant of its nature until the end), and Maren's story approaching the murders and Shreve's invented solution of the question of who the true murderer was.
Jean becomes increasingly interested in learning more about these murders and finds an old forgotten diary from the surviving woman on the island, Maren.
The diary recounts the history of Maren; her marriage and relocation to Smuttynose; the struggles of her new life and her recounting of the events the night of the murders.
The diary gives you a real feel for Maren as an individual and especially what life must have been like for a lonely, foreign fisherman's wife on such a desolate island.As Jean is learning the story of these murders through the diary, she is also experiencing a crisis of her own.
I found the converging stories in this novel fascinating. The movie adaptation is also worth watching.
There is a modern day story told in the first person by a photographer visiting the Isles of Shoals off the coast of New Hampshire.
The more measured voice of the nineteenth century woman does counter the sometimes hysterical tone of the modern day woman and the hysterical tone isn't a bad thing, it's a very good portrayal of someone who isn't quite certain what's going on around her and sometimes can't cope with her own thoughts.Something I have a bit of a problem with is that the nineteenth century murder is a real crime.
Shreve tells the story of the murders of two Norwegian immigrant women on Smuttynose Island off the coast of New Hampshire in the late 19th century.
She explores the 19th Century events in the context of a contemporary photographer's trip to the island to capture the location for a magazine story about the killings.
Shreve alternates sections of this letter, which describes what led up to the murders and what happened on the night they occurred, with the main structure of the book which moves fluidly between the interactions among the family of the photographer and the details of the history of the murder as it was revealed in the trial.
Two different stories were going on and Shreves had me going back and forth and back and forth till at the end my dinner was coming back up in my throat.
Maren, Evan, Karen, and their pilgrimage to Smuttynose Island, off the coast of Maine, was just disheartening.
Evan & Karen arrived only for the last year or so.
Still......This story intertwined with the story of the photographer, Jean, her husband, Edward, and their daughter, Billie (Willemenia).
She, as I said, intertwines two stories so well......and at the end, there is the mention of Honora, from her book "Sea Glass".
The story surrounds a journalist/photographer, who is on a small boat, with her husband, young child, brother-in-law and his girlfriend.
It sounds simple enough.As Jean, the journalist’s, research into the ill-fated family are appearing in her own family, trapped as they are on the small boat in close quarters with one another.
Her husband the poet, whose glory days are gone, he can no longer write.
The younger brother, captain of the small craft, in love with a woman who doesn’t love him.
The approaching storm is a catalyst for a modern-day tragedy.Anita Shreve’s writes these family dramas with a great voice and characterization.
The Weight of Water: Ax Murder, Best Selling Novel, & Tourist Attraction CLICK HERE for BlondeVsBooks full review and details about the true crime Jean Janes is researching the Smuttynose Murders. Bringing along her husband and daughter, she charters her brother-in-law’s boat to take photos and get a feel for the island. She pulls letters, journals, and information about the trial which are archived in the historic city of Portsmouth. Jean steadily unravels the story leading up to the murder
Jean Janes is researching the Smuttynose Murders.
Bringing along her husband and daughter, she charters her brother-in-law’s boat to take photos and get a feel for the island.
Jean steadily unravels the story leading up to the murders, as well as the suspecting infidelity of her husband.Woven into the plot is Maren’s first-hand story.
She describes the passage to the Isles of Shoals, the isolated lifestyle on Smuttynose Island, and finally the gruesome murders.The Weight of Water is eloquently written, tying together the stories of Jean and Maren with fluidity.
Historical factoids and fictional elements are gracefully entwined throughout.
The Smuttynose Murders actually happened, but Shreve’s version adds fictional aspects.
The double story of a woman who travels to an island off Portsmouth NH (Smuttynose--there is a present day brewery of that name in Portsmouth--who knew?) to research the 19c murder of two women on the island, interspersed with the story of the murders by one of the survivors.
She stumbles upon an account of the murders in a mainland library and then steals the diary.
Does not seem like a logical work assignment to me......The 19c woman's diary makes for tedious reading--interesting at first, but the tragic ending (and not to give anything away, there are tragic endings for both narratives) is telegraphed quite early.....
This novel is really two stories in one.
First there is the story of Norwegian immigrants coming to America, and secondly we have the contemporary story of a photographer going to the island where the immigrants lived to photograph and research a 100 year old murder.
A murder of two women took place over 100 years ago on the island of Smutty Nose in the Isles of Shoals.
One hundred years later, Jean does a photography shoot of the island traveling with her husband, Thomas, daughter and her husband's brother and girlfriend.
murders at Smuttynose, a small island off the coast of New Hampshire, with the slow keening of a contemporary marriage.
As a child I grew up sailing and anchoring off the Isles of Shoals, listening to tales of the pirate Bluebeard, treasure and murder; swimming in the deep black waters; and exploring Smuttynose and the Haley house (of which I'm a descendant).
So I found the details of the harsh life at the Shoals fascinating and probably more engaging than if I had just stumbled upon this book without knowing the setting.
Yet the weaving of past and present, the setting, and the characters are engaging.
Love Anita Shreve.Read this for my circle group, luckily it was one of hers I hadn't read.I loved the way the modern and real life events of 1873 are interwoven.It's a chilling novel but I was soon engrossed.The descriptions of the harsh conditions and climate left you feeling chilled!Beautifully written and very compelling.Had me up late last night to finish!
Very dark and shocking in many ways, but beautifully written. I loved the way Shreve wove the two stories together. I did not foresee the ending at all. Kept me turning pages up to the end.

She also goes to a local museum to do research on the incident that involved three women, two of whom are murdered.
At the museum she walks out with the hand-written notes of the survivor.Throughout the book we read the two tales: a Victorian woman and her life on an island where she is alone more than with others as her husband goes to sea to fish and the story of the photographer and her life to that moment when she is on a boat and suspicious that her husband is beginning an affair with his brother's lover.
There are books with different conclusions of what happened on that desolate island.
I was surprised when I finished this book to discover I kind of liked it when there are so many reasons not to.
I liked it though because of the setting, the boat, the tension Shreve built when she wasn't boring me with detail on Norwegian life.
And I suppose because Jean was so flawed.
It was that lack of common sense, the stupid complusive choices that change our lives forever that Shreve was exploring and even if it had bumpy moments, over all I thought she pulled it off.
The sentences, with the words in italics below:"The island is not barren, but it is sere and bleak.""The Isles of Shoals, an archipelago, lie in the Atlantic, ten miles southeast off the New Hampshire coast at Portsmouth."Another quote that stuck out to me -- not a new expression, but a good interpretation, and also something indicative of the immigrant experience: "I have found, in the course of my adult life, that the best cure for melancholy is industry."I don't have much to say about this book -- it was very interesting, but also pretty depressing.
Collecting material from a library, she finds the translated memoirs of Maren Honvet, the woman who escaped after the murders of her sister and sister-in-law.Two stories are told, interwoven often without any space or indication that the subject is changing, except for the tense.
. .(won't spoil).Various other tragedies that occurred at Smuttynose are sprinkled through the present story, often in one or two lines, all adding to the effect of grimness and perhaps even cursedness.The brooding atmosphere of the place adds to the overall impact of horror, things gone terribly wrong.A bit too grim for my taste.
A contemporary story of a woman, her husband and daughter, sailing with his brother and the brother's girlfriend off the coast of New Hampshire and Maine so she can photograph the scene of a murder that took place 150 years earlier.
(The house is the only one on the island.) Those who work in archives or libraries will appreciate how I shuddered as the main character stole a file from an unorganized archival collection--the file which contains the truth about the murders.
I enjoyed the exploration of emotion between the characters in the contemporary story.
