https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/103241.Knockdown
It fits the mold of most Francis novels: the protagonist is in his mid-thirties--a man who has been damaged but who is tough, determined, smart, and who refuses to back down in the face of any threat.
Bad things will happen and, as is almost always the case, there will be an amoral shadowy figure who will be behind the villainy and who will stop at nothing to protect his interests.Our hero in this case is Jonah Dereham, an ex-jockey who has been injured one too many times and can no longer race.
I didn't find Dereham to be a particularly attractive protagonist and the scheme here was not as inventive as the ones you most often find in a Francis novel.
An added bonus for me beside familiarity with plot and characters is the re-reading value of his books.
After a couple of years, the stories mix together into an amorphous cloud, and I am able to revisit the same novel for the third and fourth time, and still enjoy it like the first time I discovered it.In the particular case of Knockdown, the main character is, as usual, a professional jockey, forced to retreat from the racetrack by physical injury, re-qualified into a fringe profession where he proves himself an expert - a bloodstock agent, or horse trading intermediary.
What I love about Dick Francis novels:- horse racing features in all of them in some way*. - his heroes are all human, fallible, and flawed- his characters are all vivid and rounded- his plots are involving, complex, and interesting- his writing is excellent, both in art and in craft- almost without exception**, I collect and re-read his novels* not that I know anything about horses or racing, but he does, and it's an interesting world** not so fond of "Sleigh-Ride", but have read all the others (except the one published in 2006) and re-read most of them.
Jonah buys horses for people. He is one of the only horse traders in England that does not take kickbacks, and for that he is bullied, threatened and tortured in most bizarre ways. In the end, good triumphs over evil but you can't see how it will with all that happens. Lots of rich characters, plot twists and information about the horse world that you never thought you wanted to know, but now that you do, find it interesting. I like that Dick Francis' characters have integrity, and aren't afraid to show it.
Surprisingly good. This is my first Dick Francis book but I doubt it will be my last. Jonah, an ex-jockey turned bloodstock agent (aka horse buyer) gets caught up in the shady word of kickbacks when buying and selling horse to rich people.Pacing of the book is good and alternates between exciting happenings, a bit of romance, and dealing with an alcoholic brother. I didn't think that the brother figure really worked well, but the rest was great.Well within my horse book challenge as the entire thing was about horse sales.
I wasn't in much of a mood to read Dick Francis but picked this one up as I'd left the book I was reading upstairs and wasn't in a mood to go fetch it. But as usual with Francis, a few pages in and I was hooked- almost reading on straight till I was done. Interesting mystery as usual with the exciting racing setting - this time in the rather crooked world of bloodstock agents. It also seemed a lot less violent than some of his - SPOILER though our hero does get pitchforked.
This may be my favourite Dick Francis book. I find Jonah particularly endearing. He's tough and funny and I admire how Mr. Francis can convey the fact that Jonah is in pain all the time through his dialogue. I wish he had given Jonah more books, but I guess one good one was enough!
A re-read. As usual, lots of horses and lots of mystery, but Dick Francis manages to keep each of his books different enough so it doesn't feel like a formula.
Former jockey turned bloodstock agent Jonah Dereham finds out being honest in business can be dangerous to your health. This book kept to the author's usual formula of horse racing, a solid hero, a bit of romance, some suspenseful action scenes, and was a quick, fun read.
Knock-Down is the first Dick Francis novel I have read.
A good friend and English teacher recommended his novels and I now own twenty-one more of his mysteries.
I'm looking forward to comparing the other novels to this one.His writing writing style is descriptive and colorful.
Here is an example."The stables were alight and gone.
Bright orange from end to end.
114) I suspect that Morris is English because he uses a lot of British terminology in his writing that is easily decipherable from the context.It appears that Morris is a prolific and talented writer.
I always call Dick Francis my guilty pleasure because I have a tendency to slight most mysteries as literature.
I'm the staunchest defender of the merits of speculative fiction, but I sell the mystery genre up the creek.Here's the thing: Dick Francis is a good writer.
As usual, he introduces the reader to a facet of the horse racing world without seeming exposition-heavy.
I wouldn't go out of my way to recommend this one over any other - it probably wouldn't be the first one I would point a new reader toward - but it was a good evening's read.
Another great Dick Francis book, great storyline, characters and an excellent insight into what could go on behind the world of horse racing.
3.5 stars. Not one of his best. A little tedious at times. This is the one with the alcoholic brother and the air traffic controller love interest. Protagonist, super cool and likable as always, gets clobbered on head on page 16 early on in this book. Ends on somewhat of a downer. But entertaining all the same.
surprisingly, I was not only entertained, I found the writing to be very neat without too overly descriptive settings or character thoughts that continue for pages. my first Francis book, tho I recall seeing all the horse covers over the decades. I find it difficult to believe that so many stories around horses could be written that are all interesting, but I'm game to try another one sometime.
One of my favorites. It’s a satisfying read and reread.
i am arereading all of his stuff ... it is both nostalgic and satisfying. good solid reads.
Enjoyed this great story so much
One of the greatest. Jonah's a cool dude, Sophie's a cool girl. Everything's engaging.
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
That's what he tried to do when he bought a horse with the unfortunate name of Hearse Puller, for a wealthy American customer who wanted it as a gift for a friend.
Problem was that two thugs wanted the horse more and Jonah ended up with a concussion.
The horse he bought as a replacement was nearly taken from him as well.
Continued threats over the next few weeks tried to break him down to join the ranks of the wicked.
I read this over the course of a weekend so I can't even blame the confusion on stretching it out over a couple weeks.
Consistently enjoyable, I read this in two sittings.
IMHO this is not the best of the Francis books, but still interesting.
This is an interesting look at the business of racehorse buying and selling in Britain, which I don't think Francis covers elsewhere, but otherwise this one is pretty forgettable.As always, Tony Britton does a fine job of narration in the audio version he recorded -- and he produces a believable American accent when it's called for.
A word of warning: the version recorded by Tim Piggott-Smith is actually an abridged version of the book, although that important information does not seem to be well publicized.
I feel the same of the late Dick Francis in mystery novels as George Strait in country music. Both are reliable and professional. In hindsight, I also often have difficulty separating one work from another. Francis is a go-to guy when I've just completed a tome, something heavy, and I'm ready for a quick, satisfying read. I've probably read some where between twelve and twenty Francis mysteries, and they're all about four stars in my estimation. This was among the better ones.Plus, now I know what a bloodstock is.
Finalist 1974 Gold Dagger Award.Racing related thrillers - For a generous commission, ex-prize-winning jockey Jonah Dereham reluctantly agrees to bid on a young steeplechaser on behalf of a wealthy American woman. But his life is thrust into danger immediately following the auction, when he receives a blow to the head by two thugs demanding ownership of the horse. Unfortunately, that's just the beginning--and now Jonah must figure out the high-stakes game being played...before he becomes its next casualty.
This is another Dick Francis book that I don’t remember having read, and I found this one truly unmemorable. I didn’t know that there was such a thing as a mediocre Dick Francis story. Jonah Dereham, a retired jockey, buys horses for wealthy owners but runs up against a group of dealers who think that Jonah is too honest because he won’t take kickbacks. There is also the human interest story of Jonah’s alcoholic brother. Not a favorite.
I am a huge Dick Francis fan and how did I miss this book? He grabs you from the beginning, in this case, an ex-jockey has become an agent in buying horses, bloodstock. Like car dealers, bloodstock agents are notorious for being thought of as crooks.Add in thugs, theft, stolen horses, fire, and an alcoholic brother and you have yourself a rip roaring fast read. Dick Francis never disappoints.
Giving it four stars for keeping me entertained while I was feeling yucky and not wantinh to read anything that had to be worked at. Francis is always fun, finding skulldugery in the British horse world, getting the hero bloodied and nearly killed, and usually finding a pretty girl for him. This book revolves around the race horse auctions, a new world to me. I hope in the real world they're more transparent than in this story.
This is the second audiobook by Dick Francis that was not complete. GRRR. I have the book ordered from the library so that I can finish up this weekend. Update - I checked the book and the audio book was complete - but the abridgement meant I had missed a plot point. I know who did it and why....
A typical Dick Francis story of evil doers at the racetrack. The writing style in this book is slightly off the classic DF standard and the insertion of unnecessary profanity seems very out of place for a DF book (perhaps the co-author trying to add his mark to the story???). A good read none-the-less.
quote (wikipedia)Richard Stanley "Dick" Francis CBE (31 October 1920 – 14 February 2010) was a Welsh[1:] horse racing crime writer and retired jockey.[2:][3:][4:]Contents [hide:]Francis was born in Pembrokeshire, Wales. Some sources report his birthplace as the inland town of Lawrenny, but at least two of his obituaries stated his birthplace as the costal town of Tenby.[5:][6:]
