https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/398062.The_Sumerians
This was a far more complex civilization than people believed possible 5000 years ago.The Sumerians did seem to be a contentious people who seemed to favor acerbic debate, at least from some of the works were deciphered.Moreover, here is the true glory of the Sumerian civilization and what kept it from being completely lost to the world: they wrote out everything from lists of the natural world to copies of essays, myths, proclamations, and laws.
Neredeyse 5000 yıl önceki bir ilkokul öğrencisinin tabletlerini (şimdiki fişlerini diyelim) okumak insana buruk ve düşünceli bir mutluluk veriyor..
Not all historical source material is "curt and lifeless" though, as one source of information is the royal correspondence between rulers and officials, letters that can reveal motives, rivalries, and intrigue.As far as history itself the reader learns that two of the truly ancient Sumerian rulers were deified (Dumuzi, a deity whose worship would have profound influences in Judaism and in Greek mythology, and Gilgamesh, the "supreme hero of Sumerian myth and legend," his deeds written and rewritten not only in Sumerian but also in other languages), and that Sargon the Great was the conqueror that finally brought about the end of the Sumerian people as "an identifiable political and ethnic entity" and began the "Semitization of Sumer."Chapter three looked at life in the Sumerian city.
I have had this book for a very long time and mainly used it for reference, so this was the first time I actually read the whole thing through.
There is source material used throughout the book to great advantage and I would say that the material used in the chapter on Education was the best, which is odd because one would think that it would be a boring chapter, it literally had me nearly falling out of the chair laughing because I am old enough to be able to identify with the students situtation, i.e., being beat in school for wrongdoings.
Still an important book even after nearly 50 years in print so make sure you have it!
I don't like most the reviews I am reading here on goodreads for Samuel Noah Kramer's "The Sumerians: Their History, Culture, and Character".
Chapter one deals with history of the modern study of the Sumerians.
It also goes into the history of the decipherment of Sumerian writing.
Chapter two was a short overview of Sumerian political history.
Kramer goes into specific detail about the Sumerian culture.
He discusses Sumerian cities, households, professions, standards, calenders, medicine and other cultural practices.
Chapter seven discusses the Sumerian's character.
Kramer goes into detail on the many way the Sumerian have left their cultural mark on the world today.
Four stars for ease of read and summarizing of inscriptions so that those who aren't full blown scholars can understand what they mean, while including the inscription for those of us who are more than casually interested and want to make our own inferences of the texts.
What you need to know is that by reading this volume you WILL have a strong understanding of Sumerian culture.
At the time of print, there was a great volume of material (clay tablets, inscribed stones and pottery) that had been discovered though not translated and studied yet.
But I was annoyed by the author, who seemed awfully full of himself, always smugly announcing that he was about to include a translation which had never been published before, or that this was the first time one of his ideas had been shared with the public.
But in spite of all of that, I now know things I didn't know before, so it wasn't a waste of time.
I plan to read a more recent book on Sumerian civilisation to see how things have changed in 40+ years.
First I wanted to give this 5 stars, because it is a very interesting book, and not dry or academical at all. But I felt the author relied heavily on quotation (of Sumerian literature), I feel the matter could have been much more lively if he had theorized more. Still, a hugely entertaining, good book on Sumer. I recommend it to my fellow amateur historians here on GR. You know who you are. ;)
At over 50 years since this book was published, it should come as no surprise whatsoever that a considerable amount of what Kramer discusses in this book is out of date and has been overturned by later discoveries and research into the ancient Sumerians.
For that reason alone, I wouldn’t recommend it to newcomers to the subject.
However, I myself read it as a kind of background primer, seeing how study of this ancient society began in its infancy and comparing it to what we know today.
Recommended with the caveat that the reader should be aware of the age of the text.
After Snow Crash, I wanted to read up on the Sumerians, and so started looking for a good book available on the Kindle.
This isn't to say that there aren't any newer paper books available, but Kramer's work seems to still be almost the leading edge of Sumerian knowledge.
This book was very informative.
You can tell this was written by a scholar and not a professional author as certain pet phrases tend to pop up a lot, but over all, this book was informative, but not so difficult to read as to make it not enjoyable.
ilk okuduğum Noah Kramer kitabı benim için hayal kırıklığıydı umarım aynı şeyi yaşamam. muhtemel büyük atalarım olan sümerlerden beni soğutmaması dileğiyle..olmadı kendimi Muazzez İlmiye Çığ'ın kollarına bırakacağım.
This is undoubtedly a must-read for Ancient Near East enthusiasts, although it can still appeal to a more layman audience. The narrative style keeps the reader's interest piqued throughout. In addition to describing the story of the civilization in an engaging style, the author also delves into archaeological evidence and reasoning behind his reconstruction of Sumerian history and hence caters to those readers that crave detail. Admittedly, the book is a bit dated and hence does not take into account the latest developments in Sumerology (post 1980s), but still remains largely relevant.
Let's do our best not to notice the elephant in the room, because we must do all our best not to notice the elephant! When overwhelming data points at numerous similarities between Aratta and Ararat [Արարատ, Kingdom of Ararat, Mount Ararat], we should disregard this with "academic eloquence" and search Aratta in "Alaska or French Polynesia".
CoolBest book in my lifetime,author narrated very clearly and anyone can able to understand easily... One of the best author Rowling hats off
Informative abd easy to follow. Good book to start on the journey to Sumer.
Sümerler hakkında epeyce ayrıntılı bilgi edinebileceğiniz bir eser.Toplum yapıları,inanışları,kültürleri vb birçok konuda fazlaca bilgi içeriyor.
A great read about the Sumerians, with a very detailed appendix in the end
fefeegrfrgrggergreg
In fact, this will be a very short review, as all I can say is: if you're the least bit interested in the Sumerians read it!The one critique I can give of this book is that Kramer is rather .
This vilifying characterization of the Queen of Heaven and Earth, the Lady of Many Me, can even verge into an apparent misogyny, particularly as she is far and above the most mentioned female in the book.
Before anyone accuses me of saying something I'm not, please recall that Sam Kramer collaborated with feminist storyteller Dianne Wolkstein on _Inanna, Queen of Heaven_.
For me, the text was a bit heavy on translations of cuneiform tablets but otherwise it provides an informative overview of what is believed to be among the first advanced human civilizations on earth.
The historical narrative is pieced together from archaeological evidence, including contemporaneous writings of scribes who worked in schools, temples, and palaces.
One clear conclusion to be drawn from translations of vitriolic diatribes (e.g. my father has more prestige than your father, you are bad looking and no one can read what you write on tablets, etc) is that many of the features of modern culture that we lament are not very new and are likely not to be transient.
I loved this book. It's a very thorough look at the Sumerians and their culture. The author went on archaeological digs and studied documents for a good chunk of his life, and his knowledge definitely shows. It's fascinating to see how much we have already learned of a culture that no one knew existed for a very long time. It's also interesting to see the impact Sumer had on the surrounding cultures of the Near East and Middle East. It's a good in-depth book on one of the first civilizations in history.
For anyone interested in the people who invented writing and built the first cities over 5000 years ago then this is a good place to start a long and enlightening learning experience. This book is unique because it was written by the eminent Sumerian scholar Samuel Noah Kramer who was there when many of the first stories ever written were translated into English. Its not fair to say that we have moved on since Kramer because the sad truth is we haven't moved on very far from the golden age of Sumerian scholarship in which Kramer was a leader.
A fast-paced, engaging and exciting history of the Sumerians. I read this in the late 80s as part of anthropology minor and turned to it in 2016 more for the Sumerian poetry. I enjoyed the book but felt at times the author made leaps he couldn't justify. I will keep this book for his wealth of translations and information. A good reference though it is showing its age today.
Sekiz bölümden oluşan kitap, tabletlerin ve dilin çözülme hikayesinden, Sümer şehirlerinde idari yapı, eğitim, teoloji gibi birçok konuya değiniyor, bazı bölümler oldukça monoton, bilhassa tabletlerde anlatılan hikaye ve efsanelerin anlaşılması için, bu kitaptan önce yazarın Sümer Mitolojisi kitabını okumak ilgili bölümleri anlamayı kolaylaştırabilir. Bunun dışında iyi bir giriş kitabı.
I read this because Will Durant's chapter on Sumer was weak. (Durant can be forgiven, because in 1930 it was impossible to know much of what Kramer knows about Sumer.) This was a great read-- phenomenally informative, and well organized. But dense. Probably requires two readings.
Many complain that dated-ness of this book being published in the 60's. Ultimately the reader is still offered a wealth of information that I found extremely interesting and prepared me for a much more complete understanding of Sumerian mythos and the Epic of Gilgamesh.
Unfortunately I forgot to check the date of publication, 1960 so I guess Sumerian scholarship has moved on quite a bit. Still a very interesting account of what is considered or was considered at the time to be the oldest known literate civilization
Fascinating!A must read for a better understanding and perspective of the origins of civilization. I found the Appendices interesting, particularly the laws and farmers instructions.
Cody cu xyxyxycyCoccyx y y h h h h r e,r f th j jr r th j j . R, e,r err :) k
This. Book. Is. A. Little. Odd. But. I. Like. It
