https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7996.Redwall
you know what was the best part of these books?
what else was there to do in middle school?anyway, the best part of these books was brian's description of food.
it didn't just make you hungry, it made you crave weird ass things that nobody would ever dream about eating in middle school.
they fight a lot of little battles until one major battle which the good guys almost lose until, when all hope is lost, a giant contingent of allies created on the preceding journey show up to conquer evil: together.still, i always finished satisfied.
and a little hungry.
2.0 stars. Now I admit upfront that YA fantasy is somewhat starting to lose its appeal to me, making me a harsher critic of what I think are weak efforts. At the same time, I still really enjoy the compelling, higher end stuff. Unfortunately, THIS A'INT IT!! YA is one thing, but I found this to be the “Y” est of YA fantasy books that I have read in quite a while. It was just too young. Despite the fact that the book is fairly well written and decently paced, I found the plot itself to just be c
This is your VERY standard, cookie-cutter “coming of age” heroic quest fantasy tale BUT with the amazingly original and novel twist of....are you ready for this....rather than human characters, the story is populated by MICE and other cute, mostly furry animals that just think and act human.
It just lacked any sense of originality beyond trying to be a sweeter, kid-friendly adventure verson of "Animal Farm."Now on the positive side, it is a fairly short book and I think that young children (or heavily medicated adults) may still enjoy it.
Jacques centers the plot around Cluny the Scourge's days-long siege of Redwall Abbey and uses this conflict to introduce some fairly standard fantasy tropes to young readers unfamiliar with the genre.
But these are minor complaints in a sea of other positives that makes it them very easy to overlook.I love finding Middle Grade series that would speak to young boys in particular, as I think they are an oft-neglected demographic in the reading world.
While the action, characters and plot movement in this series is sure to entertain most readers in any demographic, I think Matthias is a wonderful role model for young male readers in particular.
Yea, verily, a young mouse yclept Matthias doth live peacefully in the walled city of Redwall, wherein reside all manner of goodhearted animals like mice, badgers, squirrels, etc.
Mayhap Matthias will rise to the occasion and become the heroic warrior that will save his people animals in their time of greatest need!This is a fairly enjoyable middle grade/YA medieval fantasy in a world populated entirely by mice, rats and other woodland creatures, with nary a human in sight.So I was maybe a little too old for this one when I read it; it's more for the younger teens and tweens.
This was pretty much the book that got me hooked on reading because I used to hate it.
I liked it so much that when the cartoon was over I had to know more about this amazing world, but I didn't have a way of watching the other movies so I was forced to do something I hated, reading.
I got a copy of Redwall and I read it, and I read the next one, and the next one, and the next and the next one and so on.
The good guys (mice, squirrels, etc.) are really good people, while the bad guy is a whisker-twirling nasty fellow.
The other characterizations are equally simple -- it's not hard to figure out who to cheer for in this story, which plays out as a medieval siege story, combined with a quest for a practically magical weapon for the good guys to use against the bad guy and his army of rats, weasels, stoats.I enjoyed the story -- sometimes it's nice to read something where motives and actions are easy to understand, and it's obvious who to cheer for.
Seriously: I love a good yarn about talking animals as much as the next person, but I do expect some basic level of believability, maybe a good character or two...
Are they mice and rats living clandestine in a human-built world?
If so, where are the humans?
Are they human-sized rodents in a people-free world?
If I'd been in the least attracted by the dialog, characters, or storyline this would have been easy enough to ignore, but as it was, I barely made it through and crossed the rest of the series off of my "To Read" list.
Uh. Upon rereading, this entire book is just bad guys getting slaughtered in very gruesome ways. And usually ended with a cheerful little exclamation point. Kinda chilling.
I mentioned this would possibly be a good story for LOTR fans, because of the focus on the details of battle without it feeling boring or repetitive, and also because the book is full of characters and told from various points of view but doesn't feel confused but does feel like you get to know each character.I'm very curious to read more of the Redwall series, and am so happy to finally have read a Brian Jacques book and met Matthias and Basil and Silent Sam;)BOOK TWO (12/15/2007)Alright!
Now, for those of you who read this book and liked it, I have absolutely no problem with that.
There are NO good foxes in the ENTIRE series, even though there is such a thing as a good cat.
If you've read my profile, you know that foxes are my favorite animals of all time (okay, maybe not that much, but I still like them a lot), and reading these books were pure torture to me!
If you don't like foxes as much as I do, or in this case, ferrets, rats, weasels, cats, and stoats, I would highly suggest this book to you, because you'll probably like it, unlike me.
When I was in Elementary School I LOVED REDWALL!
Redwall was the book that got me into reading when I was a kid.
Redwall!
I loved Matthias.
If the book I read wasn't as good as Redwall, I tossed it.
In his honor, I bought every one of his books in hardcover, and I read them all again.
Redwall is magic.
If you have not read these books you need to.
If you are a teacher reading this, take The Little Prince off your list, that you've been reading for ten years in a row, and have your students read Redwall.
They will love it!
They will love it!
As an adult, I found this book ok; it was the standard fantasy cliches that abound without anything especially new that caught my interest. However, since this was a bedtime story for my kids, I want to add that they enjoyed it more and would probably have said it was at least 3 stars if not 4.
These are just some of the questions I pondered as I read through this snooze fest.This book is quite literally a regular mouse picking up a tiny little sword, and fighting various things(snakes, rats, my will to live!).
Now if the image of a little mouse holding a tiny sword doesn't want to make you retch at the absurd "oh how cute" nature of the story, then I don't know what will.I just can't recommend this book, even to kids.
This was a pretty good read. When Redwall abbey is under attack by cluny the scourge and his horde of vicious rats, it is up to a young mouse named Mathias and the other woodland creatures to stop them. Will they succeed? Be sure to read this book and find out. I reccomend this book to fans of fantasy and ya books. Definitely check it out.
I've now read a classic and I can agree with Chris that one should read the "real thing" as well as the graphic novel adaptation.
The action was satisfying and helped balance some of the potential cutesyness (a mouse may drink berry juice out of an acorn cup, but soon a rat will be speared with an arrow).
suspend disbelief!"), and at first I had a hard time believing in Matthias's seemingly instant transformation from bumbling apprentice to fierce warrior.
I'm not sure if I will pursue the rest of the series; it may be time to read a "Warriors" book while I'm still in Animal Mode.
It’s the rare book that my sons have recommended to me...the rare book whose author I have actually met and heard speak and adored...the rare book that is on hundreds of Must-Read lists...the rare book that has all these things going for it and yet remains on my TBR heap.I was finally motivated to pull it out of the pile and give it a thorough read when my 1001 Children’s Books list chose it for a group read in February.Why, why, why, I thought as I finished the last page, why didn’t I read this one with my sons?
It’s a story that will be fabulous as a readaloud with your children, even if they are too old to actually sit in your lap.
On the other hand, Julian the cat and Asmodeus the snake are the proper proportions and one cart with a horse can carry Cluny's whole army, so I could never get a real handle on how the characters were supposed to look in relation to each other.Speaking of the horse and cart, who built it?
I suspect I'm supposed to just not think about it that much, honestly.Worse than that, and a lot more obvious now that I'm older, is the extreme black-and-white moral essentialism that fills the book.
Well, Cluny goes insane, but I'm not sure that counts as a character arc.I am obviously no longer the audience for these books.
I read this 7 or 8 years ago and thought I'd re-read it to see if I like it any better (since everyone seems to love this book).It is a good book that I didn't enjoy all that much.I think there are children's book and YA books that can be enjoyed equally by children and by adults but I don't think this is one of them.
I think this is a 5 star book for a 12 year old but it just doesn't do that much for me.
Via Book Reviews by Niki Hawkes at www.nikihawkes.comIf I could say one thing about Jacques, it’s that he was a master storyteller!
His books take you on grand adventures that rival the best fantasy novels out there.
I saw one in the library, and started reading smaller books with the hopes of working my way up to one someday.
These are excellent adventures for children, and I’m a living example that they encourage literacy at young ages.
As an adult I still love them, and am long overdue for another reread!Word of warning: do not read these books if you are hungry… you’ll see.by Niki Hawkes

Matthias, a brave mouse, goes on quest to find the sword of Martin The Warrior, who is the symbol that Redwall look up to while facing Cluny.
Matthias braves many dangers and meets quite a few interesting characters along the way.I enjoyed every bit of this tale, though I have to admit, I needed time to wrap my head around the fact that most of this story is happening on a small scale of things, you know, what with mice and rats and all being the mail characters.
I really enjoyed reading this, I imagine if I read this earlier in my life I would have loved it but it was still a solid 3.5 for me.
I haven't gone back to this first book in a while but I do know that my last summation was that it is a decent enjoyable read for children (and adults) but compared to other books in the series it lacks.I do love the fact that Brian Jacques as a storyteller went out to tell a story using talking European animals as his characters.
After book eight however Jacques seemed to run out of fresh ideas and kept his Redwall storyline going by adding different animal characters as villains and heroes knowing that he would still sell his stories.
This was my first Brian Jacques book, and certainly not the last one.
As the first book in the series, Redwall does an amazing job pulling the reader in.
There were a few moments where I felt the book lost steam, but never for long enough to make me want to give up reading.
Jacques' language is elaborate and colorful, his sentences sharp, and the storyline keeps unfolding in a way that makes the reader look forward to what what happens next.
While this is an age-old story of good versus evil, it is done in a rather refreshing way.
A distinctly children's book, with a simplified children's plot, simplified children's characters, and a simplified children's theme.
If you focus on the plot and don't think the word "nuance", it can be quite enjoyable.But alas, I am an adult, and I couldn't help trying to figure out the scale of the book in a literal sense.
Are the mice supposed to be mice sized in a largely human world, a la Disney animated movies?
Or are they supposed to be human sized in a world without humans a la furries (sans the sex)?
Reading the books in this series when I was a child was a complete joy, and I'm happy that they're still just as special now!I just cant resist talking animals...
after reading a lot of extremely well-written books this year and practicing critical reading during the past two semesters, it is strange to reread this favorite and notice that it's actually not that well-written. but i love it and will continue to reread it because it has so much heart and it means so much to me. i am who i am because of matthias the warrior.
Matthias is a novice monk at Redwall Abbey, a sanctuary built by the mice of long ago from the red sandstone of a nearby quarry.
Every mouse of Redwall Abbey has taken a solemn oath to never harm another living creature, unless it is an enemy seeking to harm the Order by violence.
I think I’ll read more of this middle-grade series for the sheer joy of it.Jacques began writing the story to entertain children at a hospital for the blind.
It is a perfect book to read aloud.The audio book is performed by a full cast of actors who voice the various characters, but features Brian Jacques as the narrator.
After I finished this book my overall impression wasn't very good.
But in retrospect I think that was mostly due to the fact that it's written for a ten-year-old audience.
There's nothing wrong with the book when viewed as a kid's book.
The writing is competent, and the story is exciting and interesting enough to keep a ten-year-old engaged.
I imagine there are a lot of adults who are fans of this book, just like there are plenty of adult Harry Potter fans (though I didn't enjoy this one as much as Harry Potter).
But while I readily recommend this book for kids, I can't really rationalize recommending it for adults.
I think I got to Book Three in this series when I was in elementary school, and I remember mostly liking these books when I wasn't giggling at the image of mice and chipmunks weilding tiny swords. But in all honesty, I'm only adding this review so I can post this xkcd comic I just stumbled across: http://xkcd.com/370/
