https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/892309.Doctor_Sally
Sometimes one P.G. Wodehouse is just not enough.
Having finished, and thoroughly enjoyed, A Pelican at Blandings (1969) I moved straight on to Doctor Sally (1932).Doctor Sally is a mere 130 pages and is a slight tale.
It's not up to the dizzy heights of much of P.G. Wodehouse's work but it is still a charming and diverting read.
The book opens with the arrival of a golf ball on the green at the 18th hole at Bingley-on-Sea after a mere two strokes.
The expert golf player is the eponymous Dr Sally Smith, a beautiful physician.
3.5*A fun, quick read.
Another wonderfully witty Wodehouse!
A novella about Bill Bannister falling head over heels for an American golfer who also is a doctor. However, Doctor Smith resists Bill because she wants to fall in love with a hard worker and she thinks Bill is a lazy bumbler.
I was pleased to see goodreads included as different covers the one with 2/6 on the cover (showing its age)the one I purchased from an second hand online bookstore.Like the Jeeves and Wooster books there is a lot of comic dialogue between the characters which results into misunderstandings and farce.Sally an American doctor who is good at golf is a great character and the question remains throughout this short novel, will Bill Banister mange to get this particular girl?The book has the usual collection of upper class toffs which populate Wodehouse's mind, but here in Doctor Sally he shows they can be hardworking also, as in the last chapter Sally and Bill discuss the milking of cows.
Incredibly light and fluffy, even for Wodehouse, and rather underdone, but irresistibly adorable. The final pages in particular were great.
This is the first book of PG Woodehouse which i've ever read and it took me just a few hours to finish. It was really amazing to read. I found Bill the banister very confused throughout the book! And then his conversation with Dr. Sally! It was so funny! That I fell of my bed many times laughing.Now that I have started liking PG Woodehouse, I would go for more! =D
Wodehouse is a new discovery for me and his novels are fun, light, larks with excellent humor and a romping use of the English language.
This might be the weakest Wodehouse book I've read (with The Old Reliable as the possible exception), being only mildly funny at points, and even somewhat boring at others.
Also, I'll have it handy as defense exhibit B should anyone dare accuse me of having an uncritically blind devotion this author.
"I'll have you know that I mildly disliked The Old Reliable, and thought Doctor Sally was a little bland and uninspired.
How's that for criticism?" At which point my accuser will feel that I have an amazingly objective mind, and thereon regard every one of my opinions as having been arrived at by honest, clear-eyed discernment.
Questa edizione italiana raccoglie il romanzo breve omonimo del 1932 con l'aggiunta di alcuni racconti tratti da "The Man Upstairs", giusto per arrivare ad un adeguato numero di pagine.Il "Doctor Sally", con la sua storia sfrondata dalle divagazione consuete nel Wodehouse più conosciuto, si riduce in definitiva ad una commedia rosa con un certo gusto per il paradosso, non priva di quadri interessanti e di battute ben riuscite.Il trovarsi di fronte invece l'autore che si mette alla prova nel racconto breve, privo di qualsiasi serialità e dei suoi consueti personaggi, è una piacevole scoperta.
A short novel by wodehouse but nonetheless held all the charms of his writing.
I just liked the pace at which the story moved, the writing was very much similar to wodehouse other books where confusions render among lovers, uncles or aunts acting as Cupid’s trying to bring sundered lovers together.Would recommend this book to anyone looking for light humour reading.
The whole book is around 120 pages and can be easily finished in 2 days.I found the character of Lottie and lord tidmouth very hilarious and aptly supporting the narrativeGo for it and I am sure you will enjoy this light read
This is one of PGW's breeziest and shortest novels. It was originally a magazine serial, and has appeared in story collections, but it works fine on its own (only 130 pages in the standard format). It's very much like a stage musical without the songs: lots of snappy dialog, and romance that begins badly but gets sorted by the end. Trigger warning for those who will get a case of the vapours when men express doubts that a woman can be a doctor! Everyone else will enjoy this quick, farcical read.
Not the best book I have read, but it was quick, easy and short. I probably could have finished in a few hours, had it captured my attention more. May give one more Wodehouse a try, but not expecting a lot
En av Wodehouse’s svakeste, etter min mening. Ikke at det ikke fremdeles gjør den bedre enn det meste annet.
Slightly less complicated than some Wodehouse plots, but with all the usual hallmarks of characters and verbal dexterity.
Really good and funny story
a charming if dated read
Delightful, if ever so slightly underdone.
A novelisation of Wodehouse’s 1927 play ‘Good Morning, Bill’, this is a very light and forgettable read with stagey dialogue that doesn’t work very well.
A short novel based on Wodehouse's own 1927 play, GOOD MORNING, BILL (in turn adapted from Ladislaus Fodor's Hungarian farce). It's very slight stuff that betrays its stage origins, but is never-the-less pleasantly entertaining. A minor work for the great author.
In the second act we are at Bill’s country seat where Bill has got Doctor Sally down under the false pretence of being ill whilst Sir Hugo has invited Lottie to illustrate how she would be unhappy in the rural environment.The plot comes off in the way we would expect and although driven by some of Wodehouse’s crisper dialogue it doesn’t work as a novel and should certainly not be tackled as an introduction to the masters work.
Like most people I imagine, I got started on Wodehouse with the Jeeves books and over the past year I've branched out to read a couple of the Blandings novels, The Luck of the Bodkins and - most recently - Laughing Gas. I've enjoyed everything I've read by the man, many of his books to the point of weeping with laughter, but sadly Doctor Sally is very definitely a minor work in the Wodehouse canon.It's a short (120 pages, probably about 4 hours reading time total) little romantic farce which takes place initially at a golf resort before moving to a country estate.
This book was published in 1932 and it is an adaptation of Wodehouse's play, "Good Morning, Bill".
This material reads like a play and I think that it actually would have been more effective on the stage than on the page.
In fact, I didn't realize that this was an adapted play when I was reading, but in my mind, I was seeing it as a play.
What saves the material is the genius of P.G. Wodehouse's dialogue and the zany situations that he creates.
Sally, however, views Bill as a charming, wealthy, leech on society which is more than she can tolerate during those depression years.
This one is very funny. Written according to the typical Wodehouse formula: put several (funny) characters together, create some misunderstandings and than solve it. I read the whole book with a smile.
This was my first P.G. Wodehouse read..and I was hooked on to his style forever.Sally is a smart, competent Doctor by profession and beautiful too, and Bill Banister, heir of a country manor house, can't help himself getting tangled over her all over the place.
Sally however, dosen't take him too highly, thinking of him as a rich slacker and being averse to a honest day's work.Adding to her impression of him is the fact that Bill is engaged to his best friend Lord "Squiffy" Tidmouth's ex-wife, Lottie Higginbotham.
G. Wodehouse I have read.
I read them all so long ago and enjoyed them so much that I have given them all 5 stars.
As I re-read them I will adjust the stars accordingly, if necessary, and add a proper review.When I first discovered P.
I'm sure that through this great site I will joyfully find at least a few I have not read, and be able to track them down.My records only began in 1982, so I do not have a note of any I read before then.
I’m sure I will enjoy re-reading them.
I had no idea that PG Wodehouse had written a book with a woman doctor as heroine.
When I started it, I was a little apprehensive - what would he do with a female doctor?
Sally is fabulous (and an excellent doctor), and the book as a whole is marvellous, like good champagne just frothing over the edge of a proper champagne glass (flutes can get lost.
Sorry - that's irrelevant to the book - but still).
If you're feeling down and would like something funny and silly and a tad escapist, then go for this.
perhaps writing like this should, too.
Some great Wodehouse dialogue and setpieces with a welcome, unexpectedly PG or maybe even PG-13 relationship with sex, and a terrific lead in Doctor Sally Smith.
There are too many jokes in the beginning of the book that boil down to "A lady doctor?!?"2.
Most troublesome: the love interest for Sally is terrible.
Not only is he a fairly boring loser (no, the last-second attempt to demonstrate he's not completely worthless is neither enough nor 100% convincing), he is depraved enough to threaten to rape Sally if she won't marry him.
Why am I supposed to root for him?Flawed, but still Wodehouse.
A friend passed this on to me after I had my accident...and I hadn't gotten to it...so during a bout with the flu...a light quick read looked inviting. I guess I am just not much a PG Wodehouse fan. I have tried a few times...the dialogue is witty and fun.... but much better suited for a play I think (as I guess this story was originally). For me, not enough time to breathe between all the discourse.
'Doctor Sally' is a very slim, lightweight story, written in 1932 (though in the edition I read it says it was originally published as a play in 1927, which it's probably more suited to). But it's by P G Wodehouse and it's therefore a delight to spend a couple of hours with his characters, having a bit of a chuckle and, after the misunderstandings have been cleared up, feeling that all's right with the world. As 'Squiffy' Tidmouth would say, 'Poo-boop-a-doop.
