https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40389527-the-woman-in-the-window
Who knows what goes on in a family? Okay, I really don't want to misrepresent this book: The Woman in the Window is a pulpy, fast-paced popcorn thriller. It's not mindblowing or groundbreaking, but it is pageturning goodness. And it was exactly what I needed to get lost in right now.The premise is a little bit of The Girl on the Train and a little bit of The Woman in Cabin 10 (what is it with these girl/woman/wife titles?!), with an unreliable narrator, faulty memories, alcoholism, and the auth
My need to know what would happen kept me turning pages late into the night until I was physically incapable of keeping my eyes open a moment longer.The Woman in the Window treats a rather obvious plot element as a spoiler for most of the book, so I'll play coy too.
She makes for a pretty great unreliable narrator, and it is easy to feel her frustration when she can't even be sure herself if what she says is completely true.I also really liked how the author included Anna's passion for classic thriller movies.
I'm surprised that I actually finished this novel because my patience was gone, girl.
It’s been awhile since I’ve read a psychological suspense thriller —-a surprise gift in the mail.
which I appreciate.....I never thought Anna was looking out her window - with her camera in hand - just to be creepy.
It’s hard to explain, but it was a ‘feeling’ I had....yet she did look through neighbors windows.....There was one surprise that was ‘really’ big for me — so much so -that I said to myself: “HOT DAMN, how do you like those crackers”?
To a neighbor.....The 5 Story house that Anna lives in creates a great atmosphere.....Anna’s pill poppin wine drinking throughout didn’t alter my basic impression of Anna.
The Woman In The Window is an absolutely amazing debut mystery-thriller.
I cannot recommend it enough.CW: agoraphobia, anxiety, depression, substance abuse/alcoholism, murder, death, griefMy favorite part of this novel is the writing style.
It is slow paced to start, but not at all dragging and still enjoyable.But of course, one of the absolute best aspects of the book is the immaculate plot.
I’m not the most prolific reader when it comes to thrillers, but The Woman In The Window is one of my favorites that I have ever read.
This book was absolutely amazing.
I don't know if this is an unpopular opinion but I'm getting a bit tired of reading mysteries where the main female character is an alcoholic.
They just have to not do anything stupid (racism, sexism...), be entertaining and have twists I don't see coming.In this book, you're following a psychologist who went through something traumatic that left her agoraphobe and...
Sadly I saw the twists coming and some parts towards the end just didn't feel right.However, I definitely felt like staying home and drinking...
maybe?If you're looking for what others have described as a "popcorn read" then this might be it for you!
Agoraphobia usually involves fear of crowds, bridges, or of being outside alone." -NIHFor the past 10 months Anna has been trapped inside the four walls she calls home.
Not the home owners, not even the police!Anna begins to question if it’s a side effect of her medication, or is there a reason no one wants to believe her.This book started out very slow for me.
A.J. Finn had me questioning everyone from Anna herself to a grandmother in Montana!
Some of the twists were predictable - but that didn’t take away from my enjoyment.
3 STARSYou don't know how happy I was to get my greedy little paws on both the audio and Kindle versions of THE WOMAN IN THE WINDOW.
In contrast, a similar book, The Girl on the Train is sheer perfection on audio.
You know how much I love my unreliable narrators and our girl, Anna, is a doozy.
We can't trust Anna's narration because she is depressed and suffering from a traumatic event.
It has an interesting, yet heavily borrowed upon plot and there are a couple of major twists.
One evening, as Anna is watching the Russell house she sees something she’s was never meant to see, something horrible… and it sends her life into a tailspin.Did Anna really see what she thinks she did or is it possible she was wrong?
I was a bit confused at times and although I eventually warmed up to the story and to Anna, it did take longer than I expected.
I did enjoy the last part of the book so I am glad that I didn’t stop reading.There were some very good twists, though I did figure out a few things ahead of time.
because i have emerged from two weeks of debilitating illness physically enfeebled, but with a new power, like john smith in The Dead Zone - i can now call all of the twists.
in fact, it’s kind of like a little magic went out of the world.
that’s not to say i didn’t enjoy this book - it’s a chewy psychological thriller with a good instinct for pacing and a juicy, if familiar, premise.
and even the reveal/withhold ratio is well-maintained, for those of you whose high fevers and persistent hacking coughs have not left you with advanced sensory perception.it’s a microwave popcorn book - fast and satisfying and buttery-slick, with SO!
** Possible mild spoilers **Yet another super-hyped 'psychological thriller' which seems to think readers are innocents new to the genre...
Here we have the traumatised, agoraphobic woman on a self-destructive binge of booze and pills keeping watch over her new neighbours and spotting a murder which the police claim never happened.
And how many times have we now seen the protagonist's traumatic secret used in other books?
If you read regularly in the genre, this is a hokey tale that you'll have seen before.
Anna, you see, is an agoraphobic, and cannot step outside her home, she has lived like this for 10 months after a mystery trauma blew apart her world.
Anna gets her dose of the outside world by people watching, observing the lives of her neighbours, like the Millers, through her window with her camera.
A new family moves in directly opposite Anna, Alastair and Jane Russell with their son, Ethan.
One day she observes a shocking event taking place in the Russells home.
As Anna's paranoia levels reach sky high, she finds herself in increasing danger.
4.5 stars!! Okay, the hype this book is getting is warranted. I usually stink at guessing the outcome of a mysterious plot, the “who done it” but I was spot on this time (yes!) and that still didn’t deter me from loving this book. The ending? CRAZY!!! P.S. Loved all the movie references!!
3.5 Anna Fox, now living alone in her three story brownstone, well alone that is except for Daniel, her basement tenant.
Her main activities were watching Black and White movies from old, and peering into the lives of her neighbors.
It is while peering through one of these windows, that she believes she is witnessing a dangerous incident.
An updated take on the movie, Rear Window, perhaps.
Did love the ode to the old movies though, and as I said it did draw me in, there were just a few things I could not overlook.ARC from Netgalley.
I'm between 3.5 and 4 stars.Paranoia, the destroyerSelf-destroyer, wreck your healthDestroy friends, destroy yourselfThe time device of self-destructionLight the fuse and start eruptionThe Kinks,  Destroyer Reading A.J. Finn's new, much-hyped thriller,  The Woman in the Window , I had lots of paranoia-related songs running through my head (including Garbage's  I Think I'm Paranoid  and the line from Harvey Danger's  Flagpole Sitta  which goes, "Paranoia, paranoia, everybody's coming to get me...
She's seen some pretty interesting things, including the recent afternoon activities of Mrs. Miller, who moved in across the street with her husband."Watching is like nature photography: You don't interfere with the wildlife."When a new family, the Russells, move in directly across the park from her, Anna is quickly transfixed by them.
While I felt like the book borrowed a lot from other thrillers and even some of the old movies Anna watched, the suspense definitely gets under your skin, and you absolutely want to fly through the book to see what the truth really is.
Anna suffers from agoraphobia that keeps her locked in as a prisoner of her own home and of her own mind.
She sloshes around at the bottom of a Merlot bottle like an Olympic drinker.....takin' the gold every time.Day by day she locks into perpetual viewing of old black and white movies including Vertigo and Rear Window.
Such an activity brings the outside world in and gives Anna a bit of control as to when and as to how long she wishes to view their movements.
With her up-close-and-personal camera lens, Anna witnesses something horrendous happening in the Russell's home through that window.
It isn't paranoia if it's really happening...  The Woman in the Window  is intoxicating, dark, and simply unputdownable. AJ Finn's debut novel is placed in current day, gentrified Harlem, New York City, where Dr. Anna Fox spends her day in her five-story townhouse drinking Merlot, spying on her neighbors, and mixing pills to numb her thoughts. She has theories and pseudo-storylines for her neighbors, each one being unique and different in their own way. When she is not photographing and spying o
AJ Finn's debut novel is placed in current day, gentrified Harlem, New York City, where Dr. Anna Fox spends her day in her five-story townhouse drinking Merlot, spying on her neighbors, and mixing pills to numb her thoughts.
When her new neighbors move in across the park from her house, Anna is intrigued at their anonymity.
Anna witnesses something that shouldn't have happened—or did she?I won this ARC in a Goodreads giveaway and literally jumped out of my bed and yelled, "YESSS!!!" I immediately was drawn to the story because let's face it, spending time spying on your neighbors while drinking too much wine sounds like my Friday nights.
Who's that woman in the window?Dr. Anna Fox has spent the past 10 months inside her NY home.
Her home is her safe place and she is too afraid to venture outside her door.
Yet all the clues are set out if you can "catch" them!
Beware that the beginning is a bit confusing and takes awhile to set things in motion, but even with that I couldn't pull myself away from the story.
Very fast read for me!
Not edge of your seat, but more like the pull of a magnet.
Loved this one!Super time reading this one with Traveling sisters!
She can’t leave her home and finds herself obsessed with the “hobby” of keeping tabs on her neighbours by watching them through the many windows in her large house.I liked Anna, but found that after the halfway mark, her paranoia and constant coping mechanisms started to get slightly annoying.
J. Finn, did a fantastic job pulling me into Anna’s world – feeling her terror and contemplating her thoughts, but I feel that some of it became slightly repetitive.I found myself flipping the pages quickly as I was very curious to see how everything would come together in the end.
Dr. Anna Fox used to have a successful life as a mother, wife, and child psychologist, but something happened several months earlier that has given her agoraphobia.
She can have her prescription medications and endless bottles of wine delivered, so she never has to leave her house.
There is also the online community of other people battling agoraphobia.Anna spies on her neighbors, camera in hand, reminiscent of Rear Window, which is the kind of movie she watches endlessly—black-and=white classics with an edge.
People who mix prescription drugs and copious amounts of alcohol rarely are.
I wasn't that impressed with this debut.Dr. Anna Fox lives in her townhome in New York struggling with agoraphobia.
I have seen raving reviews for it but here are some of the issues I had with this one:1) Black and white video obsession (this absolutely drove me insane and honestly this just made it so confusing for me to have random quotes from the movies that the author put in the novel).......
just get to the conclusion already.3) There were some surprises at the end but overall it was lacking BIG time for me.
I'm really torn on this one, because on one hand I was able to see all the twists coming (see Karen Brissette's review for my similar feelings on this), and it was a long book to feel entirely predictable, but on the other it was still a fun, enjoyable novel and I whole heartedly embraced the inclusion of the black and white movies and Alfred Hitchcock favorites that I grew up on.
I felt neutral on the narrator here; she wasn't a long term favorite but she didn't grate on my nerves either.
Eagerly anticipating the author's next work!
BRUH....HOW....WUT......IT IS LITERALLY ONLY A MONTH INTO THE NEW YEAR.All upcoming psychological thrillers will now be held at a higher standard.Gone Girl??? What's that??? Who is she cuz I don't know her.RIP.5 FUCKING STARSTwitter | Bookstagram | Youtube |
This is the setup for this thriller and is all I'm saying about this novel, you must read it to find out what happens.
I enjoyed the novel and experienced many thoughts and emotions while reading it.
At the beginning I thought 'I'd love to spend my days like Anna relaxing at home' UNTIL the main character described the crippling aspect of agoraphobia and how the mental illness has limited her life and the lives of other sufferers like her.
The author did a great job of chronicling the symptoms and thoughts of the main character, Anna's anxiety and powerlessness.
I struggled with the first half of the book, only to be totally drawn in by the end.
I definitely didn’t relate to Anna, but I also had a hard time finding her believable.
The second half of the book is much more engrossing than the first.
The first half of the book is barely a three, the second half is somewhere between four and 4 ½ stars.
But I’m wondering if this would have worked better as a book than as an audiobook.
I heard glimpses of good phrasing, something I always appreciate when I’m reading.
Totally caught me off guard that I'd enjoy this book as much as I did. All the better because I listened to it without any clue as to what it would be about. Some nice turns of phrases and superb tension throughout. Audiobook reader did a great job too.
She spends the rest of her days and nights watching old black-and-white movies on TV, chatting and dispensing advice in an online forum, and spying on her neighbors, all while downing large amounts of Merlot with a concoction of prescription pills.
One of my favorite parts of the story was Anna’s love for old black and white classic movies, such as Rear Window, Gaslight, and Stranger on a Train, etc.
And this reader had an urge to pour a glass of Merlot and watch a Hitchcock movie ;-) There are twists along the way, all revealed at just the right time.
The details of the catastrophe which lead to her agoraphobia are withheld until the end of the book.
There were so many twists and turns; as soon I thought I had it figured out, something would completely change!I enjoyed the shorter chapters with each date listed as the focal point.
Written from Anna's point of view, we closely witness her mental battle with herself.
The book is a beautiful rendition of her struggle to simply survive, especially when her entire world is only her house.
I highly enjoyed this book and would recommend to all readers of psychological thrillers and mysteries!
3.25 Stars* (rounded down).Anna Fox is home bound.
Besides watching old movies, her only other source of entertainment is watching what goes on outside of her windows.
One day, what Anna sees outside of her window blows her mind.
A woman, her neighbor’s wife, who she met a few times before, getting stabbed and falling to the floor.
Anna calls the police.
The Police think Anna is simply a drunk, who isn’t quite herself - and they think she who imagined the whole thing.
Who can Anna turn to?
For Brenda and the sisters in the rapturous murky coulee we were so engrossed in Anna’s mind and figuring out the mystery of her reality that the gloom turned to mist and we were fascinated with this story till the end.
Instead, he shows us just how unreliable Anna’s world was by leaving small clues for us to pick up on but kept us questioning them as to what was really happening until the very end.We all really enjoyed the premise of this book and found the agoraphobia aspect of this novel quite fascinating.
The story reminded me a little of The Girl on the Train (which I thought was ok, but nothing that exciting), however, it is better written and the ending definitely more complex.
I guessed a part of the mystery's solution early on, but without confirmation of my suspicions, I was nonetheless gripped until the end.
It's been a while since a hyped-up thriller/mystery managed to live up to the excitement for me, but this one did and I certainly recommend it to fans of the genre.Find more reviews and bookish fun at http://www.princessandpen.com
