https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/612512.The_Silent_World
Cousteau wrote this book with his friend Frederick Dumas in English (not in his native French).
Cousteau and Emile Gagnan designed, built and tested the first "aqua-lung" in the summer of 1943 off the southern coast of France.
In the opening chapters Cousteau recounts the earliest days of scuba diving with his diving companions Frederic Dumas and Philippe Tailliez.
The aqualung allowed for the first time untethered free-floating extended deep water diving and ushered in the modern era of scuba diving.
Later chapters include excursions diving ship wrecks.From this book developed the film "The Silent World" in 1956 which won an Oscar.
The opening shot of Louis Malle's film version of "The Silent World" tracks a platoon of divers as they descend through blue water; the focus of the shot, however, is not the men themselves, but on the long strings of bubbles emitted by their regulators, and the flares each of them is holding.
What it describes, in this book at least, is a "pure" joy in discovery and movement that divers themselves will readily second - for as Cousteau himself says, "One of the greatest joys of sea bathing, perhaps not realized by many, is that water relieves the everyday burden of gravity."
I was worried the book may be too technical to enjoy, but was pleasantly surprised. Cousteau shared his experience in a manner that was educational and thoroughly enjoyable. I learned so much about the undersea world.
Це перша книга всім відомого Кусто, в ній він розповідає, як все починалося.
Кусто був військовим французьких морських сил і займався випробовуваннями і розробкою апарата, який би дав можливість плавати під водою.
Але Кусто хотів піти далі і отримати трохи більше свободи під водою.
Читаєш, як він пірнав на 15 метрів на чистому кисні (спроба ребрізера), чи як в нього переломалась дихальна трубка на іншому винаході - і дивуєшся, що він взагалі вижив.
Багато поетичних описів морських ландшафтів і затонули кораблів, спостережень за морськими мешканцями, анекдотів з життя команди.
В одному з розділів він розвінчує низку неймовірних легенд про морських чудовиськ, серед яких був восьминіг, гаприклад.
There was only one other kid in the woods we called "Livingston Hills", Diane Werner, the daughter of Dad's childhood friend, Christian.
We would see each other a lot over the years until she, maturing faster, started getting girlish around age twelve.Diane and I had an arrangement whereby we played both indoors and outdoors on alternating days.
The Werners and the elderly Hogles who lived in a real house between ours' were the only year-round residents.
Thanks to him I read C.S. Lewis and lots of nature and science books at an early age.
Fantastic book. As a deep water diver, I found Cousteau's autobiographical recounting of the early days of diving to be informative and moving. While Cousteau has long been a hero of mine, reading his own account of the incredible pioneering that he, Dumas, and Tailliez performed only built my appreciation for their deep sea trio as well as for those others who met with death along the course of discovery. This book will inspire even those who have never reached below the depths.
Wow. Scuba diving, the Red Sea, exploration ... what else can a girl ask for? This girl, anyway! My favorite bits of this book were the ones that revealed how much diving (and biology) has changed in the past 50 years. No more riding turtles, ripping out gorgonia, or petting cuttlefish. The "crunch of coral" is a bad thing these days. And oh, this book is so French - Cousteau talks about all the bottles of wine they brought with them on their adventures. Point me towards the ocean!
One of the great explorers who dares to leave the sunlight and plunge down to visit lobsters in the crevice of a reef or rebuff a curious shark by hitting it on the nose with a camera. An amazing story of undersea adventures of Cousteau and his fellow explorers, the rewards of genius and courage. Fascinating illustrations.
This book was very good. I loved how the divers never gave up. They were courageous to offer to be the first ones who tried multiple "artificial lungs". They were the first to be able to move around without having to worry about interrupting nature with huge, metal suits. AWESOME!!!
This book provides a fascinating account of the earliest modern scuba dives conducted by Jacques Cousteau and Frederick Dumas using the Aqualung which was designed and built by Jacques Cousteau and Emile Gagnan.
I also was bothered by their dissection of a manta ray, but they had a scientific goal behind doing so and these creatures were not nearly so endangered when this book was written.The bottom line: if you're a diver, this is a must-read.
If you're not a diver but you are interested in the history of diving and what the earliest SCUBA dives were like, this is also a book for you.
A pretty good (warts and all) story of Cousteau's early dives and how they developed aqualungs and new types of equipment that are still the foundation for diving today. As a kid, I watched The Undersea World of Jacques Cousteau every week, so this book was a little bit of a retro experience for me. If you have even the mildest interest in biographies, diving, or anything to do with the undersea environment, you should read this book. It is also a very interesting look into Post-WWII Europe.Find it Read it!
The book has beautiful descriptions that continue to make me say to myself "that's so cool!" Although I know that scuba diving is not the life for me, this book made me harbor a new understanding and appreciation for the mysterious and adventitious beauty of the silent world below the waves.
Here is my favorite passage in the whole book:"During the summer of Liberation I came home from Paris with two miniature aqualungs for my sons, Jean-Michel, then seven, and Philippe, five.
I seized the waterlogged infants and hauled them out of the water.I gave another lecture to them that the sea was a silent world and that little boys were advised to shut up when visiting it.
What impressed me the most about Cousteau was his ability to write simply.
He obviously had a great passion for the technical, scientific side of things but at no time during my reading of the book did he show it.
This really comes through with his simple language; a child could read this and feel something an adult would, probably even more.
Cousteau just had a way of framing nature that makes me believe he was born to write books and make films.
I read this book at sea.
A breezy, informative read.
I found the descriptions exquisite and lyrical in places. It's like being along with a explorer seeing and experiencing a new world that man has never visited before (or at least very few times). It's amazing the risks they took and the places that they they were the first men to ever to visit.
The beginning of aqualung , pretty fascinating.....from a different time.
Fantastic. One of those books that transports you to a time past and a place you'd like to be.

It's hard for me to rate this book written by my hero Captain Jacques Yves Cousteau.
On one hand it is a true adventure for anyone who has tried to breathe through a straw as a child and on the other it is a story told by an old voice from a different generation.
There are some "killings in the name of science" and some snappy 50's fashion conclusions but the awesomeness in the stories of the first people ever to explore this world is thrilling.
I must remind myself that Cousteau became a champion for nature and perhaps the documentary series is better.
You have to admire the pluck of the early aqualung "men-fish" but also recognise that they were a very long way from being conservationists, no matter what line they took later. This book unashamedly shows them looting wrecks, pointlessly killing fish, regularly manhandling turtles and octopuses etc... Hmm...
Such fascinating material should have made an interesting book, but it isn't very interestingly written. There are some patches of engaging writing, but these are not supported by a well thought out structure and I found expanses of technical detail quite boring.
You don't need a new story to fall in love with diving. This origin story has an amazing amount of adventure.
Cousteau's chronicles of the early days of his underwater diving adventures starting from the mid-1940's...
Excelent! Could be a bit boring for non divers.
Great reading!! A must read for divers and enthusiasts!
Entertaining, easy read but some very interesting facts included.
This book is increible, I loved.
This book is full of wonderful stories of discovery.A favorite passage:"During the summer of Liberation I came home from Paris with two miniature aqualungs for my sons, Jean-Michel, then seven, and Philippe, five.
I seized the waterlogged infants and hauled them out of the water.I gave another lecture on the them that the sea was a silent world and that little boys were advised to shut up when visiting it.
It took several dives before they learned to hold their volleys of chatter until they had surfaced.
On seaside picnics Jean-Michel would go down thirty feet with a kitchen fork and fetch succulent sea urchins.
The Silent World was an interesting and very informational text to read.
He made the story as if the reader was actually experiencing it themselves.
When a reader is able to imagine that they are actually experiencing what is occurring in the book it aids them in engaging into the reading.
When a reader has an easy time engaging they find the story more interesting and possibly even more relatable.
Although these images were in black and white they still were very vivid pictures and spoke volumes on what he did and was going to do in is various life experiences.
How they - Dumas and Jacques - became overconfident after encounters where sharks were easily frightened off - then a frightening encounter being stalked by sharks to the point of exhaustion - with a lucky escape.
A reminder to me that no matter how predictable we think wild animals are - they are very much still wild and unforgiving predators and ambivalent about who you are - your status plays no role in the ocean.
I worked on many occasions in the offices of a notable Theme Park when they considered and then brought in a Tiger enclosure and the back story on managing these Tigers as they grew into adult age still causes me to never consider them predictable.
I don't think I would ever classify myself as having an interest in deep sea diving or sea creatures but this was a fascinating read and at times Cousteau's prose is almost poetic.This is Cousteau's true life accounts of his deep sea diving expeditions: it's not a book you will speed read in one night.
I found myself immersing myself in a few pages at a time, fascinated by what he was describing but also my mind drifting from the science talk.
Overall, I feel like I learned a lot and really enjoyed his anecdotes: for example, did you know that champagne does not have any carbonation (normally from built up CO2) when opened under the sea.
