https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6862.Amsterdam
Amsterdam by Ian McEwanIs it just me or do other people "shy away" from books that look a little too intellectual for them?
I like a good book (and I hate a bad book) and will read anything that interests me.
People who start off with the line: "Oh I never read any book on the best seller list - they are too populist!" In an anti-snob way I have a tendency to avoid any book that says "Winner of the Booker/Pulitzer Prize", more fool me!
She had been a lover or wife of four of the main male characters in the book.
For a book published in 1998 one of the main characters is an amazingly Trump-like character who is the British Foreign Secretary (right-wing, family values, anti-immigrant, pro-Brexit, anti-environment).
And is it right to make the presumption for all your readers that, of course, this behavior is “wrong” or “perverted” or “demeaning?” And what moral responsibility do you have in this scenario: you are hiking.
These are the dilemmas faced by our two main characters, one a nationally-known music composer and another the editor of a major London daily.
The moral dilemmas are laid out in conversational style with no pedantry.
I guess I will have to admit that the ethical questions Ian McEwan raised in this novel - focusing on political views, freedom of choice, sexuality and media coverage - are highly relevant and contemporary still, and the novel deserves to be read as one of the better McEwans.
My neverending frustration with him is perfectly illusrated in Amsterdam, though: I absolutely hate his endings.
More often than not they seem constructed, abrupt, somewhat willed.Maybe my relationship to McEwan novels would be enthusiastic if a caring book gnome ripped out the last 10 pages in his entire works?As it is, I conclude that ...
This sly little dark comedy – an unusual Booker Prize winner – examines aging and ethics in turn-of-the-millennium London.A woman’s death irrevocably changes the lives of three of her former lovers: a composer, a newspaper editor and a politician, each one staring down middle-age and mortality with varying degrees of acceptance and equanimity.McEwan’s prose is impeccable, and he’s clearly done his research.
His depiction of the newspaper world, in which editors are under the gun to get that scoop and increase circulation (especially among a younger demographic), is dead on.
I get the feeling McEwan’s a serious music lover.
On finishing it, I *literally* threw it against the wall in anger.This is my third McEwan, all read in a row.
I truly adored this book - while reading it, I saw it becoming his masterpiece.
He writes simply, but the register of feelings is not simple in the least, his delicate probings into human neurosis is, while restrained, almost always and surprisingly on target -- I think one needs to have a bit of middle-age, perhaps, and experience in vicious bureauocratic infighting to fully appreciate how on target McEwn is in parts of this ....
(a rather implausible argument itself).Acht...!!!What were you thinking, McEwan...!!??!
I am tantalised by his dexterity as a writer, his ability to write in a completely different style from that employed in Atonement.
I read this as I am going to be leading discussion on this in the book group I lead at my former school, with sixth form students who are studying Atonement.
The dry wit, black humour, satire and sparse, sharp prose combine to make this a biting, thrilling read.
McEwan is a master of writing intricate, compelling twists and powerful denouements, a much better composer than Clive Linley, and unlike Linley, a true artistic genius.
The writer of "Amsterdam" used the same exact model to write a later book: an unsuccessful meditation on being filthy rich in modern London in "Saturday," an overall truly horrendous ordeal, & "On Chesil Beach", a work of repression...totally boring, in fact.
The order of enjoyment of books of his that I've read through the years goes something like this:1) Atonement2) Enduring Love3) The Cement Garden4) Amsterdam5) On Chesil Beach6) The Comfort of Strangers8) The Child in Time7) SaturdayAnd right at the middle is this strange little book which, also like books 2, 5, 6 and 7 (even 1, come to think of it) describes the rich in all their insulting opulence.
رواية للكاتب البريطاني إيان مكيوان نال عنها جائزة بوكر عام 1998فكرة المسئولية الأخلاقية التي يراها كل شخص من وجهة نظر مختلفة بحسب المصالح والعلاقاتتبدأ الرواية في جنازة مولي ونتعرف على زوجها, وثلاثة من عُشاقها السابقينمؤلف موسيقي ورئيس تحرير وسياسي, تجمع الصداقة بين اثنين منهم كل منهم يحدد الواجب الأخلاقي للآخر ويعفي نفسه منه إذا تعارض مع عمله ومكاسبه يعرض الكاتب المظاهر السياسية والصحافية الزائفة المختفية وراء صور خادعة وقيم غير حقيقيةويختم روايته بنهاية قد تبدو غريبة لكنها تتفق مع عبثية العداوات والتناقضات والمطامع
I'm tired of the super-twist endings and the ponderous philosophical musings on guilt and morality. I'm tired of successful, monied people in nicely renovated townhouses feeling sorry for themselves. Maybe I don't get Ian McEwan. I'm okay with that. But I'm not going to read another one of these.
But alas.This Booker winner, while still full of writing that brings one to one's knees (I'm not worthy, Mr. McEwan), is my least favourite of the three.
And Clive's story - the choice he makes in order to chase the elusive spark of creativity and finish his symphony - now *that* was interesting, and to me, could have been the pivotal story in the book.
Far more interesting than the odd tumbling of events that actually occurred.Also, the title - yes, I realise that the story ends in the city of Amsterdam.
About a month ago, I was introduced to Ian McEwan through his novel Atonement.
So fabulous, in fact, that I was worried my husband might become annoyed at my new feelings for an actual LIVING writer.
You see, he agreed to all of my dead literary lovers, those who were already crouched in the corners of our bedroom (Cummings, Salinger, Steinbeck, Greene, Hardy, Eliot, White), but he never said okay to any of the living ones.In truth, I had already been picturing myself in a trendy London cafe with Mr. McEwan, blowing the steam off of my tea, asking him, in a sultry voice, about his taut prose and his juxtaposition.
"There really wasn't much else to do.
Make something, and die."- Ian McEwan, AmsterdamIt won the Booker, but wasn't my favorite Ian McEwan.
I found it fascinating at parts and love love love it when Ian McEwan writes fiction about composing or music.
There are a few writers I've read recently who do a fantastic job of incorporating classical music into their stories.
For me, McEwan's writing about music in this book is what keeps it at four stars and doesn't drop it to three.
My third Ian McEwan and another excellent read. Not quite on the level of Atonement, but still good, good enough to win the Booker Prize. It has a different feel than the other two, more of a modern day intrigue. Interesting characters, though not all that likeable, a little too elitist for me, but McEwan's storyline carries the day. The best character may be the one they buried at the beginning of the book, Molly. McEwan should write a prequel centering around her character. 4 stars.1998 Booker Prize Winner.
The men reminisce about Molly and will continue to do so at random throughout the story, but she is never a real presence in the book - I got the sense that none of these men actually knew her, so the reader doesn't get to either.
The husband wants to sell the photos to the newspaper editor, the editor talks it over with the composer, the politician freaks out...blah blah blah.
2. I still don't know what McEwan was trying to do with this book.
Think of the shittiest, stupidest, most embarrassing thing you’ve ever done in your life.
Unless it was the thing about Twilight and Fifty Shades, that’s god awful.
Vampire Sex is the most ridiculous thing to have ever happened to the history of literature since David Hasselhoff’s Don’t Hassle the Hoff or even since dear old Adolf’s Mein Kampf!!!
It just occurred to me that McEwan started this book thinking of one thing, but proceeded to make something completely different as he ended.
It’s like when you look at a person from afar and think: that’s an attractive human being.
What is this absurd nonsense. Everything I wrote yesterday about  Black Dogs  in terms of plot and characterisation applies equally to Amsterdam, except where Black Dogs attempts (but fails) to be a good novel, Amsterdam seems to lack even the intention. It is impossible to take this novel seriously. The characters are ridiculous. The plot is ridiculous. The entire novel is a setup to a conclusion so laughably stupid, that it made me want reevaluate my ratings of McEwan's other novels. Sure, it
What is this absurd nonsense.
Everything I wrote yesterday about 
Black Dogs
in terms of plot and characterisation applies equally to Amsterdam, except where Black Dogs attempts (but fails) to be a good novel, Amsterdam seems to lack even the intention.
It is impossible to take this novel seriously.
The characters are ridiculous.
The plot is ridiculous.
The entire novel is a setup to a conclusion so laughably stupid, that it made me want reevaluate my ratings of McEwan's other novels.
Sure, it kept me turning the pages, but for what?
A cheap thriller, and not even a good one.
I tried to read McEwan's Enduring Love, was bored by a little too much phoned-in prose, and ended up reading Amsterdam instead, because it sat on the shelf of my rental, between The Lovely Bones and a Harlequin Intrigue sampler.In retrospect, that was about right.
I read you in two days, like you were a Hardy Boys book.
You are about eight pages long, and part of the thrill of reading you was glancing up and being like "I'm 25% of the way through!
Look at me go!"Amsterdam stands at a strange point, as the most instantly engrossing and by far the cheapest McEwan book I've read.
I gave Amsterdam two stars because it's so short and there's this weird kind of peculiar joy when you read it.
Halfway through!Other than that, it's one of those boring white-collar novels featuring the seemingly enlightening but nonethelessly ponderous, intelectual and philosophical musings of succesful, rich people who live in their big villas and feel sorry for themselves.
None of the characters is memorable or likeable, and the novella (it's under 200 pages) never really gains any sort of coherence.
It just is, bland pseudo-intelectual pulp fiction masqueraded as "novel of ideas" that are supposed to be challenging but never really hit the mark.
Kitabın hikayesi sağlam, özel bir kurgusu yok ancak yazarın seller sular gibi akan dili ile çok rahat ve heyecanla okunuyor.
Yazar düşüncelerle olgular arasındaki gel-gitleri, ikilemde kalma, kararsızlık kavramlarını o kadar sade ama anlamlı cümlelerle anlatıyor ki, sanki yazarın hiç edebi kaygısı veya iddiası yokmuş sanılabilir.
Bir politikacıyı gözden düşürmek için onun cinsel tercihini kamuoyu ile paylaşıp paylaşmamak, tacize uğrayan bir kadına olay anında yardım edip etmemek arasındaki gel-gitler etik olarak okuyucunun gözünün içine sokulmadan sorgulanıyor.
Ötanazi konusunda da bir eleştirel dokunma var ki ötanazi yanlısı olmama rağmen yazarın ustalıklı yaklaşımı beni rahatsız etmedi.
Kafanızı dinlendirmek, düşünerek beyninizi zonklatmadan keyifle bir kitap okumak isterseniz öneririm.
I guess I was afraid I would be disappointed and considering that I have all his books, what would I do with them if I did not like the 2nd?
It is as if Birdsong was written entirely by a different person.Ian McEwan did not disappoint me in Amsterdam, his only Man Booker winning book (1998).
Clive's bestfriend is Vernon Halliday, the editor of the newspaper The Judge whose circulation is dwindling and he is tasked to reverse it so he was hired as the 6th editor just in a span of 3 years.
in some ways, I believe that this novel was McEwan's answer to Bogart's famous quote near the end of the movie when he's trying to make Ingrid Bergman leave with her husband: "I'm no good at being noble, but it doesn't take much to see that the problems of three little people don't amount to a hill of beans in this crazy world."I think Amsterdam both tragically agrees with that and ironically, laughingly disagrees at the same time.
This little short statement is by no means his grandest novel, either in tone or subject, but I do not think that detracts from its value.
This is not a review-type comment, but my reaction to McEwan’s work, after reading my third novel by him, is that I love the familiarity I feel: the way he thinks about characters, the way they think about one another, the honesty about all the dark, embedded ego reactions.
And that alone makes me love his work.Amsterdam is about the wiggly nature of our judgments about what is or is not moral and justified behavior, about how “spin” makes our human herd so certain that one thing is good and another is evil, about how our self-delusions (particularly those founded in elite personal perfectionism and devoid of a connection to other people) can so easily pass as self-truths when it is convenient, and finally about how, when we devolve completely into this insane ego battle, we destroy ourselves.
There are four principal characters in the story and the entire thing could have been wrapped up in well under 100 pages.
The end result being that it's like underwear that is neither here nor there !
One of the major characters-cum-plot drivers is dead at the time of the opening of the book and we are given passing references to her details.
There was an attempt to build a twist into the climax but frankly I had given up interest in the book a long time ago.The two stars are for McEwan's writing prowess for I find a lot of good writing in an otherwise unremarkable book.
“Such a tolerant, openminded, and grown-up sort of place”—such is the way McEwan describes the city of Amsterdam, and such is the way I’d describe the novel, Amsterdam—a story of mature friendships made vulnerable by differing views of tolerance and openmindedness and the growing realization that the two protagonists had not known each other as well as their long friendship might suggest.
The novel speaks to maturity and human faults, friendships jeopardized by experience, loyalty, memory, civic obligation—themes that may not address the concerns of every reader.Amsterdam is well-crafted—every detail serves a purpose and reveals its place in the narrative—all the pieces fit together perfectly.
The novels are so different, it’s as though they weren’t written by the same author.
They also loathe Julian Garmony, Foreign Secretary and likely claimant to the Prime Ministership.Clive's a successful composer, struggling with writing a Millenium Symphony.
It's derivative and unfinished because Vernon intervened and called in the police about the hiker, just in the last couple of days that Clive needed to finish off the composition.
However, considering how things turn out between Colin and Vernon, McEwan's view seems to be that even the best of friends can't be trusted with the power of life and death over another.I finished reading this book and journalled it on New Year's Day 2003.CRoss-posted at The Complete Booker.
Okay, I should probably start off by saying that I know not how to rate this book, or how to review it.
The themes of the book, especially the "degenerative" disease that kills Molly, and the euthanasia pact, are themes I feel somewhat strongly about, and I'll tell you why.
Euthanasia in India was brought to the forefront by the infamous Aruna Shanbaug case, which involved the question of mercy-killing the eponymous nurse, who'd been in a vegetative state since her brutal assault and rape in 1973.
I just don't like conceited, deceitful, contemptuous characters.The overall air of the book is despondent, gloomy, even.
Yes. Will I be reading more by McEwan again?
In Atonement I cried my eyes out (all three times), whereas in this book, well, I was interested in the language and the story but not so much in the three men.
Interestingly, the tone and thematics of Amsterdam felt to me more similar to his latest novel, The Children Act, and to some extent to Enduring Love: a few characters only, who all have secrets and regrets, who are fed up with certain other people in their lives and find themselves in need of making new choices.
Clever and well-written in McEwan’s usual precise style but a bit too contrived, especially at the end.
Through a bit of contrivance the two friends are then at each others' throats, and within a few pages, the novella ends abruptly in Amsterdam with mutual though unintended euthanasia.
Throughout, the humour tends to be a bit laboured, veering at several points into farcical set pieces about gutter-press style front pages or vapid lifestyle columns; in many ways Amsterdam reads more like a film script than an actual book.
I learned that when you let your self-importance get in the way of your humanity you are doomed.Yet another good read from Mr. McEwan
Роман, който разглежда хората като айсберг, от който виждаме само това, което е над повърхността.
А под повърхността има 10 пъти повече за опознаване и разбиране.
Такъв роман може би бих харесал много повече на по-ранна възраст.
Днес едва ли някой може да ме изненада с изследване на човешката природа, което защитава аругмента, че под повърхността винаги има повече.Намирам стила на Макюън за много интересен, отдава му се да създава сатира с думите и идеите си.
Това е всъщност оригиналното и неочакваното, от което имат нужда този тип експлоатирани истории и идеи.
