https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/816445.The_Absolute_at_Large
And please keep in mind Karel Čapek’s stance of acceptance and pluralism, a recognition that each person has their own version of the truth, however slight that truth might be, and no one person possesses, however air-tight their logic might appear, access to the whole truth.The owner of a kid’s merry-go-round, a man by the name of Jan Binder, is overtaken by the effects of the Kaburator and founds his own mystical sect.
But, since this novel takes place in the 20th century, religious belief is linked in subtle and not so subtle ways to Fascism and Communism.
«من به هیچچیز معتقد نیستم و نمیخواهم هم به چیزی معتقد باشم.
من همیشه منکرِ خدا بودهام.
فقط به ماده و تکامل معتقد بودم و بس.
من اهل علم هستم و علم هم نمیتواند وجود خدا را بپذیرد.
از نظر علم، وجود خدا صرفنظرکردنی نیست.
من مدعی نیستم که خدایی نیست، فقط اظهار میکنم که نباید باشد یا دستکم نباید تجلی کند.
من اطمینان دارم که علم خدا را گام به گام به عقب خواهد راند یا دستکم مانع تجلی او خواهد شد و یقین دارم که عالیترین مأموریت علم همین است.»کارخانۀ مطلقسازی حکایتِ مخترعی به نام رودلفماره ر
من اطمینان دارم که علم خدا را گام به گام به عقب خواهد راند یا دست‌کم مانع تجلی او خواهد شد و یقین دارم که عالی‌ترین مأموریت علم همین است.»کارخانۀ مطلق‌سازی حکایتِ مخترعی به نام رودلف‌ماره را نقل می‌کند که به‌همراه دوستِ سرمایه‌دارش، آقای بوندی، ماشینی شگفت‌انگیز را مونتاژ و به سراسر جهان صادر می‌کنند.
این ماشین که کربوراتور نام دارد، قادر است با بهره‌گیری از تمامیِ ظرفیتِ هسته‌ایِ ماده، بالاترین سطح انرژی را با کمترین میزان سوخت تولید کند.
آقایان تصور نکنید که کلیسا خواهد گذاشت خدا در جهان نفوذ کند.
– очевидно Чапек не само е предвидил, че нова световна война ще върлува, а дори е предугадил кога точно ще бъде това.
Разбирате ли, именно защото страшно много държи на това да има целия бог и цялата истина.
Затова не може да понесе някой да има друг бог и друга истина.
Ако допусне това, би трябвало да признае, че притежава само няколко мизерни метра или галона, или чувала от божията истина.“И война се води.
Може би е далеч по-просто – трябва само да вярваш и да вярваш, че и другият има право да вярва.
Βέβαια, οι εκπομπές του διοξειδίου του άνθρακα δεν προκαλούν τέτοια συμπτώματα, αλλά ο Capek προσπάθησε να μιλήσει για κάτι που ήταν έξω από αυτά που μπορούσε να επεξεργαστεί το ανθρώπινο μυαλό, κάτι πραγματικά εξωπραγματικό για τις αρχές του 20ου αιώνα.Παράλληλα, θέτει με τον τρόπο του και το θέμα της ανεξέλεγκτης καπιταλιστικής παραγωγής, η οποία φυσικά και δε λαμβάνει υπόψη της το πρόβλημα της εξάντλησης των πόρων.
Και, εννοείται, σατιρίζει και το ρόλο της θρησκείας.Το ουμανιστικό τέλος του βιβλίου μας θυμίζει το εξής: καμία ουσιαστική αλλαγή δε θα έρθει, αν δεν έρθουμε σε ρήξη με την υπάρχουσα κατάσταση και δεν πιστεύουμε στους άλλους ανθρώπους.Τελικά, το sci-fi είναι ίσως ο καλύτερος τρόπος να μιλήσεις για πολλά σημαντικά θέματα.
The premise of the book is rather simple -- an inventor creates a machine that can run on minuscule amount of fuel and deliver an almost infinite amount of energy.
What brought this novel to my mind when talking with the men of faith were their own views, their own beliefs that only they had the truth - each one of them having the complete truth, disregarding each other's truths in the process.
This novel is satire at its best, and much like in his other writing, Capek does this masterfully.
Dar să începem cu începutul: ce ne-am face dacă ne-am trezi pe cap cu un Dumnezeu proaspăt eliberat de materie (mai exact DIN materie), "total lipsit de experienţă" şi nesubordonat Bisericii?
Un Dumnezeu extrem de interesat de producţia industrială, dar care ignoră complet distribuţia şi comerţul?
Un Dumnezeu care îi face pe oameni generoşi, dar nu şi pacifişti?
Delictele pentru care e urmărit: alienarea proprietăţii particulare, practicarea ilegală a profesiunii de medic, încălcarea legii privitoare la dreptul de întrunire, tulburarea activităţii publice şi aşa mai departe.
Iar fiecare a început să considere că Dumnezeul lui e mai adevărat decât Dumnezeul de peste graniţă...
Στα της πλοκής, έχουμε έναν επιστήμονα που εφευρίσκει και δημιουργεί έναν Καυστήρα, ο οποίος μπορεί να παράξει ενέργεια από το οτιδήποτε, έστω και με την ελάχιστη ποσότητα, λύνοντας μιας για πάντα το ενεργειακό και κατ'επέκταση οικονομικό πρόβλημα των βιομηχανιών.
Όμως μέσω του Καυστήρα απελευθερώνεται το Θείο, το Απόλυτο, και οι άνθρωποι μετατρέπονται σε θρησκόληπτους.Προφανώς το βιβλίο δεν διαβάζεται για την πλοκή, που έχει ένα κάποιο ενδιαφέρον φυσικά, αλλά είναι μέσα στις υπερβολές που διακατέχει το είδος των σατιρικών έργων.
Εντάξει, δεν είμαι και ακριβώς λάτρης τέτοιου είδους σατιρικών κειμένων, γι'αυτό και δεν ξετρελάθηκα, γενικά, όμως, είναι ένα καλό και σημαντικό βιβλίο και, αν και γραμμένο το 1922, τα ζητήματα που θίγει απηχούν και την σημερινή εποχή.
În "Fabrica de absolut", Karel Capek înfăţişează o lume SF în care o maşinărie produce energie din nimic, dar emană o substanţă, sub formă de plasmă, care-i face pe oameni să fie extremişti în convingerile lor. Ca întotdeauna, pe glob există mai multe religii... Concluzia se poate trage foarte lesne. Karel Capek a devenit astfel unul dintre scriitorii reprezentativi ai gândirii analitice socialiste, ducând slaba judecată la apogeu şi prezentându-i consecinţele pe un fundal SF demn de toată admiraţia.
Lascerò ai futuri lettori la gioia di scoprire riga dopo riga la trama di questo strampalato romanzo (che romanzo non è).In una serie di quadri successivi l'autore ci illustra prima la scoperta e poi le infinite conseguenze.Čapek riempie di vetriolo la sua stilografica e con rara verve umoristica si diverte a dissacrare la scienza e la tecnologia che avanzano, la società ceca e quella mondiale, le religioni tutte, le filosofie, l'economia, le politiche, tutto quello che tocca diventa materiale da bruciare nel suo carburatore, ed è sorprendente che alla fine il residuo della combustione non sia altro che l'uomo, debole, ridicolo, ignorante ed incapace di apprendere dalla sua stessa storia, un animaletto goffo che tutto sommato ci fa tanta tenerezza.
Chvílemi jsem ke knize hledal horko těžko cestu. Ale myslím, že výsledek pak stojí za to.
His motive at first is to mock Marek, whom he believes is still the same loser he'd been in school and is being forced to sell due to a bankruptcy, but when he meets with the inventor, who is indeed his schoolmate, he becomes very intrigued by the invention, a machine that breaks down any substance to release the energy contained within.
Against his better judgment, Marek sells the Karburator to Bondy, who wastes no time commencing mass production of the miracle machine.
"People should first of all believe in other people, and the rest would soon follow.""Everyone has the best of feelings toward mankind in general, but not towards the individual man. We'll kill men, but we want to save mankind."
This book is an excellent first item on a literature list for anyone teaching social/ethical aspects of machine learning. Before you give into all the popular beliefs about skynet, what AI will do to production and labour, take a dive in to this 1920s story from a wonderful czech writer. The idea that t absolute that will change our lives is not the absolute that will change our minds is something I am planning to teach, using this book, on a data science introduction seminar. A quick, definately fascinating and very refreshing read.
با سردرد این کتابو تموم کردم :/تا یک سوم اولش رو دوست داشتم..
بعدش رو نه خیلی.
و فکر میکنم یکی از دلیل ها ترجمه بود.
دیگه آخراش فقط داشتم میخوندم که تموم بشه!اما خب موضوع جالبی داشت.
پایانش هم خوب بود، با این مضمون که چون خودمون یه چیزیو دوست داریم و یکی دیگه دوست نداره نباید طرفو بکشیم :دیداستان هم از اینجا شروع میشه که یه نفر یه دستگاه اختراع میکنه که ماده رو کامل استفاده میکنه و مطلق به جا میذاره...
و این مطلق الم شنگه ای تو دنیا به پا میکنه که بیا و ببین :دیو من نسخهی خیلی
با سردرد این کتابو تموم کردم :/تا یک سوم اولش رو دوست داشتم..
بعدش رو نه خیلی.
دیگه آخراش فقط داشتم میخوندم که تموم بشه!اما خب موضوع جالبی داشت.
پایانش هم خوب بود، با این مضمون که چون خودمون یه چیزیو دوست داریم و یکی دیگه دوست نداره نباید طرفو بکشیم :دیداستان هم از اینجا شروع میشه که یه نفر یه دستگاه اختراع میکنه که ماده رو کامل استفاده میکنه و مطلق به جا میذاره...
و این مطلق الم شنگه ای تو دنیا به پا میکنه که بیا و ببین :دیو من نسخه‌ی خیلی قدیمی کتاب رو دارم.
the premise is: a Czech engineer designs a device that transforms matter into energy with perfect efficiency -- a sort of nuclear reactor, except this was written in the 1920s and particle physics was still very new and exciting territory.
nor is it hard to notice how the text connects capitalism with religious bigotry and nationalism.
the premise seemed very exciting to me, and the humour promised to be sort of charming, but after the fourth mention of cannibalistic ~natives~ for comedic effect, all i'm left with is a bad taste in my mouth.
Un inventeur conçoit une machine capable de produire une énergie formidable et entièrement propre en annihilant le charbon.
Formidable !
Malheureusement, la destruction de la matière libère l'essence divine qui s'y trouvait enfermée, et tandis que le monde entier s'équipe de son Carburateur, une vague de foi aveugle se met à frapper tous ceux qui s'en approchent.Ce petit roman de SF tchèque est extrêmement facile à lire et délicieusement satirique.
Tout le monde est tourné en dérision dans la plus grande bonne humeur et avec une justesse désopilante.
"Żadnej prawdy nie wymusisz na nikim" <3
Non per questo la lettura è meno piacevole, anzi: l'effetto sta a metà tra il documentario/reportage e il film/serial del genere "catastrofe globale", in cui si sviluppano diverse storie parallele, collegate dal tema ma non da una trama canonicamente lineare.L'anno di stesura è importante: pur conoscendo poco la storia della fisica nucleare, ho avuto l'impressione che l'Autore (già, ormai per me Čapek si è guadagnato la A maiuscola) abbia avuto intuizioni non indifferenti, sfruttando le conoscenze dell'epoca.
O che l'Assoluto intralcia i rapporti di coppia (ah, la preveggenza e la lettura del pensiero altrui), come dimostra la parabola della Santa Elen: un po' d'inganno è l'unico legame infallibile fra le persone ...
Pozycja obowiązkowa - książka doskonale balansuje pomiędzy absurdem a smutną obserwacją rzeczywistości. Bardzo miła lektura.
The Absolute at Large is a deft, straightforward, drily laugh-out-loud satire on spiritualism.
As its curious byproduct converts factory workers, board members, bankers, and innocent bystanders to rapturous spirituality, neither capitalism or Marxism can withstand its effects on society--and the Catholic Church is the first to admit that God has no place in human religion.The book is full of wry one-liners and absurd humor, such as the Church's belabored decision to baptize God into its ranks, and a dean's indignant belief that a scholar of religion has no place believing in God. Sarcasm is surprisingly ageless; written in the twenties, the novel and its humor keep quite well, and remind me sometimes of P.
But it's not a novel to read either for its subtlety, for its beauty, or its generosity toward humanity.
Винаги съм мислил, че сляпата вяра води до един безмислен и съкрушителен фанатизъм и историята го потърждава по-добре от която и да е дума.
Вярата, в нейния чисто религиозен аспект, може да бъде разрушителна и безсъзнателна стихия способна на невероятно разрушение, ако тя не бъде не просто усетена, но и оъзната.
Ако към нея не бъде подходено както с всеотдайност, така и с толерантност и яснота на разума.
Тази книга е един разказ за свят, в който Бог става реален за света, но самият свят се опитва да го вкара в своите нереални рамки.
Am prevestit ca are sa ofere ceva demn de atentie si, intr-adevar, cartea contureaza o idee interesanta- stiinta genereaza energie divina pe banda rulanta.
In ansamblu, cartea mi-a placut, dar m-a si plictisit.Citate:"Abundenta inseamna haos si haosul e ceva ce aduce cu lipsa de ratiune sau cu betia.
Da, intelectul uman ramane inmarmurit, stupefiat, in fata prisosintei acestui act creator.""Absolutul exista in fiecare bucatica de materie, intr-un fel in stare latenta, hai sa spunem, ca o energie incatusata, inerta sau, mai simplu, ca Dumnezeu e omniprezent si ca, deci, el se afla in materie.""Nici unul, nici celalalt nu era poet; dar in clipa aceea inimile lor cantau." (my favourite)
The ideas in it were well-presented, though with humour, and there were a lot of places where I found myself highlighting quotes that stood out to me, for example:Pg 103 (according to Kindle): "We'll have no Japanese faith.
First, because it is orthodox, and secondly, because or Czar so wills, and fourthly, because we, my friend, have the biggest army."Which is pretty much how all wars start.There were plenty of good quotes in here, but I'll end with one from, appropriately, the end:Pg. 147 (according to Kindle):"Everyone has the best of feelings towards mankind in general, but not towards the individual man.
Capek's pioneering works are indeed worthy to read; yet, a modern reader- already divulged by the perennial dreary image of dystopian future, when the rebellious robots and machines will threaten the human race- may ironically find his novels and plays, which were once original and indeed seminal, cliché and outdated.
Nevertheless, 'the absolute at large' sounds original and even surprising.Capek machinates stores of interesting ideas and brings them into this novel, wherein each of those ideas can somehow fascinate the reader with new aspects of what one could have already found to be true as universal fact.
This is the modern subtext of Capek's Absolute, an extant field of holiness, produced in our most unholy of machinations - industry.
The Absolute fulfills Fukuyama's 'End of History', is the apex of every Galtian-Randian fantasy, and the terminus of competition exceeding itself to the point that supplies so exceed demand as to stir a revival of Luddites in the wake of enormous fanaticism.
The idiocy of it all lies not in its absurdity, but in the very consequential probability that Capek intones with every line - i.e., that our dogmatic drive to confront the 'God' within, very logically results in the cannibalism of our competing ideologies.
This is the world we inhabit, not the Hollywood fantasies of Fukuyama.
A highly recommended sci-fi novel for anyone who enjoys Phillip K.
He calls his invention a Karburetor and it can run a factory or generate power for a whole city on the tiniest amounts of coal.
The Karburetor has a strange by-product that is also produced: God, the Absolute, in an undiminished form.
Peculiar things start to happen.
The Karburetors not only power the factories, but start to run them.
Products are produced in abundance while the workers are busy performing miracles, healings, and levitations.
All seems well until people start discussing their perception of the Absolute.
I thoroughly enjoyed this one.
Very clever, very funny, very dark. I can hardly believe this was written all the way back in the 1920s. What happens - or rather - how people react when the pure substance of 'God', or the Absolute, appear in the world. Quite prophetic really (World War II and other wars of the last and our century)but almost a hundred years on it doesn't seem to me we have progressed that much from Capek's characters.
"В колкото по-голямо нещо вярва някой, толкова по-яростно презира другите, които не вярват в него. А всъщност най-голямата вяра би било да се вярва в хората.""Всяка вяра и всяка истина си има нещо хубаво, та дори да е само това, че другият си я обича."
This is one of those books I had to read for a college class on Eastern European history since 1914. It has stayed with me ever since as representative of the Czechs' biting satire, especially towards religion. It remains one of my favorite books of all time and is a must-read for, well, everyone.
A satirical sci-fi classic from the writer best-known for introducing the word 'robot'. Brilliant book. Highly enjoyable.
