https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822338.Huis_clos_suivi_de_Les_mouches
But as human hearts go, they desire what they cannot have, and they discover they are stuck in an eternal triangle of unreciprocated desire, powerless to change the constellation or even just get a moment of relief."L'enfer, c'est Les Autres", one character sighs.Utterly frustrated, one of the characters even tries to kill another, to face the silliness of the act immediately afterwards:"Morte!
There is nothing else to do: "Continuons!"My only question now is, as Sartre created this realistic scenario of humans torturing each other with their wishes and vanities, who is in his Huis Clos?
Though every time I read this play - I have unfortunately never seen it performed - it occurs to me that, logically, heaven should be other people too, and that Sartre is perhaps taking an unjustifiably gloomy view.
There is an incident in Huis Clos where one of the characters offers another one her eyes to use as a mirror.
Both in Huis Clos and in Persona, you have a situation where a small group of people - three in the play, two in the film - are alone together for an extended period, cut off from the outside world.
Fabulous and powerful. How to make a masterpiece from nothing. "Hell is the other", but here is to the delight of the reader. Listen to see !!! That's it you are in the room! The atmosphere is heavy. There is nothing to do; Yes! There is another other and are watching you there dissect you, and you feel you are working to the body. And you? What role do you play in this hell? How far will they go? How far will you go?
Sartre was one complex individual. These two plays are not intended to make you smile or feel comfortable - but they will challenge your sense of being and existence and are extremely well-written. For understanding the French existentialists in the mid-20th century, these are unavoidable plays and entertaining to read even if they do not necessarily have happy endings.
But Jean-Paul Sartre's Les mouches (The Flies), an existentialist re-telling of the murder of Aegisthos and Clytemnestra at the hands of Orestes and Electra, comes close to what I was looking for back then, despite not having been written until 1943.
Sartre takes the classical Greek tale, in which Orestes returns from his exile and is egged on by his long-lost sister Electra to avenge their father's death by killing their mother and her lover, and turns it into a parable about the changeable reality of gods in human lives, the role of remorse, and the power of free will.
اصلا نیازی به کلاه اهنی مشبک نیست. جهنم یعنی دیگران...
Mais éventuellement, on commence a voir que, peut-etre, il n'y a pas actuellement un place qui s'appele "l'enfer"; l'enfer, c'est determine par nos experiences avec les autres.
Mais, à cause des autres (Estelle et Ines), qui l'appellent "un lache" dans un monde ou on s'attend les homes etre courageux, l'enfer, pour Garcin, c'est d'etre appelé "un lache".
Mais dans la salle avec Garcin et Ines, sans la glace, elle a besoin d'etre rassure qu'elle est encore jolie, qu'elle est important.
Ines, qui n'a ete jamais bien aime a la terre, peut voir qu'Estelle est nervouse, et elle profit d'elle quand elle lui dit que son apperance n'est pas parfait pour la rendre fous.
It is this play that has spawned one of the most misunderstood quotes in literary history, c'est-à-dire "L'enfer, c'est les autres." What we are given by Sartre, is a room that houses three people; the rather tense Garcin, the empty-headed Estelle and Inès, one of the most ridiculously stereotypical lesbian characters I have ever encountered.
The point is, they are locked in with eachother, and they don't get along very well, resulting in the formulaïc thesis that hell is in fact the company of other people.First of all - his famous line tries to convince you that hell is the company of those particular individuals that bring out the worst in us.
Only read Huis Clos cuz mandatory read.
Sartre témoigne dans ces deux pièces extrêmement amères de la lucidité et d'une forme d'ironie poignante qui fait, tout justement, mouche. 4,7/5
L'enfer c'est les autres dans la vie comme dans l'au delà. Nos bourreaux sont à l'image de nous mêmes...ainsi que nous sommes à l'image des Dieux qui nous ont créés...cruels, orgueilleux et insensés.
It's a fun play to read but maybe a little more grim than Sartre intended.
The problem is that Orestes doesn't regret his actions, while Electra does.
I mean, Orestes gets to be chased by flies, but Sartre gives Electra a cruel fate by saying she's basically become her gross ugly mother (yeah, nothing sexist there, Jean-Paul) and has her deny her actions by cowering at Zeus's feet.
It's not necessarily sexist, but I couldn't help but notice Sartre gives many details about how repulsive Clytemnestra looked but nothing at all about Aegisthus besides his terrible morals/actions.Recommended for anyone who likes WWII-era French theatre and modern takes on Greek classics (like Anouilh's Antigone or Giraudoux's La guerre de Troie n'aura pas lieu).
They are short vignettes expressive of his philosophy of man’s freedom to choose, and the responsibility to act; and in typical Sartre fashion, they are passionate in expression, and challenging to thought-norms.
You are—your life, and nothing else.”The Flies was amazing as a declaration of defiance against conventional, social penitence as a salve to conscience; and against obeisance paid to any god that might excuse us from taking personal responsibility.
In claiming one’s situation and making the best out of it, one is claiming themselves, because every person is in part a product of their time and culture, and is therefore ‘co-author’ of their situation by choosing life instead of suicide or desertion of responsibility.
Paused until I find a copy, because we’re not reading it in class anymore.
"ბუზები" ხომ საოცრად საინტერესო და დიდი მნიშვნელობის მქონე იყო,მაგრამ "ცხრაკლიტული" კიდევ უფრო ჩამთრევი და ამაღელვებელი.ბევრ საინტერესო ფრაზასა და მომენტს ამოვწერდი,თუმცა აჯობებს,თავად წაიკითხოთ. ბევრი რეკომენდაცია ჩემგან და ორიოდე სიტყვა:Sartre is smartre.
Car c'est là aussi tout le paradoxe de l'affaire : ils sont devenus inséparables et totalement interdépendants les uns des autres : « les autres sont au fond ce qu'il y a de plus important en nous-mêmes pour notre propre connaissance de nous-mêmes », dira Sartre en préambule à l'enregistrement phonographique de la pièce en 1965.« L'enfer c'est les autres »« “ L'enfer c'est les autres ” a été toujours mal compris.
Ils ne se connaissent pas, viennent de milieux très différents, ne partagent ni les mêmes convictions ni les mêmes goûts.Dans cette pièce débute alors un procès à huis clos où chacun des trois personnages juge et est jugé sur les actes qui composent son existence.

L’importance de ne mourir qu’après avoir vécuUnies par le fil conducteur du libre arbitre, les deux pièces (ici présentées en ordre chronologique inversé) se font manifeste de la pensée existentialiste de l’auteur.
C’est le libre arbitre assumé qui, tout en le châtiant dans Les mouches, libère le héros du conformisme étouffant tissé par les “maîtres de morale”, et c’est encore le libre arbitre, dans son double rôle de délivreur et bourreau, qui dans Huis clos, en l’absence d’interlocuteurs métaphysiques, détermine la peine éternelle dans l’au-delà.
Les deux pièces incitent donc le lecteur à trouver le “salut” pas dans l’espoir d’une récompense post-mortem, mais dans l’acte volontaire du vivant.
If you know nothing about Sartre and want to get a quick peek into his philosophy, Huis Clos (No Exit) is an accessible start.
Two women and a man are escorted to a large room which they will share for eternity.
Within minutes, it's clear why these three have been thrown together; each has exactly the personality and character flaws designed to drive the other two mad.
As we learn about the blighted lives the three have lived and watch them squabble and torment each other, we understand the truth of the play's most famous line, "L'enfer, c'est les autres", ("Hell is other people").
Quand j'ai appris que "the good place" (série télé géniale !) s'était inspirée de Huis clos, j'ai eu envie de relire la pièce pour me rendre compte de cette inspiration. Au delà de ça, Huis clos reste une oeuvre très intéressante et fascinante dans les interactions des personnages, se jugeant inlassablement pour l'éternité dans cet enfer sans pic ni démons, mais devenant ainsi dépendants affectivement des uns et des autres.
c'est une pièce qui vous ensorcelle tout de suite. il y a un sentiment fort d'angoisse qui se mêle à un autre d'humour. j'ai réfléchi, j'ai frémi, je me suis marré -- en fin de compte Huis clos est inoubliable.
Huis Clos est une bonne mise en scène de la philosophie existentielle de Sartre. C'est là que paraît la fameuse phrase : "L'enfer, c'est les autres".
Enfermé dans la même salle tout au long de la pièce ;) #coupedes4maisons
J'ai commencé le livre avec l'intention de seulement lire Huis Clos mais au final j'ai préféré Les Mouches, j'ai trouvé le thème de la pièce moins simplet et le texte plus joli.
Three despictable people forever locked inside a room, getting on each other's nerves, desiring unattainable goals.
People who behave like cry babies all the time, demanding your time and attention perpetually, asking you to validate each dot of their insignificantly ridiculous 'i's;II.
Living on a world were everyone stares at their phones unendlessly so if you walk looking ahead you feel like among zombies;V.
Valet, where is the lock on the door, so I can try my way out...?
My interest in this collection was primarily in the first play, which has long had a fairly strong influence in my own writing about the torment of never-ending situations and difficulties in communication and coming to terms with other people, an issue that has been of rather unhappy importance in my own existence.
At any rate, my reading purposes here were somewhat in the nature of research into what made this play so impactful for me and how to set up my own scenes with three people trapped together in an unhappy triangle.The contents of this book are very simple.
Let that one go – it is just that I then went on to reading Sartre’s The Flies, and he uses Zeus with Orestes, Electra and Clytemnestra in his play, whereas Sophocles has Orestes, Electra and her sister Chrysothemus, with a reference to a dead sister who is unnamed but sacrificed by their father for a transgression he made against a god.
They are given the chance to work out for themselves what the meaning of their placement together is, and how to make best use of each others’ stories and perspectives to free themselves from their own shortcomings.
To what extent do we remain authentic in the different scenarios in which we live?
For example: are we ourselves with our opinions and attitudes when we are in the family, at work or between friends?
Or do we really act differently, because of the environment we are in, to avoid conflicts or because of our own fear of losing something?
But we note that free will is always between lines, pointing out that despite what we lived, we are not only the result of what we choose but also of what we do not choose.
No Exit is very famous, and probably with good reason.
The famous-with-good-reason phrase "Hell is other people" comes from it, and it makes quite a lot of sense in context (if not in, you know, real life or Christian psychology-- what's that, Hopkins?
"God's most deep decree/ Bitter would have me taste.
My taste was me").
The Flies is a little much.
It's a retelling of the Orestiad, but without grace (i.e. Eliot) or justice (i.e. Aeschylus).
All it's got to offer is Freedom, which apparently means being able to resent that you're an instrument of Fate, and a disgusted middle finger to Christian piety.
Je le conseil vivement, les personnages, pour le peu de page, sont bien développés et on comprend sans trop de difficulté où l'auteur veut en venir.
Par contre il faut faire attention à bien comprendre ce que veut dire "l'enfer c'est les autres"(view spoiler)[ "On a cru que je voulais dire par là que nos rapports avec les autres étaient toujours empoisonnés, que c'était toujours des rapports infernaux.
Or, c'est tout autre chose que je veux dire.
Je veux dire que si les rapports avec autrui sont tordus, viciés, alors l'autre ne peut être que l'enfer." Extrait de Sartre, Commentaire sur le CD Huis Clos, 1964 (hide spoiler)]
