https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/590833.The_Mystical_Theology_of_the_Eastern_Church
I had read this book several years ago when I first had learned about the Orthodox Church and was trying to find out more about.
It's a bit difficult to read if you are, as I was then, entirely unfamiliar with the history of the Church and with Orthodox theology and terminology.
Read it as one of the first books you read when becoming Orthodox and after living the Orthodox life for a few years read it again.
It is without doubt the best book on Orthodox spirituality and theology in the English language -- the classic and the standard.
This is a book that changed my life and made me want to be a Christian after years of immersing myself in other 'Eastern' Religions.
How it happened was such- I was actually reading a book on Islamic Gnostic Mysticism, which while profoundly critical of Christianity, had a little note by either Lossky or Von Balthasar.
Reading this simple explanation of the image of God by Lossky, incredible as it sounds, there and then almost convinced me that Christianity was true and I've never looked back.
All of this, is put forward in a clear, eloquent and passionate witness; needless to say this will not be my last reading of Vladimir Lossky's Magnum Opus.
Oh, and the last chapter on Divine Light is so worth the wait.Based on how my understanding was able to grow, having no exposure to Eastern Orthodoxy, I think this book is quite friendly to those of us who were, spiritually-speaking, born and raised in the Roman Catholic or Protestant traditions.
We cannot think we are theological people if we avoid spirituality.
Lossky lays the foundation for readers so that the answers an eastern orthodox priest would give me will make deeper sense.I've walked away from this book spiritually enriched, feeling a deep sense of kinship with those I know who worship in Orthodox churches.
Though I have great respect for great Western theologians such as St. Augustine & St. Thomas Aquinas, under whose teachings primarily I was schooled, in fact, I find myself much more attuned to Eastern theology & spirituality than to the Western at this stage of my life.
Lossky's explanation of basic catholic (small "c"), i.e., universal, theological subjects (the Holy Trinity, creation, Jesus/the Son of God, the Holy Spirit, the Church, the stages of the mystical way, the fullness of the reign of God), is one of the clearest, most comprehensive, & inspiring presentations I've ever read.
This is a great book that brings the day-to-day living of Christianity to new heights - heights that have been marginalized or lost in the Western world, even within Christianity itself.
One of the "must read"; to understand Orthodoxy !
Lossky's work is a useful, impassioned overview of Eastern Orthodox theology and spirituality and what makes it different from Roman Catholic and Western spirituality. I liked it, and found it interesting, but I found its rhetorical style off-putting. I am not sure what it was about writers in 20th-century France that led them to write everything like a passive-aggressive polemic, but whatever it was, it detracted from the book for me. It's clear that Lossky wants to "work on" the reader, and I guess that's fine; however, I would prefer not to get worked on like this.
Dense, difficult, and occasionally overwhelming, Lossky's Mystical Theology is one of the twentieth century's most important works of Eastern Orthodox theology. Lossky, in line with other twentienth-century Orthodox, probably overstates the difference between East and West in both theological method and doctrine. Still, he captures the organic quality of Orthodoxy--the interconnectedness of dogma, ritual, and mysticism--as well as any other writer who has tackled this subject.
A beautiful monograph on Eastern Christianity. Drawing on ancient and contemporary sources, Lossky outlines Orthodox dogma - not as a collection of dry doctrines, but as a spirituality whose high goal is union with God.
This book drew my life further into the hesychastic fashion of life. I'm making no pretense that I am well developed in this. The point is that I am deeply interested.
Was a major text in its day, but much of it has not stood the test of time. E.g., his section on ecclesiology and the filioque is today acknowledged at a lot of bollocks.
While this title appears on many recommended lists of books on Eastern Orthodoxy, it would not be easy reading for someone uninitiated to mystical Christian writings (from either the east or the west).
It also helps to have at least a passing knowledge of Greek as many of the terms appear in Greek.Lossky spends over half the book laying a foundation on the Eastern understanding of apophaticism (describing God by what He is not), asceticism, the Holy Trinity, uncreated energies of the Godhead, image and likeness, the "economy of the Son" and the "economy of the Holy Spirit," before discussing the goal of Christian mysticism which is theosis or union with God, the Divine Light.
When a United Methodist pastor, my Bishop, knowing my strong mystical leanings, encouraged me to find inspiration in Eastern Orthodoxy.
My recall is this was the first resource I read, and immediately found a depth in this, and other Orthodox writings, that I had not found in Western sects of Christianity.
This immediately appeared to me as a classic, and pointing to a depth that left an indelible impression on me.
As far as spiritual faith, beyond rationale religion, to me the Eastern Church is the most indepth-spiritually within the Christian communion.
This is a remarkable read, speaking to a union of mind and heart.
Masterpiece!
Incroyable et bouleversant.
My only criticism is about how long it took for me to understand (and value) the connection between the first three chapters (apophaticism, divine darkness, Trinity) and later chapters about uncreated energies, the economy of the home, and Christian unity.
A LOT of deep probing into one's own philosophy about the nature of reality will be necessary to glean the most of this massive book.
This book is very deep, and often boring.
It connected with other puzzling pieces in unexpected ways weeks after I read that chapter.
I could easily give this book a 3 or even a 2 for how boring it often was.
Lossky, happily, is as familiar with Western thought as he is with Eastern, and his polemic to the West is quite gentle.
Its purpose is to illustrate the differences between the two spheres of the church's thought and practice while also emphasizing their basic similarity.
Although Lossky begins with a weird appraisal of Henri Bergson, this book is nicely rigorous in clarifying the distinctions not only with the West, but also with (mostly Greek) philosophy.
Mysticism is also important, being basically indistinguishable or at least constituent with theology in the East, where the final goal of the Church is deification, as we elevate to ignorance in the great cloud of unknowing.
"The mystical theology of the Eastern Church is always trinitarian. The knowledge of God is always for the Eastern Church a knowledge of the Trinity, the mystic union - a unity of life with the three divine Persons. Eastern apophaticism jealously safeguards the antinomy of the trinitarian dogma, the mysterious identify of the Three-in-One; resists the Western formula of the procession ab utroque." (p. 240) "Created being, considered in itself, will always be an implenitude: considered in the Holy Spirit it will appear as the fullness of the deified creature." (p. 241)
This was my first book that was all about Orthodox theology. Who knew that I would anything about Christianity that would ever make any sense to me? Certainly not the me from even 1 year ago, let alone 10. I have a great respect for the Orthodox Church that I can only see continuing to grow from here on out, not just based on theology, but also on history. The book is somewhat dense and will require careful reading, especially considering the heavy subject matter.
Keep in mind that this book was written as an introduction for the non-Orthodox (mainly the heterodox).Other than that, listen to this http://www.ancientfaith.com/podcasts/... and follow along with the transcript because it and the audio differ.
Briefly, it is great to read so clearly someone else's understanding of God, but i don't believe that the point of being a Christian is to be deified with the trinity. There is so much more to life, and the flow of energy is all the wrong way round. Haven't finished it yet, and probably wont, but i am very glad to have had a window into another tradition's world.
I hate giving this book a low rating, because I'm sure for the right person it'd be great and interesting. It's rather academic for me, and a little vague - I read the first few chapters and didn't find that I was finding out much about the title subject. Perhaps I should have persevered.
An interesting look at the Eastern Christian Church. A little gets lost in the translation but still useful.Mysticism is the pursuit of the conscious awareness of God. I think the Western Church can learn from our Eastern Brothers on this.
Lossky's theological study penetrates the mind and beyond, reaching all the way to the depths of the spirit.
Read from March 27-30 2011
Finally gave up. Maybe a theologian would like this. Most of the time I had no idea what Lossky was talking about.
Oh, Eastern Orthodoxy, my not so secret jealousy! I loved the bit about how Adam and Eve existed as spiritual bodies and only got skin after the Fall.
there's nothing i can add to the reviews of others about this book. it's dense and challenging, but if you're interested in Orthodoxy, this is a must read!
Deals with apophatic theology, Gregory Palamas and hesychasm.
Profound
