https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15781725-the-house-girl
I liked the beginning of this book and thought it had a lot of promise.
I like the topic of slave reparations, wondering at the outset how we could ever be so arrogant as to think we could repair our actions in any meaningful way.
The author tried too darn hard to make this book weighty with truths.
She beat us over the head in sentences like: "Truth was multilayered, shifting; it was different for everyone, each personal history carved unique from the same weighty block of time and flesh." Plus this book could probably win a prize for the most commas ever used by an American writer.
This topic deserves a better book.
Feeling a little guilty by not explaining my 1 star rating, so here is my review that I submitted to Amazon:Outstanding ratings, historical fiction, captivating subject; on all counts I should have loved this book.
Don't get me wrong, I love descriptive writing, but this was complete overkill.
To her left, the secretaries buzzed and clacked and sipped.
The secretaries never asked questions.
Maybe I didn't give it a fair shake, but if something moves me to the point that I want to chuck the book through my plate glass window, then I should on all counts, stop the madness.
The present-day character, Lina, is a lawyer in a high-powered NY firm looking for a plaintiff to represent a class-action lawsuit on behalf of slaves brought to the United States who were, obviously, never compensated for their work.
The book moves between Lina and Josephine, a "house girl" slave in the 1800s working for a Mr. and Missus (sic) Bell.
At any rate, the characters of the past seem far better developed than Lina, her bosses and co-workers, her father, and the artsy crowd around them.That's okay though -- and forgivable.
But the book is way too long and I find that I don't really care very much about Lina.
In a book about slavery and reparations, I do not think it would be out of line to expand descriptions of key characters beyond "dark" and "pale".
One main character has dark eyes and black hair; her mom has dark hair and pale skin and dark/green eyes; her dad has dark frazzled hair and blue eyes; someone has dark eyebrows, death is "darkness", and so on for the entire book.
("The slave's eyes of shifting color, a shadow of blue here, green there, hazel and brown and gray, the colors fractured together and split.")I cannot even begin to review the plot.
Not a one is free, Nathan had said, but Josephine did not believe that could be true.As I finally got around to reading this fabulous book I couldn't believe that it had been sitting around for years (years!) unread on my Kindle.
These were beautiful passages that conveyed her humanity and the universality of a desire for freedom.In addition to the "two-fer" readers also get to enjoy a variety of styles in this book.
Started out pretty good but the main character in the present, Lina Sparrow, just seemed to get stupider and stupider as the story progressed.
And the story line about her mother was completely ridiculous and unbelievable.
Certainly an attorney could manage that simple task.
If her mother had actually died in a car crash, she certainly could have found an archived newspaper article about it.
Sorry, Lina, you are just too dumb to be an attorney or even an average citizen of the 21st century.
Instead of re-writing the whole story she simply used one of her characters to explain why the law suit wasn't going to work and from that point on in the book the author had to change her perspective and create a new reason for the modern day side of the story to be relevant.The side of the book that featured the Plantation Slave girl was interesting but extremely repetitive.
I love the alternating narratives of Josephine and Lina and how Lina's story helps unfold the story of Josephine the artist .
The writing is so good that you can almost see the paintings as they are described and almost feel what the characters feel.I have read a number of books recently which use the mechanism of alternating narratives of past and present and I really like it when the stories truly connect in an important way .
I was so taken with Josephine and I found Lina's story captivating as well.
Received as a giveaway on goodreads.com first reads. Thank you for choosing me and I look forward to reading it. I loved this book but would've liked to at least hear a little about what happened with Lina and her mom. The book had me engaged from the beginning. There were a few twists and turns that were unexpected and a couple of characters that I would have like to see further developed but I look forward to reading more from this author.
Full Disclosure: I went to high school with Tara but haven't seen her since we graduated.It was an odd experience to read a book by someone with whom I was a teenager.
But within about five or six pages it stopped being about High-School-Friend-now-Author Tara and all about the characters and the story.This first novel tells the powerful and compelling story of Josephine, a slave in Virginia in the mid-nineteenth century, and Lina, a young lawyer for a prestigious New York law firm in the present.
Lina's firm has just taken on a case that will deal with slavery reparations, and Lina is searching for a descendent of slaves to act as the plaintiff.
Lina is a NYC young lawyer (like the author) who gets tasked with finding a profile case for a class action lawsuit against the government and companies that benefited from slavery.
Through her art world connections she comes across the case of a house slave, Josephine, who may have been the creative force behind the wonderful and pricey paintings by the wife of an aristocratic plantation owner in Virginia in the 1850s.
Lina has to travel to Virginia to try to map out the story of the impact of slavery on Josephine’s life and the discovery of possible descendants they can use as a representative for the lawsuit.
I think Conklin is a great story teller and did a good job of fully utilizing her background in both history and law to really draw me into the book.
And yet, both women shared very important characteristics - big dreams and fierce determination.The House Girl is categorized as historical fiction and you will definitely gain a better understanding of the norm of cruelty, injustices, class structure and inequalities during this period of history.
Tara Conklin is a great story teller and The House Girl is well worth reading.
Conklin masterfully interweaves the stories of two women across time, a runaway slave in 1852 Virginia and a young lawyer in present-day New York, all while asking us to contemplate the nature of truth and justice in America.” Amy Greene, Author of Bloodroot“THE HOUSE GIRL stands as both a literary memorial to the hundreds of thousands of slaves once exploited in the American South and a mellifluous meditation on the mysterious bonds of family, the hopes and sorrows of human existence, and the timeless quest for freedom.” Corban Addison, Author of A Walk Across the Sun“THE HOUSE GIRL is a rarity, a novel that succeeds in fulfilling the highest of aspirations.
The two stories intersect when Lina hears about a folk artist whose paintings are thought to actually be the work of her house girl Josephine.
Josephine’s story - her life and her fierce determination to escape from servitude as a house slave – is compelling.
Unfortunately, the author’s decision to tell the last part of Josephine’s story using a witness’s letter distances the reader from her and lessens the emotional impact of the narrative.
The reader is expected to see parallels between Josephine and Lina’s determination, but Lina just comes across as flat next to the house girl.
Set simultaneously in 1850s Virginia and New York City (2004) and telling the stories of slave-girl Josephine and lawyer Lina, this may be the best dual-period book I’ve ever read.
Debut author Tara Conklin weaves two separate stories together like a beautiful tapestry, the past and the present blended artfully and skillfully.This is a story about art, and the power of brushstrokes to heal broken hearts from different worlds, different time periods.
A talented artist, Josephine's art work has been mis-attributed to her owner, and a controversial showing of the art provides Lina with her possible plaintiff.The novel alternates view points -- mostly between Josephine and Lina, but after half the book, with the characters who interacted with Josephine -- and I didn't mind the shift until near the end, when we learn about Josephine through written records of those with her.
We can have our own emotional responses separate of Lina's, and I appreciated that.Most importantly, tackling the issue of reparations in a book like this (this isn't a John Grishom novel) and making it real without preachy is key - and Conklin nailed it.
I really enjoyed House Girl by Tara Conklin.
And Conklin didn't disappoint...I felt a range of emotions (actually rage) as I read the stories of Josephine, Lewis, Boo, Lula and all the others who came before them or experienced the same cruelty.
Actually, why do black folks always have to wait!
I highly recommend House Girl to those who enjoy historical fiction and books about strong women of color as well as book clubs as this is a book that will make for a great discussion and one that you will probably think about long after you've read.
I had been interested in this book because the cover art is so beautiful, so when I saw it in the library & it was a selection for one of my bookclubs, I quickly picked it up.
It is a story that initially has two main characters - Josephine, who is a house girl in the 1800's in Virginia and Lina, who is a modern day young attorney.
I was more interested in the Josephine storyline - maybe because I like historical fiction more than contemporary.
What makes this book special is that the characters are flawed, but still inspirational.
I concluded that a series of failures had made him a bitter and brutal person and I think his reactions were sadly true to life when our dreams fall apart, but I wished I had been able to explore some of his mental processes.
The book was an easy read with a somewhat simple plot but hidden within the tapestry of the plot are several diverse threads that provide insights into the different ways that we humans are wired by God to live and think.
I think it would be a great book discussion group pick - there are many ares fertile for discussion.
The House Girl is a novel in the historical fiction genre that follows the formula of a present day story alternating chapters with a historical back story.
The back story is pretty basic, with a young house slave named Josephine who dreams of running away to freedom.
The present day story centers on a young lawyer who is given the opportunity to work on a potentially enormous and explosive class action lawsuit against the government and private corporations seeking reparations for slavery.
The problem with The House Girl is that the present day story is ridiculous.
Bringing a lawsuit seeking reparations?
3.5 Loved Josephine's part of the story, 1852 on a failing tobacco farm in Virgina, but Lina's in the present day, I did not find as enticing.
The author did a very credible job in seamlessly weaving the past with the present, but the present day story was a bit of a cliche for me.
Josephine, who wanted to run away, despite knowing other slaves who had their ankles cut for attempting the same thing, was a very likable character.
Lina, and her constant ruminating on billable hours, I think was meant as a reflection that she was a slave to her law firm, and only as valuable to them as the money she coud bill.
Audiobook #179This is the same narrator as The Hate You Give, so the voices are throwing me.

This story is amazing. I need not say more.
The one joy in her life, art, is even stolen from her by her "mistress" who despite her claims to be sorry, stands there and takes credit for the paintings and drawings done by her slave, Josephine.
And this continues long after her death.The story doesn't reveal a whole lot about her, really, even though we follow her at times.
Some of Josephine's tale is told by others, people who didn't even know her, yet her story kept continuing in my mind long after I turned the Kindle off.
I so badly wanted her to find joy, but the story ends realistically.
The author wrote well about being a lawyer in the North, but I got the feeling she has never visited Virginia and the areas she used as the setting for the main part of her story.
Otherwise, just use a fictional county or town so local readers are not taken aback.
The town the author calls "Stanton" is indeed pronounced that way, but spelled Staunton.
I know this doesn't seem like a big deal, but when I find errors like these throughout the book it just makes the whole thing seem distorted and fake.
Great book by an obviously very intelligent writer.
Audiobook performed by Bahni TurpinIn contemporary New York City, attorney Carolina Sparrow is working on an historic class-action lawsuit seeking reparations for the descendants of American slaves.
In 1852, Josephine is a house slave who tends to the mistress of a Virginia tobacco plantation; her mistress is the artist Lu Anne Bell.
The two stories converge when Lina hears of a controversy rocking the art world: art historians now suspect that the paintings ascribed to Lu Anne Bell may really have been painted by her slave girl, Josephine.
A descendant of Josephine would be the perfect “face” for the lawsuit – if Lina can find one.
There was no plot until the middle, if anyone even decides to wait that long.
I wanted Josephine's story to be full of drama and hoped her story would pick up but it didn't.
I skipped over whole long drawn out paragraphs and would take a look to see if I missed anything and I probably could've skipped over 2 pages and nothing would have happened to any of the characters.
It lacked a good plot, the story line wasn't strong and the characters were just boring human beings...
Just don't pick this up even if you see it for a $1...
This was okay. Not as great as all the hype made it out to be. Some of the narratives were long and drawn out especially in detail. I over looked a lot of that in order to finish the book. I did like how the two stories went well with each other.
