https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50696.The_Ghost_Writer
the boy ghost-writes the story of a girl's life.
he creates a narrative for the girl that barely takes the girl into consideration, except for the basic facts that she is a girl and, like the boy, a Jew.the boy has a father, a loving father.
and so the boy ghost-writes his own life, trying to imagine a new father figure, and after that person shows that he is unsuitable for the job, he imagines another person as his new father figure.
I loved its engagement with identity (Jewish and otherwise), with how we are defined and the conflict between how we define ourselves and how others may have a completely different definition of who we are.
Far and away, the best book I've read all year.
This is the type of book I always hope to encounter when I read fiction.
What's especially intriguing is that, from what I've read, Roth has sort of morphed into a Lonoff-type in the last few decades.
His alter ego in this book, the young Nathan Zuckerman, was enamored by Lonoff's work and wanted more than anything to know the artist.
Yet, now, as we look at the recently retired Roth's own life and history, the young apprentice has become the Lonoff.
I have my own kind of bravery, and please, let’s leave it at that.” ― Philip Roth, The Ghost Writer I've read a ton of Roth, but have yet to really engage the Zuckerman series.
The Ghost Writer is book one in the four book cycle Zuckerman Bound:1.
The Ghost Writer (1979)2.
Zuckerman Unbound (1981)3.
The Prague Orgy (1985)It is hard to engage some of the more specific reasons WHY I loved this book -- without giving away some of the more the dramatic elements.
[2018]Periodicamente qualcuno mi chiede quale libro leggere di Philip Roth.
Oppure quale leggere dopo Pastorale americana.
Se non altro per arrivare di nuovo all'esilarante e malinconica tirata finale della moglie di Lonoff, il grande scrittore ammirato dal giovane Zuckermann, che inizia qui a diventare l'alter ego principale di Philip.E anche per leggere del metodo seguito dal medesimo grande scrittore Lonoff quando si dedica agli "scrittori seri": «Non rendeva giustizia a uno scrittore se non lo leggeva per qualche giorno consecutivamente e per almeno tre ore di fila.
Nathan has published four stories at this early time in his career, and because of the early buzz gets invited to stay overnight at Lonoff’s house, where he finds his hero morose and a little resentful of the writing life, having published seven books but always working.
Quite a bit of the focus of the early book was on the writing life, discussions between the earnest young Nathan and his somewhat jaded newly adopted mentor.Lonoff says, speaking somewhat unromantically of the writing life: “I turn sentences around.

However, as the story progresses, as we get to know more about Nathan, and Lonoff and his wife and his student Amy, we come to realise that Roth’s novel is far more than merely a rewrite of Bellow’s, that is has great depth and richness.
Indeed, it is a more profound read than Humboldt’s Gift itself.It is perhaps half way into the book that Nathan tells a story about a story [The Ghost Writer was written during Roth’s meta phase] he wrote and mailed to his father.
Nathan and his father fall out over the story, and by the time he visits Lonoff they still haven’t patched things up.“I turn sentences around.
Essere al cospetto di un mostro sacro della letteratura, spiarne le abitudini, coglierne suo malgrado i segreti, intessere ipotesi plausibili e farneticanti sulla sua vita è ciò che il giovane sarà impegnato a fare nei due giorni trascorsi in casa Lonoff.
Che cosa significhi dedicare la vita a “girare le frasi” e che cosa significhi diventare un fantasma, ovvero fuggire la fama del mondo, la sua acuminata curiosità, Zuckerman è destinato a scoprirlo ben presto, almeno in forma di conoscenza indiretta, prima che come esperienza diretta (ciò che accadrà nel secondo romanzo della serie).L’abilità di Roth a costruire una realtà parallela e corrispondente alla sua attraverso i romanzi è già matura e destinata a future elaborazioni.
Eppure mi è difficile pensare di scrivere qualcosa su "Lo scrittore fantasma" - e su Philip Roth in genere - pensando che ci sarà qualcuno che leggerà le mie parole, perché sono abbastanza sicura di non essere in grado di rendere appieno tutto quello che vorrei dire.
Защото в противен случай ще откриваме само семпъл сюжет и претенциозно посвещение (На Милан Кундера), както и посоки на размисъл, вече срещани в по-рано издаваните му заглавия: мястото на евреите в следвоенна Америка и антисемитизма, мястото на изкуството в реалността, както и точно обратното - тежестта на ежедневното върху изкуството, невъзможността да се откъснеш от влиянието на семейството, изстиналите и все пак непрекратени съпружески отношения, изневярата.Само че трябва да имаме предвид, че това е същият онзи писател, който казва за себе си, че е посветил живота си на романа, "изучавах го, преподавах го, писах го и го четох".
OK, so I read my Roth.
Check.
Haven't read him since the 80s, when I picked up Portnoy's Complain.
Or maybe it was Goodbye, Columbus.
Does it matter?This one was short (not all Roths are), well-written (I'm assuming all Roths are), and a "tweener" in that I could've 3-starred it as easily as 4-starred it but the 3.5 star is broken.
For one, not much happens.
Oh. And, from the frantic imagination of Z-man, one hell of a cameo by Anne Frank, setting up one of the funniest lines about overzealous Jewish parents you'll ever read.RIP, good Mr. Roth.
I have a feeling Roth is one of those authors you read to make yourself feel smarter and end up questioning the number of IQ points you have.
Big woo.Maybe I missed something here, on the greater role the story plays in regards to society or some such nonsense, which is what makes me think my intelligence may not be up to the task of figuring out what the hell was so great about this book.I tried reading The Human Stain some time ago.
Big woo.Sigh.
And I did so want to feel smarter for having read your work.
We might have charged the stage to eat him up alive if he had been any more sly and enchanting and wise.”The second chapter concludes with Zuckerman masturbating on Lonoff’s study sofa to thoughts of Amy Bellette, reading a Henry James short story about a writer with an adoring acolyte (to “expiate” for the masturbation), and eavesdropping through the floorboards on a possibly racy scene upstairs between Lonoff and Amy.My attention began to waver as Zuckerman launched on his Anne Frank fantasy, and I tried to figure out: is this in Amy’s head?
In meno di 150 pagine, un prodigioso romanzo di Philip Roth che contiene materiali vari (metanarrazione, racconti su racconti) e maneggia con maestria una complessità straordinaria. Meraviglioso.
If you're someone who's interested in the way writers think, you should enjoy it.
Example: the narrator's lament about his imagination being lacking, that he could never invent a scene like the one he's just overheard, is both playful and serious.It was also fun to speculate on whom Roth might be basing his fictional 'big' literary figures.
The narrator, talking to his literary hero, makes a case for linking these fictional literary figures with a real writer, Isaac Babel.
Lonoff sums up his life: "I wish," he said, "I knew that much about anything.
I've written fantasy for thirty years.
Nothing happens to me." ...“I turn sentences around.
That’s my life.
I write a sentence and then I turn it around.
Then I look at it and I turn it around again.
Then I have lunch.
Then I come back in and write another sentence.
Then I have tea and turn the new sentence around.
Then I read the two sentences over and turn them both around.
Then I lie down on my sofa and think.
A literary critic for the Chicago Tribune once wrote that "in American literature today, there's Philip Roth, and then there's everybody else." I couldn't agree more. Roth is, without doubt, my favorite writer of all time.*4.75/5 stars*The Ghost Writer was a 1980 Pulitzer Prize finalist, a 1980 National Book Critics Circle Award (NBCCA) finalist & a 1980 National Book Award finalist.
And Roth brings these characters to life not by endless, boring description but by telling us stories about them; he understands that the key to understanding someone is far more than describing personality traits or likes and dislikes: rather, to get to know a person, we need to know that person's story.***SPOILER ALERT***I really loved the third chapter in The Ghost Writer, "Femme Fatale," in which the protagonist, Nathan Zuckerman, lets his imagination run wild and speculates that the enchanting and mysterious Amy, whom he has just met, is actually Anne Frank, who, unbeknownst to anyone, managed to survive the Holocaust and keep her true identity a secret to the world.
Nathan Zuckerman reminded me of Herzog a bit.
This first book of the Zuckerman Bound series was funny and witty and quite ingenious with the first person narrative and the frequent flights of narrative fantasy.
I fear that delving too much into the other characters would spoil the pleasure for a potential reader so let me just say that Roth here turns simple overnight story with four characters into a Calvino-esque reflection on the distance between the writer and his written subject.
Zuckerman, Lonoff, Amy, Hope.4 personaggi per una storia che pare semplice ma poi inizia ad intricarsi.Flashback che crescono come torri di mattoncini colorati.L’olocausto, Anne Frank, le colline innevate del New England.Riflessioni portentose sulla sofferenza e il dolore.Antisemitismo e ambiguità.Forse un buco di sceneggiatura c’è.
Anche se fosse - ed è molto più probabile che io abbia perso qualche filo - direi che me ne fotto abbastanza.Non sarà uno dei capolavori di Roth - che poi, che palle sta cosa di andare sempre e solo a cercare i capolavori - ma io l'ho trovato di una bellezza rassicurante.Ecco, io non la definirei una “storia carina”.
This is my favorite of his novels, I think. Or at least it is this week.
yazarın kendi üzerine psikolojik bir inceleme yaparken önemli toplumsal olayları irdelemesi etkileyici
Hayalet Yazar'ı ise Sokaktaki Adam ve Öfke'deki tarzından üslup olarak farklı ama anlatım biçimi olarak benzer şekilde oluşturmuş.
Edebiyatı doğrudan tema olarak aldığını görünce meraklanmıştım genel olarak ama Philip Roth'un derdi doğrudan edebiyat değil, yazarın kendisi bu kitapta.
Yani derdi doğrudan cinsellik olmayan, ama erotizmi ve cinsel gerilimi oluşturabilmesi bir yazarın, bana beceri işi gibi geliyor.
Piyasada porno izlemeyi "doğru" bulmayan kadınlar için yazılmış binlerce erotik kitaptaki en büyük eksiğin erotizm olması ise, bunun en azından belli bir miktarda zekâ gerektirdiğini doğrular nitelikte.
Ben bunu eleştirmiyorum, ama belki de benim eksikliğimden kaynaklanan bir şekilde, ben kitaplardaki kadın karakterlerin neden var olduğunu anlayamıyorum.
«اگر قرار بود کسی به او به چشم آدمی استثنایی نگاه کند، نباید به خاطر آشویتس و بلزن این کار را میکرد، بلکه همه میبایست بهخاطر کارهایی که او بعد از آن ماجرا انجام داده بود به دیدهی تحسین نگاهش میکردند.»این عبارت شاید خلاصهای از کتاب باشد، که وضعیت یهودیان را با دلسوزی نباید دید.کتاب کتاب خوبی بود اما سهیل سمی با ترجمهاش خراب کرده بودش. *فیلم لیسنآپ فیلیپ یک بخشهای قابل مقایسهای با این کتاب دارد. مثلا نویسندهی جوان شیفتهی نویسندهی مسن است. البته در فیلم هر دو نویسنده شدیدا مغرورند و در کتاب متواضع.
«اگر قرار بود کسی به او به چشم آدمی استثنایی نگاه کند، نباید به خاطر آشویتس و بلزن این کار را می‌کرد، بلکه همه می‌بایست به‌خاطر کارهایی که او بعد از آن ماجرا انجام داده بود به دیده‌ی تحسین نگاهش می‌کردند.»این عبارت شاید خلاصه‌ای از کتاب باشد، که وضعیت یهودیان را با دلسوزی نباید دید.کتاب کتاب خوبی بود اما سهیل سمی با ترجمه‌اش خراب کرده بودش.
*فیلم لیسن‌آپ ‌فیلیپ یک بخش‌های قابل مقایسه‌ای با این کتاب دارد.
مثلا نویسنده‌ی جوان شیفته‌ی نویسنده‌ی مسن است.
نویسنده‌ی مسن شیطنت‌های رابطه‌ای دارد.
It seems that Roth has a real way with complaining is what I should say.There is an air of complaining in this book since Zuckerman goes through some inner dialogue and recounts past events which cause some annoyance for him but not enough I guess for my liking.The characters are great, odd enough for me, but I guess the build up in the middle of the story didn't seem interesting for me.
The book ended great and I want to read more of Zuckerman because of it, I didn't really care for his ponderings but I guess I wanna know what becomes of Lonoff.
A young writer spends a weekend with his idol, who is a celebrated novelist, the novelist’s wife, and a mysterious young woman whom they are also hosting.
Philip Roth’s short novel is beautifully written and rich with meditations on whether the writer’s responsibility to his art overrides the discomfort it may produce in the people in his life and community.
Indeed, it raises the question of whether producing such discomfort may be the serious writer’s most important function.
It may seem a little too “inside baseball” for those who aren’t inherently fascinated by the art of writing, just as movies about making movies can seem to me.

I liked this, but it felt too short to show off Roth's brilliance. My favorites of his are the in-depth character portraits. To think what this supple mind could have done with that familial story! Oy vey.
The "story" seemed to move a bit slow and didn't really have the "action" of many other writers, but I like his focus on complex issues and social perceptions that are examined from an allegorical, a metaphorical bent.
It didn't really knock me over like some of the 5-star books I've read lately, but it was definitely intriguing enough to set me on a quest of 14 more Roth books, like it did my dad, to see his take on other such complex ideas, issues, and perceptions with other such examinations.
And since Cormac ain't putting out for me, I thought I'd satiate some reading urges by digging into some of million-and-six books of Roth's that I hadn't yet gotten into.So here, the Zuckerman saga begins...I've heard interviews with Roth where he's discussed how some books start with a time or an idea and then builds into character, and this seems to be no exception.
Ambitious from the start, the Zuckerman saga will wow you on new perspectives on Judaism and the struggles of writing and living with one's own art.
