https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/459386.The_Mermaids_Singing
That's how this novel was recommended for me; This series is perfect for fans of The X-Files and Cormoran Strike. Like I'm not obsessed enough..And now I pass the recommendation for every “Criminal Profiling” cases fans..from the early “Jack the Ripper’s Case, Sherlock’s Cases, to Scarlet from 'Silence of the Lambs'.The art of getting INSIDE the Criminal's Mind..you'll experience it here.. depressingly well.This is my first read for Val McDermid, and she truly surprised me.She gives the characte
By half of the novel the pages will turn way faster than the first half.The slowness at first cause of building two things;1) The Characters;-------------The ProfilerThe author captured brilliantly the feeling of A Man who lives in the minds of the criminals.Doctor Tony Hill, the ‘Profiler’, this profession that were hugely highlighted in the 90s , mostly cause of the huge media interest after the Glamorous Jodie Foster’s performance in The Silence of the Lambs.Later there was many TV show caring for this ‘new’ deal, though it can be tracked to the nineteenth century with Jack the Ripper’s case , even Sherlock’s adventures.It seems here in the novel weren't that popular in the Police headquarters.So Dr. Tony not only his first job there is hard and mysterious but also he must prove himself to the doubtful colleagues.Also his love ‘more sexual’ life is a wreck, due to his real perfect doing of his work..
I have rarely seen writing like this in the popular thrillers of today.
I should also mention that despite this novel being published in 1995, other than Carol often needing her DC to find her a phone and the cops not being very computer savvy, the story did not feel like a throwback tale.Another plus is the excerpts from the killer’s diary, which give us a window to his background and thought processes.I liked DI Carol Jordan and Dr. Tony Hill.
From the last sentence in the book, I can see there are going to be struggles for Tony in the books ahead.
The killer uses instruments of torture which are really appalling to imagine, but leaving some of the descriptions of them unread did not spoil the book for me.The character of Tony Hill is a masterpiece, so clever and together in some ways yet so lacking in others.
In fact all of the characters are well drawn although just occasionally tending towards stereotypes.I loved the pacing of the book, the way the killers actions are inserted into the main story and the details of the police work.
does make for a better story!
This is the first time I’ve read a Val McDermid book, and now I see why she is an international #1 bestselling, award-winning author.
The book starts with the very first entry and showed me that this guy is one of the most sinister antagonists I’ve ever encountered.
McDermid doesn’t hold back on describing what this guy does.
My library didn’t have them all, but the missing books are now on their way to me.I want to thank Chris for her review and to Heather for the second nudge to read this book.
And with thanks to Maureen, I have A Place of Execution sitting here to be read soon.
This was fantastic. It had a little bit of this and a little bit of that and lets not forget this It was nice to see men being the victims for once. It was disturbing at times, and maybe that was why I loved it.
I don't know how this was quite possible, since I saw the Wire in the Blood series based on these books when it was first broadcast here, but apparently I either forgot this particular plot twist or repressed it out of dire hate.
Disgusted, also, with the fact this particular storyline is still blazingly popular, and bought by many people, including me (even if I didn't know - I should have checked the ending like I always do).
I bought several books by this author, including this one, on sale but don't know if I want to read the others now.
4.5 stars Several years ago now, I read the T.S. Eliot poem from which this book takes its title, "The Love Song of J.
She's told to work with Tony Hill, who is trying to establish criminal profiling as a legitimate means of crime solving - amidst as much push-back from the "Real" police who of course know best.
The story is told through alternating perspectives: Tony & Carol's investigation (mainly focusing on Tony as the "main" character), and the killer's personal journals detailing the thoughts and deeds of a very depraved and dangerous mind.
I have only read a couple of Val McDermid's books but have enjoyed them and intend to read more in the future.This is the 1st book in the Tony Hill and Carol Jordan series and is an excellent start. The characters are meaty and I can imagine they offer a lot of chances to develop further in future books. Quite gruesome in places as it describes a killer who is obsessed with ancient torture methods. I feel confident that this series will only get better.

This is the first in the continuing series of DI Carol Jordan and criminal profiler Dr. Tony Hill and I don't think any other of the books (I have read a couple) is as intense or as graphic as this one.Four young men, who have no connection to each other, are found, battered and broken and obviously tortured horribly before they were killed.
There is a serial killer on the loose and has committed the perfect crimes......so far.
Although the police have little faith in criminal profiling, Jordan and Hill team up to approach these crimes from a psychological standpoint.
A chilling, thrilling, E-Ticket ride!
Val McDermid does not disappoint in the first entry of her Tony Hill/Carol Jordan series.
The diary entries from the killer are some of the most chilling things I have read.
His research in to medieval torture devices is both fascinating and sickening at the same time.
I have to admit there were a couple times where I had to put the book down just from the sheer anticipation of what was coming next.
The interaction between Dr. Hill and Inspector Jordan is great...lots of room for growth individually and in their relationship.

Second, if you are a political activist or have PTSD or you simply react quickly to perceived prejudices first and ask questions later, and tend to see " ______" bashing (fill in the blank, i.e., LGBT, women, police) in fiction which depicts, to me, otherwise realistic situations which, while they reflect real true-life instances of criminal behavior we have all read about or seen in the news (also, in my personal life experience, I witnessed a slow-motion mental crash and subsequent hospitalization of a transgender individual in college), this book may have you writing nasty comments and protesting.
After the third body is found, Assistant Chief Constable John Brandon does what Detective Superintendent Tom Cross will not – he admits, as many have believed all along, that these heinous acts were committed by one person, and he calls upon the Home Office’s profiler, Tony Hill, to consult on the case.Hill is paired with Detective Inspector Carol Jordan, and this proves to be a good match, in many ways.
I think I will enjoy reading more about Tony Hill and Carol Jordan.The supporting characters were well written too.
McDermid takes the reader down the path of numerous sub-plots while presenting a fascinating main tale to capture the attention of all who dare to explore.
While Carol Jordan is tasked with leading the investigation, she's tossed a helper/hindrance in the form of Dr. Tony Hill, Home Office criminal psychologist whose tasked with creating a database useful to tracking serials murderers.
Through their teamwork and respective expertise, Jordan and Hill begin to get a better idea of the cunning murderer they seek, but not before more bodies pile up and the killings become more and more gruesome.
I like books and TV that take a look at the darker side of life, but the torture scenes were unneccessary and extremely gratuitous (sp?).
There was no depth to their narrative and, to me, if you're going to write about a killer in that way, you need to infuse them with more depth.
And I am disgusted by animal cruelty of any kind and, yes, this scene was hard to handle.
What I find harder to handle is the way that people are taking issue with that scene - as opposed to the others in which the killer tortures various human men.
This one is over my gruesome quotient. You won't fall out of interest to what happens next, and the psychological analysis is not exactly "wrong"- but it is troublesome. This series is not for the faint of heart or cozy mystery readers.
The mind of a killer may be an uncomfortable place to be, but the reader can easily imagine the kind of pain and suffering that led to that dark and twisted place.The book is full of a mixture of human weakness and strength, darkness and light.
The pages of this book are the grey areas of all human behaviour.
There are no easy answers and although some may find these books unsettling and uncomfortable to read, for those willing and eager to delve into the dark places of the human mind, I highly recommend this book.
And that's pretty impressive, considering books featuring a maladjusted trouble-magnet who does criminal profiling are a huge weakness of mine.
But I don't think my emotional needle so much as quivered, except for occasional flickers of annoyed disgust at the violence, which has that smug, gloating feel you get with over-the-top torture scenes that serve no narrative end except to .
be torture.That, and I'm supposed to be interested in a criminal profiler who gives the unsubs personalizing nicknames, has deep emo pain about gazing into the abyss, and forgets to profile the unsub's race?
I think not.
"Como é óbvio, a descoberta de que se tem um talento natural para alguma coisa não significa necessariamente que devamos seguir cegamente esse caminho."Val McDermid deve ter pensado o oposto desta citação do seu livro, seguindo assim o caminho do seu talento natural, a escrita.
Infelizmente, o seu primeiro livro da série de Tony Hill e Carol Jordan revelou-se uma desilusão tão grande que me impedirá de ler os seguintes.Todos os elementos esperados estão presentes nesta história: personagens principais com problemas pessoais que os impedem de se relacionar com os outros normalmente, a sugestão e o desenvolvimento de um romance de forma previsível e maçadora e a hostilidade da policia perante os profissionais das outras áreas.
Sem dúvida um livro que mexeu comigo, tal era o horror descrito nas mais variadas situações em que o assassino colocava as suas vítimas!Numa única frase... HORRIVELMENTE BRILHANTE!!;)
I got quite far into the series, I seem to remember.
I don't like pornographic violence (torture porn).
I love gore; horror; crime; deviant psychology; and all the other elements of great serial killing novels, but I don't like reading about exquisitely detailed torture written not to enhance the writing or the plot but to titillate the reader.
I have a character in one of my novels, Nikolas, who was a torturer, before life and his relationships redeemed him, and he refuses to either read or watch torture porn (Hostel, Serbian Film, for example).
Val McDermid is one of the luminaries of British crime fiction.
This novel has predominantly four and five star ratings on Goodreads.
It won the CWA Award for best crime novel of 1995.
The writing is, at best, unsophisticated.
All the characters speak with exactly the same voice, and they all express themselves like bad actors in an amateur dramatics production, constantly addressing each other by name in a manner that never occurs in real conversations.
Cliches occur with tiresome regularity.
For example:"This makes it a whole new ball game," Tony said, his face sombre.
"It certainly ups the stakes," Carol said.
I completely lost all sense of time and I had to stay up till late because I couldn’t sleep without finishing this book.(view spoiler)[I even dreamed that someone was ringing the doorbell: when I opened the door there was an old woman who wanted to kill me.
I woke up screaming!
(hide spoiler)]Despite the fact that this was an uncomfortable and at times disquieting read, I really liked it.Slightly politically incorrect, probably due to the fact that it has been published many years ago‘Not all gay men dislike women,’ Tony said mildly.
Not really a review, but about 50 pages from the end of the book I realised I had seen the Wire in the Blood episode of this one. Took me a while. Still really enjoyed it anyway.
Having read the sequels in the series before reading the first ones,I was quite impressed by the chemistry the duo shared,and it seems a pleasant thing to read about their first meeting after a long while.
Serial killer thrillers aren't regular with me these days..
Val McDermid isn't a name any serious psychological thriller reader can avoid..
Like all other books penned by her,this one retains the suspense till the end.
Even though I had my own doubts,I was nowhere near getting the killer till the very end..
A really interesting thriller,but because of the real bloody murder scenes and explicit sexual descriptions and extreme violence,deliberate for a while before you pick this book.
So with great anticipation I set off on my re-read of all Val McDermids novels and I began with “The Mermaids Singing” the first in the series featuring Tony Hill and Carol Jordan.In Bradfield the bodies of four men have been discovered…with the police reluctant to link them Dr Tony Hill is already certain that a serial killer is operating in the area.
The mystery element, as will become a trend in the series, is pyschologically complicated and compelling…and it makes for an involving read.The seeds of the ongoing relationship between Tony and Carol is astutely done..once you have finished this you will want to know whats next.
This is the book which introduced Tony Hill and Carol Jordan.
At first the police are reluctant to label the muders as a serial killing however, as the bodies begin to pile up they are forced to call in profiler Tony Hill.
He teams up with DI Carol Jordan and attempts to get to the bottom of these killings.I enjoyed this book immensely however, be warned that the murders are quite violent and the author describes them in vivid detail.
He also is suffering from severe sexual dysfunction which prevents him from establishing a realationship with a woman.

Weird and revolting. Loved it. Val McDermid is great. I will continue to read this series. Interested to see where it goes.
