https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9568575-all-our-worldly-goods
The plot gets even more complicated a generation later when the old man’s granddaughter (daughter of the spurned lover) falls in love with the son of the man who spurned her.
Long story short: I think it should be translated as “The Good Things of Life” because that is the point of it --- carrying on and surviving and enjoying life despite wars and deaths of loved ones.
The author tells us that as men get exhausted in battle they lose their individuality and come to feel that what is important is that the good things of life will carry on even if THEY themselves will not be around to enjoy them.
Sinceramente, no sé qué le ha faltado para que no le dé las cinco estrellas. Es una delicia. Me ha encantado el estilo narrativo de la escritora, ese describir con pocas palabras el amor y el sufrimiento; el miedo y el horror de la guerra.
But I also had a hard time reading it.What made this book difficult for me is that it's exactly what its cover claims: "a novel of love between the wars." Nemirovsky writes as if she were simply an exceptionally observant, sharp-witted French woman sketching out the lives of a couple who are required to witness two wars.
France and Germany saw her as a Jew. She and her husband, far from living out their days together, died separately in the Holocaust.
Their two very young daughters narrowly escaped the same fate.Given how eagerly France worked with the Nazis to murder their own citizens, it was wrenching for to me to read a "French" novel by one of their victims.
Una guerra que parecía imposible y que creían que duraría poco despertó a una generación que pocos años después tuvo que ver cómo ellos mismo y sus hijos se enfrentaban de nuevo al mismo horror.
Irene Nemirovsky nos muestra a través de sus personajes como la vida de estos se ve alterada a través de los años por estos sucesos.
Todo esto en una novela que no llega a a las 300 páginas y que pese al momento que narra consigue que al final mires la vida pensando que siempre hay salida.Me hubiera gustado que apareciera un poco más el periodo de entreguerras, pero muchos párrafos compensan la falta.Recomendable.
Reading this book, you feel the horrible and wonderful sweep of history and fate.
Wonderful in that love, however embattled, seems to find its home over and over again in this book (lovers find each other, children are born, people are forgiven) – horrible in that the modern reader knows the devastation of each world war looming around the corner.
Knowing, too, that Nemirovsky herself was a victim of the holocaust – she died in a concentration camp in 1942 – I felt her own death looming as the events of the book marched steadily towards the second world war.
Un’altra guerra. Non si dovrebbe vedere una cosa simile due volte .Un romanzo maturo della Némirovsky, quasi una prova per la successiva “Suite”, di cui propone e anticipa temi, ambienti, luoghi, atmosfere… Una specie di saga, quella degli Hardelot, che ripercorre la vita e le consuetudini di una borghesia francese di provincia, a cavallo delle due guerre; le generazioni si succedono a Saint-Elme, un piccolissimo paese del Passo di Calais al confine col Belgio, tra amori, difficoltà, smarriment
.Un romanzo maturo della Némirovsky, quasi una prova per la successiva “Suite”, di cui propone e anticipa temi, ambienti, luoghi, atmosfere… Una specie di saga, quella degli Hardelot, che ripercorre la vita e le consuetudini di una borghesia francese di provincia, a cavallo delle due guerre; le generazioni si succedono a Saint-Elme, un piccolissimo paese del Passo di Calais al confine col Belgio, tra amori, difficoltà, smarrimenti; ipocrisie, invidie; invasioni, sfollamenti,… che, a distanza di cinque lustri si ripetono invariati: si ha l’impressione di un ciclo che si richiude, di vite che si perpetuano una nell'altra, del corso della Storia che si replica attraverso le storie quotidiane.
After having just recently read and enjoyed Suite Française, I decided to read another one of Irène Némirovsky's books.
I can say now that I would love to read any book written by her.
I enjoyed All Our Worldly Goods so much that I read it in only two days.
It can be read as a prequel of sorts to Suite Française.
The war will end, we will all disappear, but these humble and innocent gifts will remain: the cool air, the sun, a red apple, a fire in winter, a woman, children, the life we lead each day...
in lucid and elegant prose that is at once both panoramic and intimate this short work details, through the affairs of one family, the devastation of war.I expect I will write a better review when I have stopped crying
I’ve been a longtime fan of Irene Nemirovsky’s and promised myself to eventually read everything she wrote.
This novel was absolutely beautiful as all of her works, with its lyrical mood of France caught up between the two wars and the setting that just comes alive in front of your eyes.
Irene Nemirovsky is known for writing the most beautiful and profound family sagas, and this novel was not an exception.
The mood of war-torn France is delivered with painstaking precision, just like the traditional family mindset that ruled over many households in the beginning of the 20th century.
"D'accordo, verrai, ma aspetta un po', aspetta che abbia costruito questa casa, piantato quest'albero, fatto sposare mio figlio, aspetta che non abbia più voglia di vivere» scriveva, e cantava dell'amore di Pierre e Agnés, di quell'amore nato tra una guerra e l'altra, di quell'amore che aveva sfidato tutto e tutti, attraversato quarant'anni di storia, in quello che sembra un meraviglioso cartone preparatorio per quella Suite Francese che doveva essere il suo affresco più bello e che invece vedrà la luce solo dopo la sua morte: cantava piena di speranza e di dolcezza, ignara del fatto che a lei, quella proroga, non sarebbe stata concessa.Piena di speranza, scriveva «La guerra finirà, finiremo anche noi, ma questi piaceri semplici e innocenti ci saranno sempre: la freschezza, il sole, una mela rossa, il fuoco acceso in inverno, una donna, dei bambini, la vita di ogni giorno...
It's difficult to separate the novel   All Our Worldly Goods   from the true story of what happened to Irene Nemirovsky. This book is haunting, in large part because I could feel the ghost of the author, looking over my shoulder, begging me to understand.I've read several reviews of this book and it seems that many people felt unsatisfied because they weren't sure how they were supposed to feel, or what lessons they were supposed to take from the story. For me, that was the power of this book. I
This book is haunting, in large part because I could feel the ghost of the author, looking over my shoulder, begging me to understand.I've read several reviews of this book and it seems that many people felt unsatisfied because they weren't sure how they were supposed to feel, or what lessons they were supposed to take from the story.
I believe that everyone who reads it will take something different from it.It is a tale of true love, of a couple who's willing to turn their backs on arranged marriages that will surely lead to simple lives, and who instead embark on a life together that's full of hardship.
La trama snocciola con rigore matematico – in trenta capitoli fin troppo agili – le vicende di due famiglie nel corso della prima metà del Novecento.Ci sono il decoro dei valori borghesi, gli amori contrastati, due guerre mondiali, gli assalti della modernità e del capitalismo.La scrittura scorre facile e limpida e ha di certo una sua forza in particolare nel tratteggiare le inclinazioni umane.Però il libro non lascia né un senso profondo di bellezza né un quadro più ampio che vada oltre le storie dei singoli personaggi.Manca di profondità morale, di grande respiro. Manca la risonanza della tragedia.Finale consolatorio. [65/100]
"La gente aspettava la guerra come l'uomo aspetta la morte: sa che non le sfuggirà, gli sia concessa soltanto una proroga. 'D'accordo, verrai, ma aspetta un po', aspetta che abbia costruito questa casa, piantato quest'albero, fatto sposare mio figlio, aspetta che non abbia più voglia di vivere'. Alla guerra si chiedevano le stesse cose. Ancora qualche mese di tranquillità, ancora un anno, ancora una stagione dolce e spensierata".
Bello, commovente, pieno di speranza. Finora mi sembra il più bello tra quelli di Irene che ho letto.Che donna che è stata; che ricchezza di sentimenti e affetti!
I listened to this on audio last week, read by Eleanor Bron, and I did wonder whether a faster reading of the print book would have felt as bleak as the audio sometimes did.
Then again, I had a similar impression from Nemirovsky's Suite Francaise, and that one I read in print.However, in spite of the bleakness, the story is a worthwhile read.
I haven't read anything about WWI and WWII from the perspective of a civilian living in or around Paris, so close to the battlefronts and so accustomed to having their town destroyed and rebuilt and destroyed and rebuilt.

I adore Irene Nemirovsky's writing. When I read her books, I feel overwhelming sadness because I know her history, that her voice was stilled too soon. All Our Worldly Goods is just as wonderful as Suite Francaise; the good thing is that it is a 'finished' novel I highly recommend this novel to everyone who loves Irene Nemirovsky...and exquisite, perfect, detailed writing. I can think of no writer who is similar to Nemirovsky; she was just so perfect.
Un libro corto, pero lleno de emociones. Muy bueno
Un affresco della vita di quegli anni, ma anche della Vita in toto ché la speranza che il peggio sia passato, che il futuro sia sereno e che le brutture a noi non possano accadere è di tutti.Un romanzo sull'amore e sulla guerra, sulla Donna in particolare e sul suo rapporto con gli uomini, sull'incoscienza della gioventù contrapposta alla saggezza di chi, più anziano, ha già vissuto tutto sulla propria pelle.
Commuove il sapere che, per quanto concerne la parte del romanzo che parla della Seconda Guerra Mondiale, l'autrice scriveva a ridosso degli eventi e viveva lei stessa in prima persona le atrocità che quella guerra ha comportato.
Tante responsabilità, tante angosce e tante prove: insomma, i doni che la vita ci offre." E responsabilità, angosce e prove percorrono la storia degli Hardelot e con loro si percorrono trent'anni di storia francese, da quelli che precedettero la 1° guerra mondiale a quelli che vedranno (nel momento stesso in cui Némirovsky racconta, ) l'occupazione della Francia da parte dei tedeschi.
E fra tutti i libri della Némirovsky finora letti, amo particolarmente "I doni della vita" per il respiro più ampio, lo sguardo più profondo che si sposta dall'introspezione psicologica alle dinamiche relazionali dei personaggi, e per le tematiche complesse come quelle della vita, della morte, della guerra, dell'amore.
She has real insight into human relationships and emotions and how that effects our decisions and the way we act. Her stories are moving and her characters are so real that you want to fight for them.
An interesting perspective on the war - from the people left behind and the trials they must endure. A story of generations of a rich and privileged family - their loves and losses - experiencing the same heartbreaks and deprivations as the lower classes. A good translation from French.
This is much more precise and concise than Suite Francaise. It made me wonder whether Nemirovsky intended to go back and edit the first two parts of Suite Francaise but never got the chance.
Es lo primero que leo de Némirovsky y me sorprendió bastante. Lo que resalta en esta novela es el manejo del tiempo y el complejo trabajo que hace que cada capítulo sea una progresión de la historia que puede abarcar desde un corto período hasta varios años.Es agradable de leer y su trama abarca casi tres generaciones de las familias de un pueblo. Me resultó muy entretenida.
He leído mucho de esta autora, todo me ha gustado muchísimo, este me ha cautivado de principio a fin. Tiene todos los ingredientes de una gran novela.“...había hecho acopio de todos los bienes de este mundo, toda la amargura y la dulzura de la tierra habían dado su fruto.”
Maravillosa. Emocionante hasta las lágrimas. Una vez más, la autora, traza una crónica del periodo de entreguerras hasta el desmoronamiento final que debería leerse junto a los libros de historia. Una narración que vale casi al mismo nivel que cualquier obra histórica de la época. Hay amor, hay dinero, clases sociales, derrumbe político, económico. Lo tiene todo. Con este tipo de novela, se aprende y se siente. Uno renace más sabio y más compasivo. Así debe ser la literatura.
She redeems herself tho when she (view spoiler)[ risks her life to seek out said daughter-in-law, who is super pregnant, and daughter-in-law's dying mother, who has never been anything but nasty to Agnes, knowing full well that she may be killed in the attempt and/or never see her husband again, finds them shelter in a chaotic evacuation, delivers her first grandchild with a random nun and her son's evil ex-mistress, and gives the last of her petrol to ex-mistress in an act of supreme charity.
During World War II, she was arrested and sent to Auschwitz, where she died.I fell for her writing when I read Suite Francaise several years ago.
Published in French, the novel has been translated into English and is now being published in the United States.As with Suite Francaise, in All Our Worldly Goods Nemirovsky again writes an elegant and beautiful book.
Who simply didn't believe they could go on.Yet, in all the pain and depression of the war, Nemirovsky shows in her novels that life continues--people are born and die.
The reader will observe the goods life will give to Agnes and Pierre, able to oppose to traditions and rules in order to marry, a life rich in problems and sufferance.Their life will meet others: their parents, their children and other more hostile; lives crossing and influencing the others, always keeping some appearances to the external world.The author wrote this novel in the meanwhile of the German invasion and some time before being deported and dying in Auschwitz.
Anyone who enjoyed Irene Nemirovsky's Suite Française will surely love All Our Worldly Goods just as much.
Though the original French must be even better, these translations by Sandra Smith are wonderful.Nemirovsky was killed at Auschwitz before she could finish Suite Française, but All Our Worldly Goods is a complete novel.
It's set in France from 1911, just before the start of WWI, to 1940, shortly after the beginning of WWII, and it tells the tangled story of three families from a small village.
Pierre Hardelot's family owns the village factory and at the opening of the book he is set to do what his family wants and marry Simone Renaudin, an orphaned and wealthy heiress.
