https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/906575.The_Discovery_of_Freedom
Highly recommended.March 27, 2017:I actually listened to the audiobook version of this edition from Laissez Faire Books.
I had read Henry Grady Weaver's "The Mainspring of Human Progress" (published by FEE.org), based on "The Discovery of Freedom" and liked that too.
Many libertarians, including Roy Childs had urged me to read "The Discovery of Freedom" too, and I think I even had a paperback copy at some point.
But I always had too many books to read for my limited time.
American history, European history, and the history of the Middle-East are all subjects that are cherry-picked and shaped by Lane.The Discovery of Freedom was published in 1943 and leaders of the time used similar methods to educate their citizens with their own versions of the truth.
While Lane wants people to abandon their presumed religious beliefs in their Government, it becomes apparent that she is perfectly willing to accept a faith-based conversion to her point of view and to have the newly converted pre-programmed with her spoon-fed Truths.
The “Old World” believed that people needed authority to exist and that government is the great human parent that grants permissions and takes care of people.
Individuals do not need permissions from government and governments do not and cannot provide for people.
Anything more or less than this cometh of evil.I worry that many Americans want to revert back to the old world by looking to government as the great provider and sacrificing their freedoms and liberties while worshiping the almighty state.
There were so many moments I wanted to leap online and give this book 5 stars as a high-five, so many times I looked around for paper to jot down a great quote or insight.
Her personal experience with European culture, something I don't have, was very interesting and valuable to me, even if I know I can't verify her impressions for myself.I just couldn't give the book 5 stars in the end, though.
It was prone to hyperbole to the point you started to mistrust how much the author really looked into a particular historical example.
This is the quintessential work on the origins and nature of freedom, of the split between American and European thinking on government and liberty.
If you’ve read Mainspring of Human Progress, The Five Thousand Year Leap or anything else on American government or freedom you need to forget them and read this foundational book (exceptions: Constitution, Declaration and Federalist Papers) then build back up again with the other stuff.
After you’ve read this book you’ll view our collective American history and the true nature of the American with more clarity and true pride without all that false ego-centered sentimental patriotism.I have read this book several times and refer to it again and again, it is the most important non-fiction non-scriptural book you can read.Sarah McIlrath
I'm excited to be reading this book! Rose Wilder Lane was the daughter of Laura Ingals Wilder! Rose was leaning toward socialism at one point in her life. Then went Europe as a writer for the Red Cross just after World War I and had quite the Paradigm shift! Very excited to read it all!!!!
Men in government must take the wealth they consumer, from the wealth that productive men create." -Rose Wilder Lane, the Discovery of Freedom"From Sultan to slave, every good Moslem lived in submission to the Unknowable, as Spartans submitted to the Law of Lycurgus, as savages submit to tabu, as communists and fascists and nazis submit to The Party, and as some Americans believe that individuals should and must submit to an enforced Social Good, to the Will of the Majority, to a Planned Economy, to many other pagan gods that do not exist." -Rose Wilder Lane, the Discovery of Freedom"Anyone who says that economic security is a human right, has been to much babied.
The book appears to me to be a collection of essays that are collected without sufficient editorial oversight to make them read more as one work.
There is an awkward repetition and lack of coherent organization that makes it somewhat off-putting if taken as one long read, but when treated as many shorter works, most of the segments are, in themselves, profound.
The author was a journalist (and a novelist) so there are no citations for her warrants, making it hard to take some of her assertions (mainly historical) too seriously without independent research, but her reasoning in the book is remarkable.
While not a perfect book (it could have used a little more aggressive editor) this book was an excellent reminder of where freedom and human rights come from, as well as the role government plays in both defending and infringing upon those rights. Plus, it came as a pleasant surprise that anything good could come from Little House On The Prairie. Yes, Rose Wilder Lane is baby Rose from Little House On The Prairie, half pint's daughter. I would recommend this books to friends and family.
Impressive argument for human freedom and a compelling frame in which to view the world and society's history. I would give it five star but some of the nuts and bolts of the history is incorrect and years later the author recognized this and she actually regretted the work. However this absolutely does not take away from the message and the beautiful delivery.
A great book written in 1943(?) detailing mans struggle against authority... in essence, the same story Larken Rose tells in The Most Dangerous Superstition.
Very slow start and almost gave up half way through. I am very glad I perservered! The second half is wonderful, insightful and spooky with how accurate it is looking at today.
Less government, not more!
I wish this book and Rose Wilder Lane was better known. This book articulated the reasoning behind us who are liberty minded.
Good book, but not one of the best of its kind.
The Discovery of Freedom: Man's Struggle Against Authority by Rose Wilder Lane (1993)
