https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25893693-lilac-girls
I had no idea until I read the author's note that Caroline Ferriday was a real person who not only worked tirelessly to help orphans in France during the war but continued to give of herself to help survivors of Ravensbruck in the years after the war.
It is after the war that her story converges with the other narrators.They are Kasia , an eighteen year old girl in Lublin , Poland who gets involved in the Resistance and is arrested with her sister and her mother and Dr. Herta Oberhauser from Düsseldorf , newly graduated surgeon, who applies for a job and goes to Ravensbruck, thrilled that she will finally practice in a world dominated by male Doctors.
Caroline's narrative went on and on about her pretty dresses, charities parties and all that name dropping, and then there's the romantic element with no chemistry.
In the end, I just didn't care and began to skim, and it went on too long for before tying things up and moving on.Sorry, but apparently I am in the minority and see this getting a lot of favorable reviews, but due to the slowness of the story reaching it's resolution, unlikeable characters (and really, Herta should have been a lot more unlikeable), and one too many social party and pretty dress for Caroline, I just can't rate this higher.
The storytelling is disturbing, gripping and written veraciously.Caroline Ferriday's was a wealthy American woman who made it her life's work to help the female prisoners.
Dr. Herta Oberheuser, from Germany, executed the most ghastly and torturous medical experimentation imaginable on these woman in the camps.
Her purpose was for the women to conflict pain purposefully -- some crazy type of thinking these woman should be in agony as a type of counterbalance any distress the German soldiers endured.
Martha Hall Kelly's story is emotional, heart wrenching, but not 'all' gloomy.
By the time the reader gets to the end...we can't help but respect the integrity in which Martha Kelly devoted to the historical facts.
Emotional, Powerful, Brutal This book will take your breath away.. it certainly stole mine. Some stories are unforgettable, no doubt that this one is among them. However, to leave it at that, is not adequately expressing myself. No. This is different. Not only did I appreciate this novel, but it changed me. It shook me to the core and rocked the very foundation on which I stand. If you haven't yet read this, you must. It is imperative that we never forget the extraordinary suffering and enormou
Emotional, Powerful, Brutal
This book will take your breath away..
it certainly stole mine.
Some stories are unforgettable, no doubt that this one is among them.
If you haven't yet read this, you must.
It is imperative that we never forget the extraordinary suffering and enormous loss that took place during the Holocaust.
I've never read any piece of literature that gives a voice to one of the most evil humans in mankind.
This was by no means an easy read, however, it is critical that we all never forget the inhumanity that was the Holocaust.
I'm so very clearly in the minority here, and I don't really feel like drawing the ire of the thousands of people who seem to have enjoyed this book so just let me say that the story was fine but I thought the writing was weak. The characters weren't developed and Kelly's use of the three-intertwined-narratives technique (Side note: I am sick to death of that technique) struck me as clumsy and ineffective.
Falling in love with a foreigner who is forced to return to Nazi occupied France.Kasia in Poland.
The Nazis have invaded and she has been caught working for the underground movement.
But hope is all they had and gave them the strength to survive.
A medical doctor working at a concentration camp doing experimental surgeries on inmates.
A doctor whose purpose is saving lives is practicing unethical surgeries and murder.
I would have preferred locking onto one character, but overall this was beautifully written and an amazing story of character, courage, redemption and resilience.
I finished this book earlier in the day, and I've been pondering what to write for "my review" and I cannot put into words how much this book impacted me. It's books like this that make me appreciate how fortunate I am, for I know with great certainty that I could be nowhere as resilient. FANTASTIC BOOK!!!
I was shocked by this book, not expecting it to be as good as it was.The Lilac Girls tells the story of three *very* different women, whose lives eventually intersect.
Kasia Kuzmerick, a young Polish girl who eventually is taken by the Germans to Ravensbrück, and is one of the rabbits.
The rabbits were a group of young, healthy, women who the germans performed ruthless, unnecessary operations on them, debilitating them for life, and sometimes just killing them outright.
Caroline and Herta are based on real life people who did these things that are described in the book.
It saddens me so much to think that any of the victims of these atrocities would carry guilt feeling any it was their fault.
I appreciate the dedication and research Kelly did in order to bring these women's story to us.
It is important that stories like these continue to be written so that the victims of these atrocities are never forgotten.
The only part of this story I didn't really feel connected with was the relationship between Caroline and Paul.
I don't think this relationship was needed and it would've earned a 5 star rating from me if it had been omitted.
- CarolineCaroline is based on the true story of Caroline Ferriday, a former Broadway actress and socialite who was also known for taking up the cause for those Polish women who had been held as prisoners at Ravensbrück, but during the war she lent her talents and resources to helping raise funds and send care packages for the orphans in France.
Kasia and her sister’s stories are based, somewhat loosely, on a pair of sisters who did survive Ravensbrück.
This book, based upon a true story, is about three women during World War 2.Caroline Ferriday is a single New York socialite who does volunteer work for the French Consulate aiding orphans.
We follow her life through WW2 and how her she ultimately ends up helping raise money to rehabilitate women whose lives were severely impacted at Ravensbruck .
Herta Oberheuser is a German doctor who takes a medical position in Ravensbruck, a forced labor camp for women under the Nazi regime.
The author provides a nice follow up at the end discussing how her writing of this novel started.
Reading about all of the author’s research on Ms. Ferriday and her travels to Ravensbruck made me want to read this book.
I sat reading about Herta and wondering how anyone could be so cruel, so heartless, so completely blinded by ambition and Hitler’s world, to perform those horrific operations on other women.Caroline Ferriday contributed so much to the rehabilitation of the formerly imprisoned Polish women.
After the war when it becomes known what really happened at Ravensbruck, Caroline sought out the women who were the “rabbits”.
Lilac Girls is a quietly powerful book set in the second World War and based on a true story.It is well narrated by three different narrators, one for each POV.
The story is told through the eyes of Caroline Ferraday, New York Socialite; Kasia Kuzmerick , a young Polish woman; and Herta Oberheuser a young German Doctor, whose lives are set on a collusion course.
In my eyes, this is a 'must read' book.
And when you do, don't skip the author's note at the end on how the book came to be written.
I was definitely pushed to keep reading as a Caroline chapter ended with questions that took several chapters to return to!
I loved the interactions between Caroline and the Polish women.
This isn’t a part of WWII history that I have read much about so I wanted more development in those chapters.
I would have liked more development and more specific details about how she and her family coped postwar.While I can appreciate the unique point of view of a Nazi doctor, I gradually grew to dislike her and the way she hardened.
This was a fascinating read, not quite perfect,so four rather than five stars, but still a book I would recommend everyone to read.I found out so much more than I already knew about World War 11, particularly as to what happened in Poland during and after the war.
I also found it necessary after reading the book to research a bit more in order to fully understand it all.My only reservation was that I never really felt attached to any of the characters.
I was duly shocked by all they had to endure but I never really felt a part of it myself which was a shame.
This is a fictional story of the real-life women who were subjected to medical experiments at Hitler's Ravensbrüch concentration camp, the only one exclusively for women.
The story is told from three narratives: Caroline Ferriday, a New York debutant and socialite who worked tirelessly on behalf of French orphans before and at the war's outbreak; Kasia Kuzmerick, a young Polish woman who was subjected to these experiments at Ravensbrüch; and Herta Oberheuser, one of the camp doctors (the only female one) conducting the experiments.
So much of this story was enlightening and I especially liked learning about Caroline Ferriday who is not a fictional character and lived a life of charity and substance.
It doesn't take long for the first two to merge, as the Polish girl finds herself at Ravensbruck and the German woman takes work as a doctor there.
The weakness in the book is the characters themselves, especially Herta, the German.
This book had great potential but didn't quite fulfill it.Re-read9/18.
But that said, I found the book drew me in more this time than on my first read.
The author’s note actually does a better job of explaining Caroline than the book.
This book is about Ravensbruck, a women's concentration camp located in northern Germany, during World War II.
Over 130,000 women went through this camp with the majority never leaving: dying from disease, starvation or execution.
These women were also subjected to grotesque experiments that would leave them disfigured, sterilized or dead.
The book alternates between three stories, Caroline Ferriday, Herta Oberheuser, and Kasia Kuzmerick.
Two of those stories, Caroline's and Herta's, are based on real people.
I found the beginning of the book with the alternating stories to be distracting and a little confusing at times.
Excellent book! 5 stars! One of my favourite books of 2016!! Told from three characters' viewpoints, I was completely enthralled in each storyline. Very disturbing and horrific subject matter when reading about what went on at the concentration camp - hard to read at times and hard to believe this book is based on true events. Very well written - I was hooked from the first page to the very last page in the Author's Note. It was interesting to read about the author's journey through researching and writing this novel in the Author's Note.
Author Martha Hall Kelly gets up close and personal with Kasia, a young Polish girl with Jewish ancestry who is completing secret missions for the underground anti-war efforts and is captured by the Gestapo with her sister and her mother… Herta, an out of work, German doctor who is offered a job at the women’s re-education camp and forced to execute by lethal injections… and Caroline, a New York francophile who sent supplies to the orphanages in France and who becomes a hero and savior to many.Each chapter is about one of the three women; we learn about their everyday lives and challenges, love, relationships, hope and dreams as they navigate life during the war.
I loved this book! I have read a lot of books - both fiction and non-fiction - centered around WWII and the Holocaust. I don't think I've ever read one that looked at that time period from three different points of view. (I could say more about that, but it might be a spoiler, and I hate spoilers!) I didn't want to put this book down. MUST READ! I've seen it on LOTS of lists of popular books, and now I completely understand why! It deserves to be on "READ THIS BOOK NOW!" lists!
When done well, historical fiction novels can deeply connect readers to our shared human history and "teach" even better than many non-fiction texts.
Lilac Girls is simultaneously heart breaking and heart warming, depressing and uplifting, as it weaves the story of women from Poland, the U.S. and Germany during WWII.Much has been been written about the book's plot, which I will not re-hash in detail here.
While listening to this book I did ponder why there are so many books about WWII.
Although I had a galley, I listened to the audio version of the book.
Lilac Girls is an extensively-researched piece of historical fiction and quite engaging story based on the war-time activities of Caroline Ferriday, NY socialite, actress and humanitarian.
There they endure unspeakable conditions and Kasia and her sister are among at least 70 girls at the camp who are subjected to life-threatening experimental surgeries performed by Dr. Herta Oberheuser, the third character in the story, based on the only woman doctor at the all-female Ravensbruck camp.
From the main characters to the individual Ravensbruck doctors and prison guards to the inmates of the concentration camp, Hall Kelly has done her research and then some.
Just seeing some of these people's pictures gave me goosebumps.The story is focused around 3 main characters during World War II - Kasia, a young Polish girl; Caroline, a New York socialite; and Herta Oberheuser, a German doctor who accepts a job at Ravensbruck, a "re-education center" for women (aka a concentration camp).
While based on real people and real events, it is still a work of fiction with imagined dialogue and additional characters and events invented to dramatize or humanize the story.
I have read many books about World War ll, but had not heard of Ravensbruck concentration camp and the inhumane medical experimentations that happened there.This story was told by three different women during the course of 20 years, two Polish sisters who ended up in the camp, and a wonderful, beautiful soul who was New York based, who did so much to help during and after the war. I will remember these women!
Martha Kelly used two women's histories, and provided a somewhat graphic tale of the Rabbit's hardships, and second chances for a new life after their time at a concentration camp named Ravensbrück.
Lilac Girls was written in three point of views:Carolina Ferriday in 1958, after WWII ended, searched and helped the Rabbits or Ravensbrück Ladies with medical care in the States.
I finally realized, in the middle of the book, that it wasn't Caroline's story, and her rescuing these Polish women from Herta's cold hands was not going to happen.
Romanul "Când înflorește liliacul" prezintă viața a trei femei din timpul celui de-Al Doilea Război Mondial: newyorkeza Caroline Ferriday care este șefa departamentului de asistență a familiei pentru Consulatul Franței din New York, Kasia Kuzmerick în vârstă de șaptesprezece ani, elevă la Școala catolică pentru fete Sfânta Monica din Lublin, Polonia și Herta Oberheusen, absolventă a Școlii de medicină din Dusseldorf.
Fiecare dintre ele simte războiul pe propria piele, chiar dacă din unghiuri diferite.
(The first two were real people, by the way.)Three ladies from three different countries with three vastly different perspectives during World War II.
Hitler was widely known for hating the Jewish, but it is often overlooked that he did unspeakable things to people from other countries and beliefs, as well.
Lilac Girls brings importance to all people of all nations or beliefs that were targets of hate.
This novel shocks the reader into realizing how far Hitler's hatred penetrated the entire world; yet, this is a story of how love, strength, and forgiveness can overcome even the deepest evils.
Lilac Girls is a haunting, powerful and deeply moving story which I found to be extremely interesting.
I can be a bit careful as to what historical fiction I choose to read and reaching too far out of my comfort zone.
I like how the stories start off separately for each woman, then as the story unfolds their lives intersect and we learn how each had a part in the Ravensbuck experiments and the aftermath of it.I love when a book teaches me something, takes me out of my comfort zone and I learn something about myself.
The cover with those three women walking so close together has intrigued me from the moment I bought the book as a hardcover when it first came out.
The actual story is different than what the cover projects, at least to me and many members of my club, but we decided it is up to the reader to decide who those three women are.
I was also unaware until I read the Acknowledgements that the character Caroline was a real person, a heroine any way you look at it, and someone I would've liked to have known.
