https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323289.The_Witness
4 starsThis book reminded me of this:Why?Because it's full of errors, typos, unfinished or mixed sentences and missing paragraphs.A great mystery. I spent half of the book scratching my head, trying to connect the paragraphs and sentences.And I may be crazy, but I liked it. A lot. That's how good Sandra Brown is.There may be a newer edition available. I just read the one that had been on my Kindle for years.
4.5 starsA car crash, on a rainy night, leaves three survivors, a baby boy, a man who is badly injured, and Kendall Deaton. Kendall has secrets and she knows if these secrets are revealed to the wrong people, her life won’t be worth living.This is a book where you cannot really say too much about the storyline without giving something away. Another solid read from Ms Brown. Yes, I will be checking out more of her books.  STORM BEFORE SUNSET. MARK MY WORDS Her priority is her child. She had a see
4.5 starsA car crash, on a rainy night, leaves three survivors, a baby boy, a man who is badly injured, and Kendall Deaton.
Kendall has secrets and she knows if these secrets are revealed to the wrong people, her life won’t be worth living.This is a book where you cannot really say too much about the storyline without giving something away.
She had a seemingly perfect marriage but one night stumbled upon a scene so terrifying that she knows she has to escape … but the forces that want to stop her revealing her story are strong and powerful ….She plans to escape but even the best laid plans go wrong.
Another fantastic read! I guess you could say I am on a little bit of a Sandra Brown kick right now. But I have to say her books are so freaking good. I’ve even started another one! Where do I begin…The Witness is told between the present and the past. It is story about a women name Kendall Deaton. On a rainy night there is an awful car crash. The survivors are Kendall, her baby boy and an injured man John. Falling under a web of lies and secrets, Kendall tells yet another lie to keep herself a
Falling under a web of lies and secrets, Kendall tells yet another lie to keep herself and her son safe.
After settling in, marrying and delving into her work, unsettling things begin to happen.
Then one night Kendall witnesses something horrific.
On the run Kendall does whatever it takes to keep her son Kevin safe and herself alive.
When Kendall senses things are closing in on her again, she needs to make a decision.
She needs to keep her son safe.
On a personal note I do have to say some of the things that take place in this book were simply cruel and disgusting.
5 STARS[image error] Ok… I know, I give everyone 5 stars. What can I say? I have read some phenomenal books. And Sandra Brown is partly the reason for that. This woman can write a story like no other. Not to say that all her books are this good, but I pick and choose based on the reviews… and I have yet to be disappointed. [image error] The Witness is Kendall Deaton’s story. On the run for her life, Kendall pulls herself and her baby from the wreckage of an automobile accident in the mountains o
5 STARS[image error]
This is how the story is presented, and for much of the book, you, the reader, are left in the dark regarding the identity of her amnesic companion, and the truth behind her past.
You’re the best diet I’ve ever been on.”
The question here involves the bringing to justice of a very dangerous group of individuals in exchange for… your future, your child’s future, your life, and the lives of those you love.
Is it worth it?[image error]
The only reason I made love to you every night was because I wanted to.
Please keep writing, I don’t ever want to run out of these great books to read!
Reseña completa: http://masromance.blogspot.com.es/201...Hay que tener en cuenta que aunque es una novela publicada por un sello romántico, yo no la consideraría como tal.Es un thriller o una novela de suspense, o una novela policíaca, como lo queráis llamar, pero no creo que estemos ante una novela romántica ya que el romance tiene un peso muy secundario.Y como tal me ha gustado bastante ya que me ha tenido perdida casi la primera parte de la novela.
No ser yo la que destapa la trama.Cierto que la trama de fondo se ve venir, pero siendo una novela emplazada en el sur profundo americano, no hay que tener mucha imaginación para saber por dónde irán los tiros.
En mi opinión, la autora juega muy bien con la información que muestra y la que se guarda para ir desvelándola paulativamente.
4.5 Suspenseful Stars!! WOW! This story had lots of long hidden town secrets and plenty of lies. Kendall is the new Public Defender just married into a prominent family, Matt is the town's Newpaper owner and Editor, he seems to be the perfect catch, in the beginning of their married life together the only thing Kendall had to worry about was her intrusive and invasive father-in-law Gibb and the hold he seems to have over Matt.Soon enough she stumbles (literally) over something so horrific it's
A year later she is found, she's wanted by the FBI, and on the run with her infant son and John a man with amnesia, she is counting on John to keep her and her child safe even though he seems to have an aversion to children.
Eventually John and Kendall form a bond and John finds himself falling for not only Kendall but her infant son as well.
Heavy suspense, loathsome characters, light romance, and an ending that had more secrets to reveal!!
What would you be willing to do to protect your child's life? Kendall and her baby are fugitives running from the bad guys. Late one evening Kendall accidentally stumbles upon an execution scene and is discovered. She becomes the next on the Brotherhoods' list to execute. While on the run Kendall creates a false life and kidnaps a man in her attempt to escape the Brotherhood. The Brotherhood has vast resources and is determined to find her and preform their own justice on her. THE WITNESS was p
Kendall and her baby are fugitives running from the bad guys.
Late one evening Kendall accidentally stumbles upon an execution scene and is discovered.
She becomes the next on the Brotherhoods' list to execute.
While on the run Kendall creates a false life and kidnaps a man in her attempt to escape the Brotherhood.
The Brotherhood has vast resources and is determined to find her and preform their own justice on her.
THE WITNESS was published 19 years ago and is my first book by Ms. Brown.
The book flowed from present to past scenes nicely.Standalone
Si bien la historia engancha tremendamente, hubo momentos que me hicieron confundirme demasiado sobre la línea temporal.Es un libro muy viejito y por lo tanto es difícil conseguir una versión digital si por los años de su publicación podría decirse que casi ni existían.
estoy rogando que sea problema con mi edición porque no me gustó.En fin, leí más de 500 páginas en un santiamén, no sentí nada el tiempo enganchada que estuve así que es totalmente una recomendación para mi.
This isn't as awful as I remember it (though it certainly predates the more sophisticated Sandra Brown thrillers that have become a must-buy for me.) Still seriously annoying: (view spoiler)[ entire plot is predicated on the idea that an intelligent, ambitious, modern-day American woman with a social conscience has somehow managed to meet, fall in live with and marry a man without knowing he's a raving bigot whose views on race and women's rights are holdovers from the Jim Crow era.
(hide spoiler)]
3.5 stars
I was a little worried after reading the Best Kept Secrets by Sandra Brown as I did not enjoy that book at all, but this book redeemed my trust in Brown as an author.
I enjoyed how Brown switched back and forth between the past a present as it kept me wondering what Kendall was running from as well as trying to figure out what her next move will be.
I think this is one of the best Brown books that I have read in a long time.Enjoy!!!!
The villain was the most inhumane person I’ve read from Brown’s books. The story was compelling and every character got a multi-layered tier of secrets. 4* for the suspense, and mystery. Worth reading!
The first half of the book is intriguing, but the second half is boring as hell. Plus, I could not connect with the characters.
In these older Sandra Brown novels she really likes delving into the dysfunctional small US southern towns and the people who inhabit them.
This one pushes the bounds of reality right to the edge with a secret "Brotherhood" meting out their sort of justice to anyone who doesn't meet their racist and misogynist requirements and our plucky heroine who inadvertently marries a member stumbles into their nefarious activities.
There were a few of the Sandra Brown twists and turns but not quite the edge of your seat drama that packs so much of a punch in her more recent novels.
I absolutely loved this book. There are a lot of issues in it that I know will or have offended people. The reality is that these issues are real life....unfortunately. There was so many twists and turns and some just straight up. She never ceases to amaze me with her books. The one thing I didn't see coming was the end twist...never ever expected it! This makes for great writing :)
Overall rating: 4.5 stars!!!!! (Seriously if I would have had an (view spoiler)[ epilogue - anything please - it would have been 5 +++ stars (hide spoiler)]Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ Not between the hero and heroine. The heroine's husband (the douche) does cheat on her before she leaves him (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ only in flashbacks do you see intimacy with the heroine and her husband, but it was before she meets the
(Seriously if I would have had an (view spoiler)[ epilogue - anything please - it would have been 5 +++ stars  (hide spoiler)]Triggers:Cheating: (view spoiler)[ Not between the hero and heroine.
The heroine's husband (the douche) does cheat on her before she leaves him  (hide spoiler)]Love triangle: (view spoiler)[ no  (hide spoiler)]Sex with om/ow: (view spoiler)[ only in flashbacks do you see intimacy with the heroine and her husband, but it was before she meets the hero of the story.
This book is so suspenseful and has SO much going on with twists and turns it is very hard to review without giving away plot details that you just have to experience.
O carte de nota 10!
I found it annoying that EVERY detail at the beginning was a mystery.
(author really liked the idea of an ass backwards small town Southern town so it was really difficult to tell when this book was supposed to take place- too many little lady comments for my liking) We get it, it's a mystery.
The plot details all fall apart upon inspection.
Oh, and come on, if an FBI agent went missing in this backward ass town, then the feds would have been swarming that place LONG before she had a change to run for it!!
La historia tiene unos personajes muy bien perfilados, Kendall es una protagonista que va a hacer todo, absolutamente todo lo necesario para proteger su vida y la de su hijo, es fuerte, es lista y tiene unos principios que no se tambalean facilmente.
Y hace que al final le cojamos cariño.Y por último tenemos a Kevin, el bebé que introduce ese porcentaje de ternura tan necesario en el libro.En definitiva, una historia que me ha encantado y me ha enganchado a partes iguales.
Wow! I love Ms. Brown's book and tis one was not an exception!Unfortunately I had a lousy epub full errors, so I got often lost while reading, but that didn't detract from my liking this book!The story is very complex and inetersting and I loved how the heroine, Kendall was behaving. She was in a very bad situation, but she made the most of what she has at heand to overcome it! Just excellent!Reading this book is like solving a puzzle and I enjoyed every moment!
Testigo fue un libro que me costó mucho terminarlo porque sentí en muchas oportunidades que la historia se quedaba estancada y que la línea temporal se confundía de vez en cuando, pero ya cuando pude tomar el ritmo de la historia me di cuenta que es una historia muy envolvente.
Un pueblo que tiene una red de mentiras, las cuales van siendo protegidas por los mismos habitantes hasta el punto de aceptar realidades que nos son reales.
Un buen libro con el cual se debe tener paciencia para poder entrar en la historia pero una vez adentro no hay forma de parar.
The author gives a few clues along the way but it’s something you would never imagine because it’s totally crazy and would only have made sense if the book had been set in the 50s (which is not.)As usual, Joyce Bean did an excellent job with the narration (I picked up the book because she was the reader in the first place.) Even though the book left me unsatisfied with the romance – the hero was so interesting and I feel the story didn’t do him justice - I cannot say I regret listening to it because it kept me at the edge of my seat.
Setelah Envy aku belum menemukan buku SB lain yang bisa memberikan getaran kuat yang sama, sampai aku membaca prolog The Witness.
Di antara novel-novel lain yang memberikan heroine super lemah lembut, baik dan harus dilindungi.
The Witness memberikan seorang heroine kuat yang pandai memanipulasi.
Tapi dia adalah pribadi cerdas yang memanipulasi fakta real demi melindungi keselamatan hidupnya.
Tampak super acuh dan menyebalkan tapi sangat protektif dan bisa diandalkan di masa sulit.Yang menarik perhatianku pertama kali selain prolog kuat yang memancing rasa ingin tahu adalah alur maju mundurnya yang berjalan selaras di setiap topik kebohongan Kendall.
I read this book in 2011 and rated it 4 stars.
I don't normally re-read books as knowing the outcome kills the suspense.
Well I'm getting old and can barely remember what I did last night let alone the content of a book I read 6+ years ago.
In desperate need of a good book, after a slew of crap, I scrolled back through books I'd enjoyed, and settled on this.
I'm must say it blew me out of the park, Sandra Brown has crafted a suspenseful, twisty-turny, nail biting plot.
And John is simply swoon-worthy.Re-read verdict - 5 big fat stars.
Skimming was the only way I could get through this book. The characters were flat and more like caricatures and none of them likeable. The "mystery" of the author not revealing any of what was really going on went on for FAR, FAR, FAR too long. And amnesia, despite being an awful plot device, also needed to be researched a whole lot more before Sandra Brown decided to use it in ways that make no sense.Ugh.
what else?It's just how literature should be, defined.The best mystery/thriller I've read, and one of the best books in general.Blew me off.
I thought I'd take this as casual reading for "on the go" situations that won't require hard concentration and will be full of dispensable details.
No harm done if I forget most of it.Well, casual it was in it's approachability.
I managed to keep all the ties close and connected all the way through and to the very end.Probably has more to do with writer's skill to keep reader's attention glued to the words than my own poor distractible brain.Forgettable, though?
Not in any way, shape or form of any detail.This book....
As if it wasn't enough to be on the lam from those in Prosper that want her dead, she's also trying to elude the Feds who want her as a material witness.
To say more would spoil your reading experience.
I listened to this book versus reading and I must say I don't remember the miles I put behind me during the telling of the story.
There is an unexpected little twist at the end to make this experience complete.
I thoroughly enjoyed the book and highly recommend it to anyone looking for a little romance and a lot of mystery and suspense.
4/5 starsThis wasn't my favorite Sandra Brown book, but it's still really good. I wasn't a fan of the bigotry, sexism and racism, but it's needed for the story.John was great and I also liked Kendall.What I love about Sandra's books is that the women are not just airheads in the middle of a crime, but actually wellrounded and smart women.
Simply magnificent! I loved it!
Loved it from start to finish ⭐️
