https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60553.Become_What_You_Are
His grasp of the essence of practice as it has at least presented to me, is both incisive and insightful and he is always able to express the most abstract idea in a way that anyone can grasp.
I am gradually working my way through everything he has written that I can lay my hands on; he always, with out any seeming effort raises my spirit, cleanses my intellect and inspires me to move forward in the ever present task of simplification that is the humility of practice.
Another great read for anyone with an interest in living their life!
Become what you are and stop trying so hard to become what you are not. :)
Alan Watts' wonderful compilation of twenty essays,much of which is (essential) wisdom.Liked at least three quarters of them, some of which could be certainly put into practice.Excellent. Very much RECOMMENDED.
The book is basically just a short collection of essays about becoming what you are collected from mostly magazines.
A lot of the essays, since not originally intended to be put in a book form, make some of the same points over and over again.
The recurring ideas are great if you are new to them and want to make sure that some of those main points sink in.
Even though some essays will say a lot of the same things i feel that each did have something to offer that would elaborate on those points to still make the essays worth reading.
The title perfectly captures the essential truth of this book, but echoes something more akin to the self-help genre rather than philosophy, which will naturally put off a lot of the people who should read it.
This collection of concise essays--many can be read in one toilet sitting--aren't about self-improvement but stand as commentary on a way of living for as Watts puts it "you may believe yourself out of harmony with life and its eternal Now; but you cannot be, for you are life and exist Now...there is no coming toward it or going away from it; it is, and you are it.
great book. for me, i have had to figure out 'what" i am and have always been, which is simply ME. but i've had to wrestle with the acceptance of that I am and always have been what I am and I am exactly perfect in who and what i have always been. too bad i didn't really get that in high school... confused?? mabye if you read the book you'll get what I am talking about.
“Life exists only at this very moment, and in this moment it is infinite and eternal. For the present moment is infinitely small; before we can measure it, it has gone, and yet it persists forever.”
Who you are is what you were?? Don't be fooled by the number of pages. It's a short book, but very dense. Alan Watts does a good job of making Eastern Buddhism accessible to Westerners, but there is still a lot of circuitous / paradoxical logic that is difficult to understand upon first read.
Alan Watts has always been an influential person for me. This book traces some of his essays on Zen, Buddhism, Life and the world itself. Some chapters go towards the line of religion. However, most of the chapters try to dig down into the zen practices - by relating to events, stories, so on and so forth.
This book's review can't be written. This book can't be explained. There are only two possibilities. Reading this book being one and experiencing this book being the other. That leaves me with only one possibility. Experiencing this book. This makes no sense and yet it makes all the sense in this world which is incomplete without this book and without which this book is incomplete.
„ Luați-o încet pentru o vreme; doar priviți zăpada cum cade sau ceainicul cum fierbe și nu vă mai grăbiți. ”
I keep this book of compilations of Alan Watts's best essays in my purse, just in case I'm waiting somewhere and need a lift. He never ceases to stimulate the mind and heart. The essay about the finger and the moon would be a great read for anyone wanting an adequate explanation on how to approach religion in daily life, and how some use it as a crutch almost...beautiful metaphors, and later on, it does get a little dry when he discusses all the sects of Buddhism (very informative, nevertheless).
In this collection of essays, Watts focuses on Wu-wei: the significance of "not-doing" and "not forcing," living a life undisturbed by attachment, desire, fear and regret. I am a huge fan of Alan Watts and have made it a personal goal to read everything that he has ever written. He can be very dense at times, but I found this read to be easily enjoyable and less complicated than his other works. I would check this one out first if you haven't read Watts before. I'll definitely read this one again.
My dad gave me a copy of The Wisdom of Insecurity when I was in high school and it rocked my whole life. It was interesting to read Watts 18 years later. There was something Holden Caulfield-like about it in the way he spends a lot of time talking about phonies on the spiritual path.I enjoyed reading it, though some essays resonated more than others and I didn't have that experience of each sentence being like a drop of water on a dehydrated tongue. But maybe that experience belongs to the youthful reader..
A mixed bag. I think anything written by Watts is worth reading, but this collection of early essays (some from the 1930s) is hit or miss. Still, the seeds of the greatness of THE BOOK and other later works are here... the best pieces (for me) are the ones that deal with non-duality in a plain-spoken way that undoes the knots of our ego consciousness. I wonder if hanging out and shooting the shit with Watts would be as amazingly edifying and cool as I imagine it.
I reread this every summer. Preferably in a park. Essential.
Alan Watts says it all so well. Bites me.
This dude is a trip.
The essays feel a bit scattered, though, and while others convey a sense of personal development and self-reflection, others are hands-down a history lesson by the book in which I found myself trying to memorise words, rather than making sense of the teachings.Some essays were so great that I took notes about more than half of them, others I completely dismissed, so expect that not all of them will be tailored to your expectations.
It feels a bit repetitive; though to be fair, these teachings need to be repeated and reminded constantly in order for them to sink in fully.I will definitely bring something with me from this book, and I may revisit some selected essays in the future.“Life exists only at this very moment, and in this moment it is infinite and eternal.
To read this one, I made myself familiar with his writing and philosophy by reading his other books such as The Wisdom of Insecurity (on someone's recommendation in past) and listening to his teachings in past few weeks.
The title is the essence of this book, might point to another domino piece in the self-help genre but I can assure you that this text which was first published in 1955 holds the same amount of value and wisdom today as it did back then.Watts touches various philosophical concepts and offers some practical wisdom to cope up with the life of a human being.
Alan Watts speaks to me in the same ways as Jiddu Krishnamurti.
After all, Alan wrote (and references) the majority of what's here whereas Jiddu's books are recordings from live conversations he had in the past.
I can see the reason for Alan's popularity.
Alan very neatly sets out in plain terms what many of us have issues wrestling with.
I feel as though most of this novel is geared towards saying the same thing in different ways.
For one reason or another I was under the impression that Alan passed away at a later date.
You do not trouble yourself with the problem of how, when you have picked the saltshaker up, you are going to be able to concentrate on it long enough to bring it to my end of the table.
If you can concentrate the mind for two seconds, you can do it for two minutes, and you can do it for two hours.
If, at the end of this time, your mind has wandered off, concentrate for another second, and then another.
Nobody ever has to concentrate for more than one second –- this one.
I have enjoyed this book, although I definitely find Alan Watts more of a challenge to read than to listen to.
But, making the effort to slow down a little when reading made a big difference to my enjoyment of this book, and the subject matter is very appealing to me.This book is a brilliant read if you are interested in the miracle of existence and finding out more about who you are, who you really are!
Detachment means to have neither regrets for the past nor fears for the future; let life take its course without attempting to interfere with its movement and change, neither trying to prolong the stay of things pleasant nor hasten the departure of things unpleasant.
In short, it is to be detached from both past and future and to live in the eternal Now. For in truth neither past nor future have any existence apart from this Now; by themselves they are illusions.
Life exists only at this very moment, and in this moment it is infinite and eternal.
On the whole, I really enjoyed this book.
More specifically, I enjoyed Watts' Essay titled, "The Finger Pointing at the Moon" (or something along those lines).
For me personally, religion has never been the answer and for this very reason.
I do feel as though many people focus too much on the finger (religion) instead of the moon (spirituality/your personal relationship with creator).Besides that, I took away all sorts of fantastic insights from this book, making my own little list of favorite quotes.
Regardless, I'm sure it will provoke your thoughts and tickle your spirit a little.

I got this book from the library, brought it home and laid down on my bed at the end of the night to read it. I cracked open the first page and a spoonful of sand fell out of the book into my bed. That's how it felt to read this underwhelming collection of B-side essays from Watts.
The book starts strong then proceeds to almost become christian propaganda, from what I understand this book represents earlier works from Mr. Watts. I'd like to think that he changed in his thinking after these pieces. At least it appears that way from his later works.
Not my favorite Watts.
2.5 Stars My Rating System:1 Star - I did not like this book.2 Star - it was eh/okay, and I got maybe a thing or two out of it.3 Star - Good 🤗4 Star - Great 😃5 Star - FAVE 😍
