https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8788554-first-grave-on-the-right
Charley Davidson is like white chocolate. You either love it, or you think it's an abomination of nature. I love white chocolate, I love Charley Davidson, and I am not ashamed.She's got such a great narrative voice - she is, dare I say it, a lot like me. A lot of deadpan humor. A lot of inappropriate thoughts at the worst possible times. “Well, I was kind of kidnapped, though not really kidnapped so much as led away.”A hand shot to her mouth to squelch a gasp.“God, all this sounds so awful when
Charley Davidson is like white chocolate.
I love white chocolate, I love Charley Davidson, and I am not ashamed.She's got such a great narrative voice - she is, dare I say it, a lot like me.
“Is anything broken?” Uncle Bob’s voice had softened.“My eyelids, I think.
Charley grew up ostracized by friends and even family, but she coped in her own way; she is strong, she is resilient.
She is pissed off, at times, but she deals with it through her snark and sarcasm and all-around awesome Charley-ness.
All of the grim reaper-slash-private investigator’s resources, through most of the book, are tied up in investigating the mystery man who has hot dream sex with her every night.
I wonder why the defense didn’t present THAT argument during his trial?!There are several sub-plots that are very unnecessary, like the one about the client who tries to escape her abusive husband; ideally, this book would have worked way better if Jones had stuck to the Reyes storyline, eliminated the weak attempt at a stand-alone mystery, cut down on the canned sarcasm, and given her characters a personality.
You know, I love a well-written, well-constructed, complex urban fantasy world as much as anyone.
But sometimes, just sometimes, I have a real need for something lighthearted, nonsensical, silly and sexy.
Like the Bridget Jones version of urban fantasy.
Unless, of course, you don't.)I liked First Grave on the Right so much that I bought the rest of the series all at once (something I just don't normally do).
I'm now getting started on Second Grave on the Left and I can't wait to see more of Charley's sarcasm, Reyes' sexiness, and the general demonic craziness going on.
3.5 (ish) stars  “Don't fear the reaper. Just be very, very aware of her.”  Well, personally, I have mixed feelings towards the reaper.Confused. Befuddled. Puzzled. Disconcerted. Call it what you like, it's still the same. While First Grave on the Right was a gripping and funny story, I had some issues with it, especially with Charley.Let's take it from the start.  “Just a girl, a few ghosts, and the entire human race. What could be easier?”  The creepy guy we call the reaper is not that creepy
Charley Davidson, a Private Investigator that always, always gets into trouble, has a second, more important job: she ferries souls to the other side, and sometimes helps them deal with their unfinished business, meaning she investigates their murders.
For Charley, it means getting beaten up, falling from warehouses, almost getting killed etc etc while she tries to solve the mystery that cloaks the sexy man that visits her dreams and now becomes a part of her reality.
There were so many times my shoulders shook from laughter, I loved the sass and the banters and the way Charley handled the dead people!
And if it's really for the story you won't be getting a heavy or graphic sex scene every second page.
I knew I didn't even want to follow the story any more it seems there is a device she's using (and of course some will disagree with me) that was something I didn't care for.So, 1 star because I can't go lower and I didn't finish the book...
Some feel that's just the female half of the population getting their own back a bit.But we came to a scene where we saw what was described as a "boy" being assaulted, possibly attempted murder....our protagonist intervenes (of course).
I’ve noticed a few of my GR friends have read books in this series and it seems to be popular, but I was not sure about diving into a paranormal/ urban fantasy series after burning out on the genre during the ‘Twilight’ craze.
I need to start another series like I need a hole in head, and I loathe the idea of binge reading, but I’m signing on for this one all the way.
Can’t wait to read the next book!!
So, twenty-pound, shoulder-cramping book bag in hand, I headed to the library's check out — and what a great decision that turned out to be.Our main character, Charley, has been gifted (or cursed, depending on how the onlooker chooses to see it) with the ability to see the dead since birth.
Today, she continues this line of work as a private investigator, working with Uncle Bob. It's a lot easier to solve a crime when you know who the murderer is or where the body is stashed.To top this off, Charley's had to deal with an evil stepmother because her biological mother died giving birth to her.
“I named my ovaries, too, but they don’t get out as much.”Now, if that little quote didn’t convince you to read First Grave on the Right, nothing I write will, either.
The names that instantly come to mind are Nicole Peeler, Jaye Wells and now Darynda Jones.
Although First Grave on the Right certainly is a fun read and Jones undoubtedly has a fantastic sense of humor, she does not have Evanovich’s courage to just let go: abandon all rules and reason along the way.
But unlike Wicked Appetite, First Grave on the Right has a solid story that holds all the humor together.
Don't you just love it when the majority of your friends love a book and keep telling you to read it but for some reason you don't get around to it.
But beware...if you do not like snark, do not read this book.
Charley has an assistant who is her best friend and who also lives right across the hall from her named Cookie.
And right from the start we find out that nightly he is trying to get into Charley's pants and doing a darn fine job!
SHE SEES GHOSTS....talks to ghosts...and even acts as a portal to the other side.Most of Charley's other-worldly friends are pleasant and just want help...answers...or to deliver messages to those left behind, but one presence in her life is dark, creepy....a huge cloaked figure who sweeps in and around her....and another who enters her dreams....is dangerously mysterious....irresistibly sensual....and ultimately her protector.Charley Davidson in many ways reminds me of Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum.
Working cases in conjunction with the police....great sidekicks (love Cookie & Angel)....cracking wise....ALWAYS getting into trouble....AND having lots of hot sex!FIRST GRAVE ON THE RIGHT is an entertaining read albeit, overall, a bit too light for me.
Sale Alert January Book Deal for $2.99 on Amazon4.5 Stars “If I couldn't be a good example, I'd just have to be a horrible warning.” I want to be Charley Davidson….I can’t say that I have ever read a book and was like omg I want to be that girl. I mean I love characters in other books don’t get me wrong but who really wants to be Katness, or Georgina Kincaid, okay okay I maybe want to be MacKayla Lane (cuz seriously Barons would be worth it) but I totally wanted to be Charley. If it wasn’t for t
I want to be Charley Davidson….I can’t say that I have ever read a book and was like omg I want to be that girl.
I mean I love characters in other books don’t get me wrong but who really wants to be Katness, or Georgina Kincaid, okay okay I maybe want to be MacKayla Lane (cuz seriously Barons would be worth it) but I totally wanted to be Charley.
Her sex obsessed secretary and neighbor Cookie, Swopes fellow PI who is having a hard time believing in her gift, her Uncle on the police force she helps solve crimes all were great sounding boards for Charley and her unique dialog.
She sees dead people and that is very helpful in murder investigations.
Putting away bad guys is totally worth having dead people constantly talking to her and making her look crazier.
But, for a brain-dead guy, he is still managing to have sex with Charley in some weird, out-of-body dream experience.
I know, I know, a brain-dead guy having sex and no joke?
Where would we be without brain-dead fuckboys?okay, that would be nice...And, while working these cases, Charley is constantly getting beat-up, and multiple attempts are made on her life.
Laughing was like Jell-O.
I love her narration and the way she made the story flow without it getting too complicated all at once due to its many characters.
The rest, read the book and find out.And meet  Garret Swopes  He’s another private investigator like Charley but he doesn't believe a thing about her ability in communicating with the deceased.
They share cocky remarks about each other and Charley kind of likes and dislikes him at the same time and I think the feeling is mutual.Overall, The first grave on the right was a unique read.
Remember a 3 star rating according to Goodreads means   I liked it  .
4 stars is for REALLY liked and 5 is for LOVED.
Charley spends her time as a private investigator and also helps the police on the side.
When three lawyers turn up as ghosts, Charley discovers they were all killed at the same time in order to keep an innocent man in prison.
For lack of a better word, it didn't feel like it was balanced very well.So to reiterate, I enjoyed this book but didn't love it.
She isn't a badass like Kate Daniels or Elena Deveraux, in fact she mostly gets her ass kicked through the book but she is so full of sarcastic comments and hilarious innate dialogs that would generally be annoying in real life but are much more fun to read in a book than a sensible person's thoughts.And then we have Reyes!(Reyes is perfection, since perfection thy name Matt...)(view spoiler)[If every son of Satan resembles this guy, pls sign me up for hell!
It was full of humor and sarcasm and Charley was such an easily likable heroine for me that I couldn't stop reading.(And yes, yet again I neglected to study.
I felt so disconnected to this aspect of the story.
Because, had there been more to his night time visits, had Jones not used up all her personality quota on Charley, then I'm sure I would have loved him.Jones seemed to spend more time selling the reader on the idea of Reyes.
In the end, he was one of the most disappointing aspects of the novel.
In fact, when I said that the book lacked that climax - Reyes lacked it most of all.Otherwise, a great read!
Guilty pleasure read!
There's a lot of humour of course in her daily interactions with people who no one else can see or hear.I enjoyed the whole thing very much although Charley's banter teetered on the edge of trying too hard from time to time.
There were lots of great characters even the ones like Mr Wong who never did anything but stand in the corner facing the wall.
The story was good but became very convoluted towards the end and I must admit I stopped trying to follow who did what and just enjoyed what happened.
It also doesn’t hurt that when she is in a bind, she has a quirky assistant, a sexy skip tracer, and a mysterious supernatural entity dubbed the “Big Bad” to help her whenever trouble is hot on her trail.Encountering ghosts on a regular basis and helping them find their way to the other side is to be expected of the one and only Grim Reaper, but Charley never expected to experience an intense passion with a mysterious spirit that visits her only in her dreams.
Like, internally?” My point is that this book is so good I wanted to cry just from the sheer fabulousness.
It gives you a person you would kill to have in your life, it lets you move slowly into and around the intriguing plot, and then:Reyes Alexander Farrow.That's about the point you start stumbling on your gaping jaw.Ever heard of the expression "less is more"?Well, this proves that for a couple to breath out the most intense sexual attraction, there is no need for 2,153 sex scenes.“Who’s Dutch?” Uncle Bob asked, gesturing toward the monitor, and my breath caught in my throat.
That’s right, she sees dead people.
And it’s her job to convince them to “go into the light.” But when these very dead people have died under less than ideal circumstances (i.e. murder), sometimes they want Charley to bring the bad guys to justice.
Of course there’s a lot of humor involved because no one else can see or hear the people and the voices that Charley can, but I was also blown away by the depth of emotion at points in the story.
And while I can’t call this a happily ever after romance – yet – there’s definitely something developing between Charley and the very hot, very tormented, otherworldly male named Reyes Farrow.
Oh there's so many reasons why I didn't enjoy this book... His features darkened. He stepped closer, pressed the length of his body against mine, leaned into me, and whispered in my ear. "What's your name?""Charley," I said, suddenly afraid, too afraid not to answer....He was the most beautiful thing I'd ever seen. He was solid and strong and fierce. And vulnerable. "No," I said in a whisper as his fingers drifted down and brushed intrusively over my breasts."Have you ever been raped, Dutch?"...
Oh there's so many reasons why I didn't enjoy this book...
"No," I said in a whisper as his fingers drifted down and brushed intrusively over my breasts."Have you ever been raped, Dutch?"..."No," I answered breathlessly.His cheek brushed across mine as his hand eased back up to lock on my throat.
So yeah, the above sentence just left a bad taste in my mouth for the entirety of the book.
I kept picturing in my head an unfunny comedian standing on the stage getting crickets, and blank stares.
this book makes none.
On to the next book.
Give it a rest."That killed the mood a little, but I probably wouldn't have rated Grave three stars if the narrative didn't focus so much on heroine Charley's fixation on a boy she met in high school.
Since, however, Charley ends the book madly in love, I doubt it.Grave also includes a carefully seeded plumbing of Charley's history throughout the novel for those of you who like full immersion, so that we are discovering her -kudos- and a complete murder mystery (despite rumors to the contrary).
It's not a mystery novel.His poofing in and out is pretty cool though.
Too much
DNF 43%.Ok, it must just be me. I can't get into this. It's not that it's bad writing. Occasionally, there's an awesome witty zinger, but everything in-between is Snoozeville for me. Lots of people love this series. I just can't muster up anything for Charley and her investigative case or her seeing ghosts. Reyes seems intriguing, but he's still just a whisper in the plot at this point. Meh. :(
This was an awesome paranormal-romance-urban-fantasy-mystery-comedy It had a little bit of everything that I love! What I loved:  ♦ Charley: She was hilarious with the "attention span of a gnat"! She's an awesome heroine and reminded me a little of Stephanie Plum. She's kick-ass and hilarious. ♦ Reyes: He was yummy, hot, and delicious. (See sexy man photos below ↓ Thanks, Cayce!!)♦ Swopes: If there was no Reyes I would take Swopes for myself!♦ The lawyers: Even though they kinda made me sad :(♦
(See sexy man photos below ↓ Thanks, Cayce!!)♦ Swopes: If there was no Reyes I would take Swopes for myself!♦ The lawyers: Even though they kinda made me sad :(♦ The Spawn of Satan AKA Strawberry Shortcake AKA SS: I loved when she "fell out of the car."♦ Ubie AKA Uncle Bob, although he really needs to learn the meaning of TMI!♦ Danger and Will Robinson: Yeah, I know I'm a girl and shouldn't like breasts, but they had personality!!♦ Cookie and her coffee addiction♦ Mr Wong: Too bad he isn't corporeal...he would make an awesome coat rack.♦ Angel: Who wouldn't want a 13 year old gangbanger ghost always trying to sneak a peak?
It's official: they know me well!!-- Charley is freaking awesome!
He's been around her (I think) for her entire life, and not only has he protected her from harm on multiple occasions, but it seems as if he's also lost his heart to her.-- Charley has an awesome neighbor/best friend/assisstant who has an equally awesome daughter.
Makes me miss my bestie...nuff said.I listened to the audiobook and the narrator did a great job of adopting Charley's lackadaisical demeanor.
I think the audio enhanced my experience with this book, which tends to be rare with any kind of romance involved.
Add to that mix a sexy guy who gives Charley erotic dreams and who may or may not be a ghost and we have on our hands a perfect novel.
Even more than that, though, is the fact that the romance in this novel is seriously...odd?
Ultimately, though, this novel lost my interest, turned me off with its constant humor, and I wasn't exactly the biggest fan of Charley or the writing style, especially the manner in which the murder mystery in this case was tackled.
I guess you need to really love humor and especially urban fantasy-lite to be a fan of this series and I guess I'm just one of those few people who doesn't.
And talking about witty, Charley is the wittiest and most fun loving character I've ever read.
Yes, I'm afraid I have a girl crush on Charley!Ok, I'll admit it, the thought of those two having hot, unsafe animal sex was a bit creepy, especially since my aunt didn't have any teeth.The plot is a murder mystery mixed into the craziness that is Charley's life.
I really loved both of them they're both great additions to the story.I'd just had a near-sex experience with a blazing inferno.This was my first grim reaper book, so it felt really unique and different to me.
I enjoyed this and loved Charley's sass and attitude but it tended to drag in some parts for me. I have heard that this series only gets better so I will definitely read the next book!
