https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8662836-chain-reaction
Then she meets Luis at Alex’s wedding, and suddenly, she’s tempted to break all her rules.Getting Nikki to take a chance on a southsider is Luis’s biggest challenge, until he finds himself targeted by Chuy Soto, the new head of the Latino Blood.
Will his feelings for Nikki be enough to stop Luis from entering a dark and violent world and permanently living on the edge?_______June 29_______[image error]droll much?
She is SO beautiful!_______Nov 19_______Simone Elkeles just posted the cover of Chan Reaction in her Facebook.
I wish im the girl in that cover.Damn hot Fuentes brothers._______Sept 01_______I read the details about it in other blog and i think this sounds interesting.
Loves me some Fuentes brothers!My Luis (Luke Pasqualino) and now my Nikki (Victoria Justice): ^^^I wish the Lake scene had been as hot as this picture!^^^~*~*~*~*~ SEPTEMBER 2011…AFTER READING… 4.5 of 5 Stars -  Also reviewed at: Lady Jayne's Reading Den  (This is an Adult-who-enjoys-reliving-the-stirrings-of-first-love-and-self-discovery-during-the-teen-years-through-YA books review) **CONTENT WARNING - Since this is a YA book I will include a warning that this book contains some Sexual, Drug and Alcohol, Course Language and Violent Content - Recommended for Older Teens and Adults who enjoy YA books***sighs* Still loving ‘em Fuentes brothers!
I think my eye just twitched in process.I know I shouldn’t complain but I mean come on… I am a complete advocate for reading books that should technically be classed as ‘guilty pleasures’ even if I don’t believe in them.
Just got a call from Latino Boys In YA Official Group of Gangbanging and Officialness and I’ve been informed that yes, every Mexican boy is the same as Marco and they are all affiliated with a gang and they all take drugs and gangbang each other (did I use that right?) and shoot people and fall for rich girls who they see as a ‘challenge’.I have more questions but I get too angry to ask them.In a sentence- I wanted this book to be about a shy Latino boy with two badass gangbangin’ brothers who meets a sassy Mexican gal who is all sassy and….
Ay carajo! There are only so many times you can enjoy the same old story.. in my opinion it gets down to probably two.I loved the first book because of the characters, and the chemistry and the action and I enjoyed enormously the humor in the second one, but when it comes to this one... I am terribly sorry to say that it was such a big disappointment.Please Simone Elkeles, I know you can write better than this, I've seen it before, just come up with something new the next time. I just feel like
I know Simone had to rewrite the whole story, but I didn't think that this was suppose to change too.Because there is the same good rich girl, now called Nikki (the only difference from the previews books is that she is suppose to be Mexican, but she doesn't know Spanish and for 99.9% of the time she is denying her origins - so it doesn't really count) and the same bad boy, this time the young Fuentes brother Luis (we only have a few glimpses of his family beliefs that he is a good boy, but he is definitely not - in fact he is not a "bad boy" either, he is more like an average boy with a bad attitude or something along these lines).
Disappointment...But, I will be generous and give it 3 stars because I have to admit, Luis was fun to read about at times, but if he called the other protag mi chava one more time, I was going to screech.
(hide spoiler)]It was fun to see Luis have so many similar characteristics to his brothers, including Alex’s smarts and Carlos’s drive, but one thing he had in spades that made me like him even more was his charm and arrogance about him.
I was really looking forward to reading the scene that went with that cover.
Definitely NOT good. I don't understand how the author made first two so amazing, and now this one... good lord the romance just felt plastic, and forced somehow. But, of course, I had to read it in order to have some closure. Ugh. My advice? Read the first two, and then go into a bookstore and pick up this book, read the epilogue at the back of the book, put the book back on the shelf and walk out.
FUENTES BOYS ARE BACK!!!!*after reading*So,I gotta say Chain Reaction is a huge disappointment.
I did not like Luis and Nikki.
:( Luis was too much of a good boy for me to even think about him as a person who would join a gang.
After I was done with this book the only thing I kept thinking was How am I going to rate this one?
I couldn't be one of those people who rate all the book from series/trilogy 5 stars just because they feel loyal to the author or something like that.
Alas, I did not like this book - as the following review states.]Look, I’m sorry, but every once in a while I just need to get my rant on and Chain Reaction has the dubious honour of being in my ranty sights right now.
ExpectationsIn hindsight I don’t know where I got this idea from, but I thought this book would be about Luis – the intelligent, sensitive and somewhat shy youngest Fuentes brother – being brought out of his shell by a confident, challenging Nikki, replete with trademark Elkeles flirtatious tension.
I am terribly sceptical when it comes to books that define themselves simply as 'romance'. I like romantic subplots in science-fiction, in historical-fiction and in mystery - in fact, in just about anything - but straight-up romance? Can't say I've ever been a big fan. But there will always be exceptions, like Anna and the French Kiss for example. This is one such exception.This is mindless, sexy teenage fun. With emphasis on the sexy. That cover look steamy to you? Wait until you see what this
No joke, this book is seriously hot, if you're put off by anything more than kissing and holding hands then you're nothing like me better off finding something else to read.The two main characters are interesting, likeable and relatable (especially Nikki), and best of all: they are refreshingly far from perfect.
I don't know how many times I've read both adult and young adult romances and the characters are all flawlessly charming - though, naturally, Luis is sex-on-a-stick ;)Also, this story follows a similar theme to Perfect Chemistry, and probably Rules of Attraction too but I haven't read that one yet.
Edit After reading august 16: I was seriously debating giving this book three stars, but my loyalty to the author stopped me from comitting the crime...
les cocottes I know you're gonna read this, so let me tell you that I'm a bit disappointed.
After you read it tell me what you think, okay?Edit: WHYYYYYYYYYY????
He’s such a good guy who doesn’t live with the angst that his big brothers have always lived with.
Just when he thinks he’s got life all figured out, Luis learns some disturbing news about his family that destroys his positive outlook on life.
Rating clarification: 2.5 stars*sigh*I was SO sure that I was gonna love this but sadly I didn’t *hangs head* For me, Chain Reaction was lacking the unbelievably hot and sizzling chemistry that made the other two books so special.
The fact that I couldn’t relate to Nikki at all and that I wanted to strangle her most of the time probably didn’t help either.I don’t know if it’s only me – and I’m really looking forward to hearing what my friends think about this – but to me the writing felt very choppy.
Wow, could this book be any cheesier?
I is disappoint.I remember reading about Alex, absolutely unaware of how my clothes had spontaneously combusted while I was sitting there, completely engrossed and hanging on to every word.
I re-read certain parts again and again, feeling my stomach to back flips and various other tricks that you only see in a Cirque Du Soleil performance, but Chain Reaction...
I don't know, I'm still kinda waiting for some reaction.
.....The most exciting thing about this book is the cover and that thing is a complete lie.
A LIE, I TELL YOU.I spent so much time looking forward to this.
I have read all three books in the Perfect Chemistry series. I ADORED the first one. The second one was good but it just didn't compare to the first one. Alex and Brittany were hard to compete with. HOWEVER, this one is now my absolute favorite. A definite must read!!!
С последната си книга от тази емоционална трилогия, Симон Елкелес отново не ме изненада откъм сюжетно действие, но май това е нещото, което харесвам в нейните книги... Като че ли понякога просто имам нужда от „и заживели щастливо”. Във финалната книга, авторката отново ни поднася двама герои, изпълнени с чувство за хумор, но и купища проблеми зад гърба си. В сюжета на книгата продължават да се наблюдават, подобно на предишните романи, теми като наркотиците, парите, семейството, доверието и не на последно място – любовта.Цялото ревю тук -> http://justonebooklover.blogspot.bg/2...
Bulgarian review: https://bookishipster.wordpress.com/2...The final book in Simone Elkeles' trilogy was, of course, cute and lovely but this time it dealt with some even more serious problems.
I really enjoyed the story, i liked Nikki and Luis' relationship, but they are definitely not my favourites.
I found both of them a little bit annoying at times, especially when Nikki wouldn't believe Luis when he was obviously telling the truth.
I understand why they had these issues, but i still feel like they could have been dealt another way.
I still liked it though and i will always love the way Simone Elkeles' books make me feel - happy and loved.
all I have to say is WHAT ARE YOU WAITING FOR!!?!Luis was the brother that you didn't really see much in the first two books, he was there and made a few small appearances but he wasn't what I was expecting.
Luis had always been described as the "smart" brother....
It was difficult to watch Luis and his internal struggle to stay uninvolved with the gang, though it doesn't work out for him exactly as he hoped.
it's been a while since I've read the other books) a "secret" involving Luis.
It didn't exactly come out how I was hoping...
Chain Reaction could have sated my lust for love, and yet, like its prelude, it fell flat in all the important areas.Luis Fuentes is doing his best to stay on the right path, and when he meets Nikki, the girl with the angelic face and beautiful soul, he thinks his life is finally starting to come together for good.
This book lacked in pacing, in climax, in characterization, and all because there are only so many times you can run a cliché, and because I’m damn sure Elkeles got lazy with her dialogues.Truthfully, I didn’t really like Luis.
Well, onto the review...So a summary of the book, well I can't be stuffed to write one up, i'm falling asleep at my laptop.
Continuing...So, it basically has the same plot line as the other books in the series, except this one had so many recurring characters.
We got to see how people were going and how everything ended up.
I a loved the twists in this book, the romance was by far the hottest out of the whole series.
Gah. But what can I say this has got to be the perfect end to the series, it wrapped everything up so perfectly.Did I say I loved it?
This book is like a really bad last minute paper at the end of a hectic term; when you've used up all your braincells for other essays and exams and you're running out of time but you have to hand something in.
Nikki is a sexy Latina who volunteers at the animal shelter but who acts like a judgmental bitch to ward people off, especially boys, except it only makes her even more desirable.
Luis wants to bang Nikki because he's a "daredevil" and she's a "challenge".
Nikki wants to bang Luis "to prove" they have no chemistry and that she can be "emotionally detached" with anyone...guess how this ends.
Oh My God, the cover...Luis, you kinky beast ;)
This is one of the only book series that at least sort of gets what the rest of us "bad kids" went through.Were the love stories a bit sappy and overdone?
I swear, there was so much of Alex (from book 1) in my first love, but I can pull out qualities of both Carlos and Luis that would match up with other boyfriends of mine.Call me blasphemous (Alex I still got your back!) but dare I say I liked this one just a little bit better than even book 1?
I know there's bits of it in the previous book, but if it was sprinkled on the previous two, then it was pure full on splashed on this one.
Guys, I know some have a thing against them but I love them!
Although I think I loved ROA prologue a little more :D* I really felt for Nikki at the beginning.
There are a few people like Nikki's best mate and her bf, including Marco, that I found interesting and would have loved to have known them better.
I'd say Nikki was a good pick for this story, she stood by what she believed in, which was really cool...she was however a bit looney sometimes but then again if I were her I'd probably be worse.As an individual story, this book was really good but compared to Alex's and Carlos' story...It was just okay.
But believe me when I tell you, Luis' story is a must read, trust me!
I kind of felt like a yo-yo as I was reading this...a little something this:Page ??
Go Nikki!"Page ??
3 or 5 stars depending on when you read it...
So I ended up skimming it and still knowing exactly what happens.
This is a  five-star read  if you  haven't  read the others, or are reading them out of order.
But if, like me, you're a bit OCD about reading a series in order, then this book may just be a  3-star read  in the end, because even though you enjoy the writing style and the characters, it'll all seem like a bit of 'the same old, same old' plot progression.
The thing about this book that is so off is that the characters are supposed to be the smart ones, they are supposed to no how things would go and yet they are just fools.Искрено съжалявам, че не искам да пиша отрицателно ревю в блога си поради очевидни причини -_-
I thought the series might die down knowing that this 3rd novel,was about Luis.
Simone Elkeles is too good to her readers,she knows excatly how we like it and how we want it.MMMMMM.......I Just have one question.
We get more then the average joe story plot in this novel.For instance.Alex and Brit: Marriage and babies...Swoons!
I love that Luis is totally into his culture,and doesn't let anyone tell him he's not.
Stop being lazy and pick it up,Or Else......I will harass anyone I know if they haven't finished the series yet.LOLZ!
I loved reading this companion series, it was really fun and family based which I loved. It had its funny moments, it had its cheesy moments and it had its more serious moments and I loved them all. I will say that sometimes the main love interests were annoying but I still highly enjoyed it. I think there is going to be a 4th book which is really exiting.
Както винаги приятно и леко четиво. Това най-много харесвам на книгите на Симон Елкелес. Мотивът за лошото момче в беда малко започна да се изтърква, затова съветвам авторката да приключи с тази сюжетна идея и да премине към по-велики идеи.
To me this one was the funniest in the series! :D Awe. ^^ Next book in the series please!!Full review to come... ;-)
5.24.2011OMG Is that a hot shower scene on the cover?YUuuuuuuuMmmmmmEEeeeeeee!!!*I just clicked on the cover to see a closer look of it and I just stared at the computer screen with my mouth hanging open and I think I just drooled a little*Can't wait, can't wait!!!
