https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5509247-sanditon

Η Ώστεν για ακόμη μία φορά διεισδύει στα ενδότερα της βρετανικής κοινωνίας με πολύ κέφι και καυστικό χιόυμορ… πολύ λυπάμαι που αυτό το έργο δεν ολοκληρώθηκε. Είναι φανερό ότι εαν ολοκληρωνόταν θα μιλούσαμε για ακόμη ένα αριστούργημα της αγαπημένης συγγραφέως. Δυστυχώς ήταν πολύ λίγο για να το χαρώ.
Reread -- I read it in this edition: https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5...I won’t rate this as it was unfinished at the time of Austen’s death (12 chapters that add up to fewer than 60 pages in my edition) but it was on its way to being at least a 4-star read.
A new type of setting for Austen is open to the handling of a diverse set of characters.
It’s perhaps pointless to wonder how this work might’ve been finished or revised; but it seems poised to have broken brilliant new ground for Austen.
An interesting read. How I wished she'd finished it!
Set in the emerging seaside village of Sanditon on the Sussex coast we are introduced to a large cast of characters dominated by the two minions of the community: Mr. Parker a local landowner with grand designs of turning a fishing village into a fashionable watering place offering the therapeutic or curative benefits of sea-bathing and his partner Lady Denham, the local great lady who has “a shrewd eye & self satisfying air” and cares little about the community and only her pocketbook.The story unfolds from the perspective of Charlotte Heywood, a young lady experiencing her first trip away from her family as a guest of Mr. and Mrs. Parker.
This story was such a good start.
Of course, we who love Jane Austen know that she couldn't finish it, because of her illness.
So we will have to wonder where the story goes.
The characters in the story are funny and well developed in just a short while.
I always wonder if she based her characters on people she knew or an amalgamation of people.
Austen is the Queen of One liners, "We have many leisure hours & read a great deal." Ahh, the dream.
"Her nerves are a good deal deranged." I know her!
A good start to what could have been...
2.5 It seems that one is either and Jane Austen fan or one is not. I apparently am not. It n=may have been the fashion of the time, to use twenty words when 5 will suffice but all that round and round just makes my head hurt. I do like her ironic perception on how people secretly feel and view others but in this one there is not much of that. So this will be my last Jane Austen and I cannot say I am sorry. After all many people dislike Middle march and I love it.
She herself is very unassuming and sensible, but when the charming Mr. Sidney Parker comes on the scene, her self-possession begins to slip and Charlotte finds herself wrapped up in intrigue, deceit, and gossip of the worst kind.I couldn't even tell where Jane Austen's original work left off and Marie Dobbs writing began!
(And I am very picky and critical about all things Austen, let me tell you.)All the characters are exactly what I would expect from an Austen novel; perfectly delightful and complex and interesting!
Of these few chapters, it is obvious that there can be no conclusion about the value of the book, but it seems to me that it would certainly be a good thing.Ο συγγραφικός επίλογος της συγγραφικής ζωής της Jane Austen, 12 κεφάλαια από ένα βιβλίο που τελικά δεν ολοκληρώθηκε ποτέ καθώς η αρρώστια που τελικά θα της στερήσει τη ζωή λίγο καιρό μετά έκανε τελικά το γράψιμο αδύνατο.
Από αυτά τα λίγα κεφάλαια είναι προφανές ότι δεν μπορεί να βγει συμπέρασμα για την αξία του βιβλίου, μου φαίνεται, όμως, ότι σίγουρα κάτι καλό θα προέκυπτε.
QUESTO mi è piaciuto!Le sorelle ipocondriache sono il top, amate tantissimo, AHAHAHAHAH! E valà, anche io sono finalmente riuscita a cogliere la famosa ironia della Austen, che forse fino ad ora era stata troppo timida per presentarsi.. :D
The novel remained unfinished, but at some point another took up the pen to complete it, and the flyleaf of this edition (Houghton Mifflin Company, 1975) bears the inscription of Jane Austen and Another Lady (who apparently is names Anne Telscombe).Starting to read this book, I found myself entering into that singular rhythm found in Austen novel; smiling to myself at the quaintness, and delighting as she drew out characters.
By about chapter 14, I put the book down and began to investigate more thoroughly where the break was from Austen's original and the pen of Another Lady.
Opera rimasta incompiuta a causa del decesso dell’autrice, ricorderà in eterno la sua folgorante e sopraffina ironia. Seppur arrechi tristezza, non deve mancare nelle letture degli appassionati di Jane Austen!
I loved the part written by Austen, which I loved and found surprisingly different from her other novels, going off in new directions.
I did quite enjoy her part too, but it isn't much like Austen really, although she does have a dry, witty tone and sometimes gets in some quite Austen-like weighted sentences - here's an example:"Removed for some time from the influence of each other, both he and his sister improved in temper; and though their real characters underwent no revolution, they at least learned to hide them more successfully from others." The big difference is that her story is lighter and frothier and more of a romance - more like Georgette Heyer.
I suspect if Austen had finished the book it would have been very different from this version.Really I'd like to give this book five stars for Austen and three for Dobbs.:)

Totally devastated that Austen died before finishing this book. It's so funny and smart and promising. Signals an interesting turn in setting. I just would have loved to have seen it realised. It makes me despair that she was taken from us in her prime. I wonder what her ouvre would look like had she lived longer.
Piacevole da leggere anche se evidentemente incompleto.Indispensabile lettura per chi... vuole leggere TUTTO di Jane Austen!
Another unfinished tale...enough to get you interested and wet your appetite, If only she’s had time to finish this tale, I want to know what happens next.
By my mid-20s, I'd read all of Austen's finished novels at least twice.
I beseech you Mr. Parker, no doctors here.and this, from Sir Edward, about the work of Robert Burns:He was all ardour and truth!
The coruscations of talent, elicited by impassioned feeling in the breast of man, are perhaps incompatible with some of the prosaic decencies of life; nor can you, loveliest Miss Heywood," speaking with an air of deep sentiment, "nor can any woman be a fair judge of what a man may be propelled to say, write or do by the sovereign impulses of illimitable ardour.and this, about Sir Edward's ambitions:Sir Edward's great object in life was to be seductive.
This is one of the more visually interesting editions of a Jane Austen novel that I own—admittedly I'm a little confused as to why there is a chicken on the cover, but it is striking.
I'm never sure, when reading Sanditon, if it reads as it does because it was a rough draft written by a woman already very ill, or if it is evidence of a change in Austen's writing style.
We have no more than a glimpse of him, but apparently Austen wanted to call the book The Brothers) would have proceeded.
Re-read this unfinished novel ready for the next Pemberley Digital adaptation. Very funny. Wish she had lived to finish it.
Had to read this unfinished Austen novel since it will be adapted by Masterpiece soon.
I didn’t read a version that had been finished by another author, so it just abruptly ends right when the story starts to really pick up.
Its hard to review an unfinished novel, especially one that was never edited, but what I read was awesome.
I soooooo wish I knew the fate of these people (especially the awful men haha).
It was fun to read...but I think I’m actually left feeling sad.
I’m sad for the words that are left unwritten.
I am sorry to say I didn't love this book, but it could be because it most notably ended when it was just beginning. So much potential that it really is quite a tragedy Jane Austen died before she could give the world one last gem. I will only give it 4 stars for what could have been, for though the setting up was slow and a little tedious, I was interested enough to wish for more, and 3 stars would be ungenerous given the author had no authority over her untimely and early demise.
So sorry that she died before completing this book (as well as many others!), as it has all of the markings of a fun, typical J.A. Book! Plan to locate and read the version where someone else finished this book..... maybe?
It is hard to rate a book that is unfinished, but I am sure this would have been 4 or 5 stars for me. I love the setting, and I have found the humor in this book delightful. It is unfortunate that Jane Austen was unable to finish it.
I am glad to see Austen's story about the English Coast.
I remember when in Emma Isabella and her family go to the coast for a healthyear vacation and when in Emma Lydia go to the coast and found a disreputable husband.
I had wondered why Austen did not write and publish a coastal or watering story.
Here is it.This story Jane stopped writing when her father died.
Big Life Change.
I would have so like to seen how she would dealt with the aristocratic family, particularly the young man's romantic shenanigans.
I think we have missed Austen at her best.
2/5
Like Persuasion, Austen's last completed novel, the Sanditon fragment shows a complexity and compassion in the satire of secondary characters which is less evident in her earlier works.
She left no notes behind, no hints about her intentions, just 11 perfect chapters, introducing us to the setting and lightly sketching in a huge cast of characters.
And it's impossible to say what lies behind the romantic mystery she introduces in the last chapter, although based on Austen's other works, we can make surmises.What's also interesting is how Austen moves away from the interiority of the drawing-room in her early novels, into the globalised world of post-Napoleonic England.
Mais surtout, Jane était déjà malade lorsqu'elle a commencé la rédaction de ce livre et cela ne l'empêche pas de se moquer une fois encore de tout et notamment des personnages qui accordent un peu trop d'importance à leur santé et de placer son action à Sanditon, une station balnéaire où viennent se soigner les gens malades.
Mais je n'en dis pas plus, je ne veux pas vous spoiler, et je conclurais simplement en disant que cela n'enlève rien au fait que pour moi ce livre est un véritable coup de coeur, que je range sans hésitation à côté de mes autres Jane Austen, et que je relirai très bientôt avec grand plaisir pour la cinq ou sixième fois!
Anche in questo caso abbiamo le prime pagine di quello che ha tutte le potenzialità per essere un nuovo grande romanzo dell'amata scrittrice inglese.Se ne I Watson il perno intorno al quale ruota la storia è il matrimonio, in Sanditon abbiamo le grandi ambizioni di Mr Parker per il piccolo centro di Sanditon, destinato secondo lui a diventare luogo di villeggiatura e cura più rinomato del paese.
Come per I Watson, pur sapendo che si tratti di un romanzo incompleto, alla fine delle 125 pagine sono rimasta delusa, non da Jane Austen (non sia mai), ma dal rimanere lì al primo incontro di Charlotte con Sidney Parker (un nome piuttosto moderno), alla sua prima visita a Sanditon House.
