https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202695.Genesis_and_Development_of_a_Scientific_Fact
But syphilis merely serves as the primary example for a much grander project in what Fleck terms comparative epistemology, as he explains how scientific knowledge work.
Fleck develops a detailed theory around 'thought collectives' and 'thought styles', the collective work that determines what it regarded as scientifically valid, the circulation of knowledge, and the definition of relevant problems and details.It's a clear precursor to Kuhn and Foucault, in terms of genealogical approaches to understanding previous scientific theories as true in their time, not as false ideas to discarded in the Whiggish march to absolute truth.
This is not a coincidence; Fleck mentions Wilhelm Jerusalem, who was in close contact with William James and disseminated much of American pragmatist thought to Germany.) The diagnosis of syphilis, for example, was only possible because of how a particular thought style directed the researchers to ask certain questions over others.
From a sociological perspective, the central importance of communication and meaning-change within and across thought collectives in Fleck’s theory of knowledge can usefully complement Pierre Bourdieu’s concepts of habitus and fields.
The commentary done by Kuhn was helpful to situate the review on Fleck's Genesis on that time.
Fleck's Genesis is recommended to be read for those who are interested to understand the social roots of the scientific fact (a matter of fact, this term 'fact' is also needed to be clarified further) and the relationship between individual scientist, scientific community and the scientific thought.
Fleck is different from Kuhn in term of viewing the function of revolutions in science.
Rather than Kuhn that talks about anomaly that can produce a revolution in science, Fleck, in my view, seems to discuss more on the genesis and development of a particular 'normal science' (to use Kuhn's term).
Where Kuhn got his big ideas. Fleck was also an endlessly fascinating man. I don't think that there has been a better analysis of the history of the germ theory of disease. And he chose syphilis as his main topic to boot. Just great.
By reflecting on the historical background of syphilis, Fleck develops a theory of thought collectives that determine which statements deserve to be canonized as fact. His text is a mentally rigorous exercise at the intersection of science and epistemology and requires a fine attention to detail. At times, I found the text somewhat repetitive; however, Fleck is ultimately successful in building support for a theory that may describe the progression of medicine, science, and general knowledge.
Contains the germ of Kuhn’s Structure of Scientific Revolutions decades before but meanders in minutiae and loses the thread.
While Fleck is noted as a philosopher of science by many, the epistemological notes that he presents are easy to beat back with the most basic early 20th century philosophy of science; both the empiricists and the German Kantians he should have been well read in can beat him back fairly easily resting only on preexisting work.Fleck's influence on Kuhn comes in large part from the methodology that acknowledges the importance of the thought processes of the larger group of scientists; this is the one thing that is likely revolutionary about Fleck's work.
He realised that discussions happen in thought collectives (he went way beyond science when he developed this concept), and these thought collectives may well "filter" facts - depending on what they consider relevant.
When he penned this tome, no thought collective really cared about what he had to say.
Then, 50 years later, a thought collective (that of philosophers of science) took interest in what he had to say.
Thought collectives are fickle like that.In order to illustrate his point, Fleck analysed the history of syphilis, making it the world's best book about syphilis ever published.
Fleck is one of the first people to present scientific facts as socially constructed, so he deserves a lot of recognition, and definitely more than he gets now.
However, it is also true that the scientific fact Fleck uses as a case study is the existence of syphilis.
It's still a great book and I recommend it to anyone interested in science studies - especially because a lot of later writers (notably Thomas Kuhn) lifted ideas straight from Fleck's work while barely Fleck at all.
But given that there are all kinds of philosophy of science books out there now, I'm less surprised than my professor is that most people choose one without any syphilis in it.
Das Buch, das Thomas Kuhn den Weg geebnet hat. Ludwik Fleck, ein Mediziner mit offenen Augen, beschreibt übersichtlich, verständlich und äusserst plausibel, was Wissen seiner Ansicht nach ist. Tatsächlich macht er Skeptizismus produktiv, eine Tat, die mich persönlich davor bewahrt hat, den Verstand zu verlieren. Ein Jammer, dass diesem brillanten Kopf nicht schon zu Lebzeiten die verdiente Anerkennung zukam. Obwohl er das wohl mit seiner eigenen Theorie begründen würde...
The groundbreaking work on the epistemology of science and how scientific knowledge is socially constructed, Fleck's book is deeper and more philosophical than Th. Kuhn's later Structure of Scientific Revolutions. In these positivist days, when any doubt of the current scientific orthodoxy is ridiculed and censured, Fleck gives a much-needed dose of perspective.
Although his writing style was hard for me to handle, the points of the book are very important and thought provoking.
It's a seminal work, but a slog to read.
Ground-breaking insight into the thought collectives that drive science.
Where it all comes from.
An excellent introduction to the social construction of scientific knowledge. Fleck was perhaps the first person to lay out the argument that science is socially constructed. An STS classic.
