https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312050.Icefire
My 9 year old daughter brought this book home for me to read.
She told the school Librarian that she was checking it out for me, and the Librarian let her check it out as her 3rd book (they are only allowed 2 books) since it was for me.I loved this book!
I loved the characters, even Aunty Gwyneth, who was soooo creepy.
I loved the clay dragons, and wish that I could have a few of my own!!
I also love the way that the dragons talk, and could picture the sounds that they were making!My favorite character would have to be Zanna.
Now I have to find the other ones and read them!!
It fixes everything that was wrong with the first book, and then proceeds to boil it in a spiritual, cosmic tale that is much too confusing and poorly executed to be put in a children's book.
Let me put it this way: I read novels about time-travel, alternate realities, and spiritual matters, and NONE of them are anywhere near as confusing as this book.
Immature jokes about shaking "talismans" and plenty of lust on the part of the main character, who, once again, does not seem to behave his age.If you didn't like the first book, don't read this one.
Icefire is indeed a step up on the maturity level compared to The Fire Within, yet the childish innocence of the first book manages to carry over as well.
One aspect of the book that really impacted me was the description of "auma" or someones inner fire.
It is the animating force of the Pennykettle Dragons, and it is a major part of the plot.
;-)All in all, Icefire is definitely a good read.
I will give some warning though, this book seems to open the door to the more cosmic aspects of the series, which may be confusing to some.
Chris D'Lacy wrote this series of dragon books, without the dragons.
There are dragons, just not as a person would think a dragon is.
This book is about a man named David living in a house with his landlord and her daughter.
The landlord creates clay dragons that David soon realizes come to life, and have a purpose.
In reality, this book does not do dragons, who are supposed to be ferocious, giant creatures justice, since they are as small as clay dolls.
A heart warming and then heart breaking book
But then she lost what made her aggravating and she became worlds better and I now support her relationship with David.
Lucy has a Luna-on-caffeine angle to her, which I just now realized.
I think had we seen a bit more of Liz, Luce, and Dr. Bergstrom, it would have been worlds better.
It would have earned a full out five, instead of a 3.5.I'll probably end up reading the others we have, because they have a nice new angle on dragons, giving them special jobs to do and making them small parrot-like friends that help out people.
:D New plot points are thrown in all the time which really keeps you on your toes giving the book its frenetic pace!
:DThe plot breezes along at a cracking pace introducing hedgehogs, dragons and bears with abundance and reads like a story that whatever your age you can really enjoy!
:DIcefire really expands the world is full of action, adventure, humour ('Going to save Henry's bacon!' Lol) and at the same time vast, a roller-coaster ride and action packed!
This supernatural-fantasy,mystery-thriller series has amazed me farther than i would've thought.Though it is an old book in the ongoing series i am very excited as the author shows more and more mysteries and more to come.
These books/series has changed my perspective by how I view other characters and their actions.
This book in particular out of the series so far has made me feel very eager to read more, also it made me feel very inspiring on how David doesn't want to become a writer necessarily but he is good at it.
the ice fire is a really good book where David now must find out about the location of the last fire tear but gwilanna is making plans to steal it and use the tear to make the dragon that Elizabeth will be incubating. but they thwart her plans and she disperses. 100/10 recommended
This book is really entertaining with many twists to it. I could relate this text to the real world, because of how the story is set in the perspective of a tenant with a really interesting landlady and her dragons. This is similar to the real world because different families have different beliefs and can have many really interesting stories.
Honestly, this book was very disappointing. I expected so much more. When I was younger and reading this series, it was so much better. Maybe it's because I've grown older. But I honestly hated this book. I don't see me reading the rest of the series in the future. The romance did not make sense and the plot was just too boring. As people say it was cringeworthy. I'm so sad that these books don't excites me anymore.
Icefire, by Chris d'Lacey, is a 426 page long children's fantasy novel. The book is about a boy named David. He is renting a room from Elizabeth Pennykettle, her daughter Lucy, and their mysterious clay dragons. In the epic second installment of the Last Dragon Chronicles, David must find the link between the dragons and the Arctic, and the secret of the icefire.  I personally loved Icefire. It was an extremely captivating book. The author’s fast paced writing style kept me turning the pages. F
Icefire, by Chris d'Lacey, is a 426 page long children's fantasy novel.
This is a quote from Icefire describing a character: “Suzanna- Zanna- Martindale was a girl in his department.
Another plus about this book is that it’s plot is original.
When I picked up this book, I expected a generic plot about a hero boy riding a dragon to defeat an evil witch or sorcerer.
I had never heard of, or seen, the concept of clay dragons.
Chris d'Lacey is a well qualified children’s author.
Icefire( The Last Dragon Chronicles, # 2) is worth $6.53 (paperback) on Amazon.com.
In Icefire there is a little drama, a lot of danger, and some adventure.
The reason why I said there is danger is because of aunty Gwyneth or really Gwilanna the dragon that wanted the fire tear that Guinevere had caught when Gawian had dropped the last of his spark.
I don't want to spoil the book, I hope you like the book.
I liked all the same things but i think what is best in this book was the suspence, the new characters and the conflicts.
The first thing i like is the suspence in the story.
The first story was realy setup for the next ones and in the firt book the suspence and climax doesnt come until the end and Ice Fire keeps the suspence going.
I also liked the new characters that came in Ice Fire.The new characters bring their own new stories and also reaveal a little bit more about the older and main characters pasts.
I think Icefire by Chris d'Lacey is one of the best books I have ever read.
The book always had you thinking about how each piece of information effects the present and the future.
In the book the main character, David, went through battles, polar bears, and special dragon magic.
In the last book David thought that the clay dragons were inanimate objects but now he finally realized that they were more than that.
It was worth reading every page of Icefire.
I would recommend this book to people that like to think of the Earth in a different way and also like myths
Icefire, by Chris d'Lacey, is about David trying to find the fire tear of Gawain, the dragon.
The story begins with David talking to Dr. Bergstrom who is the polar bear, Loral.
David, with the tooth of Rengar, tries to find Gawain's tear before Gwilliana, the Sybel, steals it to make a new, real dragon.
With the help of Greth, the wishing dragon, Grace, the listening dragon, Grettel, the potions dragon, and Gadzooks, the writing dragon, David sets out to the arctic to the Island of the Tooth of Rengar.
In all honesty, these are books that are fun at the time of reading them but as you get older they quickly lose their allure.I’ve always enjoyed dragons books and because of that I think it took me longer to realise it is a rather repetitive read.
Not that such a thing really matters all that much with children’s books, so long as the child is engaged with the story, but as I worked my way through the series they seemed to lose their fun somewhat because of this.By the time I reached the fourth book I was old enough and wise enough to realise I wanted something more from my reading.
ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssoooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooo gggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggggooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooodddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddddd!
In this sequel to The Fire Within, David must uncover the secret of the clay dragons to save Liz and Lucy from the evil clutches of the sibyl Gwilanna.
He must discover the link between the Arctic polar bears and the fire of the last dragon Gawain.
He must also deal with two girlfriends, a strange visiting college professor, a white hedgehog, a pushy publisher, and Mr. Bacon next door.
An enticing sequel, sure to make you want to read more of this series.
It's a very fun read even with the global warming, save the polar bears political correctness.
I thought the characters in this book were more interesting than "The Fire Within". The aunt is not who I thought she would be! I really liked hearing about Professor Bergstrom and Zanna, who turned to be... David's girlfriend! She cleaned her act up after acting like a Goth.
2nd book of 3. Started reading because it was given to Wyatt. Cute book about a lady how makes clay dragons and they become real and a student that comes to live with her and learn about the dragons and the history behind them
I liked the book because their was dragons in the book and they were made out clay. It also had facts about medieval times. It also talked about ancient polar bears.
While I enjoyed the first book things began to take a turn in this one. Just not as intriguing I guess. I stopped reading the series on this book! Bummer. . . .
No Comment
Having the new characters did make it more interesting and makes the reader want to see what will happen next especially when new character Zanna ends up quickening an egg that was in the dragons den making Liz basically out of the novel for around half of it and Aunty Gwyneth in charge.
Having the book also end on a cliff hanger has also made me want to see what happens in the next book and desperate to keep reading.I do wish that the book gave more insight into Zanna's character and how she was able to quicken the egg, as this is something which hasn't really been shown however I hope in future books this is something in which gets answered.
David names him and so the dragon becomes his, and after making a bizarre wish, things get a little crazy.
I like that we get a closer look at the dragons and their personalities.
David suddenly can communicate with dragons, a new love interest is thrust on to the scene, and there is visions/time travel/alternate dimensions that can muddle readers minds.I may a little biased again in the rating of this novel, but I have to give it 5 snowflakes.
When I read the blurb on the back, I found that it featured a lot about dragons so I bought it.
It was all pretty self-explanatory, I thought and was a good stand-alone book.I loved all the little dragons in the story, particularly Gadzooks and G'reth.
I liked everyone else too, of course, but those two dragons were my favourites ...
except I did not like Gwillanna!
That isn't a bad thing because I love surreal flights of fantasy.
Really enjoyed this book and I am looking forward to reading the rest of this series when I can get my excited little dragon-mitts on them.
I bought this book in London on a school trip, age 15.
I remember that I had to look up alot of things.
Like hedgehog.
When I found out this is book 2 some of my confusion got answered.
But now I am confused over other things.
Why the hell i Z forcing herself on him like some sexmaniac?
why is there like five different storylines that makes no since?
why didnt he write down the ice bear story that D writes insted since the book clearly has a safe the earth thing going on?
The two things that I didn't like about this book though was how much information they gave you at once, it often got confusing and hard to tell what was going on.
It also has a lack of description in the setting, this is a very important part of the book, can even sometimes tell you information about other parts of the book.
Overall this was a very good book, the plot and characters were very interesting but some details in the setting were lacking
over 432 pages; I read only 108 pages.
and cannot add this to my elementary collection.
It has a storyline with a college student named David Rain who is involved with a girlfriend he is considering moving in with.
Later a girl from his college department aggressively pursues him - grabs him by the neck and kisses him.
This is just not appropriate subject matter and age appropriate characters for elementary kids.
The first book in the series was weird but ok.
Definitely NOT recommended for ES.
Why do the publishers say ages 8-12?
It is not EVEN in that ballpark!
