https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91439.The_Beet_Queen
I was looking forward to reading this novel for some time.
I read LaRose, and thought it quite good, very realistic, and a story that left you thinking about some important human issues.
I understand the book contains characters brought over from Love Medicine.
I wonder if it would have struck a different chord if I had read that book first.
It contains characters that were carried forward into LaRose, so I seem to be reading these books out of sequence.
I have hopes to be brought back to Erdrich, but if this had been my first of her novels, I think I would have said she is not for me.
Other things I loved:- fabulous, quirky characters, including three especially strong female characters (I'm drawing a blank right now whether we meet Mary Adare anywhere else, or Dot - I think for sure the latter.*)- gorgeous, poetic language - the most powerful opening chapter I've read in a long time: writers, take note- some gentle magical realism (not as much as in her others - but there is less spirituality/Catholicism here overall compared to her later works)- a ton of humour: this might be one of her funniest!
Regardless, The Beet Queen is a strong and integral link in the Erdrich oeuvre.
From the very first page I was reminded why I added all Louise Erdrich's books to my list after reading Love Medicine: the characters.
The sheer exhilaration of knowing these people is a tonic to the jaded reader, and knowing other people always enables me to know myself, here most uncomfortably.For example, the first segments introduce Adelaide and her two children Karl and Mary.
I was able to forgive Adelaide, but I could not condemn Mary and Adelaide's sister Fritzie for the vengeful way they treat her: both ended up justified in the court of my heartI loved this book, but not as much as I loved Love Medicine, because although there are some Chippewa people, there isn't much...
Within The Beet Queen are familiar names and faces, such that I encourage any reader to begin with Love Medicine to get the full scope of the Kashpaw history, but it's not necessary to wring full satisfaction out of this novel.
It may seem that three-stars is a low rating, but I assign this within the context of the other Erdrich novels I have read.
The Beet Queen didn't elicit the same sense of wonder and depth of emotion as Love Medicine or The Round House and at times I felt a profound weariness.
I depended heavily on the family tree in Love Medicine so I kept going back to it here and trying to understand.
I just drove myself crazy instead.This story takes place alongside the events of Love Medicine.
Some of the characters are the same and all of the families from Love Medicine are in here.
The POV characters are Mary, Karl, Sita, Celestine, and Wallace in first person, with occasional bits told in third person of other characters or locations.
I liked this story more than Love Medicine because it was more cohesive and linear.
My latest read is The Beet Queen, by Louise Erdrich, a unique tale, and I must honestly say that I'm not sure how I feel about it.It starts out by introducing us to Adelaide, a "kept woman," who has three children to a married man.
Those children, Karl, Mary, and a baby boy, end up going three separate ways.
Now, that's a novel idea: a bed with pockets in every corner, so you don't have to get up for anything!At the end, I thought that maybe Adelaide's granddaughter was going to escape in the same way she did, but--that's not to be.
And I kept reading, despite the fact that I had no idea where this story was headed.
Louise Erdrich is the queen of quirky characters and strange stories.
I might be wrong, because this is only the second book of hers that I have read, so far.
It seems like no one is ever normal or looks normal or acts normal.
I like it.
It happens in Louise's stories.
Many of the characters in this story are unlikeable.
Sita, Karl, Russell and Wallace were no better, but I was not compelled to like them.I can't say any more without giving things away and I dislike writing spoilers in my reviews.
Don't read this book if you think you are going to find out something about vegetables.
But, in my thick-head I did not grasp Erdrich's dark satiric tone until the last 60 pages.
And, Erdrich avoids naming anyone's race until in the final pages where she states that Celestine as an Indian, a six-footer.
But these main characters are drawn so finely that they defy typing.A final confession: it took me about a month to read "Beet Queen" primarily due to the lack of a compelling narrative line.
For me there was no hook - mostly a series of narrators that congealed in the last few pages.
North Dakota sets the stage for the story of Mary Adare and her friends and family.
Mary's infant brother is snatched from them at the fair.
Left with nothing, Mary and Karl hop on a train and set off for Argus, the hometown of Aunt Fritzie and Uncle Pete and their daughter, Sita.
Mary stays in Argus and grows up in her aunt's house; Karl heads off for unknown parts.
Mary snatches Sita's best friend, Celestine, and the fun begins.
Mary and Celestine become fixtures in Argus, eventually running Fritzie and Pete's butcher shop.
Sita has other plans.This is a story about family, more than anything else.
I was intrigued by the characters, the situations they found themselves in, and their reactions to those situations; I was captivated by the luminous beauty of Erdrich's prose.
Erdrich lavished attention on the minute details of 1960s cooking, but as the book progresses, there's so little attention to anything that might matter to these characters outside of their bitter ties to one another.
Their worlds shrink and become too small for things like hope and forgiveness; they interact with such a limited range of people.
En tan solo una decena de páginas, un hombre muere asfixiado como resultado de un accidente laboral, tres hermanos son abandonados por su madre —que se da a la fuga con un acróbata aéreo mientras realiza uno de sus espectáculos itinerantes—, un bebé es robado y un chico de catorce años mantiene relaciones sexuales con un desconocido en un vagón de tren.
No obstante, si algo nos recuerda la fantástica novela de Louise Erdrich es que cada herida, por muy profunda que sea, encuentra su propia manera de cicatrizar.Los tres hermanos mencionados al principio toman enseguida caminos divergentes que, sin embargo, no dejan de entrecruzarse durante toda la novela (atrapando a otros muchos personajes entre sus redes).
my 4th Erdrich So far I've loved each of them equally for their own reasons.This one felt sort of like reading a scrapbook moves right along and covers a lot of unexptected ground. It's set in or around the same town as "master butcher's singing club" and has some of the same family names as "love medicine" and "tracks". It's good to revisit these people in this place.I'm an easy mark -- love anything with deadbeet mother!
It's hard to describe how I really feel about Louise Erdrich's The Beet Queen.
That's what The Beet Queen was: intense, unfortunate, and heartbreaking.
The Beet Queen tells different narratives from different point of views during 1932-1971 in North Dakota.
I felt bad for Mary because she ended up alone.
She was a spoiled unappreciative ingrate and I absolutely abhor reading her parts.I couldn't help but feel since this is part of a series, and The Beet Queen is not first of it, I felt a bit of a disconnect.
The Beet Queen confirmed my observation that, in some respects, Louise Erdrich is the "Flannery O'Connor" of Native American literature.
Except for a few rare characters like Fleur Pillager, the Native American characters grow up in a society that has tried to, if not exterminate them, at least relegate them to "underclass" status.
In The Beet Queen, Fleur Pillager once again appears, not as a main character - but, in a secondary role - the link to The Beet Queen's uncle, Russell.
Russell - a Native American - is the town of Argus' most decorated war hero.
It is told through the lenses of the three girls, Mary's brother Karl, Celestine's brother Russell, and one or two friends of their family.
"The Beet Queen" begins in the quasi-magical perspective of a child, with Mary and Karl's mother abandoning them at a fair.
Settling in Argus, Mary "steals" Sita's best friend Celestine, beginning a lifelong friendship that is, despite all other happenings, the heart of this novel.
Raw and unsparing in its portrayal as the characters are to each other, Erdrich lets the ugly, flawed and uncompromising parts of each person shine.
Recently I read Plague of Doves by Loise Erdrich (her latest novel, click on title for review).
Although I enjoyed that book, I liked this more.
The set up was similar, each chapter from a different character, however, the characters were more select and the time frame was always forward moving.
Moving from character to character was seamless.
This book is more mainstream that Plague of Doves.
After the opening of this novel appeared on this year's AP exam, my students wanted to know what it was about, so we looked at the summary on Amazon and also at the one-star reviews.
At that point, based on the very odd-sounding plot, they challenged me to read the book.
I've now completed that challenge, and I have to admit it was a bit of a challenge, as this is an odd novel, full of difficult to like characters and strange plot twists.
Not the weirdest or the worst book I've ever read but not one I'm going to recommend either.
Not a sympathic character in the whole book, it's like driving by an accident- you can't help but look. You finish reading because the old gossip inside you won't let you quit, but when you're finished, you think... why'd I read that book anyway. More of character sketches in a setting, full of horrible people you don't want to know, it remains masterfully written.
Like Love Medicine, many parts of this second book were published individually as short stories.
Yet, it still holds onto some of the advantages of short stories: a number of the chapters (particularly the early ones) have real kick to them.
It's about nature versus nurture, how some aspects come from how we were born and some from how we were raised.
It's about shared misery, and how it can jump from person to person like a plague.
It's about the webs that connect us together into society, how they can fray and come back together.
I really enjoyed this book.
It was a bit hard to get into, because I had been reading a very different kind of book before this.
This is a NOVEL, a great American novel, with rich characters that get stuck with you and that make you think about the kind of person you are and the kind of choices you make and how you act towards other people.
I love Native American themes, characters, and plots.
I feel it is such a big part of the American narrative, but it is hard to get it authentic.
I liked how the characters' whole lives were in the book.
What I liked: the storytelling, the constant switching of points of view, some of the imagery.What I didn't like: the characters, the sadness, the feeling that none of it matters.According to some, this author is supposed portray the voice of America and to represent the true American novel.
This one seems like many other regular, modern works of fiction that I've read recently.
This book cements my feelings: I'm not a big fan of modern American fiction.Oh, and then I read a few other reviews.
I'm also thinking I haven't yet read enough modern American fiction to give up on it.
This novel is about the Midwest (please graciously accept my oversimplification; I am also from Minnesota and it was how I best connected to it) and it's good at what it does. It's my first Louise Erdrich book. I'm definitely eager to read more.
I did not enjoy this book. I liked the setting, but that was about it. I never found myself caring about any of the characters or the plot.
The Beet Queen was a good book i liked how the author made the chapters the view of the characters. And how it all started the beginning of the book to the end was amazing. I suggest reading it.
Unlike the 1st book, the writing style didn't work for me in this one. I didn't like any of the characters, and was bored silly because I didn't care what happened to them. I'm hoping the next one is better. Happy reading everyone:)
This is the second book written in the style of an extended network of relations and families, the first being Love Medicine.
You learn backstories and get snippets of characters briefly mentioned in other books, or mentioned at other times in their lives.
Dot is a character mentioned in Love Medicine who I loved for her ferocity.
Her family members' lives are followed from childhood to middle age, and watching the characters grow and age was a real treat.
If you enjoy strong characters and interesting family dynamics, this book is a good choice.
Her first novels, including or starting with the Beet Queen, and Love Medicine, came out in the '70s when I was in college, and I didn't have the time to take them on then with what was required of my classwork.Later, when living in Minneapolis in the '80s and '90s, I read a lot of her work from that period, when she was married to Michael Dorris and before his tragic suicide.
This included their joint novels from when they were living in New England and raising their family including the adopted child who had foetal alchohol syndrome in "The Broken Cord", and "Crown of Columbus".Louise's latest book, "Roundhouse", is another North Dakota based novel.
What it means to be Indian in a world that pays Indians so little heed is marvelously explored.I think what I loved most about this book is that it makes the case that broken families and addictions and errant children are universal experiences, not the prerogative of any single race.
But still, it was a pleasure to spend time inside this book, even if some of the characters are so wrung out with meanness I would like to cheerfully punch them in the head.
The characters are different and complex and I'm not sure if I really, truly liked them.
Mary and Karl are orphans, in a way, as their father has died and their mother ran away.
Mary lives with her mom's sister and family while Karl travels the country doing what he needs to make ends meet.
I'm glad that I read the book, definitely.
I did read another of this author's books, "The Master Butcher's Singing Club" which I did like very much.
And there are others of Erdrich's that I will most likely read.
Has a different style.
Neve-wed mom Adelaide Adare and her three children, twelve year-old Karl, ten-year old Mary, and infant (who is later named Jude) attend a fair in Minneapolis.
When Jude gets hungry and begins to cry, a man takes the child, promising to feed him and bring him back.
Karl and Mary hop a train to Argus, North Dakota, where their aunt and uncle live.
Returning to Argus one time to take a male lover, and to father a child with Mary's on-again-off-again best friend.
After Karl leaves, Wallace (his jilted male lover), Celetine (his abandoned wife) and Mary work together to raise his child, Dot, who grows up angry and rebellious.
