https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4836308-the-physick-book-of-deliverance-dane
Besides the fact that Connie already said she didn't remember her Granna, I also don't think a 3 or 4 year old child would comprehend the situation well enough to "chuckle at the memory" 20 years later.Seriously, this is a real problem for me.
She acts as though she never heard names like Patience and Prudence, which were common in the time period that she has supposedly studied for years.
If you're eagerly looking forward to reading this book, avoid my scathing review.
Trying to read this book was like having Katherine Howe jumping up and down in front of me waving her arms and saying, "SEE?!!
SEE?!!" Yes, I see that you possess descriptive abilities, abilities much better suited to technical writing than to novels.Remember that old story about the optimist digging through a pile of manure saying, "There's got to be a pony in here somewhere!"?
Well, there may be a story somewhere in this book, but I wasn't interested in digging through all the manure to uncover it.
The main character was so boring and flat and every time she had a thought I wanted to smash my head into the wall.
The writing was so slow and I really had to force myself to finish this one.
Also it really stretched my suspension of disbelief especially believing that the main character is supposed to be intelligent like yeah okay.
I'm so bored of skinny attractive smart girls who are insecure but still persevere.
I really wish I could get a refund for the time I spent making myself finish reading this.
The topic is of interest to me on lots of levels (I too am related to many of the individuals on both sides of the Salem trials), I've visited the area before, the author has great credentials and has been educated at outstanding schools, the cover is beautiful, the publisher is pouring out a great deal of money into hype, and I enjoy historical fiction as well as looking at something from a different angle.
I so looked forward to receiving my copy and when it arrived, I was delighted with the beautiful cover and feel of the book.
This book's hype probably contributed a great deal to my disappointment.
There weren't any hanging plot lines, so it was nice to see a story nicely wrapped up while still allowing the reader to speculate on the future of the characters.
I also loved how Katherine Howe wrote the character of Connie, as a fact-driven, meticulous grad student, because if she hadn't done Connie that way, the second part of the book would have been too unbelievable.
What if witchcraft is as real a problem as the flu, especially in the days when modern medical answers weren't available?
The juxtaposition of the historical story and the modern story were very well done and the characters were likable and well thought out.
I thought that the main character of Connie Goodwin seemed a little dim-witted for a graduate student in history, missing many many obvious answers in materials she was researching for clues to her mystery.
While it was a fun read, I think that overall this book would appeal more to younger readers (high school/college) rather than rabid fans of historical fiction/mysteries in the vein of David Liss, Iain Pears, Ariana Franklin, Margaret Lawrence and even the lighter stories by Tasha Alexander and Deanna Raybourn.
Rating: 3.9* of fiveThe Publisher Says: A spellbinding, beautifully written novel that moves between contemporary times and one of the most fascinating and disturbing periods in American history-the Salem witch trials.Harvard graduate student Connie Goodwin needs to spend her summer doing research for her doctoral dissertation.
The basic story, a grad student in American History's discovery of a previously unknown primary source for data on the Salem witch trials, is built to excite the historian in me.
This has gotten a lot of buzz lately in the library world. Four librarians including myself had holds on it before it even arrived at the building. Apparently we'd all been hooked by the same intriguing blurb. Don't make the same mistake! A historical mystery that is slow to no purpose, containing flat, unexceptional writing and an utterly predictable and unoriginal plot. Whatever, I guess it was fine. Just, am annoyed from having to be reminded once again that one must read reviews with great big handfuls of salt.
This is the story of Connie Goodwin, a doctoral candidate in American History at Harvard, who (upon her mother’s request) spends the summer cleaning and clearing out her grandmother's house that has been vacant for 20 years in Marblehead, Massachusetts.
While browsing through her grandmother’s old books, Connie stumbles upon a very old key in a bible.
The link in the story between contemporary times and the past is gripping as well as the commentary on religion and the Salem Witch Trials.
I especially liked that Ms. Crouch uses so much detail when describing Salem in 1692.
Rating Clarification: 2.5 StarsAuthor Katherine Howe's take on the Salem Witch trials of the 1690's features a little twist: her story imagines that one of the accused really had supernatural talents....The story begins in 1681 when young healer Deliverance Dane visits the home of Peter Petford and attempts to help his ailing 5 year old daughter Martha.Fast forward to 1991: Harvard University, where our main character Connie Goodwin is getting ready to answer some final questions in her qualifying exam for PhD candidacy.
In fact, Connie is so incredibly dense (view spoiler)[ that her very own full name, "Constance", completely floors her with it's colonial associations.
The glimpses into the past we were given as we moved between 1991 and the late 17th and early 18th centuries flowed very well, and I really feel like the author did a brilliant job of taking us from one time period to another, as we moved from chapter to chapter.
I really enjoyed that aspect of the story because Sam was a great character, but I wish we could have seen a little more relationship development between them, so that I could have felt the depth of her emotions for him during certain parts of the book.
It had me imaging what it would be like if I had lived during this time period, and answered questions I’ve long had.
❝We can understand the world only through the language that is at our disposal. Every period has its own linguistic - and perceptive - lens.❞Historic and modern-day Massachusetts reunite in this tale of one woman's unintentional climb through her family tree. Connie discovers more than she bargains for while researching for her doctoral dissertation. What I Liked: - I have read several books about the Salem witch trials, but none that were based in modern times. This put the trials into a new pe
- I have read several books about the Salem witch trials, but none that were based in modern times.
This fact lends an air of authority, truthfulness, and connectedness to the tale.- I loved the Interludes where we popped back in time to revisit several members of the Dane family line as they practiced their craft, defended themselves, and made their living in their highly suspicious environment.- The characters were fleshed out, the setting well-established, and the pacing was steady.- The cover art pulled me in even before the story did.
The average reader picks up the clues entire chapters before Our Heroine, Connie, figures them out, and often has to stop reading long enough for her to catch up.
As several other reviewers have pointed out, the heroine doesn't seem to possess enough brain matter to complete a simple crossword puzzle, never mind work on her PhD while simultaneously solving a Big Mystery.
And seriously, if you are on the hunt for a missing book, maybe you could explore the actual house where you found the big clue.
And when Connie had the big revelation that her real name was Constance????
I felt much like Connie; searching for a book.
The modern portion of the tale was set in 1991.
This reflects poorly on Howe’s ability as an author.
Her main character, Connie Goodwin uses pre Google research methods.
I understand her need for Connie to search in card catalogues, and the ability to handle the actual books, it propels her through the plot.
Howe should have wholeheartedly embraced 1991 time period with even half of the detail and accuracy as her tales of the 1690’s.
The concept was interesting. Unfortunately, the execution was not as good. Also, it featured a "historian" who apparently knows nothing about doing historical research. (I speak as a historian.)Also, I guessed the villain and the "big twist" fairly early, which didn't help.A real disappointment.
The book essentially follows our main character  *Connie*  who is a smart history-buff who gets sent by her mom during the summer to clean up and sell her grandmother’s house but when she arrives at the abandoned house, she stumbles upon a key in a bible that has a scroll attached to it written “Deliverance Dane” and being the history geek that she is, her journey to discover a missing part in the Salem Witch Trials in 1680s begins.This book was told in Dual time-frame, In the 1990s and Interludes of the 1680s, which I absolutely love because at some point the similarities between them start showing up and I live for that stuff.
The plot of this book is about a modern graduate student's research into a primary source concurrent with the Salem witch trials.
However, I found so much = the storyline, events, locales and characters predictable, and at the same time, somewhat unbelieveable.
How could the main character clean out this old family property, do all that primary source sleuthing, and have the paper written by the end of September?
I felt as the clues presented themselves, Connie jumped to lucky conclusions, made assumptions and inferences.
I knew receipt and recipe were inter-changeable.
I just couldn't buy Connie or her instructor as Harvard material.
But what I found was that this book was uneven: the projections back into the colonial New England past were compelling; those to 1991-1992 were filled with one-dimensional characters, highly predicable events, ridiculous coincidences, and superficial glosses on everything from love to history to the universe and its workings.I have to say--as an art historian whose area is ancient and, therefore, who often deals with precious and delicate materials--that the heroine's touching of one text with her bare hands and throwing of another one into a fire are unconscionable, even if fictional!Moreover, Howe wrote the "villain" as so caricatured from the outset that the reader was immediately clued in that this was not going to be suspenseful in any way.
The series supposedly took place in San Fran but considering that the money was always marked with Queen Elizabeth II's head, the series was mostly likely filmed in CA.
Anyway, the Boston show was about a history grad student who discovers that her ancestor might have been a witch.Go watch that instead of trying to read this book.
At the very least, you can drool over good looking people.I do not know how this got named one of the top ten books of 2009 as well as all the other endorsement blurbs on the cover.
She doesn't sound like a grad student because a.
I’ll call one of them “Searching for a Long-Lost Book,” and another “All My Forebears Were Secretly Witches.” Katherine Howe‘s The Physick Book of Deliverance Dane features both of these, so it’s no surprise that I’d wanted to read it for a long time.
The Physick Book of Deliverance Dane has sense of place in spades, from the old house itself to the sailing bar to the tourist kitsch of modern-day Salem.
Second, and more problematically, the villain is just too obvious — painfully so.Don’t read The Physick Book of Deliverance Dane for the mystery aspect.
Until the last quarter of the book I could've put it down at any time and never given it a second thought.
I thought much of the imagery was over the top and some of it just plain stupid.
Books should paint a picture.
Not only do I still not see the picture, it distracted me from the book.
What was going on was so incredibly obvious from the very beginning of the book that it was really annoying that she was so stupid about it.
And the stupid little ending with the old couple on the bench...there aren't words.
This book felt like it was intended for middle-schoolers; pedestrian writing, uninteresting characters, and a connect the dots plot.
The historical sections sounded like they came straight from Wikipedia.
I could have overlooked that, if the story had been more convincing.I am beyond baffled by Connie's inexperience with the library at the college she attends.
As a Ph.D candidate in colonial history, she would have spent countless hours in the library.
Her unfamiliarity with colonial language, names, and commonplace spelling variants was perplexing as well.There were several scientific and historical errors, and I found myself exclaiming in disbelief at the time, but the specifics elude me now.
Reviewed by Angie Fisher for TeensReadToo.comConnie Goodwin, like many young women, has issues with her mother.
So when Grace asks her daughter to interrupt her doctoral research at Harvard to go to Marblehead for the summer and ready her grandmother's house to be sold, Connie wonders why she agreed.And that was before she walked into the ancient cottage that has no electricity.Connie's knowledge of Colonial history, her chosen field of study, comes in handy as she learns the secrets of the past occupants of the house, one of whom was tried in the Salem witch trials.
I didn't expect to get slightly emotional at the end as I pondered the fates of the women accused of witchcraft in the Salem Witch Trials.
When Connie arrives, she finds a moldering old house buckling under the weight of disrepair, garden overgrowth, and disuse.
The bones of the house are strong and Connie finds herself relaxing into its comfort as she sorts through her grandmother's possessions.
Haunted by visions of the witch trials and life in 1692, Connie realizes that her path and Deliverance's are intertwined.
A Sunday in the Park book club read.The plot: Harvard grad student Connie is assigned by her mother to clear out her grandmother's house, and discovers her connection to the Salem Witches.I was, on the whole, underwhelmed, which is what happens when you pick up a book that's touted as a Brilliant Bestseller!
THIS reader was thoroughly annoyed in quite a few places: the old, abandoned house that mysteriously had not had its mains water cut off and was well supplied with oil lamps whose oil had mysteriously not dried up over the last, what, thirty or forty years; the entire function of Sam-the-love-interest who, I swear, was just stuck in the book so he could be In Grave Danger; the slipping into the POV of the dog or even, at one point, a rat; and the absolute worst, the relentless use of New England dialect.
It drives me nuts when people get HUGE book advances and media attention for such sloppy work.
Also, all the events in the book could have taken place over a long weekend (okay, two weeks max) but for some reason the chapters skip over weeks and months in between, so the action takes more than a summer.
We're supposed to believe that she knew all the time that people's lives were at stake and still does nothing but hint on the phone, and the one time she gets close to telling Connie something's up, Connie hangs up on her.
Isn't it simply enough to point out a character speaks with an old fashioned Brahmin Bostonian accent?
Of course, she is not writing for an audience of one but I think most Americans these days can imagine a Massachusetts accent.
I realize that not all Massachusetts accents are the same but when she has certain working-class characters speak in dialect it is with an air of condescension I find grating.I would have let these things go had it not been for the silly, Lifetime Original Movie tone in which the plot is slowly unveiled.
I would have been really annoyed if I bought it in hardcover.I've clicked the little "spoiler" box here at Goodreads, but if you read this book in another way, you are hereby warned.
In the afterword, Katherine Howe noted that there have been several books explaining the reasons behind the Salem Witch Trials.
(The moldy bread is my favorite.) However, she wanted to write a book where the witchcraft was real--as the people of Salem believed that it was real.
I think I would have given this novel a higher rating if not for the villain; his identity is pretty clear straight from the QE.Other people may like this book more than I do.
There has never been a genuine grimoire, aka book of shadows or spell book, found in the US.
When Harvard doctoral student Connie Goodwin moves Marblehead, MA to rehabilitate her grandmother's historic home, there are many signs and portents that suggest that Connie may be hot on the trail of the first American grimoire.
In the course of the crisis, Connie discovers who she is.Katherine Howe had turned out a compelling modern/historical mystery that is, for the most part, well grounded in fact.
Deliverance Dane is a genuine thriller, one that requires an open mind, but is ultimately satisfying.
I thought this book started so slowly. I enjoyed the "Interlude" parts but thought the whole process Connie was going through was boring. Once she was at her Granna's house though the book picked up for me. I've always been interested in the Salem witch trials and found myself lost in those parts of the book.
