https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35506211-the-flight-attendant
My reviews can also be seen at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...4.5 Stars!!After enjoying quite a few of Chris Bohjalian’s previous novels, I was quite excited to have the opportunity to read his upcoming novel, “The Flight Attendant”.Flight Attendant, Cassandra (Cassie) Bowden wakes up in a hotel room in Dubai.
He’s not sleeping…….He’s dead.When Cassie realizes the man is dead, she’s shocked and terrified.
It gave me a bit of an idea of what the police were thinking, without giving anything away.I enjoyed learning what life might be like working as a flight attendant.
There were quite a few funny and/or interesting stories about the things that happen on different flights.
This plot is intricate and complex with well-researched details and data providing clues for the reader in this story of international suspense.
Our flight attendant, Cassie, is a psychologically damaged woman who single-handedly drinks more in an evening than I do in a year.
Cassie, with all her flaws, is a human being as real as any fictional character can possibly become.
I loved her.I don’t want to give away any of the story line, because it goes in places you will not expect.
I also loved reading about the flight schedules, the day-to-day life, 
Slow burn read about a self destructive flight attendant who awakens to discover her one night stand dead beside her.
Cassie became a flight attendant to run away from her past.
Barely remembering what happened between her and Sokolov due to a night of excessive drinking, Cassie awakens to find him dead.
And the epilogue made me roll my eyes--it just didn’t seem to fit the events of the novel or Cassie’s character.
The Flight Attendant started out promising, but the ending turned it into a disappointing read for me.I received a copy of this book from the publisher and Edelweiss in exchange for an honest review.
She’s drinking way too much, punctuated by emotionless nights in beds of total strangers during her layovers.
She knows full well this behavior needs to stop....only she can’t.
During a stop-over in Dubai and a long night of heavy partying, Cassie wakes up with the worst hangover ever.
Did someone come in during the night and kill him or worse...
This was my first read from this author, but I will now be going back to find some of CB’s previous books.Thank you to NetGalley, Doubleday Books and Chris Bohjalian for an ARC to review in exchange for an honest review.
Cassie Bowden, a flight attendant/party girl who boasts of her partying ways and many one-night stands.
A hotel room in Dubai.A murder.A memorable night for Cassie OR NOT.....
Told from Cassie and Miranda's POV we get to hear their thought processes as they ponder the details involved in the night of the murder and what went wrong!
The author's skill in character building was perfect - creating unique characters with emotional depth.
The author did an amazing job researching each aspect of the story making it both believable and authentic.
Such a talented author , I will be reading more from him very soon!
Retracing her memories from the night before, she recalls that a mystery woman, Miranda, shared a drink with Cassie and Alex.
Was Miranda involved, or was it someone else entirely?Told in alternating chapters from Cassie and Miranda’s perspectives, The Flight Attendant was a slow building, captivating read, ending with a most shocking surprise that was worth the wait.
I’ve read some other books by Bohjalian that were literary fiction, and this foray into well-researched espionage/mystery/suspense was pure genius.
Thank you to Chris Bohjalian, Doubleday Books, and Edelweiss for the complimentary copy.
The Flight Attendant will be published on March 13, 2018.
This one kept me reading late into the night.
When she turns to peek at the man she knows is next to her, she's stunned.
The man she slept with last night is dead.
And she has no idea what happened to him, the American named Alex she met on the plane who has certainly met an untimely end.Stunned, confused, and terrified, she is due back at her own hotel soon.
Sometime in-between their love-making, a woman named Miranda joined them for some drinks.
She didn't stay too long, but she would certainly remember Cassie's face, right?
If Cassandra doesn't remember what happened...
Imagine waking up next to a dead guy!That’s what happened to Cassie, a flight attendant with a predisposition to blackouts and one-night stands.
Expect hangovers, interrogations, lies, and flights to Paris and Rome.You would think that waking up next to a dead guy would make Cassie switch to Perrier, but oh no, she keeps swilling down the hard stuff.
And I really don’t think there was a better way to end the story.Complaint Board (in small print)I know it’s totally weird to have a list of complaints for a 4-star book.
I wouldn't let these things stop me from reading it but I did feel that they took away from my overall enjoyment.
(You can tell it's still a good book, otherwise these things wouldn't bother me so much.) 1.
The first of these is that WE KNOW she has a drinking problem, you don't have to tell us (via EVERY character) all the time.
When it's not believable, it's not enjoyable - and you don't have to actually be a spy to know that.
THAT BEING SAID, this book isn't terrible - in fact, I found it to be a pretty enjoyable read.
Cassandra: Hi, I'm Cassie.
Based on my extensive experience I see passed-out drunk and blackout drunk as two completely different categories.
And, when will I ever learn that even three or four drinks and high heels are a poor combination?
Now about that dead guy, I regained consciousness next to, the more I think about it I'm almost certain that I didn't cut his throat.
But, no one is going to believe me.Chorus: We're Cassie's friends and family.
We always expect the worse of Cassie.
It's odd the way she abuses herself and is so nice to the homeless kitties.Kirkus Reviews: The moral overcomes the mystery in this sobering cautionary tale.
It ends with a taut, exciting finale as well.Cassie Bowden is a flight attendant who doesn’t believe in moderation when it comes to alcohol and sex.
Because she has gaps in her memory, she decides to catch the flight to Paris rather than find out how they deal with drunken women and possible murderers in Dubai.The mystery and twists and turns make this a fun, exciting read.
After all, alcoholism is an inherited disease, and she’s only like her father in that she drinks too much.
3 wish I could have liked it better starsI was truly looking forward to this novel as I have read and enjoyed some of Mr Bohjalian's novels. This one however, left me with a distinct sense of disappointment. I didn't like the main protagonist at all and thought she was a hot mess. So sorry to say, that this book for me rates a 3 star value. I always believe that when one goes into a book with much anticipation, that oftentimes we find ourselves disappointed and left kind of with a blah feeling.
This event triggers an investigation for the killer and what follows raises more questions than answers.The book is narrated from alternating points of view and takes place (mostly) in Dubai and New York.
I found the book intriguing, interesting, and character-driven.The main character engages in self-destructive behavior and frequent alcohol binges.
She reminded me a little bit of the main character of The Woman in the Window but with different motivations.
If you like slower-paced reads then this book is for you.Overall I enjoyed it and recommend it to readers of thrillers, mysteries, and contemporary fiction.
But like her dad, she’s a drunk.
A blackout, sleep with anyone, kind of drunk.
For some reason, I felt very detached while reading this.
I didn’t feel any connection with Cassie and found it difficult to even feel sympathy for her.
She makes one dumb decision after another.
She was so damn dumb I would have shaken her if I’d been in the room with her.
The one I felt sorry for was her lawyer.
“I’m not sure it’s possible to shame you, Cassie.”  Cassie’s story is juxtaposed with Miranda’s chapters.
Miranda was also there that night, drinking with Cassie and the victim.
Regular readers of Chris Bohjalian have learned by now that you never know what you're going to get when you open one of his novels.
Because some of the enjoyment of Bohjalian comes with the surprise factor, I won't go into heavy detail about The Flight Attendant except to say that this book is more about the female lead character: Cassie than it is the overall plot line.
The Flight Attendant is full of mystery, murder, sex, culture, and one hell of an unreliable narrator.
There's still time.Thank you to the following for permitting me access to an advance reader's copy (ARC) of The Flight Attendant.
And she is in the wrong place at the wrong time.Brace for Impact.Cassie, a flight attendant, has just discovered that her Russian hedge fund date from row 2C is lying in a pool of his blood.
But also Meghan, another attendant, who remembers Cassie's flirtation with Alex during the flight.The Flight Attendant has a suspenseful and intricate plot.
Told in alternating points of view, Cassie, and Elena (Miranda) both tell their sides after the scene which makes the narrative intriguing.
The Flight Attendant is a great story that engaged the reader on many levels.
As per her usual M.O., Cassie ends up having dinner with him, and drinking too much and she ends up in bed with him.
What happens next however is a first for Cassie: when she wakes up with him the next morning - she discovers blood on the pillow near her head and when she looks over at him she discovers that his neck has been slashed.
she drinks herself into a stupor and she lies.
I liked Cassie a lot, flaws and all.
Just a few notes on this book. Book was a struggle at times to get through, it felt forced for length. It’s main character, Cassie, is someone that I found annoying and not likeable. The storyline started out strong but fizzled. A lot going on at the end and it also had too much happening without enough background.
D A M N !!!!!!! SO freaking good!!!! Not at all what I expected. I was expecting a "personal struggle" melodrama about an alcoholic flight attendant and what I got was a crackerjack international espionage thriller whose main character happened to be an alcoholic flight attendant (and she is something else!). I have only read a few Bohjalian books but I didn't think something like this was in his wheelhouse.Mr. Bohjalian - MORE! MORE! MORE!!!!!!!!A 4.5 for me. Thoroughly enjoyable. (I feel sorry for my next book......)
Chris Bohjalian has done it again!Readers of his work, by now, should just come to expect a literary surprise each time they open his newest book!
What begins as a somewhat slow burning, character driven mystery soon escalates into an international espionage thriller.
Granted, Cassie, the flight attendant, is a train wreck waiting to happen.
However, despite this insanity that is her life, Cassie is not unlikeable.
This is very much Cassie's story despite a secondary voice every other chapter or so.
What a story it is, too, and one that is told as only Chris Bohjalian can do - amazingly!
Incredible opening chapter! Sadly, all went stagnant after that. Some surprises toward the end, but by then my patience had worn out and I was ready to read something else. Excellent writing, just didn't do it for me plot-wise.SIDE NOTE: What's up with this literary trend of blackout drunk females?
Well, well, well....what an ending!The Flight Attendant was a great book.
For one, I don’t live a life that takes me to all these amazing places, and two, it touches on the darker, dirty side that some of the ladies and gentleman in that profession witness or practice….in my wildest dreams of course!Cassandra Bowden is the quintessential party girl.
AND, she is a flight attendant.
One morning, she finds herself waking up next to man she met on a flight to Dubai.
The problem: She can’t remember the night!
It’s a blackout night for her.
Of course in her mind…there are all kinds of explanations.
Cassandra "Cassie" Bowden is a flight attendant and alcoholic.
She lies to the FBI, she lies to her union but tells her attorney the truth - that she is a heavy drinker who does not know how or why the man died in bed next to her.This book started out really strong for me.
Why did the killer not kill the flight attendant as well?
There is also the part of the story where we learn about the killer, why she did not kill the flight attendant initially and her hunt for her after the fact.

It was just so contrived that I decided to lower my initial 3 star rating.Cassie is a mess, she drinks way too much (a fact that the author beats us over the head with), she is becoming more and more unreliable at work and she sleeps with a different man in a different country each time her plane touches down.Elena could have been a very interesting character, but she came across as too cold and distant to allow me to feel like I got to know her.As with The Guest Room this is a page turner with an unlikable main character.
⭐⭐⭐ / 5My reviews and (maybe) some other random thoughts can also be seen at https://readingbetweenwinessite.wordp...____________________________________________________________This was my first novel by Chris Bohjalian and I have very mixed feelings about it.You could definitely tell that Bohjalian did his research for this book. For the cities, the details, the flight attendants, the laws talked about, everything. I thought The Flight Attendant was incredibly detailed, and I really enjoyed the
⭐️⭐️⭐️ / 5My reviews and (maybe) some other random thoughts can also be seen at https://readingbetweenwinessite.wordp...____________________________________________________________This was my first novel by Chris Bohjalian and I have very mixed feelings about it.You could definitely tell that Bohjalian did his research for this book.
I loved the multiple POVs. You got Elena and Cassie which was really nice to have those 2 viewpoints throughout the book.
Cassie was one hot mess, and I didn't feel like she learned a thing throughout the book (I really hate when that happens).
Two minor things: I felt like the book was a little repetitive at times, and caught myself thinking "haven't I read this already?" a few times.
Another addictive read from the talented Chris Bohjalian, and again, it's like none of his other books.
At first it rivaled The Girl on the Train for most outlandish female alcoholic, only this time it's the girl on the plane.Cassie seems to live a charmed jet-setting life as a flight attendant, getting her pick of international flights like Rome, Berlin, or Dubai, with NYC her home base.
This is what ultimately gets her into trouble while in Dubai, and the trouble follows her home and everywhere else she ventures.
I read it in two days time.
If you know me, you’ll know this pretty much sounds like my idea of a great time and are probably wondering WTF happened that made me read even something so directly in my wheelhouse wrong.
If you don’t think this one would work for you either, but are still interested in reading a book narrated by a drunk woman, might I suggest The Woman in the Window or even The Girl on the Train - an option that probably has people who know me going.
The premise for this book sounded very exciting, a flight attendant waking up in a hotel room in Dubai next to a viciously murdered man.
Unfortunately this book took until my Kindle location was at 70% to really get going.Cassie Bowden is a veteran flight attendant, approaching early middle age, who is unhappy with her life and the way she lives it.
All she remembers is that she attended to Alex Sokolov in first class on the flight to Dubai and then ended up in his room and that he was good to her and she liked him.
Chris Bohjalian is one of those authors I’ve been meaning to read for the longest time, I’ve heard nothing but great things about his books and was super excited that I would finally be reading one of his books, this one sounded exactly like the kind of book that I would end up loving and I had heard he was an excellent writer.
It actually took me over a week to read and that’s a super long time for me, I’m a book every day, every two days at the most reader and getting through this one felt like work, never a great sign.
But I’m wondering if his style is always this way, do his books follow a similar pattern?
