https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8507286-the-shunned-house
As such, it is not only a pleasure to read but also an important work for anyone who is interested in the development of H.P. Lovecraft the writer.It was written during the early period of his marriage, when Lovecraft and his wife were living in Brooklyn and he had already become uneasy--but not fearful, as he would later become in Red Hook--of the dark faces and diverse cultures found near the great city of New York.
It seems he may have been homesick for Rhode Island too, for--although the plot of this tale was first inspired by another house in Elizabeth, New Jersey--he chose to locate it in a house (once lived in by his aunt) located in the familiar streets of Providence.
Welcome to the Shunned House!  GHOSTBUSTERS - NEW ENGLAND STYLE 135 Benefit Street. Providence, Rhode Island. It’s a real house that you can find even nowdays (2017) at the said address, and it’s the scenario of this really spooky tale, that H.P. Lovecraft knew well since his aunt lived there for a while. However, while he chose this real house for the scenario, it was another real house at Elizabeth, New Jersey, the inspiration for the narrative.A man and his uncle, are doing a paranormal rese
Welcome to the Shunned House!
GHOSTBUSTERS - NEW ENGLAND STYLE
It’s a real house that you can find even nowdays (2017) at the said address, and it’s the scenario of this really spooky tale, that H.P. Lovecraft knew well since his aunt lived there for a while.
However, while he chose this real house for the scenario, it was another real house at Elizabeth, New Jersey, the inspiration for the narrative.A man and his uncle, are doing a paranormal research of a house with a very long history of unexplained deaths and illness for the unlucky inhabitants of that house.
This novelette was written by the young H.P. Lovecraft around the same time as The Rats in the Walls (1924), and published, likewise, in an issue of Weird Tales.
But one distinctive technique, borrowed from Poe, which Lovecraft will further develop in subsequent tales, is the deft mixing of real history with completely made up pieces of fiction, which confers his stories a disturbing sense of verisimilitude.
Not Lovecraft's best and probably mostly of interest to fans only, but still, this early work contains some nuggets of the delicious fright-writing he would become known for.
By the end of The Shunned House I was riveted to the narrative.
Lovecraft rewards those with the patience to stick with the first two-thirds of this novella with a gloriously grotesque description of a wonderfully heinous creature.
The writing remains distant and analytical, but by now we're in it to win it with our hero and hope for the best.
After all, so very many people have succumbed to the shunned house, might he be one, too?

The Shunned House is a story of centuries old curse hanging over the house at 135 Benefit Street, Providence. Something horrible happened in the late 1600s and since then no child has ever been born in the house. The narrator tells a story of his childhood curiosity that later became almost an obsession. He researched the history of the house and even though he wasn't a superstitious man, he came to believe that there are certain things in this world that can't be easily explained.

Daemons and houses a concoction for a tale of terror from thee master Lovecraft. "We boys used to overrun the place, and I can still recall my youthful terror not only at the morbid strangeness of sinister vegetation, but at the eldritch atmosphere and odour of the dilapidated house, whose unlocked front door was often entered in quest of shudders. The small-paned windows were largely broken, and a nameless air of desolation hung round the precarious panelling, shaky interior shutters, peeling w
Wikipedia had this on his inspiration in writing this.The Shunned House of the title is based on an actual house in Providence, Rhode Island, built around 1763 and still standing at 135 Benefit Street; Lovecraft was familiar with the house because his aunt, Lillian Clark, lived there in 1919-20 as a companion to Mrs. H.
C. Babbit.But it was another house in Elizabeth, New Jersey that actually provoked Lovecraft to write the story.
It reminded me of the Babbit House in Benefit Street....
In other words, exactly the kind of house HP Lovecraft would write about.But this isn't Lovecraft at his best.
This goes on for most of the book until the narrator goes to spend the night in the house and sees yet more ambiguous shapes and colours that of course drives him mad.I realise Lovecraft isn't read for his writing style but it really grated on me in this book, mostly because there's usually something to latch on to to distract me from the overly verbose sentences.
If you are looking for a book to read this October, The Shunned House is an excellent choice.
I could read spooky house stories all day, every day, but there were some great stand out moments that will stick with me.If you love literary horror and you haven't read this yet, put The Shunned House on your list.
At 48 pages, it also makes a great atmospheric read for those who are just looking to up their spookiness level around Halloween.
Entrambi i racconti si leggono in un fiato: sono ben scritti, con un linguaggio netto, preciso, ricercato, avvincente, affabulante, come avvincente è la suspense delle storie che si dipanano; peccato il finale, un po' banalotto, per il primo racconto (La casa stregata), mentre il secondo (L'orrore di Red Hook)è a dir poco pirotecnico per le trovate etniche (i meticci, i curdi etc.)anche se non incolla alla sedia.
The Shunned House by H.P. Lovecraft is a novella about an actual house in Providence, Rhode Island but Lovecraft's inspiration to write the story came from another house in Elizabeth, New Jersey.
They've been fascinated with this house because so many strange things have occurred there over the years and so many people have died or became sick after staying there.
In hopes of getting to the root of the evil, they both stay overnight in the house with dire consequences...So this story was ok.
It took me a little while to get into it and use to the old style of writing.
I spent the majority of this story thinking "It's totally mold. They need to clean this house out." As with most (all?) of his stories, HP Lovecraft spends so much time trying to shove your face in creepiness that there isn't really much story to speak of underneath the copious descriptions of grim grime. It's 90% build-up, 10% dissatisfying reveal and 100% description.
A classic Lovecraft tale with a little paranormal investigation. Fun stuff.
These 48 pages felt like 480.
Non sono un’estimatrice del genere, e questo potrebbe obiettivamente essere un handicap, ma personalmente trovo che, almeno qui, manchi completamente la tensione narrativa, il senso di aspettativa, il crescendo emotivo, quell’indefinito senso di angoscia che ha, forse, radici nel subconscio di tutti noi e che può, certamente, nascere anche da fatti banali, ma deve essere sorretto da una narrazione abile, altrimenti diventa solo molto noioso.
C’è un abisso tra i due autori in quanto ad abilità narrativa, a mio modesto avviso.Naturalmente, un solo libro è troppo poco per dare un giudizio generale.
Può benissimo essere che Lovecraft sia stato più efficace in altre opere, che io non conosco.
I've just reread it, and was surprised how good I thought it was. Better than I remembered. sure, not HPL's best by a long shot but not bad either. HPL takes his time building atmosphere, blending everything with his antiquatianism, which is quite cool. And it certainly is an unusual vampire story... of sorts;-)
The narrator and his uncle become intrigued with the house because they are starting to realize a pattern of deaths associated with the house.
Though the story is quite slow to start, one realizes that our narrator is almost afraid to remember what happened with the 'shunned house'.
But reading how the narrator and his uncle investigated all of the former owners and figured out what was done to cause such a black cloud to hang over the house, especially the basement was really great.
Maybe because you just want the narrator to tell the story to you straight.
It was all eyes—wolfish and mocking—and the rugose insect-like head dissolved at the top to a thin stream of mist which curled putridly about and finally vanished up the chimney." On 135 Benefit St., Providence, Rhode Island, lies the actual ‘shunned house’ where the haunting horrors of this early Lovecraft novelette unfold.
All readers, though, should happily glug down the yucky denouement, featuring *SPOILER* a monstrous gelatinous elbow, with indecorous relish.“The Shunned House” was to have been Lovecraft’s first printed book.
This was my first Lovecraft read and I thoroughly enjoyed it.I know, starting with a short story is not the place to start – yet it is what I managed to get my hands on.
It was not a perfectly crafted horror story – there was not enough suspense for that, there were nowhere near the shocks you find with the lengthy novels – but it hit home.
For a short story of horror to keep me engrossed throughout is a sure sign that I need to read more.Lovecraft, I’m coming your way.

Listened to a Librivox recording of this Lovecraft tale which was actually inspired by a house in Providence, Rhode Island built around the 1700's... In the tale the protagonist and his uncle Dr. Whipple decide to investigate this old house in which it has been reported over time that the occupants have either become sick or died... After a terrific turn of events the horror is eventually realised...
Bella lettura ma "La casa stregata" non mi ha preso quanto "l'orrore a Red Hook" (altro racconto presente nella raccolta) che mi è piaciuto di più e in alcuni punti anche inquietato. Comunque un classico da leggere.
The style is very impressive, the story is good too. Could have been more scary if the fiend was burgundy or scarlet rather than yellow.
I read this delightfully creepy story using Serial Reader.
The setting, language, and tone of The Shunned House set the reader up for a scare that is a chilling slow burn.
Lovecraft is a master at horror for a reason - each moment is fraught with potential for terror, which keeps the reader on the edge and unable to relax.
If a reader is expecting in your face scares, then a recalibration of what is scary may be necessary to get the most out of Lovecraft.
I enjoy allowing myself to sink into the the Lovecraftian universe and slowly be scared silly.
I usually like Lovecraft, but this story is a bit predictable, or actually very predictable and it quickly lost my interest.
Not my favorite Lovecraft. A bit too short and with bumpy pacing, but it was still the type of horror I love.
The dank unhealthy house meant that people died there in numbers or maybe it was the standard of the well water.
Initially seven deaths in five years and never a child born alive in 150 years.Or maybe, as is always the case in these kinds of stories, the servants know but nobody bothers to ask them.
]The writer inherits his uncles’ notes on the house and his fascination for it.The servants complain of vampires; a lot of the deaths are due to anaemia and blood loss, and victims rail and screech in French – a language they do not know.
Ore 1:40 : ho finito il libro da pochi minuti dopo averlo letto tutto d'un fiato. Spero di riuscire a dormire.---♦   alla fine ce ne ho messo di tempo per addormentarmi; ma per il caldo..  ---Tornato da una rilassante settimana tutto divertimento a Rimini, mi sono subito buttato di nuovo nella lettura dei libri "da leggere", la cui lista aumenta ogni giorno di più!Avevo già letto un capitolo de "La Casa Stregata" ed ho quindi optato per leggere lo stesso e eventualmente finirlo dato il numero di
---Tornato da una rilassante settimana tutto divertimento a Rimini, mi sono subito buttato di nuovo nella lettura dei libri "da leggere", la cui lista aumenta ogni giorno di più!Avevo già letto un capitolo de "La Casa Stregata" ed ho quindi optato per leggere lo stesso e eventualmente finirlo dato il numero di pagine non proibitivo.L'edizione della Newton Compton, inserita nella collana LIVE099, si compone di due racconti.
che, a mio parere, è ancora più terrificante e coinvolgente de La casa stregata.
Egli si troverà faccia a faccia con un'orrenda verità che circonda un piccolo paese.Entrambi i racconti sono favolosi e non vedo l'ora di leggere altro di Lovecraft che, tra l'altro, è nato il mio stesso giorno.
Unfortunately, this story suffers from a significant plot issue.
So when he and his uncle resolve to investigate, they show up at 9 am with shovels to dig in this spot, right?
Well, no, since if they did, the story would be over much more quickly.
Instead, they resolve to spend the night in the house, and horrible things happen: only then does the digging finally uncover the explanation (such as it is).
