https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16793.Stardust
In slavery, in misery, in poverty, in isolation, a person can escape into the brighter day of dreams, or the unknown future, or the magic of Faerie.And in a world where the demons in the closet are thrust into a florescent laboratory, where telescopes and cameras record the crags and terrain of places where once there were dragons, where we identify which crannies of the human mind are responsible for fear, or love, or sorrow, and even plot out their corresponding hormonal compositions for manipulation and control...
perhaps in such a world we must desperately escape into the unexplorable reaches of Faerie.
Inevitably I was reading this against the movie, and I'm here to say that I think the movie and the book are both brilliant. So ha!I love the movie. It's absolutely wonderful. And I loved the book. .. But they are quite different. The novel definitely feels more adult. Not because it has "adult themes" just in the overall tone and language. The movie is definitely more "family friendly." The movie is wittier and funnier and sillier and faster paced, and the book is slower and more whimsical and felt more grounded in reality (even though it's surrounded in magic.)
No, thank you.Still, it's not so much the sex & violence that disturbed me (although if I liked that kind of thing I wouldn't be reading fantasy); it was that they were included in a tale lauded for its childlike adventure and whimsy.
Lest you think I am allowing several instances of violence and sex to ruin my opinion of the entire work, let me address the actual plot line and writing.
Not exactly the stuff happy endings are made of.UPDATE: I finally saw the movie, and let me say how grateful I am that it is NOTHING like the book!
The more Gaiman I read, the more I understand why people are so caught up in the magic he wields.
His style is present from the very first chapter when a young man falls madly in lust with a Faerie girl and his passion results in the birth of Tristran Thorn.
But, as these things go, it doesn't turn out to be a simple task and, if Tristran even makes it back alive, he is certain to be a very different man to the one who left.However, as myself and others have done, it is very easy to feel the need to compare Gaiman's books to popular children's classics (I started the first paragraph by doing so) but Stardust is not a children's book.
(B+) 77% | GoodNotes: The ending’s flat and it doesn't have a climax, but it’s still a great homage to the tradition of dark, folkloric fairy tales.
And I loved the movie.
It's a very very good book, and I love how Neil Gaiman tried (and succeeding at) creating a dark fairytale.
It shows us that fairytales aren't all glitter and roses, and good vs.
evil, with happy endings for all the good guys.
The problem is that having watched the movie I wanted a fairytale.
All the things I loved the best about the movie, weren't in the book (and it's usually the other way around, I was surprised too).
The movie was such a feel-good one and the book?
That is all.
He's a gifted writer and I keep thinking that I ought to love everything he writes, but so far his books have struck me either as: • so bizarre and off-putting that I couldn't get into it <---American Gods,• hauntingly beautiful but kind of confusing <---The Ocean at the End of the Lane, or• having a marvelous setting but being a little on the predictable side <---Neverwhere.Stardust falls into the third category.
Nearly eighteen years after that, Tristran (who has no idea of his origin) falls in love with a lovely but standoffish young girl named Victoria.
It turns out that in Faerie stars are beautiful and somewhat sparkly young women.
“You have to believe.
Otherwise, it will never happen.”My first Neil Gaiman book was a disappointment.
I didn't like this very much.
It wasn't a bad book exactly, but it was also far from being a good one.
For me, this is one highly overrated novel and I don't get what the fuss is all about.
I still haven't watched the movie but I feel like this could be one of those rare cases when the screen adaption is better than the original.The only other Gaiman book that I've read until today was Coraline, the graphic novel.
I can’t blame Tristan for his natural puppyish passions, he is only seventeen after all, but I can hate him for it nonetheless; he is completely unbearable at the beginning as his love-sick foolishness knows no bounds.
And to ignorant to be scared, too young to be awed, Tristan Thorn passed beyond the fields we know.
I have missed them- although Tristan had barely given his parents a second thought on his journeying’s- then we shall pay a visit to Victoria Forester.”He just doesn’t see what’s in front of his face till the very end, and then it’s only when his first choice rejects him.
There was once a young man who wished to gain his Heart’s Desire. This is a charming journey of self-discovery by a character who has a dual nature, human and fairy. He makes it work, with the assistance of sundry others. Beginning his journey seeking his heart’s desire, he finds by the time he returns home that what he truly values has changed. The characters are…well..fairy tale characters and we should not be looking for great depth here. There is darkness, evil, and real risk for our nicer
There was once a young man who wished to gain his Heart’s Desire.
This is a charming journey of self-discovery by a character who has a dual nature, human and fairy.
He makes it work, with the assistance of sundry others.
Beginning his journey seeking his heart’s desire, he finds by the time he returns home that what he truly values has changed.
The characters are…well..fairy tale characters and we should not be looking for great depth here.
This is a charming fairy tale, written in clear, and pretty language, with many creative elements.
*3.5 of 5 shooting stars* ‘‘For a kiss, and the pledge of your hand,’’ said Tristran, grandiloquently, ‘‘I would bring you that fallen star.’’ He shivered. His coat was thin, and it was obvious that he would not get the kiss, which he found puzzling. The main heroes of the penny dreadfuls and shilling novels never had these problems getting kissed. ‘‘Go on, then,’’ said Victoria. ‘‘And if you do, I will.’’ ‘‘What?’’ said Tristran. ‘‘If you bring me that star,’’ said Victoria, ‘‘The one that just
‘‘For a kiss, and the pledge of your hand,’’ said Tristran, grandiloquently, ‘‘I would bring you that fallen star.’’ He shivered.
I really thought her personality to be a good contrast with Tristran’s.The three witches though were my favorite – in the book and movie.
Witches – and warlocks/wizards – have always been my favorite paranormal/surpernatural/fantasy creatures in the entire book world.The pacing was neither slow nor fast.
I guess the main problem was that it was predictable and underdeveloped, in my opinion, since there aren’t many dialogs and so not many chances for them to get to know each other better.
The world-building, the characters, the story - all absolutely amazing! He wondered how it could have taken him so long to realize he cared for her, and he told her so, and she called him an idiot, and he declared that it was the finest thing that ever a man had been called.   There's the wonder, there's the intrigue, there's the titch of magic interspersed with ethereal. Neil Gaiman has finally caught me on a story.We have Tristian, a product of his father's wandering gaze and a fairy lass, who
Neil Gaiman has finally caught me on a story.We have Tristian, a product of his father's wandering gaze and a fairy lass, who in a fit of youthful passion, makes an improbable promise the hottest girl in the village.
And thus begins his harrowing journey through the gap in the Wall and into the land of fairy to find an unwitting and unwilling star.This story read like an ancient tale - handed down from generation to generation.
The audiobook narrator (Neil Gaiman, himself) did an excellent job...though if push came to shove, I'd pick the illustrated edition.
There's more to this Adult Fairy Tale than meets the eye. This beloved new classic is a tight little package for the consideration of any jaded or unbelieving adult out there. A fast read, it is pleasurable, readable, crazy with the fusing of real "drama" with that of a New World (or Alternate Dimension).
This isn't something I'm "good at."Anyway here is what I know:- I love Neil Gaiman- like seriously he is consistently just cranking out sh*t I like- okay I mean sure I didn't love American Gods and I didn't love Fortunately the Milk and I didn't love The Sleeper and the Spindle but do any of them even count??- sure American Gods probably definitely counts, seeing as it's his most popular book and all- but whatever because I didn't even hate any of them!
I'm more than contented.Bottom line: I'm going to keep reading Neil Gaiman books and hoping for the best!!
Unlike most book-to-film adaptations, however, I felt that the movie had more character development and more details; and, indeed, more heart and more humor.
I cannot objectively consider the merits of the book because I missed so many aspects of the movie-story as I read.
I felt the character development was lacking--as a cast of characters, he managed to assemble an interesting bunch, but no one was particularly special or deep.
The basic premise of the book and movie are the same, but significant changes in plot and character development (even the cast of characters) provide a few surprises no matter which order one choses pursue.
All questions that could have fascinating answers, but irritatingly Gaiman employs the tired old story of a man being hopelessly in love with the most conventionally beautiful woman he knows entirely because of her beauty.
(Yes, it seems the plot is derived from the world's worst pickup line.) So surely our hero, who is by all accounts a nice young man, and who is after all so very in love with his girl back home who doesn't want anything to do with him (poor Tristran!
Nor do I actually know what a Dalek is and what it does.To add to my nefarious ways, I'm also not a Gaiman fan (though not for lack of trying!) Clearly, whilst I am a scifi fan - I'm not the RIGHT kind of scifi fan!It's rather like two Star Trek fans meeting on the street:"So which episode of Enterprise is your favourite?" The first Trekker asks the second."Oh, I only like Voyager and Deep Space Nine!" The second Trekker quickly replies."I challenge you to Mortal Kombat!" screams the first Trekker, whipping out a Bat'leth, spittle flying from his mouth as fury transforms his features into something alien and cruel.Then they slap each other around for a while before going home.One to write Spock and Kirk slash fiction and the other to masturbate to pictures of Jeri RyanI truly believe you have to be the right kind of scifi fan to enjoy Gaiman to his fullest and unfortunately, like two strangers forced to interact occasionally, we just don't quite mesh together.I really enjoyed Stardust.
You have to believe. Otherwise, it will never happen.  Man, oh man, what a story! The illustrations brought it to a whole new level. We have Tristan, half fairy thanks to his father's infidelity.   In a fit of youthful passion Tristian promises the beautiful Victoria to bring her back a star. But to do that, he has to cross  the Wall. Since he's young, dumb and full of love for his sweet, he takes off with nary a thought.And thus begins his harrowing journey.  tHe crosses the gap in the Wall a
But to do that, he has to cross  the Wall.
tHe crosses the gap in the Wall and into the land of fairy.
There's something about having pictures on nearly every page that brings this book to the next level.
Very rarely someone comes to Wall knowing what they are looking for, and these people they will sometimes allow through.
Very rarely does a quote send me looking.
After reading this story, I paid attention to stone fences around pastures and farms, hoping to find an entrance to the Wall.
You have to believe.
You have to believe.
Anyone who believes what a cat tells him deserves all he gets.
This is my second Gaiman book, and it's my favorite so far!
First, I must say Stardust is one of my favorite movies ever, so I wasn't sure about reading the book!
There were some different aspects to the book than the movie, and I really liked seeing the differences.
I still like the movie better, but Gaiman's writing is so extraordinary.
Tristran was a bit of an idiot, but he was also one in the movie, too!
But I really loved Yvaine, she is a star, and she really shines in the book!
Lol, I like what I did with that last line!
I'm new to Neil Gaiman's literature, having come from a background of mainly Science Fiction and older Fantasy novels. I'm hooked. His writing style is completely engaging, and while I wouldn't quite put him at the level of Dan Simmons or Iain Banks, he's damn close while being a lot more accessible. I'm looking forward to exploring everything else he has written, as he is now one of my "go to" authors. Do yourself a favor and read Stardust.
3.5/5I really enjoyed this book! Even if I enjoyed the movie more than the book.I love that this is an adult fairytale & I love the comedy aspects of it, but part of it felt like a not totally complete story, whereas the movie really did bring things around.Regardless, I LOVE Neil Gaiman's writing style and storytelling. He truly is a master story teller! The audiobook was narrated by him and it made the story that much better because of it.
By 4AM, October 3rd, I learned that not only it is possible, but also that Neil Gaiman is a talented, gifted writer with gorgeous imagination and invaluable, rare talent for recreating the noblest thing: magic.I think that the tale is really worth discovering for yourself, so I'll refrain from discussing the plot.
Gaiman mixes humor with seriousness, realism with fantasy, displaying skill rarely encountered that deserves to be admired and, quite simply, envied.
The descriptions are delicate and ethereal, and scenes are written in vivid detail - the tension at times is almost palpable."Stardust" is a sublime, intriguing and simply beautiful fairy tale, full of compelling characters that the reader is sure to find himself caring strongly for, taking a journey most unique and exciting.
Everything about this one just worked for me. I loved it. The characters, the writing style, the plot, the romance, the magic. It was brilliant. This edition had a forward explaining that it was written as a fairy tale for adults that would have live in the 1920's, and it hit the mark so well. One of my favorite Gaiman books so far that I've read.
Μια πανέμορφη ιστορία αγάπης από τον μετρ των παραμυθιών κι ένα κρυφοκοίταγμα στο υπερκόσμιο σύμπαν πέρα από το Τείχος, όπου πληγωμένα πεφταστέρια σταλάζουν αστερόσκονη, βασίλεια αναζητούν τους αυριανούς ηγήτορές τους και μάγισσες μονομαχούν με μονόκερους. Γ(ο)ητε(υ)μένος.
I will never understand how this book is so highly rated.
I read this after I saw the film because I thought, "hey, I'd love to see that explored more and see what parts they left out because that film was great!"Let me tell you, that wasn't what happened.
How they got that film from this book I will never know.
All the interesting characters you meet in the film are almost an afterthought in the book, there and gone in a flash.
I am so disappointed by this book.
It's been almost ten years since I read it and I'm still not over it.
What a beautiful way to end my reading year!And that ending - THE PLOT  The stars were laid out like worlds or like ideas, uncountable as the trees in a forest or the leaves on a tree A whimsical and atmospheric story which follows the adventures of an eighteen year old, Tristran Thorn, as he ventures out into the magical world of faerie-a world which borders his own little town, Wall. And why you ask did he undertake such a journey? Well, it's very simple. He did it for love.  Stupid, blind, na
A whimsical and atmospheric story which follows the adventures of an eighteen year old, Tristran Thorn, as he ventures out into the magical world of faerie-a world which borders his own little town, Wall.
On his journey to retrieve a fallen star which his love, Victoria, demands in exchange for whatever he desires, Tristran encounters a lot of people, creatures, magical beings and objects, and a life changing truth.
This book has one of the best prose I've read this year, and I am completely blown away by the splendor of Neil Gaiman's writing.
STRIKE TWOBUT TRISTRAN LIKE I SAID IS A CONSISTENT BORN FOOL.
Every lover is, in his heart, a madman, and, in his head, a minstrel. ¡Qué libro! El quinto que leo de Gaiman y, como siempre, me deslumbró con su habilidad para mezclar una atmósfera oscura con una infantil y, hasta cierto punto, tierna. El universo de realidades que crea es de lo mejor que leo en el género. Al principio se me hizo un poco pesado y, aunque me duela decirlo, aburrido, pero conforme iba avanzando, me atrapaba más y más. También no saber bien qué era lo que sucedía fue una manera
El quinto que leo de Gaiman y, como siempre, me deslumbró con su habilidad para mezclar una atmósfera oscura con una infantil y, hasta cierto punto, tierna.
No niego que me gustaron mucho, no obstante, eso hizo que haya una cierta distancia entre el libro y yo, puesto que esas coincidencias me recordaban constantemente al hombre detrás de la historia, que quiso que todo fuera así para que esta pueda avanzar.
Es forzada, sin embargo, habiendo leído las improbables eventualidades ya mencionadas, tomé como natural esa mano divina del escritor para que ese cierre pueda darse.
Gaiman lo ha vuelto a hacer. Esta historia es todo lo que podría pedirle a un cuento de hadas.
Sin embargo, les cuento que este libro me hizo verdaderamente feliz, y creo que no había estado con una sonrisa así de boba desde hacía mucho tiempo.
"Stardust" era la película con la que se dormía para soñar con príncipes, brujas y aventuras.Dicho esto, es evidente que le tengo mucho apego, sobre todo por ser parte esencial de esa pequeña etapa llamada infancia, por estar ahí para mi de una forma que nadie más pudo estarlo, y por, vaya, introducirme inconscientemente a un mundo al que se me educó para ser mal visto pero siempre me negué a hacerlo.Como bien dije, crecí con la película.
