https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/88077.The_Magic_Mountain
We join the horizontals and lie down on the hammocks and wrap ourselves with white blankets and the spectacle begins.The Polka of the Seven Steps.The Polka begins and fourteen of those figures in the hammocks get up and form seven couples and get ready for their dance.
As they dance we see the sun streaming in with white light and it is warm, but when it touches the dark it freezes.
There is a great deal of push and pull in this dance, but Humanism remains unperturbed.Suddenly a great deal more light comes in and the next couple are announced: Apollo & Dionysus.

The book description refers to The Magic Mountain as a dizzingly rich novel of ideas and that's exactly what it is.
It may look like this book has a very serious disposition, but really there is plenty of humor and irony in the way Mann writes.You may have seen some other reviewers mentioning the transcendent chapter Snow.
Danse Macabre, literally meaning Dance of Death, looks into that very abyss.Thomas Mann said that The Magic Mountain should be read twice.
The extent to which the characters here can interact with the ‘real’ world is something they have to discover themselves through the book’s seven-hundred-plus pages.The plot can be disposed of in a single statement: that a young engineer called Hans Castorp takes a three-week visit to see his cousin in a Swiss sanatorium and ends up staying for seven years.
There’s a brilliant moment where Hans rails against the surroundings a little too much, and the director of the sanatorium calls his bluff with a quick examination:When he was done, he said, ‘You may leave.’Hans Castorp stammered, ‘You mean…but how can that be?
Imagine being stuck in a place where all sense of time is lost in the web of inactivity, a place which enables people to lead a life devoid of any greater purpose and only focused on recuperation from a queer illness, a place almost hermetically sealed and self-controlled, successfully keeping the repercussions of wars and diplomatic feuds between nations at bay.
The situations and backdrops are mere contrivances specifically begotten to tout ideas on life and death.
Maybe a re-read some time years later on in life will restore the elusive star.
Thomas Mann, The Magic Mountain: "An ordinary young man was on his way from his hometown Hamburg to Davos-Platz in the canton of Graubünden.
Mann insists that he is a young man (although he will act like an old man in many ways) and ordinary (and we will see that this was probably a fatal flaw in being too ordinary).
I intentionally left the second phrase about the fact that it was summer time and yet he was heading to a place (Davos) that folks usually frequent in the wintertime.
706. Der Zauberberg = The Magic Mountain, Thomas MannThe Magic Mountain (German: Der Zauberberg) is a novel by Thomas Mann, first published in November 1924. It is widely considered to be one of the most influential works of 20th century German literature. کوه جادو - توماس مان (نگاه) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهاردهم ماه می سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: کوه جادو؛ نویسنده: توماس مان؛ مترجم: حسن نکوروح؛ در دو جلد؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نگاه، 1368؛ در 1016 ص؛ چاپ بعدی 1388؛ شابک: 9789643514358؛ موضوع: داس
Der Zauberberg = The Magic Mountain, Thomas MannThe Magic Mountain (German: Der Zauberberg) is a novel by Thomas Mann, first published in November 1924.
It is widely considered to be one of the most influential works of 20th century German literature.
کوه جادو - توماس مان (نگاه) ادبیات؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز چهاردهم ماه می سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: کوه جادو؛ نویسنده: توماس مان؛ مترجم: حسن نکوروح؛ در دو جلد؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، نگاه، 1368؛ در 1016 ص؛ چاپ بعدی 1388؛ شابک: 9789643514358؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان آلمانی - سده 20 مبا خواندن «كوه جادو»، خوانشگر کمی هم به رمان «مرگ در ونيز» نویسنده، یادش بخیر باد میگوید.
Tracey Emin's "Unmade Bed" and Thomas Mann's "The Magic Mountain" will just have to live in the pile of junk that I fail to understand.I realise that I am in the minority, as most reviewers and professors of literature believe this to be a masterpiece, and probably the best book to come out of Germany in the twentieth century.
It may also explain why English literature was the only `O' Level that I failed, despite having been a prolific reader all of my life.
With The Magic Mountain, I found that I had been reading a few pages at a time for well over a month, and had only waded through 170.
While we might be able to infer Mann’s preference, it's not always clear, and it's left to us to draw our own conclusions.This reinforces the reputation of the novel as one of the great works of literature, not only because its subject matter is the rival ideas upon which civilization is founded, but because it lets us be the judge.As with Socrates, the goal is to make us think methodically about the issues, rather than to encourage us to approach them with inflexible preconceptions or to depart captive to rigid dogma.In Which the Hero is Heightened and Enhanced"TMM" is set in a sanatorium on a Swiss mountain, where patients suffering from tuberculosis go to receive treatment and a cure.To do so, they must leave the flatlands of Germany and elsewhere and reside "up here" in a rarefied, pure, idealized atmosphere and world.
Realmente destacable.Volviendo a la cuestión de la enfermedad y la muerte, el cual es harto desarrollado en el libro, creo que para que ellos tengan efecto fue necesario incluir algo que tal vez algunos lectores pasa por alto: leyendo las distintas situaciones noto que la gran mayoría de los enfermos del sanatorio son presa de una hipocondría galopante y lo que es peor, eso es sustentado y alimentado por los mismos doctores, Behrens que es el médico principal y su ayudante, el doctor Krokovski.
To read The Magic Mountain is to be wholly immersed in Hans Castorp’s little world, to really take part as Hans and his companions grapple with mankind’s dichotomies: life vs death, action vs intellect, reason vs emotion, naturalism vs mysticism, East vs West, god vs man, and, perhaps above all, love, that singular epitomic contradiction, that wonderful celebration of life, that raison d'être, which capriciously wields the power both to exult and to desolate.The book’s characters - the wild and charismatic Pieter Peeperkorn, the erudite Herr Settembrini and Naphta (who engage in holy battle for the protagonist’s soul), the enchanting Clavdia, the dutiful Joachim, even the purportedly unremarkable and malleable Hans Castorp himself – all these characters are revealed to be at once genuine and intimately personable yet also representative of external unseen forces that move through the world.
If you give this book a chance, and some long quiet hours with your full attention, you will be in the midst of incredible richness.Wise, erudite, deeply engaged but titanically remote, grand, magisterial, ironic, cosmopolitan, comic in a sly gently mocking way.They don't write 'em like this anymore.
the title is onomatpoeic.
The book itself is mountainous....some of the deepest philosophical prophecy on what the 20th Century was, and would become.
You really gotta be a bit older, wiser, more patient and more ironically inquiring to get the full effect here.This is one for the ages.
Those who live are dying a little, and on this mountain one lives very slowly.
However, life goes on.Hans Castorp knows or thinks about knowing love.
As if to say that those who live in the conditions in which we all live life have no right to love.
Hans Castorp suddenly matures - that is, we say that time did not exist there, but it is so slowly that the transformations happen in people who, when they see, are already others.
It is not just Hans Castorp that grows throughout the novel.
However, Castorp, although ein Sorgenkind des Lebens, one of life’s problem children, is never at a complete loss and, without any operatic drama, he subtly vanquishes the toreador.Music is therefore a powerful trigger for change in Castorp’s life but, as is the case in Proust, it is only one of a series of cathartic mechanisms: a simple nosebleed propels Castorp back in time to a significant moment in his childhood; the experience of being lost in a snow storm on the mountain awakens new levels of consciousness within him; dreams play a role too, as do images, in particular the x-ray image of his own body which provides a eureka moment in terms of his self discovery, his ‘Bildung’.Hans follows many avenues of study in his quest to understand himself, one of them being the lectures given every week in the sanatorium by Dr Krokowski on the subject of love as a force conducive to illness.
The question must be posed: would Hans have ever returned to the world outside of institutional walls, had the War never occurred?
There's a question for the ages, if ever there was one.And to tie in to the other wonderful side to the coin: of course the book can't detail absolutely everything worth passing down, but it offers much food for thought, thereby giving the tools required to take on the questions it leaves open-ended in its wake.
Either he goes along, continuing to 'play king' with his trains of thought honed inside the 'Magic Mountain', or all his questions are answered in regards to death and the end of all things.
One last thing: books like these are why I read as much as I do.
Δεν είναι αυτό, στο οποίο επιζητάς την πλοκή, αλλά ανήκει στην κατηγορία των φιλοσοφικών, δηλαδή την αγαπημένη μου.
Η αλήθεια είναι πως βιάστηκα στην ανάγνωσή του και αυτό το διαπίστωσα μόλις στις πρώτες σελίδες του δεύτερου, γι’ αυτό επέστρεψα διαβάζοντας ξανά ορισμένα αποσπάσματα.
Όλη η ουσία του βιβλίου είναι η μεταβολή του ανθρώπινου χαρακτήρα σε συνάρτηση με το χρόνο και σε ένα εντελώς διαφορετικό περιβάλλον.Η ιδιομορφία του νέου περιβάλλοντος, αποτελεί έναν παράγοντα αποξένωσης και ανεξαρτησίας, ειδικά για την εποχή που γράφτηκε το έργο (1912-1924).
Μια απαίτηση που δεν χρειάζεται βέβαια να ικανοποιηθεί, αν κάποιος έχει ήδη βαρεθεί με την πρώτη ανάγνωση.
Content-wise, every page seems infused with intellectual talk -- it's explicitly hyper-thematic, a novel of ideas in which the major conflicts are theoretical, a novel that climaxes with a confounding blizzard of argument between opposing intellectuals ("Operationes Spirtuales," p 432-460) followed by a sublime chapter ("Snow," p 460-489) in which the main dude Hans sets out for some solo skiing and gets lost in an actual blizzard of wind-driven snow that gives way to abstractions and hallucinations, like how conflicting theories about Progress or Spirit or the necessity of terror or humaneness are manifested in reality -- first, escalating into real physical conflict between the two intellectual adversaries (the humanist Settembrini and the protofascist Naphta) and then later on real physical conflict among nations driven to war by ideas: "What?
The chapters  “Snow”  and  “Fullness of Harmony” are clear examples of Mann’s genius in shrouding the human spirit with the beauty of art.Apart from paying tribute to art as a form of the purest embodiment of the complexities of humankind,  “The Magic Mountain”  arises as a powerful metaphor that serves Mann to draw a masterful portrait of the archetypes of the bourgeois class and the aristocracy of the nineteenth century, of their ideals, morals and values that will commingle with the social and political tensions that would eventually make of the forthcoming century a devastating and turbulent episode in the world history.The reader is painfully slowly introduced to these higher reflections through the portrayal of the life in a tuberculosis sanatorium placed at the top of a mountain in Davos where the young engineer Hans Castorp, model of the refined and educated man of the nineteenth century, visits his cousin Joachim Ziemssen for seven days.
A tua história chegou ao fim.”Vou guardar Hans Castorp na minha memória literária com muito carinho.
Vou guardá-lo ao lado de outras personagens marcantes que me são tão caras como velhos amigos de carne e osso.Apesar do tamanho pouco prático, andei com este tijolo atrás por todo o lado (sim, olharam-me de lado com ar incrédulo!), e num livro que fala sobre o Tempo; o Tempo que se dilui, o Tempo que passa por nós sem darmos por ele, o Tempo que nos leva inevitavelmente ao Fim e à Morte, engoli oitocentas páginas que parecem não ter história.
So, in one of the finest and most subtle ironic twists I've read, ever, Hans's "salvation" from suspended animation at the Berghof comes by way, not of his healing, or his education by learned minds, or his experience in love and death and illness (all of which make up his life-but-not-life existence) but by an external inescapable catastrophe.
But of course, what we readers suspect is that it is most likely not life, but death which has chosen Hans, which has swept him off his mountain top and into its arms.
Hans Castorp also waits, lingers, decides not to decide, dallies with whether it is better to be or not to be, listens to his attendant spirits, weighs skulls in the palm of his hand while time pulses around him on great heights.
The magic mountain symbolizes a community detached from the flatland, the normal values, duties, history, time, indulging in its physical closeness to and spiritual longing for sickness and death.
Hans Castorp finally returns to the flatland, to redeem respect for duty/tradition/mediocrity, and to eventually die in the Great War, perish in the universal feast of death with the same consciousness and harmony that Joachim had.
Eight years later he finished Magic Mountain, which proves that time is relative by making the experience of reading it last fucking forever.Here is the "plot": Young Hans Castorp has found that he doesn't enjoy having a job, or anything else about life, so when he ambles up a mountain to visit his consumptive cousin Joachim who does nothing but sit around wrapped in a blanket all day, he decides to stay.
Anyway, the point is that Thomas Mann was interesting but his book isn't.
"There is nothing 'actual' about time," says Hans Castorp.
Finally read this, after several failed attempts with a truly awful translation (Lowe-Porter's). I've missed out on a truly extraordinary novel for too long. The dazzling descriptions and the intricate and fiery conversations of the characters are truly amazing. This book is a labyrinth of ideas and thoughts and definitely merits further study.
Bunlar kitapla ilgili heyecanlandığım ayrıntılar olmasına rağmen, uzun okuma maratonundan sonra yazmak adına şevke sahip değilim.Romanları kafamda tasnifleyip değerlendirirken, ‘büyük, başyapıt’ olarak addedilenleri kendi içlerinde değerlendiririm.
Fakat ‘Büyülü Dağ’ bana göre Thomas Mann’ın ne kadar büyük bir yazar olduğunu ispat etme çabasıyla kaleme alınmış.
Fakat anlatılanların heterojenliği o kadar çiğ ve göze batıyor ki; ancak bunu başlı başına bir stil olarak ele alırsam ayakta alkışlayabilirim.
Haliyle içerikle ve tekniğiyle kurduğum ilişki bile beni çok düzlüğe götürmedi, roman boyunca hep yatay pozisyon da kaldım.
O kadar çok şey var ki romanla ilgili konuşulabilecek, yazılabilecek… Ama içimde buna dair bir istek yok en başta da söylediğim gibi.
Published in 1924 and winning the Nobel Prize for literature in 1929, The Magic Mountain should reside on your shelf next to The Brothers Karamazov, The Persian Letters, The Sorrows of Young Werther, and East of Eden.Part of why I found this novel so delightful was that I could closely relate to the ordeal of the protagonist, Hans Castorp, who as a young man finds himself unexpectedly confined to a hospital.
The patients are all receiving treatment for tuberculosis, and since most have been there for quite a long time, he finds himself in a very different culture than the "flatlands" from which he came.
Batı edebiyat tarihinde çok önemli bir yeri olduğu söylenen roman kahramanın iç yolculuğu gibi ilerlemekle birlikte aynı zamanda evrensel birçok konuyu da merkezine alıyor. Olaylar, 20 yüzyılın başlarında dünya büyük bir değişimin eşiğindeyken geçerken gelin görün ki kitap birtürlü akmıyor. Okumak zorlaşmaya başlıyor, bazen bir sabır testine dönüşüyor bazen 1 sayfa 10 sayfa gibi ilerlerken nadiren de tersi oluyor ve son bölüme geldiğimizde neden böyle olduğu gün yüzüne çıkıyor. Roman zamanı başkahramanlardan biri olarak ele alırken sanki biryandan okuyucuyu da zaman ile deneyimi üzerine düşünmeye zorluyor. Debelenerek okunan sonuna doğru aydınlanan, en sonunda kararan ama güzel demlenen önemli bir kitap.
And, just like that of Hans Castorp when he entered the Berghotel Sanatorium Schatzalp which is the stage for the events of ‘The Magic Mountain’, the temperature of today’s political world is also at an ambiguous 37.7 degrees - not quite high enough to call a fever but a little too high to call healthy as well.So in 2017 we have to ask: “Is our politics sick?” This is a difficult question to answer, but a few weeks of rest-cure might be just what our political institutions need.
Ah yes, irony! Beware of the irony that flourishes here, my good engineer.  In my freshman year of college, I took a literature course to fulfill a core curriculum requirement: Sexuality in Literature. It was a great class; we read Plato’s Symposium, Sappho’s poetry, the Song of Solomon, Sade, and Sacher-Masoch. But of all the great books we made our way through that semester, the one that most stuck with me was Mann’s collection of short fiction, which included Death in Venice.I was a negligen
So I hope my reader will excuse me if this review it a bit disorganized, a bit slipshod, as I wrestle with this novel’s hydra heads in no particular order.The premise is simple: Hans Castorp, a likable, if simpleminded, young man visits his cousin, Joachim Ziemssen, in a sanatorium for a three-week stay, and ends up staying seven years.
He almost entirely forgets about his former life as an aspiring engineer “down there” in the “flatlands”—as the residents of the Berghof call the hustling, bustling world of the healthy below.When characterizing the style of this novel, one falls naturally into paradoxes: the book is both carefully realistic and deeply allegorical, it is both poetic and prosaic, both lyrical and didactic, both ironic and earnest, both knowing and naïve.
It wasn’t that I didn’t want to, but reading a novel driven by ideas rather by plot or character has its challenges.
I say seven long years because that’s usually how they appeared to me as I worked my way through a chapter every few nights for more than two months, but to Hans Castorp those years appeared much shorter: the passage of time and how it varies according to circumstances is a central theme of the work.
If you want an intellectual challenge and don’t mind feeling some level of frustration (in my case the frustration was at least in part knowing that I’d be getting more out of the work if I knew more to start with), then it may well be worthwhile.
