https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/281235.Bunnicula
while i read this, check out a vampire list i made over here - http://www.rifflebooks.com/list/21865...OCTOBERas part of my personal reading challenges for 2017, once a month i will be revisiting a favorite book from when i was a little bitty karen and seeing if it holds up to my fond memories and determining if i can still enjoy it as an old and crotchety karen.fingers crossed.
Mix with that a solid mystery plot—why are these white vegetables appearing around the house, and why does that bunny look so downright evil?—and you have a book that will hold its own against pretty much anything you throw at it.
I know a lot of modern fantasy novels that could learn a few things from Bunnicula.So, I recommend that you give the book a read, if you haven’t already.
And, if you did read the book as a child, it might be an interesting experience to pick it up—like I did—and see how your childhood memories compare to your adult observations.
Hear me out: there is no Bunnicula. This is about the cat.His name is Chester. He has schemes and a vivid imagination, as cats do. He's steeped in Gothic literature. Here's my Gothic Drinking Game if you need a refresher, and notice how Bunnicula will get you drunk: - Nasty weather- Fainting (in our first hint that Bunnicula may not be the villain, he is usually the fainter)- Creepy noises- Scary eyes- And the most important thing: a relative turns out to be the surprise villain. Here's what we
Here's what we know: the Monroes have a new bunny, and vegetables are turning white.
The bunny has funny markings, which leads the family to name him Bunnicula.
On this evidence Chester declares the bunny a vampire.
Chester is starving a baby bunny to death because he says it's a vampire.
Anyway dogs are the least reliable of narrators, have you ever tried to let one explain what they're smelling?The poor family finally realizes Bunnicula is on the brink of death and rushes him to the vet, who prescribes carrot juice, so the poor thing is saved in the nick of time.
It’s only month #2 of the “books that made me love reading" challenge, and already, I’m noticing a pattern.
How are kids supposed to know about Dracula, or Treasure Island, or A Tale of Two Cities?” They said, “Hey, kids probably won’t know about these great books, but maybe after reading Bunnicula, they’ll search them out.”I really respect that about Bunnicula, and frankly, I don’t even remember the huge words being a problem when I was reading it as a kid.
If you didn’t know I was talking about a fictional cat just now, you would probably be like, “Oh, sign me up for some of that!” Don’t lie to yourself, admit it!Sure, Chester isn’t always right about everything.
A blast from my past that is still epic to this day. One of my first horror reads, too. Bunnicula and My Teacher is an Alien are why I started writing stories when I was younger. I read those two books and thought, "Hey, I can do this!" The rest is history.In summation: Find it. Read it. Pass it down through the generations.Final Judgment: Highly recommended for all ages.
Bunnicula, written by Harold the dog and starring Chester the cat, was well-received by my kids on a recent trip north.
It was short, silly, and featured hi jinks of the best kind.
Chester is one high brow cat!
Extremely well-read and quite impressed with himself, he makes frequent literary references and he sees no reason to dumb down his language for Harold and as a parent, I loved that.
I chuckled at his barbs and sarcastic comments, as well as his paranoid ideas about the bunny.
Chester stole the show but Bunnicula is a better title.
Just don't tell Chester that...I suspect he'd be highly offended.
Hilarious and delightful read! I'm a sucker for books narrated by animals. With a Dracula theme and a snarky cat, how can you lose?!
I had completely forgotten about reading this book as a child until a conversation with my best friend likening someone to a bunny with red eyes and fangs.
BUNNICULA is one of those children's books that I love!
It's written from Howard the dog's point of view which I always think is just so much fun.
Full of lovely little references to Edgar Allan Poe and Robert Louis Stevenson, amongst others.
It's not a life lessons book by any means, it's just for fun which I think is really great.
Just read this novel with my elementary book club. The kids found the idea of a vampire bunny hysterical. This book's popularity has been making a comeback lately with all of the vampire hype in recent years. And I must say, my favorite part of the entire novel may be the Editor's Note at the beginning.
He’s widely read, and especially favors Edgar Allen Poe. Harold isn’t quite as intellectual as Chester, but he does have a good deal more common sense.
The lengths he goes to to protect his family from this imagined threat nearly get him tossed out of the house and left my boys and I howling with laughter!Bunnicula is a short read, coming in at only 98 pages, but they’re full of fun and wit.
They haven’t received the same acclaim as Bunnicula, but I own Howliday Inn, and I love it almost as much.
Bunnicula is hilarious! I loved it during the 5th grade when I read it over the summer, and nearly everyone I know enjoys it for its witty humor and quirky characters.
This review can be found at The Book Review.
Charming and Funny.The Monroes' kids didn't know what special rabbit they brought home.Necesitaba con urgencia algo livianito con todas las tragedias pasando en The Fifht Season y esto fue justo lo que necesitaba. A pesar del titulo, no crean un intento de horror para niños (segun dice, esta pensado para 8 años para arriba ;P), sino que es más bien jocoso y escrito con mucho ingenio.Cualquier cosa que me haga reir, tiene mucho valor para mí. "He's a vampire!" Chester snarled. "Today, vegetables.
Charming and Funny.The Monroes' kids didn't know what special rabbit they brought home.Necesitaba con urgencia algo livianito con todas las tragedias pasando en The Fifht Season y esto fue justo lo que necesitaba.
A pesar del titulo, no crean un intento de horror para niños (segun dice, esta pensado para 8 años para arriba ;P), sino que es más bien jocoso y escrito con mucho ingenio.Cualquier cosa que me haga reir, tiene mucho valor para mí.
the world!"Oh, and beware of paranoid cats!Además tiene el plus de ser recomendado por Brandon Sanderson.Reto Posugar 2017.
#41: Recomendado por un autor que te encanta.
Howard the Dog and Chester the Cat enjoy living with their humans - Harold especially likes Toby who enjoys feasts that he shares with Harold.
It is written in the first person from Harold's point of view and it is a lot of fun reading what Harold thinks about the goings on as well as his constant focus on food.
Also fun to read is Chester's ongoing battle to prove Bunnicula is a vampire and how his efforts baffle the family who think Chester is just being a cat.
There is a wonderful sense of humor throughout the book and the vampire elements are never scary and played for fun.
I remember hearing about this little "vampire" bunny when I was a kid, but the story never interested me.
Shame on me, because I read it outloud to my two little boys this past week and had a ball.
Our narrator is the loyal, if not slightly blustering, dog Harold.
When their family discovers a WHITE tomato, Harold's scheming cat-friend Chester is convinced that the family's new bunny is the culprit.
A juice sucking BUNNY?
That is just funny, in fact, my boys were in hysterics more than once, thanks to Chester's hair-brained plans to rescue the family from their fang-toothed pet.I can see why this one is a classic, my boys were always begging for more.
Such a cute little story! Perfect for young readers who like a bit of a darker tale without being too scary. Can't wait to read the rest of the series with my son.
A definite blast from the past. This was very popular when I was growing up and I haven’t read it in over 20 years so I figured the Halloween season this year would be perfect to revisit this children’s horror classic. This was a lot of fun. I loved our narrator Harold, the dog, and his friends Chester, and Bunnicula. There is a nice infusion of humor, in addition to the light hearted horror, into the story and I think it would be enjoyed by readers of all ages. A wonderful read.
Harold the dog and Chester the cat enjoy intelligent conversation, warm milk, and the occasional belly rub at the hands of their human family, the Monroe's.Their quiet lives are turned inside out when the Monroe family brings home a small, white bunny with red eyes and a hand written note in an unknown language tied about his neck.
The family names him Bunnicula.Suspicions rise when vegetables begin to turn up white and drained of juice.Chester, with the help of Harold, derives a plan to uncover the truth about their new house mate.When Chester's plans go awry and Harold befriends Bunnicula, how far will Chester go to reveal the supposed mortal danger he believes they are all in?Howe has captured the essence of man's best friend in Harold, and the conniving, self-importance of a cat in Chester.
I had a bizarre obsession with this book as a diminutive child. There is a vague remembrance of myself dancing menacingly in an airport while my father's friend improvised (at my behest) a song on the topic on his guitar. It is unfortunate that the book was not written by a darker and stranger writer, for my love of the concept didn't really translate to the simple silliness of the books themselves.Of course, I didn't want something evil and frightening, but a bit of Carroll's disturbance would not have gone amiss.
Introduced this book to my 4th grade class. Started out with overhead transparencies of Bela Lugosi as Dracula, and discussed common - held beliefs about vampires. After having the students complete a Vampire Worksheet, we dove into chapter 1, pausing for exciting vocabulary words.A fun, fun read. Great for those kids who have a dry sense of humor. They'll appreciate the jokes. The rest enjoy reading about pets that are smarter than (or, at least as smart as)their humans.
You know those books that you remember very fondly from childhood and then you go back and read them as an adult and you're like 'oh no, it's awful and boring now'? WELL THIS ISN'T ONE OF THOSE BOOKS! This was every bit as hilarious and entertaining as it was when I read it 18+ years ago and I'm so happy I decided to revisit it. Definitely a classic.
I read this to my two youngest daughters and we thought it was hilarious. There were many laugh-out-loud moments for all of us. We look forward to continuing with the adventures of Harold the dog, Chester the cat, and Bunnicula the vampire rabbit.
Before it’s too late, Harold the dog and Chester the cat must find out the truth about the newest pet in the Monroe household—a suspicious-looking bunny with unusual habits… and fangs!
Here is the evidence as well as our first examples of uneven characters acting randomly over the top:“Now tell me, Harold, have you notcided anything funny about that rabbit?”“No,” I said, “but I’ve certainly noticed a lot of funny things about you recently.”“Think about it.
However, as I’m adult now and allowed to read The Walking Dead, I’ll give up this old grudge and embrace Bunnicula for what it is: a good time.It really is a killer concept perfect for the middle grade reader: a vampire bunny that sucks vegetables until they’re white.
I checked out this twentieth-anniversary edition because it includes an almost 60-page appendix, "Writing Bunnicula: The Story Behind the Story."Ah, this is perfect to read by the window while I sip my coffee this morning, I thought.
James Howe tells the story of meeting his wife and love of his life, Deborah.
I suppose her name not being on the cover of subsequent books should have tipped me off.Anyway, five stars to Bunnicula and five stars to the story behind it, a bittersweet tale of struggle and perseverance and a heartwarming tribute to a lost love.
3.5/5A family with a cat named Chester and a dog named Harold brings home a bunny that they decide to name Bunnicula. This story is about the mystery of vegetables turning white and Harold and Chester’s friendship (or lack thereof) with Bunnicula.
Really fun to read, the cat though, an entire strategy and lots of reading to put his plan to action 😂
Sadly, it was not meant to be.Chester: My Lord, I hate know-it-all characters, especially when they go around and flaunt with their "knowledge" and act like they are so superior, better, and more worthy of anything in life.
Oh well, I guess it fits considering we have a vampire bunny, but it was a bit jarring, as I expected the bunny to be the only supernatural thing in this book, but then we get a cat who can read and apparently reads books at night, whut?And frankly the whole OMG the bunny is evil, got annoying, and I just hated Chester for the way he hurt the bunny.
It's been many years since I read this book and I'm not sure if I actually read it myself or had it read to me.My memories about the story were a bit different from what I experienced now re-hearing it (my brother read it to me while I drove him around Northern Minnesota and North Dakota).
Even the family stories that we often hear at Thanksgiving or Christmas, even though I might roll my eyes at some of these stories, which I've heard so many times and which occasionally portray me in a way I think untrue or wish I could forget, even these stories are things that I cannot put a value to, that I would miss if they were forgotten or left out.
I mainly got my books from the library and grocery stores.But why am I telling you this?
Because it was Krena who showed me Bunnicula!She told me I could read it after her and I loved it.
It was then that she started collecting the other books and lending them to me when she was done.Good times!Bunnicula is the story of a cat and a dog who live with their people.
One boy wants to name the little bunny, Dracula, but Mom says they should name it Bunnicula.Chester the Cat and Harold the Dog go to greet the new little fellow, but there's something odd.
Recently, I was cleaning out things from when I taught fifth grade and my daughter saw the book and wanted to read it because she loves animals.
I would guess it received a lower reading level because there is a lot of dialogue with shorter words sprinkled in between the "big words." Finally, while reading I had to check the publishing date because I knew that this book had to have been originally written in the 70's so I found the talk about composting, organic vegetables, and going to therapy to be more "modern." Kind of makes me wonder what I would have thought about these things if I had read the book as an adult 30 years ago - I know that for me as a kid these are things that I never would have heard of during that time.Emily (6 1/2 years old): It was about a bunny.
