https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2791451-witness-to-gettysburg
Being direct quotes from people with a range of education levels and speaking styles, the accounts themselves have the occasional grammatical irregularity, of course, but those changes and idiosyncrasies in the language are all the more valuable for their individuality.Readers of Civil War history will recognize many of those primary sources from other texts and histories.
Though Wheeler deals with both ends of the perspective, it read to me as if his focus was as much as possible on the accounts of ordinary people--as well it should be, given the number and availability of "big man" histories of the Civil War.Readers of historical fiction will recognize many of the stories told in this history as well.
Gettysburg was one massive pile poo that has many angles to cover. Mr. Wheeler does a great job at picking out stories along the way that add a more human perspective on the advance and in battle with a mix of historical research. I read this before visiting the park on the 150th anniversary and was very prepared to see the sights and feel what those written in this book must have felt. (In a 150 years later kinda way).
The book is well-written; and, as the title indicates, Wheeler foregrounds the experience, perspective, and testimony of soldiers, officers, and eyewitnesses who were actually on those Pennsylvania fields during the great battle of July 1-3, 1863.
Witness to Gettysburg takes one through the Pennsylvania Campaign and the Battle of Gettysburg, but not in a manner that is in any way exceptional.
You may find it a useful recounting of the campaign and battle of Gettysburg, especially if you are not already strongly familiar with the topic; but the better you know Gettysburg, the more likely it is that you will finish this book with a feeling that the book is missing something.
The work begins with the two armies glaring at one another across the Rappahannock after the battle at Chancellorsville.
The book traces the movements of both armies from there to Gettysburg.
While the early parts of the campaign are important to be aware of (e.g., Brandy Station, the rout of Milroy's "weary boys" in the Shenandoah Valley, etc.), it seems a bit odd that we don't really get to Gettysburg until half the chapters have been accounted for.The personal viewpoint does add nicely to the telling of the story of the battle itself.
This book, written by Richard Wheeler, combines multiple accounts of soldiers from both sides who were the Battle of Gettysburg.
The first day of the battle has multiple accounts of confederate infantry, and union cavalry, who played a big role in the first day.
After the first day, the union army had set up a defense on multiple hills in the shape of a fish hook.
It goes into the battle at Little Round Top, Round Top, Culp's Hill, and many others.
Culp's Hill was named after a Confederate private's uncle.
The private was at the battle and was killed on Culp's Hill.
This book offers an interesting account of the Battle of Gettysburg as seen through the eyes of participants, both North & South, and civilian witnesses like towns folk and such. Not a detailed account of the battle but certianly a very easy to read and enjoyable (if you can say such about a terrible battle) story about this period of history. The use of first person accounts/recollections fits in with the historical narrative of the author which makes this book a pleasure to read.
Very interesting way to write an account of this well-covered battle. Readers gain a lot of insight by hearing the first-hand accounts and primary reference. I see that few people gave this book more than 3 stars. Having listened to the audiobook, rather than reading- maybe the right narrator who can switch voice in all of these diverse quotations, was the key to enjoying this great volume.
Nothing really outstanding about this book. The battle is so thoroughly covered that it would take something a bit out of the ordinary to pull that off. The book contains numerous full-page illustrations and maps.
The text is mainly drawn from the diaries, letters, and memoirs of participants, as well as newspaper and magazine articles of the time, thus letting the eyewitnesses tell the story. An excellent book in Wheeler's "Eyewitness" Civil War series
An interesting perspective on one of the most famous battles in history. Rather than a "blow by blow" description, Wheeler pieces together witness accounts. He is able to provide a unique angle, using both civilian and soldiers testimony.I enjoyed this one! Recommended.
Well done using the words of those who were there. Thoroughly enjoyed it.
Maybe
Listened to it on audiobook. The reader was too upbeat for the material, too matter of fact. Great historical value, though.
A nice overall account of the battle of Gettysburg based upon eyewitness accounts of soldiers and civilians. I enjoyed it!
It was okay, a bit boring at times, but not too bad. I liked it.
Real eyewitness accounts of what the local residents experienced on that dreadful weekend in July 1863
