https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29290.Time_of_Wonder
This book is poetry.
Robert paints a picture of Island life.
Most of my life I have wanted to live in a coastal town.
I don't know what it is about life on the water, it seems so rhythmic.
I also want to live in Maine someday.
Island life and living in nature.I love the art work that looks like water colors - I could be wrong.
It is a long book, but you can read it quickly.
This is one of my new favorite books.
This is one of my favorite Caldecott books I've read.
“Time of Wonder” may seem a bit too boring for smaller children, but it is truly one of Robert McCloskey’s most beautiful and moving books ever created!Robert McCloskey has done a great job at making the story extremely dreamy and beautiful as he describes the girls’ adventures on the island in a dreamy and poetic fashion, giving the story a beautiful feeling, the type of feeling you get when you go to a wonderful place.
This sparkling story transports you to Penobscot Bay, Maine where you experience the joys and wonders of the changing seasons, from the gentle unfurling of the ferns as spring draws to a close to the fun of swimming in the height of summer to the awesome power of a hurricane as autumn draws neigh.
I love that the story feels timeless in one sense, with all the connections to nature, night and day, the changing tides, the passing seasons.
It feels even more special to me, now, thinking of it like a father telling a story to his daughters, reminiscing about past summers, or perhaps painting a picture of a summer vacation to come.
On an island off the coast of Maine, in Penobscott Bay, two girls and their parents find much to enjoy about the sea, the shore, and the forests.
Here the reader explores an island with two girls.
We watch a summer shower approach, and get wet when it begins to sprinkle; on a foggy morning we watch the lobster fishermen going out to check their pots.
We enjoy a summer unfettered by schedules or school work, exploring the natural world.Of the Caldecott winners I’ve read so far, this has the absolute best illustrations.
I particularly loved how McClosky showed a coming rain cloud approaching across the bay, shading one island after another.
This is the very first book I remember, and when I read it, the voice in my head is my father's.
It's also the very first book that I read all by myself.
I don't remember learning *to* read, but this book is wrapped up in the magic of reading for me.
And its magnificence is perhaps one of the reasons I'm the reader I am today.
McCloskey's words and watercolors combine to make magic.
His turns of phrase are memorable and delightful.
The feelings of a childhood's summer are herein captured with both playfulness and gravitas.
This is a wonderful story about a summer on an island in Penobscot Bay, off the coast of Maine.
The illustrations are terrific and the story, while a bit long, is enchanting.I would recommend reading this in a few installments with children so as to keep their interest.
Our girls got quite a bit bored with it (despite the exciting hurricane and exploring its aftermath), but I hope they will give it another chance someday.
This book was selected as one of the books for the January 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Summary and Critique:Upon finishing Time of Wonder, one feels as though they have lived through an entire summer at Penobscot Bay. The author’s use of the word “you” allows readers to picture themselves as part of the story, picturing the tides coming in going, feeling the salty breeze, building castles in the sand, and searching for tiny creatures along the shore.
The illustrations lend to this feel as they are not entirely crisp and allow the reader to form them in a way that best complements their imagination.
My son and I absolutely loved this book.
It's not much more than an account of magical summers spent in an island off the New England coast.
There's everything from foggy mornings that obscures everything to lazy summer afternoons spent diving off the rock at the end of the island to evenings spent wandering around in the boat.
There's even an end of the summer storm after which it's time to head back home and to school.
It truly sounds like a time of wonder, well loved and wonderfully described and illustrated.
We read this several times when we had it out of the library.
Beautiful, evocative watercolors and a sweet, atmospheric story.
Beautiful illustrations. I feel like this very nicely captures what summer vacations to the ocean would have been like at this point in history. This reads a lot like my dad's stories of summer lake vacations in northern Michigan. I didn't like how he illustrated some of the children, but, his landscapes are beautiful and atmospheric so he gets a free pass on the couple of awkward looking children. Just such a bygone era, when there was the sort of free time to spend an entire summer somewhere in a cottage.
We spent every summer at the beach when she was growing up and she always said it was her favorite time of year because it reminded her of Time of Wonder (even though we were on the Jersey shore and not Maine).
Each time I read it, I can smell the salt air, hear the seagulls cry, feel the waves crashing against my legs, and yes, battening down the hatches for a hurricane (we've been caught in a few of those, including this year).
It's a picture book, but wordier than most, and doesn't really have a clear narrative until close to the end.In the opening pages, the text goes into a lot of geography, naming off islands and points in the bay that have little to no bearing on the rest of the story, and I imagine it's hard for many kids to stay engaged through this part.
By the time my kids are old enough to really "get" the text, they might consider themselves too old for picture books.
My daughter and I have read Blueberries for Sal, by Robert McCloskey, as well as his book One Morning in Maine, which features a slightly older Sal and her baby sister Jane.
In Time of Wonder, Mr. McCloskey does not name the two sisters who are summering on a Maine island, but his watercolor pictures look a great deal like Sal and Jane as I would imagine them as older girls.
My daughter liked discovering Sal and Jane and their dog in each picture -- sometimes small and off in the distance, sometimes very much in the foreground.
I couldn't help comparing this to The Ox Cart Man. Each tells the story of a year in the life of a family, but McCloskey includes wonder with the routine.
The hurricane adds drama, but even in the mundane the language gives life to the story rather than recording the events like an accountant for a strict miser that takes away food for each word used and adds a lash for any imagination.
The rhythmic progression animates his beautiful illustrations in a symbiosis so familiar to the seaside.
The Ox Cart Man should spend a year in Penobscot Bay.
Although I haven't been to Maine, my visit to Nag's Head, North Carolina, gave me some of the feel of a beachy living.
One feels the ocean spray, the salty crust on one's dry skin, hears the waves and the buoys bobbing, the rowboats streaming, the porpoises snorting and the birds laughing.
One feels the misty fog and sees the sunny residue as the fog lifts.
One feels the tension in the air as a hurricane approaches and the relief as it passes and the joy of appreciation of the land before and the land after.
o Summary: This is a very in depth picture book that is beautifully written. It talks about the islands around Maine. It is a book about the summer spent at Maine and all of the adventures at the ocean, beach, and surrounding areas. It also talks about a huge storm that occurs and all the clean up and adventures of the aftermath. o Grade level: 5tho Appropriate classroom use: This is a good book to read after a summer break where kids may have went to the beach. They could relate to it that way.
It is a book about the summer spent at Maine and all of the adventures at the ocean, beach, and surrounding areas.
o	Grade level: 5tho	Appropriate classroom use: This is a good book to read after a summer break where kids may have went to the beach.
o	Whole class use: Read as a whole class if it is going to be tested over.o	Related books in genre/subject or content area: When searching for books related to Time of Wonder, books about rhymes come up.
It reminds me a lot of All the World, which I frequently name as my favorite picture book of all time.
McCloskey captures the same carefree childhood innocence Frazee infuses into her illustrations for All the World, and both books have a timeless quality that extend their relevance far beyond the decade of their publication.
My absolute favorite illustration in the entire book is the moment when the hurricane bursts the door of the house open and the wind and sand sweep everything “hair-over-eyes across the floor.” I’m really impressed by the way McCloskey was able to capture so much movement in a still picture.
Time of wonder by McCloskey Robert Genre: fiction, picture book Reading level: P-up grades Format: goodTime of wonder by Robert McCloskey is a book that really makes the reader feel like they are experiencing what the book is illustrating. For example when the book says “now take a deep breath” this makes the reader actually take a deep breath because the reader doesn’t know what is about to happen once the page is flipped. This book can make many children relate to the story because many times
Time of wonder by McCloskey Robert Genre:	fiction, picture book	 Reading level: P-up grades	Format: goodTime of wonder by Robert McCloskey is a book that really makes the reader feel like they are experiencing what the book is illustrating.
This book can make many children relate to the story because many times trips don’t turn out as planned.
Most of the time children that experience trips with their family can relate to this story.
Lastly, the picture illustrations show different moods the reader can experience while reading the book.
This book can be used in the classroom so that students can share their own trip experiences.
Caledcott Medal (1958)Robert McClosky paints a portrait of a languid summer spent on a Maine island, surrounded by the natural beauty of nature and wildlife, lobster boats and sailing schooners.
Summers end is marked by the onset of a hurricane, which transforms the landscape of the little island and unearths relics from the past.
As summer ends and the family prepares to return to civilization, there is time for reflective thought, such as Where do hummingbirds go in a hurricane?There are two subtle but clear references to God/religion, which is not to my taste, but was certainly not unusual for the time it was first published.
1958 Caldecott Medal.
Favorite Illustration: When the girls row their boat across the lake at night, with all the stars shining above them.This is a quiet, peaceful, almost poetic little tale of a family's summer on an island.
There isn't any dialogue and very little happens in the book, but it is very sweet and makes you want to take some time to look around you and appreciate the little moments with your loved ones that makes life so precious.
I enjoyed McCloskey's illustrations quite a bit, although I think I prefer his pen drawings more - they are so much more expressive!
However, I think that the muted watercolors were much better suited to this particular story.
I read this book today because I'm sad because I broke up with my girlfriend Sunday because I'm unemployed and don't feel good enough.
So I'm home alone, pacing around the apartment, reading this book aloud, and I'm getting soaked into it.
Then the phone rings, and it's the most personable telemarketer you could ever imagine.
"My dad handles the gas bill," I told her eventually.
When will he be home?
I finished the book, and I felt better -- like there's boats, and hurricanes, and friendly people out there just waiting to be hugged and "How'd you do'd?"
It's not my favorite McCloskey book, but as an adult I can definitely reminisce with the author.
It seems like that's what he's trying to do with this story.
I can picture him doing everything he describes.
His pictures are lovely, not too entertaining, but complete the story he is trying to share.
For a child not knowing or understanding life on an island, McCloskey succeeds in capturing how fun/exciting it would be to live off the Maine coast.
I will keep this book among the rest of my McCloskey collection and pass it along to my grandkids.
I very much liked this quiet story and meditation of a summer spent on a northeastern island summer home. This is one of the few picture book stories that is written in the second person: "you can watch a cloud;" "you hear a million splashes;" "you can hear an insect;" etc. The lovely watercolor paintings echo the text very well. The paintings have soft colors and a hazy look. This cozy story will be best suited to elementary age children as it is rather wordy.
While I really loved the illustrations and the language was almost poetic, I had a hard time staying focused on this book. My children didn't care for it at all and in fact only listened to half of it and then asked me to stop reading. I read it all but kept finding my mind wandering. Perhaps the fault is mine but it didn't feel me with wonder.
A really nice time in the summer and where as a family better to spend it on an Deer island. Getting ready for a hurricane and then the cleanup. Unfortunately the summer is coming to an end so they have to go back to their regular home. It is always great to take a scenic tour before you leave.
This was a fairly interesting story, I liked the poetic elements and how the author incorporated so many sights and sounds that you almost felt like you were there, almost. The illustrations were nice as well. A pretty good book, but probably not one I'd recommend.*Taken from my book reviews blog: http://reviewsatmse.blogspot.com/2008...
Not as endearing perhaps as some of McCloskey's other books, but it has a very nice cadence to it and the fury of the storm and aftermath had a real potency that I enjoyed. The art style wasn't as engaging for me as the other books either.
My five-year-old son picked this book out from the library this week. What a beautiful book! The text was too long for my active little boy to sit through right now, but we'll revisit this book in another year or so.
This isn't quite up there with Make Way for Ducklings or Blueberries for Sal as far as the story goes, but I loved the illustrations. Made me want to visit Maine for the summer! My favorite picture was the group of kids jumping off a giant rock.
A fun book to read about a summer in Maine. The illustrations are what really make this book and tell as much of the story as the words. For more and for further exploration suggestions:http://satia.blogspot.com/2010/12/cal...
