https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32980.The_Mystery_at_the_Moss_covered_Mansion
For some time now (especially after reading Girl Sleuth) I’ve been immensely curious about the differences between the original Nancy Drews and the revised editions done starting in the 1960s.
So I did some sleuthing of my own by reading the two editions of Moss-Covered Mansion back to back.
But the mystery plot didn’t seem very tight; Ned Nickerson, Nancy’s boyfriend, made a rather pointless, one-time token appearance; George and Bess, her friends, were paper dolls and completely interchangeable; and the sensibilities toward heritages other than white American were definitely pre-Civil Rights.So I must admit I liked the 1971 revised edition more.
I don’t remember reading any Nancy Drew book about a space station.
After all, the publishing company was losing money because teens were losing interested in Nancy Drew.
I think teenagers who love this series should get the older books and see how the real Nancy Drew solved mysteries.
So, when my eyes are up to it, I will read my original Nancy Drew and give a review on it.
“The 1959 modernization resulted in strikingly different versions of the books.
Maybe the modern teens don’t care because they want mysteries that they can relate to as well.
Hahaha this was sooooo bad (the worst Nancy Drew book thus far) it was almost good??
But here are actual lines from the book: "I could use some help solving the mystery of the explosive oranges" and "Police!
NASA agents!
This is the 1960s revision so it centers around a plot to blow up a rocket ship to the moon at the NASA base in Florida.
I do love when Nancy Drew gets a chance to get out of River Heights, but come onnnnnnn.
The bombers first use crates of exploding oranges and then try for a laser.
A LASER AND EXPLODING ORANGES TO FIGHT NASA.I can't.
Nancy's friends arrive via a car crash right at her front door, and they all decide to take off to Florida for the Kennedy Space Center, as they've decoded "NASA" from said personal message along with the reader.
The author strains for a Big Event per chapter, and sometimes has several, but then again that event might be the girls shopping at a nearby market.Plot=2: Wild animals, exploding oranges, an Adams Family-Style creepy mansion (on the Florida coast?) with SOMETHING in the basement and a tower with a telescope are odd elements which don't really mesh.
Carson Drew is ok with springing for plane tickets for himself, Nancy, and Hannah (and Bess and George?) to fly from River Heights (not sure but think it's Upstate NY) to Melbourne, FL, but totally pissed to shell out a few bucks in cab fare from the airport to the house they're staying in.
This one even has a NANO-esque ending, because rather than actually figuring out the mystery, Nancy and Ned sneak into the guy's house and overhear the gang recounting every detail.
All of his assistants and cronies are lazy, and like himself, stupid, excepting that the villain is the special type of stupid that allows him to be a rocket scientist, yet he can be tracked and captured by a trio of young women: young women who are sleep-deprived, hungry (because the household "help" eats all their food and doesn't clean up), and the young women are constantly in danger because, as stated before, they are surrounded by large carnivorous animals that live right next door thanks to a shady real estate deal.Bonus: most disgusting snack I've seen to date.
While viewing a shuttle launch, Ned and Nancy visit the snack bar and buy "hamburgers and milk." I cannot think of anything worse to eat during a hot summer day.
I read this as part of a book challenge and it was actually quite enjoyable. I read every Nancy Drew book as a kid and watched the television show faithfully. Reading this story is almost like opening a time capsule with newspapers full of coded messages to communicate, station wagons, teens eating formal lunch and dinner and going to church together all while solving a mystery. Nancy Drew is the consummate girl-detective and perfect in every way. She manages to find trouble wherever she goes and this book didn't disappoint (wild tigers and boiling water pits anyone?) A classic!
"I could use some help in solving the mystery of the explosive oranges."How could they possibly have NOT titled this book "The Mystery of the Explosive Oranges"?A particularly stupid mystery in Nancy's lineup.
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew book series.
This Nancy book is a delight. I loved this one. :)
Read this Nancy Drew now!Back to the 13+ audience.This was soooo frustrating!!!!!I was just like the whole time: Nancy!
She doesn't know she's 'Nancy Drew Girl Detective!' she's just her.
With her daddy's money.I think the author (Carolyn or one of the other Nancy Drew writers, not sure...) was trying to make this educational - or maybe the first edition of ND was centered around a time when NASA was all the rage.
Mr. Drew saved us by calling the CIA (or FBI..?) and NASA to arrest the bad guys.
And you like Nancy Drews.
Oh God. Just when you thought things couldn't get crazier, Nancy's in a fucking plane crash.So: Bess originally stumbles onto the moss-covered mansion in question while the girls take a detour off the main road somewhere, and hears a scream, and runs away.
She's a fortune teller's daughter and Ramo's niece.Nancy and Carson get a lead about June, and decide to take a plane, but fog comes up and THE FUCKING PLANE CRASHES AND CARSON ISN'T BUCKLED IN AND A TREE FALLS ON NANCY WHEN SHE'S TRYING TO HELP THE PILOT.
Comparison of ‘The Mystery at the Moss-Covered Mansion’ and ‘Mystery of the Moss-Covered MansionHere is something you need to know before you bother reading these different text versions of this Nancy Drew book.
The only things in common would be is that there is a mysterious moss-covered mansion with African jungle cats inside.
However, one thing I admire about this book compared to the other one is that the mystery is really centered on the moss-covered mansion and trying to figure it out.
Nancy discovers that something besides the training of wild animals is going on at the mysterious moss-covered mansion estate.
I loved this book!! I think it is such a good mystery and super exciting!!!
This one starts out really strong--the descriptions of the moss covered mansion are truly eerie, and there's some major creepy moments with inhuman screams in the night, etc.
Then it just gets sort of goofy and the plot goes off in ten directions at once and by the end of the book I was just emotionally drained.
This review is for the 1941 version.
The 1971 revision sounds pretty fruit loops, as it involves Nancy's dad defending a man who has been falsely accused of trying to send a truckload of exploding oranges to the Kennedy Space Center.
You know, THAT OLD THING.
This was probably my least favorite Nancy Drew book so far. The plot felt very forced and unbelievable, which admittedly comes with the territory of a Nancy Drew mystery but this one was especially bad. The story is also not ended in a satisfying way. Nancy and her friends save the day but the criminal mastermind's motive to blow up a NASA rocketis vaguely described as "extreme political ideology" and random characters are introduced at the last second in order to tie everything up. This book definitely shows the age of the Nancy Drew Mysteries
Highlights: exploding oranges, exotic menagerie of wild animals next door. (For some reason the menagerie thing reminded of Heart of Darkness/ Isle of Dr. Moreaux.)I kept picturing Brando there, it has minimal appearance in book..some things (or baggage)you just bring to books on your own. P.S. Spanish Moss...I'm there.
Ohhhh, Nancy Drew!!! I loved reading these & Trixie Belden stories when I was younger. I didn't realize then how awesome it was to have a girl detective as the heroine...I am a huge fan of girl power! I think every girl should read these growing up!
Here's my thing about Nancy Drew. I find a lot of the books fun, but there's something that always drives me nuts. Nancy. Shes perfect at everything and happens to stumble upon essential clues. It gets annoying. However, some of the stories are really interesting
Read aloud to my daughter, this was your typical Nancy Drew mystery. Unique events in this story include expoding oranges at NASA, a secret mansion surrounded by wild animals, filled in with lots of your typical Nancy Drew drama, where she is almost attacked by a leopard, and almost falls into a boiling pool. Danger! Danger!
My daughter is obsessed with the Nancy Drew books.
She's read the first 19 so far.
This sounded like a really good one - astronauts and wild animals?
The plot was solid - Mr. Drew gets called to Florida to help a friend who was accused of trying to blow up a moon rocket, so Nancy, George and Bess go down with him to help investigate.
There's a lot happening - real estate, wild animals, stolen boats, Nancy's boyfriend, stolen cars, astronauts - and it all gets wrapped up neatly.
Still, a fun read.
For some time now (especially after reading Girl Sleuth) I’ve been immensely curious about the differences between the original Nancy Drews and the revised editions done starting in the 1960s.
So I did some sleuthing of my own by reading the two editions of Moss-Covered Mansion back to back.
But the mystery plot didn’t seem very tight; Ned Nickerson, Nancy’s boyfriend, made a rather pointless, one-time token appearance; George and Bess, her friends, were paper dolls and completely interchangeable; and the sensibilities toward heritages other than white American were definitely pre-Civil Rights.So I must admit I liked the 1971 revised edition more.
Comparison of ‘The Mystery at the Moss-Covered Mansion’ and ‘Mystery of the Moss-Covered MansionHere is something you need to know before you bother reading these different text versions of this Nancy Drew book.
The only things in common would be is that there is a mysterious moss-covered mansion with African jungle cats inside.
However, one thing I admire about this book compared to the other one is that the mystery is really centered on the moss-covered mansion and trying to figure it out.
Nancy discovers that something besides the training of wild animals is going on at the mysterious moss-covered mansion estate.
I'm thinking the 1969 rewrite replaced themes and activities more closely related to WWII.I love that you don't have to read the Nancy Drew mysteries in order.
Each adventure is a complete story unto itself.
There might be a tiny reference to a previous adventure, but nothing is heavily based on them so the reader is not confused.
Not an issue at all.In this installment Nancy and her friends travel to Florida and Cape Canaveral to help figure out how exploding oranges got into the NASA compound.
Furtive, nefarious, alight, and many more lovely words sew this story together.
I liked this book. It had some really interesting action scenes, and I was shocked to find out who was the criminals were at the end! I wish it was more spooky, and most scenes weren’t around the moss-covered mansion.
I've read both versions of this book and the original is way better.
It has a murder and wild animals and guns and a house collapses and it is just so good!
The revised text is not so great, I mean exploding oranges?
An evil lab with a boiling water pool to dispose of your enemies?
And whats with Ned's parents happening to have a house near by, that's just weird.
That is just weird detail.
Anyways the original is great and actually was scary.
I didn't know what the hell was going on at this creepy house.
The end was also great, a total surprise.
This novel is great !
In this book , Nancy and her friends visit Florida to solve a mystery having to do with her father's legal matters .
Once again , it is astonishing of how well these books are written .
This book is part of the Nancy Drew series and I would recommend reading all 56 of them .
This is number 18 in the series , and with 177 pages of suspense and edge written in an old-fashion tone , you would love reading these books .
I read the 1941 edition, which is apparently a completely different plot than the revised version.
I do think the original books are better written, but they also occasionally have uncomfortable moments.
This particular one, for instance, made me squirm quite a bit with the description of the maids and their dialect.
That aside, the book itself was really rather odd.
It could be worse, though - apparently the revised book has a plot about exploding oranges.
I can't decide if that is ridiculous or fantastic, but either way it appears this book is a dud no matter which version you read.

I remember the first time I read Nancy Drew. It blew my mind that there were girls presented with a brain. Most of the stuff I'd read up to that time, was that girls were sugar and spice - fluffy. No brains. To also learn about George who is a tomboy was a nice validation. Carolyn Keene wrote just for me! That is how I felt. When I did more research, I was shocked to find out, Ms. Keene was actually a man ... writing under Frank Dixon. I also loved the Hardy Boys. No wonder I loved these series.
