https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17826887-children-of-the-corn

I had an itch to re read this story and my goodness it's a good one. This is one of those shorts you wish was a novella or even a full novel--there's plenty here! I love this crazy fighting couple that happen upon a freaky little ghost down full of wicked children! And what's in the Corn??? The one who walks behind the rows...
Tek kada se pocelo zahuktavati i nesto dolaziti na vidjelo, prica zavrsava. Sigurna sam da bi s vise detalja i upoznavanja likova ovo bilo puno bolje.
This review can also be found here!I got into a huge Stephen King mood the other day, so I started searching around.
So, I got it because I remember liking the movie and I forgot he actually wrote it.
(Isn’t it crazy how you can forget his huge body of work?)But, since this is such a short story, this is going to be a pretty short review.I thought it was a solid story.
It needed that little bit more, it was basically begging for a longer story to be attached to the vignette.So, I liked it but I wished that there was more to it.
Highly creepy and well told in such a short amount of pages. I wish it were a full length book!
This was a good one. But I still love corn too much to be scared.
I finally made it to the main reason I wanted to read Night Shift, and it was worth the wait. "Children of the Corn" is one of my favorite Stephen King movies. Yeah, yeah, I know it sucks, but that doesn't stop me from loving it anyway. Turns out they took a few liberties with the original story. "You're kidding!"Nope, afraid not. However, I really like the story version better than the movie. First off the story in the book makes much more sense, and suspension of disbelief isn't strained to sn
(hide spoiler)]Possible Randall Flagg sightingI'm always interested in character crossovers from one Stephen King work to another, and this is supposed to have one.
According to many fans, He Who Walks Behind The Rows is actually Randall Flagg who causes trouble in a lot of King's stories.
The Stephen King wiki says that it's implied that He Who Walks Behind The Rows is Randall Flagg, but doesn't expound on that at all.
I can't find any place where Stephen King states they're one and the same, but someone did point this out: he who WALks behind ThE Rows.See that nice little sobriquet there?
Vicky and Burt, a married couple attempting to rekindle their love for one another are driving coast to coast for vacation.
Children of the Corn is much more than a spooky horror story.
The blatant interpretation of using religion as a pulpit for extremism justifications and ultimately death and destruction and religion kills is obvious and has been done before but because there are many bible references for a horror story and not any mention of Satan makes it all the more terrifying.
Reading this short story in 2014 I have a different interpretation than just the lovely religion kills meaning, which is still salient today.
After seeing the Children of the Corn movie last year and now having read the story, I'm happy to say they're apples and oranges.
The film does the short story a disservice.
This was far more interesting and better executed than a tale of creepy cornfields has any right to be.
Though, it's not perfect.
When I read the line, "And here, in the heartland of Nebraska, in the corn, there was nothing but time." I was screaming, End it there!
End it there!
And I would recommend it--my small gripes aside--especially if all you've seen is the film(s).
A classic horror short from King.A classic from King! It's been years since I read this. Fear the children in rural Nebraska and He Who Walks Behind The Rows! I really wish this had been expanded into a novel. Fab.

The overall creepiness of this story rivals almost anything I've read. It's almost more of what you never saw than what actually happens. If you are a fan of atmospheric horror you should like this story. Just eerie.
This story just made me realize where all small town cult horror films come from, a horror classic, perfect king stuff of nightmares, love it!
Prekratko.
There are strange indications that something in the Bible belt has gone askew, and a deity in the miles of corn is being appeased — by the children.While I didn’t care for the ending — I may be the only person on the planet who hadn’t seen the film — the story itself had a nice flow and I was caught up in the plight of the couple, despite not particularly liking either one of them.
A fine story, not perfect, but wildly readable, and an example of what guys like King and Koontz can do in this genre when they don’t get carried away with padding.
This is such an amazing and creepy - very scary - short story I wish it were a long novel. King manages to tell in just a few pages what many authors couldn't do in hundreds of pages. Just another example that you don't need many pages to tell great stories. Recommended for all. Just avoid reading it in the night. I learned that the hard way.
Loved this book. Recommended.
oh my god, this book. Fantastic short story from our favorite horror author !
Playlist Buck OwensTammy WynetteLeaning on the Everlasting Arms - Alan JacksonThe Phantom of the Opera
"E a faca foi erguida para sacrificar o cordeiro - mas teria sido um cordeiro? Talvez elesfossem arrebatados por uma mania religiosa. Sós, totalmente isolados do resto domundo por centenas de quilómetros quadrados de milharais farfalhantes. Sozinhos sobsetenta milhões de hectares de céu azul. Isolados sob o olhar vigilante de Deus, agoraum estranho Deus verde, um Deus de milho, envelhecido, alienado, faminto. Aqueleque Anda por Detrás das Fileiras."
Para ser una historia tan corta, me he quedado un tanto perturbada. Es muy intensa e inquietante (aunque personalmente pienso que todos los thrillers que involucran a niños son terroríficos). Me hubiese encantado una novela más larga y con más detalles, porque he disfrutado de este relato muchísimo.  “No corría viento. ¿Cómo era posible que el maíz susurrara?”
One of Stephen King's best short stories; I loved the 1984 film (I first saw it in grade seven and loved the scenery, the soundtrack, everything), so it was really exciting and nostalgic to be able to read the short story that brought out the whole film series.
It was a fast creepy read. Hard to put down but I wanted it to be more. Thought it could be a little bit longer , I don't know.It probably works good as a movie (which is done and I'm going to watch soon).
My whole life all I did was talk shit about Stephen King, because I figured...
How good of an author could you be when you put out, like, 50 books per year?
How quality could those be???Found this on the Kindle store and thought I should at least give him a shot.This story was the perfect amount of creepy.
ehhhh.Overall it was a good story, but it didn't quite SCARE me like I was expecting/hoping.
The suspense was really good.(And yes, I do scare easily.
I can't watch anything without being too scared to go to sleep.
King channels Shirley Jackson in this well known short story. Unfortunately the campy movie version and sequels has turned it into a series of pop culture jokes. When I first read this in the collection Night Shift it gave me the willies. I puzzled over how a small town could go under such a creepy transformation without going noticed...think hard about that after you read it. The story originally appeared in Penthouse in 1977. I had forgot that King made the main character a Vietnam vet. That sets the period and adds to the atmosphere, intrigue and action.
South Park made me read this :)http://southpark.cc.com/full-episodes...
4 ვარსკლავი, რადგან გაცილებით კარგი იქნებოდა ეს რომ წიგნი ყოფილიყო.
Interesting lore and religion with the eldritch being that is "He Who Walks Behind the Rows". Too bad the movie franchise fucked this story over.
Great short!
King introduces us to the characters, honing in on their flaws and differences then slowly plunges them into intense situations.
This organic form of storytelling heightens even the littlest of twists as we find ourselves invested in a tiny aspect of the characters which grows to all out dread for them as the story unfolds.
Time seemed to have stopped in a little town surrounded by fields of corn.
The abandoned town shelters a dark secret.
And the corn fields hide an even darker secret.Children of the corn is terrifyingly beautiful and definitely is worth multiple reads.
Until one realises that there are hundreds of King shorts that are equally brilliant.
Worth the rating.
