https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/225725.The_House_of_Dies_Drear
I know this book is a classic, but it drove me nuts that the first 3/4 of the book was so creepy and atmospheric...and then it turned into Scooby Doo, complete with rubber masks and meddlin' kids. Ugh.
There are some “ghostly happenings,” which I’m not sure would fool even a ten year old, and then (view spoiler)[an actor helps them dress as ghosts to scare the people who are scaring them, and the book ends.
As an aside, I’ve read a few “classic” children’s ghost stories lately and while believe me, I am in no way saying that kids around my age were neglected or abused (I know, I get it, different time, etc.
I expected more from this book than I got. I think that I had vaguely heard a lot about it, and thus expected it to be some sort of amazingly-written work of art. Instead I just found dull, overly-descriptive, under-developed and predictable literature. The plot is interesting in that it combines history with a mystery, so perhaps that is the source of its acclaim. I, though, was not drawn in enough by it to enjoy nor to recommend The House of Dies Drear.
This was a suspenseful mystery - a history mystery! I liked it. But it was a bit too long. (Caleb age 10)
It's effectively a story about father-son relationships, smartly wrapped within a ghost story, as 13-year-old Thomas Small and his professor father learn the truth about the mysterious old Civil War era house the Small family moves into, outside Columbus, OH, and its connections to the Underground Railroad.Hamilton develops an engaging cast of characters, especially Mr. Pluto, the sinister caretaker of the house, and does a great job of weaving important bits about slavery and the Civil Rights era for context, without making it the focus of the story.
I did not like it at all(I apologize if this is anyone’s favorite book). It was very over the top and I found the plot hard to follow. This book did not grasp my interest. Now I know you might be thinking why did you read it then? Well, I had to read it for school and I had hoped that would improve. I was sadly disappointed.
Not that it's a bad book, but not spellbinding at all, and not really suspenseful, let alone edge-of-seat.What I liked: The descriptions of the mountains of North Carolina were beautiful and spot-on.
In the second chapter, the author felt she had to tell us the entire history of the Underground Railroad where the house was concerned, but only bits of it were important to the plot later.
The second half of the book was much better as far as pacing and plot goes, but a lot of questions were left unanswered from the beginning.
Thomas then had done some snooping around, to find out the secrets of the house.I like this book a lot.
That made me read more, and thats something i really look for in a book, which made me like it a lot.This book was pretty suspenseful.
It was able to make me keep reading more, because once u find something out like most mysteries, you want to find out the whole truth behind it.
I would suggest this book to anyone who wants to read and be sucked in by the suspense of the book and your own questions.
I love saying it, though it sticks on my tongue.Winner of the coveted Edgar Award, this book is a juvenile historical that is structured like a mystery."Thomas Small, a 13-year-old African American boy, moves with his family into a house that was once part of the Underground Railroad that is in Ohio.
His father, Mr. Small, tells Thomas that the caretaker of the house is Mr. Pluto.
In the end, they learn that the Darrows are doing all they can to scare away the Smalls and get the treasure located in the underground railroad tunnel."Thrilling and educational, I don't know why this title doesn't come up more.
A young African-American boy and his family move to a mysterious historic mansion on the outskirts of a small college town in Ohio. Thomas is determined to find the truth behind the stories about the house’s history as a stop on the Underground Railroad. Will he succeed?
Good that the story concerns an important part of history that is often overlooked. However, I found the writing not cohesive in many parts. I know it was written for kids, but I still did not like the writing style. The ending was a let down after the mysterious build up.
When I added The House of Dies Drear to my to-read shelf I didn't realize this was a young adult book.
I didn't know Ohio figured so much in African-American history, and this book opened a lot of doors for me.
The House of Dies Drear taught me that the significance of Ohio to American slaves ran deeper than I perhaps knew or ever realized.
This book showed me that in order to find answers about my 5th great grandfather, I need to find answers about Ohio and African-American history.
13-year-old Thomas Small is thrilled when his family moves into the historical Drear House, even if it means leaving Virginia and moving to Ohio.
What kid wouldn't love a potentially haunted house that's full of secret passages?
Who are the mysterious figures that creep through the house unnoticed?
There are tons of shivers here, but what I really enjoyed was the characterization of Thomas and his relationship with his father.
It's kind of nice to read a book of this kind where the adults aren't constantly denying or dismissing the child protagonist's observations and theories; in this book, Thomas and his father solve the mystery together.
It was probably my first introduction to the topic of slavery in American history as well as the Underground Railroad, and it's presented in a great, engaging way.
It's a great book for kids, and has some wonderful things to say about why history and legacy is important and needs to be protected and honored.Virginia Hamilton has a style similar to that of Harper Lee. She uses clear, evocative prose to set the tone of a scene and Thomas' father definitely has shades of Atticus Finch in him.Overall, a very nice novel and a classic of American Children's Literature.
I read this book because my 6th grader is currently reading it in school.
Overall, however, I found it to be hard to follow and a bit unbelievable.
The language used in conversations was stilted and forced, and often very difficult to follow.
Many times characters would say something, and I had no idea what it meant or why they said it.
The main character in the book, an adolescnent boy, seemed mature way beyond his years.
That being said, I am fairly certain that my son will be equally confused by the book, the plot, the author's motivation and point of view.
Deliciously chilling, with a healthy dose of history fascinating in its own right.
I spent lots of time as a kid picturing the Underground Railroad as an actual railroad underground.
But even after I learned better, I didn't appreciate what it truly was.
I think I learned more about the Underground Railroad in this book than I did in primary and secondary school combined."I'll take freedom any day over all the romantic nonsense about slavery," said Mayhew."I mean not to glorify it," said Mr. Small.
It's a part of our history, and yet no one tells the truth about it."
A creepy and mysterious book about an old house, which was formerly a hiding place and transfer station on the underground railroad, the family that moves into it, and the old man who for many decades has been the steward of the secrets it holds. Interesting and historical fiction-ey, though the writing is a bit uneven. Powerful in that the old man is not just the steward of the physical secrets of the house but of the experiences of the runaway slaves who are an unseen but integral part of the story.
Thomas and his family just moved into this new house. Thomas first Thought of the house was what he expected. He knew something was up with the house. The only problem was he had to find out the hard way. Dies Drear and 2 other slaves had been murdered there, and there ghosts were said to have haunted the house. Thomas then had done some looking around, to find out the mystery of the house. I liked this book because I am into the ghost and mystery scene
I know this is a classic and I'm embarrassed that this is the first time I've read it, even after having been an elementary librarian for seven years. I'm sorry, but I just didn't get it. There were good sequences and good scenes. Overall it was confusing and jumpy. Not recommended unless you are wanting to check off the classics on your list.
Great to help teach about the Underground Railroad to 5th grade. There is also a movie that can be used after the class finishes reading the book.
Rather mild horror. Basically a gothic novel. But pretty good.
In his research on the property, it's discovered that the house is believed to be haunted by the ghosts of two murdered slaves, as well as the old home-owner and station-master, Dies Drear.
In his investigations, Thomas stumbles on an even deeper mystery that involves old Mr. Pluto, the caretaker of the property.The story started out creepy right away, but fizzled a bit as the haunting turned out to have a rational explanation.
I was looking for more genuine ghostliness like in 'Something Wicked This Way Comes' or 'The Watcher in the Woods,' but this book was enjoyable, and now that I've seen there's a follow-up book, I'd be really interested to read it.
I've been meaning to read this book for awhile.
This book is dated, dull, and a tad confusing.
The father treats Thomas as if he's older than his thirteen years while treating the mother as someone who needs coddling.
The father also withholds information from the mother and Thomas, which builds the idea that there's a mystery regarding the house they are moving into.
The house certainly appears sinister and Thomas's first visitors, Mac and Pesty, appear to be highly unconventional.
(Pesty supposedly just showed up at Mac's house one day & they decided to let her stay???
I can't imagine how this book won an award.
I liked the premise of this book a lot, and if I were a middle schooler it would definitely have left me terrified at parts.
I think though that as an adult I should have read a little more about the book and the author before actually reading it, because I didn't clue in to a lot of things until partway through the book.
This was definitely my bad.
The book is a great read though!
That being said, Virginia Hamilton is a great author and I did like this book a lot!
Read this for the 2018 Goodreads Read Harder challenge as my choice for a children's classic published.
The fact that this was a children's classic is very weird to me?
It did start off spooky and I was a little weirded out reading it on a Saturday evening, and then it just took a turn into a weird family feud.
I also felt like no one spoke or acted naturally and the family all seemed stilted and odd.
That all said, it was interesting, and a very quick read.
What if your family was moving into a big old house that is said to be haunted?
This is what Thomas Small must deal with when his father moves them into this old house that was part of the Underground Railroad during the Civil War. His father is a new history professor at the local college.
The house fits with his preoccupation with the civil war and treatment of the slaves.
There is a very spooky black caretaker that some in town considered to be the devil.
See what happens when they move in and try to get acquainted in town.
This was a book that I tracked down because it had some elements of a book I remember reading as a kid...my memory was of a book featuring a kid or kids, at least one secret passage, and the use of phosphorous paint to make people seem like ghosts.
I guess this book was the one I read, but there was so much about it that I did not remember!
It was not a bad read, and has much more racial complexity than I would have grasped as a kid, but didn’t quite live up to my hazy hyped up memory.
Still, a solid read for kids.
The story was an insightful view of the mindsets in a post-slavery world amongst several generations of African Americans. It was also a thought provoking view into the minds of men in a coming of age story shrouded in legend and folklore. I found myself drawn in by the puzzling happenings in what could be described as a haunted house, but I also found the history surrounding the Underground Railroad and the experiences that people had in the United States around that time period to be fascinating. Overall, I consider this a must read for anyone.
I have been trying to figure out what the hell this book was called for the past four years. And suddenly did a google search today (after having done several) and it came up with something? For once. There were only vague parts I had to go with but, as there is a tv movie which I know I've seen after reading the book in school, I have finally found it. Might give it another quick read someday as I remember it being sort of interesting.
Sometimes it’s completely lost on me what makes a book a classic. This story was horribly written. Hamilton babbles on incessantly throughout this entire story, that pretends to be a history/mystery for all of 10 minutes. There’s literally no character growth, but how could there be? The story takes place over two days, yet manages to drag on for 300 pages of rambling. I’ll give it 5 points for smelling like an old book because I love that smell. Otherwise it sucked.
