https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311135.Behold_Here_s_Poison
This wasn't my finest moment as a moderator, but I was so sure I had a copy of this book. Fortunately TradeMe (NZ's answer to Ebay) came to the rescue & I now own all GH's mysteries. So I'm very late to the party at the  Georgette Heyer Fans GroupMy cover is quite charmingly retro.   Unfortunately the pages were falling out as I read them, but I still enjoyed Ms Heyer's remarkable gift of bringing even the most unlikeable characters (& they were mostly very unlikeable) to life. The murde
This wasn't my finest moment as a moderator, but I was so sure I had a copy of this book.
So I'm very late to the party at the  Georgette Heyer Fans GroupMy cover is quite charmingly retro.
Unfortunately the pages were falling out as I read them, but I still enjoyed Ms Heyer's remarkable gift of bringing even the most unlikeable characters (& they were mostly very unlikeable) to life.
Humour me!)Only other fault is there wasn't enough Sergeant Hemingway!["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Harriet (the dependent sister with the mania for penny-pinching) is no doubt exceedingly annoying, but how did she get that way, after all?
Dependent, derided and dismissed, with no life of her own, it's not all that surprising she was so unhappy.
And Gertrude, treated as something quite dreadful for being female and domineering, despite being the most honest character in the story.The narrator, again, speaks very languidly, but is remarkably good at providing a range of voices.
Most of you are aware of my love for Georgette Heyer, so it's probably no surprise that I couldn't resist trying out one of her mystery novels.
I do believe that this woman could make a grocery list read witty!Behold, Here's Poison is an entertaining little murder mystery with a "Clue" sort of vibe to it.
The characters are a little wacky, but in a delightful and amusing way.
I fell in love with his quick tongue and smart remarks...made me laugh out loud a few times, drawing odd looks from my husband!Thanks to Danielle at Sourcebooks for the opportunity to read such a great book!
A typical Golden Age Mystery: An English country house, a dysfunctional (not always) upper-class family and a whodunit.
It revolves around Gregory Matthews, the head of the family in the Poplars, who's found dead one morning in his bed and it's assumed to be due to natural causes.
However his sister is not convinced and demanded a post-mortem, which reveals that he was poisoned.
However, how Gregory was poisoned is a complete mystery and every member of the family has a motive to kill him, and you shall not guess who is he till the end.
The book starts off with a man, the unlikeable patriarch of a family lying dead and the doctor had already signed his death certificate.
This gets the family on each other's nerves worse than before and half of the charm of the book is in the interactions between the different people.The plot is very interesting, and I really liked the way it wound up.
I'd rather read about an abusive man than one who is bored all the time.
That's not something most people would think about when someone dies in their family!
Contrary to what this cover leads one to expect, there are no vampish women or costume parties in this mystery, just an unpleasant extended family who lead boring lives (and deaths -- these are about the most boring murders ever) and eat food that is bad even for the English.
He refuses to allow his namby pamby nephew Guy to continue wasting his money as an interior decorator or to allow Stella, Guy's sister, to marry that Dr. Fielding whose family hides a secret.
When the servants find Mr. Matthews dead one morning it comes as a huge shock to everyone, especially the family.
The will comes as something of a shock and what's worse, the post-mortem reveals Gregory Matthews did not die a natural death-he was poisoned!
Mrs. Lupton comes across as awful and tyrannical, much like her brother, but she is one character who actually has brains.
After Harriet died, I thought for sure Mrs. Matthews did it.
Set in the London suburbs during the 20's it was full of quirky characters, some good intrigue, and cozy settings that draw the reader in to curl up and relax with a good book.The story is part of a series, but only in a loosely connected way.A detestable head of a family is killed and there are plenty of suspects right under his own roof let alone outside the house, but the method of administering the poison and the many motives and suspects who all do their level best to obscure the case leave the police with a real head-scratcher.
and The Unfinished Clue.This offering features a cast of family and friends who all have the motive, means and opportunity to murder gruff and bullying Gregory Matthews, who is found dead in his bed.
The doctor called to the scene thinks so, but is overruled by Gregory's sister, who wants a second opinion.
Good call that, because toxicology results show that Matthews died of nicotine poisoning.Scotland Yard inspector Hannasyde sifts through everyone's alibis to arrive at the truth, but it takes a second murder before the killer is exposed.Good stuff for murder mystery fans.
It didn't take me long to realise I have read this Heyer before, but I very much loved romping through this reread. Deftly drawn characters, sparkling dialogue & a novel method of murder - what's not to love?(view spoiler)[ It's easier to guess the murderer than the male love interest (hide spoiler)] & Hemingway is my favourite "Watson!"
Crímenes en la Inglaterra victoriana muy del estilo de Agatha Christie. He leído este libro a raíz del homenaje que se le hace en “La pequeña librería de los corazones solitarios”. No había leído nada de G. Heyer y me ha encantado descubrirla. La trama policiaca es genial. La parte romántica hace muchas, muchas aguas, pero compensa el resto.
I love Georgette Heyer because of her ability to write charming characters.
I have read a fair number of regencies and mystery novels where the characters are flat stereotypes of the genre.
Her characters, on the other hand, have a rare depth for the genres - they change, and our view of them changes along with the story.
I think this is the second of Heyer's novels I have read with cousin marrying as a plot point, which is perhaps a bit strange to modern eyes.
Sophie is one of the greatest characters in a genre populated by stereotypes.) It's enjoyable, and recommended for fans of the 1930s mysteries.
Heyer has a way of introducing her characters then altering your perception of their qualities.
At first blush there does not seem to be a redeeming feature amongst them yet the one we never meet is the person they consider rude, unpleasant, and, of course, dead.
As the interactions progress it appears there are reasons for some of the unpleasant behavior due to the controlling character of the dead man.As with Neville and other flip, witty, young men Heyer has Randall marked out as the far to clever lounge lizard.
With repeated exposure all the family becomes sympathetic but Stella and Randall are fanciful but well fleshed through their dialog.
Loved it. I think this might be my favorite of Ms. Heyer's mysteries. The characterizations are marvelous.
I shan't be re-reading it again.ETA: 9/4/17-just re-read this for the GH group (yeah, I know I said I wouldn't 3 years ago, but times change...) I liked it better this time--maybe up to 3.5 stars worth.
My opinion of most of the characters didn't change a whole lot, but I appreciated Heyer's deft and witty way of dealing with them.
I caught more of the romance hints this time around--I liked Stella a bit more than I first did and came to understand Randall a lot more.ETA :9/12/17 Ha!
Judging by the other titles around it, I was glomming Heyer's mysteries that holiday weekend.
It is SO typical of the genre: the manor house, the servants, the dysfunctional family.
The story revolves around the Matthews family, each more detestable than the next.
This is definitely not a police procedural and the detective is only a minor player in the action.
As for action, there is almost none.
This book depends on the snappy repartee of the family members who all despise one another, and it that, this novel excels.
If you like great dialogue, you'll enjoy the caustic conversations.
As I was reading, I could totally visualize this book as a play, like The Mouse Trap.
But while most of the "cast" remains insufferable, a few - such as Stella and Randall - become more interesting as the plot moves forward.
There are also some nice unexpected plot developments.
As has been pointed out elsewhere about her mysteries, Heyer seems more interested in the comedy of manners aspect of her stories than in the actual detective work.
Yet despite these reservations, Georgette Heyer knows how to write a good story.
Therefore, if you tend to like British mysteries from this era, you will very likely find something to enjoy in this one.
I liked the earlier Heyer mysteries I've read much more than this one.
My lack of enthusiasm is in some part due to the writing but also due to the very poor audio book version I listened to.
The reader made unlikeable characters even more so.
Indeed, his rendition of Randall made him so very unlikeable that the already thin romantic sub-plot was made totally unbelievable.
I haven't read all of Heyer's mysteries, but of those I have read I think that this is the weakest so far.
At first, everyone thinks that Gregory Matthews died of a combination of nastiness, apoplexy, and the duck he ate for dinner that night. Then Aunt Harriet, "a regular cough drop" dies, too, and that changes everything. Stella and her brother Guy agree that it's just too bad the deaths can't be pinned on poisonous cousin Randall, the heir to the family fortune. A lovely, acid-tongued comedy of manners, as good as anything by Agatha Christie.
Everyone loves a good vintage detective story, obviously. I had never read any of Georgette Heyer's detective novels, and so when I had the opportunity to pick one up for free, I jumped at the chance.Read the rest of my review at my blog, Vintage Novels.
Enjoyable, well written, English whodunit, with some lovely plot twists, dry humour and a little old-fashioned romance along the way. I really feel that Heyer's mysteries are terribly underrated.
As always an entertaining crime novel from the Golden Age. An awful man is found dead and his awful family are all suspected of murder. I wasn't quite sure who'd dunnit but had correct suspicions.
Quite interesting, and entirely unexpectedI must say, I like Hannasyde much better than Hemingway, possibly because the narrator, while quite good overall, does a terrible job of Hemingway's voice.....
1936, #2 Inspector Hannasyde, rural England; odd family in an odd, old house, with peculiar servants; multiple murders and lots of intrigue but slow and talky.
But she has a way with a turn of phrase, a sly, nicely calibrated sense of satire mixed with just a touch of broad humor as well, so that her mysteries are entertaining even if there are no great puzzles to unravel.
I enjoy her writing quite a lot - the plots are easily (but not quite too easily) guessed, the characters are entertaining, the dialogue still very funny, at least to my own odd sense of humor.
Heyer was an entertaining, if not spectacular, mystery writer, and I'm glad I "met" her.
Of course, I'm old and addled but I think that what most readers remember about Heyer's off-beat mysteries is not the plot, but the entertaining characters and the wonderful humor.This one was published immediately after DEATH IN THE STOCKS and is very similar - involving an unpleasant older man and his jazzy young relatives.
Given how exasperating the Mathews family can be, Hannasyde needs all the help he can get.Heyer knew the first rule of a successful "cozy mystery" - make the victim successful and wealthy, but such a bastard that everyone is relieved to be rid of him.
I'm not a fan of Ms Heyer's regency romances, but I have enjoyed her mysteries.
In this book, the tyrannical patriarch of a family is discovered dead in his bed.
While his sister, sister-in-law, niece and nephew who live with him believe he must have died of a heart attack in his sleep and his doctor declares he died of natural causes, his other sister who comes over, takes one look at him and demands a postmortem, much to the alarm and horror of the rest of the family.
In building the case, Ms Heyer keeps us guessing right until the last couple of pages.
When Mr. Matthews, wealthy head of the family, is found murdered by poison, his relatives (most of whom live in his mansion) seem to each have a motive.As the dead man's constantly quarrelsome family await the outcome of the investigation, they bicker and insult each other with wickedly sharp tongues.
Most of the family -- both young and old -- are pretty dislikeable, but not so that it interferes with the story's enjoyment.It's great that a mystery written in 1936 holds up perfectly well in 2009.
His niece finds it all rather unbearable, and shockingly sordid, and it really doesn't help that cousin Randall, the new head of the family, keeps dropping around to be wear on everybody's nerves and make insinuations.So, I found another Heyer mystery in the library, and couldn't help myself.
This one has the closest cognate for her high-handed regency rake, in the form of the desperately unlikeable Randall, who, of course, figures everything out before everybody else, and finally wins the girl, who also doesn't like him much but finds that it doesn't matter.
This is one of the mysteries written by Georgette Heyer, who is perhaps better known for her Regency Romances.
Although characters and style of living are similar to those in her romances, this story is truly a murder mystery without the focus on social behaviors of the era.
Because this is Heyer, you'll not be bored with the characters.This was a well-crafted mystery, with some good red herrings to keep you guessing.
There are enough lies or incomplete truths spoken by characters to keep the mystery going, not only for the detective inspector and his sergeant, but also for the reader.
Loved this book.
4.5 stars.
It may not solve all the world's problems, but what it does (British cozy-mystery) it does very well.
Heyer is the mistress of writing quirky, amusing characters, and she does it very well here.
Heyer is also the mistress of writing sarcastic, sharp-tongued, foppish male characters who have no hesitation saying what others might only think, and who appear somewhat superficial, lazy and idle but actually have hidden depths.
Particularly loved when he told his aunt he was not surprised that his uncle had a mistress, because if *he* were married to her, he would have had several.
