https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294354.No_Thanks
"to hell with literaturewe want something red-blooded"lousy with purereeking with starkand fearlessly obscene."- E.E. Cummings, No ThanksNo Thanksi fall &upon these tease versemost days downs upsung whys? not worse!we lose &findwords made (opaquedreams) dizzy mindjoyceIS aWAKE.chagall piSS paintSjazz all must playdayS iS&aintSjizz SeekShis lay.words MESSis made& founds againnight's meter strayedmOOn's madeleine.
No Thanks is so-named because, according to the introduction, Cummings struggled to find a publisher for his book of poems. Although he had already published five volumes of poetry (including  is 5 ), a play ( Him ), a collection of artwork, and works of prose (including  The Enormous Room ), American publishers were "floundering in the slough of the Great Depression"... The declaration of "No Thanks" which Cummings placed at the beginning of the book lists the publishers who turned him down - t
No Thanks is so-named because, according to the introduction, Cummings struggled to find a publisher for his book of poems.
I wish I could appreciate this more. There were sparks of brilliance, but no connections... none to me, at least. Poetry is a language in itself, and it turns out not everyone speaks it the same way.
Our view of the world and the way we express our beliefs about it translate remarkably well into deep and beautiful art.Alternatively, art also works well as criticism.
As with many great works of art, Cummings’ connection to his belief system provides fertile ground for art.
i think iunderstand why som.a"n%ydidn#t wàñ++0 publishthisb o 0 kkkkkkkkIf you found the above annoying and pointless, dont bother reading this book. Similar feelings will result.

There are a handful of gems in this collection of poems. For the most part the poetry reads more like an annoying cryptic message than a piece of art. Referencing all the publishers that denied him publication is strange to me. Rejection should be an expectation for writers. His focus on Random House and other publications - although brief - is unnecessary.
This collection was okay. I didn’t like it as much as other Cummings poetry that I’ve read, but there were a few that I really enjoyed.
People have jokingly told me to read e e cummings, but I have stayed away from poetry in the past years much for the same reasons that I have stayed away from impressionistic art.
damn you all who weren't serious when you told me to check him out!
I think this book will stay in my bag for a while, as each poem can be read a dozen, or a hundred times over with a different effect each time.I really, really enjoyed my first pass at e e cummings, and would love any recommendation anyone can make along these lines.
"E.E. Cummings wrote a book of poems that was turned down by 14 publishers. He finally published it under the title "No Thanks." The dedication was a list of all the publishers who had rejected it, arranged in the shape of a funeral urn."http://mentalfloss.com/sites/default/...
I don't know if I'm dumb, or if Cummings is just a bunch of BS, but either way, his work is way over my head...or under it. I don't know which. I do like his grasshopper poem though. and mOOn Over tOwns mOOn. and the silent night poem, but I had to have help understanding it. The rest has some good stuff in it, but I need a lot of help understanding it.
Three stars is less a reflection of the book than of my inability to understand many of the poems therein. There are many challenging works here, but even still, wonderful lines stand out: "to have tasted Beautiful to have known Only to have smelled Happens". Difficult as this book often was, I'm happy to say it did not put me off exploring more Cummings.
In my eyes, one of the greats. Love the list in the front where he says "No thanks" to all those publishers who refused him. Many current issues emerge from the poetry here even though it is decades since publication. Who cannot weep over "I Sing of Olaf"? Try alternating a poem from this book with one from "Field Work." Lovely comparisons.
I love Cummings. I picked this book up for some of his more experimental poetry and fell in love. Some favorites are "here's to opening and upwards" and "o pr-". I go back and reread the poetry in this book frequently.
Favorites:that which we who're alive in spite of mirrorsmay i feel said heo sure)but nobody unders(nomove deeply,rain (dream hugely)wishsometimes in)Spring a someone will lie(gluedmuch I cannot) tear up the world:& tosslove's a function is to fabricate unknownness
Very difficult for me to read many of these poems because of his unusual formatting and writing style. However, there were a few gems in here - 'the boys I mean are not refined' was my favorite poem in this book.
i would be in love with cummings if he wasn't such a weirdo.AND i did a presentation with another goodreads friend in 10th grade on this book. it was very "intellectual..." and it was a film. with interspersed poetry readings.
Incredible poems.
It's EE Cummings. It's fricking brilliant.
As his works become less comprehensible, I enjoy them less. Too many of these poems are beyond my ability to decipher. There were a few peaks of joy amid the muddy slog.
Bizarre and uncompromising.
Decent. I still can't tell whether I love or hate his writing. Most of it is crap, and then there are just stretches of pure genius and beauty, it's unreal.
iTs 0k t0 wRite lllike thi5 iF u r az fam0us as eE.cummingZ
