https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/29367958-the-wall-of-winnipeg-and-me
But after reading this one I am officially so fucking #TeamZapata #TeamAiden #TeamMuscledHunkofSexyManMeat #RidiculousInstagram-likeParagraphofIdioticHastags that I'm going to make up my own nationally organized sport league (cause you know NFL...NFO...who even cares) activity I shall hereafter refer to as......drum roll please...STEALTH CHASEOr perhaps...But we don't let felonies get us down here at the Stealth Chase Organization.And at least in prison we could have unlimited Zapata reading time.
I remember reading a scene where Aiden is holding Vanessa in his lap and the way Zapata wrote about how his arms hung over her thighs and his hands wrapped around her knees had me fucking enthralled.
It's almost like you have to earn it in Zapata's books.
5 'Team Graves' Stars! The Wall of Winnipeg and Me was a seriously addictive slow burn romance. Once I started the audio, I couldn’t stop listening. It was over 16 hours long, but I finished it within 48 hours. There was nothing about this book I didn’t love! Vanessa Mazur has worked for pro football player, Aiden Graves for 2 years. Aides is quiet, curt, and drives Vanessa crazy. She’s his assistant, but she wants more than that. So, she decides to quit and follow her real passion. Aides is a b
The Wall of Winnipeg and Me was a seriously addictive slow burn romance.
There was nothing about this book I didn’t love!
Vanessa Mazur has worked for pro football player, Aiden Graves for 2 years.
When he shows up at her door weeks after she quit, Vanessa is in shock.
The story between Aiden and Vanessa had such a great and natural flow.
When Aiden showed up at a certain convention to support Vanessa, I had a perma-grin and happy tears!
A for sure favorite of mine this year, The Wall of Winnipeg and Me is one you don’t want to miss out on!
Let's start with the good news, shall we?The theme.
I learned from other reviews that this would be a slow burn romance so I went into this book completely prepared.
I believe that a slow build-up is what usually makes a romance good.
So if you like love-at-first-sight books or books where the heroine jumps into bed with the hero seconds after meeting him, then this book is not for you.Now...
Don't get me wrong, this book is very well written and there were many funny parts which had me cracking up BUT there was too much repetition and internal monologue for my liking.
Of course, this comes as a complete surprise to Aiden who had never bothered to get to know Vanessa.
All he needs to secure his citizenship is a wife -- and we all know who he has in mind.What starts out as a tenuous work contract between Aiden and Vanessa soon morphs into more.
Once Vanessa brings it to his attention, he really works at being a better person and treating her well.
I fell in love with Aiden right along with Vanessa.
5 "TEAM GRAVES" STARSIn the same vein as her hit book Kulti, Mariana Zapata delivers a SLOW BURN story of a personal assistant, Vanessa Mazur who has finally saved enough over the two years of working for the NFO’s best defenseman, Aiden “The Wall of Winnipeg” Graves to quit.
Throughout her two years of working for Aiden, he doesn’t even return a hello or appreciate her in slightest.
Aiden’s a man of few words but just like with the book Kulti, the story comes together in the end!!
This one just really hit the spot for me. Great characters, slow burn romance, funny interactions, and when the heat finally hits, it's delicious. I read straight through the night and have thought about Aidan all day.
Five words can sum up this book for me… “Ovaries. Where are my ovaries?” – Vanessa Usually, when a book is recommended to me and a lot of people seem to love it, 95% of the time I’m like the black sheep of the group, the one who doesn’t understand the hype. So I was a little reluctant to try this one out. But I am so freaking happy to say I loved this and completely get why it has been all over my Instagram and Goodreads feed and recommended multiple times.I’m usually not a fan of slow burning b
But I am so freaking happy to say I loved this and completely get why it has been all over my Instagram and Goodreads feed and recommended multiple times.I’m usually not a fan of slow burning books.
Mainly because the “twist” in here drives the plot and I loved where it took the story and was glad I didn’t know beforehand.Vanessa was a hysterical spitfire, and Aiden was like this huge, sometimes (ok – always) grumpy teddy bear you just want to hug.
I really enjoyed this slow burn romance. And it was a SLOW burn, but the payoff was perfect - I constantly had a cheesy grin on my face. The characters, the story, it was all simply wonderful.
Fuck, there is so much I want to fucking say but I can't find the bloody words!!I normally have verbal diarrhoea when it comes to my reviews but this fucker has left me speechless.This story not only consumed my whole life from start to finish but also made it into my all-time favourite books list and let me tell you that's a tough list to get on.I laughed.
A.W.E.S.O.M.E  I didn't sleep much last night, but it was worth it...Aiden Graves the so-called:The Wall of W…willfulI… impressiveN… not-openN… noteworthyI… irresistibleP… plant-eaterE… enormousG… grumpyThe “You say it best when you say nothing at all” kind of guy. I loved him!Vanessa Mazur, the girl who makes most of the noise when she is thinking and overanalyzing things. I felt for her. I really did.It was not easy to be assistant/housekeeper/fairy godmother/ mother/ vegan cook/errandgirl/ p
I really did.It was not easy to be assistant/housekeeper/fairy godmother/ mother/ vegan cook/errandgirl/ photographer/social media keeper to the top defensive end in the National Football Organization.
And Vanny can finally wake up late, breath freely, starts training for the marathon, does her dream job without interruptions, starts dating etc.And all these last for about a month, until Aiden bulldozes himself back to Vanny’s life and demands that she becomes again his assistant/housekeeper/fairy godmother/ mother/ vegan cook/errandgirl/ photographer/social media keeper.
Mostly in the story Vanni talks too much and thinks too hard and Aiden growls.
YES!
Loved this one!
Two things got me to read this book: 1) I received a tweet from my best friend Sara telling me that said she had read this book and I needed to read it.
The last time she said that to me was for a book I had passed over because the cover didn’t catch my eye.
The original cover of 'The Hook Up' didn’t do it for me.
Luckily, she told me to read it because it became one of my favorite reads of 2014.
2) Book Babes Unite had a giveaway offering 3 of Ms. Zapata’s books.
The last time she said that to me was for a book I had passed over because the cover didn’t catch my eye.
I was beyond excited to win because Reanell from BBU told me how great these books are and to expect a slow burn romance.
I wasn't sure if I could find the time to read a book that size.
Reanell from BBU was right that this story delivers a slow burn romance.
One of my favorite aspects of the story is how the slow burn didn’t affect my enjoyment of the love story.
Re-read April 2017➦Well, surprisingly, I loved this book even more the second time around.
➦If you love sports romances then this book is a must read!
MUST READ!Original Review:❤Loved it, loved it, loved it!❤➦I think it was a first sports romance I've read that showed how dedicated the athletes really are.
Football is Aiden's life, his only true love.
I loved "watching" Aiden take baby steps and learning how to be in a relationship.
That's Aiden.
➦This book is very slow paced and it almost felt like I was living their life with them.
Mariana Zapata takes her time developing the characters and evolving their relationship.
Loved it all *proceeds gushing*
5 Big Guy StarsI don’t even know where to start with this review. The tale of Vanessa and Aiden snuck up on me and for that I’m forever grateful. “You can’t live your life bottling everything up. You need people, even if it’s only one or two, to believe in you, and as smart as that boy is, he doesn’t understand that.” The slowish start to this story has Vanessa working as an assistant to Aiden’s pro football playing self, a job she’s only mildly tolerating. Aiden only appears to mildly tolerate
The slowish start to this story has Vanessa working as an assistant to Aiden’s pro football playing self, a job she’s only mildly tolerating.
Maybe the obvious humor suits my book laziness, but there you go.That’s not this story.That’s not this story in the best way.This story wasn’t a love story at all until it just was.
This is going to sound cheesy as hell so for those of you not down with that?Gird your loins!At the end of this read, I actually felt a wee bit honored to have gotten to experience the slow burning love between Aiden and Van. Kind of like a creepy voyeurs with permission.
There is so much, it is hard to know where to start without giving you the story...What I will do is tell you my impressions of what I felt was so important while reading this...You have two people who would seem opposites in how they have lived...but I saw so many things which tied them together...Their determination to better themselves, the stubborn streak of not wanting to say sorry or admit error and then the never quitting...
And it is the little things which bring these feelings of overwhelming joy....just like in real life.The other factors in this story have to do with eliminating toxic people from your life.
Emotional, sweet and real. Enjoyed this so much!!
FEEL THE BURNSlow burn. So good. Didn't want it to end. What a romance! I feel like I could watch more football now, I've researched it so much from this book.
If you're looking for a super sexy read?
Here you will find a very slow simmer.
Very slow indeed.
I won't lie and say I loved it all, but I will say that she had an interesting voice.
She can be pretty hilarious at times, too.
The hero, Aidan, is kind of (or maybe a lotta bit) a douche at first but the characterization is pretty amazing because his transformation goes so subtly that you find it realistic.
I don't want to give away too much of the plot but I'll say that there's plenty going on to keep you interested.
I like you as much as I like anyone. I can't even.
There's just something about the strong, silent type that draws me in and melts my heart.
Aiden is that kind of guy.
This physically intimidating 'wall' of a man has a stubbornness about him that made me want to kick him in the nads - hard - and a vulnerability about him that, at times, made me want to weep and to bring him home and love him until neither of us remembered that a world outside of ourselves existed.So, so good!I might write a more in depth review later, or I might not, but I will be rereading this again and again.
She has truly brought out all the very best elements of a sports romance to keep the readers engaged.The Wall of Winnipeg and Me is a hate-to-love story between the characters Vanessa Mazur and the NFO Defensive Player of the Year Aiden Graves.
Aiden is the type of man who doesn't like to talk or even give a damn about her so after she quit her job, she was surprised when he came into her house, asking her to come back and even propose to her a marriage of convenience.I'm an avid fan of sports romance so this wasn't difficult to love.
May 19, 2016 I loved the first 3 chapters and anticipated a swift escalation of Aiden and Vanessa's relationship but in the end, I gave up and chose to not finish the book.I will say that I did not like Vanessa AT ALL because she seemed angry perpetually, and her introspections were exasperating. Moreover, she goes from taking care of Aiden 24/7 to not caring if he had a decent meal and he, from a guy who needed sheets changed thrice weekly to not being bothered? These facts bugged me but ultim
I loved the first 3 chapters and anticipated a swift escalation of Aiden and Vanessa's relationship but in the end, I gave up and chose to not finish the book.I will say that I did not like Vanessa AT ALL because she seemed angry perpetually, and her introspections were exasperating.
I may eventually finish the book but really, with so many books to read, I just couldn't be bothered.
Yay, I persevered and I'm quite glad I did because the last 20% makes up for the preceding chapters.
It also makes their love and HEA much more believable.
5 'Wall of Winnipeg' Stars...  An amazing, beautiful, scintillating and unforgettable love story which will hold your heart captive forever...  Vanessa Mazur is the personal assistant/housekeeper for the top defensive end of National Football Organisation, Aiden Graves. After working for him for two years she feels it's high time that she quits her job to follow her dream. But when Aiden wants her to come back and work for him, she is shocked beyond words that the man dubbed 'The Wall of Winnip
An amazing, beautiful, scintillating and unforgettable love story which will hold your heart captive forever...
The way she brings about two characters and how she makes them fall in love is absolutely beautiful and riveting to read..!!
Initially I really did not like Aiden and the kind of person he was portrayed as, but throughout the book the author revealed so many different facets of his personality that I could not help but fall in love with him.
Aiden opened himself up slowly to Vanessa and the result was beautiful.
It takes its time, it gives us the time to watch Aiden & Vanessa build something simply amazing.
This book is an intense slow burn read, packed full of hair pulling and nail biting.
I was cussing Aiden frequently and kicking Vanessa throughout most of this book.
So for those of you that are quite slow, like me, and haven't had a friend push you (thankfully I did) come here my dear GR friends In the end you are gifted with the greatest love story.
So my dear friends, if you haven't read this one yet, you SHOULD!!
Scratch four, this deserve five stars. Third reading and nothing has changed. Magic is intact and if possible I am in love with this story more than ever.  "Yeah, my throat and tongue thought they were the Sahara. My eyes on the other hand wanted to be the Amazon. I didn't even realized I needed to sniffle until I did it. As much as I'd been telling myself over the last two days that I'd imagined being a wee bit in love with him, my heart held on to the truth. I hated it, but I was. I recognized
Scratch four, this deserve five stars.
Third reading and nothing has changed.
Magic is intact and if possible I am in love with this story more than ever.
"Yeah, my throat and tongue thought they were the Sahara.
As much as I'd been telling myself over the last two days that I'd imagined being a wee bit in love with him, my heart held on to the truth.
I was falling, if not more than a little, in love with Aiden."
My feelings exactly after reading the last sentence of this book.
Just replace that little with completely in above lines.
3.5 stars.I liked it but I didn't love it. Maybe my expectations were way too high as Kulti was one of my favourite reads from last year.I know her books are a slow burn but this one was a bit too slow. I sort of felt their relationship didn't develop that much throughout the book and some parts of the book felt repetitive. "I like you as much as I like anyone."  "We're partners. We're a team. You said it."  "I'm starting to understand that you can always make time for the things that matter." O

That is how much I love this book.Vanessa Mazur has been the assistant of The Three Hundreds' defensive end, Aiden "The Wall of Winnipeg" Graves, for the last two years, and is now ready to open a new chapter in her life—she's saved up enough for a rainy day (or year) and wants to focus on her passion/career.
When Winnie first started, Aiden was such an asshole in the 'I don't care about what others think, I only care about football' kind of way, and although his focus and determination is admirable, it pissed me off that he seemed to be genuinely indifferent when it comes to Vanessa.
The way it does it is through Vanessa’s eyes, and I’ll admit - You get to really know her, and I’ve got a bit of a girlcrush on her right now.I love Vanessa: She is what I expect in a Zapata heroine - she’s self-reliant, self-aware, never perfect but always entertaining.
Between Aiden and her other athlete hero, Reiner Kulti, I think she’s drawn two interesting heroes that are perfect matches for their heroines.Slow burn worth every single moment: This story takes its time to unfold, and it’s not a quick read by any means, so be prepared to settle in and immerse yourself in their lives.
Having Vanessa as his assistant makes his life easier but unfortunately, for him, he doesn’t realise her value until she’s had enough and resigns.What follows for Vanessa and Aiden is a parting of ways for a very short time.
A role where they will have to make vows of commitment, live together and share their lives…on paper only.I really enjoyed the story and loved the way the characters developed.
I did think that Aiden acted like a douchewaffle in the beginning but enjoyed seeing him realise that there is more to life than solely focusing on football.
LOVE LOVE LOVED IT!!! Can you believe it had running in it and I still loved it???? :P
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “You really want to play this game?”“I play games for a living, Van.” When Shelby told me she was reading (and enjoying) this a week or so ago I didn’t give it much thought. After all, I had an alright time with this author myself with Lingus. I had no choice but to read The Wall of Winnipeg and Me when it was shoved in my face so kindly lent to me by my book bestie via the Kindle. I woke up to discover my favorite kind of Saturday mo
When Vanessa decided to quit in order to pursue her own dreams and Aidan showed up at her doorstep to confess that he “needed” her I thought for sure things were going to get nice and splooshy.
Aidan did not become lovey dovey thanks to a magic vagina, Vanessa didn’t have a bunch of drama llama that could only be cured by a magic peen, the page count wasn’t a lie and the big shebang didn’t happen until the NINETY-SEVEN PERCENT marker (which absolutely resulted in the female equivalent of blue balls – what would that be called?
