https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5359.The_Client
Great read! a riveting storyline consisting of some great characters with different personalities...this is what most readers expect from Mr.Grisham when one of his book is release,good storytelling and great writing...recommend to everyone (paperback!)

داستان درباره «مایک» پسرکی یازده ساله، و برادرش «ریکی» است که ناخواسته شاهد خودکشی مردی در علفزارهای کنار خانه خویش هستند، «مایک» به دلیل شرایط سخت زندگی، خود را پشتیبان مادر، و برادر کوچکترش میداند، او برای نجات مرد نیز سعی میکند، اما، گیر میافتد.
مرد از راز قتل یکی از سناتورهای امریکایی، توسط موکل خویش پرده برمیدارد، و به «مایک» میگوید: موکلش جنازه آن سناتور را، که کل ایالت به دنبالش هستند، زیر پارکینگ خانه او، دفن کرده است!
Grisham has a way of writing a real page-turner.
The suspense was intense, and the story was good.When I finished the last page, and I finally did put it down, I couldn't help thinking I had just wasted my time.
I've read 4 Grisham novels...
sometimes I just want to be entertained, I guess.
This is probably one of Grisham's weaker books, but I'm not that good of a judge.
If you want 2 hours of great entertainment, watch the movie.
If you want more than that, read the book.
Then, you can write a story about it.
I read this before the move was made. This the perfect example of how very much American laws & justices system is so different from British law special with children.This an excellent crime court room drama that only Grisham could write as he was trained court lawyer which is needed to get the facts dead right. After all you need how to crack eggs to make an omelette you would not expect a bricklayer to try to make a swimming pool on upstairs flat.This like all his books twists & turns like top in hands of a master spinner.
The book tells of a boy who happens upon a mob lawyer who commits suicide.
I could not get over the fact that the kid could have avoided the whole suspense by telling the FBI the truth about the body of the Senator.
Also, his lawyer could have advised him to tell the FBI so the kid would be in WPP instead of a possible target of the mafia.
It all started when Mark Sway (11) took his younger brother Ricky (8) in a secluded part of a park to teach him how to smoke. They were just doing their business when a shiny car arrived and apparently the driver was trying to kill himself and did so by the end. Suddenly Mark along with his brother(who suffers a trauma) became witnesses of not only a suicide of a well-known lawyer, but Mark knows more than that. This is a story of an 11-year old boy caught up in a legal drama too big for himsel
It all started when Mark Sway (11) took his younger brother Ricky (8) in a secluded part of a park to teach him how to smoke.
His 52-year old lawyer, Reggie Loves, will do everything to ensure Mark and his family is safe and that he's not being denied with all his rights.
But interesting things happened very early in the book that I can say Grisham doesn't waste his time or mine, and pages.
He got on with the juicy parts so early.But like I said, this book isn't perfect.It's the plot.
And I think Mark is top of the reasons why I fell in love with this book before.

This was just what I wanted, a quick read, some action and a good fast paced storyline. So what if the hero was a 10 year old boy, I enjoyed it! My attention was held throughout, which is my sign of a good read, and the main characters were all likeable. Mark and Reggie were loveable in their own ways, and it was fun seeing the youngster outsmart the thugs and the FBI. I highly recommend this book if you're after an easy read.
The Law, the Mob, a murder - and the mind of an eleven year old child...Mark Sway and his younger brother Ricky set off to a secret location to sneak a quick smoke.
They hear noises and realise they aren't alone.
The two young boys watch in horror as they realise what is happening.
Mark seems to be in a position where telling the truth would place him in serious danger.
However, the Bible tells us; "Be sure your sin will find you out." Mark could've told the truth then trusted God to protect him.
Regardless, all truth will be revealed one day and God will be the Judge.This was readable if a little long...
I like every book that Grisham wrote, period. This story is about a crazy, just horrible dilemma. Didn't like the movie…but hey, movies are almost always worse than a book, because they cut out a lot of stuff, they change the story plus, you don't have your own imagination portrayed in a movie.
The solution to the dilemma of little Mark -- who possesses the secret of where the Senator's body is buried -- was so overwhelmingly clear within the first 100 pages that each successive machination of Reggie's, each attempt to protect and shield him variously from the mob, the FBI, and the evil Republican prosecutor, became more and more frustrating (but funnier) as the book wore on.
All you have to do is make an anonymous phone call to the FBI (or the New Orleans police, or the Attorney General's office, or all three), and tell them where the body is buried.
The Client is about an eleven year old named Mark Sway and his little brother Ricky witnessing a suicide. Before the man killed himself he told Mark information about a murder case that was being looked at. Marks brother goes into shock from the suicide and he has to stay in the hospital for a while. Mark does not know if he should tell the FBI the information he received or not because he is scared for his family’s lives and his own. The Client takes place in a small town in Memphis. Mark is a
Mark does not know if he should tell the FBI the information he received or not because he is scared for his family’s lives and his own.
Mark has to decide if he wants to tell the FBI his story or to keep it to himself so he can maybe save his life and the lives of the people around him.One of the Strengths of the writing in this book was that it was always something that you would want to keep reading, it was also a book that you can read quickly.
I've got the film of this on VHS, but it was only recently that I read the book. is my favourite John Grisham book so far, and instead of just the usual legal thriller, an unexpected kid is caught up in the mystery of a shocking crime.
Gentlemen, the pain is here." -Reggie Love, The Client At first, I wasn't quite attached to this book because the first few chapters are kind of dull but, when I reached Chapter 3 (probably the chapter where the story begins to unfold) it gets more and more thrilling!
It got me on the edge of my seat!Also , I loved the characters, first the protagonist, an eleven-year-old boy named Mark Sway, he's very clever.
Love it!
And of course the lawyer, Reggie Love, also smart and bad ass ;)
My Rating: 1/5Everyone recommended John Grisham. So I bought The Client. The reviews for the books have been mostly positive. So I thought that this is a good read but It isn't. I couldn't go more that four chapters of the book. I tried again and again but It's just not good, So you know.....So, This is a bad book. I won't recommend it to anybody. Thank you.
I'm usually a fan of John Grisham books but this was kind of a bore. Its based around an 11 year old boy who acts, thinks, and speaks as if he is a 30 something year old man. Is it just me or did some readers also get frustrated towards the end of the book?
After a very long time, I read a crime-suspense novel. It didn't meet my expectations. I think the plot is over-streched and taking an eleven year old boy as a smart hero who got all his talent by watching movies seems somewhat unbelievable. The author could take a teenager on his place. The end of the novel makes you fool asking the question, "why did I waste so much time?"
I don't know why once in a year i crave for John Grisham may be because i started reading The Firm as first book, but couldn't complete due to some lame excuses or reasons.
By 30 pages you will find it very difficult to put down.It is tale of a 11 year old boy Mark Sway who met a mob lawyer who was about to commit suicide.
Fearing reprisal by the mob or the FBI for lying, he hires a lawyer Reggie Love to get him out of this mess.
Another thrilling ride from Grisham. I had a hard time putting this book down. The story just became more wild as it progressed!
I really like this movie and watched it before I'd ever read the book.
I don't know that I'll read it again ever though because I did like the movie better this time around.
From the book, I liked that Dianne and Reggie seem to have a better relationship.
Sometimes the sex junk-- totally irrelevant to the story-- annoys me a lot and this time it did especially.
So, like the story and really like Mark, Reggie, and Dianne, but it will be a long time before I read it again.
This was my very first book that I've read by John Grisham, and I absolutely loved it, I really like his writing style and the book just really seems to drag you right into the story.
I had never heard of Grisham until I had seen the movie The Client with Susan Sarandon and Tommy Lee Jones, and I've watched the movie several times, and my mom told me that the movie was based on a novel by John Grisham and she said he writes courtroom dramas.
A real page turner.
I clearly remember the scene in Black Hawk Down, that soldier(forgotten the name and the actor's name, Tom Hardy maybe), he popped into chopper cabin, holding this book, a paperback edition with the coverThis scene engraved in my mind more than the Joel Schumacher film didThat soldier was one of the 18 casualties :(
The youtube audio is incomplete...don't waste your time. The recording is missing roughly three hours of the novel. What I read is vintage Grisham, gotta find another version. Feel like I lost a pet.
so one day they decide to go in the forest and later seems to find something that they couldnt believe .
as the look to see who it is the man that is trying to kill him self see them and catches one of the brothers and stick him in the car with him so that he doesn't die alone.
therefore thru out the suicide he manages to escape with the man killing him self and the brothers free.
until years later the case that they once were in are now possibly responsible for the death.
A story I followed breathlessly from page one until I remembered that I was supposed to figure out its plot and all that jazz. I forgot. I got sucked in. I don't remember the last time I was so engrossed. An eleven-year old kid against lawyers and FBI and mafia. And one very dead body hidden in a secret place. And everyone trying to find the body. And the kid and the killer the only ones who know where it's at. What's not to like? One of those books you want to swallow in one sitting.
this is the book that made me not read any more of his books. It's like he woke up one morning and said, I'm done. He left countless threads unraveled. He dropped ideas. the ending was unbelievable and abrupt. All in all what could have been an amazing book was such a disappointment that it made me avoid him because I was so angry he wasted my time.
Love Grisham's early work especially. Characterization is always uppermost in my mind and he does a great job. Read it awhile back and then took it on vacation again to read. That is my highest endorsement.
I had seen the movie years ago so I had a general idea about the book. The book is so much better than the movies. The book goes into so much more detail. It's so life like with the Mob element and how devious the goverment is when trying to pursue their agenda.
I could not get into this one. I didn't care about the characters and it just seemed cheesy.
