https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77711.A_Fire_Upon_the_Deep
Program recommendation: Imagine this post being read in a tone of self-satisfied ironic detachment]Subject: Books to talk about with my wife when she can't fall asleepDistribution:Space Opera, WorthwhileNeat AliensBigNerds Special Interest GroupDate: 4.5 days before the Fall of BookSwapKey phrases: Mind-Bending Galactic Scope, Smooth World-Building, Bogs Down in the Middle, Characters are kind of flat, Telepathic puppy aliensText of message: Space is really, really, really big.
My computer's calculator started showing me letters when I tried to figure out how many Earths would fit inside VY Canis Majoris.These incomprehensibly massive objects are just pinpricks in the overall vastness of space.
Please read the following sentence twice:This is an absolutely fantastic book.On the outskirts of the Galaxy, far from the physical constraints of the Galactic core, faster-than-light travel is possible, and Transcended intelligences flourish to a complexity that dwarfs human comprehension.
But the aliens' low-tech society is promptly and drastically destabilised by the humans' technology, leaving the children struggling for survival while a rescue mission tears across the galaxy towards them, harried and pursued by everything the Blight can throw on their trail.This book has everything.
And for a Transcended being whose intelligence is to humans as humans are to microbes, the Blight seems remarkably...
I admire the author's creation and the writing is decent if not riveting.I enjoyed the story of the Tines, aliens with pack minds, and I came to like the concept of the "zones of thought", where different levels of technology are possible in different areas of the galaxy.But I found myself indifferent to the rest of the characters.
The enemy they called the Blight seemed ominous only in the prologue - for the rest of the book it was kept at such a distance that I never felt truly worried about it.
I'm already having trouble remembering why it took so many pages to tell this story.
It's a long, sprawling story and the technological parts are rather dated, but I still loved it.A group of scientists investigating a five billion year old data archive accidentally unleashes the Blight, a malignant superintelligence that rapidly learns how to infiltrate and control computer systems and even living species.
Meanwhile, others are racing the Blight through space to get to the Tines' planet to find out if the stranded ship really holds the key to stopping the Blight.Really, it's impossible to describe this complex, thought-provoking book in a way that does it justice.
However, seeing that Vinge is a scientist I did not expect much from this book, some cool, believable sf concepts at the most.
The book did not start well for me with silly names like "Wickwrackrum" popping up and a confusing first chapter.
However, once I begin to follow the book (about 30 pages in) Vinge really surprised me with his talented authorship.
The Tines are some of the most imaginative aliens I have ever read about, the details of their biology and culture are beautifully worked out; yet Vinge has managed to imbue these creatures with personalities.
children on the run. alien dogs that think as a group. power in numbers! powerful book. good dogs. although some bad dogs too. I guess fanatical is a bad personality trait, even for dogs.different flavors: adventure, medieval fantasy, comedy, hard science fiction, even horror. big ideas.thoughtful, exciting, highly original. fantastic book.
Sooo, I know this is a seminal classic of the Space Opera genre, so the fact I didn't LOVE it as much as everyone said I would makes me feel a bit inadequate in a way, but hey, everyone is entitled to their opinions, eh?
I mean, from an intellectual standpoint, this is brilliant.
The world-building is so convincing, I actually was frequently disturbed by it, which is kinda why I can't love it, which is actually a testament to it's brilliance.
I mean, the detail is STAGGERING.I guess the only thing that I didn't enjoy was the fact that the aliens were so animal-like.
Yeah, period.Why "A Fire Upon the Deep" is Utter GeniusIf you have ever lamented that books rarely seem to be bold, intensive explorations of idea spaces; if you have ever longed for a great tome that makes you rethink what was possible in literature on every single one of its 600+ pages; or if you love novels in which the author demonstrates the fun he/she had writing it through their word selection, choice of presentation, and manipulation of language - stop reading this review right now, go savor the experience of "A Fire Upon the Deep", and then name any children you bear from that point forward either Vernor or Vernina.
Think of it like a deep ocean - with humans in ships on the surface, lots of interesting life in the shallow seas, and weird things hidden in the depths.Earth is deep in the slow-zone.
Some skroderider plant aliens, a human woman and a human man who's been reconstructed from frozen human spare-parts by a Good Power are on a mission to travel from the high beyond all the way to the edge of the slow zone to grab the Great Hope.
Not so.As other reviewers pointed out, this book has some great ideas.
Human characters are predictable to the point of being boring, and their motivations serve the plot more than any sort of coherence.
Most of the story happens either among 5-6 individuals on the Tine world, or within the closed confines of the ship, and neither progress at a pace that would be satisfying.There are some great ideas in this book, but they're buried under a nonsensical plot that fails to impress.
Phan Newen is far from being interesting enough a character to make me pick it up.
When Relay intercepts a distress signal from the escaped ship of Jefri and Johanna, this draws the attention of one of the Powers from the Transcend dubbed “Old One”.
Ravna tracks the distress signal to Tine, and the “Old One” recreates an ancient human named Phan Nuwen to find a way to defeat the Blight.
A third book called The Children of the Sky came out in 2011 and continues the story of Ravna on Tine, but the reviews I’ve read are fairly negative, so I am reluctant to try it.
One of my favorite Hard SF novels of all-time. It's brilliant and you should definitely read it.
We begin with the destruction of the expedition, the few survivors fleeing down the galaxy to the very edge of the slowness with something that just might be able to save everyone.
The book plays with ideas of sentience, of communication, of information systems.
The awakened power begins to absorb civilizations by the hundreds above, and far below the survivors are caught up in the political struggles of primitive, doglike, group-minded aliens.My reactions to this book went something like this:Pp 1-200: Wow, that’s fabulous world building.
Executive Summary: This book started out pretty strong for me, but lost steam as I went on.
I liked it, but not as much as I hoped.
Full Review My reading of this book was pretty uneven.
Then I read another 25% on a plane and several more days with no reading.
Then I read another 25% on a plane and several more days with no reading.
After that it was a chapter or two here or there stretching the whole thing out over 2+ weeks.
It's not a short book, but it was obvious to me as I went on that I was losing s
Executive Summary: This book started out pretty strong for me, but lost steam as I went on.
My reading of this book was pretty uneven.
They were probably the most interesting part as they were unlike anything else I've read/watched before.I struggled with the start a bit, because I didn't really know what was going on, but that got better as the book went on.
I was able to follow the story fine if I didn't let myself get too caught up in little details of the world Mr. Vinge created.By the end though, I was more interested in finishing to see how things worked out rather than being excited to learn what happens next.
I guess that this is classic "hard SF", in the sense of being all ideas and not so much on the characterization.
And maybe I've just passed the time in my life when that really excites me.
But overall, it just didn't grab me.The notion of the zones of thought was interesting, albeit a real stretch to me.
The tines were a kind-of interesting construction, though mass minds have been done before.
And, for whatever reason, their story line just felt tedious to me.
1990.Overall, some of the ideas were interesting, some much less so, but the story and the characters just didn't excite me.
Zones of thought dictating space time, transcendent Power turned Perversion turned Blight, a benevolent vegetable race in long-term memory carts, a burning space station firefight, an epic chase at fluctuating speeds of light, medieval, pack minded, seal-rat-dog people and a seemingly classic struggle between good and evil.
Some actions and characters riveted me, and others were like entering Vinge’s own Slowness -- a slip from light speed to a shocking crawl.The moments in light speed dominated A Fire Upon the Deep, however, and perhaps the finest moment was the completion of the OOB II’s action against the Blight.
I had high hopes for Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon the Deep because I love sci-fi set in space but, while it might make a decent fantasy novel, it is a poor excuse for science fiction.The novel takes place in Vinge's "Zones of Thought" universe in which the galaxy is separated into discrete zones, each of which is identified by its relative location to the galactic core and its ability to support advanced technology and faster-than-light travel.
I think the Tines are Vinge's most interesting creation for this novel.
The first third of this book is some of the best science-fiction I have ever read: good writing, fast pace, some breathtaking action, excellent balance between narrative and explanation, and some really, REALLY cool ideas thoroughly thought-out and implemented.
Vinge is also pretty skilled at keeping the vast hard-sci-fi-space-opera scope of the book fascinating, but not letting that complexity overwhelm the characters or plot.Unfortunately, the pace in the middle of the book flags somewhat and the writing falters there a bit too, chunks of exposition becoming more prominent.
So while you can have anti-gravity and super-intelligent AI in the outer rim, the deeper you go toward the center of the galaxy the less reliable those things become until they quickly stop working.At first this seems like a pure Fantasy element in an otherwise solidly science fictional universe, but then Vinge reveals that this story takes place tens of thousands of years from now among civilizations which are millions or billions of years old, and basically what we're seeing is an entire galaxy that is living in a post-Singularity time.
Vernor Vinge has become one of my favorite science fiction authors with this amazing novel. Filled with big, huge ideas and amazing technology. Plus the aliens are awesome. The alien Tines were so original and amazingly described that I was in heaven reading about them. I loved this from beginning to end. Make sure you read this slowly or you might miss a handful of neat ideas.
Dok se ja popnem uz stepenice dobijem sede u kosi, ali sada imam mačje oči i puzim mnogo dobro.Elem, kada prodje prvih stotinak stranica gde gledam za koju (nauljenu) kvaku mogu da se uhvatim, ovde se mogu naći sledeće stvari: originalni vanzemaljci (rasa suštinski biljaka iz saksije je poseban favorit; ali i čoporska kolektivna svest pasa zatečenih u srednjem veku), razradjeni, stvarni likovi (iz mog iskustva nešto vrlo retko u sf-u – čak i u Enderu koji tu još i stoji nekako na nogama svi pate od nekog prolaznog i antipatičnog veltšmerca), inteligentna i zanimljiva intepretacija „problema inteligentnih vrsti“ (zašto ih još nismo našli) i tehnološkog singulariteta (kako ćemo najebati), ali i sasvim ljudskog beznadja i borbe protiv istog.
4.5 stars.
It has one of the single coolest alien species I've ever seen and the story is really great.
There are two groups of aliens, falling generally into "good guys" and "bad guys".
The world is a medieval setting and it's interesting to see how each of the groups benefits from contact with one of the surviving humans.My one objection to the book is that both of the kids, who are aged 8-9 and 12-13 over the course of the book, are written in a simplistic style that is best suited to a 6 year old.
This is one of the weirdest books I've ever read. It was amazingly creative and clever, and is easily one of the best sci-fi books I've ever laid hands on. The only problem is that it is written in such an extreme third-person viewpoint that people not experienced with sci-fi material will have trouble understanding what is going on; as such, I can only recommend it to experienced sci-fi readers.
Visiškai klasikinis saifajus, gal net galima kvalifikuoti kaip space opera. Svetimos planetos, milijonas protingų rasių, blasteriai ir FTL travel. Ko daugiau gali reikėti normaliam nerdui? Pirmą dalį įvertinau 3, šią - 4 *, vidurkis turbūt ir gaunasi tiksliausias įvertinimas: 7/10. Labiau pasimėgauti sutrukdė itin ilga įžanga ir absoliučiai jokios legend - skaityai ir galvoji, KASPERŠ tos aukštosios aukštumos, kuo jos skiriasi nuo kokios Aukštosios Laboratorijos, etc etc etc. Bet šiaip visi nieko. Nerd-friendly. :)
So many ideas! Lovecraftian superintelligent ancient Powers. Unusual and interesting alien species like the warrior butterfly Aprahanti or the pack-minded Tines. Skroderide or Die! FTL drives and space weaponry, but everyone communicates through Usenet? The so-called Zones of Thought is a great concept, if you don't think about it too much. Pacing issues and Vinge's awkward prose at times can detract, but overall this is a wonderful mess of a sprawling space opera. Love the Boris Vallejo cover.
In the world of science fiction and fantasy, an author generally chooses either a hard sci-fi technological setting or a medieval setting.
While I looked forward to the space ship portions, I found the world of the Tines a bit tedious, with all its focus on planet level politics and warfare.I found the Tines to be intriguing aliens, resembling dogs and causing humans to relate to them in somewhat the same way, and requiring 4-6 bodies to make up one personality.
The author is a deeply imaginative writer who packed fascinating ideas and concepts into the story.
There is a Fascinating array of alien creatures described in the story and also the interesting idea of dividing the galaxy into zones such as the transcend (the outer most reaches), the beyond, the slowness and the unthinking depths (the inner most reaches) as the laws of physics becomes more restrictive and 'dumber' the closer you move towards the galactic core.So an enjoyable but long read from an author I definitely intend to investigate more in the future.
Vinge's high-water mark to date and his masterwork, I think. Splendid deep-space adventure. On my (ever-changing) 10-best-SF-ever list. Here's Jo Walton's fine retro-review, from 2009:http://www.tor.com/2009/06/11/the-net..."Any one of the ideas in A Fire Upon the Deep would have kept an ordinary writer going for years. For me it’s the book that does everything right, the example of what science fiction does when it works."I'm (mildly) surprised at the number of so-so reviews here. Which just goes to show, "different strokes for different folks"!
4.5 to 5.0 stars. One of the most imaginative SF novels I have read in some time. Absolutely mind-bending. Highly recommended!!Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: John W. Campbell Memorial Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
3 stars
