https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/559055.How_I_Know_God_Answers_Prayer
A profound little book by a woman who had to learn the trust God in literally everything. Rosalind Goforth and her husband were missionaries to China in the early 1900s, and this is her story of reliance on God. Excellent.
God was Rosalind's constant companion, through her faithful prayers."...the wonder is not that God can answer prayer, but that he does, when we so imperfectly meet the conditions clearly laid down in his Word."Set up similarly to a diary, this book chronicles instances of God's own touch and healing power in the Goforth's ministry.
It reminds all Christians of the glory and power God has in our lives, if we let Him."How I Know God Answers Prayer" is a shining jewel in the midst of other books.
A mini testimony to the faithfulness and greatness of God. Rosalind Goforth, missionary to china reflects on how God answered ber prayers over the years. From the need of clothing, to serious illness God answered and provided and many times in (what would be to us) miraculous ways.
This book is a testimony to the power of God in response to sheer faith of a woman.
Rosalind Goforth persevered in service to God through overwhelming circumstances of life.
Not only do five of her children die due to illnesses, she trusted her Father for the simple and huge needs in her life.
God provides above and beyond throughout her life.
This woman comes to a place where she is able to bring a need before God and then leave it there, awaiting His answer, whether it be yes, no, or miraculous intervention.
Jesus was so close while I was reading this book. It's constant reminder of His every-present faithfulness made my prayers so sweet as I was reading. It is such a strong encouragement to grow in submission to Christ, and to trust and witness in the midst of others who may doubt His faithfulness. The more wholly surrendered we become, the more we will see His lavish love for us and those around us.
great book of testimonyshe seemed relatable, not on any kind of high horse; it was easy to see that she struggled with things just like I doGod cares about the large and the small!
It is especially neat to get an eye into a woman's perspective of serving the Lord on a hard missionary field, struggling with the needs of her children and yet wanting to spend and be spent for God. The answers to prayers include everything from healing from the doors of death at the hands of an angry mob (Boxer Rebellion) to provision of clothes for her one year old.Jonathan and Rosalind Goforth were pioneer missionaries in China - during some rough stretches of time and during some seasons of great harvest.
This short book was written by Rosalind Goforth, wife of Jonathan Goforth, missionaries to China during the Boxer Rebellion.
She chronicles the number of times God worked in their lives, and answer their prayers during this time.
It caused me to research the story behind the hymn."Could we with ink the ocean fill, and were the skies of parchment made; Were every stalk on earth a quill, And every man a scribe by trade: To write the love of God above Would drain the ocean dry, Nor could the scroll contain the whole Though stretched from sky to sky."
Rosalind Goforth was the wife of Jonathan Goforth, who were pioneer missionaries to China under China Inland Mission founded by Hudson Taylor.
They opened new areas of China which had never heard the gospel, saw God work amongst the Chinese people and saw many brought to Christ.
God miraculously spared their lived during the Boxer Rebellion during which they were able to escape from China to Canada.Rosalind Goforth worked alongside her husband while bearing eleven children (only five of whom survived), witnessing to the Chinese and preaching regularly.
Her book is the account of one answered prayer after another, from the time she surrendered to go to China to the time she had to return from China when WW1 started.
A interesting account from Rosalind Goforth about how God had answered her prayers at different times throughout her life. Like her husband's book, By My Spirit, it is somewhat stilted and disjointed. The last chapter was, to me, the most interesting where she recalls how she finally found the victorious life.
This book has encouraged me through some of the most difficult times in my life. I read it once a year. It is the intense testimony of Rosalind Goforth, a missionary to Inland China in the late 1800's. Her family survived the Boxer Uprising. I cannot imagine a more intimate book about the importance of prayer.
Sweet and encouraging stories of answered prayer in the life of a missionary to China at the turn of the 20th century. Spoke deeply to me about my trust in the desire of God to answer our prayers, according to His purposes and timing. Made me evaluate just where I'm at in my faith and trust. Highly recommended!
Very descriptive and inspiring autobiography of answers to prayer in missionary life of Rosalind Goforth and her family who were missionaries with the China Inland Mission in North Honan China in early 1900s.
Good to read about once a year!
Excellent account of answered prayer over a lifetime. I've reread this multiple times. My full review is here: http://barbarah.wordpress.com/2014/10...
Sure, a skeptic could explain away some of what she says.... but only a small number. A most encouraging and challenging book.
short read. some interesting, some mundane. all missionaries should read, probably all Christians.
Awesome book. Even though it was written so very long ago, it encourages the Christian. She shares many examples of answered prayer in her life.
