https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13588394-the-signal-and-the-noise
Nate Silver has done an incredible (and, quite possibly an unpredictable) thing with _The Signal and the Noise_: He has written an extremely good book when he didn't even have to.
It is a wide-ranging, in-depth look at the ways that we are wired to make predictions (and the reasons that these are so often wrong).Silver ranges over a variety of prediction environments: baseball, chess, poker, the stock market, politics, weather, and terrorist attacks to name the most interesting.
Under the right circumstances (a poker game, for example), a strategy that produces only a sightly better prediction than random chance can produce huge dividends.Perhaps most surprisingly, Silver is a great writer (or, at least a great explainer).
Without any introduction to the subject, he claims Hume is stuck in some 'skeptical shell' that prevents him from understanding the simple, elegant solutions of Bayes.What makes this so painful to read is that it shows Silver has never even taken the time to read Hume, at least not more than the two paragraphs he used to cite his sources.
If he had even kept on for five more pages he would have found that Hume was defending the very type of probabilistic arguments that Silver said Hume was 'too daft' to understand.
The Signal and the Noise is a very interesting book with mixed success: 3 1/2 stars, were this permitted.
I found it somewhat difficult to review; however, my entire book group – without exception – had similar opinions.
(Again, this was the unanimous opinion among my group.)Nate Silver is a wunderkind polymath, who has scored resounding successes in statistical applications to baseball, poker, and, most recently and most impressively, politics.
Some things that are predictable are not predicted accurately, exactly because the wrong tools or approaches are used.
This is why I gave the book a 4-star review.
(Most of my book group ended up awarding only 3-stars).
4  stars.Nate Silver is probably best known as the statistician who confounded the “experts” by predicting the results of the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Presidential elections. As a matter of fact, his web site (https://fivethirtyeight.com/) actually did much better than the average pollsters and media with the 2016 election as well. I was following the writing on the site right up to the night of the election. Entering the final few days, 538 was giving Trump about a 1/3 chance of winning, while most o
He also (nowadays) is very careful to refrain from making rash statements about probabilities, usually listing many reasons why the "odds" being quoted could be risky bets.Anyway - before Silver's election triumphs he was known to a less wide, but no less fervid, audience as a sabermetrician who, starting in 2003, contributed predicted statistical ranges of performance for major league baseball players to the Baseball Prospectus.In The Signal and the Noise, Silver discusses issues related to these foundations of his reputation in the second and third chapters.
The second part is about how applying Bayes Theorem can make predictions go right.The book focuses on predictions in a wide variety of topics; economics, the stock market, politics, baseball, basketball, weather, climate, earthquakes, chess, epidemics, poker, and terrorism!
But it is possible to forecast earthquakes in a probabilistic sense, using a power law.
But in Israel, the tail of the curve falls below the power law, likely because of the stronger anti-terror emphasis there.) The accuracy of weather predictions increases slowly but steadily, year by year.
Silver shows how Bayes Theorem can be applied to improve predictions; it is all about probabilities.
I can’t remember what the particular theme was for its recommendation, although I’m sure it had something to do with how political forecasting data could fail so miserably.
His blog/podcast, ‘fivethirtyeight’, is quite popular, featuring talks about polls, forecasting, data, and predictions about sports, and politics, and was even carried by the NYT at one point.
The first section of the book, takes a look at the various ways experts make predictions, and how they could miss something like the financial crisis, for example.Silver does speak to political predictions.
Earthquake predictions, economic forecasters, sports betting/gamblers, or anyone or anything that depends on statistics, data, or formulas is examined in this book.
Prior ProbabilityInitial estimate of how likely it is that I will buy Nate Silver a drink: x = 10% (This may seem high, given that he is a stranger who lives in another city, but I did rely on his blog during the past two elections, so I'd at least like to.) New Event -- I read Nate Silver's bookProbability that I will fly to New York and track him down and thrust a drink in his hand because this was a great book and I am impressed.
z = 30%Posterior ProbabilityRevised estimate of probability that I will buy Nate Silver a drink, given that his book was illuminating and enjoyable: xy/xy + z(1-x) = 15.6%.Feel free to check my math.
The idea is that, whenever making any hypothesis (e.g. a positive mammogram is indicative of breast cancer) into a prediction (for example, that a particular woman with a positive mammogram actually has cancer), one must not forget to estimate all the following three pieces of information:1.
"Bayes rule" is simply a mathematical gadget to combine these three pieces of information and output the prediction (the chance that the particular woman with a positive mammogram has cancer).
If you'd like a less technical description, read chapter 8 of the book (but ignore the rest of it).Now for the bad.
He takes a few jabs at media pundits who are not interested in polls, but insist on manufacturing a narrative which appeals to pre-conceived notions and biases.Silver's interests are broad and eclectic, ranging from Texas Hold 'Em and the stock market to baseball.
He does overly use the Bayesian method of statistics — that is, where probability cannot be interpreted from the event itself, but also from the hypotheses and predictions which preceded it.In politics, Silver separates the wheat from the chaff, throwing out bad guesses with ease.
He refers to bad data sets as reasonable priors, and gives an undue focus to biased sets of data, and misinterprets the recent political focus which is given to environmental science.
Another classic on statistics.
I assume those who had basic statistics would enjoy it more.
it was about weeding out noises from the data, and zooming in on signals which will improve the quality of the predictions.
All easy say (or read) than do :) Here is my prediction...okay more like a hunch: machine won’t be taking over the sorting task mentioned above before humans safely land on Mars.
Let’s see how I did.This was my second read of the book as part of my recent series of refreshers on statistics and data analysis.
نکته دوم جزئیات فراوان و شاید غیرضروری در برخی فصول است که وجهه ای آمریکایی (مثلا در فصول مرتبط با بیسبال یا بسکتبال) به کتاب میدهد یا برای خواننده ای که خیلی به موضوع خاص فصل علاقه دارد جذابیت بیشتر داردجزئیاتی درباره برخی مفاهیم و فصول:(view spoiler)[آغاز علم پیش بینی آنجاست که بشر دریافت برای تغییر آینده غیرجبری باید آن را پیش بینی کند.
جدا از اهمیت خلاقیت و تفکر استراتژیک بشر در مقابل سرعت محاسبه و تفکر تاکتیکی ماشین، نکته مهم فهم چگونگی "فکر کردن" یک ماشین است که محدودیتها و نیت سازندگان آن را آشکار میکند و برای زندگی واقعی هم پیامد دارد.واقعیت نه چندان خوشایند این است که در حوزه های مختلفی، ضعیف ترین افراد منبع درآمد بخش وسیعی از افراد متوسط هستند.
Silver does a good job of laying out the rules of the road:* It's easy to mistake essentially random fluctuations for a meaningful pattern, and in some contexts (say, earthquake predictions), this can have devastating results.* Having a well-formed, testable theory is better than just looking for any correlations you can find in your data set.* Always make predictions and update your probability estimates like a good Bayesian.
All up it was not at all the onerous read I was expecting from the size and nature of the book.What I particularly liked was that it agrees with many of my "hunches" and "gut feels" (that seem to work out mostly) but more importantly puts theory that I can put to the tests and use more widely.
The end conclusion (two streams - indexed investment on signal trading and short trading on the noise), I agree with.A final point on my bad predictions: of the last 4 books I have read I have judged reading time and effort on size and been wrong 3 times - twice with small novels that were philosophically challenging and unpleasant to read and once with this behemoth of a book that was breeze to read!
Nate Silver does an excellent job demonstrating the different domains where statistics plays a part.
The best part about the book is that he doesn't resort to math to explain these differences.
I think this may have explained his hubris in mis-forecasting the 2016 election outcome.
I did hear an interview with him that said his stats weren't wrong.
I think this illustrates his discussion on the difference between likelihood and probability.
I would recommend this as a primer on stats for the non-mathematician, but I would caution that there are sprawling passages of boring stuff that you'll want to skip over.
In addition, Silver loses his way with the climate change chapter as subjectivity overcomes math and the piece covering his online poker career in lifeless, as I expect it would be for anyone who's not a fan of the game.
Silver's at his best covering the weather (temperature predictions and hurricane landfall site predictions have decreased their margin of error by significant margins in the last few decades; trust the National Weather Service and not your local newscaster for the most accurate forecast), earthquakes (impossible to predict), and the Bayes theorem, which he champions as the best model by which to life your life and conduct your business.
The book is clearly intended to capitalize on the popularity of his 538 blog, which as John Cassidy of the New Yorker just articulated overemphasizes the use of Monte-Carlo simulations to come up with inanely precise projections of a tenth of a point of who will win the Presidential election.
While heuristics and Monte-Carlo style simulations may provide details given the parameters included in the model; Silver's assumptions about the usefullness of one poll over another; and the averaging of prediction markets generally reach similar conclusions to what basic common sense would dictate.
The self-aggrandizing by Silver of his own skill at Poker, political forecasting, sports betting etc, seems to belie his own understanding of Bayesian theory and at times reach nauseating levels.
As Silver notes, “The instinctual shortcut we take when we have ‘too much information’ is to engage with it selectively, picking out the parts we like and ignoring the remainder, making allies with those who have made the same choices and enemies of the rest.” What else could explain why Mitt Romney was “shell-shocked” and Karl Rove was astonished by Romney’s loss in a presidential election that every dispassionate observer knew was going Obama’s way?Silver asserts that “our predictions may be more prone to failure in the era of Big Data.
It was really interesting coming to this book soon after reading The Black Swan, as in some ways they cover similar ground – but take a very different approach.
Where Black Swan is written in a highly self-indulgent fashion, telling us far too much about the author and really only containing one significant piece of information, Signal and Noise has much more content.
(Strangely, the biggest omission is properly covering Taleb’s black swan concept.)What we’re dealing with is a book about forecasting, randomness, probability and chance.
Nothing particularly new or interesting here, and I think Silver knew it.
A lot of survey nonfiction like this can be saved with interesting collateral content.
This book tours over a dozen topics, but I didn’t find much new or compelling or even particularly complex in the subjects I know something about (the efficient market hypothesis, political polling, the spread of infectious disease), and more damningly I was never engaged by his writing on subjects I don’t know much about (the weather, sports betting, baseball.
Oh my God, so much baseball.) I guess what I’m saying here is that the book format reveals all of Silver’s weaknesses as a writer, and there are many.
Before we demand more of our data, we need to demand more of ourselves.” This is a book that provides a context as well as explanation for something called Bayes's Hypothesis.
How can uncertainty be expressed and used in the forecasting process?It cannot fail to astonish most readers that Silver cites weather forecasting as one of the more successful efforts in forecasting.
Incorporated into the model is a sim-city of human behavior parsed by demographic details down to the minutest level.In Chapter 8 Silver finally introduces Baye's Theorem.
Additional websites that explain Bayes's Theorem:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aGnVj...
In the end, I'll take from this book the need to think probabilistically in life, and Bayes' theorem, about which I knew little.
The chapter on terrorism was an excellent ending to the book, as it not only tied the concepts together, but it also made apparent the stakes in predicting the future.
For instance, after reading about the super-skilled sports gambler, I didn't have any better idea how he did what he did than I had before reading the chapter.
I doubt my predictions will get much better from having read this book, either (though I wonder whether that was the goal of the book or now).
Nate gives advice on how the predictions can be improved in these particular incidents, but gives the reader advice on how to create accurate predictions in similar situations.One of the most amazing things you'll learn in the book is that weather predictions is one of the best success stories.
Most of us think that weather forecasters are the worst at their jobs, but we're not thinking about probability as we should.You'll learn about Bayes theorem of probability and how to use it in fun things like winning at poker!I enjoyed the book very much and encourage you to read it!
Silver is a proponent of thinking probabilistically, which means making predictions and decisions based on the most likely outcome, given the data you have.
does my opponent have a better poker hand than me?).This book spoke to me, because I'm actually kind of bad at dealing with uncertainty.
I like to think that I can control every outcome, even knowing logically that that is not possible.
The Signal and the Noise is a good reminder that even when you make the best decision possible based on your data, you might be wrong.
Reading Nate Silver is like exhaling after holding your breath for a really long time.
Sometimes made extremely difficult by humans' strong tendency to not accept the truth of things that don't serve our ends, as in the case of the financial collapse of 2008 (which first chapter in this book is the absolute best summary of that whole fiasco I have ever read).
At any rate, I think the chapters on the financial collapse and global warming should be required reading for everyone, and the rest of it for those who are interested.
I like Steven Jay Gould's books of scientific essays, but I know going in that that is what I'm getting into -- a set of essays.And then there's his problem with the word "literally." I realize that there are many who feel it is grammatically correct to use "literally" to mean the exact opposite.
Literally all positions in which there are six or fewer pieces on the board have been solved to completion."No matter where you stand on the grammatical rules around "literally," you have to admit that this tic literally adds nothing to the text and should have been caught in editing.
Nate Silver is clearly trying to do the "unusual analysis of normal occurances" thing that Freakonomics did, although his topics are a bit bigger and his discussion is a little more numbers oriented.
As such, if I ever do think about the topics Silver talks about there won't be much reason to bring his name into the debate.Still, there were some bright spots in the book - particularly the climate change chapter, which discussed the issue with an apolitical clarity you rarely see in the media.
Also, there are people who I would recommend this book to, but they would have to be statistic minded people.
Gostei bastante. Uma boa explicação sobre probabilidades, predições e estatística. Bastante Bayesiano e bem descrito.
То якими принципами слід керуватися, розробляючи прогноз? Які помилки підстерігатимуть в цій сфері? Що про це пише в своїй праці "Сигнал і шум" Нейт Сілвер? Ласкаво запрошую до перегляду відеоогляду цієї книги!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vjJdR...
Lots of people suspected that collateralized debt obligations were far riskier than rated and some were vastly overvalued.
Because, Silver said, they didn’t get that risks could be cumulative; that it was quite possible a hiccup in the market could make people all around the country miss mortgage payments.
And if the risks were cumulative, then the math is wrong.
He suggests that a little sharper analysis of the data would have shown that a 9.1 earthquake was quite foreseeable in Fukushima, and why the authorities thought it wasn’t.
But I truly enjoyed his observation that “A conspiracy theory might be thought of as the laziest form of signal analysis.
But of statistics, there's loads and loads, from baseball to poker to chess to 9/11 (and terrorism) to weather to earthquakes.
I would have labelled myself as a climate change agnostic rather than skeptic, but the key fact here is one I share - that those who have very strong views either way probably don't know enough science to prove anything themselves (it seems possible that no-one does) and probably have a political, emotional or business reason which is a greater influence on them.
The propaganda that comes out about climate change is far weightier than the facts.Right - off to test my newfound chess and poker skills.
