https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1458923.Shannon_s_Way
Shannon's Way is the sequel to "The Green Years" and I think it is best reading them back to back, although you could easily read them as stand alones if you can only get a hold of one or the other.So Shannon has finally got his medical licence with all the extras that are important to a man wishing to go into medical research.
They speak and move like real, flawed, people who make good decisions and bad.
But it made me cry (inside) and that shows you how involved I got with the characters.
I read this in high school. At the time, my reading list was 96% non-fiction, as I fancied myself a "serious" young man with little time for frivolous fiction. This book hit me very personally. I was an orphan, and later lost both my adopted parents at 14. It even inspired me to write a song, an interminable but melodic dirge called "Shannon's Home".
A charming and overwhelming story for winter afternoons and a cup of hot tea. Dynamic narrative, yet detail attentive, deep and highly emotional. I was glad to come up to the happy turns - sometimes one needs some verifications of life's miracles.
Поредна доза Кронин - по-скучен вариант на "Цитаделата" и "Пътешествие в два свята".
Shannon, a young doctor is not having much success in his life.
His heart is set on research rather than a career as a community doctor but he finds that it isn't easy to get the funding or facilities for research.
He is lucky enough to have a few people in his life who encourage and support him in spite of his brusque manner.
He also finds his affection for a young lady medical student is thwarted by their different religious beliefs.
As the saying goes, the darkest night is just before dawn, and so it is for Shannon.
This is the second book I have read by A. J. Cronin. His descriptive writing style really drew me in to every aspect of the story. A.J. Cronin wrote these books in the early 1900's. When I started the first (The Keys to the Kingdom)I wondered if I would become as entwined in the story as I do with more recently written novels I have read. No worries! I absolutely loved them. Some of the paragraphs were so beautiful, I would read them again just to enjoy the pictures they would paint. Highly recommend!
Read and enjoy.When A J Cronin writes about the medical profession, having been a doctor, you can guarantee It will be a good story. Dr Robert Shannon is his own worst enemy. Nothing goes right for him but he never gives up. It would be wrong to record the ending so read and enjoy. If you haven't read The Citadel it is even better than Shannon's Way.
Sequel to "The Green Years."
Experimental pathologist Dr Robert Shannon is the perfect depiction of an isolated scientist on the brink of a new discovery.
Focused and ornery, Shannon goes deeper into his one-room living quarters and hidden laboratory on what should be referred to as an asylum.
His research entrails only him and that pursuit creates a more disagreeable, bitter soul who continues to lose in scientific pursuit and in relationships.
With all the disappointments Shannon faces through the 1948 novel, it is a surprise to find that happily-ever-after ending perfect for the likes of a scientist who isn't totally beaten down.
3-stars for the slow pace, but the research jargon and plot demanded it.
Interesting read on lots of levels, medicine before antibiotics & NHS, prewar life in Scotland, obsession, mental health etc. The book is a sequel but was quite readable without having read first one. And now I know who was behind the radio/tv series Dr Finlay's casebook.
I like his style. The story was good. A little bit Nevil Shute ish. So a bit old fashioned story telling. This book was given to my mother and father for Christmas 1951.
I have read this book when I finished my internship after completing my medicine in 1980 and this was about 37 years ago.
Dr. Robert Shannon an enthusiastic doctor who is a research scholar who faces all the ups and downs and the politics in the medical profession was really touching.
His visit to Miss.Jean Laws’s small town in the country that’s so eloquently explained right from the overpowering smell of the fresh bread that’s being baked in the bakery owned by Miss Jean Laws father and brother and the lunch in a typical humble English cottage in Miss.Jean Laws small village and the picnic under the tree with Just Dr. Robert Shannon and Miss Jean Law, the feelings,sentiments that are so aptly expressed.
Es difícil encontrar un personaje que te guste en este libro.
El mencionado Dr. Shannon es desesperante por decir lo menos y el objeto de su amor no lo es menos.
Ambos separados por sus creencias: uno en la ciencia y ella en la religión, ambos circulan hasta que en algún momento se definen las cosas.Libro de búsqueda científica que el escocés y católico Cronin nos regaló para mostrarnos que aun entre los mas pequeños virus está Dios escondido haciendo su trabajo.
El título mas bien sería: "La Terquedad (obsecación) del Dr. Shannon".Bien por Cronin, un favorito de mi padre y ya veo porqué.
I had to publish a post on a newspaper in 1996 to find this book that was not published anymore in Italian. And it was a worth-to-wait pleasure. This is the follow up from The Green Days. I was so intrigued by the first book that I HAD to read this.
I think Robert Shannon is kinda a male version of me.
My Gramma loaned me this book before she died and I fell in love with it. Maybe it's a great book or maybe it's sentimental...
I enjoy this book, research can be so cruel, it is nice to know that other people have troubles (bigger troubles) with it too after all, at least I don't work in an asylum!
Fun interesting timelines. Shannons way is deep with detail, and you love to hate the lead character until the end.
F Cro
I have this book from my grandmothers collection. My sister says she was fond of this author.
