https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6429929-the-rasp
While it failed to enthrall me as much as those I read years ago, it's worth reading for all the reasons we love classic British mystery: the evocation of a highly civilized society where only cads and bounders get murdered, the intricate logical edifice of crime and detection, the eccentric genius amateur sleuth who orchestrates the whole business.
Colonel Anthony Gethryn, who ticks all the boxes for fictional sleuths (excellent war record in the secret service, independently wealthy, accomplished in many fields but terminally bored) undertakes to investigate the crime for a newspaper editor pal (and falls in love along the way).
Agatha Christie used the same stereotypes in her early mysteries, and didn't change them until after World War II when the Holocaust became public knowledge.
Colonel Gethryn reminds me of Dorothy Sayers' Lord Peter Wimsey, the gentleman detective, in his speech and manner, another stereotype.
MacDonald doesn't really play fair as Christie and Sayers did in leaving clues for the reader, so it should be impossible to spot the real murderer.
Not because I'm brilliant enough to follow the trail but because I like mysteries during this period and have read enough of them to know the criminal is the one least likely to have done it.
Originally published in 1924, I think. Nicely old-fashioned, detective a sort of Fen or Whimsey prototype, but overall hokey.
There are hundreds, thousands detective novels published every year, sometimes it is good going back a hundred years and read some of the work of our “forebears”.
Same issues as now, but now with a historical novel feel.
Philip MacDonald introduces Colonel Anthony Gethryn solving difficult cases as a freelancer for Scotland Yard.
He mellows out a bit by The List of Adrian Messanger, but doesn’t lose his taste for tall women.MacDonald was a popular English mystery writer in the ‘30s, I think Adrian Messenger was Gethryn #15, morphing into a Hollywood screenwriter.
Synopsis: debut of celebrated detective, Colonel Anthony Gethryn. A Cabinet Minister has been found murdered with a wooden rasp.
The police, baffled, calls in Anthony Gethryn.
This young man has all the characteristics we like to see in a Golden Age mystery : well-educated, rich, a little flippant, but with a capacity for making lasting friendships.
And as one one would expect, the police arrest the wrong man, while Anthony sleuths around, finding one clue after another.
The first red herring he has to deal with involves a beautiful woman, and soon the mystery includes a romance as well.As a mystery, I didn't find it much of a puzzler.
As a period piece, it was fun, including the overwrought passion that Anthony conceives for one of the people involved.

Anthony Gethryn helps finance his friend's magazine, and is asked to cover the murder of a cabinet minister in the study of his country house, helping the police if he can. Gethryn doesn't take the assignment too seriously until he meets a neighbor, beautiful widow Lucia Lemesurier. Then, to protect Lucia's family, and to clear an innocent man who is the obvious murderer, Gethryn untangles a complex plan for murder. About the only thing I don't like about this is the title, which makes the book sound like a horror movie or something along those lines.
Read this years ago and it scared the stuffing out of me. Guess that is why it keeps haunting me. So here I am in 2014 noting that I read it about 35 years ago. Probably, since it so memorable, I should give it 4 stars.
I look forward to reading more!
A very pleasant surprise of a story. Nicely-paced and, though definitely of its time, not especially dated.
According to the Haycraft-Queen list, the first Colonel Anthony Gethyrn book.
A good who-done-it in the English style of the 1930's. Not as good or well known as his "List of Adrian Messenger."
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
