https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/853371.The_Ponder_Heart
In The Ponder Heart (1953), narrator Edna Earle Ponder, proprietress of the little-frequented Beulah Hotel in Clay, Mississippi, tells one of her guests (who is there because the car broke down) the story of her wealthy Uncle Daniel—a sweet simple man, but rather “slow”—and how the Ponders tried to keep him from giving all his money away through two marriages, periodic commitments to “the asylum,” and one celebrated murder trial.
The story itself is amusing, but the real beauty and glory of it all is the distinctive voice of Edna Earle herself, an intelligent, sharp-tongued and kind-hearted observer of the local scene.
Quite simply a comic masterpiece by a master storyteller. Isn't there an award for humor named after Mark Twain? Did Welty receive it? If not, why not?!*I looked it up. The award's called "The Mark Twain Prize for American Humor." It was inaugurated only 15 years ago (and awarded only once to someone who's primarily a writer and not a performer), so that explains why Welty never received it. With no power granted to me at all, I hereby bestow it upon Eudora Welty, posthumously.
Eudora Welty’s The Ponder Heart is a novella that has a light comedic feel, a little dark humor, and just enough of Southern flavor to make it a fun, quick read.
Narrated by Edna Earle, citizen of Clay County, it tells of the character of Daniel Ponder, Edna’s “simple” but good natured uncle.
A humorously bizarre court trial ensues, which pits many of the Ponder clan against the family of Bonnie Dee, all with Uncle Daniel and the late Bonnie being the center of attention.
Revealed in her narration are some insightful thoughts into Daniel’s nature of just being a good hearted person.
Debaixo da aparente normalidade desta importante e educada família sulista, escondem-se laivos de loucura absolutamente hilariantes.A leitura deste livro, está recheada de um humor subtil, divertidíssimo.
I did not read The Ponder Heart as a separate book but am treating it as if I did for purposes of marking the review.
As a transplanted southerner, I have been introduced to many southern writers by this GR group.The Ponder Heart was published by the New Yorker magazine in 1953 http://www.newyorker.com/archive/1953...
Shortly after its publication, Ms. Welty signed an option for the book to be made into a Broadway play where it had a four month run.
In this book there are several candidates for quirky but Daniel Ponder is far ahead of all others.
Source: http://www.nytimes.com/books/98/11/22...

I read this because it was one of the July picks for the On the Southern Literary Trail group here in GoodReads.
Since moving to the south, I've wanted to read more southern authors!
It is very light, very southern, and I felt like I recognized a few of the characters in the pages.
Underneath the lightness is a deeper commentary on relationships."I don't know if you can measure love at all.
Threats flew all the time."I baked a Never Fail Devils Food Cake that Welty mentions in the pages.
“O Coração dos Ponders” é uma história familiar narrada por Edna Earle Ponder, da qual no início já só restam o seu avô Ponder e o seu tio Daniel. A narrativa é dominada pelos comportamentos díspares do excêntrico tio Daniel, que oscilam entre a normalidade e a loucura, em dois cenários primordiais, o Hotel Beulah, que Edna recebeu de herança do tio, e a casa senhorial da família Ponders.Um nunca mais acabar de histórias hilariantes, entre o cómico e o trágico, numa escrita de Eudora Welty imaginativa e poética.
The story is told in the voice of Edna Earle Ponder who tells us of the Ponder family or what’s left of it, essentially herself, her Grandpa, and Uncle Daniel.
Uncle Daniel, who according to Grandpa Ponder was “behind a door” when the almighty was handing out brains, is a good-hearted, and good-tempered eccentric, but “simple”, and given to loving people (pretty much everyone he meets), giving away his property, and loquaciousness.
Uncle Daniel too is a likeable character, with his eccentricities, and child-like enjoyment of everything, whether it be the fair that comes into town (where he distributes banana ices to the girls doing a dance, right in the midst of a performance) or giving away his possessions.
In most of the rural South (including present day) there are certain unspoken rules regarding which families' potato salads are "safe" to eat and which ones are to be avoided at all costs.
"It's fine to sample Alma's cooking, but you need to avoid Lucille's beans....I hear they aren't much count".It's in that spirit the Welty tackles this quick witted little tale of a most peculiar man who is loved by everyone, but fails to connect with not one but TWO spouses (the second following much too soon after the first to be accepted by most at the time this was published).
What There Is to Say We Have Said: The Correspondence of Eudora Welty and William Maxwell Reading the correspondence prompted me to read Welty's novel.Set in a small town called Clay, Mississippi in the late 1940's, the story is narrated in its entirety by Edna Earle Ponder who operates the Hotel Beulah in the decaying downtown of Clay.
Roughly the first half of the book describes the Ponder family and the towns of Clay and Polk while the second part describes Uncle Daniel's murder trial through Edna Earle's voice with portrayals of the old state judge, the bumbling attorneys, and a strange concatenation of witnesses and testimony.
He’s terrible with money, obsessed with women, has no moral core, and just seems bent of accidentally destroying his niece’s life.Edna Earle tells early on how bad he is about giving away fortune.
He’s been a general favorite all these years.”The novel deals with an old theme, how do we handle our responsibilities to our family, especially when they are so undeserving of care and attention?
Edna Earle is clearly the more deserving of her grandfather’s fortune both in need and in worth, but because Daniel is the older, but lesser, he gets the fortune.
My first novel by Eudora Welty--I've read a couple of her short stories and found them a little too oblique for me.
Edna Earle Ponder grabs you by the lapels in the first sentence and won't let you get a word in edgewise until she's done.
She tells a touching and hilarious story about her eccentric Uncle Daniel, his life, loves, deficiencies, surprising brilliance, and helpless generosity.
Vividly captures parochial small-town Mississippi life around 1950.
I was only put off by the frequent casually derogatory references to Negroes, always assumed (by Edna?
or Eudora?) to be routine common knowledge.
****.Ms. Welty was a chronicler of the voices of the Deep South for over fifty years.
Our narrator for this tale is a young member of the Ponder family, Eona Earl.
Eona was the granddaughter of the original patriarch of the Ponder family, and the keeper of her uncle, Daniel.
Uncle Daniel was known and loved far and wide in the Mississippi region, mostly because he gave things away.
Uncle Daniel gave away everything: trucks, houses, clothes, and money.
I suspect he gave people things so that they were obligated to listen to him.
It was also obvious that Uncle Daniel suffered from arrested mental development.
Daniel's contemporary niece is Edna Earle, who narrates the novella that is The Ponder Heart.
Edna is the brains of the family and of proprietor the Beulah Hotel after her Grandfather put her in charge over Daniel who often spends and gives frivolously.
After DeYancey "Tadpole" Clanahan, the family attorney, manages to win back the Ponders' gas station that Daniel gave away, Grandpa and Edna Earle decide that Daniel needs to get married and settle down.The Ponder Heart is told in the first person using Southern vernacular and throughout the book you can find several Southern colloquialisms.
To read Eudora Welty is to experience a South that's either long gone or just around the way.
That's what reading Welty is to me.
A small example: "Miss Teacake Magee is of course a Sistrunk (the Sistrunks are all Baptists--big Baptists) and  Professor Magee's widow.
With Miss Teacake,  everything dates from "Since I lost Professor Magee." A passenger train hit him.
That shows you how long  ago his time was." [That last remark being a reference to an earlier tidbit that the passenger train  had years earlier stopped running through their town]And like your aunt, when you listen closely you hear all the history and conflict and pain that that breezy, kooky voice has wrapped itself around.
But I hadn't laughed out loud once, because, I realised, there weren't any jokes in it.
Narrator Edna Earl is not the sort to go telling jokes; but when she described something as being done 'politely' she actually means the exact opposite, and that's what my English teacher taught me was the definition of irony.
Instead we get Edna Earl and her Uncle Daniel and their familial doings and complications, most arising from Uncle Daniel's heedless largesse and the efforts to restrain his prodigal generosity and the rich comic drama arising from his precipitative second marriage.
Welty's more serious works showcase an writer who I thought would have pulled off a style of comedic writing that could keep you so engrossed that the ridiculous plot of The Ponder Heart would not be a distraction.
I was disappointed that this was not the case.
It you are looking for lighthearted stories I would recommend Mark Twain over The Ponder Heart any day; and if you have never read Welty's other works, then this would not be the piece to start with.
Anyone who has read The Optimist's Daughter will be disappointed.
Chose to read this quirky novel as part of Booktopia Oxford and as a companion to What There Is to Say We Have Said: The Correspondence of Eudora Welty and William Maxwell.
The Ponder Heart is the first short novel that William Maxwell edited and had published in the New Yorker.
Parts of it are laugh out loud funny and I can see so much of the typical southerner pouring out of the literature.
I am not crazy over the ending, but where can you read a book that uses the phrase "fixing to..." in a sentence?
True southern lit!
Loved it! Quirky and very, very funny. Can be read in one "pool float" as I have just proven. My interest in the story originates from the book of letters between Eudora and her New Yorker editor, William Maxwell  .I need my own copy of this for future re-reads.
Excellent--very lyrical writer. She's famous for a reason. This book is quite funny and the ending is a big surprise. I didn't like some of it. Attitudes towards African-Americans in the South have hopefully changed a lot since this book was written. I do not think the writer was racist, but she was accurately recording the views of the characters, and some of their attitudes were clearly so.
Oh, the wonderful language of the South as I remember it from childhood! It's like fried eggs, buttery grits and crisp, salty bacon! Delicious.This story is narrated by Miss Edna Earle recounting the stories of her Uncle Daniel Ponder and his wonderfully eccentric (maybe certifiable) approach to life. A quick read that had me smiling all the way through.
Came across this one in a second-hand bookstore, and what a find it was. My first Eudora Welty and I really enjoyed it. Short and very funny, I wanted it to last longer. I'll definitely be reading this author again.
Four slightly flickering stars like bad christmas tree lights, purely for Edna Earle alone, the narrator, who is a delight and carries this whole shambles along with her irresistible southern moxie.
Did half of this on audio, ending up not giving a rat’s ass about anyone or anything, and now I’m outta here.
First person narrative soo a little tough to get through. Reminded me of some of Twain’s works. Got lost in some parts but picked up the general gist of things as I kept going. You wonder where she came up with such s story.
She calls Grandpa's collusion with the Judge to take Uncle Daniel to the asylum 'monkey foolishness' and she wants none of it because she's giving us a  family history, one eccentric member of the clan -- 'the smart one' -- telling a loving story about another, 'the sweetest, most unspoiled thing in the world', both the story and the man.
And no one wants to face Edna Earle when she is telling her story and one is behaving like a Yankee, especially the Yankees themselves.
And for those of you reading this review that are not International Baccalaureate Students, let me introduce you.IB is consuming.
It's consuming in the way you both love it and hate it so entirely.
The way, somehow, you let it come to define who you are.
The way you come to know it, like a friend.
It's consuming in the way you believe in the program.
We are International Baccalaureate Students.And so, after that lengthy Intro, I again come to the point that this book was an IB chosen Assigned Book.
I can't ever give an accurate rating or review on this book, because it's wrapped within the packaging.
Uncle Daniel has two simple goals in his head: to be the center of attention, and to get people to like him, which he tries to accomplish by giving things away.
And Uncle Daniel’s giving habits finally wound up "coming between" him and other people rather than making friends, leaving him lonely.Readers may not be sorry to see the Ponder way of life go, after all; but the ambiguously dark implications here favorably set Eudora Welty apart from legions of "southern cozy" writers that she was a major inspiration for (who I’ve complained about in reviews of Fanny Flagg, for example).
What can I say? Book two in my journey through Welty and I can't say that she has continued to impress. I have read some of the other reviews on the site and seem to be one of the few (if not the only one) that has the Southern background to appreciate where Welty was coming from. But Uncle Daniel is a little too ridiculous for me, though Eva Sisrunk is now among my favorite characters of all time.
