https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156559.Elizabeth_Zimmermann_s_Knitter_s_Almanac
I adore Elizabeth Zimmermann's work in general, as she was the writer who made it okay for me to own my own knitting and be my own designer.But oh, have I learned so much from her!This book is simply not a book for beginners, though.
I'd strongly encourage you to read Knitting Without Tears first, and be pretty comfortable making one of the projects from that before you dive into this one.
If you like and find KWT useful, then you can move on to this one and will find it a source of wonderful patterns and techniques.Though, I admit, part of why I read Zimmermann her delightfully wry and chatty style.
She's a marvelous read.
In the same way that some like Picasso and some don't, some like Elizabeth Zimmermann and some don't.
While I'm not a huge fan of the majority of his pieces, some of his work stands out as brilliant, and certainly he was a very influential artist that carried a movement.
I feel about the same way about Elizabeth Zimmermann.
Some of her designs and advice are brilliant pieces of knitting knowledge.
Take the EZ percentage system, which is an invaluable system for making a sweater that fits nicely, regardless of the yarn or the gauge.
Any and all of Elizabeth Zimmermann's books are keepers, in my opinion.
This book not only contains her usual humor and down-to-earth knitting wisdom, but is organized to give month-by-month ideas for things that can be knit each season of the year.
I've appreciated the idea of knitting mittens, etc.
in the summer when they can be done at leisure rather than in the height of their need.
Additionally, her summer suggestions are easy to carry with you and don't create weight and heat.
As always her "patterns" are more techniques than patterns, allowing the knitter to create items that are standard, yet unique.
A little disappointing for me in the patterns department. I prefer more direct descriptions and I can see why some people have take it upon themselves to obtain (borrow?) the rights and rewrite the patterns in a more "modern" manner. However, the designs are wonderful, as always. They're either complex and interesting or simple and open to each knitter's own embellishments. Elizabeth Zimmerman is no slouch as a writer and it was fun reading through even the patterns I won't try to get her perspective on knitting.
I loved this book. Zimmerman is a woman after my own heart and I aspire to be a skilled and free a knitter like her some day. Some of her designs I won't try, some I dream of trying and others I am itching to put on my needles now. I look forward to returning to this book later in life when I am wiser and have more knitting years under my belt.
I love this woman. Funny, and handy. I might someday work my way through the patterns (dated as some of them are) because I've no doubt I'll learn some mad skills.
Oh my, I love this book.
Zimmerman is funny, practical and joyfully exuberant about knitting.
Yes, she was an expert knitter, but in this book, she encourages experimentation, trying something without a detailed pattern, trusting your instincts and creativity to 'wing it' and produce something unique.
Her humour about knitting and yes, very valid comments about things like its ability to reduce stress, provide amusement in airports, etc, were -for me - reassurance that I am not alone.
Buy the book and enjoy her wonderful writing; if you're a knitter, you won't regret it.
Delightful. I'll admit I've never knitted anything from this book, though I have used her I-cord ideas and made a half-pi shawl. But I love her attitude toward knitting - try something out, experiment, fail and fail and then perhaps succeed. And I especially like the little notes about her life, canoeing with her husband or taking down the Christmas tree. A quick read that I'm always happy to lose myself in for a few hours. I wish I could get my hands on more of her books.
The world lost a wonderful knitter and teacher when Ms. Zimmermann died. I would have loved to have the chance to meet and knit with her. This is an excellent book for knitters of any level. Once you can knit and purl, this book can help you do pretty much anything else you may want to do :)
The Elizabeth Zimmermann's Knitters Almanac BookThis book is a pleasure just to read, because of her humor and choice of words to describe one craft she enjoys. She also makes knitting so easy and even though the designs are vintage they can be useable and desirable today. I was fortunate to get a copy.
I love the idea of a year of knitting projects. maybe for a new years resolution. A few of the projects are a bit dated but many of them provide opportunity to learn different skills and most are timeless classics
i read it as it was made to be read ... in installments as it was published each month. she helps me to understand the principles behind the creation of a pattern ... the logic, or the coding of a particular item that is made ... she's a pleasure to read.
I adore reading Elizabeth Zimmermann's books. So much more then a knitting book; a window into her life....the life of a knitter.
Nice read. Like her stories more than the patterns. Gives insight on how another knitter thinks when designing. Recommend only reading one "month" at a time unless you skip reading the patterns.
I come back to this pattern book so often...
Lovely to read, even if you are never going to knit some of these things...a delightful writer
A book with good instruction and patterns. A bit dated but easy to adapt to modern garments.
A classic knitting book. I admire her ease writing knitting patterns.
Entertaining turn of phrase
Almost three years ago, I had Elizabeth Zimmermann's Knitter's Almanac on loan from my local library.
Frau Zimmermann - at least as far her Almanac is concerned - is certainly not aiming her designs at beginner knitters; and I would have described myself as one at the time.
The Almanac is written diary-style, featuring written instructions and the rationale for knitting a particular project at a given time during the year.
The Almanac may lack visual appeal, but this is compensated by the wisdoms of a seasoned knitter and plenty of practical advice on top of a wide selection of projects.My entire review is available here.
We could shorten, lengthen, widen, narrow, or do any number of things with that yarn to make the item fit like it was made for the person it was designed for, and because we did, it did.Ms. Zimmerman's book is decades old, but people's bodies haven't changed shape that much (seen many two-headed people lately?), so her advice is still remarkably uptodate.
There are a number of knitting books out there that I consider basics to a knitting library, and this is one of them.
After reading two-and-a-half nonfiction books in a day, I needed a change of pace. I was brownsing patterns in Ravelry.com and was reminded that I plan to make a Tomten jacket.(link to the pattern notes)I couldn't find the right book on my downstairs shelf  , so I picked up this alternate title by Elizabeth Zimmermann to browse a bit.What fun! She's got a plan for knitting a different project (or set of projects) each month through the year, including a full-sized sweater one can complete in eig
After reading two-and-a-half nonfiction books in a day, I needed a change of pace.
I was brownsing patterns in Ravelry.com and was reminded that I plan to make a Tomten jacket.(link to the pattern notes)I couldn't find the right book on my downstairs shelf 
She's got a plan for knitting a different project (or set of projects) each month through the year, including a full-sized sweater one can complete in eight hours in December for a last-minute gift.
In any case, try to arrange your knitting so that you are never without some soothing piece of plain work which just ticks along...."I'll re-read this again.
it makes me want to adopt her method of pattern writing, with its descriptiveness and qualifying of all the right things.Some of the patterns I just skimmed over, since this is an excellent book to knit along with, instead of to just read.
However I did find a lot of things I want to try, namely the Chainlink Sweater, the Moccasin Socks, the reinforced heel from August, and, of course, the Pi Shawl, which is the original reason that I wanted to get this book.The only unfortunate thing is that I not only got this from the library, but I got it as an ebook, so it wasn't very knitting friendly as a real book is, since it's not nearly as easy to flip back and forth to certain sections that reference certain things.
BOTTOM LINE: Perennial best-seller from an iconic knitter, filled with some really nice patterns and lovely commentary/tales of life, rather folksy but not cutesy.
Lovely stuff, all 'round.
In this first edition, however, the photos are black and white, the pattern details are casually inserted here and there, and there isn't much in the was of sizing or yarn information.
Still, these are really nice, basic patterns with lovely touches that an experienced knitter can appreciate.
While there's a lot of baby stuff that isn't of much interest to me, there's a really nice aran-style pullover that calls to me, though....
Reading Elizabeth Zimmermann is like having a conversation with your best knitting pals—the ones who are more advanced than you, but who are great teachers and love sharing their knowledge.
Her writing is breezy and chatty; she makes the most complicated techniques seem like a piece of cake.
The Almanac is written diary style and features one project per month, all classics that may not fly for modern wearers (e.g., boxy aran sweaters).
I will very likely add this book to my collection (I read a library copy) to keep around for reference.
To me reading this book is not about the patterns. It's like reading the journal of a really funny woman who loves to knit. I love how she slams crochet. I love how she shares the way she develops a pattern, not only for the technical insight, but also to see her unpretentious practical sense of knitting for real life. HER own real life. None of this is for beginners, as she speaks freely assuming you know a lot. At the same time she demystifies some of the more challenging techniques. Thanks to her, I may attempt an Aran sweater!
I'm not a particularly adventurous or intuitive knitter. I admire people who have the imagination to alter patters or create their own, and can do the math to make the pattern turn out like they want it. Still, this book encouraged me to try some of the patterns within, and they are wonderful. My favorite is the Circular Shawl that grows exponentially. Instead of a shawl, I made a large baby blanket.Elizabeth Zimmermann was not only a wonderful knitter and designer, she wrote well. It often feels like you are reading a very interesting letter from a smart, funny friend.
Her kniting designs are innovative and unique. She has unfailing confidence in her reader's abilities to knit anyhting they want. I know this sometimes distresses newer knitters, and if you like your knitting patterns completely written out you may find this book a bit frustrating at first. That said, I really adore this book. The patterns are fun, and even if they weren't, I love her writing style. Even when she's talking about things basically unrlated to knitting, like canoeing, she has such an observant, present style.
I finally broke down and added an EZ book to my library. The writing is conversational and engaging. The yarn requirements in the book kind of baffle me, though. I got this book with the intent of trying to knit one item per month out of it next year, but some of the projects are so big, like the shawl and the Aran sweater, I know I'll never finish them in a month.This book does make me want to get more EZ books.
I've been thinking of delving into the world of knitting design for a while now and reading this book stoked my desire to do so. Zimmerman's voice is completely her own and I appreciated the no-nonsense approach to being a "thinking knitter."Note: this isn't really a pattern book, so if that's what you're looking for, I wouldn't recommend it. There are "patterns" but they read more like design notes than anything else.
