https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/118141.A_Short_Walk_in_the_Hindu_Kush
In the middle of this mayhem, Newby suddenly reports sending a cable to his friend Hugh Carless at his job with the State Department in Rio de Janeiro:.CAN YOU TRAVEL NURISTAN JUNE?It had taken me ten years to discover what everyone had been telling me all along, that the Fashion Industry was not for me.From this launch point comes a perfect example of Newby’s deft skills in capturing characters with a flurry of impressions and metaphors.
On it, Newby quotes from a phrasebook of the Afghan Bashgali language, which apparently contains opening gambits like 'How long have you had a goitre?', 'I have nine fingers; you have ten', 'A dwarf has come to ask for food' and 'I have an intention to kill you', which made me laugh so hard I actually dropped my copy of the book.
Which may prove hard, as it's over 100 years old and devilishly obscure.While not as hilarious as the quotes listed above, the rest of A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush -- about the author's impromptu trip to Afghanistan's Nuristan region, one of the most inaccessible parts of the world -- is pretty damn entertaining, too.
Yet when he's out in the field, suffering his most physically, he's having a hell of a good time, and he relates these contradictions memorably.
However, this book is just a joy to read, and after several years of low-key lobbying I still hope someday to get my book-buds here to read it as a group!All in all: British wit, intrepedity and style, scenic gorgeousness, third-world encounters of an unpredictable kind -- if you like any of these and, of course, travel memoirs, A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush is not to be missed!
This is the 1950s, they'd never had it so good, and there were still years to go before the Profumo scandal.Knowing nothing about mountain climbing and about as much about the Hindu Kush, they still think it's a good idea to attempt some peaks in Afghanistan but they do have a couple of days practise on a large rock in the UK beforehand (view spoiler)[ this gives you some idea of what kind of book this will be, its incredible that they all got back uninjured  (hide spoiler)].
I’m only adding this note because I recently re-encountered that wonderful incident Newby tells against himself where they happen to meet Wilfred Thesiger, the legendary solo explorer of the Middle East; and I’d recently read in Among the Mountains that Thesiger wrote of the same incident (and how very English for the two to meet like that!)  Thesiger invited them for a meal and to spend the night in his company.
You just have to remember it was written in a different age, long before political correctness and cultural sensitivity; and before Afghanistan became off-limits to casual travel that means it probably is impossible to ever repeat a journey like this.
The funniest phrase: "A lammergeier came down from the sky and took off my cock." (Meaning rooster, not the other kind!)Can't help wondering when a tourist might have need of that one.At the conclusion of the trek, the author wrote: "I had the sensation of emerging from a country that would continue to exist more or less unchanged whatever disasters overtook the rest of mankind." He couldn't have known how wrong he would turn out to be about Afghanistan.
Newby writes in short straight clear prose with wry, witty self-depreciating humor delivered with impeccable timing.
The key to Newby's success is he writes straight prose, straight as an arrow, then without warning, slips in a sidebar, related yet not related, that just catches you with no alternative but to set the book down, and laugh.
It isn't what story he is telling, but how he tells it; smooth, seamless, and adventurous.I breezed through this book at a pace I never expected.
You, like me, will find yourself reading it at rapid pace, far quicker than you expected.
This book made a delightful read for a week resting in the south of France; while Eric and Hugh labored senselessly up a mountain I'd never heard of and through villages full of unpredictable but ultimately missable minor tribes, I reclined on a chaise longue laughing my head off.
In that sense, it's more than a "bad trip" exercise, but a lesson in good humor, wit under pressure and friendship.To be an explorer means different things to each of us, but they were aiming to shortcut their way into exploration history with a jaunt up a neglected mountain in an utterly unmapped part of the Afghan world.
16 among National Geographic's top 100 Extreme Travel Books of all time.
A travel classic and very funny with it! Two chaps set off to climb a mountain in Afghanistan with no prior experience of climbing mountains.....what could go wrong?I laughed my socks off!
I guess I have to call this "interesting"...
It is very much of its time.
This trip was undertaken in the 1950s and remarkable for that alone.
For two non mountaineers to travel where they did to climb an as yet unclimbed peak may seem a little foolhardy and that could be an understatement.
But they were British damn it :) And there in lies some of the problem for me.
It is a personal account of an interesting journey into a very wild part of the world done in a somewhat eccentric way.
I'm glad I read it and it is "interesting"!
Newby writes in a now-well-established genre of travel writing: the improbable, disastrous trip taken to an unlikely place by the totally unprepared.
He wasn't the first to do this sort of thing -- among others, Peter Fleming's Brazilian Adventure stands out as an earlier blackly comic "bad trip," not to mention Evelyn Waugh and Graham Greene.
Like several of the writers mentioned above, a great deal of the charm of Newby's book lies in several key factors.
I found the earlier sections of the book (before the actual journey) to be predictably lighter and funnier.
The title of this iconic book summerizes it well.
One does not just take a short walk in the Hindu Kush, take a look at any map.As EN discovers early on, the beginning and the start are separate events, and the executionsomething else entirely.
So here we have two pretentious ill prepared dandies floundering around the mountain, looking for a way to the top, enduring all sorts of rough demands, bullying their way along the trial.What spoiled the book for me was exemplified by this insidious class trait.
His writing reveals a sense of entitlement limits his vision.I am uncomfortable and limited by looking at the world through his eyes.
That strange, steeply mountainous region between Afghanistan, Anatolia, Northern India, and Nepal.
What were they thinking?
Two out-of-shape pasty-pale gits thinking they could just stroll up the sides of Mt Everest?
One lone chapter only, of dry facts and figures--Chapter 7--but its the most concise history of the exploration of India I've ever encountered, and I will likely keep the book after I've completed it solely for this reason.
Fast facts on all the various European expeditions of the 1800s--extremely convenient.
Also, the diplomatic history; colonial maneuvering; tales of the various legations and consulates and missions.
I read this book in a rather desultory way picking it up and putting it down for several weeks but it really began to resonate with me during a recent camping trip in the Lake District after putting 2 tents up in the pouring rain late at night and then discovering I had no way of boiling a kettle or making a hot meal....
A postscript penned in 2010 by his travelling companion briefly outlines how the history of Afghanistan over the last half century has impacted on those remote valleys.
What began as a rather light hearted travelogue turns out to be an important social history document!
Then one day, he received a telegram from Hugh Carless, a casual friend, asking "CAN YOU TRAVEL NURISTAN JUNE?"Nuristan -- which until 1896, when its people were forcibly converted to Islam, had been called Kafiristan (land of the infidels) -- is one of the most remote and backward provinces in Afghanistan, nestled in the mountains of the Hindu Kush, northeast of Kabul.
And thus was born his best-selling travel adventure, A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush.Although Newby's life to that point had been a bit more adventuresome than his account of it suggests -- distinguished military service, and shipping out as an 18-year-old apprentice on a four-masted sailing vessel carrying grain as cargo between Europe and Australia -- neither Carless nor he had any mountaineering experience.
This would be quite formidable for even the most seasoned explorers/mountaineers but our pair were drawing on British grit and not much else.
Along with their rag tag bunch of local support staff, this is a tragi-comedy of errors.Their travel through Afghanistan, Kafiristan, Nuristan, near Pakistan/ Hindustan etc to get to Mir Samir, the mighty peak, provides an intimate glimpse into the lifestyles, history and geography of the various nomadic tribes here.
They converse w the natives in the local language and collaborate till their goal is achieved.
A fabulous book.
The ultimate amateur adventure story, everyone should read it.
Eric Newby is irrepressible in his aim to climb the mountains of Afghanistan, Embarking on his poorly planned expedition, with little relevant experience, he has no idea of what disasters await him in the hindu kush.
The delightfully self-deprecating style of story telling does dampen the spirit of high adventure and sheer grit that keep our heroes going on their quest.
It is one of those books where I found myself trying to read slowly as i approached the end because I did not want to finish it.
Krietni vairāk humora un pašironijas nekā būtu gaidījis no 'klasiska' ceļojumu stāsta par mēģinājumu šķērsot Afganistānas nepieejamo Nuristānu. Dizentērija un strīdi ar vietējiem gan bija aptuveni gaidītajā apjomā. Ja ir kaut mazākā interese par žanru, silti iesaku.
Just a total pleasure and the travails of the explorers are just the thing to cheer one up when has a slight cold.
You can hear its echoes clearly—in concept, structure and humor—in Bill Bryson’s recent bestseller, A Walk in the Woods.As rude as many an ugly American abroad, Newby and companion Hugh Carless angrily berate a Mullah who has just immersed their camera and packaged food in a river, and tell mocking Pathans to “____ off!” Carless cuffs a Tajik boy for purposefully leading them astray, only later to discover him the son of their chieftain host.
Further, if one wanted to get an intimate picture of tribal life in Afghanistan before the onslaught of war three decades ago, this would be an excellent place to start.A Short Walk in the Hindu Kush launched Newby on a career as one of Britain’s best and best-read travel writers.
Perhaps explaining some of the ethnic and religious differences that still dominate Afghan politics, Newby tells that: "The Tajiks are the original Persian owners of the Afghan soil, conquered and dispossessed by the Pathans but still speaking Persian; agriculturalists, Sunnites, intense in their religion, a far more ancient people than the Hazaras, round-headed, flat-faced Mongols who were settled in Central Afghanistan by Genghis Khan in the fourteenth century in the region he himself had depopulated and converted to the Shiah faith in the eighteenth by Nader Shah's Persian army."
And they know nothing of climbing.
In 1958 it had already been over twenty years since Byron had passed by the area and, as far as we know, Newby was the first European to set his foot in the area since.
This is a hilarious book, but also one of stark and powerful observation.
Thankfully, although Waugh wrote the introduction to the book, Newby avoids the childishly acidic and solipsistic qualities of Waugh and his ilk.
Newby is self-effacing, humble and brilliantly observant.
Jerome's classic tales of less arduous adventures elsewhere (in a boat and on a bummel) this description of a brave expedition into largely unknown territory serves as an inspiration to all those of us consider the world a friendly place full of friends we simply haven't yet had a chance to meet.
Buy or borrow this book, it will leave you astonished that such an adventure was undertaken with so little in the way of experience and equipment and richer for allowing Newby's self depreciating manner to enter your thoughts.
The book jacket describes this as "laugh out loud funny" and while I was amused in a few places, I think a lot of the British humor flew right over my head (sadly).
But perhaps this novel was the first of that type, so I have to give some credit to Newby for creating the trope.
Complaints aside, I did learn some interesting things about the history of Afganistan and its geography, and I reaffirmed to myself why I NEVER want to go mountain-climbing.
A bit tough to stay enthusiastic while reading.
Though my mind wandered a lot, I still wouldn't consider it boring.
Just a bit slow going is all.
With each chapter I found myself looking up at least one word, phrase, and/or event in order to properly keep up.
It's been a long time since I had to do something like that, but I didn't mind.
But if you're looking for information about the land and people of Afghanistan (as I was), then I highly recommend this book.
All in all, it was a very good read.
"God, you must be a couple of pansies,"Two men with no idea of mountain climbing set off for a breathtaking expedition to Nuristan.
The amazing journey is so well described by Newby that one can't help but walk with him through green and rugged valleys and fast flowing rivers to Nuristan and then back from it.
An undertone of change is felt as these men travel miles and miles away from the comfort that they left behind and a feeling of maturity arises which comes only from travelling.
The writing is funny too, so that you laugh as you read imagining along the stupendous scenarios.
I enjoyed this book. Its horrendously British but in a nice charming way. Its a real celebration of naivity, inabilty and grit. Its main strength is Newbys ability to laugh at himself and their situation. The final line is perfect.
A travel classic recommended by a friend, most of this travelogue takes place in the valleys of Aghanistan's most remote and under-explored region, Nuristan ('land of the enlightened').
Despite having travelled in Afghanistan myself I knew nothing about this region, and learned a great deal from the book.
This is a travel book from a different age by a writer from an England that no longer exists - that is what I personally enjoyed most about A short walk in the Hindu Kush.
Came across this in my mother's bookshelf when I had nothing else to read, and absolutely loved it. Set in the late 50s, two Englishmen, with little to no experience, go hiking and mountain climbing in Afghanistan, including a very remote area called Nuristan. Very English, very understated, and a fascinating read about a part of the world that I knew little about.
Not as good as some of his other travel books.
