https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50001.The_Complete_Guide_to_Middle_Earth
An oh-so very helpful reference book for those who want to become a Middle Earth historian or perhaps an etymologist focusing on the Undying Lands......maybe a specialist in Numenor studies?Robert Foster's The Complete Guide to Middle Earth: From The Hobbit to the Silmarillion will give you just that, a comprehensive compilation of the people, places, events, etc as created by J.R.R. Tolkien.
(III 510; R 67)On the other hand, Tolkien being the incredible world-builder that he was, relatively speaking there is copious amounts of info on fairly unimportant characters:MIRABELLA BRANDYBUCK (TA 2860-2960) Hobbit of the Shire, youngest daughter of Gerontius Took.
I know it might seem strange but my wife and I used this as a "baby name book". all three of our kids can be found in this book. My original copy is falling apart at the seams, but I won't be getting rid of it any time soon.
I keep this around any time I am reading something set in Middle Earth, which is much of the time. My dog-eared paperback copy is filled with notes, scribbled maps and bookmarks. Even avid readers of Tolkien's work sometimes have a hard time keeping track of the names, dates and places. Included are short descriptions of all the who's, the what's, the where's and the when's. This guide is a perfect reading companion.
I absolutely adore this book.
I love having it on hand as reference material.
Speaking as someone who has had great difficulty when trying to read The Silmarillion, it really helps explain how events which took place outside of The Lord of the Rings came to pass.I've checked this book out of my local library so many times, and I was thrilled when I finally got my own personal copy.The pictures interspersed among the entries are gorgeous and always worth some attention.Love this book and would recommend to any fan of Lord of the Rings.
Anyone who is not so big on Middle Earth and the lore around it probably wouldn't enjoy this book quite so much.
You get an A-Z encyclopedic concordance from pretty much anything in The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, the Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales.
I agree with Christopher Tolkien's statement on the inside dustjacket flap: ""Mr Robert Foster's Complete Guide to Middle-earth supplies, as I have found through frequent use, an admirable work of reference." Aside from the various Tolkien books I recommend, I insist that this be the only 'extra' or 'reference' one needs to complement The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, The Silmarillion and Unfinished Tales.
This book is an exhaustive guide to everything in Tolkein's Lord of the Rings realm. I have found it indispensable over the years. I will remember something from the books and will consult this guide to be sure my recollection is correct. If you are new to the LOTR world, you will find this book to be very handy. There are spoilers throughout, obviously. I applaud Robert Foster's effort in compiling this information in one nifty volume.
Only the True Believers own this book. Welcome.
An encyclopedia of persons, places and things in Tolkien’s Middle-earth. Excellent resource.
Thus, I like to skim through and find little passages within these reference books; they're not all the same, and so it's interesting to see how similar or different the interpretations may be from book to book.Tolkien's Lord of the Rings and the Hobbit are better known as his most famous works.
Many characters may have similar names or even the same name, and some even go through transformations in which their previous name is no longer used, but a new one is adapted.This complexity is lessened however, with the help of reference books.

This is certainly an indispensable companion when reading The Lord of the Rings.
It is an alphabetically arranged reference guide to pretty much all of the characters, place names, and general subjects in Tolkien's Middle-Earth based books.
I reread The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit every year or two, and I find that I always get more enjoyment out of reading the books if I have this guide close by while I read.
If you're thinking of reading The Lord of the Rings for the first time, or even re-reading it, this is definitely a companion you'll want on your journey.
It truly is set up as a dictionary!
You can look up any word from LOTR, Hobbit, or Silmarillion, and it’s almost certain to be in here!
I haven’t found any yet that aren’t, so.
Names, locations, battles, objects, all categorized alphabetically.
Page numbers for each item are also included, but even though my books are DelRey, same as this guide, the numbers don’t work – my books came out rather later, so.
I have found it to be quite helpful, thought I still love the Atlas more – it would take an unbelievable amount to beat that.
J If you can get a copy, and you love LOTR, I recommend it.
This is a reference guide. It isn't really a cover-to-cover read, though, I suppose you could do it. I really enjoyed the thoroughness of this book. Mr. Foster covers his bases through the Hobbit to the Silmarilion (sp?) and beyond. I couldn't think of anything that was missing, and I learned a little about some people, places, and things that I was shocked I didn't already know. This is a handy guide to have when reading Tolkien's works.
I really enjoyed reading this glossary bit by bit. It's great to have something like this to pick up when I only have a minute or two to read. I think by now I have memorized nearly all the names of the Valar, and I can even tell the difference between most of the sons of Feanor! It's great to see all those little historical facts of Middle Earth laid out and explained. It's incredible how Tolkien kept it all so organized in his writings!
From the First Era of Tolkien Rediscovery. Very comprehensive discussions of people, places and things. A bonus are the genealogical tables and Chronology of the First Age. Maps provide little detail beyond what Tolkien drew. No speculation is both a virtue (straight Tolkien) and a loss (no attempt to draw on secondary sources). Highly useful whether reading the original works or reviewing Peter Jackson's efforts
While not a complete resource (some minor entries which could have been are overlooked, and in a couple of entries mild conjecture is made- but when it is made a notice is given by Robert Foster that they are conjectures), it remains an excellent resource for Tolkien Fans.Having used all of Tolkien's works and private letters, Robert Foster does an excellent job of creating this encyclopedia of answers for those who have yet to read his private notes/letters or other works.
I love dictionaries and encyclopedias, and this is an absolutely great reference guide. It is truly perfect when you want to get a quick overview of characters, artifacts, locations, epochs etc. from The Hobbit, LotT, or Silmarillion. The only thing that could make it any better in my eyes, would be the inclusion of maps.
Title in German:Das große Mittelerde LexikonA "must have" for everybody who loves Middleearth. In alphabetical order are listed every person, scene, term and background to Tolkiens world. In the appendix can be found a chronology of the early period of Arda and the family trees of the most important elves and kings. This review refers to the german edition revised by Helmut W. Pesch.
Title in German:Das große Mittelerde LexikonA "must have" for everybody who loves Middleearth. In alphabetical order are listed every person, scene, term and background to Tolkien´s world. In the appendix can be found a chronology of the early period of Arda and the family trees of the most important elves and kings. This review refers to the german edition revised by Helmut W. Pesch.
Since this is more of an encyclopedia than an actual "book", I only looked up the things relevant to my essay and found the information very.... informative? Idk, I think it will be useful at least and there is a lot of information in this book about almost everything pertaining to the world of Middle-Earth.
This is the best source of all things Middle Earth. I used it extensively while I was reading the Lord of the Rings series. This very useful appendix even explains dates given during the First Age. It gives you just about everything except the temperature of the character's backsides. This is a must for a Tolkein reader/fan.
A guide both useful and valuable to keeping up with the tousands of characters, races, places, battles, events and thousands of years of history of Tolkien's Middle Earth. Particularly indispensable if you're planning on making your way through The Silmarillion or you simply want to go back on a fact-checking trip.
This little book was indispensable to my thorough digestion of Tolkien's famous books. While it isn't completely exhaustive, it does provide a comprehensive alphabetical dictionary-like reference to the many names, places and historical references Tolkien scatters throughout his works. A must-have for any big Tolkien fan.
This is a very helpful guide to the manifold names and places from Tolkien's total Middle-Earth corpus. I am pretty fair at keeping the Hobbit and LOTR straight but as I am not as familiar with the Silmarillion (only read one-and-a-half times) and other works, this is helpful.
This is a great guide to the world of Middle Earth that has lost most of its value in a world post-Google. It features succinct explanations for pretty much any obscure location or character you may run across, and it's very easy to read.
Wow! I was not quite sure what to expect from this, but picked it up while waiting for a copy of The Hobbit from the library. Not doing me much good without one of the novels (or all). It needs to be returned before that, so I will have to reacquire later. Looks very helpful.
I used this guide throughout reading the Lord of the Rings trilogy and watching the movie, as well as writing a recreational fan fiction. It has been very useful and I learned a whole lot of bizarre and interesting facts about the characters, places, and objects.
I've read this book after completely reading The Hobbit and the entire Trilogy. Came in handy when it came to recalling certain characters and places that were not stressed that much in the books. Very helpful book.
This is how I got through LotR. Seriously. I'll go back and re-read LotR one day, but at the time, I had trouble keeping track of the characters. Besides being a useful reference while reading the books, it was fun to read on its own!
My whole family loves Lord of the Rings so this book was something that appealed to us all. I have to admit I used it more or less to look up things that interested me whereas my boys have read it cover to cover several times. lol
To be honest I can't really say I've started at the beginning and read tot he end - just as one wouldn't with a dictionary or an encyclopaedia. But this is my invaluable, at hand, reference work whenever I read, or write, anything Tolkien related.
