https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5715852-surrealist-manifesto
Manifesty surrealismu zdárně praktikuji každý den na záchodě, ale jejich literární podobu jsem kupodivu dlouho odkládal. Guláš to byl ve finále podobnej. První manifest byl švanda dudák a přesně to, co jsem od této knihy očekával. Druhý manifest mě chvílemi dost iritoval, protože si Breton dost vyléval srdíčko a chvílemi působil jako uražená plačka, nicméně oceňuji nadávku "myšlenková cuchta," zařadím ji do svého slovníku. 8/10
Entre las teorías freudianas y las imágenes oníricas de los cuadros de Dalí.Breton es pesado.
I just read the 1924 version but the parallels with today can not be understated.
I never thought I would find this so inspiring! Definitely worth the read, specially if you are interested in writing or in art in general. I'm glad I had to read it for uni.
A crucial read for anyone who is interested in surrealist literature and art.
This book is nearly 100 years old and a manifesto of something never done before.
It would be unfair to give it a review on pure literary meters.André Breton is the father of surrealism.
This is his way of fighting for his vision.In my mind there are two factors to determine whether art is important: 1.
it's something new.
Craft is also an important factor – but still pure aestethics in the face of art.This book was high on something new and something to say.
It was low on craft.A nice (and fast!) read anyway.Favorite quote (in Finnish): Sillalla huojui kissankasvoinen kaste.
An inspiring piece of work. Taking Freud's theories and highlighting surrealist elements in works of painters and poets, Breton argues for the superiority of the irrational and the necessity of the marvelous. Because humanity won't ever be bored by their dreams, the overlapping of the conscious and unconscious in contemporary art, poetry and theater still makes surrealism relevant.
Un libro sobrecargado con múltiples ideas; la necesidad de entender los sueños; La búsqueda de un objetivo claro para la ciencia, que no la gaste en causas secundarias, en fin. Todo esto como forma de buscar un entendimiento de nuestra alma, que trate de mitigar las oscuras fuerzas que se debaten el interior de ésta.
Daha önce sadece ilk manifestoyu okumuştum. İkincisi de eklenmiş bu kitaba. 2. Manifesto tam olarak bir manifesto devamı olmamakla birlikte, gerçeküstücü olarak ilk manifestoyu kabul edenlerin sonradan farklı mercilerde söyledikleri ve gerçeküstücülüğe uymayan davranışlarının eleştirisi gibiydi.
SO HARDA V HARD BOOK
Very confusing automatic surrealist poems, the foundation of the surrealist art movement
Not sure I could consider this read...not sure I understood enough of it.
První manifest (1924) úžasný životabudič, druhý jeho pravý opak, nestál mi za dočtení.
