https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/764166.Katy_and_the_Big_Snow
The more time goes by, the more books I read to my kids, the more I appreciate Virginia Lee Burton. Katy the big red bulldozer is a strong female protagonist with no need for a love interest or even a male sidekick. She just keeps on chugging, helping people, doing the job when no one else can, never giving up even when she gets tired. Before becoming a parent I wouldn't have expected anthropomorphic highway department vehicles to be kickass role models, but here we are.
One of the only things I've ever found with Katy spelled with a "y". Who cares if I'm a snow plow? I'm a snow plow who saves the day!
I think Virginia Lee Burton is wonderful. Long-winded, but wonderful. I like the ridiculous level of illustration detail in this book (the map of the town is really out-of-control detailed and the story of the humanized snow plow that just keeps going even though she's tired and she doesn't think she can do it. File this under "I think I can" books. Ages 4-7.
Oh, I am so glad to have reread this book. I hadn't read it in years and it was wonderful. The maps were wonderful and so engaging. The details would appeal to boys and girls. The story is simple and easily accessible. But, the best part about this book is the plans I have for it. I can't wait to use it to teach a few writing mini-lessons. Her use of word placement on the page and in conjunction with pictures will be a great example to my own little book-makers. Can't wait!
Katy, a brave and untiring tractor, who pushes a bulldozer in the summer and a snowplow in the winter, makes it possible for the townspeople to do their jobs.This story was used in my "snow" storytime and we pretended to push the snow in all the parts of town mentioned- north, south, east and west. East is toward the mountains, west is toward the lake and so on, so we chugged along in those directions. It is also great to showing how much snow fell- good math tie-ins.
This is my favorite so far by Virginia Burton. If you love her, you'll love this book. Katy gets a whole town out of trouble by plowing in all directions in Geoppolis. No one but Katy is strong enough to do it, and she keeps going until every bit is done. I love these illustrations - just imagine what the page looks like that shows the town under a huge snowfall. It's fun.
We really liked this book here (another new one for me -- clearly I was Virginia-Lee-Burton-deprived as a child!)-- it's certainly appropriate for a New England audience. I enjoyed the extra illustrations around the border too -- they're a nice extra for children to enjoy looking at even after the reading is done.
By the author of one of our favorite books, Mike Mulligan and the Steam Shovel! Wanted to try another Burton and she didn't disappoint. My kids loved it. A little lesson about maps and directions with a compass rose and a map of the town. A great social studies lesson as well. All my kids loved this one.
Great book on the lesson of helping.
I love this book...classic read aloud that still appeals to children in magical ways. It has the big snowstorm, big vehicles, a hero, a city map...what more could you ask for in kindergarten!
Still a great winter book for kindergarten and first grade even though it was written 70 years ago!
This is a classic Kid's book. I wish I lived in the city of Geopolis.
Wonderful book for a grandmother to read with a two year old grandson who loves to snuggle.
Virginia Lee Burton's characters are long-suffering and gentle, enthusiastic and generous, and in Katy and the Big Snow, we are introduced to an unforgettably doughty protagonist willing to put everything she has on the line to help friends in need.
I also love how Virginia Lee Burton is able to convincingly ascribe traits of inner strength and courage to a snow plow; it made me think about what that extraordinary vehicular power and perseverance would have looked like to one witnessing Katy's feat on the night it happened, her engines straining and pushing so hard, all at their absolute peak of condition.
The winters are usually mild and Katy is not called upon until there is a Big Snow.
Katy is the only one that can navigate around town, pushing the snow off the roads.
In math, it might be fun to have the students lay out/draw a city of their own after teaching coordinate graphing and distance formula.
Or you could lay out the city on the gym floor or parking lot and have the students Check to see if the distances between the highway department, school, hospital, burning house etc...
Seventy-One Years Ago!
[At the time of this writing.] I just cannot believe that this amazing picture book was created in 1943, over seven DECADES ago!"Katy and the Big Snow" is an often overlooked precursor to the hyper-detailed pictures books of the 1980's, such as the "Where's Waldo" series and the "How Things Work" books, etc.Virginia Lee Burton does an AMAZING job creating the little town of Geoppolis (which she admits is based on Glaucester, MA) with an exquisitely laid out city map, all of which actually comes into play for the rest of the story's plot!
(and anyone else who loves to read!)
Virginia Lee Burton is a favorite at our house. We received Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel as a gift and later Katy and the Big Snow. Burton's writing is wonderful for young children—it has a great rhythm and energy to it that makes it timeless. Katy is especially delightful because "the tougher the job the better she liked it"—she is appealing to boys and girls alike. We also have enjoyed Choo Choo, Maybelle the Cable Car, and The Little House. But I think Katy and the Big Snow might be my favorite.
Katy and the Big Snow is classic children's literature.
I remember reading it at a child, and now my children have read it.
In fact, my daughter's kindergarten read and studied it as part of the school's "Five-in-a-Row" curriculum, enjoying the book's story, as well as other elements (mechanical devices that help people do work, seasons, changes in condition due to aging).These "classic" award-winning children's books and children's authors are always enjoyable to read...and read again, over and over.
One gets the feeling of constancy and continuity...and a really good story.Pick this one up and read it to your kids...or just read it again for yourself.
I'm avoiding putting children's books into my "Read books" (because anything that can be read in 10 minutes shouldn't count towards my grand total in my mind, as if anyone else is checking my stats...), despite the memories of those books being as essential as any literature I've read in my adult years.
However, I've decided that my 3 favorite picture books (excepting obvious classics like "Where the Wild Things Are" that don't need any further recommendations) from my tyke days are too worthy to not be recognized: 1.
Read 'em with them.
Read it when they're not looking.As a father-to-be, these fabulous picture books will soon be put back into heavy rotation.
Mike Mulligan and His Steam Shovel, A Little House, and now Katy and the Big Snow...I love Virginia Burton's books.
The illustrations never fail to enchant me.
Some pictures in this book have borders lined with a variety of Katy's jobs or the vehicles used by the Highway Department.
These are especially nice for little ones that can't read yet.
The town map is also a great way to interact with a child; the numbered close ups in the border allow them to pick out where each building is located in town.
A picture book means what the name indicates.
It should combine story and illustrations to make magic, and that's exactly what Virginia Burton does.
Personifying machinery has always seemed odd to me. Tuggy the Tugboat was the first such story that I remember. I'm not even comfortable reading these to a child. A machine that thinks and has feelings is just weird. Of course, someday computerized machinery may take on emotions of their own, and I will have to rethink my stance.That said ... Katy has admirable character traits, which I'd be happy for kids to emulate. And, I like any book with a pictorial map that kids can study.
How fun! I got two "I loved it!" replies when I asked how much they liked this one. I'm afraid I'm biased toward this author-- Mike Mulligan and the Steam Shovel, another of her books, was a favorite growing up -- so I already was primed to enjoy it! But it pleased me to find another favorite and one my kids enjoy. What a fun wintertime read.
This is a cute story that shows the value of perseverance and service to others. I particularly enjoy the map on pages 6 & 7 which labels all the points of interest in the city. This would be a good book to use during a lesson on reading and creating maps. Also, throughout the book a map compass is used to give the direction that Katy is plowing.
Of the other books by Burton this one was merely "okay" -- I love the other ones in her collection better. There just seems to be something missing here. A lack of connection with the character. However, the work hard ethic of the snow plow was good. I'd probably only add this to our permanent collection just to round out the series but it is not on my must have list.
I think this book is so sweet and I love how the author gave Katy life. She is a little snow plow that is so full of life. Its a great book for talking about construction (which is why we read it in class) but it is also great to talk about how rewarding hard work can be. It is great and I truly enjoyed it.
I love this book so much. I remember reading it as a kid, and enjoying watching the Kathy the snowplow go from place to place to free the various community helpers from the big snow. I read it to my own kids now, and they too, love this book.
Richly detailed illustrations (it's Burton, after all), with an engaging - and very slightly anthropomorphic - tractor as the heroine. Not quite the emotional heft of "The Little House" & "Mike Mulligan and his Steam Shovel", but still a great read. DS4 & DD2 were enthralled.4/5
Great book for kids. Story keeps them interested and teaches a great lesson about helping others even when the situation is hard. The illustrations are also very good with lots of "stuff" for the young person to look at.
Just okay for me, but my little boy loved reading about the snow plow (Katy) that saves the day. The best part is the illustrations, including a full map of the city where you can track Katy's route through the city as she helps out.
My seven-year-old son loved this book. He refused to let it be returned to the library after a few readings. I prefer The Little House to this one, but this is sweet too.
