https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/584460.Scary_Stories_Treasury
Still awesome!These books are filled with short stories written down by the great Alvin Schwartz.
But beware dear reader, these stories may be too scary for you!
I can still remember my friends and I staying up late at night sitting in a circle with a flashlight and these books and taking turns reading our favorite stories to each other.
They are without a doubt the stuff that nightmares are made of.I look forward to seeing what Guillermo del Toro can do to bring these horrorifying images to life on the big screen!As any true lover of horror will tell you, these books are a must to add to your collection.
Just remember to tell these scary stories...
I love these!!!!!:)
I had all three of Schwartz's Scary Stories books as a child, and remember reading them over and over.
The stories are creepy, but what really made this book great were the disturbing images by Stephen Gammell.
I remember staying up late reading these stories and staring at the images with a mixture of fascination and horror.Seriously, pretend you're a ten year old girl for a second and just look at these.
Much to my dismay, I learned that the original version with the images by Stephen Gammell is out of print and has been banned by several institutions!
Stephen Gammell's illustrations MADE this book.
It gets more inspiration from urban legends and creepy superstitions than folktales.Book 2 also has a lot darker of a tone than the first, being preoccupied with death, entrapment, and curses that can't be undone, to the point where it's difficult to believe it was supposed to be a children's book.Best Stories - "The Drum", "One Sunday Morning", "Delicious Meat", "The Window", "Oh, Susannah", "Rings on Her Fingers"Score - 5/5The third and as far as I know, last Scary Stories, is way more unrestrained, and the art is a whole lot more Lovecraftian-looking.
একদম ছোট ছোট ভুতু গলপ। কিছু ভয় জাগায়, কিছু শুধুই খানিকটা শিরশিরানি। আরেকবার পড়তে হবে রাতের বেলায় যখন সবাই ঘুমিয়ে পরে, বাতাসে হালকা পরদা নড়ে, সানসেটের উপড়ে থাকা বিড়ালের বাচচাটা কেঁদে উঠে- তখন!
একদম ছোট ছোট ভুতু গল্প। কিছু ভয় জাগায়, কিছু শুধুই খানিকটা শিরশিরানি। আরেকবার পড়তে হবে রাতের বেলায় যখন সবাই ঘুমিয়ে পরে, বাতাসে হাল্কা পর্দা নড়ে, সানসেটের উপড়ে থাকা বিড়ালের বাচ্চাটা কেঁদে উঠে- তখন!
If you were born in the 80's, there's no way you escaped reading the Scary Stories books when you were young.
This edition collects all three books, along with all those illustrations you remember!
I've pulled it out at several black outs since then to scare my foreign national room mates who recognize some of the stories from versions in their home countries.
As always, what really makes these books are the strange and oozing illustrations by Gammell.
After talking with my room mates, I almost wish there was a 4th book going beyond the Western Ghost stories.
I recently picked up this omnibus of spooky favorites from childhood, including the three “Scary Stories” books by Alvin Schwartz “Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark,” “More Scary Stories to Tell in the Dark,” and “Scary Stories 3: More Tales to Chill Your Bones” and read them for the first time in my adulthood.
For me folklore has a timeless quality that lends itself to telling around a fire in the dark, delighting in imagining all the spooky details.In conclusion, the Scary Stories theory is ideal in my mind for spine tingly story telling for both adults and children at any time of the year, but particularly around Halloween.
It combines all three of the collections, and includes the amazing illustrations by Stephen Gammell that absolutely scared the bejeezus out of me as a child!I have to admit, reading through the stories now, that even as a kid these must have been pretty vanilla.
The short story, "The Wendigo", pays homage to Algernon Blackwood in a way that was lost on me as a child; it gave me chills for far, far longer than any of the others.The real reason this book has such an unshakable soft-spot in my heart, though?The drawings...
Stephen Gammell's artwork gave me nightmares back then that still make me shiver today.
Not too long ago there was announcement that was made that stated Alvin Schwartz’s [god bless his soul] Scary Stories To Tell In The Dark would be making it’s debut on the big screen.
Growing up, I am sure many of you may have seen these books in your local library or bookstore.
However, that hardly stopped us kids from clamoring over these stories.The collection of short stories are still amazing today as they were yesterday, and as many of these stories weren’t particularly horrifying, the tales still seem to hold their own in the current horror genre.read more on Legless Corpse
3 stars, nostalgia 4 starsOpted to reflect where it hit me now instead of nostalgia. It is very fun and engaging, and I honestly did not recall the detailed notes and bibliography (because I probably ignored them as a child). The illustrations continue to be my favorite part about this collection.
Book 1: 4 starsBook 2: 2 starsBook 3: 3.5 starsThis was a nice trip down memory lane (I mean, as "nice" as scary stories go).
I remember reading many of these stories when I was much younger, and coming back to read them all was such a treat.
Some of the pictures are definitely more "scary" than the actual stories.All in all, I'm glad to have taken this journey into my past.
MY favorite part of this book was when the girl went to sleep and the spiders had layed eggs on her face and by the time she woke up her faced was totally destroyed and now i know for a fact that the story was also true because many people had said they were and at that point i was really scared i read this book a year ago and i seemed to like it because it interested me and I kept reading it
This was a cute little Folk Lore/ Urban Legend book. Some of the stories were really entertaining. However some of the stories felt very unfinished or just plain pointless. Some were just there, not scary or funny, somewhat confusing.
The stories are alright, but let's not kid ourselves: the only reason we checked this book out when we were in elementary school was for the sick illustrations. Man, are they fantastic.
I could most definitely credit these books at least partially for my lifelong love affair with the macabre, the spooky, the unknown, the stories told in the dark.They're not gruesome or gory, and a lot of people might call them tame, but they're just the right amount of terror and humor for kids just taking their first forays into the genre, and so many of them are familiar because they're the stories we've told as a species for as long as we've had language to use.
I, personally did not read them because I feared about how "scary" they would.
Now, that I have read this book, I feel like it is not scary at all.
Students older may get bored and think it is "dumb." I did not like how short the stories were.
Although, making the stories longer could have made the book more scary and controversial, for sure.
Lastly, I liked how the book had different types of stories.
I think this was neat because it is important to teach students different types of writings and show them that they could tell a story in many ways/formats.
The stories are so-so, but the illustrations are great as ever.
I wrote a whole thing about the replacements: https://litreactor.com/columns/the-18...There was a section in these books, an afterword that told the origin of some of the stories.
I skipped that as a kid, but it was kind of interesting as an adult.
The most interesting thing was the claim that Mark Twain sometimes read this story where a ghost constantly asks "Whooooo has my toe?" and walks around, and eventually the storyteller grabs someone in the crowd and says, "YOU!" Apparently Mark Twain thought this was a fun thing to read aloud at events.
There are some good stories, some OK stories, and some not-so-good stories in this anthology. I enjoyed the good ones, skimmed the OK ones, and skipped the others.
It's hard for me to remember what scared me more as a kid: the stories or the illustrations.
Both are absolutely terrifying (especially the cover!) and when I was little, my older brother would read these books to me because I was too scared to even touch them.
I grabbed this edition, mainly out of nostalgia, but also because I read somewhere that all 3 books will be re-released, but with new, odds are, totally lame illustrations and I want to scare the shit out of my niece in a couple years when she's old enough.
Fantastic and fucking scary children's book!

I've read this book so many times (like 80 probably wouldn't be much of an exaggeration – I've been reading it since 3rd grade: my friends and I used to read these to each other so often we all had the best ones memorized (I've been reading it at least once a year since elementary school for nostalgia)), and every single time I finish it, I'm appalled and so, so satisfied by how horrifying some of these short little stories are. Folk lore is fascinating.
For about 2 years, I have been loving horror books. My father read this book to me and it was very funny, but also scary. I had scary experiences reading this book. I actually imagined being the main characters in each story. Although it was scary, it is also very funny. I would recommend this book to other people.
These books were so popular when I was growing up. I'm easily scared, and these creeped me out for weeks. I bought this compilation as an adult, and most of the stories were familiar. It's enjoyable for both adults and children.
I used to love these book as a kid. They were terrifying and my sister or my friends and I would read them in the dark and we wouldn't be able to sleep for hours afterwards. The illustrations really were what made it scary- they inspired a few nightmares for me, that's for sure!
this book was awsome but some of the stories gave me the creeps for days after. and to anyone reading it if you come to the story about Harold... don't read! i still get creeped out, that story is so twisted!
I love this book ever since I was a little girl. It scard me at nights when I should have been sleeping. Its a collection of scary legeds or true stories. The art work is unbeliveably great. Classic bed times stories that will keep you up all night.
These three books were my favorite reads as a child in elementary school! I have always enjoyed a good scare, and I can remember reading these over and over in my dimly lit room at night before bed. The stories were spooky and the artwork was, and still is, captivating.
fuck the stories. get it for Stephen Gammell's beautiful artwork! this book is the main influence on all of my art.
3.5
The BEST collection of scary folktales. I still whip it out on Halloween to read them aloud at parties.
