https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229145.Cardcaptor_Sakura_Vol_1
Oh the memories!This was honestly more of a 3.5 star read for me, but I decided to bump it up for the nostalgia.
Siempre es bueno volver a lo que te hace feliz. Y Sakura es una de esas cosas.
CHILDHOOD I LOVE YOUYou bet your sweet ass I've read this 50+ times, the beginning of CS was perfect.
Me encanto leer a Sakura, volver a ese punto de la infancia cuando veía el anime y recordarlo ahora fue genial, me hizo reír en varias partes y me encanta Sakura, como ve a Yukito, es muy divertido, un poco infantil, si, pero bastante entretenido.
Es tan graciosa Sakura quedándose dormida todos los días, las peleas con el hermano cuando le dice dinosaurio o algo incorrecto delante de Yukito ella le pega, y Kero pensando solo en comer, lindo revivir esta historia....Me acuerdo que de chica veía el anime por Cartoon Network (buenos tiempos) y hace unos tres años lo volví a ver y shipear a Sakura y Shaoran, aunque sea infantil quiero volver a revivir esta historia hermosa<3
After years, Elex decided to reprint this manga, and I decided to collect it.Cardcaptor Sakura is probably the manga that makes me adore CLAMP.
I truly love the concepts of collecting magical cards.
And I also love most of Sakura's outfits (made by Tomoyo, her bestie...
it's hard to believe a little girl can make those complicated outfits!).Reading it again, I noticed several things I didn't really care the first time.
Though the main characters are children (elementary school students), there are complex issues raised, such as shoujo-ai and shounen-ai, also romantic relationship between a student (4th grader) and her teacher.
You can call me old school, but these things irritate my conscience.
I finally got around to reading this (strangely enough I decided to do that after rewatching the first episode ever of Sailor Moon) and I must say I'm surprised at how different it is from the anime.
I thought it wouldn't be that much, but even the same cards have different capturing plots.
And it apparently wasn't Sakura's fault all the cards flew away in the first place.
But I guess it's understandable that the manga would have a tighter plot and the anime would have more filler episodes.
Soy fan de Sakura CC desde niña. Tengo toda la serie y las dos películas en DVD, las cuales solía ver una y otra vez hasta volver loca a mi hermana con mis gritos de "¡libérate!". Shaoran fue mi primer amor (no shame). E inclusive tengo mi propio juego de Cartas Clow. Y, a pesar de todo eso, esta es la primera vez que leo el manga (no tengo idea de porqué no lo leí antes), y tal vez es mi fanatismo hablando, pero: es genial.
Recuerdos de infancia en 3, 2, 1!! Es verdad que si ves primero el anime te quedas con ganas de que el manga sea más largo y detallado, ya que tienen diferencias importantes, pero tanto el manga como el anime me encantan!

This is one of the best manga of my childhood, I LOVE, LOVE, LOVE, LOVE This Book SO MUCH!!!
<3This book gave me the freedom of imagination, and it helped developed many ideas for my own stories!!
The story plot of this manga, to me and my friends, was also very good and interesting!It puts together the magical realm together with the human world, it also goes through many stageds of life, school, friendship and love.Would definitely recommend this manga or any written by CLAMP, their books expresses a lot of things, and would definitely interest many readers with their work.CCS IS THE BEST!!!

I remembered really liking Sakura, despite some... issues with later relationships. None of that is here in the first volume, though. Here it's pure, innocent fluff, which is what I always liked about it. The art is very, very cute, and the characters are very likeable. I like how straightforward the plot is (catch the cards!) and how we go straight into the action without an entire volume of backstory. I'll definitely continue re-reading the series. (Though I can't remember if I ever managed to read all of the volumes in the first place...)
re-read after many, maaaaany years! Still as cute, funny and heartwarming as always!
The creativity and art placed into this manga is just really fantastic to read and the whole time it had just a nice, pleasant, and soft tone throughout the whole story.
Even when he's being yelled at by his late wife's cousin, he is still smiling, has a pleasant look on his face, and is just so nice.The other characters are a lot of fun.
Yukito is your typical nice guy and the fact that he eats anything he wants and never gets fat MAKES ME SO ANGRY!
fist off, the first series is only 6 books, the second one is only six too, and this kind of surprised me at first because the anime had something like 50 episodes, and after reading the manga i saw how much filler was in the anime.
people might make a big deal about it here, which is probably why they took it out of the anime, but it’s so subdued and platonic that taking it out is kind of pointless.
overall its a cute manga, i mean those who’ve watched the anime already know the basic story line, its a good one.
--- Cardcaptor Sakura 1-12 ---Plot: OkGambar: Gambar manis dan background manis menambah kadar kemanisan komik ini.Penokohan: OkKonsepnya unik dan menyegarkan, gambarnya manis, penuhnya para pasangan di komik ini, dan fakta tamat dalam 12 buku dengan ending yang manis pula membuat saya tetap suka buku ini sampai sekarang (meski tidak sesuka dulu tentunya).
dulu saya membacanya hanya sekedar membaca.
Tapi menurutku meski pasangan-pasangannya beragam dan ada yang tanda kutip, buku ini tetap tidak masalah biar dibaca anak-anak.
Toh dari awal buku ini memang untuk pembaca muda.Untuk semua kenangan masa kecil yang masih berbekas kental, saya memberikan...[10/10]
I saw a few episodes of the anime, and I'm surprised by how charming the manga is. I'm actually really looking forward to tracking down and reading the rest. Sakura proved to be adorable in her pursuit of the Clow. It made me wish I had a friend that wants to play dress up in all sort of costumes. haha!
I grew up watching the anime, but could never remember how it ended.
My review pertains to all 12 volumes.Why You Might Bump This Down On Your TBR: The strangest elements of this manga are the normalized child/adult (student/teacher) relationships from Sakura's parents to Sakura's friend and teacher.
This is even stranger when one of the adult characters calls Sakura's dad out for his behaviors of seducing and marrying a child being disgusting.
Tomoyo tells the reader that she's in romantic love with Sakura, Touya and Yuki end up together, and Syaoran is attracted to Yuki and Sakura throughout the series.
3,5 stars.I have the entire collection so I'm planning on reading them before the year ends. Since it's the first volume of the series, which was published in 1996, sometimes I found the drawing too confusing. Maybe it's because I'm not really used to read mangas with some sort of action or 'fighting' so when Sakura was trying to capture the Clow Cards, it was difficult for me to follow.Apart from that, I loved it. Everything reminded me of my childhood when I used to watch the anime every single day... so much memories!
One of my childhood memories, finally i can collect this manga! Just as typical magic girl story, this manga is about Sakura Kinomoto, 4 grade in elementary school and her daily life that also including to catch magical creatures and seal it in Clowcard. I always admire Clamp's artwork, it's so beautiful! Going to read the next volume of this manga to know another adventure of Sakura!
In love!!! He visto la serie tres o cuatro veces a lo largo de mi niñez/adolescencia y ahora, 15 años después, encontrar los cómics me ha hecho muchísima ilusión; nostalgia pura! Así que aquí estoy, reviviendo la historia de Sakura ♥
Ayyy, me encantó. He visto Sakura dos veces cuando era niña y nunca pensé leer el manga, pero estuvo súper divertidoo!!!
First shoujo anime I have ever watch. I love this series. The manga is awesome.. the anime is awesome... This is just awesome...
Amo este manga, nunca me cansaria de leerlo y releerlo
Ah... feels...I remember when I was a kid, I didn't want to go to the church because I didn't want to fall behind of Sakura's weekly anime on the TV.15 years later, I'm still having the same feeling about all of the characters. Sakura and the gang still capable of creating a happy bubble for my adult self.PS. I will be patiently waiting until Eriol comes to the school.#SakuraEriolshipper
Everything is captured on film by Sakura's best friend, Tomoyo Daidouji, who also sews all of the fancy costumes she wears while capturing Cards.This series can be quite amusing at times, but a bit odd at others.
For example, Sakura's mother is dead.
I didn't realize that it wasn't the Eiffel Tower until quite a ways into the series, when I had been thinking that she lived in some made-up combination of Japan and France, and then I felt like an idiot.Often it feels like the main characters are too young to be doing everything they're doing.
Cardcaptor Sakura was one of the first mainstream, I guess you could call it, texts (visual and textual/anime and manga) that I encountered to explicitly portray a wide range of sexuality and re-reading the series has made me truly appreciative of that fact.
(I also wish the mangaka had written one successful lesbian couple in the series instead of only having two female characters continuing to pine (unrequited) for their female best friends and I can't help but read something in that.)But you know, Cardcaptor Sakura is *fun*.
They also took a lot of Sakura's back story out of the anime, I'm told, to target more of a boy audience, seeing as that's the target audience of most anime that's dubbed into English.
The reason I gave this manga a 4 out of 5 is not because I didn't enjoy the story, because I LOVE the idea behind the story.
I felt like there was too much going on in each scene, and on each page.
Sakura is in grade 4?
I feel like that's a real stretch of the imagination.
2, but I'm not buying the grade 4 thing!
Reason to read CCS Cardcaptor Sakura (if you haven't already *shocked expression*):It's by CLAMP - only one of the most amazing manga-kas ever!The characters - OMG, CCS is full of amazing characters you'll love & care about - Sakura, Syaoran, Kero, (view spoiler)[Yue (hide spoiler)], Tomoyo, Touya - the list goes on & on.
It's because of Sakura & Syaoran that I love Tsubasa: RESERVoir CHRoNiCLE, Vol. 1.The cutest little outfits EVER!
I find it refreshing.Did I mention it's by CLAMP?& lastly - Sakura & Syaoran are the cutest couple EVER.PS - I might have gone overboard with the use of EVER.
