https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34565022-braving-the-wilderness
She phoned this one in. There's good stuff in here because she's awesome, but there's not enough to warrant a new book. I do wish she would try again to think through tribe and inclusion. Her insights are good and useful, but there is no coherent theory or story here.
I gave this book five stars because as usual Brown has done her research, and she is a masterful storyteller.
These are the two passions of my life: research and storytelling.I'm a Licensed Professional Counselor and an author, so I devour Brown's books.
One of the cruelest people was an author who wrote a book (that I purchased) about how we need to listen to peoples' stories so we can understand their points of view.
I stopped listening and stopped caring what the opposing side had to say.With that as my history, I found Brown's research about dehumanization helpful.
read by Breen Brown Note: I enjoyed this so much that I’m considering buying the Audiobook.There may be thousands of people around the world who are huge fans .....and even though I had read one of her books ( wasn’t all that impressed), and later listened to one of her Audiobook’s ( I was much more impressed), I still didn’t consider myself a fan of her work - and quite frankly I really didn’t really ‘get’ what her deal was in the world.
Paul, my husband, was equally as impressed with Brene Brown on this Audiobook as I was.
Huge disappointment.
My partner who read the book with me pointed out that Brown mentions that she has a problem with not giving uninformed opinions on political topics but then she goes and does exactly that with much of this book.
This is white liberal centrist lady kumbaya bullshit.
She doesn't seem to understand how systemic violence works or oppression.
There's an extreme amount of false equivalency in the book.
Additionally, the book was extremely smug and prescriptive.
For people who are actively engaged in resisting fascism and state violence, I would definitely skip this book.
Sorry Brene Brown, you lost me on this one. I love you but all I could think throughout this was "easy for you to say, white middle class Christian lady."
I picked up this book because it was listed as a must-read book by someone I respect and whose tastes are similar to mine. I went to it completely blind and when the author mentioned Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling in the opening chapter I knew I was going to like it.  “The mark of a wild heart is living out the paradox of love in our lives. It’s the ability to be tough and tender, excited and scared, brave and afraid—all in the same moment. It’s showing up in our vulnerability and our courage, be
I went to it completely blind and when the author mentioned Harry Potter and J.K. Rowling in the opening chapter I knew I was going to like it.
If you want to learn more about the author Brené Brown you can watch her TED Talk video "The Power of Vulnerability".
~~~EDIT: forgot to mention I listened to the audiobook which is narrated by the author, I like it when authors read their own books.
Also, there is a HUGE Harry Potter spoiler (book 6)
That spoiler section really moved me, it touched me and brought tears to my eyes, really loved it.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Brene Brown’s new book “Braving The Wilderness” is her most vital and necessary book yet.
Through her research studies, personal experiences, and case studies combined with her remarkable perceptiveness and wisdom she provides essential directions through the wilderness of loneliness and disconnection.
In today’s climate of divisiveness and separation, this is a book everyone should read.
As evidenced by her massively popular TED talks and books, her writing style and the accompanying research resonate with people and feed a real hunger for understanding, hope, and healing.
Highly recommended.Thank you to Random House and NetGalley for an advance copy of this book.
A few friends had loved Daring Greatly, and now that I have read and appreciated Braving the Wilderness, I'm ready to give another Brown book a try.However, I will admit this isn't a perfect book.
It's a good book to read during these divisive political times, and I would recommend this book to anyone trying to survive the Trump era with their mental health intact.Favorite Quote"Stop walking through the world looking for confirmation that you don't belong.
True belonging and self-worth are not goods; we don't negotiate their value with the world.
It ended TOO SOON. *cries silently*Brown's words are life-affirming, challenging. Her books tend to re-verberate in my soul, in my mind--so I'm actively savoring them as I go about my day. I belong to myself--and I belong to no one. Speak truth to bullshit. Be civil. Pithy, perhaps--cliched, maybe. But there's simplicity in the brevity here, as one knows Brown has done an avalanche worth of data analysis to back up her simplified phrases.
As if rushed for a deadline.I like the ideas of being brave with one's conviction, and willing to put yourself out there, even if you're alone to stand up for what you believe, but this still felt very *white* and from a protected, "majority" space.Two pieces that frustrated me.A) At one point, Brown tells the story of a pastor that speaks up for LGBTQ rights.
If you're coming from a not-majority space though, it may not feel as connected as you may wish it to be.My last point that frustrated me is that I wish Brown showed more data.
Although I like Brene Brown, I have to admit that this book was quite a bit of a letdown for me. I was looking for so much more. I don't feel that there was enough "new" information to warrant a new book, let alone a 163 page book that has a $28 price tag attached to it. In the end, Brene published a book on the backs of the numerous people that she quotes throughout the short book. I'm not impressed.
I usually love Brene's books, but this one just didn't seem to move me like the others have. I don't fully understand why she felt the need to make it so political. The same points could have been made, in my opinion, without them.
“Stop walking through the world looking for confirmation that you don’t belong.
You will always find it because you’ve made that your mission.
You will always find it because you’ve made that your goal.
True belonging and self-worth are not goods; we don’t negotiate their value with the world.
Our call to courage is to protect our wild heart against constant evaluations, especially our own.
No one belongs here more than you.”This was my first time reading anything by Brené Brown, but I can envision myself reading more of her work in the future.
The best description I have for Brene' Browns' books is she is constantly dropping truth bombs on my head and Braving the Wilderness is no exception.
"But the more we're willing to to seek out moments of collective joy and show up for experiences of collective pain-for real, in person, not online-the more difficult it becomes to deny our human connection, even with people we may disagree with.
Not only do moments of collective emotion remind us of what is possible between people, but they also remind us of what is true about the human spirit.
In this book, Brene is talking much more about belonging, or the feeling of not belonging.
I didn’t fit in.And now, for the first time, I didn’t belong to my family either.Brene is talking about the importance of belonging.
That’s because it has the power to break our heart, our spirit, and our sense of self-worth.
And she does feel like there is some explanation to it, that should make sense.
She talked about it also in The Power of Vulnerability: Teachings of Authenticity, Connections and Courage.
But no one shall be tried to be moved to a place where they don't feel themselves anymore.
Of course, since Brown has made a career of studying vulnerability and shame, reading her book challenged me a lot and made me consider some uncomfortable ideas.
It’s a simple metaphor to express a simple idea, that we can only control ourselves and not the people or systems around us, but I realized I had been wasting a godawful lot of energy trying to bend and contort and force my world to be more accommodating of me, when what I should have been doing was armoring myself up a little bit.
quick and easy read that gave me some solid things to work on and think about. perfect book for me right now.
Three stars instead of four because the book is very short; it felt like she was just starting to get into the good stuff when it ended, much to my disappointment.
I kinda hated it.
I don’t understand why she chose to talk about American politics for half the book.
I’m not American, and as much as am aware of what’s happening on that side of the world, I have no interest in reading about it.
I felt like it was shoved down my throat.
It started out really well.
Also, I think I might’ve confused this book for something else.
I thought she was working on a book called wholehearted living.
I have no idea why I thought that but I assumed this book was going to be about that.
DAYUM, Brené Brown’s “Braving the Wilderness: The Quest for True Belonging and the Courage to Stand Alone” is so good, important, and timely.
But it turns out to be the place of true belonging, and it's the bravest and most sacred place you will ever stand." — Brené Brown, Braving the Wilderness: The Quest for True Belonging and the Courage to Stand Alone.Brené’s inspiration for writing this book was the following Maya Angelou quote: “You are only free when you realize you belong no place – you belong every place – no place at all.
Perhaps someone calls bullshit on that but, as much as I wish this book had been longer, it really hit hard on some stuff I've been thinking about relating to connection, to discourse, and to how divided we have become as a people (I already see people reading this review and stopping here because they're ready to call me a hippie white liberal living on cloud nine -- sure, I fit a few of those, but I'm also deeply devoted to change, to equality, to compassion, to empathy, and to putting my money where my mouth is in order to enact change toward this...I'm doing what I can to ensure I'm less of an asshole than I could be.
I won't go into too much detail as to why I liked the book. The book is short and to the point. Many, many sections stood out to me. I will highlight some of my favorites.  "Today we are edging closer and closer to a world where political and ideological discourse has become an exercise in dehumanization. And social media are the primary platforms for our dehumanizing behavior. On Twitter and Facebook we can rapidly push the people with whom we disagree into the dangerous territory of moral excl
"Today we are edging closer and closer to a world where political and ideological discourse has become an exercise in dehumanization.
In order for slavery to work, in order for us to buy, sell, beat, and trade people like animals, Americans had to completely dehumanize slaves.
90 Pretty much the entire section titled "BULLSHIT"My favorite quotes of all:
"Stop walking through the world looking for confirmation that you don't belong.
Stop scouring people's faces for evidence that you're not enough.
True belonging and self-worth are not goods; we don't negotiate their value with the world.
The truth about who we are lives in our hearts.
“Stop walking through the world looking for confirmation that you don’t belong.
You will always find it because you’ve made that your mission.
You will always find it because you’ve made that your goal.
True belonging and self-worth are not goods; we don’t negotiate their value with the world.
The truth about who we are lives in our hearts.
Our call to courage is to protect our wild heart against constant evaluation, especially our own.
True belonging doesn’t require you to change who you are; it requires you to be who you are.”
Each Monday, on my day off from work, I choose one short book that I hope will be restorative or nourishing in some way, and I read it from cover to cover.
Had she developed her thoughts a little more, I might have either directly disagreed or come around to her way of thinking.
She suggests this line of thinking, but she does so in fragmented ways that seem more like contradiction than development.Also, I don't feel like everyone can or should reach the shiny levels of self-realization from which Brown writes.
I believe a level of civility has disappeared with the advent of social media; people are much more apt to hide behind a computer screen and spout off opinions, not caring what someone else thinks or feels.
As Brown writes, "Today we are edging closer and closer to a world where political and ideological discourse has become an exercise in dehumanization." Facebook has become such a volatile place, that I spend most of my time on Instagram.
Finding the courage to speak your truth is sometimes lonely.
Oh. My. Gosh. Amazing. I didn't think it was possible for Brene to raise the bar even more, but she did. Everything I needed to hear and have felt. A MUST read!
Not my favorite of Brown's work, but there are some good points throughout and much to debate and discuss. A bit too political for my taste, I mean can we have a break please?
I especially loved the part about having integrity and what that looks like.
We need more of that especially in the political arena.------------------------------------------I can see how people either love this book or hate it.
Both of those together, gets 5 stars and I would read this again.We are definitely in different camps on some of the topics she mentioned, but she wasn't hostile or pointing fingers.
The world, especially when considering the current political climate, could use more of that.
I've read some of the other reviews and found out she was more books.....so woohoo....I need to log into my library and see what they have.
Brené Brown is probably my favorite non-fiction writer. Her stuff is always so good!! This one was so short that after reading it, I bought the audiobook and listened to it. So good both times!! I love when she narrates her own stuff. While after a reading everything she's put out, most of her stuff does get a tad repetitive, this was the exception. Everything here feels so fresh and new. Highly recommend this book and just about anything else she has put out.
Update Jan 2018:I read this back in September of last year and forgot to update my review. It was fantastic as always!July 2017:Can't wait to read this!!
