https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/793399.Stray
The thing is, someone is hunting the tabbies, female werecats, and so Faythe's Father makes her come home from college so she can be protected by her numerous brothers and the enforcers working for him.At the best of times, Faythe is mildly retarded.
But Faythe gets it into her head that she wants to live outside the Pride so she tries to negotiate with her Father to leave.
The only thing that makes me want to read more are the male characters.
Faythe makes me want to strangle her though so I don't know how much more I can put up with.
*cuing guitar riff for musical review*MARC & JACE:Well we guess it would be niceIf we could lick your cat fur'Cause you can make a tom purrNo hotter furry than you.JACE: But I've got to think twice Before Marc beats me 'til I dieThat shit hurts; I ain't gonna lieMaybe a kiss or two...FAYTHE:Oh, but I need some time offTo go to grad schoolI'll read some books and send my dad the bill.And when the mean EnforcersDrag my ass home, yeahI'll forget about my boyfriend,And get all up in your grill.'Cause I gotta be Faythe...
She's gotta be Faythe, Faythe, Faythe.2.5 stars.
I’m Too Stupid to Live and So Can You! A Checklist, By FaytheWhen sensing a threat to your person, I find it’s best to do the following:1. Get rid of any potential witnesses. If you’re about to get your ass kicked they could double as rescuers and how can you expect to get kidnapped or die a grizzly death with that type of pesky interference?2. Forget calling for backup. Who wants to be told to do boring things like “Stay in a well-lit area” or “Get inside and lock the doors”?3. Find the darkes
Find the darkest alley possible and proceed directly to it, especially if it’s nighttime and you’re somewhere with heavy foot traffic, like a college campus.
Oh, but make sure you don’t actually follow through with this because who wants to hear bad advice like “Run” or “Call the cops” when you have bigger things to worry about?7.
If the person who wants to kidnap/rape/kill you doesn’t take advantage of your busy hands and downcast eyes, start walking forward again.
You might want to press your advantage here because he’s now doubled over and bleeding profusely but there are better things to do.
I think I gave it a fair chance, didn’t I?Our heroine in this story is a 23-year-old werecat named Faythe.
She wants to live on her own somewhere far away from her pack mates because she feels like she’s not respected among them.
Back home, she’s restless and unhappy and shows her disapproval of the general situation by being a major pain in the ass and to make things at least a little bit interesting for her she decides to kill some time by playing with the feelings of the two guys who love her.
I also had a hard time relating to Faythe.
Faith is a perfectly acceptable name apart from the Pavlovian upchuck reflex it gives me when it reminds me of Faith from Buffy and Angel.The concept is of an over protective Pride of werelions and the pride daughter, Faythe, who is desperately trying to assert her independence when a psycho tabby kidnapper (they call female werelions "tabbies" because I can only assume their feline natures makes it impossible to treat women with any kind of respect or equality) show up and forces Faythe back to her family home for another good ol' fashioned dose of being oppressed and held captive by her own family.Right.
June 12, 2016Yup still 5/5 stars duh but Rogue here I come!Feb 11, 20165/5 starsY'all I don't even know how to express how much I enjoyed this damn book.Already ordered the rest of the books in the series!!
They'd already become one of the enemies in my mind when they tried to bully Faythe into marrying Marc, and her father enjoyed asserting his authority over her and proving that he would always 'win'.I've come to accept that a lot of Were novels play on the idea that women are seen as weak and inferior within a Pack or Pride (whether true or not), but I repeatedly wanted to tear my hair out in frustration when Faythe's wishes were laughed at because she is female.
I finished this book in one sitting. I could not put it down. I grew up reading urban fantasy and this felt so nostalgic to me. I loved our sassy main character and the witty banter between all of the characters. There were parts of the plot that were a little predictable, but I was okay with that and found it as more of a comfort. I adore urban fantasy and am so happy to have rediscovered the genre with this series.
DNF. I had only 1 hour and 25 minutes left of the audiobook when I decided I wasn't curious enough to care about the resolution of the plot, so I quit. After a few hours of listening I started to lose interest in the book since the storyline was very predictable, the book had way too much unnecessary information and there were mayor issues with the main character and the foundation of the story.Faythe The female main character. I don’t believe her character was well formed and that affected the
This fact to me shows lack of character development or lack of character achievement, Faythe should have come across as someone more open-minded to other ways and as someone who wants more and different from what she has or is expected of her, not as someone who is constantly surprised, frustrated and resisting something she should have seen as normal, accepted and simply tried to find a way to mashed with her mindset and search of a different way of being.Story The plot is more or less that tabbies are being killed and Faythe has to go back home so she can be protected; but the real story revolves around Faythe, around the fact that she is resistant to her fate, resistant to whom she was born to be due to where she was born and what she was born as.
Especially Faythe, who is the 23 year old heroine in this story and I couldn't handle how goddamned immature she acted.
I have read heroines who have acted more mature at the age of 15.
On top of that she was stupid, irrational, obnoxious, cocky, acted like she was better than everyone else and down right selfish.
NO HEROINE should act like that...
As for the hero, I absolutely did not like Marc either.
The plot was crap, the story telling was crap, it was complete and utterly predictable and it was...Boring.
I have nothing good to say about this book.
(Yes, werecats.) In fact it has almost exactly the same premise as Kelley Armstrong's book...Girl flees uber-intense 'were' family to live alone in the 'real' world.
And there is this one super intense alpha male...her ex.
Generally, girl disobeys orders and flees and ends up kicking ass all on her own, thank you very much.
So everyone now believes in her and she finally has an epiphany and realizes that she was in love with 'alpha male' all along.Yup. Formula is formula though and it sells for a reason: mindless escapist entertainment.
And it is entertaining, the first half especially.
Had to redo this review after reading my original review from last year and finding it to be pretty crappy and non-informative.Stray is the start of a fun, action packed series featuring a very kick butt heroine and a yummy love triangle.
Vincent made me feel as if I was shifting right along with Faythe.I actually enjoyed the series from book 1, but some people don't start feeling the love until around the third book.
Even with this being over a year later and reading other series that I have liked better, I refuse to drop my original 4 star rating for book 1.
I like this series!
I don’t know what it means to represent?
I guess we ended up reading different books because I sure as hell can’t find anything good about this one.Stray starts out with the worst introduction on the face of the planet.
Unlike most of my fellow tabby cats, I knew how to fight; my father had made sure of that.
I was feeling foolish now, chasing a stranger down a dark alley at night, like some bimbo from a bad horror film.
I’m still in the first chapter and I can tell you’re not even remotely close to a monster.
Really good! Ended nicely although the whole series is out and in my hands so a cliffhanger doesn't bother me now anyway. I love Faythe and Marc. I hope they aren't gonna be on again off again through the whole series.
The werecats are led by Faythe’s father, in a kind of mafia-like arrangement of leadership and enforcers.
Faythe is in danger, yet she decides that this is the right time to negotiate with her father for her independence and freedom.
Faythe is independent (at times), impulsive, petulant, and a little bit spoiled.
I loved the descriptions of the werecats, their changes, and their mannerisms.
I wanted to add that those of you out there that may be annoyed by Faythe - keep reading - the last 3 books in the series were quite an emotional and action packed ride.
It was so long that I finally gave up.
AND MY GOD this book was long...
way longer then it needed to be so this is a no.
Cats don't mate for life that's wolves but she has them doing just that and then doesn't explain it?
She also took alot from Bitten by Kelley Armstrong about limited women born and what not...
Explain why there were only so many woman born or just give up and say you took the idea from Kelley who did a much better job at writing it.
Although, I have seen this series being touted as ‘feminist’, and like, uhhhh no?Ostensibly, Stray is ‘feminist’ because our lead, Faythe, lives and rebels against the most laughable and cartoonish of all werewolf – I mean wearcat – patriarchies, in which female werecats – called, I shit you not, fucking tabbies – are not only SUPER RARE, but also VITAL to the stability of werecat society…in that the men they choose as mates are the ones who become the Alphas and lead the Prides, make all the decisions, uphold the werecat Masquerade, etc, etc.So you know, they’re a PRECIOUS COMMODITY, MAN, and tradition has kept them home, barefoot and pregnant, under the guise of keeping them safe from all those dirty “strays”, or Pride-less werecats who lurk in cities, looking for women-cats to rape.Man, I thought I knew Cartoonishly Extreme World Rules Set Up to Make Bare-Minimum Female Agency Seem Revolutionary, but I did not truly know that thing I just said until I knew Stray.Anyway, naturally our protagonist Faythe – presumably pronounced “faith” and not rhymes-with-lathe – doesn’t want to deal with any of that shit.
From the scarily obvious use of South America to explain away the Bad Guys (with obligatory traitors-in-their-midst so it doesn't look too much like racial (and political) profiling), to the Grown Men acting like fourteen-year-olds - how many brand names can we fit into Faythe's description of their abode, where they eat pizza, drink beer and play video games - and never clean up, of course, 'cause that's just not manly - except WAIT!
A lot of PNR/UF runs the risk of falling into cliche territory, and sometimes flat-out biting other storylines, but there's got to be some twist or redeeming quality that makes me want to read this over that -- what does one offer that another doesn't, that makes me need to read it?
I never really got that extra something from this, even though I help on for 620+ pages.
I have an inkling there may be something coming that will interest me, but do I want to slog through 5 more books to get it?
Re-read in 2010: Still loved the book. If anything, re-reading made me like the character of Jace even more...---I stayed up all night reading this book. It got to be too exciting and I had to know how the main character would get out of the situation she was in.I will say that I liked the secondary love interest better than the main one. I don't know if the next book in the series features the same characters, but if it does, I will cheer him on. Go Jace!
liked this one. Faythe is a cat shifter wanting some autonomy from her pride. She tries to live among humans until a crisis forces her home. Faythe has to deal with who she is, who she wants to be and who she can be in the future. A good book 1 so I went ahead and bought book 2.
Faythe is good at challenging the misogynistic views of the werecat culture and is already beginning to realise the errors in some of her views, such as thinking that because her mother chose to be a mother above all else, she has no power.
This book does make some great points.So, while Faythe seems to say a lot of good things in her own head, she doesn’t really show it in her actions.
I did want to briefly mention this to see if anyone else picked up the same, because it’s a pretty big deal if I’m right.I do think I’ll continue because there are good aspects to this story and I am 100% rooting for Faythe’s other, far better love interest.
Her father sends Parker, Marc, Ethan, Owen, and Lucas to go get Faythe and Abby, making Jace stay at home since Marc beat him badly, and then talks to Ryan, working out a small deal with him.
I did not like that Marc gets his way in the end with Faythe choosing him.Jace, however, I completely love.
While it's true that he beat on Faythe and tried to rape her and Marc and Ethan were avenging her, I feel that Vic and Lucas should have been the ones allowed to kill Miguel.
For the last 5 years she has been at college but when she is attacked by a stray this gives her over-protective family the perfect excuse to bring her home.Faythe is a brilliant character - she is smart & tough but she has plenty of flaws too.
Back at home Faythe discovers she isn't the only one who has been attacked - 2 of her fellow tabbies are missing and she is determined to find out what has happened to them.
I was a little nervous about reading it because it is so long and I have seen such mixed reviews about the series.
She is also one of only 8 unmated tabbies or females in the US.
I thought this book had a great mix of action and pretty good amount of romance.
It is like it is Faythe against the world even when she know in her mind it is not the best thing for her well being.All in all a great read.✳✳ Reviewed on I ♥ Bookie Nookie Reviews___________________________________________________If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups.
Still, the back blurb promised an entertaining story that seemed right up my alley – a woman as the protagonist, prized because she’s rare, forced home to a pack she’s trying to escape because of danger tearing through her newly established safety net.The shapeshifter world in the Rachel Vincent novels are woven creatively enough; society has no idea the creatures exist behind the human faces and swift justice is delivered to those who dare risk the species unmasking.
Werepanthers are usually born, almost always through the alpha pair since females are so rarely made.At the timing of the story, there are six tabbies total in population of the civilized surrounding societies.
I think this is the fourth time I’ve read this book and I still love it. I love Faythe, I love Marc, and I also love Jace! Faythe does have her moments when she really shouldn’t be arguing or negotiating and thinking instead, but she’s still such a great character.The storyline in this is really good! It can be a little slow in places, but most of the time there’s action and sexual tension. So good!
Faythe is one of the rare female werecats in North America.
In werecat society, she is only good for her uterus (something that really bugged me throughout the book).
In part because of that, Faythe has been rebelling and fighting for her freedom from her family and their expectations.
When some of the other females in society start going missing, she is forced to come home for protection.
As Faythe struggles against the perceived cage of her place in the family/society, she falls victim to a dangerous "stray" that has been collecting females for his own ugly purposes.
It took me a while to get into this book.
