https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/180671.Ego_and_Archetype
If a person feels inferior and depressed in the presence of people who are more intelligent, who have read more books, who have traveled more, who are more famous, or who are more skillful or knowledgeable in art, music or politics, or any other human endeavor, then that person is making the mistake of identifying some particular aspect or function of himself with his essential individuality.
If such a person can experience the fact that his individuality and personal worth are beyond all particular manifestation his security will no longer be threatened by the accomplishments of others.” “To be related to one’s individuality means to accept all that is encountered within as meaningful and significant aspects of the single whole.
(The Bollingen stone, carved by Jung) (The World Soul by Robert Fludd; “The Anima as personification of the ego-Self axis transmits guidance and support to the ego from the archetypal psyche”. ) (Jacob's ladder by William Blake)"The Self is the ordering (unifying) center of the total psyche (conscious and unconscious) just as the ego is the center of the conscious personality. The ego is the seat of the subjective identity while the Self is the seat of the objective identity".  Representing 10
(The World Soul by Robert Fludd; “The Anima as personification of the ego-Self axis transmits guidance and support to the ego from the archetypal psyche”.
(Jacob's ladder by William Blake)"The Self is the ordering (unifying) center of the total psyche (conscious and unconscious) just as the ego is the center of the conscious personality.
Quite evidently, it is a very Christian analogy for explaining psychic/soul phenomenology.The book offers an abundant collection of paintings and Christian analogies to explain personality [ego/self] development.
Dream analysis abounds.The last part of the book is dedicated to another rich symbol of the Self: the Philosopher’s stone, the ultimate goal of the Alchemy.
He was, in the old C.I.A. phrase, "experienced" as regards hallucinagens and he did have a hermeneutical talent for translating religion into modern secular language--his father having been a pastor.The language he chose to utilize at the outset of his professional career was that of psychiatry and this association, as well as my own unhappinesses, led me to embark on a decade of its study.
(It should, however, be noted that modern American psychoanalysis, because of its commitment to medical models and training, is not entirely subject to such criticism.)Jung's personality had an immense influence on his system and on his followers.
The emphasis of individuation theory is on later life, adulthood through old age, "stages" of life not much addressed by classical psychoanalysis.
What a rich reading!
Edinger really breaks down individuation and integrates powerful support direct from various texts of Jung.
What stands out to me is Edinger's examination at what the individual faces in dreams, the shadow, and through symbols/archetypes.
Through the use of examples of patient's dreams, he both shows us the richness of the psyche and how to begin to understand the images it brings to us.
I read this for my class on Jungian psychology.
I highly recommend it to anyone interested in this field!"To be aware of individuality is to realize that one has all that one needs.
This is not one of the beginners guides that throw all the theories at you in a short space of time resulting in information overload.It is a more lucid attempt at getting to the core of the matter in hand, concerning itself with the development of the relationship between the Ego and the Self which lies at the heart of the problems that manifest themselves psychologically.
The text is illustrated not only with quotations from Jung but other scholars such as St Augustine,Elias Ashmole as well as relevant biblical passages and makes prolific use of illustration.
I'd recommend this as an introduction to Jung as it seemed to me to be a more comprehensive overview of individuation with a historical view of the development of the proces
In my opinion its theory's fit so well with the dysfunction of some people that I know and I love that it pinpoints exactly what part of the growth process went awry and may have become stuck.It also helped me on a personal level be more accepting of my attempts of separation from ego.
Feel free to skip the rest of the book - unless the chapter titles appeal to you.---------------------------------Update April/16/2016 - I just re-read the first 100 pages and I love the incredible insight and wisdom!
I do plan on reading the first 100 pages for a third time and writing something up on it.
Incredible, Way. Jung's collective unconscious is like sci-fi. Understand myth, and much of humanities images and stories. Think adventure. Read, Inquire, Explore, Open, and Grow. Unavoidable and powerful.
Such a great book, though not an easy read at all!
Meanings of numbers (1,2,3,4,5,7,12 - 3 as masculine, 4 as feminine) and the sun (masculine, heat) and moon (feminine, cool).Some of the Christian analysis made sense - Christ as the ultimate individuated ego for example (as he is both God and man).
For example, Edinger (and Jung?) argues that when the Bible says giving to the poor is giving to God, this means we have to consciously accept all aspects of our personality, including those we don't like to achieve individuation.
I also found the word "fourness" in the book - which is a fun word!Themes: ego, consciousness, psychology, counseling, dream interpretation, Christianity, alchemy, philosophy, symbols
This is definitely a classic in Jungian Studies, but in re-reading it, I am struck by what a completely patriarchal and masculine view Edward Edinger takes. This is of course, due in large part to the time it was written, but it's also due to the fact that when he discusses "religion" he almost completely means Christianity with a dash of Greek Mythology. It's a good primer (if a bit dense), but definitely explore other more feminist authors to get a wider perspective.
this is a good book, actually, but it really apt for Christian readers
Edward has used the mythical analysis and the Jungian theories to explain all their connections and how the mythology seeps deep into us on a deepest level whether we believe or not , they affect us that's what I came to know .On the other hand I will also mention that it's not the everyone's cup of tea as it can go much in detail to the core which sometimes felt confusing for a normal reader seeking knowledge or reading psychology out of interest ...many a times I thought of putting the book down but in the end it was worth the effort.
I find it fascinating and interesting how things in our culture and our gods make up our mind and how in the ancient time all these things already are mentioned in the types of tales and myths we symbolises now and searching for their meanings.
Although, I dunno if I could follow it if I hadn't already had coursework that involved Jung's idears.
But, it was really cool to see, in a book, idears that I'd already been thinkin' 'bout in my own head, that had bubbled up from my unconscious and presented themselves to my li'l ole NANOWRIMO novels.
It's been a while since I've read the thing, though, so I'd have to lookit it again to remember, in more detail, what it was about.
No, I'd suggest reading, I forgot what it was called.
Like, a Primer in Jungian psychology or something along those lines, first, cuz that'd make this book easier to follow, man.
The etymolgy of the word 're-ligion' is 're' meaning 'again' and 'ligament' meaning 'attachment' (just as ligament adheres to bone.Jungian scholar Marion Woodman says that life is a series of births, and in the same light, Edinger shares that we earn our own individuation and our own autonomy.
Just as we were first attached to our mother's womb, now, by tolerating the discomfort associated with becoming our truest selves, we re-attach to the spiritual flesh of our own best selves.
I felt very encouraged while reading this book.Eleanor Cowan, author of : A History of a Pedophile's Wife: Memoir of a Canadian Teacher and Writer
Edinger draws from both Greek and Christian mythology, religion, and art to explain the individuation process and development of the Ego. He claims that through this journey to psychological wholeness one can bring meaning back to one's life.I found his references to Christianity fascinating.
Never had I thought of Christ as the paradigm of an individuated ego.
I also enjoyed his explanation of the development of consciousness and how it follows a cycle.
It mapped perfectly with my own experiences.This is one of those books that I will probably read over and over and get something new out of it each time.
This is my third reading of this amazing book.
The revelations that depth psychology via Carl Jung have to offer the individual are startling beginning with ego - Self awareness and the process of individuation.
The analysis of Christ as both ego and Self (God) are awesome and life changing.
A basic understanding of Freud and Jung along with early Christian theology is necessary for a thorough comprehension of this book, and the last 100 pages are slightly obscure.
I look forward to a fourth reading when I sense that daily life has caused me to drift away (which is inevitable) from these mystical truths.
Fascinating book on Jung's idea of individuation. Edinger argues that the ego is our subjective identity while the Self is our true identity and is transpersonal in character. The unconscious Self manifests itself through religion and myth. Images such as mandalas or themes such as wholeness, the union of opposites, the elixir of life, etc. all refer to the Self. Individuation, psychological development, or perhaps better described as self realization comes from the changing relationship between the ego and the Self. This book explores this relationship.
This is a fascinating take on the concept of Jesus' life (and the stories of the bible) as a metaphor for the process of individuation. as well as the collective (un)consciousness of mankind. Great supplemental reading for anyone who is studying depth psychology. Edinger takes the works of Carl Jung and applies the theories to religion in order to bring a deeper understanding of self and to the dark and the light aspects of humanity.
So far an amazing book. Great discussion about "The fall of man", actually the coming to consciousness from a state of unconsciousness. The activation, or splitting of the ego from the Self. This process causes an unhealing wound from which we experience all throughout our conscious lives. Awesome read, one of my favorites.
If you want to understand the ego and its relationship to the greater, ancient wisdom of the psyche, this is the book to read. Edinger is my go-to author for understanding depth psychology, based on the discoveries of Carl Jung.
A wonderful application of Jungian ideas to Christian thought and concept. A turning point in my own thinking about these two subjects, and ultimately in my understanding of the human narrative. Dense at times but worth reading.
Fine introduction on Carl Gustav Jung's psychology and timeless mysteries of Self.
One of my favorite books on Jungian thought weaved with inner spiritual paths. Edinger is brilliant at reaching your psyche as if the book were explaining itself to you.
one of the best elucidations of jungian psychology that i've found. really interesting & beautiful.
Edinger's depth and clarity are amazing. I'm grateful for this work that elucidates Individuation in a spiritual way.
This is a detailed book on Jungian psychology, focusing on the relationship between the ego and Self.
Highly recommend
Nothing like it. :)
Amazing This book inspired me & helped me complete a project that I’ve been working on for 2 years, it’s so life changing you can feel the shift as you read each chapter!
Theories can't be supporting evidence, which made the book feel more like a private meditation rather than an academic text.Eventually Edinger wandered too far for me.
After reading this chapter introduction, I have up on the book, about 60% through.His discussions on Christianity are very good at first, but then he takes Christian stories and tries to fit them into psychological terms rather than their more commonly understood interpretations.
Some of his explanations make little sense, some even seem to contradict one another.His constant blending of myth with psychology is confusing.
Edinger didn't bother trying to make this accessible to a general audience.
