https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6562.Creature
I remember being scared when I read this in middle school, less so when I re-read it in high school. Now, I FEEL like I just read a YA book, not a book meant for adult readers- WAS this an adult book? Its writing style surely was meant for younger readers. The story is a good yarn and you DO keep compulsively turning the pages, but the book feels...juvenile. Saul can do better than this, I think.
And Sphere and the rest never registered as something for the older crowd.) I remember the day I got it from the Scholastic book sale (remember when the big box of books would come once a month and it was like Christmas?) newsletter in middle school.
Got me in trouble in high school!
I performed a monologue from the book for the NC Christian Drama Competition and my score sheet, despite a high ranking on delivery and effectiveness, remained a low 3 out of 4 (lowest) for content which had, and I quote: "ABSOLUTELY No Taste!!!!!" I have never been so proud of a performance.
Poate că John Saul – descoperit cu mulţi, mulţi ani în urmă, în paralel cu Serge Brussolo – nu este cel mai important autor de gen, nici măcar un scriitor de calibru, poate că a repetat de prea multe ori o reţetă epică de succes cu prea puţine variaţiuni, dar esenţial este că de fiecare dată un roman de John Saul „merge”.
Alţii un John Saul apărut cu mult înainte ca autorul să se bucure de celebritatea de acum, un roman de început, uitând că Saul s-a bucurat de succes (comercial, cel puţin) surprinzător de repede.
This book was great.I really got attached to Mark, the main character, who, in my opinion, is a perfect example of a shy, good male character.
Most authors don't understand the thin (but still existing) line between a shy, good male character and a girl.
On the other hand I hated almost every other male character than Mark.
It was average writing, with an interesting story and well made characters.
Is it just me or does John Saul, accomplished writer and selling author, write like freshman level creative writing?
I mean I don't expect great literature out of book called "Creature" with a picture of a football helmet on front containing dimly lit eyes, but still.
I was rolling my eyes at many points of this book.
Anyway, I read this over the course of a few nights and it's an ok story.
It keeps you sort of interested in following its course to the end, but once I got there, I looked back over my metaphorical shoulder and said "Really!
Due to a childhood sickness, Mark is now a short, skinny kid who avoids sports in favor of more scholarly pursuits but when faced with continual bullying from school, friends, and even his own dad, it becomes harder and harder to resist what the town, and the high school sports clinic has to offer.I’ve tried two John Saul novels before and thought them “OK” but not particularly brag-worthy.
The character of Mark, especially, was well done and I think I will remember him for a long time to come.
I want to start off this review by saying that I hadn't planned to read this book at all, but it so happened that I needed a light book to bring to highschool to read when I felt bored and I was kind of feeling the horror genre, so, naturally, I asked Mum – the biggest fan of horror content that I know.
So, as I was saying, the story is both chilling and thrilling because it uses the premise of experimenting on humans and what they become after this lab-rat game.
Corre la leyenda que esta novela duró en el mercado 2 meses y fue eliminada por las criticas tan duras que recibió al utilizar los niños como bestias (literalmente) Hoy en día no la veo para nada dura, aunque este ya más que curtido en mil batallas.
Y en Saul no es nada sorprendente utilizar al niño como arma de terror, y hace bien, pues junto a los ancianos es el elemento más terrorífico que puedes encontrar.
Es más un tema de perturbación por algo que puede ser real y demasiado americano.
Así puede emplear los esteroides con sus hijos para volverlos auténticos deportistas y militares.
I remember reading this somewhere during 8th grade, everybody was reading John Saul, Dean Koontz and Stephen King, I called it The Dark Trinity. Although Koontz tends to have happier endings, Saul was darker in his endings and I always wonder why do the children have to suffer? But I remember this book from way back and it's kinda short and it was a creepy read and loved it at the time of my creep fest LOL. Dark and enjoyable for those who love to read in the shadows.
This was the first John Saul novel I ever read, and it still holds up 25 years later. If you want to know what happens when you try to improve on Mother Nature, Saul reminds us of the awesome (or awful) consequences.
This is the book that got me into books, it is the reason I read today.
It's not a child or teen book I just think they are less concerned with the less than original parts of this book.
The 'classics' have changed the way I like a book to be written I think.
There are new books that capture that style for me, this isn't one of them and so at this point in my life I would give Creature a 3.5 - 4.0 But will still recommend it to anyone who was looking for a great book that, even now, brings some rarely seen twists.
A powerful high tech company has started a side project in Silverdale, which is a postcard pretty town; only it is just too perfect.
Marty Ames, the scientist conducting the experiment doesn't know the true extent of what the growth hormone he gives to the boys does, and the experiment has its flaws.
Three boys in Silverdale turn ino the monsters and only one of them survives in the mountains outside of town.
At the end, Marty Ames dies and so does.
But Saul says nothing of what finally becomes of Silverdale after the head of the experiment project, and the coach is dead.
The ending is good, and funny/stupid, and Saul's interpretation of the semi-colon's function is frequently creative.
But this is a bad book.
The best thing I can say about this book is, I got it very cheaply at HPB but it had never been read and I kept sticking my face in it and smelling the pages.
The book is bad, yes, but also somehow comforting.
If you took out a hundred pages of pointless exposition and shaved down some of the more egregiously redundant prose, it would be like a cool pulp story with a good, stupid, funny ending.
But that's the difference between borderline-entertaining airport novels and good pulp fiction.
I guess the best way to describe it would be to say it resembles a "steroids gone out of control" story, a very believable potential scenario in this day and age of athletes and the radical performance-enhancing measures that some of them take.
Yes, the "moral" of the story indirectly delivers itself throughout and up until the end; sometimes it's best not to mess with nature and what God gave you.
I read this book as a child and spent years searching for it again.
Though not exactly as I remembered it, it is indeed the book I remember from my youth.
The boys are bigger and stronger than most kids, and the sports center they use for training is state of the art.
But is the training and vitamin regimen the doctor has them on really harmless?I definitely had to keep in mind the time frame when this was written, as much of what happened would never fly the way it did these days.
It was still an enjoyable read.
This started off well & I had high hopes, but then it just went downhill. It was repetitive, boring & predictable. A large majority of the male characters are jerks who treat their wives like dirt - they don't listen to anything they say, ignore their feelings & do things behind their backs because they know better. Hello misogyny!There were no likeable characters, except for Chivas the dog.I only gave this an extra star because it started to pick up towards the end for a few chapters.
Creature, by John Saul, was a fun horror story about a town that appears to be too perfect and reveals the malignant machinations going on behind the scenes. I particularly enjoyed that John Saul would write a person's first and last name several times in the book, which allowed me to follow the characters in the book effortlessly. The ending held a surprising death or two, but it also left me a little sad.
I actually give this book a 4.5 stars. It was pretty good. The beginning was slow and it was hard to catch on for me because I saw people like that in school, but I didn't totally understand. Otherwise, the experiments being done to the boys at this clinic was horrific and very sad. No child should be subjected to that.
book choice for Saul group.Isolated town. Newcomer family. Football team that never loses. Sports center funded by a wealthy company. Experiments on kids.Nothing new but Saul tells the story so well I'm giving him 4 stars. Won't he be thrilled? I also teared up at the end! And who the hell cries over a horror story? Niiiiiice. (bumps fist with Chia)
This is a very good book, I actually finished this awhile ago but didn't have a chance to come on and write my review. It's amazing all the way through, the ending is a little different then what I was thinking it was going to end but it was good. a must read.
Excellent,gripping read.Hard to put down.There was more PG-13 language and gore than other books I have read by this author,but I could not stop reading!I found the story fascinating,especially with the 'fanaticism' and corruption around sports,we see today!Highly recommended.
This is the only Saul book I've read that I didn't like. It was far too slow to get going and far, far too predictable.
Creature was a cut above most mass-market horrors, well-written, easy to follow, and featuring an original and creative terror to give the book an antagonist.
A young family is lured to a "perfect" town but little do they know that not is all as it seems. I found this an easy and fun way to spend an afternoon reading.
This book did not play!
Amazing :)
Due to an unexpected transfer, the Tanner family moves to the small town of Silverdale, Colorado.
Because of physical limitations from a childhood illness, their teenage son, Mark, is a small, delicate boy who is more interested in photography than sports, which is a disappointment to his college football star father.
However, the author also works his usual magic in portraying the characters in such a way that the reader comes to really care for them.
The unemotional and unfeeling doctor that is in charge of the human testing is perhaps a little archetypal, but Saul has a way of writing even these characters that makes them seem all too real.
My first thought was that this book was written for a juvenile audience, until the animals heads started getting ripped off.
I liked the mutation and experimental portion of the book.
I didn't like how the story gets very graphic and violent towards animals.
It was about a high school football team and the book felt like it was to simple written and for a young adult group which I didn't find entertaining then half ways through at the drop of a hat it goes into teens killing and ripping up animals by the throats, which I just didn't get.
This is a strange book.
It's certainly not a good book, but it defintiely isn't *bad*, either.
The characters all seem sketched out, no real depth to them, and the writing is similar to a YA horror novel by a not-very-good author.
It feels like you're reading a story by Stephen King, written when he was fifteen or sixteen.
Getting to that point in the story, however, is a bit of a slog.
It's a good concept, and could have been a great story in the right hands.
The book was very interesting.
More interesting than the cover or summary provides.
This is a good example of don't judge a book by its cover, and for the first 150 pages, the book has you believing the story is going in a very particular direction.
This story had many interesting plot twists, conflict, distraction, and detailed setting.
Which is the entire theme of this book, really.
Like why did it happen?
What's going to happen?
Etc. This is the first John Saul book I have ever read, but it inspired to take a read through some of other work.
It's twisted.
