https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25150798-the-tea-girl-of-hummingbird-lane
ARE GOING TO BE HAPPY with "The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane".ANOTHER HISTORY LESSON WITH INTIMACY of CHARACTERS....and TONS of HEART!!Lisa's new novel has all the elements we loved from several of her books...."The Snow Flower and The Secret Fan", "Shanghai Girls", and "Dream of Joys"....Compelling storytelling, historically-set in a remote region, and culture, well researched, beautifully woven plot, an expanded appreciation for the Chinese history, Heritage, family traditions, spirits and superstitions, sacrifices, rituals, ancestor worship, cleansing ceremonies, Government policies, family policies, embroidering by women, and chores, men smoking pipes and their hunting stories, and specifically in "The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane", we learn more about "Pu'er' Tea.....
And just what was the thing with her ending up married to some rich guy and then life is perfect, the ending was a little too much for me with everyone being great but it's fiction I guess.
I did enjoy the characters and the immersive writing that let me experience the culture and values vividly.
The story circled back around in the end which was great and unexpected because I didn't think they'd end up meeting.
I mean until like the last chapter by then you know it's obvious.I would read it if you enjoy fiction relevant to the cultural and societal changes in the present.
4.5 stars This story gives us a fascinating look at this ethnic minority known as the Akha in a rural village in a tea growing region in China.
It has language that flows and characters that you grow attached to even though you might not understand their culture and a captivating story of mothers and daughters, families, fate and love.
Li-yan's desire to be more than what her culture required of women, and her desire to do what she has to do to find what she has lost is at the center of the story .
The very thought of becoming an outcast because of disrespecting those customs is unspeakable.Lisa See centers her story around Li-yan, an extremely bright young girl who has the rare promise of an educated future within the village.
It is through this very circumstance that Lisa See begins to unwind the ribbon of Li-yan's life and the affect it has on those around her.
Li-yan wraps an ancient tea cake among her baby's clothes on that fateful day.
It is that very tea that provided work, tradition, respect, and an indescribable sense of relevance in the scheme of life.
She is forced to give up her daughter but fortunate enough to be able to leave her at the city's orphanage.
The life path she follows leads her to becoming a tea Master in her own right and the search for her daughter begins many years later.The role tea plays is at the heart of this story and how the lives of both mother and daughter are entwined with it; it's essence; it's power; it's connectivity.Beautifully written this gets 5⭐️I won this as a Goodreads giveaways for an honest review.
Thank you Goodreads - This one is a keeper!
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!I’d only read one book by Lisa See before  Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. I enjoyed it very much, so I was more than pleased to have the opportunity to read her latest - The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane!Li-Yan and her family are Akha, an indigenous hill tribe who live in the higher elevations; they are classified by the Chinese government as part of the Hani.
There’s a segment of this story that is about tea, the growing of tea in the hills where Li-Yan lives, the traditions of serving tea, the different types of tea, the fluctuations of the value on tea, and how the economy of it affects all, but perhaps most importantly affects the Akha in this story.
The people are known as the Akha people, one of 55 minority groups in a country whose majority group is called Han.With her renowned attention to detail and copious research, Lisa See has created a story that is as broad and sweeping as China itself yet her characters are formed like the most delicately detailed paintings and the story itself flows like skillfully inscribed calligraphy.The story encompasses the growing pains of a culture that is propelled from history and tradition into modern times and modern economics.
Li-Yan is a young girl in the village, her mother has prominence of a midwife and hopes that some day Li-Yan will take her place.
I enjoyed the first part of this book immensely, my heart fully invested in this young woman, her journey, her hopes and her sorrows.
The second part of the book was a little different, the character still prominent but I felt overshadowed by all the discussions of tea.
I wish a better balance would have been maintained in the second half, but I did enjoy this story and learning about a different culture.
It was so beautifully written and I got to experience a Lisa See book.
This is a historical fiction book of the culture of China.
After mother and daughter have gone their separate ways, Li-yan slowly emerges from the security of her village to encounter modern life while Haley grows up a privileged and well-loved California girl.
Also to those that love to learn about cultures of another Country, China.I want to thank Netgalley, Lisa See and the publisher for a copy of this book.

I always love learning new things while reading and this book definitely educates the reader on the history, production and manufacturing, marketing and selling of tea as well as the drinking, enjoyment and health benefits.
It is a concept I hadn’t ever considered before and it will stay with me long after finishing this book.I found it fascinating to learn about the Chinese Akha cultural traditions, beliefs and rituals.
For most Akha people, their heritage and beliefs are stronger than anything else in life – they follow customs and traditions without questioning anything.
And this book is a perfect example of all of this.The story is a life story of Li-yan, a young Ahka girl.
Li-yans daughter is adopted by a wealthy family from the US and after many, many years, you learn how their lives intersect.
Side note, I do know someone who adopted multiple children from China and I heard so much about the process from him.
When the story is told from Li-yans perspective, the narrator is wonderful!
There is a lot going on, with the details of the Akha people, the details on the tea from this area, and the focus on children in China and the adoption process.
This book follows the life of Li-yan who is a member of the Akha hill tribe in China.
Custom requires that they be killed by their father and the parents banished from the community.Li-yan falls in love with a boy in the village named San-pa.
After the birth, the baby is placed in an orphanage and adopted in America.The book follows Li-yan’s life over the next twenty years as she ventures outside her tribe into the modern day world.
Her daughter named Haley lives in California and is also searching for clues about her natural parents.
The rare Pu'er tea and the unique customs of the Chinese hill tribe, the Akha people are central to this fascinating story, featuring the young Lin Yan who is born just after the Cultural Revolution.
Lin Yan picks tea with her family, but she also will inherit a secret ancient tea tree from her mother's lineage, hidden from all men.
Both Haley and Lin Yan and their families' stories are followed, with the tea cake continually tempting discovery of Haley's Akha roots.
This book gives an in-depth history of Pu'er tea and the Akha people.
I actually craved tea, while reading, and I did my own research on where I could purchase a quality Pu'er tea.I loved the fictional part of this book, with characters that were interesting and endearing, especially, A-ma, Li-yan's mother, but I can only give it three stars, because I wanted much more fiction and a little less history.
From reading other reviews for The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane I was intrigued by the tea in this story as tea is my choice of beverage while reading.
The story is mostly told by only daughter Li-Yan called girl by her family who takes us from tea growing Chinese minority Akha who are strong on rules, customs and traditions, to a Chinese drug infested village and to glamorous Los Angeles.From the vivid descriptions of the tea, background and processing it's like the tea becomes a character in the story.
This book was filled with Ahka culture: the spirituality, the superstitions, the food, the work, the daily life, and the tea.
The Ahka are an ethnic minority group living in a mountainous region of China famous for its ancient tea trees.
Forced to give her daughter up for adoption, Li-yan's future takes a sharp turn.
This book is heavily focused on tea- its production, the history of it, its importance to the region, to the culture.
But another theme in this book is the adoption of female children from China during the "one child per family" policy.
"In the West, you think that the individual is supreme, but the Akha see themselves as one link in the long chain of life, adjacent to all the other links of people and cultures, all carrying a collective wave toward the beach to throw a newborn up to safety." When Li-yan has a baby girl out of wedlock, she and her mother, the local midwife and healer, keep it secret.
For in the box with the infant, she had included an ancient cake of Pu'er tea that had been produced by her family and that could possibly help the girl trace her Chinese roots, if she was so inclined.
3.5 StarsBuddy read with Tessa!I just loved the first half of this book.
I learned about the Akha tribe and China.
I especially enjoyed the character of Li-Yan and how she was able to escape the backwards beliefs of her family.
She becomes pregnant and her life takes a different path.
There are some suspenseful moments and intrigue, but I struggled with the second half of the book.
It just seemed to take away from the emotional aspect of the story for me.I still think it was a good book and would recommend.
Now, add a strong mother-daughter bond, with a mother tree into the mix, and you have the whole picture.There are three main themes in the book:1) The introduction of the Akha People from the Yunnan Province in the southwest of China, bordering Laos and Burma.
The human interest side of the book:Well drawn characters, lyrical prose, atmospheric setting, intense drama and a rich index of cultural practices: some of them hilarious, others gut-wrenching cruel.The mother tree, protected for hundreds of years by the women in the family, is the life-giving force to the minority communities in the mountains.
The tree is also the heart of the book, both anchoring the story of the strong women to the history of the tea industry.
Honestly.) But this book wasn't like that, and although there was some shock involved, there was also redemption, joy, happiness and a very meaningful ending.The story is actually about an ethnic minority in China - the Akha peopleThe story is mostly made up of two parts: the tragic hardship and the glowing growth and redemption, from which the characters look back on the past.
I mean so much more than that.The story centers around losing your child, losing your mother, but it's also deep on not belonging - be it because you're far away from your home, physically different, culturally different, a minority or just outcrowded by race.
Lin-yan is from a remote village in the Yunan province of China and also part of the Akha people.
Her family are tea leaf harvesters, its how they earn their living, a very modest one.
Lin-yan, however, is one of the few in her village that can aspire to higher education, which is an unusual route for a girl.
When a foreigner visits her village inquiring about their tea, it sets off a series of events that will have a marked effect on Lin-yan's life.Lisa See is not a new author for me.
The leaves are harvested then fermented, made into tea cakes and stored for years.
Li-Yan was forced to leave her firstborn daughter with an orphanage, from which the baby was later adopted by white Americans.
Li-Yan was intent on making it as an educated tea seller, while always wondering about the baby she gave up.
Although most pages are dedicated to Li-Yan's story, we also get to know the little girl as she matures into a young Chinese - American scholar, curious about her Chinese heritage and especially the tea cake that accompanied her into the orphanage as a baby.I found many similarities between this book and Secret Daughter, which took place in India and America.
I nearly gave up before I was 10% of the way done with the book (I went back to look at reviews from trusted friends to determine whether or not to keep going).
Thankfully I made it over the hump and continued, because if I gave up it would have been my loss.Lisa See once again beautifully describes the life of Li-yan, a young girl who is part of an enthnic minority in China known as the Akha.
4 starsThank you to NetGalley and Scriber for a galley of this book in exchange for an honest review.
5 Stars for Outstanding Writing and Character Development 3 Stars for Storyline Lisa See became a favorite author of mine when I read Snow Flower and the Secret Fan many years ago.
See writes stories that pull the reader into the Chinese culture, and has you come away feeling like you have learned something about their beliefs and customs.
She develops her characters in such a way that you feel a connection to them, even though many of them don't even exist in your era.
Even though I flew through this book (as I had to know about Li-yan), I felt it had WAY too much information about tea.
4.5 starsSpanning almost three decades from 1988 to 2016 The Tea Girl of Hummingbird Lane by Lisa See was a truly lovely novel and one I'm tremendously pleased to have finally read.
As I write this review and think back over what I've read I'm beginning to realise I liked it even more than I first thought.
They are desperately poor but incredibly dedicated to their cultural traditions, many of which I was in shock reading about yet Lisa See ensured I wasn't judgemental.
The tea growing, making, tasting, medicinal uses and trading was an interesting backdrop to a beautiful story of family.
Rich in tradition and culture, this is an engaging story about mothers and daughters navigating through a changing world and the bridging of East and West.
I enjoyed this book almost as much as my favorite See book, Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. See’s research of the Akha tribal people is impressive.
It brought back memories of my own visit to a Chinese tea growing farm a few years ago, viewing the tea fields and participating in a tea ceremony.I recommend this book to not only those who are Lisa See fans but for others who want to discover this author who knows how to write and capture a reader’s attention.
A very interesting book but I did not enjoy it as much as I did Snow Flower and the Secret Fan. On the one hand there was heaps of enjoyable information about the Chinese culture and the enormous changes the Chinese people have undergone in a very short time.
The central tales of Li-yan and Haley are excellently told and very interesting to read.
On the other hand the book seemed overly long and sometimes became bogged down in detail about tea.
Some of this was of course essential to the story but for me much was superfluous.Still a good tale well told and worth 4 stars.
Li-Yan grows up in a remote mountain village where picking tea, homeopathic remedies and superstition is the only way of life.
Li-Yan is fortunate and able to attend school where she goes on to succeed in her own business, marries well and lives in America but eventually comes back to her roots in China.
It's all about the tea.
Throughout the book, the history of tea (which does get a little tedious) and the Akha people is the focus, but the story and tradegy of Li-Yan is neatly woven in.
Good book, must read.4 ☆
This book made me wish I liked tea.
It is rich in Chinese history as well as the tea making process, history of tea, tea facts, etc.
Some of the history involving the Ahka tribe customs is shocking.
The story spans nearly 30 years following Li-yan through her fascinating life.
This was my first Lisa See book and now I see why she is a favorite of many.
She has an ability to draw us into her story and characters all while educating us at the same time.
Onto my next Lisa See book!
