https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/423051.The_Penguin_Dictionary_of_Classical_Mythology
This book is the definitive treatment of Greek and Roman mythology.
This is especially useful information to have today since many writers now insist on transliterating Greek names rather than relying upon their Latinized spellings.
Hence, citation to the Greek name dispenses altogether with issues of how one chooses to spell the name in English.For the fullness of its many entries, the book basically trumps all of the many handbooks that are available today, such as Zimmerman's The Dictionary of Classical Mythology, Cassell's Dictionary of Classical Mythology, Tripp's Classical Mythology, The Meridian Handbook of Classical Mythology, Hansen's Handbook of Classical Mythology, and others.
Uno strumento completo e indispensabile per orientarsi nella mitologia classica. Ma anche la chiave per rientrare in quel mondo delle Idee, che studiammo al liceo. E che la realtà ci nasconde ogni giorno.
Although most of the myths are Greek and Roman, I enjoyed it, it was practical to have a copy if you love ancient myths like I do. Thanks to my aunt for giving me a copy of it.
Una de las mejores obras de referencia sobre mitología griega y romana. Seguramente de las mejores que se pueden encontrar en español. De una forma exhaustiva y sistemática toca todo tipo de personajes mitológicos clásicos, desde los grandes dioses hasta oscuras figuras apenas mencionadas en algunos libros. Es de apreciar para los interesados en Filología e Historia que incluya en cada personaje varias de las referencias que se hacen sobre ellos en obras clásicas. Muy útil para estudiantes y expertos en el tema.
Awesome dictionary, but it lacked some things that I’ve been wondering myself and had to go to the web to find it.
It's informative, so that's good.
There might be entries that referred to a person with an alternative name, but if you looked up that alternative name, in some cases there was nothing to refer you back to the first version of the name.
For example, if there were a person Bob, also known as John, as named by Mythographer X: in some cases, you could look up both Bob and John and get *some* sort of information (either the full story, or a cross reference to the other name); in other cases, though, you could look up Bob and see the story there, but there'd be nothing under John to tell you to go look up Bob.
Personalmente trovo l'edizione non particolarmente piacevole da leggere, una brossura fragile dalle pagine in carta troppo lucida. Però è quasi inevitabile, considerando la mole di informazioni che contiene. Per ogni personaggio, anche sentito nominare solo una volta o proprio mai nelle lezioni di letteratura greca, corrisponde una descrizione più o meno vasta.
A good entry level reference for those interested in Classics. Handy to keep nearby when reading a text.
A great reference book.
The Penguin Dictionary of Classical Mythology (Dictionary, Penguin) by Pierre Grimal (1992)
Thank you for adding this to my dictionary collection, m'baby.
Great book, one to dip into, Full of all the Greek Myths,
Fiel compañero en mis días de Mitos y Leyendas de Salo.
