https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73869.The_Spiral_Dance
The worst thing about this book is Starhawk's version of 'herstory' which she does admit, in her 20th anniversary notes in the index, that it is a modern myth and should be taken as such.
I still think this leads to a lot of misconceptions among the fluffier pagans today and only serves to continue to propagate the "oldest religion" myth and all that "burning times" rubbish.Other than that this book is poetic, and an interesting and wonderful read.
I wish this was one of the first books I picked up when I first first interested in paganism and would recommend it to anyone first striking out on the 'path'.
I also know the 'history' presented here is a little romanticized, but that being said.This is the religion I wish to follow (almost :) Some of the rituals suggested are a bit theatrical for me, and I do not think I would ever want to be naked in front of coven members, and I disagree when she says magick is best worked with a group.
The mythology to follow, the way to view the self and emotions, how your every day life is magickal and how YOU are the divine.I especially love, in the last chapter, her view of science and religion.
It is not a must-follow - most definitely not - however, I think it offers great insight that anyone would benefit from reading.
Huh.This was intriguing, and covered a lot of the basic underpinnings of generic modern pagan thought, such as the mortal god/immortal goddess stuff, the maiden/mother/crone stuff, and other stuff.
I enjoyed all this stuff pretty well.
Mythology is fun, even if it's something new pretending to be something old.
But the last half of the book is actually a spell book, with candles and little knives and visualizing the four winds and who knows what else.
This part I just couldn't read.
After reading this book several years ago, I realized that, despite my best efforts, I was never going to be a pagan.
The use of mythos used as a tool to get the witch into a proper frame of mind.According to Starhawk and Murray, life in Europe and all over the world was matriarchal.
Marian is the sea goddess in Robert grave's work " White Goddess" There are a few other connections as well.Leaving aside the myths and pseudo history this book has some great practical information for the beginning witch or magician.
In the spell section and through out the book she gives techniques on raising energy and directing towards a magical goal.
Accessing the deep mind via the unconscious mind is what magic is about.The view of witchcraft is one of a transformational model.
And in the chapter text, I can totally get down with what she's talking about: a sex-positive, earth-based, power-from-within rather than power-over spirituality, recognizing our oneness with nature and each other, and valuing that oneness as sacred.
How what's important is finding wholeness and connection, and therefore anything that increases your wholeness or connection to the divine is a valuable and worthy ritual.It's a good book, but to me more of an inspirational example of what works for her and the ladies she practices with, than a guidebook explaining what neo-paganism/earth based religion is and should be.
Starhawk writes from a strictly Dianic view - basically, emphasis in placed on the Divine Feminine.
There are many men involved in Wicca, but for the most part, they are Gardnerians (Ceremonial Magicians.)The reason for this, as Starhawk explains, is that women are far more connected to the earth than their opposite gender.
We give birth and, in the old days, washed the bodies of our loved ones, and prepared them for burial.The Spiral Dance itself is as old as time.
First, read Scott Cunningham's "Wicca; a Guide For the Solitary Practitioner" -- then, if this appeals to you, follow with "The Spiral Dance."
I think there's good information here but it's biased by an assumption that is not known to be true.
The "ancient religion of the goddess" is just a hypothesis by anthropologists based on artifacts.
There is no proof that such a thing ever existed.
These things are important to keep in mind when studying about modern paganism.That said, even if ancient goddess worship never existed (who knows?), Wicca and other modern day pagan belief systems are no less legitimate for it.
Starhawk does a good job of talking about how 20th century people blend ancient folklore with modern tradition in their worship and spirituality.
I give this five stars not because it's a perfect book, but because it's a deeply thoughtful, immeasurably influential book whose author is nonetheless willing to engage in ongoing dialogue about her ideas, and to continually revise them. She walks the walk of participating in the creation of a living, evolving tradition.
Interesting. A bit misguided on archeological facts, but the ideas developed have a lot of merit. Also interesting to read the notes from the 10th and 20th anniversary editions, and see how her ideas evolved.
An introduction to the religion of wicca. I already get confused by religion (strikes me as watered-down philosophy), add magical symbolism and things just get frustratingly confusing. Moon rituals and the like? There's also an exercise about 'grounding the tree of life'? Maybe it's combining jungian symbolism to form some type of meditation, only with physical rituals involved? Very... VERY confusing.I do not understand what is going on. Nor do I have the drugs necessary to possibly understand what is going on...
The myths, legends, and teachings are recognized as metaphors for “That-Which-Cannot-Be-Told,” the absolute reality our limited minds can never completely know.” So says Starhawk in The Spiral Dance: A Rebirth of the Ancient Religion of the Great Goddess (1989); this statement greatly appeals to my agnostic sensibilities.The book is an excellent introduction to what goddess religion (actually what many consider to be a revival of the most ancient religions), Wicca, paganism whatever you want-to-call-it is all about.
and that might seem a little odd to those who are not ready to embrace the them or are frightened off by words like witchcraft; but the philosophies presented around these exercises make an incredible amount of sense and are most interesting reading.
She very dramatically discusses Witches Covens, where apparently 12 women would get naked "in perfect love and trust", while singing and dancing during a Full Moon.
She also takes credit for a beautiful poem called "the Charge of the Star Goddess" which was written by a Valerie Valiente, with about 3 words changed by Starhawk.
It comes with any Motherpeace deck, with Starhawk on it as Author, which is untrue.
Starhawk è il nome d'arte di Miriam Simos, scrittrice e attivista americana, poco più che ventenne all'epoca della prima pubblicazione del libro (1979).Il libro parla della sua esperienza nel "Reclaiming", un'organizzazione basata sulla religione neopagana che ha molto in comune con la wicca, ispirata al paganesimo celtico, ma che viene presentata come movimento a sé, basato su una non meglio definita "tradizione fatata".Per chi è interessato all'argomento, sicuramente è un libro da cui partire e da cui prendere spunto per letture successive (interessantissima la bibliografia) ma non sufficiente.Ho trovato alcune parti molto interessanti (per esempio gli esercizi di rilassamento, meditazione, concentrazione, le tavole di corrispondenza, la ruota dell'anno) altre piuttosto confuse e sconclusionate.
It's good to finally delve into a spirituality that has always deeply interested and mystified me, and where better to start than with "the original book that brought the Goddess tradition to the public eye".
In my exploration, details of rituals and meditation seem to differ from every source, which made me wonder how anyone practicing can be confident of their learning.
**Reading a pdf version probably did not do the book justice~ chapters and exercises were hastily jumbled together, and at times a section of script would repeat itself, leaving me to wonder if the mistake was leaving another section out completely.
Over the last few years, I've become very interested in Goddess-centered religion.
Nevertheless, it did get me interested in other people looking at the feminine side of the divine, and this book kept coming up in the course of my investigations.
One of the most meaningful spiritual experiences I've had in the last few years was at one of the seasonal rituals hosted by Reclaiming, the group founded by Starhawk, the author of this book.
Despite that, I approached reading it with some trepidation.
Reading it, though, totally turned my perception around.
You can read the rest of my review here:http://chris-west.blogspot.com/2012/0...
I first read this book in college, and decided to pull it out for old times' sake.
(A population composed entirely of witches strikes me as similar to a population composed entirely of rabbis.
Wouldn't the term "rabbi" lose all meaning?) But she tempers her naiveté in her annotations from the ten-year and twenty-year anniversary editions.Portions of The Spiral Dance are very beautiful, and I love Starhawk's theory of the Younger Self and Deep Self.
As a Jew who uses the word Sh'khina instead of Adonai, I'm glad to have this book as a spiritual resource.
I read the 10th annaversary edition and it changed my life forever.
Reading the 20th anniversary edition remindede me of all the things that I both love & loath about this book.As an introduction to Wicca with various west coast flavors, it really is hard to get better.
Personally I believe that is the most important part of this book, the how things change & stay the same retrospective.On the cons...
I understand that looked at in it's historical contects this ellement was very important.
The book is an excellent introduction to what goddess religion (actually what many consider to be a revival of the most ancient religions), Wicca, paganism whatever you want-to-call-it is all about.
I believe that if you are interested in the ideas behind this (and just some general historic perspective) you can skip over the ritual stuff and read the rest."This book is an excellent resource; many neo-pagans if you want to call them that consider this a life-shaping or theology-shaping work.
It seems that part of my journey is not only reading this book, but admitting I am a person who read this book.
This is doubtless character-building, since I was initially embarrassed to borrow it, apparently on the theory that its owner would think my desire to read it more laugable than its presence on her own bookshelf.
I may hold onto a copy to reference for ideas.
(Fair warning: some passages hating on porn, sex work, and kink, and quoting Mary Daly, and one sort of transphobic footnote.
The 10- and 20-years-on notes make up for a lot of original 1979 edition weaknesses, but not these.)

Excellent first book for goddess/earth based religions. Wish I'd had it back when I was 16, but Cunningham's books still have their place. Consider me a Starhawk fan after this one- good stuff, intelligently written, and well amended in the 20th anniversary edition. Cuz the author decided the differences between age 28 viewpoint and age 48 viewpoint needed to be reflected. I dug that as well.
The only thing bogging down the rating is that it was very difficult to get past all the wordiness. There is very good information in here, and was the first non-fiction pagan book I ever read. Evidently, it didn't turn me off to being pagan, so it must have been good enough. It just took forever to read. I was bored a lot when reading it.
One of my most favorite books of all time. I have read this over and over. So powerful, passionate, poetic. A need to read for all women.
Great beginner's book to help get you off your feet LOL. Easy to read and rituals are easy to follow. I'd definitely recommend this to anyone new to the craft.
My copy says ...Of the GREAT Goddess, 10th Anniversary Edition and a line of the cover reading RITUALS-INVOCATIONS-EXERCISES-MAGIC. Original copyright, 1979 by Miriam Simos
The theme and focus throughout the book is the use of witchcraft and Goddess spirituality to reclaim women's rights and women's power.The subtext to the title "The Spiral Dance" reads :"A rebirth of the ancient religion of the Great Goddess".
These personal experience illustrations form some of the most powerful aspects of the book allowing the reader to see what sort of experiences they may have in their own work while not telling them explicitly that these will be your experiences as well.The first chapter completely discusses witchcraft as a Goddess focused religion.
Outlines some of the history and loose philosophy among the movement's many subgroups, with a strong focus on the matriarchal/feminist possibilities.
Her own Pagan/Wiccan philosophies are woven tightly into a cohesive, poetic worldview that should inspire both women and men who are given to thinking outside the modern patriarchal Judeo/Christian reality tunnel, with all of its self-inflicted limitations.European Paganism was nearly destroyed by the Spanish Inquisition (which the Pagans appropriately call The Burning Times).
Think of it as a structure that has been razed to its foundations.
Starhawk is one of the modern architects of this structure.
The first time I read this books, as a 20-year-old running away from Christianity, I wasn't ready.
I didn't like how "political" Starhawk was; I thought religion should be separate.Now, as a 30-something, it strikes me how tame Starhawk's politics actually are in this volume (which is perhaps an effect of changing times as well)--she is mostly concerned with preserving the environment and women's liberation.
For someone like 20-year-old me, that could be a turn off.
Starhawk points out that Wicca isn't set in stone, it changes and evolves with the times.
My rating applies to the 20th anniversary edition, which I strongly recommend, because I got so much more out of reading the reflective notes from 10 and 20 years later than I would have reading the original text alone.
I especially appreciated treatment of heterosexist dualism in the notes, which has been a sticky point for me in almost all books I've read on this movement.
(She also helpfully acknowledges the mythic forms of history in the movement.) But now, even when I clearly identify myself outside of Starhawk's particular form of practice, I was able to do a lot of meaningful reflection through this text.
Well, that's a fair point but it doesn't really explain why any of the rest of us should care to read about this wild speculation, which she bombards us with throughout the book.I guess the function of this book is to provide us with some of her own, seemingly effective Wiccan rituals, examples of how the ideas can be put into practice.
