https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42329.Kalle_Blomquist
Kalle Blomquist (or Blomkvist) may not be as popular as Pippi or Emil, but the three books starred by him and his two bestfriends, Anders and Eva-Lotta, are some of the most fascinating children books I’ve ever come across.Kalle Blomquist books are geared more towards the young adults, a bit older than the children who may read Pippi and Emil.
Come on, nothing happens in a town as sleepy and peaceful as theirs, except for the playful Wars of the Roses fought nobly by Kalle, Anders and Eva-Lotta against some of their other friends.Turned out that the other people are wrong – but that’s predictable, isn’t it?
One of my favourite books! It is a funny, lovely and sometimes exciting and even thrilling story. You really feel how it is to live in a small town in Sweden and how great ist is to be young and play games you made up.In this idyllic scenery the crimes are even more disturbing and sinister. And it contains a lot of humourous parts, too. When I read this book I always want to be one of those kids having experiencing adventures in a long wonderful summer holiday!
War nicht so meins. Ich finde andere Lindgren Bücher wesentlich besser.
Definitely a look back to the past when kids had to invent throughout their playtime. These unsupervised kids have a blast imagining and acting out a lot of fun stuff while Kalle solves a jewelry theft.
Fun children detective story
My favorite childrens' book of all...
sepertinya ini salah satu buku detektif anak-anak yang pertama kali saya baca--di samping Lima Sekawan, STOP, Serikat Sapta Siaga, juga Amy dan Hawkeye.
Di antara buku-buku detektif tersebut, buku Detektif Kalle Blomkvist ini paling berkesan.
Dulu, saat pameran buku di Jakarta, berdesak-desakan dengan orang-orang yang sama-sama memburu buku diskonan.Oya, satu hal yang saya ingat: dulu, setiap kali saya membaca buku karangan Astrid Lindgren, saya selalu bercita-cita menamai anak saya dengan nama salah satu tokoh cerita tersebut (tapi namanya harus mengandung konsonan rangkap), misalnya Lotta, Kalle, Pippi.Saking senangnya saya dengan nama-nama itu, saya sempat membuat satu nama untuk calon anak saya, yaitu Chox Orange Pippi.
I read the finnish version, where there are all three books together (Yksityisetsivät Kalle Blomqvist, Kalle Mestarietsivä sekä Ryöstetty Rasmus ja mestarietsivät).Stories were meant for children so they were a bit slow for my taste. But I really liked the good feeling in them. Lindgren writes masterly about children. I would recommend these for parents to read to their children. (Or children on their own.)
Another wonderful masterpiece by Astrid Lindgren. I remember my sweaty-palmed excitement with every read and re-read, when white and red roses fought each other, mysterious relatives showed up, the friends went for a nightly tour through the ruins or were kidnapped by some evil do-no-goods.Great adventures which no child with at least a little interest in reading should miss!
A great book, a detective for children. Filled with things children, boys do when they are small. Adventurous, funny, just the kind of detective a child would like.The book has been eaten many times here!
After reading The Girl With the Dragon Tattoo, and the constant referencing, I want to read this book.
For some unfathomable reason, the English translators chose to turn Kalle Blomquist into "Bill Bergson." Whatever. That said, the original story is still pretty cool.
Loved it like almost every book of Astrid Lindgren. Pippi, Kalle, Madita and Co. were a few of my heroes. But the best ever was Karlsson ;)!
Used to be my favourite children's book, I reread it about 25 times when I was a child.
Detektif Kalle sedang beraksi, watch out!!Ini juga salah satu buku kesukaan gua hasil karangan si Astrid, udah ada yang pernah baca?Kalo belon, ayoo buruan cari :p
Hurjan jännittävä myös aikuisesta
Good for child!
One of my favorite childhood books
Kalle Blomquist is my favorite childish book ♥
Üks mitmeid kordi loetud, ülilemmik raamat, mis näitab minu arvates selgelt, kui täpselt Astrid Lindgren laste hinge mõistis ning seda kirja panna oskas.
Lisaks nii mõnusa huumoriga pikitud, võiksin siia palju tsitaate siia kirja panna, kuid alljärgnev on mu arvates nii hea näide elutervest loogikast ja ma parafraseerin "Mis asja sa lippad keset ööd ümber kiriku" oma peas päris tihti."Rasmus ei rahunenud."Aga tädi Olga köögist rääkis, et ta näinud ükskord ilma peata koera ja sellel tulnud kaelast otsekui tuld!"Oskar haigutas."Paistab, et tädi Olga on ise ilma peata.
Mis asja sa lippad keset ööd ümber kiriku".
Ich bin ja eigentlich kein Krimifan, aber die drei Geschichten über Kalle fand ich sehr unterhaltsam und meine Tochter auch.
What is my favourite book. I really like it. It is amazing.
One of the most important books of my childhood, especially the second entry in this trilogy. Read and listened as an audiobook about a million times.
Thanks for the girl with dragon tattoo :)
Trilogie met drie verhalen.
5 sterren.Het blijft een feest om een boek van Astrid Lidgren te lezen.
Ondanks dat de meeste verhalen al een 40 jaar oud zijn, blijven zij boeien.
Pippi Langkous was een favoriet van mij als kind, later als volwassene en nog later samen met mijn kinderen.
In deze trilogie zijn er drie boeken samen gevoegd.
De bende van de witte Roos staat centraal in alle verhalen.
Ik ben een groot fan, en ouders als jullie nog een boek zoeken om heerlijk voor te lezen in de tent of aan het water, dit is zeker een aanrader!
:)
