https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42953.Alaska
I always feel like I learned something after I have read a Michener novel. That was the case with Alaska. The isolation and vastness of the of the place is inconceivable to my mind. Michener goes a little overboard on some of the details, especially the 20,000 year old details. It takes some dediaction and patience to get through, but it's well worth it.
Beginning with the migration of mastodon and saber-toothed tigers from Siberia to Alaska across the Bering Land Bridge and continuing forward to the signing of the Alaska Statehood Act that made Alaska the 49th state in 1959, the history of the nations largest state is laid out in surprisingly readable fashion.
I now wish there were equally good books on each of the other U.S. states.
I've never read anything by Michener before and was a bit intimidated by how long the book was.
I'm glad I did because the story was really good and it read surprisingly fast.
Rather, Alaska is an epic in the original sense - a story that is told over the course of epochs, involving generations of characters and genealogies.
Along the way, the people who shaped Alaska are introduced and we follow their stories as they form the greater narrative.
We even meet the dogs and salmon who form such an integral part of Alaska's story.Michener writes with a clear, simple style.
He weaves characters together with such deftness that the reader never questions the occasional use deus ex machina or coincidence to further the greater story.
The first five hundred pages of this brick of a book were informative and entertaining enough to get me over the half-way hump, but it quickly became less of a page turner and more of a slog.
If your goal is to tell the entire cultural history of a place in a novel - telling it through individual narratives might not be a bad way to do it, especially if you´re trying for 29 weeks on the national bestseller list, but after 1000 pages of the same formula (or 1000 pages of anything) it gets a little stale.
A novel almost as big as the state!
I learned so much from this book, so many things I never realized had happened.
Guess they didn't teach us anything in history class about Alaska.
I thoroughly enjoyed the use of family through several generations.
In this day, Michener's use of strong women and getting over cultural groups intermarrying is a huge plus.
I really liked the South Dakotan that was of Scot-English- + about 10 other nationalities talking about half breeds???
Get a grip!
Michener boiled it down to it's all about who you are and what you believe.
Six hundred and sixty generations separated them from Oogruk, and in the course of time they had acquired the skills which enabled them to survive and even prosper north of the Arctic Circle, which lay nearly three hundred miles to the south.Page 214:In that memorable year 1789, when France launched the revolution which would bring its people freedom from excessive tyranny, and the former American Colonies ratified their revolution by initiating a new form of government, under a remarkable constitution ensuring freedom, a group of vicious Russian fur traders committed a great atrocity against the Aleuts on Lapak Island.Page 813:One day she had guided him toward the shore of the Knik River, and she told Flossie: "I think she wants us to go see the George Lakes," and with only this shadowy suggestion the old Irishman organized an expedition to one of the treasures of Alaska."Way up there a closed-in valley.
Weaving in triumph and tragedy at every significant point of history, Michener really makes it feel like a good novel even though you know you are getting a lot more than that.My reading about Alaska has been almost all non-fiction (John McPhee, Dana Stabenow’s travel articles, a number of memoirs by homesteaders and travelers, and the parts of George Kennan and a biography of Captain Cook that relate to it, etc.).
See how far you can get without reading it and if you can tell on your own what’s real and what’s not.
For two months the author took me on a journey, soaring over majestic mountains and ice crusted seas. I was immersed in the history of the people and their ways and shown both sides of what happens when cultures clash. Alaska unforgiving and brutal to those who don,t follow her rules but a gem to behold for those who take the chance to know her. I probably read an additional three books of info online just following up on some of the topics the author went over in the book. The closest you can get to Alaska without actually going.
As we shall see later, this produces large earthquakes in the area, and nearby Mount St. Elias, 18,008 feet, grows taller year by year.""Because of the profusion of volcanic activity along the Aleutians -- a bubbling cauldron, really -- Alaska holds an honored place, perhaps the preeminent place in the Rim of Fire, that unbroken chain of volcanoes which circles the Pacific Ocean wherever the Pacific Plate comes into violent contact with other plates.""Nowhere else could the subtle relationships of nature be so intimately observed.
Ice high, oceans low.
The ponderous mastodon lumbering toward North America, the delicate horse moving toward Asia.
Alaska, its extremities girt in ice, served as a way station for all the travelers, regardless of the direction in which they headed.
Once he gets into the third chapter following a pack of mammoths and the life of a salmon things pick up a bit but the book still drags a bit.
As Michener gets into the human portion of the novel it gets much more readable.
The book follows interwoven characters and stories (some historical figures and some fictional figures) from the beginning of human life in Alaska.
Michener hits on founding of modern Alaska, the gold rush, the salmon industry and many other topics.This book is an interesting and entertaining read if you have a lot of time to devote to the book.
You can tell it’s the holiday season, because I finished reading this book a week ago and it’s taken me until now to write my review.
Well, it IS a Michener novel, which means not only is it really, really long, but happily, it’s really, really engaging as well!When I began Alaska, I tried to recall some history of the state, to predetermine what Michener might include in the book.
That’s a subject you don’t find very often in the historical fiction books I’ve read.All and all, I really enjoyed it.
I love Michener cause I love long, sprawling, epic tales. This may be my favorite only cause Alaska is one messed up place and Michener brings that long, crazy, rough, touch, somewhat psychotic history to life. From it's earliest animal life to its struggle to become a state, every aspect of Alaska is given an in depth analysis by Michener in a at times thrilling tale of several 'families' and their development over centures. Brilliant and historical fiction at its best!
It was my goal to finish Alaska this summer and life got busy so I wasn’t sure if I’d be able to...
I loved the passion behind the people and the true testing of strength and grit and perseverance.
I loved the intertwined family lines, seeing grandchildren of previous characters interacting with grandchildren of other previous characters and seeing how the impact of what their ancestors did lasted through the years.
I came to find a good man and build a solid home.’ Adventure and a safe haven, that’s a good mix.”
Although extremely long, this was a very fascinating book. I loved the blend of fiction and nonfiction. I loved the strong female characters. Michener took various important phases of Alaska's history and brought them to life with vivid and amazing detai. Although some of the early characters were a tad two dimensional, by the end the characters were very layered and quite believable. I also enjoyed how he did an entire chapter following a salmon through it's life cycle. I look forward to reading more of his books.
The story is good, the history great. The characters fail to achieve depth. I failed to connect with most of the characters, although there were a few exceptions. However, as a read before a family trip to Alaska, this was great. Some of the story centered precisely in the area where we traveled, and Michener serves as a great preparatory teacher for anyone planning to travel in Alaska. It was also fun to see who in our family group could get through the 1000 pages first!
This is one epic work of historical fiction. Michener brings Alaska's history vividly to life.
This was the second book in my Michener Marathon - I read this because there is an entire chapter about the Matanuska Valley Colony
As time went on, I began to check back to the Fact and Fiction chapter frequently, trying to separate what came from Michener's research and what came from his imagination.
I'm not an expert on native cultures, but I've read a few other nonfiction works, and Michener's native characters didn't reflect that absolutely different worldview.
McDonnell's story Winter Too Long, Too Short for an amazing piece of fiction from an inuit perspective) Because I was no longer sure what I could count on as historical, and because the characters continued to plod along, murdering people and doing stupid things without any particular reason, I lost interest.
Well, according to this site it took me 2 1/2 months to finish this book. It was very long, in true Michener style. When the focus was on the family stories, the book was fascinating. When it was on politics and the laws of the developing state of Alaska, not so much. Definitely recommended, but don't be afraid to skim!
You know what the perfect function of James Michener novels is?
Where but on long Ironman rides would a normal person ever have time to finish it?
Alaska is perfect for this function because although it is an epic novel with the protagonist being Alaska itself, the story is told through a series of (relatively) short vignettes.
You sit on the train and slowly ride by dioramas from the past and present.
When I finished the book, I really felt like I had had a reading experience worth talking about.
11 more weeks of Ironman training; glad I have James Michener to get me through it,.
Following the formula of his other epics, Michener begins "Alaska" with geology and pre-history, imagines the lives of pre-historic people, and brings history to life.
He put words in the mouths and motivations in the hearts of historic figures and invents fictitious characters for them to interact with.
He anthropomorphizes an animal, in this case a salmon.
Michener deals head on with the clash of cultures in Alaska but sadly he wrote before disputes over the pipeline and ANWR.
When the United States purchased Alaska it remained caught in a vicious trap for decades upon decades as business interests from the lower 48, especially Seattle, sought to exploit the area’s natural resources for their own private gain When one considers today’s battle in the West over public lands versus private exploitation, or even the constant battle about drilling for oil in Alaska it is easy to see that the battles between the conservationists and the explorers never end.
Truthfully when one reads this book as a fictional history of the exploitation of native lands and native people by white Europeans this becomes a much sadder story than the one of adventure Michener intended.
I am giving this one up.
I have been trying to return to Alaska, but why bother?
It is a slog.
The novel is over 1100 pages and I am over 400 in to the story.
It follows the same format of several Michener books.
The main character is actually a location and the story begins in prehistoric times, starting with the geologic formation of the area, the flora and fauna, the migration of animals and humans, all the way up to modern times.
I think I would rather reread other Michener books(Hawaii, Centennial, The Source).
This is my first Michener book and I would describe reading it as more of a commitment than a read.
It's over 1,000 pages.
I didn't like his style at the outset but after several hundred pages I became quite fond of the author's style and story telling ability.
Michener is able to weave a story together like no one else I've read.
He will follow a character for hundreds of pages.
I liked it.
His stories and characters are rich and interesting and result in a fascinating, visual read.I'll read more Michener now that I understand him a little better.
Epic history of the 50th state. This guy does a ton of research to get ready to write his books. Love the style and the knowledge he imparts. There were parts that seemed a bit political, but all in all a good read.
With almost 1100 pages, this book takes a while to read but is helpful and I think worthwhile in understanding how Alaska developed to where it is today. Also gave me motivation to go on a cruise to Alaska--from the port of Vancouver of course!
Puh, hiermit habe ich mich echt schwer getan, obwohl es mir eigentlich ganz gut gefallen hat. Vielleicht war es doch einfach zu lang... 😩
Started out interesting then dragged on and on. Not worth the time or effort. I thought that I might enjoy Michener's books. I was wrong. Don't waste your precious time.
Amazing book! I learned so much about Alaska’s history. Perhaps my favorite story, or the one I’ve thought of he most is that of Captain Michael Healy! What an amazing guy!
Then came the Russian settlements and their barbaric cruelty in the merchant fur trade, then the American purchase of this frozen territory and its arrogant indifference to native rights, the stampede for gold, the greedy monopolizing and theft in the growing merchandising of the salmon industry, followed by a destructive war, an unstable peace, until lastly, the covert international strategies for the coming competition in exploitative capitalism."Alaska, its extremities girt in ice, served as a way station for all the travelers, regardless of the direction in which they headed.
