https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/263147.Vampire_Kisses
I don’t even care that these books were written for much, much younger readers than me, say… 14 year olds.
Sixteen year old Raven is an outsider among the people of the small town that she’s living in.
Even though she’s sixteen she sounds to be much younger than that - the book is written in first person and it’s her POV that we’re following throughout the series.
People do stare at her and some of her classmates do make fun of her, but that’s nothing that escaping to her dream world can’t fix.
I was expecting a lot more from this book.I felt that the characters were very stereotypical, two-dimensional and that the story was predictable. Also, I hate the kind of stories where the two leads 'fall in love' in a matter of 24 hours, etcetera... with hardly any interaction. This is what happens with Sterling and... oh right, Raven...I guess I shouldn't have expected a lot more from this book when the main characters name is so silly.
just warning ya.With a title like 'Vampire Kisses', I, the reader, would assume that a: this book has vampires in itb.
Whoever our character is, he/she is kissing a vampireWhile some of these are true....
Really, we don't even know "our guy" is a vampire until pretty much the last page!!!
Stupid.My brain feels smushy from reading this.
Not becuase she is a black wearing goth, no, it's her character.
She is stupid.
And the way she is written, it acts like she is better than the "normal people." She is a goth snob.
You know the type, you probably don't like the type....
This book is way too coincidental.Allow me to discuss the irony, which Vampire Kisses has more than enough of (and this is still an understatement).
The main character's (Raven) parents used to be what she called "hippies" when she was a kid.
I understand that I may be stereotyping the whole concept of being a 'hippie' here, but that is exactly what the characters, and, indirectly the author herself, are doing anyways — stereotyping.
From 'hippies' to goths to vampires, et cetera.And another thing about her name - isn't Raven a goth name?
How in the world did those two "hippies" know that they were eventually going to raise a goth kid?
I really enjoyed this book. It was very funny and now I must read the next in this series.
Rating Clarification: 0 starsSimply terrible, just TERRIBLE.SUPERFICIAL, STEREOTYPICAL, CLICHÉ.
Plainly and excruciatingly bad, BAD, BAD.
The facts have no union; is like watching a bad TV series, a succession of changing scenes but with no explanations anywhere, and a bunch of systematized ideas and shallowness.
An assortment of conventionalized and “popular” elements put together with the apparent intent of being cool and special but obviously failing miserably.
What a painful, painful read.I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS BOOK, I repeat, I do not recommend this book, if you do read it BE WARNED you will never get back the hours you wasted.
Vampire Kisses was thoroughly enjoyable and I will forever remember parts of it.I loved all of the characters, they were all really well-written and had their typical attributes.
I really liked Raven, I had quite a soft-spot for her as she was caring and different and didn't care what anyone else thought of her.Alexander was a great character too, he was such a cool vampire.
I would recommend it to anyone who's a fan of vampires and anyone who just wants a good laugh, or even a light read that won't take long to devour.
I love the vampire kisses series because it was the first vampire love novel i read before twilight came out and i am able to relate to this book a howl lot.
I would recomend people to read this book and the howl series granted it is not as long or as good as twilight but it is worth the read.
This person turned out to be the misteryous teen vampire who just so happened to move into the old abandoned house.
I hope any and all who read this do go and try to find these books and read them all.
This book is kind of like a salad when all you really want is a steak.
You start to read it and you really, really want the two main characters to get together and thats all well and good.
It would be a better book if the main character wouldn't whine so much and get over the whole damned "I'm goth and no one understands me" bullshit.
There are other books following this one in a series, I do not recommend them and I will not be reading them.
I must admit that this is a guilty pleasure type of book. Its very simple with not much depth to it but is a cute book. Though it is not something to read for a life changing experience it is cute and easy to read and follow so give it a try. Fall in love with Raven and her Vampire and follow them through all their terrifyingly wonderful adventures. Though there is some originality to the book it comes in the form of non-original vampire myths and legends (garlic, crosses, sunlight etc.) so just enjoy it for what it is.
Someone hand me the forks.I have no desire to be able to read after finishing Vampire Kisses by Ellen Schreiber.The main character is *goth* Raven *goth* Madison who *goth* is apparently a goth.
Then, the author finally decides to get to the point of the story, and introduces a "creepy guy" (we don't know his proper name until later, whiny Raven just dubs him this out of her own shallow understanding).
Of course, he is a perfect gentleman, and is yet another cardboard cutout who has no purpose in life other to love Raven.
a re-read for me.i never realized how much of a drama queen raven can be.but still really funny.
Oh god, what the fuck was this?Stupid plot.Stupid characters.Stupid writing.Everything about this book was so gooddarn stupid! How are these books even published?This book was for teeny boppy girls who are hopeless romantics and fantasize an Edward Cullen will someday come to get them. I was sick and couldn't move from my bed, hence settled for reading this whole series as it was the only one available in my mobile. Otherwise I swear to god, I'd not have read this shit in a million years.
This is the third book by her that I've read, and she has a very light, ditzy kind of style of writing. Or maybe it's just her main characters, I don't know. Raven is a total perky goth. Like, seriously. She's very perky, it would be very annoying if I didn't like perky goths, so I'm warning you in advance. But here again, vampire romance. It was actually pretty cute, and there's also totally something going on with this other guy that does not get fully developed, but hey, there's 2 more books now, so maybe something will happen.
I am glad this was a library rental (I'd have kicked myself if I even scrounged up a penny to buy this tripe), although I felt I was doing my library a real disservice when I gave it back...So, spunky, yet incredibly moany teen goth Raven has taken that stupid, cutesy saying of: 'When other little girls wanted to be ballerinas, I wanted to be a vampire!', and taken it to heart.
Alexander was barely developed by Schreiber, and Raven's narrative annoyed me after the first few chapters, as she seemingly insisted on everything going her way.The dialogue, as well as the aforementioned narrative is just pitiful.
Nothing is ever boring and Raven is as funny as can be.
This novel is kinda of what I wish my town was like, everyone is pretty good people with only a few bad apples instead of the other way around.
I'd love to hand out with Raven as she'd be so much fun, I'd probably end up in some kind of trouble but still, she'd never be boring.
This is very short book, I read it once in less than two hours.
It's written easy to understand and in a way that allows you to read this book even faster.
It's a simple feel good book.
A perfect teen-read for Halloween. Raven, a 16 year old goth, loves vampires and wishes to meet one. Her greatest desire comes to reality when 17 year old Alexander moves to the creepy mansion up the hill. He is so mysterious that he never gets out of his place, he paints the whole time and he is home-schooled. Lovely like "The little vampire" and so small that is read in a couple of hours pleasantly!
This book sucked.
She argues with the hottest guy in school and she works at this travel place and at she seems completely fine with wearing bright red lipstick and a pretty red dress.Wait whaaaaT?
I thought she was goth.Apparently she doesn't even know what goth is.Then she befriends this middle aged lady who dresses all in white alllllllll the time.
I though the book was called vampire kisses.....
They kissed once.I started reading the second book to his series to see if hrs author had changed or if the characters had changed.
This series still sucks.Negative 3 stars.
Vampire Kisses (Vampire Kisses, #1), Ellen Schreiber
After a brief and promising introduction of sorts, Vampire Kisses lapses into a too-cute-to-be-hip tale of Raven's early school years and the birth of her baby brother before switching to the present day and adopting a too-cool-for-school attitude that would work if it were actually as hip as it tries to be, but is instead very much geek trying for goth and way missing the mark.
Sadly, the best thing about Vampire Kisses is the synopsis on the back cover.
Raven's first years were spent surrounded by lava lamps and glow-in-the-dark posters, with her parents playing games with her, eating junk food, and watching old horror films on the small black and white television.
Now the only goth girl in a town dubbed Dullsville, Raven is still a social outcast who enjoys horror movies, black lipstick, and pushing her parents to the edge.
Could Alexander be a real, live vampire?
As Raven gets closer to Alexander, she realizes that being a vampire might not matter so much as being loved for who she is.
I had to force myself to finish reading this book and that took a great effort.
Good books do not require an effort to be read.You keep expeting the story to give you something interesting and it fails to do so.
Yes I did say " a chirpy goth".
He is shy and somewhat awkward.Not what you expect from your typical vampire hero.I don't feel the need to talk about the other characters since they can be summed up as 'annoying and boring'.
Nothing personal.I recommend this book to those who are seriously into the vampire reads and/or have great patience with annoying novels.
Basic InfoFormat: Audio Pages/Length: 4hrs and 31minsGenre: Young Adult; VampireAt A GlanceLove Triangle/Insta Love/Obsession?: Insta and Obsession...Cliff Hanger: ehTriggers: n/aRating: 2 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot: 5Characters: 4World Building: 4Flow:  6Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 5Ending: 6Total: 4In DeptBest Part: Pass.Worst Part: INSTA LIKE WHOAThoughts Had: seriously?!; are you crazy!?; yah you're crazy.
ConclusionContinuing the Series: eh.Recommending: no.Short Review: Sheesh.
It was short.
They had insta love like crazy.
And to top it off (view spoiler)[ THERE IS NO VAMPIRES IN THIS BOOK AT ALLLLLLL (hide spoiler)].
Book Boyfriend: N/ABest Friend Material: The british girl's whose name i don't recall.
It looks like it was written by a 10 years old girl who wrote a fanfiction while daydreaming about a handsome vampire as her boyfriend. Not my cup of tea.
Rated 3.5
Okay maybe it sounds actually wrong because I have a thing for vampire books for forever like way before Twilight was even written on the paper.
Yeah so you know I have a thing for Morganville vampires because it just clicks for me, I love main characters to bits.
And that type is Vamp YA books, if I love the main character that is it, all the way to my guilty pleasures list.
Sounds a lot like my friends and me once upon a time Lol Tho, we did not dress Gothic exactly but yeah vampires...and well werewolves for some of us...oh who am I kidding?
It’s like the literate version of My Immortal.Take every Goth stereotype known to man, add some really out dated vampire references (including a cringe inducing cameo by Anne Rice), and top that off with a couple of romances that don’t make any sense then you have Vampire Kisses.Well, this book makes PC and Kristin Cast look good.That’s something.Actually, I take that back .
And bad middle grade at that.If the book would’ve been pitched as a parody, I think it would’ve been great.However, as an actual novel, I’m sort of flummoxed about how it got published.Well, I know how it got published.Twilight obviously.
Despite the fact that Raven acts more like a mallgoth than a real goth bothered me, but other than that, she was a decent character.
She mentions how annoying her parents and kid brother - Nerd Boy - can be sometimes but she still loves them.Our sexy vampire love interest is Alexander, who comes across as a bit of a stereotypical good guy.
The whole book consists of Raven trying to figure out if Alexander is a vampire (spoiler: in the end, it turns out he is!
She stuck up for a girl everyone beat up, she takes no shit from anyone and she really knows what she wants - to become a vampire.
Almost every character I read about was afraid of the dark or at least found it creepy.
The second book will be full of Raven tearing the whole world down to find him, no doubt.This book seemed like supernatural at first.
Though it was really intertaining, I give it 3.5 stars just because it was all over the place and I didn't like any other character beside Raven.
Bite me!This book was recommended to me by my overdrive app and I would have never read it otherwise but I'm very glad I did.
Way to go overdrive app!I loved that this book was not long or dull.
It seems like all the stories I have recently been reading are all freaking 12 to 18 hours long and I appreciated this author keeping it short and sweet.
She is different and hasn't ever fit in with her peers but has never let that deter her or dictate her path and I really liked that!
