https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1249595.Wife_for_Hire
Wife For Hire is a pre-Plum novel by popular American author, Janet Evanovich.
It is the third book in the Elsie Hawkins series, on whom, Evanovich says, Grandma Mazur was modelled.
Fans of the Plum series will be interested to know that in this book, Grandma Mazur’s famous big gun in the handbag has its prototype.Maggie Toone needs to get away from Riverside, away from her mom and Aunt Marvina: she needs somewhere quiet to write her novel.
With Maggie Toone as his wife he will look stable and settled.This is a cute romance with plenty of zany characters.
Living in the small town of Skogen Vermont, Hank Mallone’s youthful antics were part of town legends - as entertainment.
Maggie had decided she needed someplace quiet to write her book and the offer of a fake marriage might just be exactly what she needed.Each of the characters have such a sense of humor and wit that, when put together makes for a laugh out loud story.
There is also a love-at-first-sight romance that has a few highs and quickly turns the fake marriage into a real proposition.
Before she made it big with the Stephanie Plum books, Janet Evanovich wrote several screwball romances.
If you like Stephanie, you'll probably really enjoy this, too.
Maggie Toone wants to at least take a year off from her teaching job, if not outright quit, to write a book based on the diary of her Aunt Kitty, who was a madam.
The love scenes are a bit more explicit than anything in the Stephanie books, but well done.
And then there's the ongoing mystery of someone trying to steal Aunt Kitty's diary.
Recommended to Stephanie Plum fans, Evanovich fans, and anyone who likes a screwy, slightly sexy, comedy/romance.
This book was, for all intents and purposes, horrible.It had a weak plot solved in the most anticlimactic way possible.
(Literally!) It had kind of weak characterization and a horrid case of instalove.
(Not even a better love story than Twilight, y’all.) That ending…huhhhhhhhhhgh.But it was just so.
Fun. It was compulsively readable, and had just enough mystery to make the love story not slip into the saccharine-and-sickening category.
So, a compromise of 3 stars it is.WIFE FOR HIRE was not a book I’d’ve hired if it hadn’t been sitting on the shelf in my beach house…but it was a fun ride nonetheless.
Silly. Weak. Quick read. Cute trash. Not my kind of book and I was definitely not expecting anything profound or life changing. However, this book belongs to a whole new and superior level of uselessness. I managed to finish reading it at the expense of my intelligence being severely assaulted. This book and its content or the lack of it, is everything that is wrong with the way we approach love these days. So much for diversification - never again.
It was like a bad Hallmark movie. You knew it was going to be okay at the end, but the process made you roll your eyes countless times.
I love Janet Evanovich's Stephanie Plum series so when I saw she was the author I grabbed this book.
Wife for Hire is the third in her Elise Hawkins series.
Maggie Toone is hired to bt Hank Mallone's to act as his wife in order to get a loan from the bank.
Since nothing is really required of her besides appearing as Hank's wife, she takes the offer.
This book is laugh out loud funny and introduces us to a range of characters that have good hearts even if they are misguides.
If you like Janet and enjoy laughing, you'll enjoy this book.
Her late Aunt Kitty was a Madame and Maggie thinks her diary will make a perfect book.
Hank too has been a bit wild in the past but needs to prove to his father, president of the local bank, that he is settled down with a wife so his father will lend him money for his beloved apple crop.
"Wife for Hire" is a very funny but extremely light romance novel.
One plot line - why someone is trying to steal Aunt Kitty's diary - could have been better.
"Wife for Hire" is short on plot and long on humor.
Good early Evanovich, even though a nearly plotless love story...We didn't know Janet Evanovich wrote romance stories earlier in her career, but we stumbled across this title and couldn't resist seeing how she did before she got famous with her Stephanie Plum bounty hunter series.
The good news is: Janet is just as funny and whimsical here as are her better known recent works.
The bad news is, the plot synopsis can be stated in about 20 words: man hires woman to pose as wife, they immediately fall insanely in love, and will they stay together after the gig??
"Let me get this straight. You want to marry me so you can autograph copies of your book for the quilting club?""Yes."He couldn't resist teasing a little, "I don't know. That's not very romantic. I'm not sure that's a good reason for marriage." You crack me up Janet Evanovich. I loved the story, it was fast, simple and funny... Though, I'm glad it isn't the first book I read for Janet Evanovich.
A quick funny read to break up my harder quests. This is the first of Evanovich's numerous titles that I've read. It was fun to just get lost in this for a few hours and laugh along with the characters. There was a LOT going on, REALLY fast paced and a super quick wrap up. Good for in between some of my lengthier more emotional reads!
I just love Janet Evanovich!! She writes about real people with real problems!!! Liked the idea behind the story but liked her One for the money, Two for the dough series better.
This book was a quick read and really funny. I love the between the Plum stories.
First you have Maggie, who just wants some time for herself and to write her book.
Maggie definitely will not agree to that.Then we have Hank, who just wanted a blonde girl to play the role of his dear wife.
Things change when they get to Vermont and Maggie sees the marriage she has signed herself to.This was such a funny and romantic story.
What a few missed heard words can make you do, and at the same time bring our couple together.“They had me trussed up like a Thanksgiving turkey, brought here in a flour sack.
She decides to do it, but needs time off from work, but also needs an income while she writes it.Hank Mallone is also a mitfit in his own town.
But after years of having fun, Hank decides to set roots in his hometown.
The bank does not want to grant him a loan, because is known to not set any roots.
So he decides to hire a wife so town folk would think he's finally settling down.Maggie and Hank are brought together by their own needs, but then blooms a love.My thoughts about the romance, is Hank and Maggie had fallen in love too suddenly.
I'm not a huge fan of romances, so I'm probably not the best person to judge this.
While the premise is a little shaky and the characters start out pretty flat, the second half of the book really picks up, and parts of it are very funny.
I liked the little mini-mystery; it's enough to keep the book from just being "romance," yet it's not serious enough to change the book's overall tone.
(I don't tend to read many mysteries either, as I find them stressful.
OK, so this isn't the most emotionally deep or content heavy book on the planet...
Longtime Janet Evanovich fans will recognize some similarities between the characters in this book to some of those in the Plum series.
Elsie Hawkins is a character in this book as she is in a few of the other early romances written by Ms. Evanovich.
Hank and Maggie have some chemical attraction and there are some sexy and sweet moments between them.
It helped me pass a gloomy Saturday afternoon curled up on the couch; it was short and sweet and just what I needed.
Short book read it in a couple of hours, very predictable, only read it cause my mother in law left it while visiting. Typical romance novel if you like Janet Evanovich you'll like this book.
Lots of fun! Totally light and fluffy, and not at all meant to be taken seriously, which is just what I needed this week. It took about an hour to read.
Loved this book. Really enjoyed this. and just loved how it ended actually shed a tear
I listened to this one in the car on my way to and from work. It provided many laughs. I love Elsie Hawkins's character, she is just such a fiesty old lady.
Quick read. Adorable. Made me laugh a lot.
Maggie is sick of her life and wants to write a book based upon the diaries of a departed aunt who just happened to be a madam.
When Maggie meets Hank's father, she discloses her desire to write the book.
Oddly in a small town, the people are nice about this and even clean up the house after wrecking it while trying to find the diaries.
Finally, the tension between the two gives way and they become intimate with Hank asking Maggie to actually marry him.
When Amy finally finishes the book, Hank again asks Amy to marry him and she agrees.
Hated it.
I got about 1/3 of the way through (a little more) and couldn't buy any of it.
he has no money...
so he hires a housekeeper to entice the protagonist to pretend to be his wife.
There are scenes where they are arguing loudly and the housekeeper says the guests can here...
and the argument included discussion about the fake marriage.
But, magically, that part isn't heard.
Or even from the very beginning, he meets her, knows she's trouble and he'll want her, but hires her anyway.
And is magnetically drawn to her etc.
Blerg.
I see her name pop up often so I thought I would read one of her books.
Good thing it was short because it was dreadful.
It felt so fake and stupid that instead of envisioning the characters all i could picture is some creepy old lady typing this book.
Also she uses so many cliche phrases like “nape of the neck” I had my eyes rolling.
I don’t think I’ve ever read a book before that was so bad, so devoid of everything important in a novel.
It’s just pages of words.
Corny, annoying words.
This reminded me a little of the Stephanie Plum series.
I loved that series and this one as well.
It was funny, quirky and it had the added perk of an on/off love affair between Maggie and Hank.
Hank was an apple farmer who needed a loan from his father (bank president), so he made a contract with Maggie to be a pretend wife.
Maggie agreed because she wanted a quiet place to write a book based on her aunt's diaries.
You will enjoy this fun novel and you will love small town romeo Hank and beautiful, sensational Maggie.
This is a pre-Stephanie Plum book. It was a fun, quick read. Set in the small town of Skogen, Vermont, Hank Mallone hires Maggie Toone to pose as his wife for 6 months. She spends the time writing a book based on the diaries of her madame, Aunt Kitty and trying to resist falling for Hank. The characters were likable and it was enjoyable reading about the shenanigans in this close knit town were gossip is rampant and memories are long. 💕
If you want a quick read with a bit of laughs , here's the book for you. Elisa is the house maid and cook for Hank Mallone but not only is she the maid , she's got a feisty spirit to her too that makes her carry a gun around that she nick named Little Leroy. Too funny. Maggie takes on Hank's offer to be his pretend wife for six months to try to get himself a loan from his stubborn father's bank while Maggie writes a book about her Madam of an aunt.
So glad I bought this on clearance. I'd hate to think I spent good money on it. I assumed, because it was Evanovich, that it would be well done even though fluff romance is not my favorite genre. I was right that it was a fast read. I was right that it was fluff. I was wrong that it was well done. Apparently she didn't hit her groove until she did the Stephanie Plum series because this is actually poorly-written.
Maggie is out of work so she answered an ad with an agency and soon finds herself a "wife for hire." Hank needs a wife so that his parents, especially his father, will think he has settled down and will give him a loan for his apple orchard business. Hank and Maggie begin the charade but soon find themselves very attracted to each other. A nice romantic quick read.
