https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41021344-thomas-jefferson
In Jefferson's early days of life we learn that he was born into a reputable known family.
Author Jon Meacham tells us that it was said that Jefferson studied 15 hours a day, rising at dawn and reading until 2 o'clock each morning.
I'm still a 'newbie' when it comes to reading about our past presidents--certainly not even close to being a historian....so, I'm aware I don't come to these books with a depth of knowledge as others might -- but little by little I'm soaking in past U.S Political history.
Like Washington or Patrick Henry (‘give me liberty or give me death’), Jefferson could perfectly well see that slavery was shameful and his new nation would at some stage need to lance that boil; he could equally well see the contradiction between that sense of horror and his continuing to own slaves and, in Hemings’s case, to maintain a sexual relationship with one of them – a sexual relationship with someone over whom he had power of ownership.Meacham does not skirt around these matters but simply states the facts, points to Jefferson’s silence on the Hemings issue, and talks about the hints at justification that came from his pen: slavery was simply not an issue that could be tackled at that time, or not for a bearable political cost – though the political cost that would in the end be borne, in a bitter civil war and the first assassination of a president, was arguably vastly higher for having been delayed.
Choosing to infuse literary breath into one of the key actors in much of the early creation of the state and its constitutional foundations, Meacham not only offers an over-arching narrative, but delves into the corners of Jefferson's life, allowing the reader to have a better and well-rounded approach to this key historical figure.
I would have hoped for more time on the Continental Congress and creation of the constitutional documents, for these were areas of greatest importance to Jefferson in years to come.
This is a marvelous biography of Thomas Jefferson, who is arguably America's most complicated Founding Father.
(As Jon Meacham noted, it seems Jefferson meant only white, land-owning men were created equal.)A few years ago I had the chance to visit Monticello, Jefferson's home in Virginia, and I've been interested in reading a detailed biography about him ever since.
I listened to this book on audio, which was read beautifully by the late, great Edward Hermann.
Unless you've been living off the grid for two years, you know we live in trying political times, both in America and around the world.
Rather than a idealogue bound to one philosophy, Jefferson was a pragmatic politician, and while he believed in the principles of freedom he espoused in the words he penned in the declaration, the means he chose to approach and uphold those principles changed depending on his position.As they say, where you stand depends on where you sit and examples from Jefferson's life are plentiful.As a member of the opposition party and vice president during the Adams Administration, Jefferson vigorously opposed the Alien and Sedition Acts as a blot on the liberty and freedom promised by the Bill of Rights.
Meacham does a good job connecting all the big historical touchstones of Jefferson's remarkable life: writing the Declaration of Independence (check); serving as an ambassador to France (check); serving in Washington's cabinet (check); winning election as the third president of the U.S., negotiating the Louisiana Purchase, and founding the University of Virginia in his later years(check, check and check).
The Lewis and Clark expedition is barely a footnote here, perhaps because the author knew Stephen Ambrose had already told Jefferson's role in that adventure about as well as any writer could.
We don't get a whole lot of new insight into Jefferson's relationship with Sally Hemings for that matter.
A big disappointment for me.
Meacham spends a lot of time in Virginia laying the groundwork for Jefferson's character - how he loved control but hated conflict.
We get to know the persona of Jefferson - his love of good food, fine wine and the company of others.
Speaks of Jefferson's faults and foibles (slavery and debt.) He recounts most of the major Jefferson sticking points: Callendar, Hamilton, Maria Cosway, Adams friendship.
Agree that we really needed a readable one volume Jefferson bio to stand along those of Adams and Washington and Hamilton.
Well-written and fast paced, Meacham’s accounting of Jefferson’s life is both entertaining and enjoyable, and requires little patience or fortitude on the part of the reader.
Only in the extensive endnotes does the reader find a multi-page note admitting to, and describing, the controversy.In most ways, however, “Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power” lived up to the hype which has surrounded the book since its publication.
A good, very readable "popular" biography of Thomas Jefferson that focuses on Jefferson's use of power and influence to achieve his desired ends throughout his life.
While still a Jefferson admirer - my library is full of Jeffersonian memorabilia, the bloom has somewhat gone off the rose over the years as I have continued to reassess the man in light of more recent scholarship, as well as in viewing the political turmoil of his time through the lens of the political turmoil of the last 20 years.
It's rare when this happens. I just finished the prologue to this book. This eary in the book, I had the overwhelming feeling that I was reading something GREAT. Oh, I'm going to enjoy this book!!!
Obviously with all biographies, how you frame your topic directs the course of the work.
Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power clearly lays out its "frame" in the title.
Unfortunately, the author spends more time harping on Jefferson's supposed affair with Sally Hemings than on the way Jefferson accumulated power.
And finally, history obviously proves Jefferson sought power, as he worked his way into the presidency.
But I acknowledge that possibly it was the popularity of this book that made these things ubiquitous with our third president, not the author recycling common knowledge.
Interestingly, there was talk of secession at both points, and in both instances the North was seen as leaving the union, perhaps to form a country with British possessions in North America (Canada) and to have a more "royalist" government, maybe even go back to British rule.One of Jefferson's greatest fears was that the new United States would give up the democratic ideal and have a "president for life" or even a younger son of the British king as its king.His relationship with John Adams was also interesting.
The two were close when they were both abroad as diplomats but politics separated them as Adams became the head of the Federalist Party and Jefferson of the Republicans.
Rather stunned by all the glowing reviews of this book.
It struck me that Meacham told, much more than showed, the story of Jefferson.
I found myself wishing for more detail at every turn (Ben Franklin lent the word "self-evident" to the Declaration?
would sure love to know more about that discussion; Jefferson lost his horse and got dysentery on his way to report to the House of Burgesses?
what must that have been like in the 1700s?) Perhaps I just couldn't get into the mood of the book, which sometimes happens.
I'm moving onto Ellis' American Sphinx to see if I like that better.
I have read several biographies either about TJ or where he was a significant character.
In all of these works I have been searching for the source of his publicly perceived greatness.
In this book I feel I have come a bit closer to understanding it but I, as yet, cannot accept it.
Reading this book I have added to my knowledge of this man.
Adams, a monarchist?
Yes, he had many talents but do his talents excuse his lack of character?
This was an exceptionally well researched and written book but I come away from it still believing TJ was our first sleazy president.
great book
This deep understanding of context as a primary animator of history is perhaps best seen in Joseph Ellis' "Revolutionary Summer" which I reviewed several months ago.The above notwithstanding, Jefferson is a man of great words.
I was particularly reminded of the beauty and relevance of his first inaugural address -- after a very divisive election ultimately decided in the House, he sought to assure and lead the whole: "every difference of opinion is not a difference of principle.
Therefore it is good to occasionally be reminded of how great Jefferson really was.
Meacham Points out that once President, Jefferson had the creative flexibility to rise above party dogma, and make decisions that were best for the country.
The best Jefferson biography I've read, if I had a criticism it would be that because Meacham has limited himself to one volume, by necessity he doesn't cover many issues in depth, but he should be lauded for the sheer amount of topics he does manage to cover.
He viewed slavery as an evil but owned slaves himself (one of whom, Sally Hemings, he almost certainly exploited sexually).
In short, he was the most devious man not named Ben Franklin.Despite Meacham's theme of a politician who mastered the art of power to successfully reconcile philosophy with practicality.
Meacham is leery of validating Jefferson and Sally Hemings's relationship.
Instead Meacham offers up that Jefferson was comfortable with the essential contradiction of the man devoted to "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness" who not only kept slaves but did not free them at his death-as did others,like George Washington.In all, this was pretty good.
The complex life and the politics of the third President of the United States in a dramatic period in history are brought to the fore in Jon Meacham’s Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power.
Throughout the next 500 pages, Meacham follows Jefferson in and out of Virginia with stops in Philadelphia, Paris, New York, and finally Washington D.C., but through everything a special focus was on how he developed his political acumen to achieve the vision he had for the United States in the world.Jefferson’s relationship with Sally Hemings is discussed throughout the book when important moments in both their lives cross.
Historically and personally interesting biography of Thomas Jefferson and the times in which he lived.
It's astonishing how few men of his day worked tirelessly and for most of their productive lifetimes to fend off enemies who would take over the young states or western parts of the US and to ensure that this country didn't become what the colonists had just left behind.
If more of us would read this kind of history, we would appreciate our country in new ways.
What we have today was hard-won and lives were dedicated to providing our freedoms, whole lifetimes, in fact.
Jon Meacham provides an excellent popular biography on the life of Thomas Jefferson.
Jefferson wore many proverbial hats from philosopher, statesman, scientist, and farmer during his life and Meacham captures all of those in this biography.
For those looking for an indepth look or have read a lot about Jefferson this is probably not going to shed a lot of new light other than spending some extra time on his years as governor that other biographies skirt over.
Won this Advanced Readers Edition of - Thomas Jefferson: The Art of Power - through GR Giveaways, after some consideration whether I should enter the Giveaway in the first place.
There already exists a body of work on Jefferson that is spectacular – noting just the five-volume 1975 Pulitzer Prize winning effort of Dumas Malone (Jefferson and his Time) and the 1997 National Book Award winner of Joe Ellis (American Sphinx: The Character of Thomas Jefferson) as examples.
The Prologue sets the tone nicely, but then Part I runs off 55 pages of background and childhood that, while of mild interest, had nothing to do with the Art of Power.
Meacham shows him as a man opposed to slavery, yet who kept over 600 slaves on his plantations.
Jefferson's interest in all areas of learning was an exceptional part of his personality.
He showered his grandchildren with gifts he could not afford, but made his slave children work on the plantation and showed them no affection.
Jefferson's feud with Adams is also a significant part of the book.
Great books not only hold your attention, but make you want to learn more about the other individuals in the story.
I can think of at least three or four individuals in his story that would be great biographies to read.
A fascinating look at the life of the third president of the United States. His immense impact on our world and culture carries into today's world. The detail and insights were incredible and it's worth listening to the entire book (as I did). I highly recommend the experience.
With this biography, Meacham appears to continue to float in that narrative sphere between popular journalist-historians (Alter, Woolfe) and popular academic-historians (Ellis, Kearns Goodwin, Morris).
They write similar types of biographies and seem to inhabit a similar clumped intellectual range.That said, while Meacham's style will never perfectly thrill academic historians, this biography is interesting and paced-well and shouldn't trouble too many presidential history buffs.
Meacham has never had a real boat-tipping agenda with his biographies.
He did this wonderfully with FDR and Jackson and has continued his record with this excellent bio of Jefferson.
I found myself wondering, often, as I read this book, what Jefferson must have thought and felt as a young man, as he penned the Declaration of Independence that hot summer in Philadelphia -- whether he could have imagined what a revered document it would still be, close to 2 1/2 centuries later?
There are many more minutely detailed accounts of his life to be found, but "The Art of Power" give a good, thorough overview of the 80+ years of our 3rd President's life and accomplishments -- and some of his faults as well.It's fascinating that Jefferson and John Adams, ex-presidents, political adversaries, but old friends to the end, both died on July 4, 1826 -- the 50th anniversary of the Declaration.
I slogged through this well-searched biography of Jefferson (TJ), who I admire and respect.
That made me thinks, “Why didn’t I spend 10 minutes on Wikipedia and have hours more for non fiction?
He had children with his wife’s half sister (white dad and slave mom), who were not acknowledged at the time.
Good for him, he drank a lot of wine every night.The one thing that is not in Wiki that comes through all the time in this text is how TJ was afraid of the Federalists (e.g., Hamilton, and even John Adams).
This is another fascinating audible book about one of the post revolutionary presidents.
Author Meacham presents Jefferson as a man of power and control.
He also presents a good deal of information about Jeffersons relationship with Sally Hemmings.
It goes without saying that he was a complex character with a combination of friendliness and determination.
I was fascinated to learn the Jeffersons wife of 10 years was a half sister of Sally Hemmings.
She died young and Jefferson promised her on her deathbed that he would never remarry.
The early deaths of children and adults is a constant occurrence in that era.
I don't usually read Presidential biographies but this one had a little different approach which made it worthwhile..
Rather than probing Jefferson's personal life in-depth, the author provided us a word picture on those aspects of his personality and style which gave him the ability to help shape and govern the new and rather amorphous place called the United States of America.
I also found his "supporting cast" in the government quite fascinating.
Meacham shows us that Jefferson was rather an enigma and not always a paragon of idealism.
Overall, it was an interesting approach to the man and his time.
interesting and detailed book looking at the life of thomas jefferson by a leading political writer and gives a different insight into the private and political man in founding of a new nation.
