https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60929.Dawn
I've never really read anything like this before. It had some of the most alien aliens I've ever come across, and it spends a lot of time exporing their physiology, gender, sexuality, and society, all parts that I really enjoyed.The whole thing is very unnerving, blunt, and extremely uncomfortable in places. This novel very much felt like the first third of a larger story, so I'll definitely be finishing this series.
The last book I enjoyed nearly this much was The Lathe of Heaven so I guess I need to give in and accept that speculative fiction with feminist consciouness is my true love.I love that Lilith is angry with her captors, that she doesn't lose her drive to be free, ever.
Butler takes her investigation of consent to a whole new level through the Oankali's ability to read human chemistry but not thought, to the idea of chemical consent.I love that Butler takes emotion seriously at all levels and fills Lilith's dilemma with conflict, with arguments for both sides.
This possibility of sexual diversity among the Oankali (who are of three sexes) is not mentioned, but the same is true of the human group.
As one of the earliest African-American female science fiction writers, Octavia Butler is a must for anyone who reads sci-fi.
Fourteen of her works were nominated for the Locus Award during her career, including each book in the Xenogenesis series, but she only had one win, the novelette “Bloodchild.” Dawn is the first book in the Xenogenesis series, published in 1987, and is a science fiction classic.
It achieves what the best in science fiction has to offer: by looking at humanity’s interaction with an alien species, it examines what it means to be human and to be emotionally intimate.
Lilith is a difficult hero, reluctantly taking the lead in re-awakening her fellow humans to be a vanguard of a new civilization and possibly a new race.Butler’s phenomenal talent creates for us a richly complex science fiction story but Dawn also acts as a vehicle whereby Butler can explore themes of sexuality, isolation, gender, race and species.
Another Biblical connection could be Lilith as a Moses figure leading a second wave of humans to a promised land earth.Dawn also reminds me of a primer in sociology.
Each small group decided what people and in what order would be awakened and we also decided how the new world would be organized.
Now it is time for Lilith to lead them back to her home world, but life among the Oankali on the newly resettled planet will be nothing like it was before.The Oankali survive by genetically merging with primitive civilizations—whether their new hosts like it or not.
In the wake of a species-ending nuclear war, the earthlings aren't grateful to the Oankali for rescue, they're angry that they had no choice, no say, no chance to refuse being saved if it meant being used and manipulated for and by the Oankali.Butler put her finger squarely on the conflict: The earthlings were given no choice.
It’s really okay because we are well immersed in the slow process of discovery by the lead character, Lillith.
I’ll say no more on their nature and powers.I can say that Lillith goes through a long process of horror, defiance, despair, and eventual seduction to the cause working with the aliens.
They want Lillith to help wake up and facilitate the acceptance of more humans for the colonization effort.
None are as adaptable as she is, and many see her as a traitor or, due to genetic enhancements the Oankali bestow on her, no longer human.
I have such conflicted feelings about this book.
The more I read on though, the more unsettling things became.
I was disgusted and could no longer enjoy this bizarre story because of how very disturbing things became.
I finished this book late last night and fell asleep thinking about it.
I'm not sure if I want to read the rest of the series or not.
I feel like the humans in this book, unable to admit what I really want because of how upset I am by it!!
It deals with racism, xenophobia, slavery, apartheid, totalitarianism, lack of freedom, imprisonment, psychological manipulation, humiliation, mental torment, lack of intimacy, fear – of unknown and of one’s most inner desires.
From another point of view, it just shows how deeply terrified we are of our desires to be fulfilled and how we repel pleasure if it’s gained out of norms.
Fear is a powerful emotion which can drive someone insane.It’s also about survival of the species, which we are all familiar with.
But is it even torment?The story is character driven, no doubt about it.
And with only one condition — but one that would transform human beings forever.Octavia Butler doesn’t write comfortable science fiction stories.
She wants to challenge the reader with truly alien beings, and then present them in a surprisingly benign and benevolent light, while making humans look ignorant and brutish.
Lilith is a fairly tough and independent-minded woman, and that is why they think she can tolerate the extreme psychological dislocation of being awoken aboard an organic alien spaceship.The early portion of the book deals with her trying to understand the sheer strangeness of the Oankali.
As a feminist-minded reader, I seek these stories out because feminist writers are more likely to have fully realized female characters, less sexualized violence, and something interesting to say about sex and gender roles (or at least they don't tend to fall back on old gender cliches).
The Oankali are a 3 gender race: male, female, and the sexless "ooloi".
Butler even goes to great lengths to explain how Oankali are practically slaves to their chemicals and drives, and that being gay or even single is just not thought of or mentioned.
If I binge on them now there will not be any more new Butler books to read and I will only have rereads to look forward to.
As I love both Wild Seed and Kindred very much her books are safe bets for me, so I may well save them for a rainy day.Dawn is volume 1 of Ms. Butler’s Lilith's Brood trilogy.
As always Octavia Butler's prose is elegant, smooth and very readable, another major attraction for me is that her compassion always shines through her work and while reading her books I sometime feel a little melancholic that she is not around any more to make the world a better place.NoteVideo clip: Author N.
Going to hold off on a review for now, and blog about the whole trilogy when I finish it.
Octavia Butler is skilled at making me re-examine my beliefs about humanity.The Oankali are interesting and somewhat threatening aliens.
Humans are treated like lab animals, like livestock, and like pets, although by the end of the book there are complications that cannot completely be explained by those relationships.
How much would I be willing to endure merely to survive?Dawn asks many more questions than it provides answers to and I will be most interested to read the second and third installments in the series.Book 213 in my science fiction and fantasy reading project.
Like zombie-lit does with undead hordes (but seriously, done waaayyy better), Butler uses ETs as the mirror held to humanity to show us our strengths and (mostly) our weaknesses. This is a compelling narrative with a rich, well crafted female protagonist and science-fiction elements interesting to both veterans of the genre and initiates alike. I read this aloud to my wife - a reader not particularly interested in SciFi - and as soon as I finished the book she asked me to start the next one in the series. Pretty high praise.
A large octupus-alien has a realistic threesome with two-dimensional humanoids. Dreams are made of this--well, but not my dreams. Nor nightmares. "Dawn" remains prime example of the reasoning behind my headstrong, unwavering apathy for most Sci-fi novels.
Not hunt you down alone on a ship Alien horror, more like subtly psychologically really disturbing (to me anyway) sci-fi.The basic situation is a girl, Lilith, (for mythology fans, please note the symbolism) is the lone survivor of a nuclear holocaust and is left with the responsibilities of awakening the other humans from a deep sleep, telling them they are on an alien ship, leading them to earth, and, of course, convincing them that the deal she struck with the aliens to get them back is a nasty but good idea.It's hard to get more in depth with this story without spoiling anything.
She later learns she's on a living space ship, held as a captive by the oankali, an alien race.
All were healed but left sedated for the time being; a select few will be awoken, like Lilith, once it’s time to return to Earth and resettle the planet.There’s a catch though, several in fact, which are revealed as the story unfolds.
The rest of the story is about the many challenges the humans face as they practice surviving on new Earth and the dilemmas Lilith face alone as she helps this group in their struggles.Full review of the trilogy here
Also:She had learned to keep her sanity by accepting things as she found them, adapting herself to circumstances by putting aside the old ones whose memories might overwhelm her.Butler is in a way offering her as the model of a human being who could transcend our drive to self-destruct.
But her picture of this character goes beyond "ordinary guy/gal" heroism, since arguably Lilith's effectiveness is that she is not heroic--she lacks anything like charisma or the ability to inspire and lead people; she also lacks the optimism or hopefulness or romanticizing idealism that usually drive "heroic" behavior.
Butler is an author I’ve been meaning to read forever and this was an intriguing place to start. The dilemma of Lillith, deciding the fate of humanity and resigning herself to be the betrayer, was tense and well thought out. The characters themselves were nuanced and made me seriously look at how I thought about prejudice, human-ness, and my attitude to the new and unknown. I look forward to seeing how she moves the world forward in the next book. A reflective and meditative, yet dramatic, read.
But I am so glad that I read it, and the next two books of the Xenogenesis series.
The aliens maneuver Lillith to act on their behalf, to awaken other humans aboard the spacecraft.
She realizes that if she chooses the wrong humans to awaken at first, the results may be disastrous.This is a short sci-fi novel, and it sets the stage for the following two in the Xenogenesis series.
You really need to read the three novels in order, to get a full understanding of the objectives of the aliens, and the dangerous situation they have placed Lillith in.
I can't think of any other book I've read that tells a similar story and I found this a very unique tale which was brilliantly told.
The insights into human nature are too plentiful to list, made without seeming to try.
One of the best examples of the insight into human nature comes early in the book when the protagonist meets her first alien.
It isn't always easy to read, but then I think that truth rarely is.
I found this an unusual book, not altogether enjoyable, but undeniably powerful.
Some reviewers described it as graphic, horrific, disturbing—and they were right on all accounts, but Dawn wasn’t as graphic as I’d initially feared.
That’s not to say it was an easy book to read.
The Oankali violate personal boundaries, both physical and mental, and genuinely believe their actions service humanity.
The Oankali strip Lilith of her right to her mind, her body, and a life of her choosing.
What’s most disturbing is Lilith’s eventual acceptance of the Oankali.
I’ll end by saying that Dawn ends on a very disturbing note.
I was horrified as I read the final pages.
Brilliant characters and complex future world are developed in this first of a 3 part series, Dawn is superb. Why did I stop reading Octavia Butler after my delight in Kindred and The Parable of the Sower?
Utterly fascinating, provocative, mournful, and compelling. Butler’s spare, unadorned, focused prose carries her mysterious, haunting tale forward with a bracing clarity. There was no one quite like her.
No, I don't LOVE aliens.
No, I don't LOVE aliens.
I love the idea of aliens.
We have created many images of what we think aliens might look like, and we have also created ideas of how we would react to them.
The point is I think in the end; we would react just like Lillith.
I don't think we are really ready and many people just couldn't accept ALIENS if they did really happen.
I can understand all the reactions that happens in the book and I can see all points of view and none of them are wrong.
And in the end I love Aliens.
Female SF authors are very good at making one identify with the characters and connect with their emotions at a level where it becomes as much the story as whatever new technology, space opera and whatever make up the universe of their novel.
It is always refreshing when someone dares to challenge our ideas of what is right and acceptable, and not just on some high esoteric level -- this book will get under your skin in ways you did not expect.What makes the story so strong is Octavia's description of the interaction between humans and the Oankali.
The Oankalis are a very alien alien species with Medusa-ish body hair, Cthulhu tentacles for sensory receptors, Karellen-ish face and strange names(“Kaaltediinjdahya lel Kahguyaht aj Din“) that make you wonder whether the author had accidentally bumbed her head on keyboard and decided to roll with it, or was being ridiculously imaginative.
As repulsive as this sounds, they have terrifying sensory tentacles all over their body, three sexes as a species, ability to manipulate genetic biochemistry and an entirely different perception of the outside world to which our sentience is rather handicapped in comparison.
At the moment, undecided between 3 and 4. Disturbing, and well-written. I like how Octavia Butler's work really makes you think.
Ultimate Popsugar Reading Challenge .This was a really quick read and I enjoyed it well enough . The premise and plot of the story were really fascinating . Debating whether to pick up the second book though .
