https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2727751-a-kind-of-loving
Exploring the life of a typical Yorkshire man in love with Ingrid, a woman he sees as beautiful and the perfect girl for him, this story quickly dissolves the illusion of a dream relationship as the new couple find that they really have very little in common.
The Yorkshire neighbourhood scenery adds some extra charm to the otherwise sad story, and it's a startlingly realistic look at the kind of situations that fiction rarely explores.
In amongst all of this inner turmoil and the folly of youth Barstow sneaks in some of that kitchen sink realism he became synonymous with, making good use of the Yorkshire dialect and astute observations of everyday life in a small mining town.The lifestyle of Vic is not used as some kind of statement on morals and the racy (for the time) vernacular of the narrative doesn't appear to be solely for shock value like others have aimed for in the past, his "shocking" prose serves one purpose and that is to highlight the reality of the everyday lifestyle faced by his characters.
Read this in English Lit., appropriately, when a boy at school. At the time I thought it was excellent but I remember it seemed really old fashioned. This was in the late 70s and the book was written and set in the 60s.Strange how we perceive time at different times of our lives. So, not the first book that I enjoyed, but this was the very first book that I dissected and analysed. And I guess that it was the book that started my love of literature. Thank you Mr Wood. I owe you !
Classic lad-lit from 1960Published in 1960, this book secured Barstow’s place as one of the group of authors writing about the lives of young, working-class men in the industrialised north.
20 years old when the book opens, this traces a year when his life changes through his relationship with Ingrid, a young woman from his work typing pool.What makes this book so compelling (I read it in a single sitting) is Vic’s voice: laddish and yet idealistically romantic, all his shifting emotions, his honesty and his confusion are captured brilliantly.

It tells the story of Vic a young Yorkshire lad, son of a Yorkshire miner growing to manhood and trying to make his way in the world, but not quite knowing how to get there.
He is caught up in the times when you had to make an honest woman of your girl, which is what he does when his girlfriend Ingrid becomes pregnant.On the face of it Vic is a right jack the lad who wants to taste life and sow his wild oats without any complications, but the reader is aware that Vic really is good, honest young man with dreams and aspirations that evey young lad has.
Compulsive reading. I enjoyed it immensely. I recalled the film with Alan Bates as Victor.Set in the north of England – very much so. Well drawn characters and super observation/description.
A northern love story from the 1950s. In a bygone working-class era, where the lads are cocky but don't know anything, and the ladies doll themselves up to impress the lads. Narrated brilliantly with the northern accents, this book is made for Audible. Last of the Summer Wine meets Charles Bukowski. Will be reading the next two books in the trilogy but worried about the impression I'll give when I add book three.
I liked the characters. I found I could sympathize to some degree with just about everyone's point of view. I felt the plot was rather predictable. I would be very interested in knowing what happens in the other two novels of the trilogy, spread out over 16 years. I suppose that the predictability of the plot is also the realism for which the novel receives so much praise.
Vic's wonderful way of looking at life, love and family was often sprinkled with humour and just made so much sense: 
"A wife with as much glamour as an old doormat; house like a pigsty from morning till night with kids bawling and wiping jam and bread on the wallpaper and crapping all over the place.
And old Henry's happy on it.
Although I can't say I fully agree with everything that happened, I'm definitely on Victor's side and can see he's a decent bloke trying his best.
When I read it, it reminded me so much of someone in my family that I pictured him as the main character, Vic Brown.In the 60s, and before, it was not socially acceptable to have a baby out of wedlock.
Women could not receive contraceptives unless they were married and therefore becoming pregnant was fairly common.
The main issue was that, in working class families, the couple could not afford to fund their home and had to live with their parents.This is what the story is about.
Vic Brown makes the attractive Ingrid pregnant, they get married and move in with her parents.
Deeply rooted in its Yorkshire setting, it is very much concerned with the real people, with their everyday problems, hopes and experiences.The protagonist, Victor, is a young, bright working class son-of-a-miner, just discovering females, and focussing on one young woman in particular.The first half is essentially about Victor falling in love, and while the evocation of these feelings is very well done, this section does wear a little eventually.
But it is necessary to set up the later sections where things get more complicated for Vic, and the book regained my interest.It's a very good book - compellingly realistic, with real-world, relatable concerns and well depicted characters.
A part of me wants to really love this book - it's heartfelt, poignant and achingly real - but someh
I decided that, for September, I'm going to read (at least) one book for each letter of the alphabet, by author surname.
So A Kind of Loving is 'B' (I'm not doing it in order).
Mum read it a while ago and gave it to me.
He renders the place well, though most of the focus is on the relationship at the story's centre.Mostly, it's about a guy -- the narrator -- who likes a girl, thinks he loves her, and though it turns out that he doesn't, he still 'has' to do the decent thing and marry her.
Second time reading - I've managed to get hold of the other two books so going to read in sequence.A short while ago I read 'Look Back in Anger' - and that book made me think of this.
They were written only years apart, and have a very similar dynamic in terms of the relationship between their main characters - yet in terms of their execution I thought this novel made that play seem very heavy-handed.
It manages to evoke so much with ostensibly little and paints the portrait of a man who is, though by no means perfect, is caught between the person he wants to be and the person he is expected to be.
Times have changed so much since this book was written.
All I could think while reading it was that a boy getting a girlfriend pregnant just doesn't seem enough on its own as subject matter.
Nowadays I think this barely works as a time capsule, a historic document.By the end my feeling was this book is just too flimsy.
Only the 'voice' character Vic has any sort of journey, and it's not a very long, involved or dare I say interesting one.
Many of the main characters are cliches and others, including an avuncular record shop owner and a brainy younger brother, serve no obvious purpose at all.
A story set in a seemingly simpler time can really highlight how many of the same emotions have always gone on behind the scenes.
Vic shares his thoughts with the reader in a very straight-forward manner.
At the same time, many of those feelings are not presented to the outside world,therefore Vic comes across as a kind of villain to some of the other characters in the book.
The reader knows that what is really happening is more complicated than this and therefore the complications that are compounded onto poor Vic by society's expectations become even more apparent.
This deserves a pretty lengthy review, being so great and all, but I'm typing this on my pad, which I hate, so...
And it's hard to say much about it without spoiling everyone.
In short, this is a brilliant book about the lack of love.
As far as love stories go, it's very refreshing.
It's a quick read, partly predictable, but not all the way.
Towards the end I really could not stop reading.
Don't let the beginning or perhaps first 20% fool you - this is NO cute romance.
Beware of pretty people who don't read books.
A Kind of Loving offers a no-frills snapshot into a young working class man's life in the middle part of the 20th century.
Vic Brown tells us his tale and he ensures the reader feels his joy, pain, lust and hatred as it all spills out across the pages.
He's just a normal bloke letting us have a year of his life with all its warts and Stan Barstow nails it perfectly.
The only negative I can think of is that by the time I was finished most of the pages had fallen out...
Powerfully honest. The protagonist is not entirely likeable, there is sexism in his attitude and by our standards, some racism too but then the anti-hero is meant to be flawed. I doubt there is a more no-holds-barred account of what it must've been like to be a young, Northern, working-class man - with intellectual and sexual interests -in the late 50s. You want to hear Ingrid's version of events too but salute Vic for his candour. This kind of novel comes about as close to living inside someone else's head as it comes.
I read a bowdlerised version of this at school and then the real thing at 16, with a reread at 23. It strikes me now as rather sexist and the frequent references to culture with a capital C get on my nerves. It's probably still one of the most realistic descriptions I've read of lust without love though, which ain't half bad for a kitchen sink yarn.
http://booklikes.com/blog
I can empathise about having no home! A slice of gritty northern life, well not really, but enjoyable all the same.
It's when she returns and Vic somewhat churlishly revives their relationship, the emotions cooling whilst the physical benefits intensify, that Vic's selfishness starts to unravel.Vic and Ingrid share a rather passive outlook on life, very much observers rather than doers – Barstow’s own background forming the base for Vic’s upbringing and experience, if not his character.
Barstow’s skill is to assemble layers of social comedy and emotion on a very simple tale – and this comes up fresh as paint rereading the book after so many years.Well, we later find out that a kind of loving isn’t enough for Vic – and in the final part of the trilogy we have a brief glimpse of Ingrid in the 1970’s, remarried with a daughter and happy ….
Oh it's a great life and we've only another thirty or forty years of it to come"By sally tarbox on 31 December 2017Format: Kindle EditionFirst published in 1960, this is a tale of a distant era; Yorkshire miner's son Vic Brown is going places, with a job as a draughtsman, a supportive family and enough money to enjoy himself.
As a narrator, he really comes alive with his frank Yorkshire dialogue.Last read when I was in my teens - now 40 years later, it's still a great read.
First book of the 'Vic Brown' trilogy. Vic goes through an awful awakening to adulthood when he gets his girl in trouble and has to face his responsibilities. Told in racy vernacular, I couldn't help warming to the main character. Looking forward to reading the second and third volumes of the trilogy.
I found this book quite hard work, but definitely worth it. I bought it after having read an interview with the author about his writing career. I'd be quite interested to watch the film now.
Great piece of working class literature in the style of Alan Sillitoe. A little predictable at times, but warm, honest and kind towards very human protagonists.
Junger Mann verknallt sich, sie liebt ihn, er sie dann doch nicht, kann aber die Finger nicht von ihr lassen. Sie wird schwanger, sie müssen heiraten. Schwiegermutter ist ein Drache. Eigentlich gar nicht mein Stil, aber irgendwie sympathisch. Unzählige Redewendungen
I did think I'd like it somewhat being interested in that period in England which immediately precedes my existence; my parents' youthful age, and that which brought about little me.In literary terms, it's exemplary kitchen sink realism.
Vic Brown's is an everyman's coming of age story, that of an ordinary twenty year old facing majority at the start of the 60s.
And the shame of any girl getting pregnant before marriage was grave and a lad not doing the right thing by her was inconceivable.Stan Barstow was 32 at the time of its writing this, his first published novel, and old enough to stand back and understand, but not too old to forget what youth was like.
