https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/355.Job
Gone Where the Woodbine TwinethQuantum theory has some strange implications, one of which is the existence of parallel universes.* If physical reality does bifurcate at every quantum event, creating an infinite number of alternative realities, what happens to consciousness?
This is the god of changing rules; just when you think you know the way the world works from a moral perspective, Loki pulls the rug out.
The story of Job in the Old Testament does, after all, describe a Loki-like Yahweh who thinks it a fine thing to move the moral goal posts as well as physical laws of his creation on a whim...
This was my last favorite Heinlein novel, for many rereads. I've pretty much stopped rereading RAH -- but I might give this one another reread sometime. Enough years have passed, and it's a clever & unusual setup. Heinlein's homage to James Branch Cabell, one of his influences and favorite writers.If you've never read it, you should. The opening pages are a classic of sinking the hook early and keeping you reading. Heinlein was amazingly good at that.
I tried, I really did. But I just can’t anymore. This story was not wholly without merit, but for the most part it is boring, boring, boring. At least the main female character has agency, but it still reads like a 14 year old boy’s fantasy of the ideal “independent” woman, with the antagonist being a shrill, angry, disrespectful harpy. I thought the story would pick up when he finally got to heaven and hell, but nope. DNF at 89%.Audiobook, borrowed via Overdrive from my public library. Stilted reading by Paul Michael Garcia.
Leave it to Heinlein to make blasphemy lame.
That said, it is quite an interesting story, with a double share of twists and turns, and throughout it all you're rather unsure exactly where Heinlein is going.The more religious minded might be rather offended at Heinlein's theological inversion of good and bad.
I think this would be a tragedy, because the wide range of religions interwoven here it seems quite obvious this is not his version of the way things might be, but just a very creative exploration of "what if...?" What if you were just an unlucky pawn in a game between two really powerful players?
Where would that put you?Heinlein has never been lacking the creativity department, and in places I think he pretty much let it run wild in this book.
I really tried to like this book, but I just didn't get it. The characters were flat and the scenarios they found themselves in seemed so episodic and inconsequential that, by about halfway through the book, I grew bored and apathetic. It was recommended to me by someone whose taste I admire, but the book wasn't for me.
That is, until, for some ridiculous reason, the ship hits an iceberg, in the middle of the Southern seas at that, and he ends up in another universe...again, but this time, with Margrethe at his side.And from there, Alex and Margrethe experience one world change after another, until they grow faster and faster in frequency.
As they go to a Higher Power, higher even than God, Alex struggle to make sense of it all, and to put into context what is really important to him, his faith...or Margrethe.-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------The title of this book is apt, and ironic.
The key to understanding this book lies in the subtitle, "A Comedy of Justice." It exactly mirrors the subtitle of James Branch Cabell's breakthrough best seller, "Jurgen." And the plot is similar.
If that is the case, he wouldn't have cared much what we think.That being said, "Jurgen" is a far, far better book than "Job: A Comedy of Justice." Cabellian irony fit his mythic cosmos-building and droll story constructs.
The haunting, I think, is due entirely to the strange and unlikely presence of the shade of James Branch Cabell.
This book is like distilled Heinlein.
Women who are generally intelligent sex objects and the men who love them, slightly awkward but nonetheless charming dialogue, and a healthy smattering of really thought provoking lines.Not a spoiler: "On reflection I realized that I was in exactly the same predicament as every other human being alive.
We don't know who we are, or where we came from, or why we are here.
Honest priests and preachers are denied the comforts of religion; instead they must live with the austere rewards of philosophy."This is why I love Heinlein.
I have to admit, though, this book feels kind of dated.
So. This book.It was probably one of the greatest adventures i've read on a long long while.
Following Alexander "Graham" "alec" Gergermester through all the tribulations, dimentional jumping and pure anarchy of reality he was placed, how he learns to become more than a simple follower of the "word of god" how he tries to save everyone he meets to His grace, even lucifer himself, though he didnt knew at the moment, how he is faced with reality, how he learns to respect his "wife", the women who chooses to be with him, but also chooses to be herself, much to his raising conflict, how she respects him but still has her own beliefs and none of his prude attitudes toward sex or "modesty", well...
Its a really fun set of universes, and its a really fun book

It was written near the end of Heinlein's career and it feels a little as if it were done by rote.
There are several recycled bits from earlier works, including the obligatory reference to consensual parent/child sex.
The dialogue is a bit stiff- RAH was very stingy with his contractions, and I think that makes for awkward sounding conversations.The Farnsworth family were far and away my favorite characters.
In the end, though, I couldn't get past my distaste for Alex.
This is not the first time I've read this book, not even the second.
Each time I read it, I get something else out of it.
This time, I found myself looking it as both author and reader.
As an author, I can see areas that could have been cut to make a smoother introduction.
The book continues on with a few more extraneous areas, familiar concepts, and surprise twists, until the end where it seems almost as if Heinlein himself had become fatigued with the plot.
Here I was reminded of Heinlein's literary genius.
Nobody spins a yarn like Heinlein.
As I recall this occurs just as Job plummets pass on his way to Arizona but the pink monkey is pissed at his buddy who is laughing at him and they forget to catch him in the net.Generally speaking I always liked Mr. Heinlein's earlier works but like any literary study you should read them all to get a picture of the guy over the course of his life.
Main character Alec is a preacher/fundraiser for a fundamentalist church called the Churches United for Decency (C.U.D.).
Any money he accumulates toward traveling home to Kansas is rendered unusable by the frequent changes to another reality.
Oh, poor Job/Alec.
Will he ever get home?
The answer is not before he is Raptured, yes Raptured to a Heaven where angels lord it over the common peons/humans.
Oh well, I could go on, but I just want to say that I thought the best part came from the time he is Raptured thru his tour of heaven -- and you have to read about 3/4 of the book to get there.

This book is awful.
I never liked Heinlein, but I found this on Junk Day and decided to give it a try.
My god, does it suck.
The prose is around a third-grade level and the plot couldn't be any less interesting.
The thing that totally ruined it for me was that, if he's supposed to be Job, why is he given the girl of his dreams to accompany him on his interdimensional jaunts?
I didn't even finish this shitheap, and I blame it for my lapse in reading over the past few weeks.
It was my nightstand book, and instead of read it, I opted for insomnia.
A satirical examination of religion in general, and Christianity in specific, through the eyes of a Christian political activist who gets pulled out and thrown into different realities and parallel universes.Absolutely witty and hilarious.Makes you ponder and laugh out loud at the same time.Note: this book was recommended by the video games spiritual father and legend Nolan Bushnell. I met him in a conference and we hit it off. Meeting him again in a month or so and can't wait to discuss the book with him.
wow! almost finished , 25 pages to go. how did I never hear if this book before?
Heinlein decided not to pursue a completely serious adaptation of the book and instead choose to merely adopt the basic premise - what would happen if the world constantly shifted in subtle ways, and what would that do to a person?
I haven't had this much fun reading a book in a very long time, and for that it deserves my recognition.
But, the plain fact of it is that I remember very little of what happened, and I have no strong desire to re-read or revisit the book, or to find out more about the characters.
Heinlen obviously has a clear view of women; he favors women and desires his women to have strong sex appeal, be intelligent, be caring, be independent and strong, have patience, and not have a jealous bone in their bodies and still bow down to the male dominant figure of his books.
Surprisingly, I inferred a possible racially prejudiced viewpoint in this book by his references to the "crooked" Mexicans and "blackamoors" serving as subservient roles in the kitchen.
Alexander/Alec travels to Heaven, Hell, and back literally for the woman he loves, Margrathe.
Heinlen creatively portrays heaven as a bureaucratic caste system of angels, saints and "creatures" which I found refreshing/unique/hilarious.
Might I add that Heinlen's view of Hell has BEER and alcohol!!
Even though I did not know where the story was going, I found myself fully enthralled the entire time.I personally loved this book, but I feel many will not.
The biggest issue is this is a very religious book.
For anyone who is willing to take the Bible and challenge the popular view of the stories and characters within will do fine with this book.
But, if you are someone who is easily offended when people challenge your religious beliefs, then this book is not for you!
When I was seventeen I told my boss I would read this book, that had been so influential to his young catholic school life.
Whether I had finally read it.
(And both copies likely find it queer, I read it on my Kindle instead of through either of them.)I am not sure I liked this novel.
But it was quite compelling, and I was involved with the point of the novel by about the one-third mark.
I'm not sure I'd rec it to others, but I'm certain I would still love to talk about it with people.
Job is the riveting tale of dimensional travel and exciting circumstance to test the limit of your imagination and perception of our world.
Knowing that the book is set in a non-standard universe from the very beginning helps in clearing up your thoughts for the thought provoking look at a human’s spirituality.
The book itself is beautifully written, every page being exciting as well as moving the plot along.Job could be considered one of the best novels from Heinlein for its look at the cosmos and organization of the divine.
But other than that, this novel is worth reading for anybody who can question their own divine entities.
This may be one of my favorite Heinlein novels.
It gets five stars on its own from me but also gets the requisite sentimental rating bonus.
I had taken a bus cross-country, was listening to a tape of Queen's Innuendo on repeat, and was reading Dune at the time.
I was fifteen years old and traveling alone for the first time; it's a week or so that is particularly vivid for me.At any rate, Job is entertaining as a sci-fi novel and also does a fun job (no pun intended) of bringing out the uncomfortable features of god and satan's personae in the eponymous old testament book.
After consuming several Spider Robinson books, I felt it was necessary to explore some of Heinlein's work finally. I decided upon Job: a comedy of Justice because it was recommended by a friend. I loved it. I can totaly see where Spider Robinson has been influenced greatly by this writer.I will be going into some more of his work soon.
Job is a mix of the flavor of early Heinlein with a gritty hero and his girl slugging it out against a hostile world for about the first 17 chapters. From there, we learn that an essentially Christian view of the world is correct and we witness apocalypse and see heaven and hell... Heinlein style. His view of heaven with arrogant angels running a massive bureaucracy is a page-turning delight.
I did not really care about Alex or Margrethe as characters in this story; in fact, I did not really care about any of the characters.This was my third reading of the book.
I also appreciated how ‘clean’ this novel was in how Alex’s and Margrethe’s relationship was presented; Heinlein did not seem to feel the need to pour in his usual filth-ladened fantasies about pederasty, rape, adultery, promiscuity, incest, bigamy, polygamy, fornication, or whatever other act of perverted sex he could devise.
I think Heinlein was going for some humor while describing Alex’s time in Heaven, but it fell short of what I think he may have intended.
Heinlein is undoubtedly the writer most responsible for forming many of my views and my general outlook on life.
I remember the thrill of finding someone else who'd read Heinlein and shared the enthusiasm and hopefulness for the human race his writing engendered.
And I remember buying this book as a young college student, seeing it on my bookshelf for many years, knowing the general premise of the story and even the characters' names, but for the life of me I could not remember reading the book.A recent discovery of a similarly-themed book by another writer (the first of many, I hope) brought back those memories, but when I went to find the book to re-read it, I could not.
I really enjoyed the biblical aspects and the main character's journey.
It's similar to the concept in Ground Hog Day except every time this character goes to sleep, his reality changes.
It doesn't work thus he becomes like Job. He loses everything but somehow he keeps his faith.
He meets a woman he comes to love but he's married so that's a problem.
The woman he meets early on is pretty much a pagan so that's a problem too.
The fantasy aspect was subtle in that each world shift was mostly historical timeline, world leaders, and religious beliefs.
