https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32049.Lady_Chatterley_s_Lover
She bought me a copy at the book store in the mall, and that's where I met one of my favourite words of all time -- cunt.
Three lashes to the palm of the hand.I didn't use "cunt" in public or private for a long time after that, but my punishment couldn't diminish my love for the word.
The book gets points for having some very intellectual discussions of class and the differences between men and women, and Lawrence's characters talk about sex with more honesty than any other book I've ever read, but that's about all it has going for it.
Mellors started to grow on me towards the end, when he discovered sarcasm, but Lady Chatterley (aka Connie) was one of the most boring protagonists ever.
At one point in the book, when Connie and Mellors have just finished having hot sex and are in bed together, he starts a rant about the class system.
"Afternoon, m'lady - do ye fancy a quick one over yon five barred gate?""Oh you earthy gamekeepers, well I don't know...
oh alright...
but only if you mention my private parts in a rough yet tender manner and clasp them enthusiastically betwixt your craggy extremities."Lord Chatterley, from a mullioned window: "Grr, if I wasn't just a symbol of the impotent yet deadening power of the English aristocracy I'd whip that bounder to within an inch of an orgasm."40 years later :Barrister in full periwig : "Is this a book you would want your wife or your servant to read?"Jury : "Well, it's not one of his best, that's for sure, but it isn't bad, crudely propagandistic but it does trenchantly place its finger on a particular moment in the shift of class consciousness in Britain."Judge : "Cut the crap, guilty or not guilty?"Jury : "Guilty pleasure!"
Ο Κλίφορντ Τσάτερλι ειναι ένας σύζυγος που ανήκει στην άρχουσα πνευματική τάξη της εποχής και φυσικά έχει μοναδική επιδίωξη το κέρδος την αυτοπροβολή και την πάταξη της κατώτερης ράτσας - όπως συνηθίζει να αποκαλεί τους εργάτες του και γενικότερα την μάζα των φτωχών και αγραμμάτων.
Ειναι ένας άντρας ανίκανος σεξουαλικά αλλά περισσότερο ανίκανος για ψυχική επαφή και ενσυναίσθηση.
Αυτό που αξίζει να σημειωθεί ειναι η ομοιότητα των οικονομικών - κοινωνικών και πολιτικών καταστάσεων με την εποχή μας.
Η πιο ειρωνική όμως ομοιότητα του τότε με την εποχή μας ειναι φυσικά τα προβλήματα στις σχέσεις μεταξύ των ανθρωπων και κυρίως των ζευγαριών.
Like Melville's treatise on whales in the midst of his adventure novel, Lawrence had an agenda in writing Lady Chatterley's Lover and he often takes the reader out of the main story in order to linger upon his pet project.
Occasionally the technique works for him.
Well, allow me to Lawrence-ify it: The technique is bullshit in the most bullshitty sense, by which I mean, it is bullshit.
As you see, it looks like I've explained myself, yet I've said nothing.
And what does hot air sound like?
And what does hot air sound like?
It sounds like
Secondly, the book is from the perspective of a woman, a challenge for any male author, and thirdly (and possibly most famously), the book makes liberal use of "fuck" and "cunt." It's not just that the book is about sexual awakening, it's really about how frank the book's two central characters are about their sexual experiences.
As for the sex bits, I laughed several times at the sheer effort Lawrence goes through to try to describe what a female orgasm might feel like.
Even where the language is stilted or embarassing, I could see what Lawrence was trying at: a totally frank, unashamed look at sex.
3.5 Stars Well.........I can certainly see why LADY CHATTERLEY'S LOVER was banned soon after publication back in 1928. So okay, you already know or anticipate that this particular classic is going to contain vulgarity and erotic situations, but for the life of me, I never thought it would be a combination of tedium and humor.The story is rather unremarkable in itself, and pretty much given away in the book summary, so no spoiler here......Aristocratic (and highly superior in his own mind) upperc
So okay, you already know or anticipate that this particular classic is going to contain vulgarity and erotic situations, but for the life of me, I never thought it would be a combination of tedium and humor.The story is rather unremarkable in itself, and pretty much given away in the book summary, so no spoiler here......Aristocratic (and highly superior in his own mind) upperclass man marries well-to-do spoiled and free-spirited daddies girl.
I said "Oh come on Dad, I'm thirty-three" I thought it was just going to be a book with countless sex scenes and not much else.
We fucked a flame into being"I just love that quote: "We fucked a flame into being" It's just so raw and honest, and that is what I love and appreciate about Lawrence's writing style.
The two main characters, Lady Chatterley and Mellors, are very frank about their sexual experiences, and I think this is what makes the book so desirable.
It's natural, beautiful and we all have needs and desires, and this book shows us just that in the most erotic and incredible way possible.
I bought this book in high school because it was cheap and I thought that because I was going to be a big, bad Enlglish major in college, I should probably expand my literary repertoire.
I also thought it might be a little racy, given the title, which piqued my interest.
Fast forward seven and a half years and I am now a big, bad graduate of American Studies (Chaucer killed me on the spot, and I changed majors immediately), and I had yet to read this book.
But today, I am sure even a nun wouldn't be overly shocked by it's naughty bits.Lady Chatterley (Constance, Connie) is the bored wife of Sir Clifford, a war cripple who returns to his family estate, amid the decay and unemployment of the industrial towns in middle England.He takes to books as a way to withdraw, and applies himself feverishly to an attempt to retrieve his coal mines by the application of different methods.
In addition to Clifford's physical limitations, his emotional neglect of Constance forces distance between the couple.
عاشق لیدی چترلی که یک اثر کلاسیک است، خیلی زود به دلیل محتوای داستان که بیان روابط جسمی میان مردی از طبقه کارگر و زنی از طبقات بالا و مرفه است، توصیف صریح و بی‌پردهٔ صحنه‌ های جنسی و استفاده از واژگان قبیح و مبتذل به شهرتی جنجال‌ برانگیز رسید.
عاشق لیدی چترلی که در سه نسخهٔ متفاوت چاپ شده‌ است، آخرین و مشهورترین رمان لارنس است.
I excused it as Lost Gen disillusionment, a depiction of people afraid to feel after the masses' passion overflowed in the horror that was WWI.
I was even sort of rooting for you against the cold, cold people who can't let go enough to feel something.
The one thing I did like was the way you could conjure up ecstatic joy in earthiness.
I can't even bring myself to discuss that last scene in the book, but if you've read it you know what our payoff was.
Really?The obscenity trials are the best thing that ever happened to this book.
I don't think the book has stood the test of time for the right reasons and I cant see much of a discussion in this Novel.
This is only my opinion and time will tell how the group rates the book.A boring and dull read and didn't compare with any of the other classics I have read previously.
_Lady Chatterley's Lover_There are no words to describe how much i love this book.
I mean, i really, really, really do love this book, even if it became vulgar and indelicate at some point, even when i thought it was too much.
And he was dead for so many years and i wish i lived in his era or he lived in mine but then i thought he was the way he was bcz he lived at that era.
He is the exception.This is a masterpiece, a great book, an amazing, truly emotional, truly raw, truly authentic love story.
You’ve outdone yourself.(Here’s to my fourth Lawrence read, and counting…)This is not your read if you cringe when faced with numerous sexual scenes that depict various sex positions, language that doesn’t shy away from using the four letter words that start with c and f, and insane sexual stream of thought.
We’ve got to live, no matter how many skies have fallen.One thing is certain when reading this novel, the first half, with its honest, provocative ideas, refined story setup and character portraits, is much different than the second half, with its overblown and somewhat repetitive sexual scenes, blunt, abrupt language, misunderstanding of the female orgasmic context, and lack of plot development.
Very explicit for it's time. One of Lawrence's 3 love novels, as I call them; Sons and Lovers, Women in Love, and Lady Chatterley's Lover.
It is written by a man with a diseased mind and a soul so black that he would obscure even the darkness of hell!"Utah’s Reed Smoot was speaking to the 1930 Senate.
To demonstrate just how filthy they were, he’d threatened to read from Lawrence’s Lady Chatterley’s Lover, Honore de Balzac's Droll Tales, the poetry of Robert Burns, the Kama Sutra… The place was packed.
As it turns out, this book isn’t about sex.
Lawrence originally titled it Tenderness and that’s what Lady Chatterley’s lover, Mellors, struggles with.
Okay, I can see why Senator Smoot might not want this lying out where his kids could find it.
Lawrence has in recent times fallen out of fashion in the literary world, which is a shame because despite his reputation (often well-deserved) as a misogynist, the themes he explores in this novel go well beyond its sexual reputation.
The conversations between the upper class friends proves witty, but ultimately dry, lifeless, as is shown by Tommy Dukes' reasoning as to why he is asexual.
Moreso, the novel is about class restrictions, about a dying breed of aristocratic dinosaurs; it's about the call of money and the lifelessness that becoming a slave to the wage creates.
And if you feel the need to write about anal, try not to justify it saying you're ridding your lady of "shame, which is fear: the deep organic shame, the old, old physical fear which crouches in the bodily roots of us, and can only be chased away by the sensual fire, at last it was roused up and routed by the phallic hunt of the man.” In my (admittedly limited) experience, chicks don't go for that ole "phallic hunt" line.In the end (no pun intended), I think this book is most interesting to read alongside the history of 1920s’ and 30s' sexology.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، این اثر را میتوان به اصطلاح سکسی ترین کتابِ <لارنس> دانست... اثری که لارنس در آن با یاریِ زبانِ جنسی و توصیفاتِ سکسی، منظور و پیامش را به خوانندگانِ کتابش میرساند و برخی از رفتارِ عناصر ِ اصلیِ داستانش را به نظر میرسد از شخصیتِ خود و همچنین همسرش <فریدا> وام گرفته باشد-------------------------------------------داستان در موردِ زنی به نامِ <لیدی چتِرلی> یا <کانی> میباشد.... شوهرِ لیدی چترلی یا همان کانی، به اصطلاح جانبازِ جنگی است و <کیفورد> نام دارد،
کانی با برقرار کردنِ رابطهٔ جنسی با ملورس، بچه دار میشود و میتواند احساسِ مادر شدن را تجربه کند‎در زیر بخشی از جملاتِ این کتاب را برایتان مینویسم***********************‎کانی در آن شبِ کوتاهِ تابستان، چیزهایِ زیادی آموخت..
ولی سرانجام آن خودِ شرم بود که از میان رفت و مُرد...
با رابطه با آن مرد (ملورس)، شرم و ترس از وجودش برخاسته و تار و مار شده بود و کانی توانست واردِ اعماقِ جنگلِ درونِ خویش شود...
حال احساس میکرد که بر سنگِ بسترِ طبیعتِ خویش ایستاده است و تمام وجودش از شرم خالی شده بود...
passion and the battle of the sexes, but I cannot relate to the characters and their plight so I don’t have a feel for the nuances.For me, Lady Chatterley's Lover is readable but a little bit of a chore to get through.
The whole audiobook in one ZIP file can be downloaded here.• I am not really into Lady Chatterley's Lover but I am interested to read more from  D.H. Lawrence, he does write very nice prose.
D.H. Lawrence is a writer I'm growing more fond of.
Connie Chatterley, in my opinion, was a rather insipid character.
She marries Clifford Chatterley, who gets injured in the war and comes back paralyzed.
Consequently, she begins an affair with the gameskeeper, Oliver Mellors and discovers who she is as a woman.Lawrence definitely pushed the boundaries for 1920s standards.I did sympathize with Connie's feelings of restlessness, aggravated by the fact that her invalid husband was so insensitive and selfish.
"Connie was aware, however, of a growing restlessness.
But in the wake of that first paragraph, I do need to think about the novel as a complete novel...and in this way, I feel like the first paragraph is an obstacle, because this is a novel about ennui, sexual desire, married life...and at times, also about class antagonisms and the relentlessness of progress.
There was no continuity, only the endless stream of streaming data that refused to flow in any kind of logic the (analog) world had known." Is that how D.H. Lawrence would have written about our times.
I really tried to read this classic, but when Lady Chatterly's lover appeared and fit the description of Groundskeeper Willie from the Simpsons, I just couldn't do it. I mean, D.H. Lawerence has written in Willie's accent phonetically, and Lady Chatterly was having an affair with a cartoon! I just couldn't read anymore from that moment on...
Really, for todays' standards, there is nothing shocking in this one but I can see how for its time this novel must have been shocking....and it must have seem like something else!From my personal perspective, Lady Chatterley's Lover was a very good read, the plot itself was interesting enough to read, enough for me to ignore some of the books faults.
I'm just not sure how much genuine profoudness there is this work...but isn't book that makes us think (even if we're doubting it with our thoughts) already proven itself capable of great depth?What did I like most about this novel?
I loved this. Absolutely adored the writing, the war references, character development and even the sex. I probably put off reading this for years as I thought it was the sort of book to be embarrassed reading. The literary equivalent of 50 shades of Grey. I'm not about to try that, but I will definitely be reading more D. H. Lawrence. 5 stars and I don't hand those out lightly.
This may have made for a somewhat interesting story (whether you sympathized with her or not) had Lady Chatterley and her husband had a loving friendship or an otherwise soulful or intellectual connection of some kind.
While I understand Lawrence was trying to argue that both mind and body must be equally satisfied, particularly in a society Lawrence felt was growing more industrialized and thus emotionally and physically stilted (as was Lady Chatterley's husband), I don't think he did so in the most effective or impressive of ways.I think I had been hoping to read a book about the complexities of what truly defines intimacy, and how a sudden illness or disability can alter a relationship.
My preconception of this book was that it was just a story about a posh lady who wanted a bit of rumpy pumpy with the gamekeeper.
I had never particularly felt inclined to read it, even though I have read other books by D H Lawrence and loved them, but this fitted a task for a couple of reading challenges I'm participating in, so I thought I'd give it a shot.
It *is* a book about a posh lady having sexy times with the gamekeeper but it is so much more than that.
People born into the upper classes resented these kinds of upstarts and this is explored quite a bit in Lady Chatterley's Lover.
Acabo de ler "O Amante de Lady Chatterley "do escritor D.H.Lawrence (1885-1935).A estória parece bem simples: Clifford Chatterley retorna da primeira guerra mundial paralisado da cintura para baixo.Ele , um esnobe da classe alta, muito rico dono de minas de carvão, deixa Lady Chatterley atordoada ao sugerir que ela tenha um filho de outro homem, um herdeiro para sua fortuna, já que ele ,devido à sua parasilia, não teria como dar a ela um filho.Lady Chatterley ,Connie ,seu nome de solteira, se apaixona por Mellors, empregado de Clifford, onde ela descobre o verdadeiro prazer sexual , o sexo real, até então reprimido nela pois Clifford ,era de um egoísmo sem igual.Nesse relacionamento extraconjugal ela acaba engravidando.Ao ficar sabendo Clifford fica arrasado , não pela traição propriamente dita, mas por ela se relacionar com um trabalhador de uma classe inferior, para Clifford houve uma traição de classes.
Connie, mettendosi contro il patetico Clifford e la bigotta sorella (che si finge una moderna sovversiva, ma è la perfetta incarnazione della provinciale borghese), decide di essere un po' egoista e di mettere davanti a tutto i suoi sentimenti.
Decide di lasciare la sua vita agiata per essere felice.
Tutti noi dovremmo prendere esempio da Connie che con il suo egoismo e il suo coraggio si è guadagnata un po' di felicità, e in fin dei conti essere felici è l'unica cosa che conta veramente.
