https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99461.Split_Infinity
honestly.The premise is that there's a world of advanced science, Photon, wherein dwells our hero, Stile.
Oh, and to allow Stile to get turned on by women in clothes, because it's so weird and erotic to him.
Anyway, Stile the Naked discovers that there's a parallel world to his called Phaze, where there is no science, only magic, and his counterpart there has been murdered.
No, the stupid thing is the plot of this book.So, Stile is a serf on Photon, but on Phaze he's a wizard, and not just any wizard: he's an adept.
It's like Stile's thing, horse poop.
This is one of those books that I have read a hundred times (quite possibly literally) and cannot be objective about.
There are some key worldbuilding elements that don't really work that I never would have noticed as a kid - so it's basically a slave society, where the slaves are all totally naked and powerless except they can leave the planet at any time.
And get to play games in their free time?)Also, Anthony has some really...
Every single woman that Stile encounters, encountered in the past, or might encounter in the future finds him inexplicably irresistible, whether or not they are his type, species, or whatever.
This book reminded me of a geeky prepubescent male's fantasy dream.
I normally read books from both genres, so I thought I would really enjoy it.
The main character jumps jarringly between the two worlds throughout the novel.
He rides her all over Phaze during the day in her unicorn form and all night in her female form.
For example, I liked when the hero first attempted to ride the unicorn.
The whole passage, however, was ruined for me, when I read later on in the book that she had the ability to shape shift into a firefly and instead let him tame her.
He’s self-confident (of course) and self-assured (obviously), and the few times that he’s not the best at what he does, he’s at least second-best (clearly), so it’s somewhat understandable, but he lacks empathy toward anyone else who doesn’t meet his own standards (always).So, I re-read the series, and plan to finish off the Battle Circle series (I already picked up the rest of the books in the series), but I think after these, I’ll be done with Piers Anthony for good.
The main character Stile is so gifted in every possible facet ranging from athletics to music to mental prowess that it feels utterly unbelievable, given his station as a serf.
Very nice.After Stile performed his first spell, he swore an oath never to use magic anymore because he was so powerful that his spells could affect the otherwise spell-immune unicorn.
I know it's MAGIC, Mr. Anthony, but when we read about a unicorn we expect it to be only capable of physical tricks that horses can do.
I LOVED it as a teenager - it has a really cool game, two neat alternate worlds (and both are interesting), unicorns, and magic!
What I didn't notice at that time was that it had boobies!
Lots and lots of bouncing boobies!
Anyway- pretty immature relationships, and kind of um...racial (?) in that the main character, (view spoiler)[while he can and does have frequent sex with a robot and a unicorn girl, who both love him and are totally faithful to him....cannot really love them because they aren't "real" women.
(hide spoiler)].
This was another novel concept by Anthony. The first book or two were great, but he took the series further than I wanted. This one is definitely re-readable, the 2d & 3d are OK, but after that I couldn't get into them any more. The world is in the far future, but one man finds he can slip from his ultra modern world into a nearby fantasy world since the death of his counterpart in the other dimension. He winds up dealing with all the problems two people have all by himself. Funny, fast read. Very engaging.
But he knows how to win in the Games, and that might make all the difference when he meets a woman and his world starts falling apart.
The characters started out great too - a woman who was surprisingly competitive, Stiles who was secretly brilliant.
So when Stiles rejected the counteroffer to keep his position as jockey, why couldn't any of the slaves do that before?
It basically defeated the whole premise of the story.And then suddenly, how in the freaking blazes did the book transform from a story about Games into a weird story about Stiles appearing in a new, magical world where there are shape-shifters?
Check.
Check.
Yup, this must be a Piers Anthony novel.
After all, he is the same author to have written a book named "The Color of Her Panties".
Well placed and well written sex scenes can certainly enhance the quality of a book.
However, Piers Anthony seems to overdo it and make it ridiculous.
Now that being said, this is an entertaining book.
He is on a grand adventure where he trying to solve his problems in both places.
While certainly no masterpiece, it was good enough that I am willing to check the next book in the series out.
I bought this trilogy while I was at University (a fabulous second hand bookshop where you could return other books to count towards new purchases) and I remembered enjoying them at the time.
Both a science-fiction universe and a fantasy universe in the same book.
The trilogy follows the main character of Stile as he discovers the fantasy world and his attempts to manage responsibilities in both worlds.Not particularly challenging or complex in style, but the ideas are all intriguing and well presented, and the pace remains high and the story is fun and engaging.
I can see why men love this book.
After finishing this today, that was my first thought.
I was introduced to this book by a friend of mine.
He knows I never read sci-fi or fantasy books.
Since he recommended it, I thought I would try it .
I must say, the thought of reading this book did not appeal to me at all.
I also enjoyed the separation of fantasy and science fiction.
I think that factor made this an enjoyable read for me.
I can see why Piers Anthony has made a name for himself in the sci-fi/fantasy world.
Costuming sex as freely given doesn’t excuse his attitude.“You often don’t have to fight, if you just look as if you’d like to.”The extended sections of game play slow to the story.
The whole game matrix concept rings false.
An artificial construct, like quidditch, to pump up the protagonist.“You are a rational creature, beneath your superficial programming; under my programming I am an irrational animal.”Quibbles: Published in 1980, totally misses the coming revolution in microelectronics and communications, which renders the story a quaint artifact of a former age.
“Two days off his feet” after running a marathon?
Daily challenge games?
After marathons?
Soon after escaping assassination on the highly technical, science-oriented planet of Proton, Stile finds himself in a world of sorcery and magic where another power seeks his destruction.Split Infinity is the first in the Apprentice Adept series by Piers Anthony.
Unlike most genre books this one takes place in both sci-fi and fantasy worlds.
Proton is the sci-fi half and Phaze is the fantasy half.
Stile is a master Gamesman, expert at nearly every Game, the top ranked jockey on the planet and has quite a way with the ladies, human and inhuman alike.
I really love the author, especially his Xanth series which I had started just prior to tackling the Apprentice Adept one.
I only got through the first 3 books before I stopped, and which my 2015 Resolution to "Finish What I Started" I want to finally tackle the series.Piers Anthony is refreshing, hilarious, extremely creative, and I love how well developed he writes his characters.
The world of Proton and Phaze are easily imagined given through his writing.
I found it a simple read, but at the same time complex given the detail he used to set each seen, and his colorful dialogue and vocabulary throughout.
This novel feels like it was written by a 13 year old boy who overcompensates for his social awkwardness and self-loathing with outward displays of machismo and misogyny.
The sexism in this book is disgusting.
Is there redeeming value?
However, the book had horrible pacing.
The plot?
It might have redeemed some of the flaws except that most of the plot devices and the motivation for the main character were all based on the horribly misogynistic relationships the self-hating narcissist main character has.
So can I power through the second and third installment of this series to resolve the overall plot?
One of my favorite books as a youth. Disregarding Anthony's borderline-misogynistic treatment of female characters, the settings and plot of this novel (and the two main sequels) imagine worlds I want to visit over and over again.
My god. This book is brutally lame. Don't do it -- there are just some things you can't un-read.
The book clearly owes a lot to the Xanth series in many of its premises.
I suppose Anthony wanted another series that had slightly different premises than Xanth.
I still think that it wasn't all that fair to Neysa but with everyone demanding extreme obedience to various oaths and obligations I suppose it was the best Anthony could do.
The characters aren't as complex as in the Xanth series, which might be an unfair criticism since this is only the first book and a lot of world building had to take place.
This was a good book but Anthony can do better.
I Read it because of the Cover29 February 2012 I understand the saying 'don't judge a book by its cover' but the only reason I decided to read this book was because of its cover. I suspect that the saying means that because if we don't like the cover then we shouldn't necessarily throw the book away, however I do not think it really applies when we like the cover and then want to read the book. Still, just because a book has a cool cover does not necessarily mean that it will be a cool book. Thi
Anthony has created an interesting culture on Proton as it is a rigid class structure with limited ability to move from being a serf to a citizen (I will deal with Phaze in the next book).
This is the most interesting aspect because some see that our ability to chose what we wish to wear to be a reflection of freedom in our society.
I find it very interesting that a planet ruled by science like Proton has such an unenlightened political system where in effect slavery still exists, and entry into the ruling class is difficult if not impossible for most.
Piers Anthony startled me with this book, to be honest.
I was not expecting a novel that blended futuristic science fiction with sword-and-sorcery fantasy to be so engaging, but Anthony pulled it off.
There's nothing really groundbreaking in this book other than his juxtaposition of parallel worlds, one of which provides the futuristic sci-fi setting and the other of which provides the fantasy setting, but Anthony writes soft sci-fi and sword-and-sorcery fantasy quite well and he adds just enough flourish to the tried and true tropes of these genres to make the book interesting.
And sometimes I regret it.This is one of those times.About 4 years ago I borrowed a friend's copy of Split Infinity, because I saw it on her bookshelf and instantly nostalgiabombed- I, too, went through a huge Piers Anthony phase in high school.And I was reminded why I stopped reading his books, and never finished this particular series...
In the book she compares this to rape.
I was told by several people to put the book down and walk away, and I wisely did so.Eurgh.
You know that feeling when you remember that you read a thing, and remember it fondly, but then you get that slow, creeping sensation that it isn't actually as good as you remember? That is is, in fact, way worse than you remember?That's how I feel about this book.When I was in my early teens, I really enjoyed reading this. In fact, I really liked quite a few of Anthony's books (Ogre Ogre, A Spell for Chameleon, this means you). I'm now painfully aware of how outrageously sexist they are.Yikes.
In fact, I would encourage anyone who thinks they might be the least bit interested to go pick up the book immediately without reading a further word.
Why are you still reading this?
Go get this book and read it right now.
I'll wait.Anyone still reading this review should hopefully only be doing so because you've already read the book and are for some reason curious to know more about what I thought of it.
So, I really liked Stile, even though he's a bit cavalier about sleeping with two "women" at the same time.
Can't wait to read the next one.
It takes a LOT for me to DNF a book after 10%.
The world - This is a extremely cool concept that Anthony has posed in SPLIT INFINITY, but the truth is - he spends way too much time setting up the "romance" and not enough time explaining the SUPER SUPER COOL CONCEPT that is the world this is set in.2.
And usually, I'm not bothered by it - I'm a huge fan of Anthony, and the touches of it in all of his novels has never irritated me to the level that this book did.
It's so bad, guys.
My biggest issue was with the main character, Style.
Honestly, I thought his android girlfriend, Sheen, showed more potential as a main character and the book would have done well to focus on her.I lost interest in the story when the author spent an excessive number of pages discussing horse manure and the ridiculously never ending ride the unicorn took him on.
What finished it for me was him having sex with the unicorn while she was in her (perfect) human form, and then meeting her brother who started speaking in bad Shakespearean English.
I needed a mental holiday and rereading this book was some great escapism.
There are aspects of the story early on (Stile and Sheen, Stile and Neysa...actually pretty much anytime Stile takes his pants off or considers taking his pants off...) that are sort of uncomfortable with shades of sexist BUT then I take a step back and accept that this is set in a distant time and place and I can't really judge by current rules.
I so want it to be real because it seems like a great time!
It led me to a slew of other books that I ended up enjoying a immensely.I found the main premise behind split infinity fascinating.
Stiles, the main character is able cross over to the alternate Magical reality at will, because his other "self" in that reality was killed.
so the existence of your alternate self prevents you from entering the other reality.Stiles is, in each world, the 'Best' or an adept, but it is really interesting to see how the character and first fumbles with his new-found magical powers, and learns how to become "adept" at using them.Very clever idea for a continuing story line.
Hate to badmouth it, but...: This idea that Piers Anthony gives is great.
I just couldn't stand the multiple-page long monologues Stile gives frequently.
It seemed that every chapter Stile was giving some speech or another about morality or about how great he was at one thing or another.
That's another thing that's not so great.
I like having a hero who is really good at a few things, but it seemed that Stile was good at everything -riding horses, fighting, the Game, robots, even magic he picked up quickly.
Heroes that are too good wind up too bad.
Piers Anthony was my favorite author while growing up, and I read nearly all of his books he had written before I turned 16.
I decided to try him again (now that Im 41), and see how he holds up.
He's still fun, but clearly not what I remembered.
I have read recent accusations against him of being misogynistic, and while I wouldnt go that far..
His treatment of female characters is certainly..
different.
He reminds of of Orson Scott Card: great ideas, but lacking in most other areas, combined with a generous layer of weirdness when it comes to sex.
Sadly, I dont think his books will stand the test of time.
Excellent and enthralling yarn about games and gaming, wizards and adepts, hierarchical societies, robots and unicorns. Science fiction, sword and sorcery, are all convincingly welded together in this tale. Although this mongrel of a book may not appeal to the purist, it is that rarity, an unputdownable tale. It took me more than 25 years to look for and read the rest of the series after the first two books. They took the story to an excellent conclusion and I only wish I had searched earlier.
