https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1094330.The_Benson_Murder_Case
His aristocratic arrogance, his very affected English accent (acquired during a prolonged stay in England), his contempt for modern life, his political views (circumstantial evidence is, he explains, almost as great a folly as democracy), the fact that no matter what subject comes up during an investigation Vance will prove to an expert in that field - all these things will either delight or incense the reader.While Van Dine is very much of the Golden Age school of crime writing with the emphasis on puzzle-solving at the same time Vance’s belief in the psychological approach to murder is an interesting anticipation of more modern trends in crime fiction.Personally I just can’t get enough of Philo Vance.
Many years ago, when I first read Julian Symons's wittily graceful if sometimes controversial history of crime fiction, Bloody Murder (1972/74), I was sufficiently impressed by his excoriation of S.S. Van Dine's Philo Vance novels that I resolved never to touch one with a bargepole if I could possibly help it.
Much more refined and gentlemanly, y’ know.”Markham considered a moment.“I think I’ll keep out of it, and leave the Socratic elenctus entirely to you.”“An extr’ordin’rily brilliant suggestion,” said Vance.Markham, you'll recall, is a grizzled DA, a hardbitten fighter of crime, yet he's using terms like "Socratic elenctus"?
I am so glad I finally decided to pick the series up, it's been shelved for me for quite a while now!The story starts with the art Connoisseur Philo Vance sitting at breakfast with Van Dine, who run his own business, when they're called upon by the district attorney himself- Markham.
Alvin's brother, Major Anthony Benson, Markham's friend, like a good ol' big brother, offers every assistance he can and turns over a list of few names for them to start their investigation.What makes a crime mystery truly worth reading is it's unpredictability.
The mystery per se is fairly interesting, although nothing unusual; Vance (=Van Dine) does take an unusual approach in looking at the case from several different points of view before revealing the solution to the murder, which of course he knew the minute he first set eyes on the corpse.
Particularly irksome were pages of esoteric art criticism & commentary (I love art, but not in the middle of a mystery!), & Vance's physically impossible peppering of his conversation with apostrophes -- not just droppin' the occasional G, don't ye know, but leavin' out ev'ry schwa and a s'prisin' range of oth'r function'l syl'bles.
Unfortunately, the fact that Van Dine could not rely on previous authors to avoid unnecessary errors does not make the read any more enjoyable.From the pages and pages detailing Vance's art collection to the sneering superiority with which the main character lavishes such gems as "Evidence is irrelevant.
The few red herrings used are tame and barely adequate to cover the fact that all relevant information is already revealed in the first 50 pages or so.In the end you have a lackluster crime novel with unnecessary lengths and an annoying protagonist.
Otherwise there are a lot of classic crime novels significantly better at what Van Dine was trying to do here.
También el hecho de que Philo se guardara información para sí, aunque al final explica por qué lo hizo y se lo perdono.Hacia las tres cuartas partes de la novela, cuando el fiscal del distrito y amigo de Philo ya se fía de él, todo discurre con mucha más naturalidad y se da paso a una resolución tal vez algo previsible, pero ingeniosa, y que en mi caso no decepciona.Sin duda es un misterio clásico, que en vez de basarse en la deducción fría y las pistas comos otros detectives, se basa en la figura de Philo Vance, un "diletante"culto, irónico y flemático que estudia los crímenes como si de obras de arte se tratara, reconociendo al auto no por las pistas, sino por la impronta personal del autor.Aunque el hecho de que los policías y el fiscal se agarraran a su forma de investigar aún cuando Philo había acertado varias veces me molestó un poco, lo cierto es que la novela me ha divertido mucho y creo que los amantes del género lo encontraran una lectura interesante y entretenida.
A fine standard classic mystery. My first read of the author. For mystery game, the author played by the rule fairly. For personal taste, I am tired with the many philosophical quotes in the main protagonist's voice in talking. Maybe for fulfilled number of words quota of the novel?
Bu tarz bir kitap okuyalı biraz zaman olmuş, bu tadı yeniden almak hoş oldu.Philo Vance serisi, baş karakter odaklı serilerden.
Yazar karakteri suskun olarak tanımlıyor, insanlarla pek konuşmayan, mümkün olduğunca az cümle kuran biri olarak ancak kitapta hem uzun hemde çok fazla konuşması vardı.
Bunlar okurken beni çokça rahatsız etti ve karşılaştırmak istemesem de Sherlock karakterinin bu yönlerden ne kadar başarılı olduğunu düşünmeden edemedim.Diyalogların arasına serpiştirilmiş alıntılar güzel ancak gereğinden fazla idi, özellikle de suskun bir karakter için.
Katili tahmin etmekse zor değildi yine de yazarın stili güzeldi, karakterin özgün bir tarzı var ancak bu kitapta çok ham kalmış.
Another 11 novels appeared, about one per year, until his early death in 1939 at the age of 51.There are some, like the current Philo Vance wiki author, who believe "Vance's character as portrayed in the novels might seem to many modern readers to be supercilious, obnoxiously affected, and highly irritating" and, actually, that's true.
Much of this tale inhabits the privileged class of which Vance was securely, and proudly, a member.So, there's my own long-winded way of putting it: a charming bon-bon of classic early American detective fiction that's well worth devouring.
I enjoyed this book.
Some people are highly critical of this style- I enjoy all kinds of books.
I intend to read the others over time as this is an acquired taste.
I like to read books that are only available as eBooks , science thrillers and ones that might be a little unpolished as I enjoy digging in the author dirt.
Even though this one has been dead for some time I gave it 5 stars and admire that the work is still worth the read!
Consider it if you'd like something different that doesn't read like a movie script...
Brilliant.
this is a picture of the 1930 scribner edition, which looks exactly like the 1926 edition:
I had fond memories of reading some of my dad's mystery books about an American amateur sleuth, so I decided to get the ebook of the Benson Murder Case.
After a few chapters, a few things became apparent:1) S.S. Van Dine couldn't write at all;2) Philo Vance is a pompous ass;3) my dad read Ellery Queen.This is a bad book.
Van Dine can't handle more than two characters in a scene.
Not to mention the narrator, his own alter ego, who shadows Philo Vance for the entire book without ever saying a word or doing anything aside from looking at things.
I read this series of Philo Vance books when I was but a child compared to now.
They were popular hardbacks, filling the shelves of the house we moved to when I was 10.
This book went on and on about how much fine art and erudition our hero possessed, how refined and conversant with the classic languages of Latin and French, along with many obscure words uncommon in our own English, but seldom used except by those who wish to exclude others from understanding the drift, dontchaknow, Philo Vance was.
The story was fine, the explanation long in coming.
Il critico letterario, noto con lo pseudonimo di S.S. Van Dine, quando ha deciso di cimentarsi con la narrativa poliziesca, mettendo a frutto la sua erudizione e le sue doti analitiche, ha fatto subito centro, creando uno dei personaggi più interessanti dei classici del giallo di sempre, il celebre Philo Vance.Con LA STRANA MORTE DEL SIGNOR BENSON arriva l'esordio del protagonista Philo Vance, investigatore dilettante che affronta ogni indagine come una sfida intellettuale.
Per decifrare un omicidio simile, destinato a rimanere negli annali della storia del crimine, occorre un detective all’altezza dell'indagine e S.S. Van Dine ci mostra subito di che pasta è fatto Philo Vance che è un investigatore pronto a fare scuola.
Having recently finished a Howie Rook mystery, I thought I'd give another classic a try.
(I could count on one hand how many times that's happened.) I couldn't even finish the chapter I was reading (Ch. 10) when I finally gave up.
Philo Vance's theories of detection are based on the "science of individual character and the psychology of human nature, discarding entirely physical evidence and motive.
Supposedly Philo speaks with a British accent acquired while living abroad for some years.
It's a classic and I honestly didn't expect in to read like crime novels written 80 or more years later.
Wow. I have heard that the Philo Vance mysteries should be avoided, and now I understand why. There was no time in the book that I wasn't hoping someone would kill Philo, or at least punch him out. Having said that, the back half of the book picked up dramatically, so it wasn't a total waste of time. But I would definitely read a mystery entailing the murder of Mr. Vance.....I was also surprised to see that I had read another book in this series many years ago, so maybe I'll give it another chance, but not for a while.
First in a series of murder cases from the 1920's. Although the book was written almost 90 years ago, it does not feel dated too much. The major amateur detective, Philo Vance, is a bit of a fop and rather plays games with the District Attorney but he does demonstrate his use of psychology to solve the crime well. A very satisfying read.
This is the first novel I've read by this author, although I might have read some short stories by him. The main character, Philo Vance, is a bit like Peter Wimsey. The mystery wasn't all that great, but I enjoyed it, and I'm looking forward to reading the next one by this author.
The Benson Murder Case is the first in the Philo Vance series, introducing the characters and setting up the series. The book details how Vance comes to work with District Attorney Markham and shows his association with his "biographer" Van Dine.
Loved the character development . Kept my interest hostage for the entire story. Have found a new hero to follow. Will be reading Philo's other adventures.
I am abandoning this one. It's just too tedious, with excessive description and exposition. I find Vance to be a cheap imitation of Peter Wimsey, and Van Dine doesn't have Sayers's wit.
you might want to punch philo vance in the face. one case where the movie is an improvement over the books!
The relationship between Philo Vance and his sidekick is formulaic, and they are both annoying people.
An oldie but goodie
At the outset of The Benson Murder Case, the talented amateur Vance scoffs at conventional clue-oriented detecting and argues for the superiority of psychological insight and aesthetic judgement as more reliable means of determining a suspect’s guilt or innocence.
The novel then gives us fairly sturdy, if a bit dated, conventional clue-oriented mystery story, where the hero separates meaningful clues from red herrings and builds a case in fairly conventional way for an average cozy mystery.
Though intended as a Dr. Watson type, the character Van Dine disappears into the narration for several chapters at at time, interacting with other characters in the novel precious little.
En este caso un dilentante y experto en arte, un intelectual culto, vividor y pedante, algo cargante por su constante narcisismo e ironía, que se burla sin remedio de la policía (algo zoquete) gracias a su aguda inteligencia y su amistad con el fiscal del distrito, y que sentencia sin parar sobre lo divino y lo humano.
También me gustó el comentario de Vance sobre la gastronomía y el comer bien: "comer es la única guía infalibre para el progreso intelectual de un pueblo, de la misma manera que es lo que calibra en forma inevitable el temperamento del individuo".
New York early twentieth century is the setting for this mediocre murder mystery.
Vance is just an American caricature of multiple British detectives of an earlier period.
He combines the seductive skills of Sherlock Holmes and the upper class refinement of Lord Wimsey.
But he emerges neither as intriguing and engaging a personality as Holmes nor as charming and amusing as Wimsey.
The murder of an unlikeable playboy holds little appeal.
The author pretty much lays a case against every suspect- and as though picking a lottery winner, chooses the final murderer.
There is no logical elimination of the suspects.
Enjoyable and better towards the end. One has to take into consideration that this was Philo Vance's first adventure, therefore most of the book intends, apparently, to present Philo Vance to the reader as a super psychologist, overcoming common deduction through his psychological prowess's. That I found quite tiresome! But the plot in itself is interesting enough to make up for the rest.Maria Carmo,Lisbon 31 July 2017.
Weak crime story. Vance is annoying, and in this first book seems a bad copycat of Christie's Poirot, but much more arrogant. The first half is really slow, and most of the time filled by pointless conversations. The second part is more engaging, but the crime is not really original, compared to other novels of the same time period.
