https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21801326-la-m-sica-de-erich-zann
Lovecraft’s protagonist hears strange violin music in the night and investigates to find a weird old musician, unable to communicate except for written messages in French and German and through his odd playing.The Rue d’Auseil is a setting particularly Lovecraftian - dark and twisted and mysterious, really more surrealistic than genuinely described, almost reminiscent of Kafka.Like much of Lovecraft’s work this is memorable not so much for the plot, but for the mood and atmosphere he creates.
A Lovecraft BR with great GR dweller, Craig :)A nice story, proper scary atmosphere, with a hint of madness. I'm struggling with my reads and I feel that Lovecraft is not getting proper attention from me as it should. I'm putting Lovecraft on hold for a bit. Sorry Craig.Note to self:
Finally, one night, he does play his secret music, and the university man learns, to his horror, who and what Zann plays the music for.I like the entire story, but perhaps my favorite part is the beginning, with the nightmarish, distorted description of the decrepit old street (presumably in Paris) where the narrator lives.
Occasionally an opposite pair, both leaning forward, almost met across the street like an arch; and certainly they kept most of the light from the ground below.
I'm tickled to say that this 1922 horror short story by H.P. Lovecraft doesn't use the word "eldritch," not even once. It does, however, have insane viol playing, the "blackness of space illimitable," and a strange, narrow street in Paris that, even though the narrator once lived there, can never be found again.I'm just a dabbler with the horror genre generally and Lovecraft in particular, but this was a creepily enjoyable story. Read it free online here at the H.P. Lovecraft website.Full review to come.
The Music of Erich Zann is a beautiful story of an unnamed narrator who as a student discovered the beauty and dread of the music of Erich Zann.The story is told years later after a long and unsuccessful search for a strange street where the narrator lived for a while when he was a student.
The Rue d’Auseil consists of stairs and the houses don't look like ordinary houses since they lean this way or that.While living there, he hears his upstairs neighbour playing his viol.
Anyone who ever thought or believed that Lovecraft was a bad writer needs to read "The Music of Erich Zann" immediately. It's brief, but I believe it is Lovecraft's masterpiece. It's a perfect story and has none of the "purple prose" problems that Lovecraft's detractors harp upon. In fact, I think the story blows anything that Poe wrote out of the water and is surely one of the best, most ideal weird tales ever written.Do yourself a favor and read it now if you haven't already.
This one is another good creeper by Lovecraft.
Scary music, an entertaining concept with dazzling prose and infinite possibilities, but still boils down to a story that is essentially about a bunch of spooky noises coming from instruments. Worth reading just for the prose honestly.
A strange, haunting, compelling story about a university student who discovers the music of Erich Zann. Appreciated Lovecraft's writing but I was left wanting more from the ending - a greater musical background may have enhanced my enjoyment of the story as well.
A good build up and this is one of those times when Lovecraft's occassional lack of detail (it's was so hideous, it was beyond description!) actually heightens the horror, giving us the infinite terror of the void. A decent spooky tale.
Exceptionally creepy, but it lacks something - it doesn't have a terribly satisfying conclusion. Puzzling, more than anything, really.
Sheesh, that was creepy. But I loved the open ending. Wonderful! This was my introduction to Lovecraft and it made me want to get my hands on more.
Perfectly tightens the screws to a wonderfully horrific crescendo.
Short story. Interesting. 4 stars. Worth the 15 minutes if your time.
4.25 stars. This was weird and trippy which equates to me enjoying it. Review to come.
Lovecraft paints a lovely picture of the music in question and the horror is quite real, but in general this story lacks substance, development and a sattisfying plot. It feels slightly rushed.
Short story about a student who hears some very strange music coming from another apartment in his building in an obscure section of a large, old city, and makes the acquaintance of the strange old mute who plays it.
It turns out the musician is trying to keep at bay some nameless, faceless horror that we never get to see.
Also, much like The Statement of Randolph Carter, it was left very open-ended, instead of using the explicit and detailed monsters and plot points that HPL seems to love so much.
Very haunting.
One of those strange Lovecraft tales, here the narrator gets lodgings on a rather unusual steet where most of the residents are quite old, he eventually meets a violinist called Erich Zann.....
Wow. Lovecraft can do subtlety and understatement. Color me pleasantly surprised.
Creepy
It was not that the sounds were hideous, for they were not; but that they held vibrations suggesting nothing on this globe of earth […]"As with other celebrated works of Lovecraft, “The Music of Erich Zann” has been transmogrified into a considerable number of modern adaptations, including short films, animations, pencil drawings, and instrumental pieces (not to mention the obligatory plethora of heavy metal songs).
After that chance encounter, the weird turns eerie to become stark terror.“The Music of Erich Zann” plays on a recurrent theme in Lovecraft’s fiction, which is the inability of the human senses to process, even sufficiently register, otherworldly stimuli.
The ending was kind of: "Is that all?" I feel like Lovecraft was trying to get horror into everything.
Here is the cosmic horror of music, but hard to appreciate because what was supposedly horrifying about it to the narrator is not said.
I like the attempt at bringing in music and avoiding racism as the source of the evil, well it's French but I didn't get the impression of that being why.
Either way, in a paradoxical way, I liked that the note flew outside and we don't get it back.
Like in your face, you don't get the answer because that's life.
На вузькій і темній вулиці Ру д'Осей, яка тягнеться до вершини одного з пагорбів Парижа, жив німецький майстер гри на віолі Еріх Цанн. Тепер цю вулицю неможливо знайти, але саме тут, як розказує оповідач, він деякий час прожив у часи свого студентства. Еріх Цанн творив надзвичайну музику, зовсім не схожу ні на що раніше чуте. Його віола видавала ноти, які від неї ніхто не міг очікувати. Одного вечор маестро вирішив написати для оповідача пояснення свого таланта німецькою мовою, оскільки французькою володів не дуже добре. Втім, дописати своє одкровення йому не судилося.
Este corto relato destrona fascinantes a trabajos como "El color que cayó del cielo" o " Los sueños en la casa de la bruja" o inclusive a la misma "En las montañas de la locura", que hasta la fecha era mi favorito de Lovecraft. Con los aires del terror cósmicos que nunca faltan en cualquier escrito Lovecraftiano, La musica de Erich Zann se volvió en uno de mis relatos favoritos de todos los tiempos. 5/5
The impression I had of this tale is comparable to a whole night awake with insomnia because of a mosquito that makes an intermittent sound wanting to sting you. Unable to turn on the light, we try to make the mosquito stop. For a moment the buzz stops. But as if it were a ghost the sound of it returns. And it lasts all night. And we forget to sleep. And we spend all day long wanting to forget the night that has passed.
The narrator lives as a lodger in an old house and hears amazing music coming from upstairs, thus he makes the acquaintance of Erich Zann, a misterious musician with some dark secrets of his own. Although the story is quite good it is slightly frustrating that we never really get to know the origin of Zann's plight.
Better written than much of Lovecraft. Fun little vignette. It's unclear if the music is opening the door or holding it shut (or maybe some of both, depending on the moment and the tune?). Also a nice detail about places only findable when you are in the right state (of mind? of physical condition? Could be either).
Here Lovecraft shows us his usual style and themesA scholarly protagonist slowly entering the realms of the unknown? Check.Dark and inconceivable horrors lurking around reality's edges? CheckA fruitless attempt against those horrors? Double CheckThis a haunting read that makes a quick incursion into the mythos, but nonetheless has all the marks of a great Lovecraft story
(view spoiler)[Hideous beings from space (?) torment an old mute viola master. (hide spoiler)] Explanation ripped away by the wind, but that kind of worked here. I'm thinking about liking this one.(Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
It's a freaky little story, but the author keeps too much hidden from the reader to the point that not only does your imagination take over, but you're not even really sure what's happening or even why it's happening.
