https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/128899.The_Foxfire_Book
Just like my advice to anyone, for anything, is to build a fire with your bare hands: what we need to do is burn every goddamn self-help book in existence and distribute these instead. I’m serious. Elect me president and that’s the only thing I’ll do. So... don’t elect me president, is what I’m saying.The moonshining chapter is the best. Plus every single gold nugget of a story that, all the way down to the dialect, sounds exactly like every single story I grew up with from grandmas, grandpas, aunts, uncles, neighbors. This book— these books, plural— are a treasure.
(Especially since my dad has all of them sitting on his bookshelves.) I loved it, of course.
It is in significant part a practical book covering topics ranging from building a log cabin to pickling vegetables, and initially, I felt most excited about learning those things.
But although that was cool, it wasn't what really got me about the book.
The difference extends beyond the crafts and activities.
Nature looms large, money plays a different role, people are more tied to places.
Loved the chapter on moonshining, which made me want to build a still.
This is a compilation of a bunch of magazine articles done by a creative high school teacher in the mountains of Georgia in the 60's, who saw that the older generation of folks who had grown up around the turn of the century had an awful lot of knowledge that was about to die with them, and also saw that their television-watching grandkids felt almost no connection with their log-cabin dwelling, moonshine-making grandparents.Essentially what we've got is a number of articles written by high school students (edited by their Ivy-educated teacher) using their own grandparents and older members of their communities as the source.
Topics range from making moonshine to building log cabins, but my favorite part of the book was the guide to universal superstition of the phases of the Moon, revealing how the moon's cycle affects planting, painting, building, etc.
Eliot Wigginton, then a young Appalachian school English teacher, made a groundbreaking decision to reach out to his unruly, disrespectful, students in a personal, and meaningful, way by throwing out his entire curriculum.
He started fresh engaging his students in a vast creative project that ultimately became Foxfire, named for a phosphorescent flower that grows in the mountains there.
The Foxfire books are really a collection of articles written by the students as they investigated the Appalachian way of life and documented the vanishing arts and (survival) skills of the mountain people.
I have all of the Foxfire books and they are wonderful for dipping-in and perusing. I feel that this will be a good book to share with my son as he gets older so that he can see how 'folks used to live' in these Appalachian mountains of ours. Educational...and I love the 'oral history' aspect of this series.
I found a copy in my dad's estate, and felt it was high time to begin reading it again.The Foxfire magazine was a school project.
A teacher in North Carolina, Eliot Wiggington, wanted to discover a way to teach his students that would rather not learn.
The result was a magazine written by the students on the folklore and forgotten way of life of the people of the mountains of North Carolina.
Reading it a generation after it was initially published, and more than 30-years after I was introduced to it, it still has the same impact as my first time!
Soon after these titles started appearing in book stores, I decided I needed to own them. They sounded like they'd be a useful reference. (Remember, these came out before the internet came along.) I flipped the pages, scanned the contents, and spot-read some of the pages. Then they sat gathering dust until I heard Wigginton speak at a conference. That triggered my memories and I flipped pages once again. These still have a spot on my bookshelves, but I have to admit that I've never used any of the info for more than entertainment value.
This is one of the most refreshing and satisfying books I've ever read. It began as a high school class visiting and taking down stories by and about people who are content and comfortable with their ordinary lots in life. Folks who are happy "puttin' up 'maters." I read several volumes of the series and I always return gladly to this first one, the touchstone volume.
"Arthritis: Drink a mixture of honey, vinegar, and moonshine." That'll definitely do the trick!These are always really interesting to read, although I just skimmed some parts like how to kill a hog :( and cabin building really isn't on my to-do list. The essays and interviews are probably the best to see how different it is from today.
This is a collection of magazine articles about Appalachian living around three to five generations ago, depending on the reader's age. It is a mix of how-to articles of questionable quality, stories, and tall tales. The depth isn't really enough to provide instruction on its own, so better to consider it as preserving slices of life from a time increasingly distant. Best for folks with some connection to the area, or interested in the subject matter.
While on vacation in Georgia, we made time to go to the Foxfire Museum site. What an experience! Growing up in rural Kentucky, I had read the first Foxfire book as a child. Reading it again at 40 was a delight! This series is a testament to so many worthwhile things - from a teacher figuring out how to really connect with students to exploring true self-reliance and preserving history. I can't wait to read the whole set!
My parents had this and the rest of this series when I was a kid and I was finally able to get a vintage copy for myself. This is a really amazing book full of tips that are sometimes helpful sometimes not , but always a pleasure to read.
I was much more interested in Eliot Wigginton's foreword about his teaching experiences than I was about the actual contents, although this was a popular book among the folks I knew in the back-to-the-land movement of the times. I didn't get that much practical value out of the book, unfortunately.
Fascinating
Educational and entertaining. We just don't realize how easy we have it today.
These kinds of books are very informative and have proved extremely useful for writing and research.
Great concept and useful information.
What a fun read.
Still relevant (if not more so) in today's world where folks grow more disconnected from their world, where their food comes from and what their ancestors did to live day-to-day.
Mixed views on this, but of course they're colored by my preconceptions of what oral history *should* be rather than, necessarily, the quality of the project, itself.
I would read another one. Sure.
Interesting book and project, but hard to find the work instructional in any way. More entertaining as a slice of life.
As best I can piece together, this book is a compilation of articles appearing in Foxfire magazine between the years 1966 and 1972, and though the sub-title (“hog-dressing, log cabin building…” etc.) promises all kinds of crazy coolness, it turns out the coolest thing about it is that it was written by ninth- and tenth-grade English classes at Rabun County High School in north Georgia in lieu of a “normal” English curriculum.
All the articles are excellent, but people who find such things uninteresting might struggle a bit.A disclaimer for English teachers: This book, when read in conjunction with Teaching as a Subversive Activity may lead you to chuck your standardized curriculum and start a magazine.As for Foxfire today?
The practical guides in all of the Foxfire books have helped me stay in touch with my roots.
I may never have to build a log cabin or dress a freshly killed hog, but it's good to know the right ways, the traditional ways, to do a thing right.The Foxfire books started in the late 1960s in rural Appalachia as a school project to preserve local knowledge and folklore.
There is an eye-opening range of useful and practical knowledge in these books.
This brief review is for the entire series.
For those who know the Foxfire story it probably needs little background.
For those who may not know, you owe it to yourself to read the initial installment which will likely lead you to the others.
The books are primarily the results of a series of interviews of the elderly inhabitants of the Appalachia in the eastern US.
If you have ever wondered what strengths and skills built and carried a nation much of that is captured here in deep detail.
Ever wonder how deep community water wells were dug 100+ years ago?
At Rabun County High School, a small country school in the remotely rural mountains of North Georgia, a high school teacher came up with an interesting assignment for his class: the students were to interview old country folk to seek to learn old mountain crafts, lore, traditions, and customs directly from the folks who grew up immersed in these ways.
The resulting interviews were published as a book prepared by the students at Rabun Gap High School as The Foxfire Book.
This volume spawned a series of follow-up books which covered different topics in the same vein.
Written in the 1960s as a series of newsletters and later edited and published in a series of books, the first Foxfire book draws on the necessities of survival and thriving in the Appalachian mountains.
Written as an exercise in English or language arts education, the newsletters tell the story of what it takes to survive in the rural, mountainous areas.
While this is not a survivor's manual by any means, it brought to life many of the things I grew up knowing as a child from hearing stories passed down by my parents, grandparents, great-grandparents and their siblings.
I had to read The Foxfire Book in chunks,so luckily The Foxfire Book lends itself to that.
Reading this book is like stepping back in time.
When the young people (high school students and their English teacher)who collaborated on it were doing the interviews with the folks who gave the instructions.
This book tells you step by step how to do things like make soap from scratch, build a log cabin, churn butter, butcher hogs and more.
I've only read the first one, but I look forward to acquiring the others.
Who says English teachers are boring?
I love the idea of this book, but it is not the kind of book you read cover-to-cover.
There were some interesting stories throughout the text.
The book needed more of those stories and less formal instruction on home remedies, perhaps an appendix for those sections.
The Firefox books began in the 1960s when a school teacher had his high school students interview and compile collections of instructions and insight from the elderly mountain folk of Appalachia to preserve their history and wisdom.
I love the introduction and the action of creating the book.
People are wussies these days and I think everyone needs to have a copy of this book!
Hell I want multiple copies so I can put one on my bookshelf, one in my kitchen, and maybe one in my bathroom.
I tossed a copy in my 'bug-out' bag!This is a gem of a book and they just don't make them like this anymore.
Kids could benefit from this knowledge as well and need to get off their lazy Cheetos riddled butts and away from all those video games!
She found it and was going to toss it before she let me see it and I eagerly snatched it up!
