https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39670832-young-anne
Anne is a small child when we meet her, misunderstood by her parents, who are disinterested, damaged and products of their time.
Luckily Anne has one constant and caring person in her life, their servant Emily Barnes.
The story follows Anne through school, friendship, her first relationship, starting work, the war and marriage.
The story seems quite autobiographical although Anne's George (view spoiler)[ returns from the war whereas Dorothy's George tragically doesn't (hide spoiler)] Dorothy observes family life, relationships and class prejudices accutely and the culmination of Mr and Mrs Yates dreams for their daughter are particularly fitting.
This was my very first Dorothy Whipple story and I loved it. The following is the link to my blog with a full review: https://quirkyreader.livejournal.com/...
First published in 1927, Young Anne is Whipple's debut novel, and the final book of hers which Persephone will be printing, bringing as they have done all of her wonderful novels back into print.Young Anne, which includes a lovely preface by Lucy Mangan, is a 'quasi-autobiographical novel about a young girl's journey to womanhood.' Mangan addresses the double-edged sword which comes with the publication of the final Whipple novel; whilst thrilled that all of her fiction is now readily available for scores of new fans to discover, she writes that 'to be reaching the end of her work entire feels positively injurious to health.' Mangan explores the ways in which protagonist Anne's life echoes that of Whipple's, and the way in which, even as a debut novel, this has many of the qualities which can be found and admired in her later work: '...
Anne, Whipple’s protagonist, comes of age during that same period - her young adulthood coincides with World War I - but while the war provides a brief stint of work as a secretary, what is more noteworthy about Anne’s life is how little scope she has for her intelligence and energy.
In both cases, there is a strong sense that such a crisis could have been averted in a life less disappointing and boring.In Young Anne, the ‘romantic’ hero is called George Yates - and he is the poor relation of her friend Mildred Yates.
Young Anne published in 1927 is Dorothy Whipple's first novel.A lovely coming of age story that is based on Dorothy's own first twenty years of life.Funny and heart breaking, a must read for all Dorothy Whipple fans.
Quite lovely.
Possibly my favourite Whipple to date! Loved the autobiographical nature of Anne's childhood (which matched up almost perfectly to The Other Day) - only wish I could know how much of the rest resembles Whipple's own life! Why Persephone Books haven't re-released this yet I have no idea! It is utterly charming (as all her books are!) and made me laugh out loud and cry in turn. The perfect Sunday read.
The story shows Anne’s early years, her time at school, falling in love and her first job.
It could be said that nothing much happens but Dorothy Whipple wrote in such a way that she made the reader invested in the characters.
Anne’s life has a similar arc to Dorothy’s and the tone of the novel shows that sometime Anne and Dorothy are almost one person.
Later there are moments of quiet, understated romance, of expressions of feelings that could almost pass the young protagonist by, but which are told by an older, perhaps wiser woman in a way that shows the underlying intentions of the person behind those acts.
A novel by Dorothy Whipple never fails to disappoint. Her first novel, Young Anne is not a perfect one, but it is amazingly good.
A lovely read. It felt like a period novel written today, so it was wonderful to remember that Dorothy Whipple’s modern-feeling insights into women’s lives are actually completely of their time. I’m off to find more of her work!
Dorothy Whipple’s debut, Young Anne, was first published in 1927 by Jonathan Cape, but has been republished in 2018 by Persephone Books.
After her friend George Owen was killed in the first week of the war she worked as a secretary to Henry Whipple, an educational administrator twenty-four yeas her senior.
They married in 1917…Like Whipple, our protagonist in Young Anne is the youngest child of a conventional Lancastrian family.
However, Whipple’s first love, George, was killed within a week of action.
Her first novel, so not as accomplished as her later work. Many of the same themes, young women dissatisfied with their lives, a distain for social climbers, the emergence of women as a new class of workers and consumers in WWI and between the wars. Her usual lovely characterization, though sometimes her language seems a bit studied. But first novels are like first children- one tries so hard to get everything right and somehow always overdo it.
The last 20 pages are excellent
I think the autobiographical elements in this one were strong! Especially once I'd read her ODNB entry.Now off to chase down the Whipples I haven't read - or if I do that, will they suddenly come out from Persephone?
