https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3408.Otis_Spofford
Dang; Cleary sure did know how to knock 'em out.
Unfortunately the Mexican folk dance segment and the references to Indians date the book, but the multi-culturism is not an issue.
Otis' poor impulse control is.
Even at the end, when his friends cut him and he begins to learn a bit of empathy, he shows no real remorse; he's irrepressible.
I would love to discuss this with children.
Do they think Otis should be on Ritalin or in Special Ed?
Do they think he's a bully?
How would they cope with him if he were a classmate?
A cute book chronicling the naughty journey of Otis, who enjoys the attention from being in trouble.
He goes from one scenario to another, mainly at school where the landlord can't watch.
There's no mention of a father in his life, but he is raised by a mother who seems to work most of the time at a dance school.
The stories go from a bizarre play where Otis is playing a bull, to a bug disaster, mouse feeding, cutting off a girl's pigtails (I would have done worse in revenge to the little brat) and pig-tail adventures.
Kids should enjoy the stories for the fun they're meant to be in the end.
This was my favorite of all of Beverly Cleary's books. Otis was a mischievous boy and I identified with him because I was a mischievous girl at that age.
Beverly Cleary at her best. She takes Otis, the thorn in sweet Ellen Tebbits' side and makes him real and lovable. Love that Beverly.
Classic Beverly Cleary, which never disappoints.
Otis Spofford is a continuation of Ellen Tebids book, and as such it brings back familiar characters.
The tale is innocent and lovely clean fun, which is what one would expect from Beverly Cleary.
It is a book where boys can be boys, and girls can be girls, exploring their world, and pushing the boundaries just enough to make things interesting.
Highly recommended to parents who want to read aloud and reminisce about days of their own childhood when things were much simpler.
เปนเลมตอจาก "เธอยอมกอนไดมัย"แตเปลียนตัวแสบใหกลายเปนตัวเอกคะแมจะเปนเลมทีเขาเปนพระเอกเอง แตโอติสกยังคงแสบไมเลิกราเลมนีอานสนุกตรงทีเอลเลนเองกโตกลับไดไมแพกันคะอานเลมนีแลวรักเธอมากขึนไปอีกมิตรภาพระหวางคนแกลงกับคนถูกแกลงเรืองนีนารักดีคะ :)
เป็นเล่มต่อจาก "เธอยอมก่อนได้มั๊ย"แต่เปลี่ยนตัวแสบให้กลายเป็นตัวเอกค่ะแม้จะเป็นเล่มที่เขาเป็นพระเอกเอง แต่โอติสก็ยังคงแสบไม่เลิกราเล่มนี้อ่านสนุกตรงที่เอลเลนเองก็โต้กลับได้ไม่แพ้กันค่ะอ่านเล่มนี้แล้วรักเธอมากขึ้นไปอีกมิตรภาพระหว่างคนแกล้งกับคนถูกแกล้งเรื่องนี้น่ารักดีค่ะ :)
I remember reading this book as a kid and learning the word "comeuppance"--meaning you will get what's coming to you!Again, there's no Mr Spofford, nor any explanation as to where he went.
There's even mention of "clumps of dust on the floor." Much closer to the reality of many kids than the perfect-family stories of the time such as *glurge* Trixie Belden and Co. Cleary set out to write realistic stories, and they are, for the most part.It had been a good forty years since the last time I read this, and I still cheered when Ellen learns to fight back against Otis' constant teasing.
Most striking to me, as an adult reader, is how Otis's bad behavior in school was disciplined in school, and his mother was never informed of his antics.
These days, when many schools have a climate of hyper-awareness when it comes to bullying, it seems like Otis's mother would be frequently called into school to meet with the teacher or the principal or a child psychologist.
Anyway, in the end, there's a solid lesson about standing up for yourself against bullies, but even though Otis got his "come-uppance", I'm not really sure there was any real resolution for him.
He first appeared in Ellen Tebbits, where he was fond of tormenting Ellen.In this volume he gets his own story and is introduced like this: "There was nothing Otis Spofford liked better than stirring up a little excitement." He proceeds to stir up trouble at school and in the neighborhood but always weasels his way out.
(Otis has been chasing Ellen on the way to school and indulging in other torments.) Ellen gets him good and he pays a mighty price, but in the end the balance of power shifts only a small amount.The book left me feeling uneasy.
'There was nothing better Otis Spofford liked better than stirring up a little excitement.' So starts 'Otis Spofford.' Otis Spofford is an only and fatherless child who lives with his distracted working mother in a small apartment. Otis Spofford, playing cowboys and Indians (one of several anachronisms in 'Otis Spofford,' such as kids using the word 'keen') 'scalps' a classmate obsessed with growing her hair longer by cutting off a hunk of that hair. Otis Spofford meets the 'comeuppance' promised by his fourth grade teacher when the classmate extracts revenge. Otis Spofford--Beverly Cleary's antihero?
This poor kid needs some Ritalin.
He gets bored very easily, and he picks on the girl he has a crush on.
My favorite part of the book is when the class does an experiment with the rats eating food from the cafeteria versus eating white bread and soda.
Otis really grows to love the rat that is eating bread and soda whom he names Mutt.
I like how Otis wanted to take care of Mutt.
He even skipped lunch to feed Mutt because he thought he was not getting enough food.
I also like how Otis and Ellen developed a friendship.
Awwwright. As much as I was peeved at Otis in the previous book, well, all is forgiven. Otis has wormed his way into my heart, and I'm much more sympathetic to him here. This is, of course, Cleary's genius at work. I might like Otis better than anyone but Henry. The narration was especially lovely. There were some glaringly dated parts, but one remembers when this was written, winces, and moves on.
He doesn't quite believe his teacher's warnings that he will someday get his comeuppance until one day he does something to Ellen that might just be unforgivable.What is most interesting to me about this book is how completely terrible Otis's behavior really is.
I know there are kids like Otis, and I think Cleary understands perfectly what makes them tick, but I'm not sure about the story's willingness to basically let him off the hook in the end.The other problem with this book by contemporary standards is the treatment of American Indians.
And who doesn’t like her mischievous characters?
There is one part in the book that Otis doesn’t like the kids in his reader that he is reading about.
I saw that to when I read many books in my childhood.
Cleary writes with the kid in mind.
Though I don’t like the rat experiment.
And didn’t care for the ‘Unfriendly Indian part, when Otis pretended to be an Indian but returned to a boy.
And wish that the Indian wasn’t seen this way in the book.
And to talk about the stereotypes if this book was ever used in a class will help.
And I recognized Otis Spofford instantly.I had a similar PITA in my life from kindergarten clear up to 12th grade, but a lot of what he did was a lot less humorous than Otis' antics.
Even when I was reading this, though, I could see why Otis was the way he was.
He apparently didn't have a father in his life, his mother had to work an awful lot and didn't seem to have much time for him or much of an idea of how to deal with him, and he was apparently poorer than the kids he went to school with.
I appreciate how Cleary tried to humanize a "mean" boy. Otis wasn't after causing trouble. He was trying to drum up excitement. My 6yo was pretty scandalized by Otis' behavior. Unlike some of her other books, I felt this one didn't age as well. The whole reader section on "Indians" was very telling of its time.
I loved the book Otis Spofford By beverly Cleary because it was super funny.I would recomend this book for trouble makers because thats what Otis is a big trouble maker.I chose this book because it was my moms favorite book when she was young.I guess the apple dosent land far frome the tree thats why i love this book.
I loved the book Otis Spofford By beverly Cleary because it was super funny.I would recomend this book for trouble makers because that´s what Otis is a big trouble maker.I chose this book because it was my moms favorite book when she was young.I guess the apple dosent land far frome the tree thats why i love this book.
I somehow missed putting this Beverly Cleary classic on my "read" list. It's amazing that I still remember bits of the story after all these years. I remember being such a "girly girl" that I wanted Ellen and Otis to grow up and fall in love!
Not my favorite Beverly Cleary. Otis is a classic troublemaker and likes to entertain his class through various pranks but sometimes takes it too far. I hadn’t read this one as a kid and I thought the teasing in it was a little more mean spirited than I expected.
This was a good book to read aloud to the boys. It was pretty silly, but it also made them uncomfortable because Otis can be so mean. That was good to talk through. The boys really know that teasing is not ok, which is great to hear.
As I was reading this book, Otis reminded me of each of my sons. He likes school except for the learning part. He's always trying to stir up some excitement. It was amusing seeing what scheme he'd come up with next.
Actual Rating 3.5 Stars
Wowzers this did not age well. There's a whole chapter about playing Indians and scalping people. Let's skip this one forever.
MY favorite part was when Otis was sorry he had thrown spit balls over the classroom. My least favorite part was when Otis cut Ellen's hair.
This book was fun to read to my boys!
We loved Otis and his antics.
Fantastic readWe liked the story very much. Good old fashioned humour. Perfect for my boys Glad we read it. Will continue our quest to read all cleary's works!
Pretty good, though a bit cringe-worthy at parts, especially the "scalping" and Indian talk - yikes.
This tale of a loveable little freckle faced rabble-rouser named Otis Spofford which was a sequel to Beverly's Ellen Tebbits and seemed to be part of another perhaps companion series to the Huggins books which Miss Cleary did not continue after this second book.
In some ways the dynamic between clean responsible Ellen and rough rowdy Otis seems like a prototype for the dynamic between Beezus & Ramona Quimby and how the two sisters would clash sometimes and I wonder if Beverly used some of that as she developed the Ramona series (The girls had been introduced in Henry Huggins already but had yet to become fleshed out characters).
The common theme that binds together most of these stories (the book is written more as a series of companion anecdotes rather than as one complete narrative) is that Otis is looking to stir up some excitement, and it is at those times that comedic mischief is right around the corner.
Having seen him at times during Beverly Cleary's previous book, "Ellen Tebbits", I knew something of what to expect from Otis, but this book fleshes out his motives and thought processes in much greater detail.
It's the same illustrator that created the cover picture for the book "Ellen Tebbits").
So, I basically ignored the drawings inside the book and pictured Otis as he appears on the cover.
