https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/440496.The_Silver_Crown
This book haunted my childhood memories for years, a mysterious specter, the title of which I couldn't recall.
Browsing an aisle, I turned around and saw the title on the spine before me, a spooky beacon of serendipity, as I had not been looking for it.I checked it out, read it to my son, and got to relive the experience.
It does fall short of great fantasy, largely due to insubstantial resolutions.
Aside from the disappointing ending, this story was one of my first glimpses into fantasy and abstract concepts of time, freedom, telepathy, and sanity, and subliminally technology's role in human development.
Why am I giving this book 5 stars? Because, quite simply...thirty years after first reading it, I still think about it.It made that great of an impression on me. I didn't understand all the words and I couldn't even pronounce a bunch of them but, every once in a while, I think of that little girl when she puts the crown on her head and she BECOMES a queen.That's all. A grown-up rememberance of a children's book. I'll never forget it.Five stars for staying power.
She thinks the crown might have come from her Aunt Sarah who is the only adult she knows who doesn't just pretend to believe Ellen is a queen: she says she is and means it.While at the park, Sarah tries on the crown and it has the effect of making her calm and clear minded, something she needs shortly afterwards when she discovers that her family have apparently all died in a mysterious fire while she was out playing.
Vivid memories of the effect this book had on me when my teacher Mrs Leish read this to us in grade four - and finding the edition I had then, a photo-realist painting of Ellen wearing the silver crown itself, her blue eyes unblinking as she enters into a trance - made me dare to read it again.Let's face it, going back to your taste in grade four often is a big no-no.
O'Brien and Russell Hoban as the architects of my love of arcana, a gnostic sense of the universe as likely to fuck you at any time (thanks, Demi-urge), and the seductive power of the quest, particularly with lots of detail about survival skills and self-sufficient children.
I dunno about other readers that have read this story, but I thought The Silver Crown was scary! The main character’s house gets mysteriously burned down, her family killed, a creepy man stalks her, ( minor spoilers??? -->) (view spoiler)[ some brainwashing organization wants her alive (FOR SOME REASON), and said organization holds countless of children in captivity and teaches them bad things... (hide spoiler)] Nobody can help them either, not even the police! Surely I can’t be the only one
I dunno about other readers that have read this story, but I thought The Silver Crown was scary!
The main character’s house gets mysteriously burned down, her family killed, a creepy man stalks her, ( minor spoilers???
-->) (view spoiler)[ some brainwashing organization wants her alive (FOR SOME REASON), and said organization holds countless of children in captivity and teaches them bad things...
<3Ellen and Otto were fantastic characters.
Ellen is a very down-to-earth type of girl and Otto is very much a typical boy.
I found their teamwork pretty inspiring to be honest.I thought it was funny whenever Ellen would tell Otto something he said was vulgar too.
Here is an excerpt-The Silver Crown is one of the best books I have read.
The descriptions used by the author were stunning in that they transported you there, following after Ellen as she went on her journey.
Ellen is a very strong heroine.
I first borrowed this book from the library, but I ended up checking it out 4 times to reread.
Every time I read it, I find something new and different.
It seems so real that when I go hiking, I always check above the trees for the black malignite walls of the Dark Castle, or the glittering opening of the quartzite cave.
Although, I don't know what I expected from the author of The Rats of NIMH.It had plot elements that reminded me of The Mysterious Benedict Society, but fundamentally the comparison that I think is most accurate is to The Princess and the Goblin.
This book continually hit notes that made me think of Curdie and Princess Irene.
I think The Silver Crown is a bit less of a masterwork, mostly because of resolution issues (it was done too fast and not well enough), but if you like George MacDonald I suspect you would like this.
She runs into a boy who steals, who takes Ellen to his "mother," who is thankfully a kindly old lady.
Then the boy disappears into the creepy castle-thing, so Ellen decides to save him.
Which leads to a whole bunch of adventures, including jail, drugging a jailer, conspiracies, an evil king, an sentient orb-thing, and brain-washed children who commit heinous crimes.But LO!
And her aunt shacks up with the mountain man and his dog in her giant house.So here's what we end up with: arson, murder, race riots, jail, drugs, physical and emotional trauma, food deprivation, robbery, and stranger danger.
She’s new to the neighborhood and doesn’t know anyone to ask for help – and decides to brave it on her own, I guess?She goes to the gas-station to get a map to help her get to her aunt (she plans on hitchhiking) and then a man there tells her he lives right nearby and will take her.
The king tells her that it’s controlling everyone in the school and they’re planning on spreading its influences to the whole world.When Ellen is put back in her cell, Jenny, who’s in the other cell, tells her she wants to escape after all.
Intended for kids 8 and older, “The Silver Crown” is the story of Ellen who wakes up on her tenth birthday to find a silver crown on her pillow.As Ellen already believes she is a queen, she takes the gift in stride and proudly wears it to the park.
Her house burns down, she witnesses a crime and she sets off on foot to find her Aunt Sara.The story follows Ellen as she makes friends with a boy named Otto and heads off on a hero’s quest.
Ellen does encounter an adult who tries to hurt her, so parents should be aware of that content.“The Silver Crown” was enjoyed by my family, and in fact my son wanted to read it again.
I enjoyed The Silver Crown very much.A couple things bother me: When the Big Bad Evil is revealed it's linked to then-contemporary real-world events like race riots and violence in Chicago.
I'm ruminating but since I just finished the book a few minutes ago I'm not sure how to articulate why this bothers me so much.
But it totally does."Chinaman," "Moslem hordes," and the comparison of a swarm of vicious attackers to "Indians." I know the book was written in like 1968 but I really feel more recent editions would be improved by the thoughtful excision of these references.
Nothing good would've been lost.---A few chapters in--refreshingly straightforward after Drood.
I started reading and was hooked by the end of the first chapter!When Ellen Carrol wakes on her tenth birthday to find a silver crown on her pillow, she leaves the house without waking her family and walks to her favorite spot in the park where she pretends to be a queen.
When Ellen realizes that her pursuers are from this school and want her crown because it has the power to overcome the brainwashing, she puts herself in great danger to save Otto and stop the school.
O'Brien wrote it.
I remember reading this book when I was 12 years old and my re-read leaves my memories intact.
O'Brien starts the book off with a bang, when Ellen awakes on her birthday and finds a silver crown waiting for her.
All those good memories of sitting under a tree in my grandma's garden in Delft, reading this book in one long perfect day, came back when I re-read it.The secret behind the silver crown isn't what you might expect (and there's a black crown to be dealt with), but O'Brien isn't your normal children's author.
I was surprisingly charmed by this children's book and wish I had discovered it when I was ten years

I really really really enjoyed reading this book.
David went and picked it up from the library...it is a book that his 5th grade teacher read to him and he remembered really liking it, so we decided to go pick it up and read it and see if it was something we would recommend for my brother to read.
it definitely is!
It was a very captivating read, and kept me interested up until the end.
This book has 2 endings.
MUCH BETTER, and better if read first!
Then if you must, go back and read the ending in chapter 31.

I really love this book. I first fell in love when I was around Ellen's age when I first read the book. For me this was one of those books that I repeatedly borrowed from the library and would read it over and over. I was recently reminded of this book and now finally own my own copy. Reading it again as an adult did not disappoint. The story is beautifully crafted and the adventure/mystery really pulls you in. I was disappointed with the alternate ending that apparently was written for American audiences but love it with the British ending.
I randomly remembered this one day as a book I loved reading in 5th grade. It has recently been re-printed, so I was able to buy it and read it again.This is still pretty good, but it was INCREDIBLE when I was 11 years old. I had a great school librarian that year, and I still enjoy re-reading the books she recommended to me all those years ago. I wish I could re-connect with her and thank her.
This book started out strong, but trailed off into an only moderately satisfying conclusion, and also a rather tangled concluding chapter (and alternate concluding chapter) which suggested that the author hadn't thought up any real justification for why the silver crown appears in the first place.Very unusual for a children's story, with the plot involving but not actually exploring terrorism/random violence, and wobbling between magic and SF.
In spite of careful planning, and excellent writing, the ending just doesn't work. My copy contains both the American ending (much longer and very convoluted) and the more precise and acceptable British ending. However the last 30% of this book just can't live up to the brilliance of the first 70%. Still a fascinating adventure for children to read. One that should cause them to think about what they might do in a bevy of difficult situations. For that alone, I recommend it.
It was exciting for me to find a new book of this type that I really loved---new not in that it was recently written, but a book written in the era of most books I loved as a girl that I had never discovered. It's the kind of self-contained fairy tale with a rooting in reality that I love---not an open-ended, overly formula-filled one like you would find today!
I loved this book as a child. It was read aloud to me at school and I read it on my own several times as well. I don't know what made me think of it now but I hope to reread it as an adult sometime soon.
this was one of my favorite books as a girl; i read it in sixth grade. what an impact: resourceful, brave and intelligent pre-teen girl main character, evil adults, and a diabolical sci-fi-ish machine. unfortunately, the pictured cover makes it look like a magic unicorn fantasy.
One of my favorite books! I just FOUND my 40-year-old copy and it welcomed me back like an old friend. There are child endangerment, magic, creepy strangers, and a strong girl main character who knows she's really a queen. Just. Fabulous. I strongly recommend it for 8 years old plus.
The Silver Crown is a beautiful, dazzling and slightly haunting story and something that everybody should consider reading. It's an excellent story and definitely worth reading.
Wonderful book for young female readers that dream of saving the world.
This is more of a 2 1/2 star rating. I loved it as a child and so the nostalgia in revisiting it was lovely but the plot definitely had a few holes and the writing could have been better.
One of my favorite books from age 9 - 11.
I love this book so much. I first read it when I was ten years old, and it is still one of my favorite books today. Although it is a little strange, it is an excellent and exciting story.
