https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25781157-the-nest
It wasn’t nearly pushed far enough to be satire; this is really the world she wanted to paint, which would have been fine, possibly even funny, as a satire but nothing more than that.The Nest also had too many superfluous characters and story lines!
(view spoiler)[This novel wasn't even really ABOUT "the nest." It stopped even being about that about 1/3 of the way through, and I nearly forgot what the commotion of the plot line was all about in the first place.
congratulations! semifinalist in goodreads' best fiction category 2016! each dysfunctional family is dysfunctional in its own way...the only word to describe this book is "breezy." and that's not to imply it is "unchallenging" or "unsophisticated," just that reading it is a truly pleasurable experience and it both carries you away and sucks you in until you look up and it's four in the morning and you've forgotten to eat dinner and you don't even care. it's a multiple POV novel revolving around
it's a multiple POV novel revolving around family money, new york, society, and disappointment - an updated edith wharton novel but with more disastrous hand jobs.
i don't know what else to say about this book; i don't wanna risk reducing its appeal with some dry regurgitation of plot that wouldn't convey the juicy gossipy fun of it, so i'm gonna be lazy with this review and just say "here's a fun breezy book that odds are good you'd enjoy." ***********************************************oh, man - i stayed up until four in the morning reading this last night.

If I had to describe this book in one word it would be "shallow".
There was no depth to the characters, the plot, the problem the characters faced- just pure surface level, mind-numbing, shallow reading.
I think Sweeney made a huge mistake by having so many different POVs- this took away from the main story and really did nothing for plot progression and character development.
A lot of the smaller plots could have been left out to make room for the bigger stories.
If you are looking for a shallow read, this book might help.
He hesitated. Above him, an ear-splitting screech. He looked up to see three enormous crows, perched on the bare branches of one of the few trees that had already dropped its leaves. They were all squawking at once, as if they were arguing about his next move. Directly beneath, in the midst of the stark and barren branches and at the base of a forked limb, a mud-brown leafy mass. A nest. Jesus. Leo checked the time and started walking. When Leo Plumb, 46, and very unhappily married, enjoying t
The good news, for Leo anyway, is that there is a considerable family inheritance left by his late father, which can be raided for emergencies.
They are very interested in knowing when Leo is going to re-feather the nest he had just raided like a raccoon in the night.
The potential absence of his bailout money from The Nest is a blow, so when a shady opportunity presents itself, he has to decide where he is willing to draw the line.In this ensemble cast, we follow the siblings, along with a smattering of others, through their travails, and see them come to grips, or not, with the possible loss of a nest egg they had all been counting on for a long time.
Usually I’m the curmudgeon who doesn’t like a book that everyone else is cuckoo over.
Yes, the characters are ordinary but they are also believable and even interesting, which drew me in.The thing about siblings is that there is this built-in attachment (after all, you usually live together for the first 18 years of your life), but the connection isn’t necessarily strong.
We only barely get inside the character’s heads, but the author is so insightful, I felt like I knew what made the characters tick.
The buzz is that the author got a million dollars for this book.
Though I liked the book a lot, it’s just not a million-dollar baby.
The Nest centers around four adult siblings fighting over an inheritance that has been spent after one of them is involved in an accident.
I can see why people may be disappointed with this book, the characters all have multiple flaws but for me that made the book more interesting.
I enjoy having characters that make me feel conflicted.
The writing was excellent also.
There were way too many characters and I felt that the ending was anti climatic but I still enjoyed it.
Might be because I really just liked the authors writing style and complex characters though because the plot wasn't anything fantastic.

A teen boy getting caught with his pants down, by the girls religious father, might have consequences and be embarrassing...such as what happened in the book "For the Love of Money", by Christopher Meades, but a 46 year old married man who has been avoiding his wife, who was barely speaking to him....( and who could blame her ...after catching Leo fondling the babysitter weeks earlier?), is beyond embarrassing and beyond a slap on the face from his wife Victoria.
The siblings mother, executor of the will, ( The Nest), takes a chunk of the inheritance money to pay for Leo's rehab and pay off Matilda Rodriquez.
I was excited to read this one because it fits right in with my own choice of writing: family dramas.
I am disappointed in one of the 4 children especially since I don't feel we got a good ending for this person's post-book life.
But still, this is a good read and I will look for more by the author.
but that's when a book is good; it makes you dislike characters.
Just above a good book, but not as stellar as I'd hoped.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
While the writing is fine and the prologue gets the reader off to a hell of a start, this story about a dysfunctional family and their individual personal reasons to procure funds from a promised trust turned out to be a slow and tedious read that just kind of fell flat (for me) all the way to the non-eventful end.During the first half of the novel, we are slowly introduced to family members (and other players) that (for me) was almost like reading a collection of unrelated short stories; and just when I would start to get really interested, we would meet yet another unfamiliar character or revert back to one I could hardly remember.Anyway, am sorry to say this debut was not what I expected and just flat out wore me down with too many players of which I felt zero emotional connection; but hey, what do I know.....THE NEST made it to the semi-finals in the Goodread's Best Fiction category.
This was a great read about four adult siblings all awaiting their share of the NEST (inheritance from their father). They aren't really involved in each other's life but as things don't pan out as expected, they come to appreciate each other and become close. There are also many other stories within the main story that really give depth to this novel. It had a lot of humor and compassion and was a joy to read.
I don't understand all the hype and praise around this book but, like "Fates and Furies," I stuck with it in hope of some kind of redeeming ending that never came.
I listened to the book on audio and maybe that made a difference, but I didn't find the characters or writing comic at all.
Also, instead of everyone being a horrible person in this book, the Plumb siblings are actually surrounded by other people who seem really nice and considerate, so then you just end up feeling really bad for those people.
Melody and Jack, in particular, are relying upon their share of "The Nest" to end their financial struggles and help them move their lives in the direction they are hoping.There's one challenge to this, however.
The Plumb siblings are apoplectic at the thought they might not get the financial support they were counting on, and cannot believe that once again, Leo has let them down.Leo promises to make good on the money, and asks for a few months to put together a plan.
I'm about 15% through this audio and I just can't. I've already backed up a few times because just as soon as I get used to one character, yet another is introduced. Perhaps if I cared about the ones I already met I would continue, but I do not. DNF, no review, no rating-just my thoughts.
How had they raised children who were so impractical yet still so entitled?"The Nest" is a trust fund, promised as a reward whenever the youngest of the four siblings turns forty.
Each of the "children" expects to receive $500,000.
They've all been waiting, counting the days until they can relax, breathe freely and have their debts wiped away.
Hey, whoever said life is fair?While their mother insists the fund was meant to be only a "modest assist" and not a true inheritance, her children are at loose ends.
They were counting on that money!
Baby boomers are expected to play their part by succumbing to the looming wave of death — the Greatest Degeneration — and bequeathing some $16 trillion to their children over the next three decades.
But for upper-middle-class Americans balancing mortgage payments, tuition bills and retirement plans on a brittle tower of monthly paychecks, this bounty looms with the promise of salvation.If you find yourself overanticipating such financial relief, take a break from the death watch to read Cynthia D’Aprix Sweeney’s debut novel, “The Nest,” a comedy of filial greed and affection.
. To read the rest of this review, go to The Washington Post:https://www.washingtonpost.com/entert...
I really enjoyed this dysfunctional family drama.
Siblings counting on a promised family inheritance, called "The Nest," come unglued when it is revealed that the trust fund money has been depeleted to bail out their feckless older brother.
In additional to the 4 siblings and their parents, there are interesting side characters that come into play to help reveal the true characters of the main players.
It felt right to me.If you enjoy well-written family dramas and aren't put off by unlikeable characters, give this one a shot - loved it!

Though this book wasn't terrible, it certainly did not come close to wowing me.The Nest is about a group of trust fund children who have grown up depending on the money they will receive on the youngest's 40th birthday, but these plans are complicated when the oldest son royally screws up and their funds are dramatically drained to cover his folly.
The Nest is more of a character study surrounding these 4 siblings who are each despicable in their own way.
I've read books with very character driven writing, but this just did not work.
This book follows four wealthy siblings fighting over "The Nest"-- an account with a significant amount of money to be split amongst them once the youngest turned 40.
Right before this happens, Leo- the oldest and least responsible gets in an accident that rocks The Nest and the siblings' relationship.I find myself really enjoying mini-sagas dealing with the relationships between groups of characters.
She was humble and forgiving- the clear opposite of the leading man- Leo. I would recommend this one to those that enjoy a good family driven character study about a somewhat wealthy white family.
Character driven contemporary. It wasn't memorable but not bad!
I LOVED THIS BOOK! Definitely on my top 10 best books ever.
My first by this author and I enjoyed it very much. I became totally engrossed in the Plumb family and their partners. It was interesting how even the less important characters like Walker were still totally fleshed out and were charming enough that I wanted good things to happen to them.Of course as in real life not just good things did happen. By the end I think everyone had adjusted to their lot and the family had drawn closer.This was an absorbing and interesting read and I would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a well written family drama.
Perhaps the most funniest of all is to describe this particular New York family as dysfunctional.
What is the perfect family after all?
We all have our moment and our eccentricities, yet we love to elevate ourselves above other people by declaring them dysfunctional.
Matilda is taught to use a mirror to scratch her absent foot.
Metaphorically it works like that in a family as well.
It nurtures forgiveness and trust and love and bonding.We all have our merry moments at family gatherings.
There's real challenges for real people with real solutions and in the end we become part of a perfect idiosyncratic family!
The four adult Plumb siblings have spent their whole lives waiting to receive the money from a trust fund, which will hit the day the youngest of them turns 40.
Smart investing has caused the fund to balloon past their expectations and they’ve each, in their own way, remained in a bit of arrested development while waiting for their money.
The remaining three siblings are bitter that Leo’s recklessness has cost them so much money, and they want him to either forfeit his share or pay them back pronto.
• a few too many minor characters broke the focus a bit 
A nest egg, set up by the Plumb family's father, is not meant to be hatched until the youngest of the brood turns 40.
Except that it was always, completely and totally, about the money.'The amount of money in the nest turns out to be substantially less than what it should have been.
The Plumb family, Leo, Jack, Bea, and Melody, are all ready to '...
It didn't seem to fit with the tone of the rest of the story, and (view spoiler)[for me, it smacked of sap.
Turned icky.
But I won't, the rest of it was swell.
(hide spoiler)]
I don't often like the big "summer" novels but I loved this addictive story of the dysfunctional Plumb siblings.
The characters are not always likeable they are mostly self absorbed but I couldn't stop caring about them.
Leo, the oldest brother, makes a really bad decision to get behind the wheel intoxicated and has a terrible car accident and ends up in rehab.
The cost of this is paid for out of the "nest" which is the siblings trust fund that they don't receive until the youngest one turns 40 which is rapidly approaching.
I almost didn't read this but I'm so glad that I did.
It was the perfect summer fun read.
When Melody, the youngest, was sixteen Leonard decided to set up a trust fund (like the one he didn't get?) for his children, an inheritance that he determined would merely be "a modest nest egg, conservatively invested...
The funds would not be available until Melody turned forty." So begins the novel, "The Nest" by Cynthia D'Aprix Sweeney, a brilliant composition about an inheritance and its effect on the adults meant to receive it.
The lives changed by that money are another story within the story, gracefully unfolding beside the angst of the Plumbs'.Inheritances, and trust funds in particular, are tricky.
I just didn’t care for this book and it fell short for me.The Nest is more of a character study surrounding four siblings who are each despicable in their own ways.
It all seemed stereotypical, boring and that's why I found this book to be a snooze fest.Another thing that I had issue with was the amount of characters and side characters in this book.
But I digress, I liked the characters of Bea and Stephanie the most without ruining the outcome for readers.Honestly, if this wasn’t on my March Book Club list, I would have scrolled right past.
