https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93380.The_Boxcar_Children_1_4
I remembered loving these books as a child, especially the first and so recommended it to my 8 year old.
That was 2 months ago.
We read the first 4 together, she has read another 15 on her own.
She says she loves them!Of course, it happens that #19 is the last written by Gertrude Chandler, so perhaps the tone will change.
my daughter likes the mysteries, the adventure, and says she prefers the "historical" stories like Surprise Island, the Bicycle Mystery, Benny Uncovers a Mystery, Treehouse Mysery, Woodshed Mystery, etc.I like the way these children are always positive and in action, polite and work together well.
My Rating/Reviewing MOWhen I was younger I hated reading. Bless my mothers heart she struggled so much to teach me. Then we picked up the boxcar children and started reading them out loud to each other.I fell in love with reading after this and that summer devoured everything I could get my hands on. This is the story of a group of siblings that find themselves living in a boxcar. It is amazing to see their resourcefulness and loyalty to each other. They even solve a mystery. I recommend these books to any young reader!
Other than some outdated words that you wouldnt say nowadays, still a keeper.
the boxcar children are a group of kids that ran away from there grandparents.
But thats because they didn't know that there grandpa was rich.
there names are henry,violet,billy, and jessie.
they ran away and found a boxcar in the woods so they lived in it.
there parents died somehow I don't know.
So how they meet there grandpa is henry ran a race and won and the one who gave him the prize was his grandpa.
Their grandpa recognized them and got them to live with him after they realized he was rich.
then they lived happily ever after the end.
These books were my first reads from a public library.
I still remember my mother walking me into the library for the first time and helping me pick out some books.
I remember that I initially liked these books because they were about children having an adventure on their own.
We used to build forts in the back yard and on my grandpa's farm, so when I read about these kids living in a boxcar, I could immediately imagine what it must be like to make a home for yourself in that way.
I kept reading them because the kids got to solve mysteries.
I grew up loving these books. They were a staple in my reading list. My daughter brought one home from the library recently and I hope she can find the story as interesting as I did in my youth. A great series.
As a child, I read these first 4 books of the series, over and over. My elementary school librarian joked that the library's copies might as well have been mine.I hope my own daughter will find the same enjoyment in these books when she is older.
I loved the first one, but it stopped being fun once they stopped living in a train and started being millionaires.
Elementary school.. I loved these books.. they let my little self go on an adventure .. I still remember the thrill :)
I loved these books growing up and always got so excited for book fairs so I could buy the next one! I think a re-read is in order to relive these books of my childhood!
I really loved these books when I was younger, now I can read them in about 30 minutes but they are great for a young reader or just a quick read.
My very favorite series as a child. I especially loved the first book. My sisters and I used to play "Boxcar Children." :) My kids have all loved these books as well...the original series that is.
very nice book and be thankful you don't live in a boxcar
Then they see that a storm is about to come so Jessi asked the the woman if they could stay here for the night and they would work for them in exchange for letting them stay their.
The woman agrees and let them stay the night.
I love books that contain an adventure and very descriptive text .This book contains black and white illustrations and not much detail.
Even though I am still in 6th grade and still read this book .If you love adventure and outsmarting people you will love this book.
The boxcar children was a very pleasant and interesting book to read.
That's what makes the book interesting.
One quote that I admired from the book was "He could not remember, but he liked Mr. Alden very much.
All the children liked them because he was kind to them." I just liked Mr. Alden so much because he's just so nice and I use this quote to show that.
But young or not, everyone should read this book because we all need role models like this in life no matter how old you are.
This book is geared to elementary age children, its great for helping kids learn to love reading. I loved these books because they have a good plot and the children in this book are self-reliant, positive, family oriented and very hard workers - and that is refreshing to read about these days! I think kids reading this book will enjoy the adventures and maybe even learn to find creative solutions to their problems and help each other like the siblings in this book do. Loved it!
The old language throws me off a bit. Gertrude used the word "queer" a lot for "strange" but since slang has evolved it now means something rude. My son is too young to understand the complications of the word.
I read all the Boxcar Children books as a kid and LOVED them. They are an awesome series that are entertaining for children. I highly recommend them. Have such fond memories. Cannot wait to read and/or share them with my grandchildren one day.
Boxcar children:one stormy night 4 children were standing in front of a bakery no one knew them or where they came from .they ran away from there grandpa Alden who is a rich man .but soon in a strange place they find a old boxcar and live there but. Will they ever find a home?
i rile like this book
Mason's turn. I don't think I'll ever get tired of reading these aloud.
Cute series.
Good books! Very adventurous and exciting.
These were childhood favorites of mine, and so I was quite pleased to learn that my local library had them. They're actually still great reads; very wholesome, and good for all ages.
my favorite character is Henrey. I would not change the ending because it is really good.what surprised me was when Benny found a dog.
It was a good book 4 stars. It was about 4 kids and they have to survive on their own. They come alone food, a home a dog named watch. What will Henry have for a job
Set in the Midwest in the 1940s, The Boxcar Children by Gertrude Chandler Warner is the story of four orphaned children, who are running away from their grandfather and are looking for a place to live.
Dr. Moore did not call the grandfather about where the children were living.
Dr.Moore then called Mr. Alden to come over his house to see the kids.
Henry figures out that Mr. Alden is his grandfather and tells the other kids.
Dr. Moore told the kids that he was the mysterious noise outside the boxcar one night.The children decide to stay at the grandfather’s house.
Delightful reading for children. A time-tested classic bit of fanciful literature.
I'm reminded that self sufficiency is a worthy goal and the fun of discovery is everywhere around us.In book one, the kids have lost their parents and find the boxcar to live in.
They assert their independence, setting up a household in the barn, and fill their days exploring and making a "museum" with the finds from nature and some ruins.In book three, the kids go camping in Maine with some young adult cousins.
While other books have had unknowns and suspense, this seems to be the first one that sets the story as a mystery.All in all, these kids are independent and empowered.
I never read these as a child, though the initial idea of four orphans making their home in a boxcar would have greatly appealed to me so I'm not sure how I ended up missing them.
The children are also TOO well behaved and kind and gracious to hold much interest for modern kids, except for perhaps the very youngest readers.
I think its quite funny that the editions I read, which were published in the 80s and 90s, show kids with "updated" clothes on the covers even though the books were written in the late 40s and 50s and the illustrations show them wearing clothes from that time period!
