https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/238367.The_Sleepwalkers
The translation is by the Muirs, of Kafka fame, who render here another superb and elegant version for those of us who cannot, sadly, read the book in its native tongue.The novel is divided into three parts, each exploring an aspect of the struggles of different classes and people in Germany to deal with the flux in morals, mammon and modernity as the twentieth century was dawning and the old world was passing on.
Finire questo libro è stata una liberazione.
E mi dispiace, perchè la prima parte mi era piaciuta.
Poi però andando avanti, la lettura per me si è appesantita, le digressioni filosofiche davano l'idea di uno stacco troppo netto con il resto della storia, non scorreva.
Ho fatto fatica, ho avuto più volte il desiderio di mollarlo ma la curiosità di capire dove volesse andare a parare l'autore è stata più forte.
L'idea di base trovo sia vincente: l'evoluzione dell'impero guglielmino attraverso tre personaggi: Pasenow, Esch e Huguenau.
Ma pur ammettendo l'indiscutibile valore dell'opera qualcosa per me non ha funzionato.
Tre stelle solo per la piacevolezza con cui ho affrontato la prima parte.
Scritto tra le due guerre, rappresenta il disorientamento dell’individuo di fronte a una società che non riconosce e in cui non si riconosce più.Sono tre le reazioni e tre le fasi di questo processo, incarnate dai tre protagonisti del romanzo: von Pasenow, Esch e Hugenau.Nel primo e nel secondo libro, pur con una differenza, i sonnambuli sono coloro che si adattano a vivere in quella zona d’ombra tra un passato che non esiste più e un futuro ancora in embrione, ricorrendo a convenzioni, residui inconsistenti del passato.
Qui si percorre un’altra tappa del cammino che dovrebbe portare l’uomo a capire e prepararlo a una rinascita dopo la necessaria distruzione”.In questa parte il saggismo si sovrappone spesso alla narrazione.
There are some books that are not much read but nonetheless they serve as a kind of Bethlehem star f
Fossimo ai tempi del bookcrossing, lo abbandonerei sul sedile di un regionale con dedica a chi lo trova e invito a farne un uso prudente.
In mancanza lo infili nello zaino se si ritrova come vicino di casa un germanista a cui scampanellare dopo cena per chiedere spiegazioni: nessuna nota esplicativa infatti la aiuterà a districarsi tra mille riferimenti che le rimarranno oscuri e comunque infastidire il vicino dopo cena la diverte, confessi.
Nota per chi non capisce le metafore: nessun bull terrier è stato lanciato dal Calatrava.
A little play in which the author seems content to let his characters finish each other’s sentences was particularly nauseating.But onto the good: Reading the Pasenow and Esch sections one could almost conclude that adulthood is a plague in which giant children have had the misfortune of taking themselves seriously.
I - ფონ პაზენოვი - რომანტიკა II - ეში - ანარქია III - ჰუგუენაუ - საქმოსნობა სარჩევის გადახედვისთანავე გამიჩნდა აზრი, რომ საქმე თავისებურად ნიცშეანურ წიგნთან გვქონდა და ეს ხედვა ბოლოს უფრო განმიმტკიცდა, ოღონდ ერთი გამონაკლისით.
ფონ პაზენოვი აქლემის მდგომარეობას ასახავს.
ტრადიცია, სამხედრო უნიფორმა, რომელიც მისთვის ჯავშანია და იცავს, უბრალო, მაგრამ მტკიცე რელიგიური ხედვა, რომელიც მასში თანდათან უფრო ღრმავდება.
მას ჰქონდა შანსი გათავისუფლების, მაგრამ ვერ ან არ გამოიყენა.
თავისუფლებას, მისგან გამოწვეულ ტრაგიზმს ამ წიგნში ბერტრანდი განასახიერებს.
იგი იზიდავს და ამავდროულად აშინებს კიდეც ფონ პაზენოვს.
ბერტრანდი მარცხდება, თავს იკლავს.
იგი არც გერმანელია, არც ფრანგია, არც კომუნისტია, არც ანარქისტი და ამავდროულად ყველა და ყველაფერია.
"The Sleepwalkers" takes on the fragmentation of German culture between 1888 and 1918, with an middle act in 1903.
Act I, in 1888, narrates in the literary style of the late 19th century, the tribulations of the military aristocrat Joachim von Pasenow who grapples with his dictatorial father, his manipulative friend Bertrand, and his superior older brother, conveniently dead in battle.
Act III takes place as the defeated German monarchy descends into chaos, uniting von Pasenow, now a comfortable bourgeois, and Esch, who runs a newspaper, as they confront someone even less appealing, the murderous, larcenous deserter Hugeneau, who bests both of them.
With brilliant characters and scenes that seem to fly right from the pages, The Sleepwalkers is a very original and interesting book.
(Quanto era avanti quest’uomo!) 1888 – Pasenow o il Romanticismo è il primo libro, nonché primo simbolico quadro storico nel quale incontriamo l’aristocratico Joachim von Pasenow, giovane ufficiale prussiano, combattuto fra il rimanere ancorato alle certezze dei valori codificati della sua divisa militare - che iniziano a sgretolarsi, a perdere solidità senza che lui se ne avveda, sonnambulo, appunto - e l’entrare nei panni borghesi di proprietario terriero e sposo di una donna idealizzata a Madonna.
This is a bit crude, but essentially it felt like a book written by a dude for dudes about dudes.
It was the kind of book that I felt like an "intellectual" guy would use to show me that he "understands" and "appreciates" literature.
Still, it was much better than say, Infinite Jest, which to me is the pinnacle of the aforementioned male intellectual literature-ego.I did appreciate the structure of the novel; and like all Austrian novels of this type, it does a wonderful job describing the transition into the modern world and in many ways it explains the splintering of Europe over the course of the 20th century.
Otherwise, book 3 is far and away the most direct and interesting part of the novel, a careful symphony of characters and lives reflecting in some way the concept of people sleepwalking through the world.
The first two books are heavy going, "realistic" narratives completely laden down with internalized explications and motivations: again, something that many readers love, but which impresses me as woefully overdone.
Overwrought (books 1 and 2) or lean (book 3), these are smart investigations of life in the late 19th and early 20th centuries in the German-speaking world.
,,Сомнамбулите‘‘ на Херман Брох ил преждевременното ми екстрадиране към безкрайносттаКазват, че каквото сам си направиш, никой друг не може да ти го направи. И (за пръв път от много време) при последващ случай ще гласувам доверие на хората, макар и да не ми се случва често. Преди една седмица по време на приятелска вечер с Милена от ,,Жанет 45‘‘ и Христо просто откраднах една книга. Точно това се случи – подадена от Милена към Христо, ,,Сомнамбулите‘‘ на Херман Брох, с адски добре издържана кори
‎''...сомнамбулството на безкрайността я е взело във властта си и вече никога няма да я пусне.''	Цикълът от три взаимосвързани романа (макар че за връзката между тях човек разбира едва при прочит на третата част) представлява своебразно пътуване от 1888-а, през 1903-а, до 1918-а, а именно през онези периоди, в които се осъществява преходът от отшумяващия романтизъм в края на XIX век към ,,деловитостта‘‘ на съвременната епоха.
Не мога да рекламирам, мога само да изразя искреното си объркване и усещане за стремеж след тази книга да прочета още, да знам повече, защото явно наистина нищо не знам.
In the novel Broch explains the decline of values beginning with Joachim von Pasenow's hesitation between a lower-class mistress and a noble fiance in the first part.
The story ends in Joachim's wedding night when both he and Elisabeth are afraid of a possible physical act of love and they finally find deliverance in his falling asleep.Pasenow is sure of his virtues and their meaning.
He swindles and murders without remorse and his dealings bring him finally to the zero point of values, a state when old values have disappeared and the new ones have not been created.
‘Amid a blurring of all forms, in a twilight of apathetic uncertainty brooding over a ghostly world, man like a lost child gropes his way by the help of a small frail thread of logic through a dream landscape that he calls reality and that is nothing but a nightmare to him.’ (p. 373) I read Joyce’s  Ulysses  a few years ago. I was glad that I finished the damn thing, but was quite unimpressed. Was the towering novel of the modernist movement just about utter crap? I’ve read analyses of the nove
To paraphrase The Dark Knight, The Sleepwalkers is the novel that modernism deserves, but Ulysses was the one it needed.
To illustrate the turmoil and confusion in fin-de-siecle-ish Germany, Broch paints Esch with less consistent values than von Pasenow.
Esch, who had discovered faith in God through Protestantism, and von Pasenow, who tried to uphold chivalry and honor, are debased and murdered by the man who knew what he wanted and sought it without regard to anything except his own selfishness: the novel prefigures the arrival of the Nazi, and does so excellently.
Writing this review already even though I am just a few pages in; but already I can tell this is going to be a fabulous read.
The topics treated so far; and the refined, highly-polished prose...this looks like an extremely savory dish.
The author has a voice very much like some of my favorite European writers: Thomas Mann and perhaps Stendhal.
It's a novel of manners and psychology, a cultural history.
Plus, the topic is Germany--the most savage, the most repulsive, the most fascinating of nations.
For the triumphant system will embrace the whole of the world, it will overwhelm all other values and exterminate them as a cloud of locusts lays waste a field.But man, who was once the image of God, the mirror of a universal value created by himself [...] is helplessly caught in the mechanism of the autonomous value-systems, and can do nothing but submit to the particular value that has become his profession, he can do nothing but become a function of that value -a specialist, eaten up by the radical logic of the value into whose jaws he has fallen.Note 3: Insanity and irrationality in The SleepwalkersA great many characters either become insane, are borderline insane or have psychotic episodes in the trilogy, starting with the first character who appears in the book, Herr Helmuth von Pasenow, Joachim´s father for whom people “...felt an extraordinary and inexplicable repulsion when they saw him coming at them in their streets of Berlin.
Die kunnen er ook op puzzelen, allerlei diepzinnigs uIt het boek halen en daar later over schrijven.
Soms kreeg ik wel een idee van de drie tijdgeesten die Die Schlafwandler moet verbeelden, maar vaker vond ik het boek een gewrocht, onpersoonlijk en gekunsteld, in elk geval niet in mijn favoriete stijl geschreven.
Naar ik heb begrepen is het boek begonnen als een of meer novellen en is Broch er later teksten tussen gaan plakken.
Dat ik het toch heb volgehouden komt door mijn aard, waar ik veel aan te danken heb, maar die mij ook wel eens dwarszit.
This is my second reading of this masterpiece. I continue to be amazed at how these novels transition from romantic nostalgia to deep philosophical modernism. With Broch, one reaches the boundary of what can be done with literary fiction.
The second part tells the story of a book-keeper that quits his job for "moral" reasons and ends up working in a theatre, according to him, to save a girl.
He also makes an interesting point in telling you what the characters are NOT thinking some times, and manages to get in his personal opinions about the decadence in society without them seeming something external from the book.
It has complicated concepts, but very interesting ones (I have been using a lot of quotes from this book in my daily life lately), and I do recommend it for people who want to re-evaluate the way they think.
We reach the end of a paragraph so original it’s familiar, as if the writer were transcribing our own mind.
“And because horses, who although docile are yet somewhat insane creatures, exert on many human beings a kind of magical influence,” he writes, and I’m ready for what comes next, having always known this about horses.Like other modernists (and other Austrians) Broch heightens things beyond their usual scope, but only because we all do.
It isn't just that the book, like this one, held in high favor by luminaries such as Milan Kundera, is kind of terrible, it's painful more because I never realized that my tastes were so compromised by wide-eyed, inept youthfulness.
I was probably brimming over with bombast, crouched in a corner of a coffee shop reading this book, holding it up with caffeine-sickened, trembling hands trying to make sense out of it in my delirium.
And it is this banal meaninglessness of it that probably drew me to it.Three bland, unmoving stories that correspond little to their direct, titled themes.
My impression at this moment, having only just completed reading it, is that Hermann Broch's THE SLEEPWALKERS, a sprawling trilogy (of sorts) and the author's literary debut, is almost certainly the greatest novel of the first half of the twentieth century.
“Disintegration of Values” enters a somewhat Wittgensteinian territory when it begins to formulate social relations around "value-making subjects" and "world-formations." It is actually the eponymous self-seeking Realist (and rationalism in general) the is framed as a threat to collective value-system.
But overall it feels much like a big complex structure that’s ready to break down to pieces in any moment when there’s not so good story to support it.
He set up main characters whose only main focus is to keep hating and sneering at each other, while they might symbolize the clashing between different ideals and values, or in his words, the disintegration of European system value in time of World War I and the revolutions, it actually goes on for far too very long.
And everything is covered too much in the haze, like a dream, a sleepwalking that doesn’t seem to try to evoke any feelings.
We start with a German military man, bound by traditiin and with little confusion about what he is meant to do...
Then we have a pseudo anarchist, who desperately wants something to believe in but who secretly fears that all of it is a hoax and that only sensual pleasure and pain are reality.
Last, we have a man who sees reality for what it is-- a shifting morass of opportunities to benefit oneself at the expense of others, using the cynical ideals that even they don't believe in but must nonetheless follow.Between these macro plot lines, there are countless delightfully penetrating observations into human psychology and relationships.
The first two parts are pretty cool because theyre about these neurotic guys trying to get laid, but I dont even know what the third part is about. Goodreads staff please add 3 instead of 1 to my '2013 books read' because this is a trilogy
i can't understand why a great writer like Broch doesn't get the same recognition his contemporaries Mann or Hesse or even Musil got . a great book .
I've heard the third part is amazing, but I barely made it through the first part and the second part...well...that's where I just had to stop.
If you try to bring down the exploitative capitalist economic system, you'll probably end up doing more harm than good.
I read this after the Death of Virgil, and was a bit disappointed. While DoV is an explosion of radical freedom, the Sleepwalkers is a boring old novel.
