https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7887.Four_Dolls
However, her doll stories are all quality work, as she gets inside the minds of her characters, from spoiled brats to unloved "difficult" children to the bereft.
It contains a story I searched fruitlessly for as a child in the 1960s, and now I know why."Impunity Jane" is the story of a little bisque doll that was sold for fivepence halfpenny in the 19th century.
A doll that you can't play with is no better than a book that's not meant to be read.
If I ever decide to get married and have kids, these are the books I'm going to read aloud to them.
Charming, old-fashioned doll stories, especially The Story of Holly and Ivy and Candy Floss.
It’s only when her great-grandmother intervenes that Elizabeth starts to be able to do things for herself.The Story of Holly and Ivy is about a little girl who is an orphan.
There’s also a question of stranger danger as she chooses her family for herself, this is mitigated somewhat by the fact that she’s in the care of a policeman, but it still worried me a little.The final story Candy Floss has a little girl learn a lesson when she steals a doll from its rightful owner, Jack, who works as part of a traveling fair.There are some places where American children may have difficulty with vocabulary as there are British words used.
If you're like me, you're thinking, "Dolls?
I appreciate The Velveteen Rabbit as a children's classic, but it's not one of my favourites.
These stories, though, are pure magic.
Two of them are Christmas stories, and the other two, interestingly, are about boys and dolls (because boys can like dolls without being "sissies", although you don't see that message enough).
Anyway, these are amazing stories.
My favourite is "The Story of Holly & Ivy", which you can get as a separate, gorgeously illustrated book.
The collection of all four stories is sadly out of print, though.
This was a real find. If you have a daughter in the appropriate age group (5-7 or thereabouts), a book like this is as good as gold. All four stories are very involving, have truly emotional moments, and encourage children--without heavy-handedness--to think about moral issues like greed and loyalty. Godden draws her characters with great imagination and feeling.Note: The book has quite a few nice post-Narnia Pauline Baynes illustrations.
What a great book to read with my six-year-old daughter; I'm so glad we found this at the library. This collection is out-of-print; it is a shame these tales are being allowed to fade into obscurity as they really should be considered classics of children's literature.
Read this when Sarah was little. I absolutely LOVE that the story of Impunity Jane (which also is my favorite of the four stories)has a male protagonist. Written with Godden's lovely style this little book is a terrific read aloud or read alone for both boys and girls.
Not my favorite, but my four-year-old LOVED it!
Rumer Godden is wonderful!
What a lovely book. Dolls and other toys that talk with each other and wish for boys and girls to give them a home.
