https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11442.Fires
And it ought to go without saying that the encouragement must always be honest encouragement and never hype.” ---------- If you are a writer and meet up with anybody who discourages you, doesn’t matter if that person is a teacher, peer, family member or friend (so called), make it a point never to share you writing again with that person, no exceptions.
Come se fosse addirittura pericoloso.La famiglia Carver nel 1950.Nonostante si sia mantenuto per anni insegnando scrittura creativa, sembrava negato per fare l’insegnante: non insisteva, non asseriva con forza, preferiva ascoltare che tenere lezioni, non prendeva neanche in considerazione l’idea che tra i suoi compiti ci fosse quello di scoraggiare uno studente non portato, non sapeva stroncare, era profondamente empatico con tutto quello che i suoi studenti gli sottoponevano.
La cosa a Carver proprio non piaceva e all’età di 13 o 14 anni annunciò che non avrebbe più risposto se fosse stato chiamato così.
1943) (a quem "Fogos" é dedicado) e Raymond Carver (1938 – 1988) em 1984.Raymond Carver (1938 – 1988) foi o escritor que me ensinou o prazer da literatura minimalista, os contos curtos como forma de arte literária única e indissociável da palavra meticulosa e angustiada, das vidas quotidianas descritas nas suas singularidades e nas suas idiossincrasias, geralmente num determinado contexto social e económico, com mulheres, homens e crianças, através das suas vivências próprias, marcadamente realistas, que vivem e sobrevivem no limiar da tristeza e da solidão, quase sempre pessoas comuns, isoladas ou marginalizadas.Destaco a leitura indispensável de três das suas obras literárias: ” De Que Falamos Quando Falamos de Amor”, ” Queres fazer o favor de te calares?” e ” Catedral”.
Nos Ensaios, Raymond Craver, descreve alguns episódios familiares e expõe algumas ideias sobre a sua escrita - ”Em meados dos anos 60, descobri que estava a ter dificuldade em concentrar a minha atenção na ficção narrativa longa.
Raymond Carver is that straight-to-the-point author who does not use too many flowery words to impress any reader. He keeps it short yet still exquisite, creative (sexy even). I think his application of real-life situations involving family and marriage issues could be relatable to both young adult and adult readers because of his easy writing style. But don't be fooled, because he also got me thinking to every short story ending. :)A few poems fell flat but overall, essays and short stories in this collection won my heart. He just made it as one of my fave authors.
In many ways, this selection of Raymond Carver’s essays, poems and stories is the perfect introduction to this iconic literary figure. Unlike other collections, where readers are only given his finely crafted fiction or poetry to decipher, here we are first presented with four essays in which Carver speaks about his development as a writer and the factors the drove him to create.  Next, we are given a sample of Carver’s poems, which although not too varied in style or trope, are nonetheless beau
Unlike other collections, where readers are only given his finely crafted fiction or poetry to decipher, here we are first presented with four essays in which Carver speaks about his development as a writer and the factors the drove him to create.
Consequently, he captures the emotional truth of the moment, without distracting the reader with the lurid tale of her lie, as well as allowing the story to be applicable to many different troubling points in a romantic relationship.
Even though it is she who is telling the story, readers are still left with much more insight into the husband than the wife, and she is portrayed as a one-note character driven by an inexplicable paranoia.
Carver' ı sevenleri onun dünyasına daha yakınlaştıracak henüz kalemi ile mest olmamış okurun ise ilk tanışma için tercih edebileceği bir çalışma.
Ancak bu kitabı esas olarak yazı ile haşır neşir okura önermek isterim.
Kitabın girişindeki ilk iki yazı ve son bölümdeki röportaj kısmında kendi yazma sürecine dair anlattıkları, özellikle yazıya yeni başlayanlar için önemli ipucları barındırıyor bence.Carver'ı ilk kez okumanın tehlikeli bir yanı var.
Onun öykülerini okurken arkadan hep şöyle bir düşünce geçer; " ne var ki bunu bende yazabilirim".
Ben bu ne var ki yi ve ne olduğunu bir türlü anlayamamayı övgü olarak kullanıyorum ve halen merak ediyorum nasıl güzelleştiriyor bu adam sıradan olanı?
(It was Landa's first.) We think  we like gentler, more thoughtful, more attentive men.
But when the car breaks down or the hurricane is coming or the lawn needs to be mowed, we want burly competent men.
In his essays, poems, stories Carver writes about how real living, breathing men are like, a combination of characteristics, something way beyond the stereotypes.
I got caught up in competence, articulation, awareness of body, mind, and spirit in these essays.
A person who works with their body strength, muscle memory, amd tools would have to be aware like a yogi/yogini.
And like yogis and yoginis--strong and competent.
Il panettierePoi Pancho Villa venne in città,impiccò il sindacoe invitò a cena il vecchio e deboleco
I only wish Carver had written even more.There's this line in the essay "Fires," in which he writes about his influences, he tells a story of being at the laundromat one day and having one of those moments where you see all too clearly just who you are: "But I remember thinking at that moment, amid the feelings of helpless frustration that had me close to tears, that nothing - and, brother, I mean nothing - that ever happened to me on this earth could come anywhere close, could possibly be as important to me, could make as much difference, as the fact that I had two children."No sentimentality, but breaks my heart.In "On Writing," Carver gives us his philosophy of what makes for good writing: don't play tricks on the reader, do your best and take the time to choose the right word.
Another excellent collection from Raymond Carver, this one a selection of 4 essays, 50 poems and 7 short stories.I did not read this book in the "correct" order, reading the poems first, then the short stories, finishing with the essays, but I think it would be best to begin with the essays as it is here that Carver talks about his children, his father, his writing and his influences, giving a little context to the content of some of his poems and short stories.
so I won't write a long review here.
Though fans of either Carver or Bukowski won't need it, here's a brief excerpt to whet the appetite:Bukowski this is the life I sayit's good to be poor it's good to have hemorrhoidsit's good to be in loveBut you don't know what it's likeYou don't know what it's like to be in loveIf you could see her you'd know what I meanThe poems, the essays (especially the one about Carver's father), and the stories -- the stories, my God, the stories -- in "Fires" are all simply brilliant.
Fires by Raymond CarverAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list...After the essay On Writing, Raymond Carver explains more about his art, the suffering involved in it in: - FiresThe reader learns about the greatest influence on the author, the hardships endured and some of his convictions.His children had the greatest influence on Raymond Carver.He mentions a quote from Flannery O’Connor, which was something like this:- All

Out of all the wonderful pieces of work in this collection of essays, shorts and poems, The Cabin is perhaps THE example of quintessential Carver.
Fires also satisfied my curiosity to read his poetry, a mix of touching, abstract, ominous and-in the case of You Don't Know What Love is, an account of an evening spent with a fellow master of words Bukowski-razor-sharp funny as well.His poems and his words opens worlds within one, inspire one to write, and beat with a pulsing of life as if to say: 'This could be your life, too'.
Assim, atribuí-lhe uma espécie de média.Na primeira parte, «Ensaios», percebi finalmente porque Raymond Carver não se aventurou num romance, ficando-se sempre pelos contos, além de ter ficado a conhecer as suas raízes e as suas inspirações.A segunda parte é exclusiva para «Poemas», logo, a de que menos gostei.
Apesar de não saber ser apreciadora de poesia, li algumas coisas interessantes, mas não o suficiente para lhes prestar mais atenção.A terceira parte, «Narrativas», contém aquilo que já conheço de Carver: histórias não necessariamente com uma conclusão, mas episódios da vida de pessoas mais ou menos normais com vidas na mesma linha.
It just has to be there for the fierce pleasure we take in doing it, and the different kind of pleasure that's taken in reading something that's durable and made to last, as well as beautiful in and of itself.
Something that throws off these sparks--a persistent and steady glow, however dim."Not sure who throws sentences like that last one into casual conversation -- but I'll be damned if that kind of articulation isn't a reason to read this book.
I am giving this book five stars because I love Raymond Carver, but I am disappointed in my particular copy. I got it at a used book store and it looked fine on the outside, but it must've been a misprint. In one of the stories a page was missing, and then later in the book, it repeated a huge chunk of pages, so I ended up missing four stories entirely. How does that even happen?
Wow! While many of the poems in this book are light and elegant but the short stories are dark, rich and full of details that make them come alive. Carver tells stories without being too explicit. Letting the reader bring thoughtful consideration to the story. He seems to trust the reader. I felt trusted. I also loved the poems about the outdoors. The environment. Fishing, boating, being in the forest. Surprising juxtaposition with the gritty stories. I plan on reading more by Raymond Carver.
Valuable if you want to see how a writer was made. Essays work like quick vodka shots. The stories collected are early attempts, still not sharp enough, the dialogues clumsy. It is very inspiring in a way. If you continue doing for a long time what really matters to you and if you are honest, things may work out.
The essay part is just great and informative, giving a picture of the construction of Carver's life and writing creeds. But the poems are poor; they make sense, yet are all but tantamount to nonsense. The stories, in comparison with the revised edition, seem absolutely verbose.
Some nice poetry and great insights into authors and authoring. I didn't know his work till I read this collection. Found a second hand copy so will revisit when it gets here.
A good (although not essential) collection of poems and stories. The essays to begin the collection are a nice introduction to the author, however.
Not sure what I think of Carver as a poet. It’s interesting to see longer edits of prior stories in this edition. I am depressed
Nicely written but predictably downbeat and gloomy! Have read several of the short stories in another collection.
Short Stories, Essays by Raymond CarverAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/This is probably my last note on Raymond Carver.Albeit, in a few years’ time, after reading again some of his works I might try to put down some thoughts.It has been a joy ride.To mention the first titles that came when searching among my notes on some the narratives of this fabulous author:- A small Good thing,

What I loved most about this collection was the insight that it gave into Raymond Carver, the man.
He only passes over literary influences and is much more concerned with people and things that have influenced the stories he comes up with.
After reading these, I went into a much fresher and more interesting perspective on his stories.
The stories in Fires are top form as always, although unfortunately I had already read a couple of them from What We Talk About...
This is a standout amongst all Carver I've read.
There's plenty of that around."FIRES for Carver's inspirations -- "I really don't feel that anything happened in my life until I was twenty and married and had the kids.
Then things started to happen.""Influences.
As you can see, I'm still under their influence, though the days are relatively clear now, and the silences are right."JOHN GARDNER: THE WRITER AS TEACHER for Carver's first break --"It was in his office, within sight of his unpublished books, that I undertook my first serious attempts at writing.""Any strategy that kept important and necessary information away from the reader in the hope of overcoming him by surprise at the end of the story was cheating."
Teksten 'My Father's Life' er klart den bedste - de andre er sådan lidt so-so; jeg følte i hvert fald ikke, at jeg fik noget virkelig fantastisk at vide om det at skrive.Digtene, må jeg indrømme, skøjtede jeg hurtigt igennem.
Hans historier er welt-klasse, men de her digte...nej, de sagde mig ikke noget.
Jeg ved, at jeg er gammeldags, og som udgangspunkt stiller mig skeptisk overfor digte, der ikke rimer - men derudover var der ikke rigtig noget at komme efter for mig.'Stories'-delen er klart den, der gør bogen værd at læse.
Og de andre historier er også gode, men jeg synes stadig, 'What We Talk About...' er bedre.
It’s interesting to compare the stories published in this collection with the versions he published in other collections because you can see the progress of revision.
“Distance” for example, (which was titled “Everything Stuck to Him” in What We Talk About When We Talk About Love), is here published in its original version.
The next version (the “Everything Stuck to Him” version) is more compressed and missing several scenes, details, and character interactions.
When the story appeared in Where I'm Calling From, it is called, once again, “Distance” and the missing scenes are back in, although with some minute changes.
When I was in college, I took a couple of creative writing courses and Raymond Carver was considered perhaps the finest craftsmen of short stories.
While stylistically I appreciated the sparseness of his writing, I found little to engage me in minimalism of the stories - little in the way of plot or character for me to find interesting or likable.
The poems where he tries to put himself in another's place do not work nearly as well.
The stories, too, are hit and miss.
These are earlier works in his oeuvre and some of his later refinement is missing.
Ranging from devastatingly frank and honest non-fiction and essays to his trademark short-story accounts, and then decorated some with Carver's unique verse - Fires is a volume that really introduces you to the breadth and depth of Carver's work.
Despite this being a very slim book with extremely short essays and tales, it took me a great while to read and absorb the pieces; Carver's writing, so pared down and viscerally effective in its minimalism, satiates the readerly appetite in an oddly discomforting way.
