https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/997958.Stephen_Hero
If you're reading this, you probably know the story behind this book (summary: early draft of Portrait of an Artist using a more straight-forward narrative and prose style; Joyce allegedly threw it in the fire and started over; this is the 200 pages of a much larger manuscript that his sister rescued).Famously Nabokov once tried to burn his draft of Lolita while it was still a work in progress, and his wife stopped him at the last second.
And sometimes, like with Joyce, they're smart enough to know when to cut their losses and start over.It's not that Stephen Hero is bad, it's just that it's far less good than Portrait.
Es decir, la historia de siempre, los matices de todos los siglos que se enfocan en las actitudes y los comportamientos de personajes que van a medio gas en esto de convertirse y creer en el evangelio, desde obispos que faltan a la caridad porque se mueven por envidia hasta jesuitas ramplones que alimentan al ateo con sus sinrazones; también los amigos de Stephen que lo acompañan cada tarde a la biblioteca de la ciudad, pero estos menos, a pesar de lo que le diga su madre.
Esa persona que baila al vaivén de la tradición y de los siglos, y que dejó de formarse con doce años, nada más recibir su primera comunión o la confirmación, es la que ridiculiza Joyce en Stephen el héroe.
Oddly enough this is the last of Joyce's work (other than letters) that I had not read, though it's his first attempt at writing.This is so much more autobiographical, so much less stylized, and a bit more human than Portrait, it makes a nice counterpoint.
I know there's a vast debate about Joyce's ironic distance vis-a-vis that creed, but even so the rejection of petty-bourgeois ends on the final pages rings just as true today as it must have in 1904 - "I went to this university day-school in order to meet men of a like age and temper...
Stephen Hero is a fragment of an early draft for Joyce’s A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. It portrays Stephen Dedalus in his teens (the period described in the last third of A Portrait). The style here is not so Pater-esque as in A Portrait; it is closer to Ibsen, even to naturalism, than it is to the stylistic and formal experimentation of Joyce's later books. The narrative includes a conversation between Stephen and his mother that is among the most shocking things I have ever read.
This book is essential reading for any fan of Joyce and/or anyone who has read A Portrait of the Artist As a Young Man, and pointless for anyone else.
I say pointless because it is not a whole novel; it is a fragment of a novel because Joyce (allegedly) pitched it into his fireplace after twenty publishers rejected it; his wife (allegedly) salvaged it.So it will not be a whole story to anyone who has not read A Portrait.
Frankly, it is, in my opinion, a more satisfying, if less complete, portrait.
A master-work in embryo, as it were; although, it must be said, in danger of being still-born! But good editing & an understanding of Ireland's reactionary establishment made Joyce hold back from a frontal assault. APOTAAAYM...just add the great 'Ulysses' & literary immortality awaits! Cryptic enough for you?
In many ways, I actually enjoyed it more than Portrait of the Artist--I prefer the outside of Stephen's psyche to the inside. The dialogue is clever, and plot things actually happen. That said, Portrait contains a tasty stylistic and thematic mysticism that is missing from this text, so I think both are worth reading together.
The rough original draft to "Portrait of the artist" and in my view much, much better.
Most readers are probably already familiar with the the content of 'Stephen Hero' and know, likewise, that much of the work was recycled into 'A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man,' which Joyce published roughly a dozen years after abandoning 'Stephen.' The book was apparently 518 pages longer than this edition published in 1955 and edited by Theodore Spencer, but the action corresponds neatly with that of the end of 'Portrait', centered entirely on Stephen's precocious college days.
Likewise, Stephen's college chums Lynch and Cranly enter the pages as distinct personalities rather than walls against which the hero batters his artistic ideas.
Sanatçının Bir Genç Adam Olarak Portresi'nin ilk versiyonunu oluşturan aynı zamanda otobiyografik roman özellikleri taşıyan bu kitap kurtarılan bölümleri ile basılmış.Her ne kadar bazı bölümlerin kopukluğu hissedilse de eser, Stephen Daedalus (Joyce’un kendiyle özdeşleştirdiği karakter) isimli karakterin ergenlik yaşlarına, okul ve aile hayatına, dini düşüncelerine, sanat ve edebiyat anlayışına, ilk aşkına davet edildiğimiz bir şölen aslında.
Tüm azmini sanatçı olmaya adamış, toplumsal koşullardan, İrlanda’nın zihniyetinden, tutucu ailesinden ve din kavramından sıyrılmaya çabalayan, kendini geliştirmiş bir genç görüyoruz kitapta, öyle ki Ibsen’in tiyatrolarından, antik, modern ve güzellik kavramlarından, felsefeden, sanat tarihinden, Aquino’lü Thomas’ın iyi ve yüce kavramlarından bahseden Stephen’ın entelektüellik seviyesinin yüksek olduğu aşikar.
Joyce tüm birikimini bir kitaba yüklemeye çalışmış sanki.
unfair to give a note to a novel missing parts. A great book though. Comparing with A Portrait of the artist, there is more focus on the actual art of writing, technically speaking. It also has the conflict of faith vs art, the church as an obstacle in Stephen's (Joyce's) way to becoming a great artist, etc, which are present in A Potrait, however, still a lot of focus on writing, on its aesthetics (lots of Aquinas' 'esthetics') and philosophical/religious aspects that surrounds the activity of writing/literature in general.
Any art student should be required to read this. I am quite astonished by the modernity of this book and how it can echo with my personal history (except I am a total art failure ahahah)
The other problem is that almost no one who joins seems like they want to take the time out to get involved, and this addresses a problem with Goodreads: the format is messy (If you're reading, Orwellian monitors of Goodreads, do something to save your site!).
And if N is still going to write those lengthy reviews, I will always be reading.
But I'm going to cease posting star reviews, because the grading scale is garbage, and pitting great books up against one another on such a frail grading metric is hardly something I'd like to continue doing.So how's Stephen Hero?
The story goes as follows: Joyce had finished the short stories that comprise Dubliners and was set to work on something else (not necessarily a novel, though that is what it would eventually become).
It was saved and this "first draft" eventually became A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Stephen Hero tells the story of the boy, Stephen, who becomes the young man, Stephen.
In fact, if you think Portrait is riddled with aesthetic philosophy, just give Stephen Hero a whirl: it's clearly the missing link between Joyce's formal essay on aesthetics, "A Portrait of the Artist" and his first novel, Portrait.This "first draft" is not surprisingly not much fun to read.
He wanted to show it to his parents but the examination was approaching and he knew that their sympathy would be incomplete."It's hard to be hard on this, as Joyce wrote it in his early 20s, and as it stands, much of it is actually very well-written, albeit more conventionally styled than Portrait.
In Portrait you have much the same story as presented here, but its stylistic tendencies evolve with Stephen, and they reinforce each other.
Here, however, we just have Joyce writing about Aquinas and Ibsen and the intellectual development of Stephen, which while well-done, lacks the direction that Joyce's more mature works have.
If you haven't read Portrait of an Artist, it's a hard pass.
Portrait is an infinitely more polished work than Stephen Hero, less myopic in worldview, and nips away many of the unnecessary supporting cast members that bog the draft version down.As someone who is working on his own novel, I find all of this (what did and didn't make the final cut, how even Joyce struggles with many of the same issues as other first time writers) fascinating, but again, don't get me wrong, you can probably pass on this.
If there are other Joyce novels you haven't read, or reread, visit those instead.
A rather obscure one, this.Stephen Hero is the early draft of 'A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man' that James Joyce threw into a fire after growing sick of it being rejected.
It was rescued from the flames and eventually printed in its original form after his death.It’s a fascinating read, getting into the mindset of Joyce and seeing some of the ideas he had for the final version of the book.Having already read 'A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man', I think it’s probably best to do the same before you read this.
Stanislaus Airport is a nothing much more than a vast tubular steel barn set in the middle of Pomes Penyeach or Essex Giacomo or something countryside. It's a hateful place. I get there early.There's puzzlement about gates. It says one thing on boarding card and another on the departures screens. Mind, my favourite screen is displaying televised comedians united in approval. Hilarity ensues. Confusion eschews.
Really interesting read. It's a book perfect for book club as I have many questions and can't wait to discuss some of the more interesting passages.Despite some passages being really insightful and thought provoking - some of the book was also a bit dull and pretentious.Will be a good discussion book and I'm glad I read it - will read more by James Joyce now I know what an interesting writing style he has.
The early, more straight-forward, manuscript of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man that Joyce through into the fire and was saved by his family. Stephen is essentially a jerk through the whole manuscript, and most of it revolves around him arguing with people about literary-theory and religion. I can see why it was going in the fire.
Astonishingly mediocre, maudlin, boring (?!) ... Joyce cast the manuscript into a fire, and with good reason (the published version is only a fragment). It's simply impossible for me to believe that Joyce wrote Portrait (probably the third or fourth best novel of the twentieth century) just a few years later, but there it is.
Un texto esencial para entender al Esteban del Ulises. Muy contento de haberme decidido a leerlo antes de continuar la lectura de la obra principal de su autor. Aquí se muestra un Esteban no muy seguro de sus opiniones y en busca de certidumbres. El estilo es grandioso. Los detalles como texto inacabado lo hacen aún más interesante.
Of course the next version of Stephen Hero, A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, is much better. But it helps to understand Stephen Hero, because of the missing fragments.In Stephen Hero you can look at the changing mind of a young man, Irishman, Catholic and a poet. Amazing! :)
It does make an interesting postscript to my Joyce odyssey. It wuld have been a good novel if Joyce had tried harder to keep his philosophical ramblings out of it.All in all, it is a curio, nothing more.
if you love an author enough, you'll read his/her formative works, when he/she was pouring it all out and hadn't yet learned how to distill and control the material for effect. This is only a fragment of the monstrous original - which James Joyce's brother Stanislaus rescued from the fire.
Slightly confusing work but it's doable and a short novel....I can't remember most about it now but will come back to write more on this later.
I might want to try and read it in the future, if the mood strikes.
Liked this book a whole bunch.
This was the original draft of Portrait of the Artist, a far superior book.
Joyce's first draft of A Portrait of an Artist as a Young Man. Have you ever noticed that Ireland looks sort of like a Yorkshire Terrier?
