https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57586.Giants_in_the_Earth
The story of the Norweigen family led by Per Hansa struggling to not only survive in this brave new world, but to try and make a place for themselves is truly the story of the American spirit.
And that was easier to get through than this.Here's an example of what it's like to take just about any 200 pages in the book at random and read through them:"Today Big-Hansa tended the corn with Little-Hansa.
We will eat the corn.
The next day, we tended the corn some more.
It was a good Hansa today.
But Rolvaag has also captured the isolation that comes from living many miles away from 'civilization', andthe loneliness of life itself, whether it is lived in a city or in the wilderness.Per Hansa and his family move from Norway to the Dakota Territory to start a new life.
This is Per's blind approach to life, and it keeps him from connecting completely not only with his neighbors but with his own family.
This prompts a footnote by the author saying that the early pioneers never heard birds or insects during their first year on the Plains.
How could a rich habitat like the Great Plains not have bird life until after the farmers came?!
Thought I would re-read this book about Norwegian pioneers in South Dakota, in anticipation of the arrival of our exchange student from Norway.I love this book.
It answers many of the adult questions I had when re-reading Little House on the Prairie with my kids.
(However, like the Little House books, Giants is silent on the subject of frontier outhouses.)This could be subtitled “Manic-Depressive on the Prairie”.
His wife, Beret, is depressed: forlorn without her birth family, frightened by the limitlessness of the landscape, haunted by a sin.
For Beret, it is salvation; for Per Hansa, doom.
A giant of a pioneer novel. Isolation, loneliness and death in the stark midwest states...I have never forgotten the ending, first read when 15, of humble pioneer, 1870s, whose wife sends him into a blizzard, because--you see.... the horrid wife became a (red state) religious crackpot...and thus, out of religious - evil, America develops...with too many deaths.
There's lots of books about settlers of the American Prairie out there but Rolvaag does one thing remarkably well.
Read this about 15 years ago, but still clearly remember Rolvaag's portrayal of the grueling solitude of early settlers of the northern plain.
Especially of the wife, often left with her children while her husband went for supplies.
Not unlike a sailor's wife, but without the near companionship of other women.
Also, remember, these were stoic Norwegians.
Having been caught in blizzards (and whiteouts) in my lifetime it was evident that Rolvaag wrote them only as one who has been through them could.
Some things about nature do not change.
The small patches of fields in the Spring Creek settlement were slowly ripening and made a brave showing.
With every day that passed the wheat filled out more and more; the heads grew heavy and full of milk; as soon as the breeze died down in the afternoon, they would tilt toward the setting sun and slowly drop off to sleep, only to dream of the marvellous life that was now stirring within them."I have read numerous novels of the European settling of the West.
At the same time, they are cut off from family, lost in a trackless prairie, and subject to the sometimes brutal turns of nature.
This isn't a particularly cheery book; the closing chapter is entitled "The Great Plain Drinks the Blood of Christian Men and Is Satisfied." Still, between the hardships, the book paints a comprehensive picture of everyday pioneer life that is deeply moving and convincing, as alien as it is from our way of life only 140 years later.
Rolvaag also finds time to drop some heavy questions about religion, family, and heritage into the mix.
I mean, there are so many reasons, but the end result is that over-utilization of ellipses looks like sloppy writing and/or that the author is not very confident in his own story.
There's a lot of fantastic information in the footnotes of this novel, helpful in the sense of what actual immigrant pioneers experienced (this book was partly based on Rølvaag's own experiences as a child, so he would definitely know what it was like to live in the Dakota Territory in the late 19th century), Scandinavian mythology, artifacts that were used, and details about Norwegian names, and how they came about.
It took me years to read "Giants in the Earth"; the novel felt over-familiar, since I grew up across the street from Ole Rolvaag's house in Northfield, Minnesota near the campus of St. Olaf College, where he taught and where a library bears his name.
There’s no question that Rolvaag plans to align the story of Norwegian pioneer Per Hansa and his family with heroic archetypes and eternal themes.But the novel’s prose style and execution offer something more nuanced, if still ambitious: In an opening scene overflowing with bold sensory impressions, Hansa travels with his wife Beret and their children through an ocean of prairie grass as Rolvaag’s prose churns with formidable energy, punctuated by ellipses, exclamation marks and vigorous fragments of observation.
When I was a little girl, I loved to read books about the pioneers heading west. What little girl doesn't like Little House on the Prairie? I had forgotten my enjoyment of such books. But Giants in the Earth was so much better. I was glad it was a longer book, so there was more for me to enjoy.
Like My Antonia or O Pioneers, it treats the harsh reality of early life on the plains.
Written in Norwegian as Rolvaag emigrated to the midwest as a young man, and then returned to Norway for some of his education.
He spent his life as a professor at St. Olaf College.
The novel (actually two books combined in one volume) captures the hard work, the harsh weather, the importance of cordial relations with neighbors, fear of Indian attacks and most of all, the emotional hardships of those who left everything behind.
Rolvaag gives most of his attention to the physical work; raising children, birthing, and household management, not as much.
I first skimmed it 25 years ago, looking for good quotations to insert into a paper due the next day for a college immigration history class.
Of course, the assignment had been to read the book, not skim it, but no such luck.
Since then, I've remembered it as bleak and cold and brimming with Hans and Hansas.
Now that I've actually read the book, I realize that my earlier assessment didn't do the novel justice.
The psychological drama that plays out between Beret and Per Hansa is fascinating, and the South Dakota prairie is one of the best drawn characters in American literature.
This sits atop my most recommended.
It is an intense tale of struggle and determination.
It follows a family and their group of friends as they establish a settlement on the prairie.
As always I am moved by something the author may not have intended, a story within the story; I regard this among the best love stories I've read.
The protagonists' dedication and sacrifice cuts so deep that the love is more bitter than sweet...
in the face of their hardships the smallest kindness is a triumph, gentle moments a symphony.
but a must read, just keep tissue at hand.
I stood on the land where my great-great-great-grandparents were among the original settlers in this area of Dakota Territory.
It was not an easy life, living in such isolation and punishing weather conditions.
Living in such difficult conditions, some of the settlers could not imagine the area every becoming permanently settled, "...
nothing but the eternal, unbroken wilderness encompassed them round about, extending boundlessly in every direction; that these vast plains, so like infinity, should ever be peopled and settled, would be a greater miracle than for dead men to rise up and walk." Things can change a great deal in just a few generations!
This book, translated from Norwegian, is a classic of pioneer life by an author from my home state of Minnesota.
This is a story of the stuggle to live on a treeless prairie that gives a much harder efge than the Little House books.
It is also the story of persoanl disintegration as the lonelyness and isolation lead to Beret's increasing madness, and how the isolated little community struggles to cope.
She ultimately recovers her ability to act, but becomes a religious zealot that the community can not bear and her neurosis ultimately leads to tragedy in the famous winter of 1880-81.
We reached Wall, South Dakota on our ride and I was desperate for a book.
Trying to find a book while riding a bicycle across the country turns out to be much harder than one would expect.
When asked whether there was a nearby bookstore, most hotel clerks looked at me as if I were asking for a brothel.
Bookstore?
No, they didn't have any idea.
Or, yes, there might be one out in the mall, twenty minutes away (by car!) At Wall Drug, however, they had a surprisingly good selection of books about Native Americans, pioneers, wagon trains, westward exploration, etc.
I have read this book several times, the first time I was on my way to South Dakota to a funeral in about 1975.
A cousin had died and I was reading it in the car on the way.
Later that day I found myself in a cemetery on the prairie among my ancestors, most born in Norway, some of the stones inscribed in Norwegian, my great-grandfather, and great-great grandfather were buried in that cemetery.
The book is a classic pioneer tale, written in Norwegian, translated later into English.
This book is actually the first of a trilogy, but the later two are not as good, and never became as well known or well respected.
This book about a pioneer family from Norway was originally written in Norwegian and later translated into English.
This novel creates a more realistic view of our ancestors and, in the process, the author shatters those illusions.How do you handle the loneliness of being one of only a few people in a settlement?
How do you handle the uncertainty of unfamiliar weather, animals and people?
How do you handle the fear of a possible Indian attack?
Some people will handle all the pressure, but some do not.I found this book so readable and yet so powerful.
That had me picturing a 90 year old man still holding whatever those positions were his entire life, but when I remembered he died when he was 55 it didn't seem so surprising anymore.Getting back to the book, this is what I can tell you about the plot, the novel follows a pioneer Norwegian immigrant family's problems with moving west and dealing with land and the other elements, weather, farming, Indians, dirt, lots of dirt, in the Dakota Territory as they try to make a new life in America.
So I began the story, got to page 50 or so and page 12 fell out of the book.
Is there another fictional story so truthful as this? If so, I have not come across it. Rølvaag is frighteningly just in his storytelling, fearlessly depicting the saint and sinner in each of us. I would like to write so well as him in one language let alone in two.
There was nothing romantic about those times; life was undeniably hard, and Rölvaag doesn't sugarcoat his account of it.At the center of Rölvaag's story are Per Hansa, a strong-willed, independent, and resourceful man, and his wife Beret, who grows increasingly unhappy with her decision to have left Norway in order to assume the spartan life of a pioneer woman.
If there's any exception to this, it's Beret, who for a time appears to suffer from a rather debilitating depression, but ultimately nothing that a little frontier religion can't cure.
For a more entertaining account of Norwegian farmers, however, Garrison Keillor may be preferable.
As if separate authors have to reach for the same levers to tell their stories.Let me compare this tale with Jane Smiley's A Thousand Acres A Thousand Acres.
And they're pissed.The first book of Rolvaag's 'saga' mixes the genres of immigrant folklore and Viking Epic.
Her leaving Norway, to come to the desolation of the Dakota Terr.
In both stories the feminine must find justice and reconciliation in a male-dominated frontier where her voice is not the first to be heard, where her concerns and her religion don't have the same power as they did back in civilization.
Rolvaag keeps his narrative focused on the family of Per Hansa with his long-suffering wife Beret and four children, And-Ongen, Store-Hans, Ole and Peder Victorious.
From the opening moments the narrative is alive with the sounds and colors that surround the immigrant family and the impact of nature and the earth continue to influence their lives throughout the book.Filled with the vicissitudes of a life on the frontier, the novel celebrates the life of the family and community as they overcome each of the challenges they face.
Her story highlights the internal struggles of Per Hansa and his family and underlies the narrative of their interaction with the community at large.
. Bright, clear sky, to-day, to-morrow, and for all time to come"The opening lines of Ole Rolvaag's 1927 story of Norwegian settlers who start a difficult new life in South Dakota is deceptively optimistic, because the the book is full of the paradoxes of the time.
While the new land was beautiful and fertile, it could also be deadly.
I enjoyed this story, written in clear lovely prose, and am glad I didn't read it when I was younger.
Stark, beautiful, and inspiring are all words that describe this tribute to emigrant settlers.
I read this because I'm the daughter of an immigrant (Holland; not Norway), and I lived in North Dakota for several years.Thoughts -- randomly:This is a more gritty, heavier, more serious, more realistic version of the Little House on the Prairie books.
well, she made me sad.I thought the information about birds and insects and the unsettled prairie was interesting.Per Hansa's enthusiasm was infectious.
His energy and tireless investment in his land and his friends amaze me.Even though these people are Norwegian and my dad is Dutch, and it's a different time, there are still parts that I enjoyed strictly from the immigrant perspective.The land lines part bothered me.And the end was totally and completely unexpected.
Although there are lots of hardships to overcome and there is an ever increasing tension between the depressed inner life of the wife Beret and the can-do exuberance of her husband Per Hansa there wasn't enough real drama and suspense until the final "The Great Plain Drinks the Blood of Christian Men and is Satisfied." Previously each crisis seemed to be bypassed relatively easily and several years of locust plagues pass by in only a few pages.
But in the last section the life and death stakes are more nakedly on display.
I changed my rating for this book upon realizing that it is a existential novel, inadvertently showing the bad side of commanding one's life.I think that the majority of people who love this book have no idea what it means or what it is trying to say. It paints South Dakota perfectly -- nothing of the plains has changed but the technology and the will to try anew of the people there.
5 ★
For me, the pace of this novel mirrored the experience of the first settlers putting down roots in that vast wilderness; especially the women who so often got ignored, left behind , left to birth babies alone, to care for sick and dying children without a doctor, who watched helplessly as insects or blizzards, tornado or fire raced across the plains to potentially end their lives in a heartbeat.
Who can not understand this when faced with all that came into fruition?This review is jumbled but I wanted to get my thoughts down while they are fresh in my mind.
This is a truly wonderful book. It's about the early settlers in Dakota Territory, actually not far from where I grew up. I felt like I spent the last few weeks traveling with them and enduring their hardships. It's now one of my favorite books, along with Main Street by Sinclair Lewis -- two novels surprisingly close to my homes.
