https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/686651.The_Plough_and_the_Stars
The Playboy of the Western World (1907) and The Plough and the Stars (1926), both great Irish plays, each sparked a riot at the Abbey Theatre.
The Plough and the Stars debuted when O’Casey was forty six.This play has much in common with with its “riot buddy” The Playboy of the Western World: like its elder sibling, it possesses a poetic language rooted in everyday speech and the ability to shift—fluidly, seamlessly—from the sentimental to the comic to the tragic.
The first half is a comedy, the second half is a tragedy, and being a first-rate Irish drama the reaper has paid many a visit by the end of the show.Like so many of O'Casey's works, the language of his Dubliners flows effortlessly from tenements, to pubs, to the bullet-torn streets of of the Easter Rising.
His characters are as colorful as the banners they carry, be they Union Jacks or the Irish Tricolor.
A must read for lovers of Irish drama, political theatre, or simply rich dialogue.
Acts as a potent antidote to the postmodern Neil LaButes and Sarah Ruhls of the contemporary theatre.
2.5/5This is the play that I'll be doing for the comparative study for my leaving cert. I found the historical and political aspects of this play quite interesting, and there were a few characters that I enjoyed studying. Otherwise, it is a somewhat disappointing depiction of the most crucial moment in Irish history.
O' Casey attempts to take some of the romanticism out of nationalistic views of the Irish revolution by painting a more realistic picture of the life and struggles of average Irishmen at the time of the Easter Rising.
It's an interesting critique of Irish politics and values (love of country, family, worker equality, etc.).
In the end, however, it follows true to so many Irish tragedies.
Perhaps it is a commentary on the state of the Irish people--they bring tragedy upon themselves through their own actions.
Or perhaps this is too harsh a reading of the play--it could just be following the literary tradition of tragedy, as well.
From BBC Radio 3:Sean O'Casey's classic play set in the midst of the Easter Rising of 1916. The impact of events is viewed through the eyes of ordinary people inhabiting a Dublin tenement. O'Casey's masterpiece paints a vivid portrait of a city and a nation in turmoil.
I saw this performed at the Abbey Theater in Dublin in March in honor of the 100th anniversary of the Easter Uprising in 1916.
The play was originally performed at the Abbey in 1926 and caused riots when it was performed.
The 2016 production was wonderful and I felt honored to be a part of the audience.
I found the accents sufficiently difficult at the performance that I thought I'd benefit from reading the text.
The play is a wonderful critique of the revolutionaries as well as the socialist movement.
Maybe it's because I always feel drawn to stories of revolution, or because I long for stories of those who fight for what they believe in, or because I love the cadence of the Irish dialogue...
Maybe it's because I am drawn to the theatre history of the play in which audience members rioted in Act Two and I wonder when was the last time a theatre audience was so engaged that they could not stay in their seats...
In particular, I loved the character of Bessie Burgess and it is going on my list of dream roles.
It isn't that O'Casey isn't a good writer. He is. He's a brilliant writer but a not so brilliant human. Some people think that doesn't matter in a play. That is doesn't matter that O'Casey thinks women are caprious and worthless, that the poor are two stupid to even understand their own plight and the rich any more so. That bravery is only fear hidden.Of course bravery is only fear hidden. But I'll never understand why O'Casey thinks that's a bad thing. Some people think it's only the technical skill of the playwrite that matters. I disagree.
My favourite Sean O'Casey play. I also went to see it in the Abbey, and was not disappointed, even though they did a somewhat modern version of it. I think that the play is trying to show that even though the Easter Rising represents hope for a better future for so many people, the characters of the play will still be poverty-stricken, regardless of who rules the country. Great play.
A hard-hitting work by a hard-drinking playwriter. I give it a 3 star, but probably would give it higher if I ever saw it on the stage. I like the cadence and timber of his language - it is very good.
I have a lot more context for this play now, my second time through it, and also a lot to say about bloodlust and sacrifice and being a decent person, but if I indulged, I'd be ranting through spoilers and possibly for hours, so maybe now is not the time.
Classic Sean O'Casey play about the Easter Uprisings.
A voice that seems to capitalise on the men of Dublin City who live in poverty and destitution.
Aimless, directionless men, seeking for purpose and belonging in a country where they have next to no social status.
Jack Clitheroe is the example of such men, poor and despised by those of higher social status.
It was not idealistic ideas that drove Jack, but his self-image to be more than just a poor tenement in Dublin City but a glorious leader/soldier in the Rebellion and the romantic notion of “Dying for Ireland”.
I have to study this okay and not knowing anything about it I was looking forward to it.
Once I began to read it I found it very slow and boring but that could be because I was reading it in school with my teacher.
I found the way they spoke very hard to understand which made the pace very slow as at times I found myself going back to understand sentences.
The historical and political aspect of this play was very interesting and I think the over all plot was good and the different aspect of the rising was nice !
Especially great having seen it performed in Dublin!
slightly better this time around but still not enjoyable. you'd think he'd notice that he gave mrs gogan three different names while editing??
...Interesting.
It was okay, some of it was quite enjoyable, some of it I felt I didn't fully understand (isn't that the way with nearly every single text I've had to read for university?!) and it was very context-dependant, which means me cracking out my Irish History from AS History!
Because, for AS-level, I did Ireland 1867-1922 (AND GOT AN A IN THE EXAM) so I should be able to go through it and remember the crucial stuff.
But all of Irish literature is very much dependant on understanding the backdrop and history of Ireland.
It was interesting but not one of my favourites.
Good play with obvious message, but I do think the charming theme has been done before in other nation's folklore.
Somewhat obscure play about the Easter 1916 uprising. You need to know some Irish history to make sense of it, but if you can get beyond that it has a solid dramatic heart.
I was Nora in the school play in 6th year and can still quote a lot of this from memory. One of the best literary works about the Easter Rising that I've encountered.
LOVED THIS PLAY!!
Tiocfaidh ár lá, am I rite
Intense play set around the Easter rising of 1916. Excellent female roles. Tragedy with some Irish wit.
Bettie's Books
A nice play on the Easter Rising in Dublin 1916. Quite eclectic for a French student, I'm glad to study it in class !
An excellent compliment to Peter De Rosa's: "Rebels: The Irish Rising of 1916". It is a very moving comic tragedy of the events of the Easter uprising in Dublin.
3.5
Bir Nora daha...Sıkıcı ama bazende süper olan bi oyun. İzlemek isterdim. Nette olan ses kayıtları ve oyundan çekilen görüntüler gerçekten çok hoş.Sıkıcı demiş miydim?
Boring, and long.
A Tragedy in Four Acts -- that says it all.
