https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/802625.Crewe_Train
Rose Macaulay's writing is smart, understated, and deliriously funny in a saucily deadpan sort of way - she had me at the dedication (which I'd quote here but my mom has the book because it was so fabulous I needed to share it with someone pronto.) Denham, the truculent, self-reliant, laconic lead character, has to be one of my favorite female protagonists; I can't help thinking she should be played by the British actress Miranda Hart if this were a movie.
I enjoyed it immensely, and I'm looking forward to reading Macaulay's (thirty-eight!) other novels.
#VMCBookClub - April 2018
NB. Train nerds. No trains to Crewe appear in this novel.
I was therefore delighted that Virago has seen fit to re-issue some of her novels – and while I’d always prefer a shabby old green these new editions are lovely to be going on with.Crewe Train is a much earlier novel and yet there are several similarities to Macaulay’s later novel especially in the character of Denham Dobie.
There’s an untutored, childishness about Denham as a young woman – who prefers to be alone out of doors, to not have to talk or socialise or play host in any way to relatives from England.Denham’s father – a former Church of England vicar, had taken his daughter away, seeking a quieter life abroad, having become sick of having to ‘bury dissenters or to baptise illegitimate infants’ and wanting to be less busy and less sociable.
Brought up in a remote spot by a father who sought to avoid the world, his daughter has totally inherited his mindset.
She enjoys freedom, flouting societal 'norms' - not through perversity but an honest failure to understand WHY (and sometimes the reader can see her point.)"One room thoroughly turned out each day, too- that's most important.""Turned out..." Denham repeated it vaguely."Yes, turned out, The things all taken out of the room and put back again, you know."What for, Denham silently wondered,.
This is a massive culture shock; they enjoy clothes, culture, socialising, none of which Denham has any time for.
The sort of thing people would invent, so that even being in different houses shouldn't stop them talking to each other."I also identified with Denham because neither of us cares about our own home decor.
When Arnold suggests she try this, she replies:"'The only thing I've read lately,' Denham said, 'is that book on dog diseases.
Was Macaulay a young socialite among the London literary set, or did she shun publicity?An independent woman combined with meddling relatives and a husband who cannot fulfil her needs regardless of what he does all combine to make Crewe Train one of the best novels I have ever read.
Kudos to Virago Modern Classics for keeping the work of this prolific, excellent writer available.
I was introduced to Macaulay's work a few years ago when I studied The World My Wilderness for an Osher Lifetime Learning Course.
Macaulay uses an evenhanded approach in satirizing 1926 London society in Crewe Train.
She creates an interesting character whose indolent father allowed her to remain a wild child even into adulthood.
When Denham moves to London to live with her sophisticated aunt's family, she is not at all interested in following societal norms but cannot avoid falling in love.
Pleasant, amusing story of a little oddball character overwhelmed by her extended family. Didn’t love it, but didn’t hate it either. I chose it for its setting partially in Andorra, as I attempt to read my way around the world. Andorra.
Downton Abbey 1920s meets proto-feminist tomboy, it does not end happily.
Well written, but not extremely entertaining
Denham Dobie is a unique and unforgettable character.
Five o’clock tea,’ and if you visit the Arctic regions, you shall find Esquimaux infants babbling broken Anglo-Saxon, and huts inscribed W.C.”From Mallorca the Dobies fled to Andorra but this escape failed for within a few years Mr. Dobie married for a second time and had four more children.
Trouble, indeed, to others and to oneself, seemed to be one of the greatest objects of this strange human life.”And she cannot stand the incessant talk and gossip.“The telephone kept ringing, and Winifred answered it, bringing her mistress each time some redundant and unnecessary message for her or for Arnold or for both.
This witty social satire was first published in 1926 and at times it’s very funny.
However, Denham finds it hard to adapt to life in London among highbrows, and makes only fitful efforts at conforming to their code of behavior.
H. Lawrence, Macaulay is too lucid to romanticize Denham's complete lack of interest in things of the mind.
Soon after her arrival in London, Denham falls in love with Peter's junior partner Arnold, and although everybody, including themselves, is aware that they are like chalk and cheese, they promptly get married.
Denham becomes obsessed with a ramshackle Cornish cottage complete with a smuggler's secret passage, and tries hard to convince Arnold to make it their permanent home.
So, Denham Dobie is an awkward, poor relation from "down there" (one of those swarthy, southern places, in this case, Andorra) come to live with her swell relations in sparkling, early 20th century London.
How much of Macaulay is contained in Denham Dobie, one wonders.
A coda presents a severe indictment of the gossip-mongering side of society, which seems almost personal for the author, one senses Macaulay was victimized in some way by such gossip.
But all in all, a nice presentation of a particular time, place and set (London publishing intelligentsia, somehow seemingly familiar to Macaulay), made more poignant and brought into high relief by the "alien" among them.
Crewe Train fa riferimento a una ballata popolare inglese che recita:“Oh, Mr. Porter, whatever shall I do?I want to go to Birmingham, but they’ve sent me on to Crewe!”e simboleggia la strada sbagliata che viene imboccata dalla protagonista, la giovane Denham Dobie.
Denham è la figlia di un pastore vedovo, in pensione, che ha lasciato il suo lavoro non per motivi di coscienza, come sostiene, ma perché non può più sopportare di dover mantenere i numerosi rapporti sociali richiesti dalla sua professione.
In cerca di pace e tranquillità, si trasferisce con la figlia nell'isolata Andorra.
It’s not The Towers of Trebizond, but it’s still Rose Macaulay and therefore better than most. Really, Crewe Train is almost worth it for the dedication alone:To THE PHILISTINES, THE BARBARIANS, THE UNSOCIABLE, And those who do not care to take any trouble.What the book is about, finally, is the deplorably civilizing effects of love. You may hide yourself in perfect happiness in a hole in the ground, Macaulay tells us, but love will find some mean way to drive you out of it.
This curious, dated novel set in the early 1920's is very much of its time and is set in chattering upper middle class London society. Although the main protagonist introduced into this society quickly rebels against it and the society seen as wasteful and unnecessarily formal, the characters are only drawn from this level of society, with housemaids and fishermen merely mentioned.First published in 1926, not 1967 as detailed on the cover!
Mildly entertaining, and probably rather racy in its day. I guess the author was aiming to expose the shallowness of a certain London set, but it didn't ring quite true to me. I felt that she was too much part of what she was trying to mock, and the contrast between Denham and the relations she had to live with was rather crudely done. And the Cornish episode over-egged the argument. However, it is interesting to note that gossip never changes.
Denham is an interesting character. She struggles to be herself and live her life the way she wants to but finds that in the end, she must conform to the society that she has been placed into. Interesting perspective on 'high' society.
3.5 Denham is a young girl who is bounced from place to place. As she makes her way to adulthood, we see her come into her own, no matter the cost to her family or reputation. A charming and witty book of England in the mid-century.
All I really have to say is that this book was good fun. I still have quite a weakness for that tiresome British drawing room novel thing, and this really makes the most of the genre.
