https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5883777-the-holy-bible
The actual going out of Egypt and the wandering around in the desert are really neat, and of course there are miracles friggin' everywhere, but the back half of the book gets a little slow going as we enter Tabernacle law.Leviticus: Three stars.
The second half, though, is like Revelation: The Prequel starring Gabriel, the Chatty One. A very good book, but not a cursory read.CONT.
A good book, but man, the love fest is a bit overwhelming for a crotchety sot like me.2 John: Three stars.
My review: Life.What I am learning from this book: Salvation. Life. Joy. Truth. Hope. Courage.
Also, anyone who claims they live their life by the bible should actually read it and see exactly what it is they claim to do.
I'm guessing most people ignore 90% of what it says to do.
Really, you could just collect everything Jesus says into one slender manual and cut the rest, since Jesus's sermons are the only parts anyone should really be proud of.
The rest of it is a chronicle of genocide, rape, war, destruction, and hatred, interspersed with a really boring catalog of everyone born to a single patriarch.
While this is really impossible to do at times (especially with Paul's writings), it really helps a lot when studying the Scripture.For instance, 1 Peter 5:6-7 in the NIV is translated this way:"Humble yourselves, therefore, under God's mighty hand, that he may lift you up in due time.
(1) Humble yourself, and (2) Cast all your anxieties on Him.The ESV translates it this way:"Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you."Thus, it retains that one-thoughtness of Peter's original writing.

George Mueller read the bible over 200 times in his life. One of my friend's preacher Grandfather read the bible right at 400 times before he died. I'd like to land somewhere in there if God lets me live long enough and Jesus waits to come back. I've been reading for the last 14 years and the things i have learned would take a book to explain. But it has made me a better preacher a better husband a better person in general. "these are not mere words, they are your very life" Deuteronomy 32:47

More of the usual war, murder and rape, which is all ok so long as you are following the right god.
Murdering (pretty standard, I know, and giving away his wife (who didn't get much of a choice in anything) to his 'best man'.
It's pretty obvious to me that these books were written at different times by different people, not inspired by one God (unless he's got many, many personalities), who have at least one thing in common, namely controlling other people using fear, although maybe for different reasons.
One thing I realized while reading this book is that: All prophets are false prophets.
I could go on and on about the controversies throughout the bible, (which by the way also is super boring to read at times and just boring other times.) but I've got to read the book of mormon now.
My handbook to life and beyond. Not written by "Anonymous" this Holy Book was written by Godly people inspired by the Holy Spirit of the One True God - The God of Abraham, Isaac, & Jacob. Leading us to the Messiah, God's Son, Jesus Christ.
In Part I God makes a bunch of rules, and ruthlessly punishes his chosen people for not following said rules. In Part II God sacrifices himself to himself so that he doesn't have to punish people for breaking the rules any more. The rest of Part II is mainly about how most of the old rules don't apply any more, except for the ones that do (namely, don't be gay or a sorcerer). Then a bunch of weird apocalyptic shit happens.
Our church started reading through the Bible during this year, preaching from a selection of the previous week's readings.
This was also an answer to a prayer from a few years ago that I would find it easy to get into the word.
It was amazing to see how things came together for me to read it.
I think For The Love Of God by D.A. Carson is an excellent companion to reading through the Bible, as it provides a fantastic commentary on history and application in a very do-able, 1-page read each day.
A terrible book. Badly written with awful pacing. Trivial details are explained in mind-numbing detail, while actual important questions about what is God and the afterlife are ignored. The morals are inconsistent, incoherent and often abhorrent. It advocates genocide, sexism, bigotry, murder, massacre and hatred of everyone who disagrees. This book has no relevance for modern days and should be confined to the dustbin of history.

...What can I say?I've been reading since the freshman year of High School. I've never run out of things to learn or new ways to appreciate it. There've been highs and lows but in the end... it always comes back here.
I decided to read the Bible, not in a year, but in less than 90 days. I started in January and ended in March (84 days). Blogging through it was helpful for me.
Greatest book I have ever read. It is written by a universe renowned writer. Focuses on the Hero of the book, Jesus Christ, who frees His people from bondage and slavery to sin through His sacrifical atoning death...only death could not hold Him, so he becomes raised from the dead, commisions 12 men to build His church and currently sits at His Father's right hand. Story culminates with His return to earth where He establishes His kingdom for those he foreordained since the beginning of time...If you havent read this book yet...You are missing out.
There is no way to adhere to the entirety of the OT teachings.
Anyone who adheres to a portion of them - which portion do you select?
Ultimately people are adhering to rules of the culture in which they live.
The promise that people will eventually have their own personal relationship with God is never fulfilled.The teachings of Jesus were surprisingly relevant and humanistic.
But the subsequent abduction of the faith by Paul creates a stark choice.
I don't see how someone can be faithful to both Jesus and Paul.
Paul represents what Jesus was fighting against.
I'm glad I did, because the Reader's Bible lived up to my expectations.Some folks don't realize how much stuff on the pages of their Bibles isn't part of the inspired text.
Is the poetry set apart with indented lines, or is it printed in a block of text just like prose?The ESV Reader's Bible cuts out most of the extraneous conventions and gets most of the typography just right.
We should celebrate Crossway's courage for pushing this venture as far as they did.After reading the entire book in about 5 weeks' time, here are my impressions.• Reading the Bible was more fun than usual.
(a whole bunch of reading plans, including online resources and, if desired, the possibility to have a daily reading e-mailed to you)http://biblein90days.com/ (I actually read through this one over 2 years, but still found it very helpful - it was my 1st time reading straight through) [EDIT: looks like they don't have the reading schedule available here separately from the Bible anymore, but I found it again here or you can try a search for 'bible in 90 days bookmark' - it's usually a pdf]and here's a page on How to Study the Bible: http://www.klove.com/promodetails.asp...
Rather than really reviewing the Bible like a normal novel (which again, I don't think would be the right way to handle it), I think it'd be better to just talk about the experience since it was such a long and involved one.A majority of the time, I was slaving away with the intricacies of the Old Testament; virtually all of the books that are typically labelled as "boring" are to be found somewhere in that area (ex.
well, Christians, a bulk of the content focuses on Jesus and his disciples, beginning with the gospels and ending with Revelations, which I find reads a lot like an Old Testament book.
I felt asleep dozens of times before I made it to the end of the prequel.The second book, however, is more interesting.
One of them was killed, and they presented some guy and claimed that it is the same person who was murdered, like he 'had resurrected from death' (however, nobody could actually identify him as the murdered guy before they were told many times that it's him).
And then he takes all their doctrine and turns the tables, making everything inside out and getting some personal profit out of this all.Generally, the story is somewhat cool, but I'd throw away literally 90% of the text.
Probably my most read Bible in the house.
This is the one I: mark up, underline, and spill coffee on - I just love this book.
I have it on my Iphone as well.Often I love footnotes and commentaries, but sometimes I just need a bible with no distractions or pictures/maps/and endless explanations.
I have about 15 Bibles laying around, and the English Standard Version is my favorite to read.
The New Living Translation is wonderful as well.
I now seldom use the N.I.V. or Good News editions I used to favor.
Finished reading the entire Bible yesterday - started July 9. I've always loved the Bible, and reading it so quickly has made me love it in new ways. I never realized how someone could come to believe in God solely on reading the Bible (I mean, come on. It's a weird book), but when I plowed through the scriptures in a very non-academic way, the faithfulness of God was so obvious. It was a great exercise in self-discipline - both to read consistently and not get sucked into investigating some question.
Utter claptrap
I love getting to know the Author of this one....it's hands-down my fave.
Boring!
Now, one of the Commandments is "Thou shall not kill", yet God's law is quite murderous and tells the Hebrews to commit murderous acts, like stoning to death WOMEN who had sex before getting married (Deuteronomy 22:13-21:13 “If any man takes a wife and goes in to her and then hates her 14 and accuses her of misconduct and brings a bad name upon her, saying, ‘I took this woman, and when I came near her, I did not find in her evidence of virginity,’ 15 then the father of the young woman and her mother shall take and bring out the evidence of her virginity to the elders of the city in the gate.
It takes a little time at first, but with practice it becomes almost as easy as actually turning pages.The ESV is a very read-able version without sacrificing theological meaning and depth.
Any English-speaker who has never before read the Bible could read in this version without much trouble.
;-)I spent the last couple of years reading the Bible straight through: not so much for the deep spiritual reflection or devotional reading, so much as to remind myself of the story as a whole from beginning to end.
It took two years, because I would read large chunks but then read smaller chunks and really stop, take some time, and "chew" on them.
A great read even when you already know the ending!This is maybe my seventh or eighth time reading through the ESV and it's definitely my favorite for daily/yearly reading.
