https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/47751.Locked_in_Time
I've no idea why, but this book terrified me so badly as a child that I hid it behind my parents bookcase. I can't remember anything that scary about it, but I was literally afraid of the book itself.I also thought for a while that the ghost of Abe Lincoln lived in my closet. I don't think a particular book caused that. I was just a very weird child.
The book was interesting and fast paced enough to keep one reading but I had a few major issues with it.
First, the entire book is premised on the idea that the only thing of concern for the female characters is maintaining or achieving physical beauty for the purpose of keeping or attracting men.
She also manages to, inexplicably, maintain respect for a father who has very little regard for her physical and emotional well being.
Third, Nore's dad is an immature, selfish bastard and terrible father whose inexcusable neglect of his daughter is entirely ignored throughout the book.
This is my least-favorite of Lois Duncan's books.
It's also the only one I DIDN'T read as a teen since it was published after I had graduated from the YA section (and yes, there was a YA section at my library back in those olden days.
I don't know if this one packs less of a punch than her earlier works because it was written later in her career, or if Lois Duncan is best read when one is young and just discovering supernatural suspense fiction.I still LOVE Summer of Fear and Stranger with My Face and Down a Dark Hall but when I reread them now I am transported back to when I read them as a kid, and can remember and revisit the thrills and chills and fascination I felt then.
Lois Duncan is good with building atmosphere, both environmental and emotional.
The story was set in Louisiana and the descriptions of the surroundings and even the weather were very well done.
Duncan also created a very creepy feeling from the very beginning, but I found the foreshadowing to be a bit heavy-handed.I might have really liked this book had I read it when I was in middle school.
There's not much depth to any of the characters and no real exploration of the implications of the strange secret the Berge' family hides.In all, it wasn't a bad read, but I feel like it could have been more than it was.
I thought it was a really good book over all, it had great detail and lots of cliff hangers, I feel that it was kinda to hard to get into until the middle book.Its about Josie who's mother died and her father got remarried in less then a year, and Josie makes some bad decisions along the way .
31/2 Stars
There is something about Lois Duncan, that even when you know what's going on early on, you just don't believe it. She can really write an eerie story!#rereading for a school project. Yippee!
While I was reading I was thinking about how it would all tie together, seeing as the book was really short, but it ended really well!
I can't believe that (view spoiler)[Lysette would leave Josie behind, and that Gabe would actually run too, but soooo glad Gabe gave Josie the keys to the cabin.
All of the proof though, gone :( (hide spoiler)]Wonder how it all ended when (view spoiler)[her dad figured out about Josie's immortality.
(hide spoiler)]One thing about the book that annoyed me was the narrator's voice, and the southern accent.
Otherwise, the pacing is good and it's a light, easy read.But the most frustrating thing would have to be Chuck Robbins, our heroine's father.
Chuck is pretty smitten with his new wife and basically stands up for her and his new step-children every time they get into a confrontation/fight with Nore.
He also says he wants to reconnect with Nore after the whole tragedy with her mother's death, but throughout the book he's way too wrapped up in his work or his new wife to actually sit down and have a proper conversation with his daughter.I didn't like Chuck, if you can tell.Now, on to more serious issues.
Through conversations she has with elderly neighbors and residents of the town, Nore's seemingly crazy suspicions about Lisette, Gabe, and the entire Berge family start to grow.
Determined to make her father come to his senses and see the truth, Nore rushes to solve the mystery of her new family before her time at Shadow Grove runs out.When I think about this story now, years since I last re-read it, I am still instantly filled with the same overwhelming emotions--an appreciation for the heady beauties of the Deep South mixed with a sense of impending doom.
Fun fact: this is easily my favorite Lois Duncan book and it was the first one I read.It's just as suspenseful as her others, but it also is a little more Gothic.
There's a big question (at least as I read it) about how much is real and how much is in Nore's imagination.
(I love stories like that, where you're not entirely sure what the true story is.)And when I re-read it for this feature, it was so much scarier than I remembered it being.
I feel like one of the creepiest things is the fact that you can know something WRONG is happening but no one will believe you.
Locked in Time by Lois Duncan is a fantastic read!
After Nore moves in with her father and stepmother, everything seems awkward with her new step-siblings.
Things seem even more awkward when the step-family acts strange, not like human beings, or what human beings do on a regular basis.
Nore is then determined to gather information on the history of the family in order to tie everything together.
I enjoyed this book so much because the characters are realistic.
I read this book nonstop, my eyes pacing back in forth.
If you're looking for a plot twist read, I recommend this to you!
This book was amazing!
This is one of the few books that I liked to read that wasn't about sports.
I would definatly recommend this book to a friend or to anyone else.
When you read this novel, you can't put it down.
It gets really suspenseful and you never know what is going to happen next.
That is how I was, I couldn't put the book down because it was so good.
Lois Duncan is my favorite author and he writes the best horror/mystery books in my opinion.
If you are ever looking for something to read, read Locked in Time.
Interesting story. Had I known it was meant for a younger reader, I probably wouldn't have read it, but it was a nice break from grown-up books. Good story, good characters, good flow. I will definitely recommend it to my daughter in a few years.
3.5 stars
(view spoiler)[ This was a random read and I enjoyed it.
It was a small book that flew nicely.
It was about a family who seemed to never age and there relationship with Nore and her father.
I liked Nore as a character as I felt she was relatable.
I disliked Lysette as I thought she was selfish, particularly to deprive her children of growing up and experiencing life just so she could never age.
I was happy with the ending and was glad that Josie could stay with Nore and not with Gabe and Lysette.
(hide spoiler)]
Another excellent YA written by the late, great Lois Duncan. She's a cut above other YA Horror/Suspense writers of the time. This story was both eery and moving - I had to stop reading late at night as I was genuinely creeped out!
While the initial meeting is a bit tense, Nore soon finds that Lissette and her two children are not really that bad.
Even though Lissette's family has resigned themselves, mostly, to their fate; they do still try to give Nore a way out, even though she can't really take the offers because of her father.
I get that Nore, understandably, is not willing to give Lissette's family the benefit of the doubt due to the events of the story.
Some of Nore's action's come across as tone deaf towards the end of the story to me though.
Even though Lissette's children seem apathetic towards the events, they do *try*.
Nore joins her father for the summer to get to know her new family.
Thirteen year old Josie is a bit of a dramatic challenge, and Lisette, her step-mother seems to be holding in her own secrets.
While spending time at the old plantation, Nore begins to notice things about her new family that just do not make sense.
I found myself annoyed at Nore's father this time through.
He really did not seem to put much time into Nore; he was quick to side with his new family over her every single time without truly hearing her out.The setting of this book was beautiful.
Nore’s mother had died because somebody hit her with their car, her step-mother’s husband had died because he was really sick, and a step-brother had died a few years ago.
Nore thinks that it’s not true because it’s just a dream but few days later, she has a dream about her mother telling her to get out of the house again.
She noticed that something strange was going on because her step-brother Gabe didn’t help when Nore fell out of their boat.
Every time when you read a page, it makes you think a lot because it is so mysterious.
Chuck is her father he is a famous author, after they wanted to make his big book (life in the fast lane) in to a screenplay for a movie he moves to Louisiana, and meets Lisette.In locked in time the plot is, Nore goes to live with her dad and new step family.
Soon after that Lis and her son Gabe try to kill Nore in a fire but fail and in doing that they kill themselves.
Nore leaves to go back and live at her home in New England.
I thought the first person narrative added to the tension, of this particular story, as you could really imagine you were Nore going through all these terrifying experiences.
The doomed friendship between Nore and Gabe was also one of the highlights and the way the story cleverly unfolds from a seemingly ordinary tale of parental remarriage and the respective teenagers having to deal with this, to something altogether more sinister, is very well paced.
I couldn't tell where this story was going to go, while I was reading it, which was very refreshing.
I actually found myself biting my nails, as the book wound to its end, wondering whether Nore was going to escape with her life or not.
However, she build tension slowly, the characters are relatively interesting and creepy, and I loved the setting (south Louisiana).
Though some of the dialogue and references are dated (such as the opening of a new disco in town), readers will still be able to enjoy the suspense and building tension of the plot.
The south Louisiana locale is the perfect setting for the sinister story; voodoo plays a large part in the family’s secret, Nore feels out of place in Creole culture, and the environment (shady trees, strange flowers, foreboding river) itself add to the air of mystery in the story.
Nore's mom died and she's shocked to discover that her father has suddenly remarried a new woman while she's been away.
Furthermore, Lisette is a bit too perfect, as are her teenage kids.
Nore's mother comes to her in dreams trying to urge her and her father to escape the stepfamily, but she has no power, and everyone is bamboozled by these creepy strangers.
Furthermore, they keep making comments that either make it clear they're hiding something or imply they have been alive for more than 100 years.
Nore was very a very sympathetic character from the beginning, and having her thrown into a new situation allowed for us to naturally be introduced to a new location and characters with her.
Too many times, truths are painfully obvious to the reader, while the main character stumbles along blindly looking more and more stupid as these glaring facts pile up.
Duncan avoids this by having Nore pick up on things very quickly and investigate them when given the opportunity.
My only complaint is that the conclusion seemed a bit rushed with the fate of two of the characters taking place off screen.
What I like in a story is tension and suspense, and Lois definitely delivers both in this book.
If you enjoy modern teen fiction, you'll probably not relate to the main character.
But in all, the story was well paced and suspenseful.
Much more interesting to me than a lot of the modern YA that I have read.
But again, if you didn't grow up on 80s YA, you may have a tough time finding the main character credible because of the way she thinks and speaks.
I got nostalgic for a time when supernatural YA was more about suspense and uncovering secrets than hot guys.
I found it funny that someone commented that the females in this book are obsessed with beauty, because the females in today's books are obsessed with male beauty.
Not that I don't enjoy a hot guy as much as the next girl, but the heroine in this book actually rejects the hot guy when he suggests running away together.
She doesn't melt and jump his bones.Although readers might guess the mystery that is foreshadowed in this book, the suspense lies in if Nore will discover it in time to save herself.
It wasn't as good to me as The Twisted Window or Down a Dark Hall; it was a little slower in building up the suspense and didn't reveal as much as quickly as the other two.
I enjoyed the storyline, and in fact, as I was telling a friend about it, two other people overheard and seemed fascinated with the concept as well.
At first, I thought the first-person narrative was too mature for a seventeen-year-old character, but in the end, it made sense because Nore isn't just telling her story--she's writing it.
I recommend the book to people who like young adult suspense.

Not bad. It reminded me of the teen angsty/horror/suspense/thriller movies that were ubiquitous in the mid to late 90's; where teenage characters have to defeat the slasher/ghost/alien/evil adults. I loved those movies as bad as some of them were. Considering this is the same author that wrote one of them (I Know What You Did Last Summer), it fits. Maybe a bit anti-climactic, but still a solid, albeit short, read.
