https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30016.The_Naked_Sun
The story arises from the murder of Rikaine Delmarre, a prominent "fetologist" (fetal scientist, responsible for the operation of the planetary birthing center reminiscent of those described in Aldous Huxley's Brave New World) of Solaria, a planet politically hostile to Earth, whose death Elijah Baley is called to investigate, at the request of the Solarian government.
Robot 4:::speculation on future of human life, part two:: ::humans on colony worlds portrayed:: ::but humanity is just as limited as ever:: ::humanity will bring its baggage wherever it goes, even the stars:: ::these Solarians are like Earth humans:: ::they build up walls between themselves:: ::they are afraid of contact, of touch, of affection:: ::they are like old school robots:: ::fortunately new model robots are not afraid of such things:: ::modern robots are very affectionate, just not slo
Robot 4:::speculation on future of human life, part two:: ::humans on colony worlds portrayed:: ::but humanity is just as limited as ever:: ::humanity will bring its baggage wherever it goes, even the stars:: ::these Solarians are like Earth humans:: ::they build up walls between themselves:: ::they are afraid of contact, of touch, of affection:: ::they are like old school robots:: ::fortunately new model robots are not afraid of such things:: ::modern robots are very affectionate, just not sloppy about it:: ::modern robots are very tasteful and tactful when displaying affection:: ::poor humans will never be as good as the modern robot, alas, the tragic simple things:: ::perhaps they just need a hug::
A mystery to robots why humans always murder each other.
It's the purest speculation, but I have a theory that Isaac Asimov may have had an affair with a Swedish woman somewhere around 1955.
Well, he wrote two novels in rapid succession, The End of Eternity and The Naked Sun, which, very unusually for the early Asimov, contain sexy female characters that play an important part in the story.
Both of them have Swedish-sounding names with romantic associations.
The woman in Eternity is called Noÿs (Swedish nöjs, with a soft j, "content oneself, be pleased by"); the one here is called Gladia (Swedish glädje, also a soft j, "happiness").
In The Caves of Steel, I was most fascinated by Elijah Baley's world, an Earth with crowded underground cities and a populace used to eating yeast, but terrified of the open sky.
Which is why Baley is imported from Earth to solve a Solarian murder mystery: the murderer had to have actually seen the victim, and this is simply not done on Solaria.
The murder is solved along the way, of course, and the workings of Asimov's positronic brained robots are further developed.
It was great to get a wider look at the spacers, though the Solarians are by no means typical.
Big ideas, structured worlds, and great writing.
El planeta giraba locamente, eternamente..., giraba, giraba..."Lije Baley es solicitado por el gobierno de Solaria, uno de los cincuenta Mundos Exteriores habitados por los espaciales, para llevar a cabo la investigación sobre el asesinato de Rikaine Delmarre, un ingeniero fetal.
Con respecto al tema cultural, Lije sí que la tuvo difícil, dejar sus Ciudades subterráneas, sus bóvedas de acero, su familia, para encontrarse en un planeta como Solaria en donde las costumbres son ridiculamente distintas a las de la Tierra.
Entre esta novela y Los robots del amanecer existe una historia corta llamada Mirror image que tuve la oportunidad de leer en El robot completo, tal vez valga la pena una releída.
Nutshell: superstar earthling detective imported to dyslibertopian planet to investigate murder.Libertarian dystopia is Solaria, a planet of 20,000 human persons who live on separate estates, worked by 200,000,000 robot slaves (28-29).
FTL magic: "It lasted an instant and Baley knew it was aa jump, that oddly incomprehensible, almost mystical, momentary transition through hyperspace" (16).Some bad lay interpretation of law: Elijah notes that a robot is incompetent to testify on Earth (80), and Daneel suggests that "a footprint can" despite being much less human than a robot.
Nifty that the "human-robot ratio in any economy that has accepted robot labor tends continuously to increase despite any laws that are passed to prevent it.
Kraj je zaista dobar, Asimov na inteligentan nacin predstavlja dve razlicite stvari kao lice i nalicje jednog istog problema - udaljavanje civilizacija od onih vrednosti koje ih cine ljudskim.
Solarija i Zemlja su daleki ne samo fizicki vec i u svakom drugom smislu a opet su tako dekadentni da ih to spaja vise nego sto ih sve ostale stvari cine razlicitim.
Sto se detektivske strane romana tice tu moram biti ostriji prema Asimovu i reci da nema neke preterane fascinacije.
Imam neki osecaj da detektivski slucaj u knjizi postoji samo da bi se oko njega gradila Asimovljeva razmisljanja na socioloske teme.
Sve u svemu relana cetvorka za ovo delo.
I love Asimov's Robots universe, all the problems it has and this one in particular is completely page turner and interesting.
Just read this beauty, please.Que buena secuela.
Si esas últimas páginas no te hacen querer seguir leyendo a los Robots de Asimov, nada lo hará.
Esta es una buena idea.
Y lo mejor de todo es la forma tan fluida de escribir que tiene el autor, la ciencia ficción puede ser muy tediosa pero Asimov nació para escribir este género y se nota.
No tenía tantas ganas de leer Fundación y Tierra como ahora que he leído El sol desnudo.
The Naked Sun was even better than Caves of Steel!
Asimov’s Robot series are probably one of the greatest sci-fi series of all time.
I really love these books.
Foundation was great but these are better.
I liked how Asimov tried to use sci-fi in other genres.
I thought Asimov was a good sci-fi author after having read the Foundation series but after getting into his Robot series makes him a great author in my mind.
He deserved every award he got and I’m excited to read more of his work.
My father brought me this book and it is one of the many things for which I will forever be thankful to him.The disclaimer having been delivered, you can’t be surprised at my rating!Much like Caves of Steel, the book before this one, this reads like a classic murder mystery with the flawed but lovable hard-boiled detective… but is all out classic science fiction as well.
I only mention the bit of romance because it is actually pretty unusual in any Asimov book.
Makes me feel I can’t wait to read the next book!I highly recommend this book to lovers of classic science fiction and/or robot stories!
Espectacular. Me encantó de principio a fin, además, sentí que estaba leyendo algo de Agatha Christie pero ambientado en el espacio, así que lo amé doblemente jajajaja muy muy recomendado
This is the second book of the Robot series taking place shortly after the excellent The Caves of Steel.
Like The Caves of Steel, this story is structured as a murder mystery though this one is set on the Spacer world of Solaria.
Solaria has a rigidly controlled population of only twenty thousand with a robot population of over two hundred million that cater to their every need.
Communication is done via holographic telepresence (called viewing, as opposed to in-person seeing) and personal contact is the society's strongest taboo.Asimov, always a master of big idea science fiction explores the problems that result form a society so rigidly controlled and isolated from human contact and he does so, as always, very well.
This is the second book of the Robot series taking place shortly after the excellent The Caves of Steel.
Like The Caves of Steel, this story is structured as a murder mystery though this one is set on the Spacer world of Solaria.
Solaria has a rigidly controlled population of only twenty thousand with a robot population of over two hundred million that cater to their every need.
Asimov, always a master of big idea science fiction explores the problems that result form a society so rigidly controlled and isolated from human contact and he does so, as always, very well.

3.50Me gustó, y la investigación del asesinato me resultó más interesante que en Robot #1; hasta incluyó homenaje, intencionado o no, a Sherlock Holmes (expresamente) y a Poirot (sutilmente). No es el tipo de historia que muestre la psicologîa de los personajes, no todos tienen que tener esta característica, desde ya, diría que esto es algo que me atrae en un libro; aún así me enganchó desde el principio. Se supone que todas las historias nos hacen pensar de algún modo, obviamente, pero creo que algunas o muchas además nos hacen observar "más lentamente" el entorno o a nosotros mismos.
Mi s-a părut o carte care tratează problema dezumanizării sub influența tehnologiei. Oare nu ne îndreptăm rapid spre o astfel de societate?
Sve što je Isak napisao je da se čovečanstvo selilo van Zemlje, valjda se diverzitet podrazumevao?I tako gosin'Bejli zapali na svetlosnim i svetlosnim miljama daleku Solariju, planetu kolonizovanu pre trista godina od strane ljudi koji su došli pak sa treće planete na kojoj su živeli najmanje još toliko vekova i prikan se bez problema (ili neke napomene!) sporazumeva sa tim skorojevićima.
Ako čovek npr.nešto ružno sanja i recimo zapomaže, zove u pomoć, ili čak šta više samo ječi a robot svojim opažanjima ne vidi pretnju, šta će se desiti?
And Daneel, the robot who assists him in the first book, meets him there as well.The society Isaac Asimov builds and suggests here is interesting -- I love his concept of how humanity turns out.
Or, rather, I love the way he thought: I don't like the idea.
I like that Elijah could understand it, too, see Earth becoming as insular as Solaria, in its own way.I also enjoy the personal connection between Daneel and Elijah.
I liked the rapport between Gladia and Elijah, too: that relationship was far from simplistic.The mystery itself, I think I had an unfair advantage, but I figured it out quite easily.
A decent detective story and a decent robot story in one book. The world building deserves applause.
This one's set on a planet where the people are so isolated that personal interaction has become taboo.
This makes the inseparable Daneel and Elijah raise some eyebrows.
Witness the scene where they're conducting an interview over the 3-D viewer-thingy, and the woman starts acting uncomfortable and asks Elijah if she can ask a "rude" question about him and Daneel.
I expected her to ask if they were gay but what she really wants to know is if they're in the same room together.
Considering how the people on this planet only meet face-to-face in order to reproduce, she's basically asking the same thing, just in a different way.
The Naked Sun (Robot #2) (Foundation Universe #4) Second book in the Robot series, and # 4 in the proposed reading order that I'm following for the Foundation series.I really liked the "chemistry" between Elijah Baley and R. Daneel Olivaw, the two main characters, while they get another murder case to solve. The descriptions of Solaria's customs were fun, though a little naive, and we get another look at the interaction between the earthmen and the spacers.
It sounds a little preachy at times, although I'm not sure of his point.
Perhaps that robots are not going to replace humans any time in the far future.The main human character, a plainclothes detective from Earth, is often a bit of a jerk to me.
He doesn't like having robots doing everything for him, so he'd rather spend a lot of time figuring out how to do it himself.
And he tries to insult robots a lot of time, even though that's not really possible.
He's afraid of nature, the outdoors, real food, and can't understand why people would let their time of day be controlled by the position of the sun.
These parallel each other so well, and the added science fiction element makes the discovery aspect of a mystery all the more fascinating as we learn the rules of this strange new world along with our clues.
Asimov seems to have found this parallel as interesting as I do, as he wrote three novels following Elijah Baley, an earthman and plainclothes police officer, who frequently gets caught up in robot related mysteries.
It was a plot point, but more than anything, it was a constant element towards the world building and view of the characters.The second novel expands upon this in an absolutly fascinating way.
Wow.The Naked Sun gives us a look at the mysterious Outer Worlds, first mentioned in The Caves of Steel.
Lige Bailey finds this open, practically empty environment poses both the challenges of solving the mystery and of adapting his agoraphobic nature, thanks to a lifetime of living in underground cities on overpopulated Earth.Asimov has fun looking at the sociological effects of a high-tech, low population world.
I was fascinated by Asimov's contrast of Elijah Bailey, used only to an overcrowded Earth, with the outworld Solarian society which had open space, eugenics, and many robots.
However, in the first book, the protagonist did everything he could to not investigate the crime until the very end when he guessed correctly.This time we get a true, if not textbook, detective novel.
There are certainly robots and a new world and culture to explore, but the main plot is the solving of a crime.What's more, everything which happens in the book is directly relevant to the plot.
It all ties together quite well and the ending certainly made the book.The strengths of this book are the world and of course the robots.

I have read this book once or twice before, but remembered almost nothing about the story.I need to get going on the rest of the Foundation Universe Series, before I forget too many details from this book and The Caves of Steel. I am thinking that there are some ideas here which lead up to what Hari Seldon was thinking about.
En este libro nuevamente se discute el impacto de los robots en la sociedad humana. Tiene muchos temas de reflexión que acompañan la trama principal que es sobre un asesinato en una sociedad de funcionamiento perfecto. Me parece mejor desarrollado el personaje de Elias Baley, un tipo brillante y tosco, que en el anterior libro de las Bovedas de Acero. Me encantó esta lectura aunque esperaba un mejor desenlace.
En éste nos volvemos a encontrar con un asesinato misterioso en el que los robots son de nuevo objeto de sospecha por parte del detective.
En cambio en la Tierra vivían aislados bajo tierra en grandes ciudades herméticas cuyo contacto con robots era mucho más limitada, con una vida social completa y un aislamiento total del resto de la Galaxia.
El asesinato en sí no ha despertado demasiado mi interés, pero sí lo ha hecho la evolución social que muestra Asimov de Solaria, mucho más avanzada que la Tierra en muchos aspectos, aunque no por ello mejor.
As with The Caves of Steel, its another mystery book that uses robots and Asimov's three laws as devices. Its really interesting on how he plays with it this time. While the previous book was set in a crowded city hidden from the sky on Earth, this one was set on a sparsely populated world with open skies and lots of robots. The people living there don't really even want contact with each other and don't like seeing each other in person. So how does one commit a murder>
