https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/926908.Gnomes
I can't say he looks like the Travelocity gnome...
We showed up at this woman's door and asked her if it would be okay if we dug something up out of her yard, that I was the former tenent and I had buried my dead dog's ashes out under the tree.
She looked at us like we were insane and said, uhm, okay.So we proceeded to dig.
it's looking at you.I say the gnomes took that gold.
now my dad sort of looks like one of those damn lawn gnomes.
This book fascinated me as a kid -- my dad was an engineer, so I was drawn to the technical drawings, diagrams, and labels.
Within the sphere of the fantasy geek, I was most drawn to the "complete world" authors like Tolkien, authors who didn't just create characters and plots but entire worlds, cultures, and linguistic systems.
It's telling that my favorite part of "Return of the The King" is the appendices, and I spent many hours translating phrases into Dwarven Runes.This book fulfills that same craving, as the authors meticulously detail the fictional lives and societies of Gnomes with such a high degree of specificity that you begin to wonder if, just maybe, they had first hand experience with their subjects.
Tom Robbins once wrote, "Those who shun the whimsy of things will experience rigor mortis before death." So if you think you're too sophisticated for this big, delightful book, check your pulse and the rigidity of your limbs!
This is the definitive work on all things gnome.
Playful and whimsical for sure, but these guys take their gnome studies seriously.
It took me a long time to get through the book because I spent a lot of time just gazing at the paintings.Thank goodness there are only 2 or 3 snotgurgles left in the world!
Che ricordi... lo sapevo a memoria, conoscevo tutte le abitudini, usi e costumi degli gnomi.Mi ricorda tantissimo la mia infanzia, passavo un sacco di tempo a sfogliarlo e a costruire con la mente viaggi fantastici insieme agli gnomi.Forse le grafiche oggi risulterebbero poco accattivanti, ma secondo me è un must have per i bambini!!!
or scary?.........Mostly cute, with a dash of "um, really...!?" tossed in that will probaby count as "scary" for those of you not already predisposed to like gnomes.Now, I admit that I have not read this word-for-word as it's much longer than I was expecting, but I've done a fair amount of perusing and my review is based off this.First of all, the entire idea is absolutely fascinating and charming--a little exploration of the lives of gnomes, presented as if it is a factual account, like a field study.
Gnomes is a great '70s, realist-watercolor-illustrated, cryptozoologist-fantasy that started the whole popular craze of the tiny, red-dunce-capped, earth-dwelling folk called 'Gnomes'.
Written as a Field Guide on the habits and habitat of these wee folk who would later take over gardens the world around.At second glance it's sort of surprising this book made the shelves at my elementary school's library.
Some of the images are down right graphic and gruesome.
To be honest I'm not sure it was given much scrutiny, it's about elves right?
Yay!
Otherwise an enjoyable book for the coffee table.
My grandparents owned a copy and we kids enjoyed hearing stories about gnomes "Nissen" and tales of Norway my grandmother heard from her grandmother.
They picked up a copy of this book and dressed their newborn son up as a gnome for Halloween one year.
Another reason we loved this book is because it was the basis for one of our favorite TV shows "David the Gnome" on Nickelodeon.
The stories of gnomes and the show have been passed on to the next generation and I hope the book will get passed down as well.
I've loved this book for a long time, but keep forgetting to name it as one of my favorite books of all time.
For posterity, I'll do that here--this book and The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy (and sequels) are my FAVORITE BOOKS OF ALL TIME.
And Rose just gave me my very own copy!!For those of you not familiar with this awesome book, it is written as a scientific field guide to gnomes.
David & I read through it a little bit at a time.
I flip the pages & make like I'm exposing him to Magical Knowledge, because I am.
The festival able of Beltane this fun book full of illustrations & serious facts for 'nuts' like me who believe in fairy's at the bottom of the garden instead of weeds.If enjoy good fun this book you love.
It's weird how popular this was. A lovely coffee table book about gnomes. Go figure.
This is one beautiful if slightly weird book for both children and older people as it’s a ride into a beautiful fantasy world.
In a way it is perfect for autumn evening with the coziness and long walks around forest that the gnomes take.
It is also a bit dark and violent sometimes in the Brothers Grimm’s kind of way.
What I didn’t like were the very technical fragments that I found simply boring but that’s me and it’s very subjective.
I would prefer to learn more about the court and the society of gnomes as such and not all the technical details of the machines they use.
It has become apparent that I have well and truly lost my sense of magic.
Eventually I left school and Gnomes behind, but for many years wished I could find another copy and revisit the world of Gnomes.
I eagerly handed over my $3, rushed it home, and discovered… the magic had vanished.
Instead I found myself questioning the sexism of the male gnomes being fully responsible for all the labour, and the confinement of females almost exclusively to the home.
But for those who are still young, and those successfully fighting the habit of growing up, enjoy Gnomes while you still can.
This was one of my absolute favorite books when I was young. My wonderful mother bought it for me as a birthday present on year, and it filled me with a sense of wonder. I would spend some of my afternoons wandering the forest, looking for potential gnome homes amidst the trees. My eyes ready to spot a pointed red cap, peeking out from behind a pile of twigs. This book still enchants me. A fabulous gift for children of any age.
My favorite line so far (aside from the fun illustrations):"although the female gnome has a substantial bosom, decreased gravity (at her height) allows her to go through life unencumbered by a brassiere."
How can I not have added this to my library before? I have had my edition since I was a child ( It was my lovely dad's)Its so worn and well loved that I'm almost afraid to take it from the shelf in case it falls apart.An absolute joy.
I loved reading this book as a kid - it was straight up hard lined magic and the little naked gnome ass really struck a chord with my fantasy addled brain.
Fantasy filled and whimsical always, being a gnome is serious stuff however.
All facts are covered in every aspect of gnome life; including courting, marriage and child raising, growing food, medicine, good friends, bad enemies, and relations with all manner of forest denizens.
I loved reading all of this...!The awesome illustrative artwork will transport you to another world; one filled with grand gnomes if you should only be learned enough to find them!

I absolutely loved the pictures and the "research" with diagrams about the gnome and the life of the gnome.
They were horrible, nasty creatures, and the descriptions of their terrible and cruel ways were bad enough, but the artwork of those stinking, bug-infested creatures!
My friend and I would scare ourselves to hysterics when we were about 10 or so, well into the nights when she was sleeping over, all on account of those trolls.
Not so scared of the trolls, now I can actually ingross myself in the artwork and storytelling of the authors, and love the book on a whole different level, which satisfies my otherworldly interests.
This coffee-table-sized book was a present my mom gave my dad back when I was very tiny. It rather quickly became (in all but name) my book: Dad didn't get very into it, but I was fascinated by the concept of this whole little world of sentient beings we just overlook in our hurly-burly modern world.I haven't looked between the covers in years- God knows what I'd think now.
Finally got my hands on this after years of wanting it. It is a first edition (in English) printing, too, and I got it for a whopping $3. It is gorgeous, and well worth the wait. The noise I made when I found it was -incredible-, and I REGRET NOTHING.I sat down with it and literally read it from cover to cover. It is delicious.447635325 stars, if I could. I love gnomes, okay?
I was given this book when I was a child. It was one of those childhood books that I constantly read and re-read. The stories and the illustrations have to been deeply embedded into my brain. The book is a lavish book. Huygen did such a good job with the details.
I don't know what it is...but I love this book. It just does such a good job of making it seem like a legitimate report on the habits of real gnomes. I fully intend to buy my children a copy one day. I didn't even read it until I was a teenager and still loved it.
I remember picking this up and thumbing through it in 1982. This time I actually sat down and read the entire thing. It was awesome and the final chapter was a testament to our society. Amazing that it was written in 1976. Highly recommend.
very, very cute book about Gnomes. Tongue in cheek. I was very fascinated with it when I was a child, and I still remember it to this day.
il mio libro amatissimo da piccola.
A great source on these creatures with wonderful artwork.
Gotta love the gnomes! Had this book when I was a child, and really really hoped I would run into a gnome somewhere in the woods one day! Loved it.
I love this book. The illustrations are absolutely fantastic and whimsical. And the stories and tales of the gnomes is fun for both kids and adults. This book has been enjoyed by myself, my Gramma, and every generation in between. Highly recommended to add to your collection. Nice "coffee table" book, too. :)
By "read" I mean "paged through to remember this book from my childhood without an in-depth re-reading" but you get the point.I don't remember some of the gender politics being so antiquated but past that it's almost exactly what I had in my mind - cute, whimsical fluff with some nice watercolors accompanying it.
Oh, I remember this! It was a big hit among the D&D and fantasy crowd. It was such fun, and the detailed drawings were terrific.
