https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/273685.The_Short_Happy_Life_of_Francis_Macomber_and_Other_Stories
Hands down my favorite Hemingway piece. Distill all that violence, impotence, and misogyny and you end up with this perfect little sip of disillusionment. I've reread it too many times to recall and it never fails to leave me smiling.
First read when I was 15 years old, never forgotten and it seems an even better story of cowardice and infidelity now.
This piece, like "White Elephants," is simple genius. It doesn't always take 300 pages to paint something unforgettable.
The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber is a collection of short stories by Hemingway, named after the primary story.These were really hit and miss for me.
The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber – Set in Africa, the story of a husband and wife on a hunting safari with a guide.
3/5.Which sort of leaves me confused – some really good and some really bad, some average in between.
I didn’t really like Hemingways The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories - which is his other short stories collection I have read.
Maybe I don't get his short stories?
I've forgotten most of what I learned as an English major, but one thing I'll never forget is the completely indescribable feeling I had at the conclusion of The Short Happy LIfe of Francis Macomber. Hemingway is an excellent story teller and I particularly love his short stories.
My first Hemingway story.
I actually researched which one would be best to read first, and many suggested The Old Man and the Sea. I decided to go with his book of short stories, which begins with this story.
I'm happy to say I loved it!The story began a little confusing to me with all this talk of a lion, but this is Hemingway we're talking about.
And there was.For such a short story, there's a great depth to the characters too.
And the dialogue?
The dialogue is fantastic!
I like short stories.I've read francis macomber three times.I can't think of any others I've read more than once.
The only good Hemingway I've read; and I've read quite a bit. A pleasant surprise, if pointedly misogynistic.
Era imbarazzatissimo per aver tirato fuori quella che era un po' la sua regola di vita, ma aveva già visto degli uomini diventare maggiorenni ed era sempre una cosa che lo riempiva di commozione.
Non era come se avessero compiuto semplicemente il loro ventunesimo anno.C'era voluta una caccia stranamente fortunata, un improvviso passaggio all'azione senza la possibilità di angustiarsi prima del tempo, per farlo succedere in Macomber, ma comunque fosse successo era sicuramente successo.
È che alcuni di loro rimangono per tanto tempo bambini, pensò Wilson.
Forse quel poveraccio aveva sempre avuto paura, per tutta la vita.
La cosa più importante che avesse un uomo.
The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber:Francis Macomber went to the trip for hunting with his wife to Africa safari.
When they were hunting lion Francis clearly showed to others he was a coward by hiding and running away, but all they people at the camp acted like nothing happened.
Margot knows that Francis is a coward so she knows he can't leave her.
Later as the story goes, Margot cheats on Francis by sleeping with Wilson.
The next day after Margot cheats on Francis gains courage when he hunts water buffalo.
In this part of the story, Francis is now fully courageous, bold, and willful.
Very interesting. Very catchy. One can't stop reading it until it meets its end.Francis Macomber is married to Margot Macomber who accompanies him on a Safari trip guided by the macho man Robert Wilson, the hunter.The trip is about hunting. A typical Hemingway theme to propose the strength or weakness of a man.The narrative is amazing and one has to read between the lines to figure out the feelings and to draw the complete portrait of the story.Hemingway's writings are too good to be reviewed, as Hemingway's style is a school.Indeed, Francis Macomber's happy life was short.
Honestly, so good. I am a growing fan of Hemingway! I think this is also a comment on masculinity in terms of sexual performance, and maybe even about big game hunting's sad evolution from what Hemingwa once knew. The tensions and frustrations built into the two male characters were absolutely brilliant. Margot did not feel quite as developed as Francis and Robert, but I suppose I should expect that from Hemingway. Absolutely worth a read!
I've never read Ernest Hemingway before, but this was a great place to start. I had to restart the piece several pages in due to confusion, but once I did, I was able to follow the story thoroughly and enthusiastically. I was pleasantly surprised by how captivated I became with the story. 5/5 stars!
The highest point of the narration is the well-structured description of the mean and sad grounds of expediency according to which Mr. and Mrs. Macombers got married, the way the reader is presented with the nature of their relationship and the consequences of the lack of love and mutual esteem between the two(If she loved her husband she would have not disregarded him when he got scared in the lion hunting episode).
Francis is eager to impress his wife in the lion hunting but he gets scared to death and istead of playing the 'hero' he acts like a 'coward'.
حياة فرانسيس ماكومبير السعيدة القصيرة وقصص اخرىالكتاب يتألف من 17 قصة قصيرة، يعرض بعضها فترة الحرب العالمية الاولى والثانية والتفاصيل الصغيرة كفرح الجنود بالمرسال لاعتقادهم بوجود الشوكلاته والسحائر او قدوم التعزيزات، وبعضها يناقش الانسان ووجوده في المجتمع، هل يوجد له اصدقاء يساندوه في الاوقات الصعبة، وهناك قصة تجد فيها تكرار الحياة لابطال القصة ..اكثر مايشد في هذا الكتاب النزعة الى التفاصيل والدخول في نفس الانسان ومايريد بذات اللحظة التي يعيشها.
I read an (excellent) essay once on the way that Margot somehow manages to be a feminist figure in this highly masculinist tale, with its rugged Robert Wilson and its titular "short happy life" having Francis Macomber, Man. I don't remember the argument, really. Just that there's an essay out there about this story.One of my favorite sentences (other than the very last one, which is also a good 'un):'"Why not let up on the bitchery just a little, Margot," Macomber said...'
God I hate this story.
The Short Happy Life of Francis Macomber is a challenge to the reader to not settle with life, but to pursue it instead.
Hemingway argues that to settle with one's life is to not truly live, and that by overcoming and by becoming and individual self, one lives.
While settling (merely passively accepting what happens in life) is problematic, Heminway's answer lacks lasting contentment.
Could Francis Macomber have had a happy life another way?
The more interesting story to me though are those who strive for contentment, not conquering for its own sake.
I love the little nuances Hemingway never fails to leave behind. It's those things that, when you look in hindsight, resonates within you as you let the significance of the story take form.In a nutshell... It's about a wealthy 35 y/o man who went on a safari with his wife, Margot, and their guide, Wilson. Throughout the book talks of getting 'a damn fine lion' or 'a handsome bull' and other masculine-affirming activities parallel with his turbulent marriage. Quite the tragedy, really, a cowardly man who finally found his roar only to be shot down once again to submission.
Great range. Hemingway can in one story make you actually dizzy with his acutely vivid and yet never grotesque descriptions of a bleeding wound, and in another, make you laugh out loud with the most minimal of words, like so:'"I'm sure he would have liked to meet you but he died last year. Shot himself. Oddly enough.""I am very truly sorry. I am sure his loss was a blow to science as well as to his family.""Science took it awfully well."'
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro, and Other Stories.Synopsis: Francis Macomber and his wife go on a hunting trip in Africa. A cowardly man gains courage, only to have it all end. Appropriately titled short story. One of my favorite Hemingway stories.
When did Hemingway not write about male pride in some way? Classic.
Rating: 4 / 5
Pff...women.Am I right?!
Haven't historically been a Hemingway fan, but LOVED this story! How ironic, don't you think? Sorry, but I laughed at the tragic ending.
I read for ORCL's American Short story class. I do not like Hemingway's misogyny and other personal failings, but as a short story writer, he is flat out brilliant.
Mad But Magic YA BlogTop Ten Tuesday: Best Beginnings and Endings!In which Sam rants about the English language, raves about Hemingway (as usual) and rambles on absolutely forever.
Better." He called to the driver and told him to spread a blanket over the body and stay by it.
You're perfectly all right.""Stop it," she said."There's a hell of a lot to be done," he said.
Stop it," the woman cried.Wilson looked at her with his flat blue eyes."I'm through now," he said.
I'd begun to like your husband.""Oh, please stop it," she said.
"Please, please stop it."That's better," Wilson said.
In the case of Hemingway, my feelings are mixed: I admire the writer and have enjoyed, in various degrees, the books I have read, but I dislike the hunter and the man who loved bull fighting.It has been explained to me that a bull has much more dignity when he is killed in front of thousands of people, than when an electric shock, or whatever they use nowadays to put to death an animal.My belief is that many years from now, our descendants will look upon us with about the same attitude we have towards slave owners: these were the times, but the cruelty cannot be denied.The fact that we still eat and hunt animals will change.
typical hemingway
Hemingway ska läsas på engelska. Till och med översättningen på titeln suger med den svenska versionen.
