https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/473557.The_Journal_of_Albion_Moonlight
Disturbing, experimental and brutal, The Journal of Albion Moonlight is a post-apocalyptic novel before such a thing was invented. Patchen doesn't require an invented fantasy apocalypse to tell this story, war is the apocalypse that ends life, morality, and rationality, War is madness. The story is nominally set during World War II but it really takes place in a mind at war. The Journal of Albion Moonlight felt like the pre-cursor to Naked Lunch, perhaps it influenced Burroughs. Patchen combines
​Disturbing, experimental and brutal, The Journal of Albion Moonlight is a post-apocalyptic novel before such a thing was invented.
Patchen doesn't require an invented fantasy apocalypse to tell this story, war is the apocalypse that ends life, morality, and rationality, War is madness.
The story is nominally set during World War II but it really takes place in a mind at war.
The Journal of Albion Moonlight felt like the pre-cursor to Naked Lunch, perhaps it influenced Burroughs.
Yet I reminded myself, this is what war does.
And it squarely lays the blame for war on Capitalism.
This is a gnarled, writhing and undulating experience of a novel.
A twisted and peculiar allegorical quest to divinity —actually into madness— inspired by the pre-Shakesperian lyric Tom O'Bedlam [TO'B written by an anonymous author].
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tom_o...Our protagonist sets out during wartime to traverse the devastation and horror of capitalism's war to reach the sanctity of a holier place...
I've already ordered several of Kenneth Patchen's poetry collections and one of his other novels Memoir of a Shy Pornographer.Publisher: http://www.ndbooks.com/ http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kenneth_...
First of all I bought this book for 25 cents at a small rusty library.
I was immediately seduced by its raunchy cover.
When I started reading it I thought it was dangerous because of its graphic bloody and sexual portrayal, but certain parts mostly its ill humored cleverly constructed remarks would make me burst out laughing, it didn't take itself so serious so I kept on reading till I felt addicted.
It is a restless book that travels in rogue allegory circles, yet never sways your mind away.
I believe this is one of the most quotable pieces of literature and probably the most unique word ordered travels I've taken my mind so far.
Делмор Шварц, работавший у Локлина в ту пору «литконсультантом», романа испугался и публиковать его не рекомендовал, и «Новые направления» опомнились только через 20 лет — и в 1961-м роман все же напечатали, а до этого он существовал только в авторском самиздате: т.е.
Хотя ретроактивно, понятно, разбираться в этом вроде бы легко, но все же скажу: в нем виден примерно кто угодно в той литературе, что нам так нравится: тут и Бротиган, и Пинчон, и Боб Дилан, и Барроуз, и Бартелми, ФОБ, и, понятно, Соррентино — и это только из тех, кого я сам с ходу определил, не особо разбираясь (потому что некогда было — я его читал).
Surrealist literature from earlier in the century, ~world war II.
A man seeks an enigmatic figure that is both demon and saint.
Convinced of crimes that he didn't commit.
Albion bares himself in naked brilliance.
Don't expect a solid storyline, or even a plot.
The book gives up on itself several times and tries to start over.
Not your typical fiction.
Albion is only on the surface, the author underneath.
The book is very trying on the reader, but is admirable in that it is written in the only way it could be written.
The plot describes the flight of a disparate group of Americans through the nation in 1940.
To describe the plot, though, is of less value with this novel than it normally would be.The book is experimental.
But on balance, this is a skillful and at times brilliant literary work.The author fills in an odd gap in historical perspective: how Americans, at least those with their eyes open, reacted to and thought about the horror of World War II in the two years before they themselves became ensnared.
Its daring experimentation and unusual niche make it a book that people on the lookout for something out of the ordinary will enjoy reading.
"Books--all those big, heavy-bottomed ashcans where men empty their lives. I like the leopard. I don't like Benj. Franklin."This book starts off with some interestingly hallucinatory and surrealistic prose, but cannot maintain the necessary mixture of abstraction, alienation, and violence. Soon it devolves into bad gender relations and attacks on language and tradition, as per above or: "Man has been corrupted by his symbols. Language has killed his animal." &etc.There are interesting aspects and themes present, but none of them are ones that aren't done better elsewhere. Try Derrida, Proust, Camus.
How to write from the core of the naked soul.
one of a kind; sort of a goth whitman? a feverishly scattered surrealist road trip through a WWII pre-beat post-apocalyptic dreamscape. studded with some beautiful poetry and great lines and aphorisms, but just... largely boring. probably best read a few random pages at a time.What is often mistaken for prose style is only a tone of false gravity.
I loved this book so much I carried it around for two years and still I come back to it at some point. He is like a high school friend I check on from time to time to say "Hi and Thank You for my addiction to you and many others authors because of you".
I read this book in college and I was afraid that it might not hold up on a 2nd reading... but Patchen is so quirky that there is really no time or place but the present to read this wonderful book.
I clutched this book as if it were a bible, when I was a teenager and if I were to read it again, I am sure my fingers would grip it just the same.
“Everyone is saying where can we hide when the war comes?
No one at all is saying: where can we hide the war?” (35)A formidable, deeply affecting novel/poem by a master of mixed media.
I read “Albion Moonlight” in bits and pieces, binged on it, ignored it for months only to take it up again, amazed by what I remembered and didn’t remember.
At other points I wanted to read nothing else.Patchen, a pacifist, self-published “The Journal of Albion Moonlight” on the eve of America’s entrance into WWII.
Kenneth Patchen's piece is poetic prose with poetry supplanted into work. Amazing images of Albion Moonlight and his travails with his companions as they travel the US during the world war two period.There is much allegory to images of Moonlight as the sacrificed son, much as Jesus was sacrificed. For a man who was bed bound due to a spinal condition, Patchen conjures up images as the painters of the Impressionist movement did with paint. The book may remind readers of Joyce's Ulysses, but this is easy to read. Highly recommend this one.
Perhaps my most favorite book of all time? At least in the top five. This is also easily one of the key novels in helping me develop my voice as a writer -- Patchen is essential, especially if only as a creative entity. I categorize this book as "rare" because I never find people have read it, let alone have heard of him or remember him and securing a copy of the book, even in the shoddy state mine is in, took nearly a month via online resellers!
You have to be ready for this one...It challenges all assumptions. One of the great anti-war books in literature.
They take us to the next evolutionary level… they are our visionaries headed in a back-words directionhowever, a Poet writes-hard with soft-eyes to swell from the cocoon of his words so they fly as moths to your flame – they don’t light the fire, they lift up a mirror and show you the coals-glowing in your eyes … and this Kenneth does with his mind-mirror of many reflections
The author of this book was so creative and his imagination so powerful that it shattered not only the laws of physics but even the laws of literature itself.
I have a copy which was signed by the author's wife, Miriam Patchen, who has by now passed out of and hopefully beyond this reality.Kenneth Patchen, the author, would surely be more well known had he not vociferously opposed all warfare, including World War 2.
I myself am not a pacifist, but it's too bad Patchen was robbed of his due because of his views.If the world were comprised of mostly intelligent, creative, sensitive people, Patchen might be the most famous writer who over lived.
Confession: when I was 18 The Journal seemed mysterious and psychological.The poet speaks for himself: "there can only be one action: what a man is. When you have understood this, you will be through with novels."What The Journal is not:a novel;a serious pacifist manifesto;a journey across America;disturbing or affecting.What The Journal is:Patchen's excuse to whine about literature;an undisciplined take-off on Hesse's Journey to the East;the epitome of misogyny;worshipful Marxist drivel;tiresome adolescent sex fantasy;200 repetitive pages too long.
This was the book I was hoping for when I was young, written by a "man of anger and delight" (Henry Miller), very poetic, dark, humoristic and moving, experimental in many ways (also typographic), but above all, driven by a tangible wonder. Unfortunately the dutch translator cocked up the translation, with the result that Patchen never really made it in the Netherlands, except in certain artistic scenes. But I was in the priviliged situation to read the American original first, and became a Patchen-adapt ever after, discovering volume after volume of literary wonderful prose and poetry.
A major influence on the Beats and collaborator with jazz musicians, Patchen somehow taps into the collective horror of World War II, penning a disjointed and surreal journal of a group of people fleeing and raging against a ubiquitous army of wolves. Phenomenal and chilling, this is the 40s, an emotional intensity never reached in the work of Pynchon, including the ballsy move of making both Jesus and Hitler misunderstood minor characters to his plot. A must read.
I read this book many years ago, shortly after returning from Vietnam. My recollection is that it contained some very intense writing with some quite remarkable prose; but then, maybe I was just in an intense mood, after a fairly intense period in my life. A friend allowed me to stay at his cabin in the woods, overlooking a lake in Kentucky in the new winter with no leaves on the trees and no snow on the ground, just grey sky all around.
NOT A REVIEW} Dick Bauerle called this "precious" writing. Seemed like a dream vision to me when I read it 50 years ago. Might could try it again. One of those dreams where you are travelling endlessly through a ghostly landscape.
Weird? Genius? It barely makes sense, but when it does just try and stop yourself from scribbling down whole sections of this book into your journal. It's stream-of-consciousness meets surrealism. You know, basically. Oh, and Kenneth Patchen is from Ohio, so, booyah.
Currently reading as the first book in my postmodern dive bar reading club. Location: Ventura, CA
a surrealist work that is anti-beat. thank christ. it is more poetic than kerouac could ever hope to be. fuck the beats, except the holy father william burroughs. fuck beat writing.
The greatest cry of love, mad murderous––for the 'human animal', I have ever read.
Read and reread. Infinite and finite.
One of the strangest book I've ever read. Don't ask me to explain it...
I found myself fishing for the poetic sentences, and slogging through Patchen's attempt at story-telling: the best I could make of it is a generalized rage at existence, and a thorough bewilderment c0ncerning humanity's purpose, cobbled together in a modernist format that only heightens the confusion of the attempted narrative.
Sure, you can keep reading in that static state, and be impressed by the language or the control, but you'll be at the same place at the end - after who knows how many pages - as you were at the beginning, enriched only by the dazzling effect of the language.
