https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/54984.La_catedral_del_mar
This is one of my favorite Spanish novels...
:) I've heard about this book, at that time just published in Spain, from his agent during Book Fair in Turin...
And by the time my plane landed in Belgrade Laguna had the rights...
:) I was so thrilled with the book that I immediately sold it to Bulgaria, Croatia and Slovenia, and became fairy editor for Falcones' agent...
I've met the author at Frankfurt Book Fair in 2007, but...
he doesn't speak English and my Spanish is not so good on speaking level, so we just smiled to each other and made a photo (I can't find anymore)...
1959) tem uma cena de abertura que deixa antever o contexto histórico da narrativa: Bernat Estanyol está a festejar o seu casamento com Francesca Esteve; inesperadamente, eis que se aproximam da celebração, sem serem convidados, o seu senhor feudal e dois ginetes.
19)Passados nove meses Francesca dá à luz um rapaz; apesar da violação sofrida no dia do seu casamento, o bebé revela uma marca que todos os Estanyol têm – “um sinal junto à sobrancelha direita”.Mais tarde, num contexto trágico Bernat decide fugir – para Barcelona - com o seu filho Arnau sob o desígnio de se tornar um homem livre e de escapar às atitudes cruéis e bárbaras do seu senhor feudal e da nobreza.
La narración recorrerá su vida y la de su hijo, quienes van a sufrir prácticamente todo lo que se podría sufrir en esa época y más, mientras cerca de ellos se construye la Basílica de Santa María del Mar, que no es una catedral.Entiendo que el autor –cuyo estilo me resultó comercial y gracias– haya querido mostrar que era una epoca dura, pero para mi gusto realmente se le fue la mano.
It is very important to know when you start this book that it is in fact based on the Chronica of King Pedro III.
However the book and the plot covers many, many other actual events: wars, the bubonic plague, the Inquisition, guild practices, treatment of women and Jews, in fact all aspects of life in Barcelona during the 1300s.
The book is more concerned with the unrolling of the plot than character analysis.
In fact it felt a bit cinematic.So this book provides great history in an engaging story, but without much sparkle I am very glad I read it.
Το μυθιστόρημα πέρα από το κομμάτι του μύθου, που είναι η ιστορία του Μπερνάτ και του γιου του Αρνάου, είναι ένα ιστορικό βιβλίο που ακολουθεί την πορεία της Καταλονίας όλου του 14ου αιώνα και την πορεία του βασιλιά της Πέτρου του Γ’.
Η καλοφτιαγμένη ατμόσφαιρα, οι πάμπολλες αναφορές σε ιστορικά γεγονότα, η μελέτη στην λαογραφία της εποχής κ η υπέροχη ένταξη της στο μυθιστόρημα δεν γίνεται να μην γοητεύσουν τον αναγνώστη.
Αυτή η κούραση όμως έφυγε όσο γρήγορα ήρθε, καθώς η ιστορία του ήρωα Αρνάου πήρε και πάλι το πρώτο χέρι και εγώ ακολούθησα ανυπόμονα.
Hefty historical novel set in fourteenth century Barcelona and revolving around the building of a cathedral (yes there are similarities to Ken Follett’s Pillars of the Earth).
Unlike Follett’s novel this is very much woven around fact and an actual building and events and is based on a contemporary chronicle.
The novel is informative and as it is based on historical fact I did learn a good deal about the history of fourteenth century Barcelona.
The ending was also a little too cosy and predictable,This sounds like I’m being rather harsh; the plot does move along at a good pace and there is certainly warmth to it that is endearing.
Siendo la primera novela histórica de Falcones, es la segunda que yo le leo, porque empecé por su segunda, "La mano de Fátima".
La verdad es que cansan ya un poco las más de 1600 páginas que he leído de ese autor, y pasará bastante tiempo antes de que agarre su tercera novela.
A los autores hay que dejarlos en barbecho.
Chico, pues son malísimos.Lo que sí le reconozco a Falcones es una excelente labor de divulgación histórica entre los lectores profanos en la materia.
Su documentación es rigurosa y no resulta fácil pillarle los sangrantes anacronismos que existen entre la pléyade de autorzuelos que buscan como garimpeiros fortuna en este género.
4,5/5¡IMPRESIONANTE! Hacía tiempo que no leía una novela histórica tan buena. Pasear por Barcelona en el siglo XII... ha sido maravilloso.Deseando que estrenen la serie, ya que he leído que han sido muy fieles al libro.
They don't talk like anyone real.There are many places that the story could be developed: the community of the bastaixos, the relationship of Joan and Arnau, regional warfare, restrictions on women.
It's like Moll Flanders--Arnau just goes from place to place, getting more and more successful but with very few insights into what he thinks or feels.
Cathedral lacks even that authenticity.I like my characters to do a little more thinking and my authors to do a lot less spoonfeeding.
I think you'd be better off reading a really good non-fiction book on the topic, though.
I read the book in English and perhaps it was not that good in translation. However, as a person who absolutely loved "The Pillars of the Earth" by Ken Follett, I thought that this was just a poor copy of the epic novel. "Cathedral of the Sea" is worth a read if you like historical fiction, but that's pretty much about it.

No leí este libro, lo viví... fue mientras trabajaba en la galería de arte y en los ratos libres adelantaba mi lectura en plenas calles del Barrio Gótico. Una forma muy didáctica, interesante e inteligente de conocer historia sobre Cataluña. Al principio no quería animarme a leerlo porque creí que era una especie de Código Da Vinci, pero resulto ser una excelente adquisición. Tanto que me animé a cargar el tabique desde Barcelona hasta México!. Altamente recomendable... lo terminé de leer en una semana más o menos. (y justo el 4 de julio).
Great book, couldn't put it down...

He achieves great military success against the attacking ships of the enemy king of Castille, and is elevated to the nobility while being forced marry the ward of the King, Eleanor who he does not love, as his heart belongs to the enchanting girl he adopted after the death of her parents, the attractive and lively Mar.Arnau is betrayed by his adopted brother Joan, who has become a cruel and narrow-minded inquisitor , who together with the evil Eleanor plan and execute the kidnap, rape and forced marriage of Mar. Arnau falls foul of the inquisition, and the author gives a great insight into the machinations of the Spanish Inquisition, and it's purge of Jews and 'Heretics'Meanwhile two women who have been earlier in their lives forced into prostitution, Arnau's mother (unbeknown to him) Francesca and Arnau's first love the alluring and goodhearted Aledis.
Opsežan roman o životnom putu Arnau Estanjola, kmetovskog sina - najprije kao dječaka koji na leđima nosi kamenje za izgradnju crkve u Barseloni, pa sve do uspona na društvenoj ljestvici i bogatstva koje sa sobom nosi mnoštvo problema.Dopao mi se opis izgradnje crkve i taj prvi dio romana dok je on još uvijek dječak je sjajan. Drugi dio romana više se bavi vojnim pohodima, inkvizicijom i to mi se malo manje dopalo, ali svejedno roman je zaista odličan. Laguna je izdala i dugo očekivani nastavak, Naslednici zemlje i to u dva toma. U planu je za čitanje :)
Muita maldade para o meu gosto...
O livro está bastante bem escrito e tem muita informação histórica sobre a Catalunha medieval, especialmente sobre Barcelona, mas só comecei a sentir-me interessada na história quando já ia a meio.
Enfim, nem todos podem ser o Ken Follett...It's really 2.5 stars rounded up.Too muck wickedness for my taste...
And I didn't feel any empathy with the main characters...The book is well written and it's packed with historical information on medieval Catalonia, particularly on Barcelona, but I only began to feel interested in the story about half way through it.Oh well, not everyone can be Ken Follett...
PopSugar Reading Challenge en Español25. Un libro ambientado en el marEs un 4,5. De verdad necesitamos esa opción, no es ni 4 ni 5. Precioso libro que me dejó un montón en el alma, aunque me haya hecho sufrir mucho por momentos.
Um pouco como quando esperamos tirar um 20 num exame, mas afinal só conseguimos o 18.Neste romance histórico, acompanhamos a vida de Arnau Estanyol, desde as dificuldades na sua infância até ao sucesso obtido na idade adulta como cambista.
A nível de enredo deixou-me um pouco a desejar, não porque seja mau, mas mais pelo rumo que por vezes desejamos que a história siga, quando no fim o autor opta por ir por outro caminho.
Apesar disso, foi uma leitura muito boa, que não posso deixar de recomendar.
Which I think has a lot to do with the football club Barcelona and the successes it has had with Dutchmen.The building of the cathedral Sant Maria de la Mar was an interesting historical place to build a tale around in which shows life in medieval Spain/Europa and shows the power of the elite and the place where the worker is relegated to.
the book covers many other actual events: the wars, the result of the bubonic plague, treatment of women and Jews, all aspects of society in Barcelona during the 1300's are told about.The book was an example of successful historical fiction a nice blending of soap and history.Well worth your time if you can enjoy the genre.
Una habilidad, para mi gusto, sorprendente!Por último, dado que la obra aporta importantes datos históricos de la "evolución " de nuestras sociedades (me refiero al tema de la religión), esto no hace mas que reforzar mi ya enraizados conflictos e inconformidad en contra de la estupidez humanda que permite que seres tan inescrupulosos como lo han sido nuestros "líderes religiosos" que se han dedicado a prostituir el amor y las enseñanzas que dejó Jesus a su paso por esta tierra.
Great epic book by Ildefonso Falcones providing a historical picture of medieval life, including the beginning of the Inquisition in Spain. No comparison should be made with The Pillars of the Earth as many reviewers are erroneously doing.
Dedicado à Virgem, sua mãe e com um percurso de vida extraordinariamente interessante, Arnau iria deixar, com o seu sangue, marcas nas pedras da igreja de Santa Maria del Mar, onde, desde o início da obra, trabalhara com enorme esforço mas também com extrema alegria.
Uma curiosidade: o palácio onde Arnau habitou com a sua família e que arrematou a um nobre seu familiar, está localizado na Rua de Montcada, muito perto da igreja del Mar, local nobre da Barcelona medieval.

Que bonito y que duro se me ha hecho el libro.
Arnau Estanyol pasa tantas cosas a lo largo de su vida que me tuvo sufriendo prácticamente todo el libro.
La forma del autor de narrar no sólo la evolución de sus personajes si no también la de la propia ciudad, es simplemente precioso.
Y me ha encantado saber un poco más sobre la historia de mi ciudad.
A pesar de ser un libro que impone por ser grueso, la verdad es que en absoluto se hace pesado y engancha desde la primera páginas.No apto para personas sensibles ya que corren el riesgo de llorar de lo lindo.
Le vicende dei protagonisti sono un modo: Bernaut scappa a Barcellona perchè le particolari leggi della città lo avrebbero posto al riparo dall’ira del signore feudale; la peste sconvolge le gerarchie sociali e chi prime era in basso può finire in alto…però l’autore si dilunga anche in spiegazioni storiche, come se fossimo in un libro divulgativo: a me quest’ultime parti piacciono lo stesso perchè sono un maniaco della storia, ma non tutti potrebbero trovarle interessanti.Lo stile.
Novela histórica que he disfrutado mucho, en ningún momento se me ha hecho aburrida, ha logrado engancharme siguiendo las aventuras de Arnau, desde que nace hasta que ya es un hombre totalmente adulto. Un personaje que me ha fascinado.
Mee ha encantado trasladarme al pasado para pasear por las calles de Barcelona donde yo vivo. Por lo demás, poco que decir, la historia ha sido maravillosa
En het laatste boek voor 2017 was een absolute topper. Zeker en vast aan te raden.
During a pleasant stay at a small hostel at the top of a steep hill, or possibly a small mountain in Sorrento, a young woman once discovered a bookshelf.
They had this hostel in common.
If it feels like a book sort of belongs in your hand, you know you're in for good ride.She read the book a little here, a little there, a little everywhere.
She also felt like throwing up for most of the ride.She loved the book so much she didn't have a heart to leave it behind for somebody else to read when she left the next hostel.
