https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25743.The_Slave

Translated from the Yiddish by the author and Cecil Hemley Description: Four years after the Chmielnicki massacres of the seventeenth century, Jacob, a slave and cowherd in a Polish village high in the mountains, falls in love with Wanda, his master's daughter.
Opening: A single bird call began the day.
Each day the same bird, the same call.An unusual love story, yet one, thankfully, that doesn't hover on sentimental hogwash.
So many questions to ponder over, so little time.Chmielnicki: the Cossack-Polish War 1648-1657: mass atrocities committed by Cossacks against civilian population, especially against the Roman Catholic clergy and the Jews.
Jako dobar stil pripovijedanja, to me oduševilo iako se, tu i tamo, ponavlja.
Odličan prikaz čovjeka koji je cijeli život bio robom - svoga gospodara, ljubavi prema ženi i konačno vlastite vjere.
Autor je tako fino iskritizirao sukob religija - mržnju i netrpeljivost prema pripadnicima druge vjere.
Bog je samo jedan (samo ga različito imenujemo) i ne vjerujem da nas mrzi i kažnjava zbog svake naše pogreške.
Tako to izgleda kada mi sami interpretiramo božju riječ i pitam se: zašto bi sve trebalo biti negativno.
Zašto ne vidimo samo ljubav i svjetlost?
Bilo bi nam lakše.
Naravno, sve to ako vjerujete.
Ovo je jedan izuzetan roman smješten 1648, u vrijeme nakon masakra nekoliko tisuća Židova od strane kozačkih hordi.
Ovo je dirljiva, tragična i izuzetno tmurna priča ljubavi, strasti, ali i vjere, pobožnosti i duhovnosti.
Ovo je divno, predivno napisana knjiga puna života i nabijena emocijama.
Wanda i Sara – dva imena jedne žene koja se zbog ljubavi odriče svega i zbog koje se Jakob bori sa samim sobom, ali i zbog koje stvara svoju dušu ponovo i makar i na kratko doživljava sreću zbog koje opstaje.
Jakov je rob Jana Bizika, u isto vrijeme rob vjere, tradicije, rituala da bi postao rob ljubavi, žudnje i strasti....
Η ιστορία του Ιακώβ και της Βάντας είναι μια μικρογραφία της εβραϊκής ιστορίας, από την Έξοδο και την περιπλάνηση στην έρημο του Σινά, μέχρι τις σφαγές του Χμιελνίσκυ και το σύγχρονο ολοκαύτωμα από τους Ναζί, μια ιστορία γεμάτη διωγμούς και εγκλήματα εις βάρος του λαού του Ισραήλ...Δυστυχώς στις μέρες μας έχουν αντιστραφεί οι ρόλοι του Δαβίδ με τον Γολιάθ...
Rijetko koje mi ponovo „legne“ Ovaj put sam se prevarila, jer začudo, nije bilo tako.Već na početku romana osjetila sam opet onu staru privlačnost, koja vas veže za neko djelo dok ga čitate, neku nevidljivu nit, koja vas spaja i koja koja vas prosto drži da roman ne ispustite iz ruku.
I realize that this is a love story. What I found charming about this particular love story is that I couldn't understand why it was called one. That is, until the end. The end is beautiful. I've read so many endings; endings that end with a sigh, with a cry, or with a laugh. But this one was perfect. I must admit I was sleepy when I read that last sentence, but I don't think I could've reacted to the finish of this book anyways. It was perfect.Like I said, for me, this was mostly a ...moreI re
It was perfect.Like I said, for me, this was mostly a ...moreI realize that this is a love story.
I must admit I was sleepy when I read that last sentence, but I don't think I could've reacted to the finish of this book anyways.
I must admit I was sleepy when I read that last sentence, but I don't think I could've reacted to the finish of this book anyways.
It was perfect.Like I said, for me, this was mostly a story on humanity.
Jacob was a learned and pious Jew, son of wealthy parents, who found himself a slave to a farmer in a remote mountain village.
Jacob's life from then on is one of perils and his search for redemption, taking him all the way to Israel as part of the early Zionist movement, at last reuniting with Wanda, and on to his final days where he finds peace and wisdom.Besides being a beautiful love story, the novel is also a contemplation of the place of religion in human society including the contradiction that it condemns believers who do not follow its commandments while it honors the phenomenon that spirituality can lift us above our animal nature.
Яковові здалося, наче птах літає тут ще від самого сотворіння світу.Далі синіли інші гірські хребти, а найдальші вершини було ледве видно, вони височіли, ніби безплотні привиди.
Читати старі тексти і знаходити в них втіху:(далі цитата-спойлер фіналу роману)(view spoiler)[Якову згадалися слова, які його тезка промовив на смертному ложі: «А я, коли я прийшов був з Падану, померла мені Рахіль у Краї ханаанськім на дорозі, коли була ще ківра землі, щоб прийти до Ефрати.
І я поховав був її там».Його також звати Яків; він також втратив кохану дружину, доньку поганина, на чужині; Сарру також поховали при дорозі, але вона також лишила йому сина.
In his earthy storytelling, where nothing is spared, where one gets the full arch of a story, populated with everything human experience can hold, one gets the satisfaction of a full course meal, unlike the trimmed down fast food of the po-mo or experimental kind.
We journey with Joseph, a Jew sold in slavery, for decades as his love for Wanda, a gentile, grows into something beyond passion, challenging and get challenged by the epoch, as we see them form a strange family, always threatened by people and tradition, and the hovering shadow of the attacking Cossacks.
In doing so, the people think she is deaf so they do not hide their real feelings for their neighbors and "friends".
He doubted everything, with, as the saying goes, the kind of doubt which 'the heart does not share with the lips.'" Pg. 119"Despite the thirty-odd years he had lived in the world, Jacob was continually astonished at how many Jews obeyed only one half of the Torah.
The very same people, who strictly observed the minor rituals and customs which were not even rooted in the Talmud, broke without thinking twice the most sacred laws, even the Ten Commandments.
Another time and place with which I was not previously familiar. 17th century Poland, the Jewish population is treated horrendously. They are displaced, murdered, sold into slavery. Not only has Jacob been subjected to this treatment by others, his relationship with a Gentile woman gets him into hot water with his own Peoples. There are many, many questions about faith and what it means to be faithful and to have a relationship with God. The writing was beautiful and I found myself struggling to put it down.
Dosta kratka, ali teška.. Ima previše ponavljanja istih stvari koje ako vas i previše ne interesiraju, postaju iritantne. :-( Jedva čekala da ju završim!Neka joj je i 2.5! :P
Following the Chmielnicki massacres of the seventeenth century, A religious Jew becomes a slave in a Polish mountain village.
They get rich from exploiting the poor people and hardly do anything to support the victims of the massacres.My feeling (and it is just my feeling) concerning this criticisms is that some of it(the exaggeration of observing all the religious rules that are between the believer and God) is aimed at the orthodox religious Jews of the time the book was written, and the seventeenth century story is just a cover.
" العبد هو عبد نفسه فقط " الرواية وجودية بإمتياز تذّكرنى بأعمال سارتر الأدبية .. الرواية تناقش أسئلة وجودية كبرى ولكنها تتطرح أسئلة ولا تعطى إجابة لكن سنجر أفرد صفحات مطولة يستعرض فيها المشاعر الإنسانية من الغضب والحب والشهوة والذنب والندم واليأس والأمل والإيمان والشك .. هل حقاً الإنسان يملك حرية الإرداة وهل يملك أمره تماماً وهل يتحمل عبء تصرفاته كاملة ؟!! كل تلك الأسئلة يُلقى بها سنجر فى وجوهنا ويتركنا نحن أيضاً فى نفس الحيرة .. أعجبتنى كثيراً نهاية الرواية وبكيت فى مقطع معين لأنى شعرت بما شعر به يعقوب .. الرواية جيدة جداً وأنصح بها ..
Ponovo čitanje posle 30 godina. Poslastica!
فهو قادر على أن يجتذبك لعالمه وأن يجعلك تغوص معه داخل الأزمات والصراعات النفسية التي يضع أبطال حكايته بها ..
ليجعلك تنشغل دائما بكيفية إيجاد حل يُخرج البطل من مأزقه .هنا أيضا اختار الروائي الساحر مكانا وزمانا جديدين ومختلفين ، بولندا " في القرن السابع عشر ، ربما أيضا هذه المرة اختار بطلا هاربا من مذابح هلكت فيها أسرته ، رضي بأن يحيا فوق الجبل كعبد فر من الموت ، الذي حصد أرواح سكان قريى بأكملها قام بها زعيم القوزاق" شميلينسكي" ضد الاستعمار الاستيطاني البولندي آخذا معه كل من يواليه ويقع تحت حكمه .

I have read the Bible, so I understood some of the references made, but I didn't understand all of them, since the Torah was mentioned and I'm not Jewish.
I hated finding references I didn't understand, although I learned more because of them.Great book.
The writing was brilliant and I loved it.I found some amazing quotes in this book that I have to share."...as Jacob looked about him, he saw that the community observed the laws and customs involving the Almighty, but broke the code regulating man's treatment of man with impunity" (part 1; ch.
Yet man's smallness was no less a wonder than God's greatness" (part 1; ch.
Four years after the Chmielnicki massacres of the seventeenth century, Jacob, a Jewish slave and cowherd in a Polish village high in the mountains, falls in love with Wanda, his gentile master's daughter.
Jacob is racked with guilt not only for the sin of marrying a gentile, but also for his life of ongoing deceptions in the name of love.
As is typical in life and the affairs of men, the relationships in this book are complex and compelling."A voice within (Jacob) called out constantly for Wanda." "The truth was that since childhood (Wanda) had been expecting and longing for (Jacob)."I was deeply touched by the power of Jacob and Wanda's profound love.
καλό και δυνατό, με όλη τη λαογραφία των Εβραίων να παίζει σημαντικό ρόλο. η πίστη και το πόσο μέσα της ζουν.... με πολλές βέβαια Παρασπονδιες

It is so rich in detail and yet nothing is superfluous; it is a story that deals with the real fundamentals of life -faith, hope and love.
Jacob never loses hope in God. There is a point when Wanda becomes more than just an object of desire.
Even Jacob seems to realize the Divine Hand at work, especially in returning to Wanda.
The theme of hope was especially strong towards the end of the story, when Jacob must go on alone.
However I think the book explores the divine nature of love in a most subtle and satisfying way.
This is a fascinating and nuanced work by a Nobel Prize winning 20th century writer of Jewish-themed novels who reaches for a big-picture historical/theological/philosophical perspective.
The situation faced by the Jewish community in Europe in the centuries following the post-Roman era dispersion is front and center and as one who knows anything about history might expect, it’s dismal and dangerous.
What’s really noteworthy here is that as bad as the Jews in this novel have it, Poland, the place where it’s set, was actually one of the better places for Jews to live back then (which says something about how bad other places were).But it wasn’t simply Jews/Good-Gentiles/Bad. The novel is much more challenging than that and really makes you work it you want to set up a good guys versus bad guys ledger.
The Slave is one of Bashevis Singer's strongest novels, and a good place to start if you have never read any of his books - if only because it is a short novel.
The historical setting also allows Singer to explore the mental world that traditional Jews had inhabited, in which the Bible and Talmud were intertwined with daily life, and the universe was suffused by angels, dybbuks and a phantasmagoria of saints and miracles.
That's what I find most alluring in the world this book creates: what was it like to inhabit such a universe, even as it collided with historical catastrophe and the moral failings of ordinary Jews?
En esta obra, Singer relató una historia de amor marcada por las adversidades que las leyes y las circunstancias personales de los dos protagonistas tenían consigo.
La obra supone una fuerte crítica a las normas que impiden al individuo actuar con libertad moral asustándole con la amenaza de no alcanzar la vida eterna.
Singer construye una sociedad enferma donde muestra su repulsión a los totalitarismos y cualquier tipo de radicalismo y donde alaba a las almas bondadosas, trabajadoras e ingenuas como las de Jacob y Wanda.
Now, some might agree with me and others may say that in that case, their lives wouldn`t have been as great or would have lacked His light.
Well, kiss my atheist ass, but going through hell doesn`t bring you any closer to heaven.
It just brings you pain and suffering.
People are fanatical about faith.Another thing that bothered me was the inequality in Jacob and Wanda/Sara`s relationship.
Sure, I`ll accept your religion.
Sure, I`ll die for you in a hostile land where everyone wants to kill me.
And, I`ll gladly do it all, if not for you, then because God wants me to.
روايه جميله جدااااا..أكثر جزء عجبني ..ألاول .."واندا"الست الي أتمنيت اكون مكانها ..الي بقت ف الجزء ا
Intense and beautiful, this book is equal parts love story and critique of religion and society. It is written in such a way that it's true nature and message isn't fully apparent until the final chapters. Though based in 16th century Poland and written almost 50 years ago, it carries strong messages for life today. I am very happy to have read this.
Wow. Brutal descriptions of peasant life in 1600's Poland, plus pogroms and their effect on the Jewish community. The line from here to Auschwitz is straight and clear. Slams those who choose to practice the insignificant pieces of religion but leave out the critical stuff - like love, respect and charity. Woven into the hardships is a touching and romantic interfaith love story.
