https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/228220.The_House_of_Thunder
This was an entertaining read without much depth to it. Not Dean Koontz at his best but still very readable. The finale was a little bit too convoluted for me but I guess it was that or an even worse option to explain the strange events. Some silly dialogue, a doctor falling in love at first sight with a comatose patient and an entire town in cahoots to fool one individual did take a lot of swallowing but I still enjoyed it:) This is a book to while away a flew hours but which is probably not memorable.
This book was very good I had to put it down a couple of times because it was so intense.
Koontzland Group Read - April 2018  Added to Willawauk town description.Willawauk town's hospital is Susan's "prison" with amnesia after her accident. Nightmares of her boyfriend's (Jerry) college hazing & death by the 4 fraternity brothers in the House of Thunder, 7 years ago appear & haunt her. The fraternity brothers reappear still as 19 not 26.Ernest Hatch is the fraternity brother that haunts her the most. Dr. McGee shows the most attention for her recovery. But his reason for the
Koontzland Group Read - April 2018
Added to Willawauk town description.Willawauk town's hospital is Susan's "prison" with amnesia after her accident.
Nightmares of her boyfriend's (Jerry) college hazing & death by the 4 fraternity brothers in the House of Thunder, 7 years ago appear & haunt her.
Other major characters are 4 fraternity brothers (Ernest Harch, Randy Lee Quince, Carl Jellicoe & Herbert Parker) who killed/hazed her boyfriend, Jerry Stein, while she hide watching in the "house of thunder" but the 4 fraternity brothers have not aged since the murder 7 years ago.
It gets nice and creepy and brings in the thrills, I read this story years ago back in 2003 and I wanted to add a review to Goodreads so I looked up the old review and implemented some into this intro.
I still think fondly of this story ten years later, time for a re-read it seems.When Susan wakes up in an unfamiliar hospital she knows there was some kind of an accident but she cannot recall what is going on and why is she there.
This hardcover is numbered 106 of 550 copies and is signed by Dean Koontz and illustrator Phil Park on the limitation page.
Loved it! You never know what's real !!
An excellent story! Review to come....
He doesn't write the best dialogue, or write the best characters, but his stories are always twisty, and never end up where I think they're going.
The ending was actually pretty good, if a little dated, and it certainly felt plausible.
There were so many strings out there, and so many loose ends that were all wrapped up in just a few pages, that I wish that there was just a little more information given to back up the abrupt resolution.
All in all, this was a pretty good story.
Mr. Koontz can write a good book.
(view spoiler)[ In the middle of a conversation Susan says, "Wait, what's a deep cover agent?" This girl who's a physicist at a super important, super secret think tank must never read, watch movies or TV.
The book itself (view spoiler)[ while firmly in the horror category also somewhat crosses over into the "spy-fi" genre.
(hide spoiler)]So, I know some of you like it and that's great.
I don't care for this one but I know Koontz can write a good book...it's just that all of them aren't great.
Well, badass for a Dean Koontz book.
One gets the impression that all of a sudden Koontz realized he had one month left before the book was due and he just rushed through, basically writing an outline for how the end of the book would go.
This was very frustrating because, up to that point, this was my favorite Dean Koontz book.
Back in the day, I wasn't too picky if his books were fair-to-middlin'; like Stephen King, he's entertaining even when he's not trying very hard.
This might've been the book that broke the Michael's back, and made him decide there were better investments of his time than Koontz.
the worst novel i've ever read. My opinion is Dean Koontz adapted this novel from Stephen King's short story "Some Times They Come Back". Idea is same but Dean Koontz version is too boring and dry.
Originally written under his Leigh Nichols pseudonym (hence why it’s different to a lot of his fare), The House of Thunder is the story of a young lady that wakes up after being in a coma for three weeks.
She falls in love with him and him her before the climax of the book reveals all in what is quite a bizarre and unexpected plot twist.
Overall the book isn’t that great.
It’s diverting at best and suffers from a romance that isn’t romantic and hugely unrealistic.
So far reading like a straight, fairly awful, romance novel (why this from Koontz I don't know).
Hopefully it will get better.Now on cd 3 and the dialogue is pure drivel.
Plus, the woman narrator (audio version) doesn’t help with her impressions of the older nurse, who she makes sound like Mother Goose.
This doesn’t remotely read like a Koontz book.
Lifetime TV movies must be better than this.Update...by the end of the 3rd CD I had to stop.
Having read a lot of Koontz books it seems like someone else wrote this and put their name on it.
I am a fan of Dean Koontz and was happy to have got a copy of this from a friend...
Why the 4 men from the "House of Thunder"?
I do not get how the men are "ghosts" but yet they need to cover there tracks with medicine to keep her knocked out.
(hide spoiler)]Just very disappointing and I really wanted to like this book...
I'm still a fan of Dean Koontz(False Memory was great!!!!) I wanna get "The City", and a few more of his newer stuff just this one fell flat for me...
I very much liked this book.
It is a nightmarish story that will mess with your head just like it messed with mine.
I loved the trip.Favorite Passages:She felt like a fool, but she was still a prisoner of her fear._______She thought of the corpse scratching insistently at the closed bathroom door against which she had been leaning.
She remembered the click-snickety-click of his fingernails as he probed the cracks around the door frame.______ You're just plain crazy; that's all.
You're as nutty as a jumbo-size can of Planter's Party Mix.______Lightning pulsed softly, and thunder crashed like a train derailing in the darkness.
Spooky and sinister, The House of Thunder often works on pure suspense and tells an unforgettable story.
Lots of surprises in this one. The character development isn't what I'm used to in a Koontz novel, but that's because of the actual plot. Enjoyable and I read it in one day, even though it is a thick book.
The House Of Thunder, This being an older novel by Mr. Koontz, originally penned under the pseudonym Leigh Nichols, is not in my opinion his best work.
Although I liked the book, I felt I couldn't connect with the characters.
Susan is an enigma, not only her past but her present conditions are thin, lacking the depth needed to actually care about her character.
We learn a little about her as she begins to remember, just not nearly enough to care about her.
I did like the book, but not enough to recommend it as a must read to would be Koontz fans
So this book started off AMAZING!
The ending, in my opinion, had nothing to do with the first part of the story, I was so interested in what laid in the mind of the main character's mind, and the fact that the ending was what it was really got me mad, because up until that point, I was really into this book, and when I found out what I did I thought "Really?
Night Shyamalan-esque ending I really enjoyed this book, it was creepy, and interesting, it just lost me in the last 50-60 pages.
Entre la fantasía y la realidad, una se torna la otra y viceversa.
Cuando crees que una ya es completamente imposible y te apegas a la otra, surge algo que te hace desconfiar nuevamente.
Cuando parece que ya jugo con tu cerebro por completo, surge una tercera posibilidad también muy aterradora.
Hay escenas tan atemorizantes sobre todo en las páginas finales, que hacen que todo cambie otra vez.
Es cierto que la novela avanza de un modo lento, pero la tercera y última parte es solo el inicio de la montaña rusa.
Hay que tenerle paciencia para saber lo bueno.
I did not even realized how fast the time flew while reading this one - I could not put it down! Great plot, madness theme and creepy twist! My second Dean Koontz novel and definitely not the last one.
Koontz's books are kind of like potato chips: you can never read just one. I've never read a potato chip, though, so I'm not entirely sure what that is like. But you get the idea. I hope.
Horror meets Harlequin Romance. No thanks.
Oppure dietro a tutto questo si nasconde un progetto reale e spaventoso?Ormai ho capito una cosa, e cioè che il thriller e l'horror (parlo di entrambi perchè, in questo caso, si oscilla un po' tra i due), sono generi che, più di altri, per conquistare il lettore devono afferrarlo sin da subito e non mollarlo più, con un ritmo senza sosta e una narrazione sempre concentrata sulla trama principale, senza perdersi in chiacchere inutili, in descrizioni noiose, in sottotrame aventi poco a che fare col nodo centrale.
Sono generi che per acchiappare veramente non devono concedere respiro.E Koontz, in questo, ci riesce benissimo.
The strange dynamic of these two were reminiscent of Tweedledum and Tweedledee, and you could see that from a mile away.Next would be Susan and Jeff.
This could also be due to Susan's ludicrous decision making - I know that this is all to do with plot convenience, but really?
That was by far the best throughout the whole book - I felt real terror, gripping the pages and rooting for both the monster's reveal and Susan's escape.Susan and Jeff's love story was inexplicably Twilight-esque - a 'unique' young woman with a devilishly handsome doctor with blue eyes.
This one starts out, kind of slow.Yet part of the magic to the story.It simmers, and keeps bubbling, and keeping you turning pages.The main character, in a hospital, being visited by dead men.Is she losing her mind, is it supernatural?This one works like a twilight zone episode.It keeps you guessing, trying to figure out.
Just where the story is taking you.Not a lot of action, more mind games and or mis-directions.As you journey along with the main character.Things begin to twist and pick up tempo later.I will admit, had me tempted to check the finish, before making it through it all.One major problem with it.The ending, seemed to be a bit abrupt and hard to swallow.Then again, if you look at the time period.
auch alte Schinken können spannend sein!
Good book! It was a little shorter than I'd thought it was going to be, but it was really well done, and in true Koontz style, I never would have guessed the ending. Definitely worth a read!
Too much of the story is a helpless victim being afraid.STORY BRIEF: In 1967 Susan saw four fraternity brothers beat her boyfriend to death in a college hazing. They were going to kill her, but she escaped and testified against them. Two of them later died in a car accident. It is now 1980. Susan just woke from a three week coma from a car accident. During the next several days she sees the four fraternity brothers in the hospital. Two are working as orderlies and two are patients. The four men
Too much of the story is a helpless victim being afraid.STORY BRIEF:									In 1967 Susan saw four fraternity brothers beat her boyfriend to death in a college hazing.
The four men get her alone and tell her they are going to rape and kill her.
Logic says she must be going mad, because this couldn’t be happening.
I wondered if this whole thing was going to end up being one long dream - because two men had died.
When I started listening at the end, the same thing was still going on.
Tell-alls are not a good way to end a story.
Starts off strong, great premise and creepy presentation, then devolves into incoherent preposterous nonsense. Very disappointing.
