https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198429.The_Epistle_to_the_Romans
This is not a book bound by time, but is indeed timeless and existentially crushing for the subject who dares to venture thither.As we hear about wars and rumors of wars—and the historical dialectic propels the movement of geo-political events of our κόσμος forward in rapid successive, exponential fashion—we stand condemned under the κρίσις of all humanity: under His veritable and unequivocal "No." It seems humanity today is heading for destruction faster than ever before—for no human reaction, no human revolution done within the realm of ερος or inside the parenthetical boundaries of history can bring about divine change!
Reading it it much like reading Kierkegaard, in that you can be stunned and humbled by how it approaches its core issues even without sharing its Christian belief.
I found myself wishing that the evil right-wing ideologues who have co-opted American Christianity could be confronted, from within the faith, by a voice of such stark intelligence and integrity.
But, in less temporal terms, and more important, I felt deeply moved by Barth's own theological momentum as he wrestles with a key Christian text and comes to terms with what he calls "an irresistible and all-embracing dissolution of the world of time and things and men...a penetrating and ultimate KRISIS...a negation by which all existence is rolled up."
This is not a light read.
The language is convoluted, the ideas are complex, and the exegesis of Paul's letter to the Romans is far more theological than historical-critical.
"Engrossing" is the wrong word for it ...
I heard one reader describe the experience of reading it as going under water.
It's a good description as long as "going under water" includes "being held under water and then released at the last possible moment."I don't generally throw myself into theology, but Barth's writing has a certain draw to it.
Even after finishing the book, I was terrified that his theology is correct.
Barth was a genius, and his emphasis on the sovereignty of God is a welcome refrain in this individualistic culture, but his infatuation with the Kantian bifurcation of the noumenal and phenomenal, and his subsequent disparagement of human knowledge were simply unpalatable---and frankly un-Pauline---to me. I'm told he changes his tune a bit in the later books of the Church Dogmatics, so I'll have to see, but for starters, this book didn't really endear me to Barth. However, if you find yourself entranced by 19th century liberal German theology, Barth is just the cup of cold water for you.
took a little over three and half months to get through and it is the best book I have read. life changing. full stop.
I believe the Patristic Fathers and Magisterial Reformers would agree.That said, Barth's Doctrine of God has greatly encouraged this reader in seeing the Triune God in much more of his majesty, and it is a mistake of many that Barth does not respect and try to do justice to both Holy Scriptures and a historic orthodoxy.
That said, Barth's modernistic shaped Biblical Theology, could use a dose of humility and pause regarding those on whose shoulders he builds; those in the past that enable him to have a scriptural text or theology by which to begin his work.
This is the book that let the theological world know who Karl Barth was. This led off his reaction to the theological liberalism of the 19th century which he thought to be bankrupt.
A philosophical commentary more than a exegetical commentary. However it was a very interesting read.
This one fried my brain. Excellent thinking. Complex development of thoughts and ideas. I’ve never come across any writing that dealt so thoroughly with Romans. Brilliant!
I cant read with this application!!!! WTF!!!
Lo que más me gustó o me llamó la atención (si es que bien entendí): La cuestión del Dios desconocido.
Cómo tema, como diferencia entre lo que para mí es más conocido, y la lectura que hace Barth de Pablo sobre la gracia que actúa en quien cree.
Tanto que hace que haya que leer despacito, eso puede ser una desventaja, pero me parece más bien una ventaja dado el carácter del libro.
Iglesia que por correr a la caza del hombre religioso, se jacta de poseer a Dios, y se olvida de su ser-ahí y ser-así, se olvida de la imposibilidad (¡posible!) de conocer al Dios desconocido.
The answer is that although Man cannot speak of God, it turns out he, Man (and, in this case, Karl Barth), cannot resist the sinful pull of his desire to nonetheless grind his particular political axe.
No, it was only later, Karl, when Obama was elected, that suddenly the neo-orthodox wing of the American Protestants starting pulling out your neo-orthodox Archimedian point from its context and arguing that Obama’s government was just like Nazi Germany (see my review of Bonhoeffer) that the fundamental political shit started hitting the proverbial fan.
Barth explains through exegesis and metaphor many wonderful and inspiring ideas, but they tended to be so complex and varied that I found a hard time linking them together in my mind to make a solitary stream of thought.
On Barth himself, I get nervous about reading him, not because of theological error but in his consistency of action during hitler's reign.
I've read elsewhere that Barth did not rail against the tyrant and even questioned Christians who did at times.
I hope that for those of you who see my review take it as an encouragement to love those Christians who you know.
I enjoyed reading this work by Barth.
There were sections of this work that were challenging, exciting, and beneficial.
Second, his discussion of the new man was pretty awesome.
Because of most of the second half.
Sometimes he reads more into the text, especially in the later section, than he did in the first.
These moments when he read into the text were far more uncomfortable for me than the rest of his commentary.
This discomfort could have been because his ideas in these sections were foreign to me, or perhaps due to some unstated presupposition that I could not see.Either way, I enjoyed the book.
I think it is generally a bad idea to interpret scripture through a Kantian lens.
Barth had a brilliant mind; far more so than my own.
Historically, I appreciate that he fought adamantly against the liberalism of his day.
However in doing so he created a liberalism all his own.
This earns three stars from me, not because I agree with Barth (I don't) but simply for the historical significance of this most famous work of Barth.
If anyone desires to critically understand 20th century neo-orthodoxy and its subsequent influence on modern liberal theology they must spend a lot of time getting to know Barth.
This book is such an immensely influential book that there is nothing I can add in terms of writing about it.
It should of course be read in its context and with knowledge of the sources and conversation partners that Barth wanted to interact with.
Even though I have a fair knowledge of German theology I am sure I miss out a lot simply because of ignorance.
Despite that the book was very rewarding even for me, reading it soon 100 years after the first publication.
Barth did something very interesting when he wanted to write WITH Paul.
This is a classical work that is unofficial "required reading" where I go to seminary (alongside "Brothers Karamazov," "Fear and Trembling" and basically anything else Barth read). The main argument is pretty straightforward and Barth kind of keeps repeating himself about it: basically, there is an ontological divide between God and humanity that Christ bridges in the act of the incarnation. The best part of the book is the great one liners that are sprinkled throughout the book.
The first edition of this study is almost a century old; the sixth and last edition is 85 years old. Barth, arguably the premier theological voice of the 20th century, in translation is at times dense and un-accessible, at times verbose. However he always extols the sovereignty of GOD and the revelation of salvation through Jesus Christ. A taxing read but worth the effort.
Exciting, uplifting
This book has had a significant impact on my theology. I took forever to read it - but that is because I tackled it with pencil and ruler. While I did not agree with everything Karl Barth says (or his emphases) in this book, it contains more than enough jewels to warrant 5 stars.
While Barth's work on Romans came as a shock to the German world, I failed to feel any electricity. Though parts of his commentary are helpful, he must really strain the text to fit many of his interpretations.CB
A classic
Challenging
Instrumental in helping me wade through Romans, especially Romans 14 and 15.
One of the most profound commentaries of Romans you will read. Everytime i read it it challanges provokes and refreshes my thinking.
Passionate "discovery" of Paul and the Epistle to the Romans in the light of Kierkegaard. Facinating.
Stunning. Everyone should read this book.
Interesting. Much of it is repetitive. I find his thought interesting, though too Calvinist for me.
My brain hurt after 1/3 of this one, and I'm not sure I'm clever enough to need this level of exegesis. Count the cost before you undertake this study.
An epic devotional book. Read slowly. Well you have to read it slowly, don't you?
