https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/249863.The_Green_Man
All told, similar to other dimensions of the novel, Maurice’s sex life is laced with large helpings of vintage Kingsley Amis comedy, mostly of the parody and satire variety.GHOST STORYThe Green Man is most certainly a ghost story and literary critic Michael Dirda outlines in his helpful Introduction to this New York Review Books (NYRB ) edition precisely how the author masterfully incorporates traditional ingredients of atmosphere and crescendo to create his chilling tale.
He wrote poetry, short stories and novels that have been classified as travel, humor, alternate history, dystopian, science fiction and spy.
His Lucky Jim is one of the funniest novels I have read.The Green Man is horror, his Stephen King.
The main character runs an historic British wayside inn, The Green Man. He lives there with his second wife and pre-teen age daughter from his first marriage.
In contrast, his relationship with his wife, best male friend and son and daughter-in-law (visiting for the funeral) is tense due to his drinking and the ghost goings-on.
Kingsley Amis was the one who decided to pack all those signs of new epistemological era in a single rather thin novel, staying on the funny side of things.“Anyway, Underhill, or rather his ghost, turned up quite a few times at a window in what’s now part of the dining-room, peering out and apparently watching something.
One chap said he thought Underhill was behaving as if he were terrified out of his wits.
Someone else thought he was showing the detached curiosity of a man of science observing an experiment.”And if there are ghosts then there is evil.
There are two apparitions in this ghost story of a novel; one explained and one not.
And there is the obligatory Amis political incorrectness; some intended and some not.
I read this elder Amis because:a) I like to see who he's skewering;b) I want reassurance that, by comparison, I do not drink too much; andc) his dialogue never disappoints, like this snippet between our protagonist and the local rector:'You don't imagine it's a coincidence, do you, that this was the great age of masochism, chiefly in England but by no means confined to here?''No,' I said.
The novel is set in and around an inn between London and Cambridge called "The Green Man", owned by Maurice Allington, a 53-year-old man.
The inn and its name date back to the 14th century.
The inn is haunted by its 17th-century owner, Thomas Underhill, a Cambridge scholar who dabbled in the occult.
Underhill was associated with two unsolved murders, including that of his wife.Allington has some problems, one of which is a drinking problem that causes hallucinations.
Maurice begins to see ghosts around the inn.The Green Man is a very black comedy with an uncannily happy ending.
For Maurice, life is a high speed, roller-coaster ride of juggling his various commitments - in this case 'commitment' equates to womanizing, drinking heavily, running his period inn The Green Man, and embellishing his establishment with tales of the resident ghost.
oh, yes, and did I mention more whisky and women.In case I haven't made it clear, Maurice is a scoundrel of the highest order.
Maurice's antics are about to open the door for a very dark presence, and as the tone of the book takes an unsettling turn, we are treated to a more contemporary ghost story.
Some of the people round about said that Underhill had killed his wife, whom he used to quarrel with a lot, apparently, and he was also supposed to have brought about the death of a farmer he’d had trouble with over some land deal.”” “”Well, the odd thing is that both these people were murdered all right, half torn to pieces, in fact, in the most brutal way, but in both cases the bodies were found in the open, at almost the same spot on the road to the village, although the murders were six years apart, and on both occasions it was established beyond doubt that Underhill was indoors here at the time.
When he starts seeing things around the inn, we have to wonder if his drinking has finally addled his wits, for Maurice certainly doesn’t believe in the ghosts that he advertises to lure guests.I remember a TV show based on this book, which I skipped based on how much the ads for it disturbed my peace of mind.
As Maurice reflects a one point, “I thought to myself how much more welcome a faculty the imagination would be if we could tell when it was at work and when not.” But mine doesn’t work that way—it is often overactive when I would like it to mind its own business.A good ghost story for people who normally don’t care for them.
For whatever reason, Kingsley Amis and I seem to genuinely click. At least I think so based upon the level of enjoyment I got from this unusual little book. There is a genuine quality to his literary voice, which when combined with his certain sense of humour, very much reminds me of Kurt Vonnegut (who I love). I am a sucker for ghost stories, but this is a ghost story with many differences. The feel is entirely unique, as is the imagery. I can't wait to get my hands on more from this fantastic author.
The effect is comparable to being conducted incognito through a meeting of the Toastmasters by a man has no love for the communicators but who is himself a verbal genius.Of the five I’ve now read, including three novels, one book of literary criticism, and the excellent (recently reissued) volume on drinking alcohol, Everyday Drinking, Lucky Jim is my favorite.
LJ was his first novel, and The Green Man was his ninth; a lot has happened in Amis’ style in the interim.
As all sensible writers ought to be, Amis here appears to be terrified of death, and he knew that the comic novel is the ideal form to broach the subject without being pretentious or morose.
Which adds to the charm and puts a new twist on the whole sardonic British realism thing that Kingsley is best known for.
So, all in all a treat if you like that kind of thing, full of sharp writing and questions about life, death and ghosts.
Apparently when once asked if he was an atheist, Kingsley replied "It's more that I hate him." Just so you know what to expect.
Here goes...It's the story of Maurice Allington, a known 'womanizer,' yet married with daughter, son, wife (second wife) and owner of an inn and restaurant in rural England.
Maurice leads a fairly ordinary life, yet is interested in sex and having a threesome with his wife and the wife of a friend.
His usual day sees him buying food for his restaurant, dealing with his employees and customers, and dallying about with said wife's friend.
Quite a different story altogether.I'd never read anything by Kingsley Amis and I now know that this book was out of the ordinary for him.
Sometimes events in the past and present align to make events and stories overlap.
This means that sometimes people in the present witness echoes from the past, kind of like ghosts.
Sometimes the echo can go both ways and people from the past receive ripples of activity from the future.- So what do you like to write about?- Well, it's kind of horror but set so close to reality that it is believable in a way.- Really...
me too.- I use my fantastic knowledge of history to link the past and present.- How strange.
Rather enjoyed this novel from the Boxall 1000 list.
Maurice Allington owns an old Inn which may or may not be haunted.
Maurice is the only one to see the ghost of Robert Underhill an unsavoury character from centuries ago.
The fact that Maurice sees a ghost at all may be because he is hallucinating due his intake of alcohol, Maurice does love to drink.
I'd never heard of this novel until I started perusing the Boxall list.
Loved the atmosphere, it's very "Britishness" and the humorous quips of Maurice as he attempts to prove his sanity to family, friends and his customers.
British critic David Pringle chose it for inclusion in his overview volume "Modern Fantasy: The 100 Best Novels," as did Michael Moorcock in "Fantasy: The 100 Best Books" AND Brian Aldiss in "Horror: 100 Best Books." As it turns out, all of this praise is not misplaced, and Amis' 1969 novel of modern-day satire and the supernatural is as entertaining as can be.
Those closest to poor Maurice suspect that his stories of ghosts and tiny birds that fly through his hand are a result of the DT's (it really is remarkable how much liquor Maurice drinks in a day), but the reader somehow never doubts that what Maurice sees is objective reality....Mixing social satire, amusing incidents and some good eerie scenes, "The Green Man" does keep the reader enthralled.
He neglects his teenage daughter and his second wife, he actively defies at least two commandments (the ones about coveting and adultery)...he's actually so busy trying to get laid and assuage his phobic restless nature, that the ghost business in his inn initially mainly just gets in a way.
Kingsley Amis isn't known for his horror works, he's mainly a comedic author who has dabbled in other genres.
So this is a dabble and it comes across as one, it's sort of like a very british comedy with sex and ghosts.
This book is mental. It's a ghost story but not in the slightest bit scary. It's also a kind of weird folklorish and boozy story with extramarital affairs. It reminded me of wicker man in a way... It's not really my kind of book, but there was something so odd about it that I was intrigued... lots of nice writing and a lot of whisky.we are reading this for reading group- so shall report bacck.Reading group gave it a 2.5 out of five on average.....
Okay novel that loses something by being a bit dated and having a ghost story that lacks much suspense. The fact that we never really like the main character doesn't help. I'm not sure if the things about threesomes, lesbianism, and adultery were still considered edgy in 1969, but they lack any excitement today except to the most prudish.The entire thing just seemed somewhat tepid to me.
Martin Amis wrote in his memoir about heading up to his old man's house every Sunday and have the old bastard reading Martin's newspaper articles and telling how how he used the inferior, vulgar and utterly punishable newspaper meaning of a word, which has slowly taken over to become the word's only meaning (for further elaboration on this, try Martin's Experience: A Memoir or Kingsley's The King's English: A Guide to Modern Usage, where he sits with a dictionary and a drink and tells you in all sorts of ways how your writing wouldn't get you far as a 50's man of letters).
(Or is it the other way around?) It was an interesting academic and philosophical exploration of mortality and life after death until a little more than halfway through the book.
At that point, the ghost story picks up steam- and, though still philosophical- becomes more of a "physical" conflict with supernatural occult and pagan forces.
Amis can definitely turn a phrase, writes great characters and was funny enough that I unexpectedly laughed out loud at least once.
In this genre, Amis is much more subtle than Stephen King or Peter Straub, but equally as enjoyable.
This ghost story feels "real".
At times a ghost story, at others a sex farce, and at yet others an occult mystery. Overall enjoyable, as long as you can resolve the fact that the protagonist is an arrogant alcoholic jerk. I also laughed out loud a few times, especially when the main character derided novelists; you know the character isn't a front for the author when that happens!
(My favorite quotation of all time is this, from Lucky Jim; "If you can't annoy somebody, there is little point in writing.") Allington has to deal with a frisky mistress, a taken-for-granted (but still loved) newish wife, a dying to dead father, a drinking problem, hypochondria (that pain in the lower back is kidney cancer, perhaps, now that the brain cancer has cleared up), an mostly uncommunicative 13yo daughter, lost manuscripts, midnight grave robbing, an atheist parson, a shy cat, and all sorts of disconcerting spectral visitors in the woods nearby and in the hotel at night, at least one of whom has a rather nasty history...
OK it’s a Kingsley Amis book so let’s see if the usual character check list applies:• Central character drinks a bit too much – in this case a lot too much• Central character is somewhat of a philanderer• Central character is a self centered curmudgeon – OK certainly self centered this time• Central character is at least a bit of an autobiographical version of the authorYes ineed all those boxes are ticked, but what genre is Amis going to experiment with this time? As he does like experimenting
OK it’s a Kingsley Amis book so let’s see if the usual character check list applies:•	Central character drinks a bit too much – in this case a lot too much•	Central character is somewhat of a philanderer•	Central character is a self centered curmudgeon – OK certainly self centered this time•	Central character is at least a bit of an autobiographical version of the authorYes ineed all those boxes are ticked, but what genre is Amis going to experiment with this time?
However it’s a mostly good sort of Amis insane.
In goodfellas particularly right near the climax of the movie Henry is running around doing increasing amounts of coke and dealing with everything from cooking a nice dinner to getting a lucky hat to having sex with his mistress.
Similarly here, with booze instead of coke, this man's world is falling apart and ghosts are appearing but just in the thick of it he will jump back to plotting about how to arrange a threesome with his wife and mistress.Lot's of things to enjoy here.
Not what I expected. I love his dry sense of humor and delicious inappropriateness. The main character is equal parts cad and hero, a feat only Amis could accomplish. Don't usually go in for the supernatural stuff, but it was funny. Didn't end for me quite as light as it started. Lucky Jim is still my favorite of his, possibly in my top ten. If you've liked others from Amis and you're up for something a tad bit raunchy, this could be the ticket.
Lots of detail on alcoholism and infidelity of the swinging-sixties variety, and a not-so-subtle parallel in character between the historical villain and the anti-hero protagonist. Amis defined his family of characters very well within their close environment. I think it was intended to be comedic, but I found the language a bit high-handed to be funny, and there was rather too much device packed into a short book.
Imagine sitting by the fire listening to M.R. James as played by a soused Oliver Reed telling you this creepy-as-all-hell ghost story that he keeps mixing up with the Wicker Man and that three way that didn't quite work out. It's just too weird not to like. And spoilers--if this guy was such an awful misogynist, why does his wife get the last word and the girl?
Utterly delightful. Irascible drunk faces down the cause of the strange goings-on at his public house, The Green Man. The characters are right there with you as you read, as real as your next-door neighbor. All of them are unexpectedly complex and fascinating, even Victor. I'll re-read this with pleasure.
Lots of fun to be had with this one; a straight-out Gothic from the 80-proof pen of Mr Amis, who may himself have had too much fun here. More at Konichiwa Witches.http://home.earthlink.net/~cumulo-nim...
Weird and funny and thought-provoking. Also short, so a perfect choice for the "too busy to read" person (not speaking of myself).
