https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/422728.The_Unknown_Soldier
Initially, the Russians had a non-aggression pact with the Germans, so that left their hands free to attack Finland.
The Finns defended doggedly, but it looked like it was just a matter of time.
Then the Germans launched Operation Barbarossa, and the Russians were suddenly fighting for their lives.
The Finns, operating on the "enemy's enemy" principle, coordinated their counter-attack on Russia with the Germans.
At the end, since the Finns were technically classed as an Axis power, they had to pay enormous reparations to Russia, basically for the crime of having been attacked, and then defending themselves robustly.
Just as any Hemingway book is different in English than the Basque version---add to this, a people will have different emotions.
Same holds true for Finns and this book.
The Continuation War was more senseless, in this one , towards the end, men died, en masse, and soldiers wondered "why"?Linna captures the despair, the hopes dashed, the fear as few other writers have done, in any language.
When Linna introduces the reader to this fact, that Finland will lose and the soldiers the reader has come to know, continue to die, needlessly, the heart constricts---this isn't a novel so much as a piece of a peoples soul.
Olen lukenut kirjan useita kertoja, mutta lienenköhän viimeksi lukenut sen viimeksi opiskeluaikaan, yli kymmenen vuotta sitten?
Niin tai näin, romaanin tapahtumat olivat hyvin mielessä ihan yksittäisten kohtausten ja jopa repliikkien tasolla.Ei ole varmaan liioiteltua väittää, että kirja onkin osa jonkinlaista suomalaista kollektiivista tajuntaa, lainataanhan sitä toistuvasti erilaisissa yhteyksissä - eikä tietysti joka itsenäisyyspäivä esitettävän elokuvan roolia voi vähätellä.
Linnan teos näyttäytyy lukijoille eri tavalla, joko pasifistisempana tai sitten isänmaallisempana kuvauksena jatkosodasta.
Rahikainen välittää seksipalveluja Petroskoissa, ja Raili Pietikäisellä on miehiä useampiakin, sekaantuupa hän jopa sodan loppupuolella pst-mieheen.Niin kliseiseltä kuin se kuulostaakin, niin kyllä kaikkien suomalaisten pitäisi lukea tämä kirja ainakin kerran.
En pysty vielä prosessoimaan sitä mitä tulin juuri lukeneeksi. Minua itkettää. Lyhyesti sanottuna: loistava kirja.
One of the best books about the war I have ever read!
The book describes important moment of Finland history.
On the example of Finland it is possible to learn history of all Europe, and maybe the whole world of that time.
In this book we can see original true Finland with her own history and traditions.
This is simple soldier's truth about the war.
In book there is much more life itself, than thoughts and philosophy about life.
Soldier in the war think about his stomach in the first… highest ideals and matters aren't so interesting to him.
Tuntemattomasta sotilaasta puhuttaessa ei ole ylisanoja säästelty. Se on kaunistelematon ja rehellinen kokoelma kohtaloita. Aiheeltaan se on synkkä ja raskas, mutta ei täysin hylkää huumoria. Klassikko on yksi niistä kirjoista, joiden uskoo antavan vielä enemmän toisella tai kolmannella lukukerralla
Omg! I did it! Only took me 16 years, but I finally finished this book!
Vaikka elokuvaversin Rokka oli jotenki todellä ärsyttävä, kirjassa nousi yhdeksi lempihahmoksi Koskelan rinnalle. Olen yllättynyt miten paljon kirjasta pidin ja miten mukaansatempaava se onkaan! Ne niin monet surkeat ihmiskohtalotmeni ihon alle ja monta kertaa itketti. Huh, voimakas ja vavisuttava teos. Kannatti ehdottomasti lukea!
Read this in 81. When visting Finland 81 Helsinki Marathon I brought home 3 copies for friends in the States
I think "Unknown Soldiers" is a much more apt title.The Finnish-Russian Continuity War is described through one Finnish machine gun company from the start to armistice.There is no single central character as it describes the men through their various backgrounds, social, political views, geographical and language.
It gives a sense of the variety of the people of Finland.The various characters are either brave, scared, blase, eccentric, loyal, ambitious, idealistic, cynical.
It includes the stoic Kosekla from the Under the North Star (Reconciliation).The soldiers are all portrayed as thinking men who question what is going on but are generally realistic that they have a job to do.
It is also an anti-war book.
Kerta kerralta parempi ja rakkaampi.
4,5. Ei tosiaankaan ole klassikko syyttä. Vaikka alku on hidas ja hahmojen paljous pyörryttää, näistä asioista selvitään ja hahmoihinkin kiintyy vahvasti (ja sitten Linna tappaa kaikki lempihenkilöni). Saatoin viimeisiä sivuja lukiessani itkeä muutaman miehekkään kyyneleen.
A wonderful book!
Not literally to be exact, but for some reason I really liked this book.
Even as I had to read it to complete one course in school, it didn't get in the way of my literary enjoyment.
And it is about war, not the nicest thing to read about.Anyway, the way it was written and all the different characters captured me in the story, in this strange way.
Because no one is the protagonist, though there are a few main characters, you don't know what others are doing or who is still going to be alive in the next chapter.
i've always made sure that I haven't read a war book even by an accident.
this book has gained a cult reputation in finland and in "here" people keep it as a standard that each individual has at least read the book and seen the both filmed versions of it.
one could say that i'm far from war enthustiastic but yet i really liked the book.
plus, this book has all the elements that a proper book needs: good characters, enough thrills and chills, proper dialogue and events that keep you on your toes from first to last page
I read the novel in translation with the Finnish original by my side.
Since Linna was a veteran of this war I can suppose that much of what he wrote were his own personal experiences.It is my habit that when I embark on reading a new book to refrain from reading anything about it.
When I was in Finland last year I saw the English translation for sale under a new title Unknown Soldiers, but paid no attention to it.
I bought The Unknown Soldier with the prejudice that it, while a classic of Finnish literature, would be a boring read.
Yläasteella katsoin ekaa kertaa sen Laineen leffan ja siitä asti on kasvanut häpeä siitä etten ole kirjaa lukenut.
Että sen olis kuulunut selviytyä.
- oli koko ajan sentyyppinen sankari joka ei voi muuta kuin lopulta kuolla.
Itkettää perkele.) Ei (mielestäni) sellainen traaginen sankari jonka kuolemaa ei ehkä tunnekuohuissaan arvaa mutta jonka koittaessa huomaa että olisi pitänyt.
Ja kuten jo kerran twitterissä totesin, eihän Rokkaa voi jättää mainitsematta.
Samaan aikaan huumoria heittävä isällinen hahmo ja - ei julma, varsinaisesti, mutta niin kylmäverinen että pelottaa.
Lyijyä ne tottelee niin kuin kaikki muutkin.”- Koskela, s.
Mutta tiivistäen:Ihan mielettömän hyvä kirja.
Amazing
No one really likes to be forced to read a book one doesn't have an interest in.
What I liked was the portrayal of relationships and mundane life of the men fighting on the front.
Väinö Linna based many characters on real people he met while fighting in Continuation War, and because of his own experience it makes a truthful portrayal.
That must result in interesting bonds and relationships between the men, and the interaction between them is different considering the conditions.
Besides of the story and the characters, use of different dialects is interesting, it spices the story.
This is the English translation of the Finnish book written only 9 years after the end of World War II.
The book describes the life of a Finnish platoon that was formed before the start of Continuation War against Russia and served through from 1941 to 1944, as did the author.
The book also deliberately removes the glory from the war.
The authors descriptions of life and combat in Finland and Russia are honest and brutal.
However as they themselves are brutalised the author shows their desensitisation by removing the sensationalist descriptions of the combat effects on the people outside the platoon.
A hugely popular Finnish classic.
I think the book is good enough to merit more international popularity.
I read the Finnish language original.The book was written in the fifties, and it's about the second of the two wars between the USSR and Finland during WWII.
Four stars, were it for the depressing subject matter, which does not diminish it's literary merits, but does lessen my personal enjoyment of the whole reading experience.
Also, since it's an authentic depiction, there really is no plot.Like any good war novel, this one is about the senselessness and horror of it all.
It's not a book I would have easily picked up myself but reading it was worth the time.The book describes the horrors of the so-called Finnish Continuation War, in which Finland found itself on the wrong side of history.
The beginning of the book really matches the title since the unfamiliar names of the soldiers make it difficult for non-Finnish readers to keep track of who is who.
But slowly some characters are beginning to develop into unforgettable people.
It is the growing identification with these characters that makes the futility of this war hit home precisely because Linna doesn't write for effect but describes the horrors in a matter-of-fact way.
This book, like everything else I’ve ever read by Linna, is great. If you’re interested at all in The Continuation War between the Soviet Union and Finland during WWII, this is your book. Even if you’re not, this makes for excellent reading anyway. It follows a plucky group of Finnish soldiers from training camp through their ultimate defeat. It’s both sad and funny with that typical dry Finnish wit. You come to really love all of the characters and feel everything they feel.
An absolute must read, especially for a Finn. Brilliant, sad and shocking. The brutality of war and the heroism of the regular guy put into an impossible situation. Very hard to put down and easy to relate to the characters. Also a realistic (I think...) depiction of the war.
If I rated this on enjoyment, it'd only be 3 stars. But that was the fault of the translator. (I read a 1957 English translation with prose as stiff as a board.) However, the meat of the book still managed to come through and I could see how effective it was and the enduring theme of men in war.
This book left me totally speechless. It sounds wrong to say I loved every page of it because war isn't something that is pretty or clear. But I loved this. I feel like I haven't ever read something so purely true or Finnish. And I could turn the book around and read it again right now.
Luin tän ekalla keralla ysiluokalla ja nyt toisen kerran lukion toisella. Kuten ysiluokalla en taaskaan muista kirjasta oikein mitään - tykkäsin kuitenkin :-)
Harmittaa hieman, että meni kymmenen vuotta ylimääräistä ennen kuin sain kirjaa luettua.
Olen iloinen, että sain edes nyt luettua.Tämä on vaarallinen kirja tunteellisille ihmisille, sillä kuolonuhrien määrä on suuri.
Mää ihastun ja tykästyn hahmoihin kuin eläviin ihmisiin, joten koin suurta tuskaa heitä menettäessä.
En ihan niin suurta kuin aikoinaan Sirius Mustan ja Fredin, Remuksen ja kumppanien kanssa.
Voi miehet, olitte ihania hahmoja!Muita suosikkeja oli ehdottomasti Vanhanen ja Rokka, sekä joitain muita.
Näissä kaikissa hahmoissa oli jotain, johon sai kosketuspintaa.
Suurin osa hahmoista oli myös enemmän tai vähemmän sympaattisia, uskollisia ja rohkeita.Mutta huhhuh mikä eepos.
Pitkä kuin nälkävuosi, mutta paljon se myös antoi.
Lukiossa luettu, kiireellä ja hätiköiden, koska a) ei kiinnostanut ja b) esseen deadline puski päälle. Jätin vielä viimeisen neljänneksen lukematta. Esseestä napsahti 10, kirjalle neljä tähteä. Pitänee lukea uusiksi joskus.
Thoughtful, fierce, often funny, and deeply distrustful of any authority that sets itself above the ordinary individual... I don't know the Finns well enough yet to say whether this book matches up with the Finnish spirit, but it certainly matches what I've seen so far.
Took a while, started off slow but once the book grew on me it was a much easier and better read.
