https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/512662.Codex_Seraphinianus_Ein_Orbis_Pictus_des_Universums_der_Phantasie_
Codex Seraphinianus is a natural history of the surreal, a book that truly defies categorization.
Sections in the work display flora, fauna, environmental or biological cycles, mechanical systems, modes of transportation, modifications to human anatomy, different forms of dress and dwelling places of what one must assume are more primitive peoples, a taxonomy of human heads, maps, pictures of notable places and historically-significant events, and costumes of whatever culture is being represented.
Here, there are no wrong answers and the representations merely serve as stepping off points for the imagination.
And isn't that one of the finest compliments that can be given to a book?___________________Addendum: Codex Seraphinianus is back in print!
نويسنده به گونه اى با جديت هر تصوير را توضيح داده و موجودات را تقسيم بندى و طبفه بندى كرده، كه انگار با زبانى واقعى در حال توضيح وظيفۀ هر يك از اندام هاى يك موجود واقعى است، و نمى توانى با تماشاى اين جديت در توضيح كاركرد هر چيز بى ربط، جلوى خنده ات را بگيرى!تجربۀ شخصیچند ماه بعد از خواندن کتاب، در صفحه گوگل پلاسم بخش هایی از این کتاب را گذاشتم، به همراه ترجمۀ خیالی خودم از آن، با لحن دانشنامه ای، جدی و علمی با ارجاعات دقیق.
لكن ما الذي قد أوتيه البشري يستطيع أن يكون أكثر دقة في التعبير عن المعنى أكثر من الكلمة، أهي الموسيقى؟ ألرسم؟ هل حقا يمكن أن يقارنا بالكلمة فضلا عن أن يتفوقا عليها؟هذه المسألة كانت تتأرجح في ذهني من دون أن تعثر على حل...
0هذا الكتاب العجيب كنت قرأت عنه منذ سنوات في كتاب تاريخ القراءة، و بقي ينمو في أحلامي، إلى أن أتى اليوم الذي أتيح لي قراءته أو بالأدق الدخول بعالمه، و الحق يقال أني وجدت تفاصيله السريالية _التي بدت أبهت حين تجسدها أمامي_ ليست هي مصدر الدهشة فيه بقدر ما هي الفكرة العبقرية بحد ذاتها، و ما تولده في رأسك من آلاف الأفكار...
This a weird art book. And by weird, I mean extremely weird. o.O
Ever since I saw it once on "world's weirdest books" list, I have wanted to possess it: however, the fact that it was very difficult to get hold of a copy and even if one was found, the price would very well drive it out of my reach forced me keep it on a very remote wishlist.
In some aspects, it is very much like our world: but as one looks closer, the weirdness begins to be apparent.
what meaning is hidden in those strange squiggles?The author may have meant it as a joke, but I think this book illustrates one profound characteristic of language.
﹅₪☌◘▲ ▲△૱§. ﹅§‰‱ ⊙⧉⧋₪﹆§◉. §▲ ▲◎△⧋₪§﹆ §▲. ▲△૱§ §‰▲. ▲△૱§ §‰‱. ‱▲△ ‰‱ ▲. △૱§ §‰﹅‱ ⊙⧉⧋₪§, ﹅﹆ §▲ ▲△૱§. §‰ ⊡ ⊙⧉⧋₪§, ⊙⧉§▲. ⊡ ⧋₪§ §▲ ▲△ ‱‰‱. ▲ ▲△૱ ▽◉﹅﹅❡.
Videorecensione: https://youtu.be/HEbQE0tlTpo
Remember that time when dad was in the military and he was stationed at Area 51. And he got transferred to that alien planet. And we had to go to live there for like three years. And we had to learn their language at the school. And the writing was some kind of weird calligraphy. And we got that science book with all those weird drawings in it. Well now you can buy that book on Amazon.
This book is the epitome of surreal.
This book is also one of the damn coolest things I've had the honor of looking at.
It wasn't cheap to get so this book ain't going nowhere!
With its bizarre untranslatable language with eerie, incredibly creepy drawings, it's one of the most fascinating things to ever exist in the literary world.
I'm kinda shocked it's not more famous.This book may be creepy, but it's also just beautiful.
Everyone needs to have at least one glimpse of this book.
This is an art book, oversized, with a fantastical premise: To appear like an encyclopedia of the unknown world, the imaginarium, complete with invented language.
A work of immense ambition and kind of breath-taking scope, it is sort of like if Jim Woodring and Charles Burns and 40 fantasy artists combined to create this volume of amazing and strange creatures .
only Serafini did it all, all by his lonesome.
And some of us seem to be calling it a comic, since it is sort of a collection of comics figures.
Strange and wonderful, in its way.
Con il Codex Serafini sfida le leggi della narrativa e le stravolge scrivendo un libro stranissimo, nel quale l’iconografia mescola immagini di fantasia con altre riconoscibili ma usate fuori dal loro contesto abituale e la scrittura è in una lingua asemica, fatta di segni che si ripetono, di maiuscole e minuscole, di tratti in grassetto, quasi a indicare la presenza di regole che pure sono destinate a rimanerci sconosciute.
Forse quello che ci chiede il Codex non è capire, spiegare, dare un senso, trovare una trama, procedendo in linea retta dall’inizio alla fine… ma lasciarci andare, seguire il ritmo, la nostra musica, aggirandoci tra le pagine del libro come tra i fiori di un prato, lasciandoci colpire da una figura, da un accostamento di immagini, da un gesto.
I could only get a PDF of this book, but going through it was like suddenly soaring up to a new level of awareness, of aesthetics, of pure beauty.
This book encompasses the heights of imagination and fantasy.
It is also a tempting promise, an insight into the tremendous human potential, it proves the extends to which art can reach if we only dare to imagine uninhibitedly, wildly,like a child before it is conditioned by its surroundings and society.
Actually found a copy of this for a steal.
The little shop had no idea what it is worth and as I read through it I have to wonder why it is worth so much.
Difficult to find a copy of this under five-hundred dollars, so I feel very fortunate to have found it at a reasonable book price.
However, I will probably sell it for a prophet when I am done reading it, since it's ridiculous value can't last forever, right?
My luck is that I will sell it and in ten years it will be worth a million bucks, oh well, so be it.
If the answer's not in here, you're asking the wrong question.
În cadrul acesteia, vom vorbi despre aceste cărți rare, excepționale, cărți de colecție sau cărți legendare de multe ori pierdute, cărți despre care, de obicei, doar auzim, fără a putea să le și citim.O astfel de carte de legendă este Codex Seraphinianus a italianului Luigi Serafini (arhitect, artist și designer industrial).

In his essay, "Codex Seraphinianus, Hallucinatory Encyclopedia," Peter Schwenger (specialist in liminal literature) writes: "To name things and to classify them are ways of bringing them into focus, both visually and as objects of knowledge; but the Codex brings into focus naming and classifications themselves, and implicitly reveals their systems of order to be hallucinatory." Schwenger thus suggests that systematizing and classifying are themselves illusory (i.e. subjective) endeavors.
Schwenger finds that the possibly meaningless language of the Codex "is no longer a transparent means of access to knowledge, but obtrudes itself in a dense and baffling materiality.
It is just ordered enough to promise the component of meaning that is associated with language -but that promise is not fulfilled.
* * ** * *Read the full text here: http://ubu.com/vp/Serafini.html
My entire experience with this book involves flipping to a random page and thinking "whoa...weird." I find this greatly rewarding, but others might not.
Mostly.Codex is a homegrown, hand-drawn field guide to somewhere we can see from afar in the little corners of our eyes but never reach.
Marvelous.Unlike its inter-species ancestor, The Voynich Manuscript, which was clearly written by an alien for aliens, Codex tastes better with lentils and doesn't have as many side-effects.
This book also enjoys being taken on leisurely strolls across the surface of Neptune, as you'll know.Though it's beautiful and shows some truly intense dedication, unfortunately it's not human-friendly enough to actually "read" it.
Well, not without the same amount of dedication that went into writing it, at least.A truly awe-inspiring piece of raw, unadulterated imagination at work.
Well, I did not exactly "read" it ... did anyone?
Impenetrable and nearly indescribable. What a creation! Like some lost Da Vinci notebook (if old Leonardo had been fond of LSD), it is filled with imaginative and intricately detailed drawings of strange machines, inventions, buildings, mutations, and charts categorizing otherworldly flora and fauna — all "explained" by lengthy paragraphs of an incomprehensible "Voynich Manuscript"-esque code. Is Serafini from another galaxy? An alternate universe? I almost believe so. Regardless, this is certainly worth examining just for the pictures and diagrams, many of which are truly spectacular and ingenious.
Um exercício de imaginação do autor que provoca um exercício de imaginação no leitor em tentar entender, e estranhar, essa enciclopédia de um universo ficcional onírico, escrita em um alfabeto alienígena.
E o carte pe care nu o citeşti propriu-zis, pentru că nu poţi să o faci. M-am simţit exact ca un copil care răsfoieşte o carte şi se mulţumeşte să privească ilustraţiile, iar Textul îi este inaccesibil, fiindcă nu cunoaşte alfabetul. Şi poate deaceea cartea i se pare mult mai plină de înţelesuri (neînţelese, evident) decît este în realitate.
This book is fucking drugs, even more so than Ernst's Une Semaine de Bonté. Read this and you'll be high as space junk. Black Moth Super Rainbow is the perfect soundtrack for this shit.

Non temete il deforme Alla fine della "lettura" di questa opera unica (per quanto sia discutibile si possa "leggere" il Codex), nell'esplosione di immagini incredibili, geniali, inclassificabili che Serafini ha affollato nella pagina, il sentimento principale che mi rimane è una serena meraviglia e una leggera e lucida ironia.
Una esperienza visiva e culturale da vivere, che parte dalla botanica, passa per la zoologia, l'antropologia, la geografia, la moda, le tecnica, l'urbanistica - ogni campo viene frullato da Serafini che ci propone visioni uniche e meravigliose!!
this book feels like discovering an entirely new world which is amazing because everything here is something that we have seen before combined to make you feel a surreal, disturbingly joyous experience. it is something that was never meant to be fully understood but somehow, it gives you a clearer idea of how our semi evolved simian brain will probably never be able to comprehend the culture of beings from another planets. it's kinda terrifying and yet somehow, wondrous too.
CODEX SERAPHINIANUS is a bizarre but enormously inventive work by the Italian artist Luigi Serafini, first published in 1981.
Over 300 pages handwritten in a completely unintelligible script (which, like the Voynich Manuscript that probably inspired it, may not even be decipherable), the Codex seems to be an encyclopedia about the Earth of a parallel dimension, where human beings like us exist, but with entirely different cultures and surrounded by alien flora and fauna.
What I do know is that reading the botanical and zoological portions of this book truly makes me feel like I am tripping balls, man.
A Not-So-Sacred Text For Those Who Believe In The Primacy Of ImaginationThis book really is as special as it was purported to be.
There are a great many art books out there, art monographs that collect the paintings and photographs of an artist or group of artists.
Some are even linked by a very specific theme, or setting, or models/characters, to give the monograph a more cohesive feel.
Every page, every illustration, every alien glyph, was created as an integral part of the whole, which in it's finished state would become an art book and objet d'art itself.
