https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/312077.The_Time_Garden
I think we would have enjoyed this book more if we had more knowledge about American history, we know very little and several of the time slip episodes happened in events that most US and Canadian readers would be familiar with but left us not understanding what was happening or what period it was set in.
I like children to think girls or boys can be friends and viewed as equal human beings and not suddenly interesting because they are viewed as potential love interests.
The story seemed to be aimed at fairly young children so I expect they would find this aspect boring.Many seem to love this series, not one we enjoyed though.
As always, Edward Eager's writing left me feeling happy :-) I love his style--it seems so warm and personal, and "The Time Garden" is a delightful fantasy with lots of humor and fun. Plus, it takes place in the summer so this was a good time to read it ;-)FYI: there are "Little Women" spoilers in this book :-)
I dearly love Edward Eager's books, so it was a bit painful to revisit this one and discover that it was not as good as I'd remembered it.
But a lot of the reader's enjoyment of the story will depend on their ability to recognize and appreciate American historical, cultural and literary references (which was a bit tough on my Canadian kid) and also their ability to ignore the casual racism toward North American Indians and other so-called "savages" who appear in the book ("Mom," said my son when we read the chapter about the island, "Cannibals don't just eat people randomly 'cause they taste good!
Reading Edward Eager's books to the kids has been a lot of fun. Are they great literature? No (but compared to much of what's published today, they're practically Shakespeare). But they really capture that mid-20th-century milieu, while blatantly and shamelessly giving nods to E. Nesbit's books from half a century earlier. (After all, what is the Natterjack but Eager's own Psammead?)In this book, the four children from  Knight's Castle  are spending the summer together by the ocean. The discover
Reading Edward Eager's books to the kids has been a lot of fun.
Nesbit's books from half a century earlier.
(After all, what is the Natterjack but Eager's own Psammead?)In this book, the four children from 
The discovery of a garden of thyme, presided over by a magical toad-like creature called a Natterjack, begins a series of adventures through time, including a couple visits to American history, encounters with Queens Elizabeth and Victoria, and even trips into their own parents' magical adventures.
Fictional worlds collide (including a brief cameo by Nesbit's Phoenix and its magical flying carpet).
I didn't know these books existed when I was a kid.
But I'm glad that my kids are discovering them.
Four cousins find a garden that allows them to travel magically through time (by sniffing thyme).
As in all of Eager's books, however, magic is unpredictable and often uncontrollable.
This is a great book to read aloud with a mixed age group because the thrills and danger are not too excessive for younger listeners, but the wit and history based humor will appeal to older kids and adults.
Another good thing about Eager is that his characters are realistic and interesting.
Solid moral values but with a sense of fun and self-deprecating humor.
I don't think I'd have found this any more interesting as a child than I do as an adult. Every time there was something there with potential, the book edged away from it. The concept of the time garden had real potential, but there was so little description or sense of space or presence within it that it was barely noticeable - a real shame for such a potentially lovely idea. The Natterjack didn't just pay homage to Edith Nesbitt, it was a washed and wrung-out version of a Nesbitt equivalent character.
Not my favorite so far in the series, but still clever and cute. We really enjoyed the time travel, and how the kids actually run into their parents years earlier on their own magic adventure.
Oh dear. How embarrassing. Even for the Natterjack I can't bring myself to give it more than 2 stars.
Four cousins re-unite for magic holiday while Roger's dad puts on a London play, other parents tour Europe.
Cousin Eliza looks angry in drawings, sure to "cross two fingers of one hand, behind her back" p 51.
(hide spoiler)]A drawing of a teen couple in falling snow, girl with hands tucked in warm muff precedes when Old Mrs Whiton drives them to the home of Louisa Alcott, author of Little Women.
(hide spoiler)]The children then meet Queen Elizabeth I.
(view spoiler)[Eliza adlibs, caught misbehaving by magic in their modern limb-exposing outfits, but needs rescuing from the Tower of London.
The characters were slightly annoying (one was pre-occupied with girls and served as the "negative Nancy" throughout the whole book, one was an arrogant and selfish snot of a girl and the others were just along for the ride and served only as fodder for the story).This was a "give away after reading" book for me.
Interesting idea but fell short with characters and description.
Their magical guide this time is a Natterjack--a frog-like creature who minds the garden and the magic.As they use the thyme for time travel, all sorts of adventures ensue.2.5 stars, really.
We still liked it and the kids were still eager to listen to it, but quite a bit of the history went over their heads, especially the adventures in the last half of the book.
So by the end it was dragging a bit and they were ready to be done with it and move on.They have talked about testing out our garden thyme though, just in case.
This time Roger and Ann, and their cousins, are packed off to the seaside for the summer, and discover a garden of thyme where a froggy Natterjack uses the magic of thyme to send them back in time on various adventures.I love how random and funny the magical adventures are, and how the cousins all have different reactions to the time-traveling situations they get into.
Ann is compassionate and sweet and takes the time to notice other people and their needs.
Then there's Jack, who is growing up into teenhood, has little interest in magic, and starts noticing girls.There is something so wholesome and delightful about each of these books that keeps me reading and coming back again and again!

I really, really, REALLY hated the illustrations of the natterjack. Hated them so much it interfered with my enjoyment of this otherwise enchanting and enchanted story. I loved the central, thyme-y conceit here. I beg to differ that EVERYONE wanted Jo to end up with Laurie in Little Women, however. I'm a huge Eager fan, and this is a lovely entry in the canon.
A children's magical adventure very much in the vane of E.Nesbit stories. Unfortunately, it's constantly acknowledging how similar it is to the works of E.Nesbit, which does not help matters. It is especially unhelpful due to the fact that it is quite dissimilar in one respect, which is that it is nowhere near as imaginative. It picks up quite a bit towards the end but is still fairly tame and boring compared to the predecessors it tries to ape.
Edward Eager's books are classics, and some of my very favorites from childhood. The illustrations by N.M. Bodeker were a huge influence on me, and I loved the stories (you think Harry Potter is original? Hardly). These are excellent books, published mid-century, that build on a foundation laid decades earlier by masters like E. Nesbit.
It would be nice if books that are part of a series would say somewhere on the binding which number in the series it is. I may have enjoyed this book more if I'd read books 2 and 3. I've read book one - Half Magic which I enjoyed a lot more than this book. I found the characters flat, so I didn't really care what happened to them. Their adventures were kind of boring as well.
Since I am a gardener, I loved this book. I read it out loud to Will, and we were both so excited to pick it up each night. Half Magic is still my favorite by this author, though.
awwww....I love Edgar Eager books. It has a kind of old fashioned feel to it that adds soooo much charm.
Run-of-the-mill. At end of story, the plan to go to school together in London was too convenient, and unnecessary besides.
Witty, humorous, magical and historical. My roommates and i read this book aloud to each other just for fun :)
One of those books that you'll retrieve from the children's section over and over again, no matter how old you are.
Oh this is a nice gem of a book!
Nesbitt's stories and British tales then you're definitely enjoy this book!
And how you are able to time travel by sniffing the thyme plant.
How fun it is to be a young child and you are able to go back in history and give advice to the Queen Elizabeth the first?!
Or see your mother as a young child?
Anyways I don't want to give away the story too much.
I'm definitely going to find a frog statue and plant some thyme in the garden.
I hope to find some more magic in his other books.
At some point, you'd think these books would get tired, you think they'd get repetitive, you'd think they'd lose their charm, as of yet that has not happened. I might start to feel that way when they start to stray into other families in the future. But thus far, this one is just as delightful as the rest. I particularly love the visit to the March family, and strong-willed Eliza continues to be my favorite of this set of characters.
Entertaining and enjoyable,but I didn't like this one as much as the first three. I hope that doesn't mean the series is getting stale.Although the adventure was enjoyable (although not all that exciting), I quickly tired of the Natterjack and it's kind of annoying and inconsistent accent.I look forward to the rest of the series, but I hope I find the final magical adventures a little more, well, magical.So, liked it; didn't love it.
I enjoyed this book very much but I have to say that Jack ruined things for me - like... completely. I still enjoy the rest of the characters and I'm loving the series but seriously, I cannot put up with Jack. I must say that I am truly quite happy with this magical discovery of Edward Eager's book. They're really special.
An amazing little book. I read it when I was a kid and just re-read it in a day. It's so fantastical and whimsical and filled with adventure. It's a part of a series of books about magic that are all incredible , but this one is one of my favorites. It's slightly racist, but it was written in the fifties, so I was expecting way worse. It's actually a pretty feminist book, too. This is one of those books I will keep and read to my children.
If you've read Nesbit, then stick to Nesbit. But if I was building a library for young children, I'd definitely include Eager. He's an easy read, just smart enough for me (an adult) to finish, and not too hard for a child. I probably would have read these more than once as a kid.
This book was a lot more fun than the others so far in the series. It was happier and lighter. Fun magic adventures still occurred but they don't get into as much trouble so it is a little less stressful.
One of my all-time fav kid series from my childhood.
