https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1985704.W_A_Mozart
The film did serve to bring Mozart's music back to the masses but it was a massacre of historical fact.Next, the fascinating aspect is truly the relationship between Mozart and Leopold his father.
This is something that the Einstein book on Mozart dives into head first but which is carefully dissected and explained by Abert.Also, I found it fascinating that Mozart was first the child genius of the period - a sort of Macauley Culkin from Home Alone - but when the initial shine wore off, his life was a constant struggle to find that past glamour.
My Review: There are works that persist through the passage of time... that permeate the dusty sheath that both binds and separates the past from the present. Works that, when filtered through a retrospective lens, continue to maintain the very essence of a divine-like creation, like the building blocks of an intricately complex monument - a world wonder that has existed though the ages. One that sparks generations of inquiry by those drawn to its magnificence, to its penetrating and majestic f
The old adage 'good things come to those who wait' applies.In the 86 years that passed between Abert’s release in the German tongue in 1921 and Eisen’s edit / Spencer’s translation into English in the present century, many important discoveries have come to light concerning Herr Mozart - once hidden treasures unearthed from dusty archives across the European continent, advances in science and in medicine and its education have offered fresh perspectives on diseases and on the early mortalities that plagued generations past (and had taken preternaturally the lives of so many of our favorite composers), indeed altering the history, and therefore the scholarship of our not-so distant ancestors.
This is a huge book (1388 pages) which took me over a month to read. It is the classic, century-old biography of Mozart, reprinted with some factual matter updated in the footnotes; the biographical material is somewhat outdated, but the analysis of the works is great and there is much useful discussion of the other composers and trends of the time. Only for those with a serious interest in Mozart's music.
Great book, Abert's grasp of musical style change is incredible, and Eisen is great at presenting Abert's take and then his own, keeping them separate so you can see how research has evolved. Too bad the darn thing is so heavy that you need a wheeled backpack simply to carry it around - they should have issued it in two volumes.
This book deserves a five star rating because it is quite simply the most profoundly complete work about Mozart ever written. It is now translated into English so that even more scholars and enthusiasts can benefit from its collective wisdom.
*
