https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18597003-the-three-days-blow
Another boring story from Ernest Hemingway, this time about two boys who drink together in the woods. One of the boys just broke up with his girlfriend for no reason, and the other boy convinces him to repress his feelings because he thinks women have no meaning or importance. I wish Hemingway allowed his male characters to experience their emotions instead of submerging them in substances and sexism. Not recommended, because I know you have better things to read.
Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar, and sometimes a reader just enjoys a story. Ignore the deeps, and get drunk and go outside to watch the storm.
Nothing going on in this story. Just two guys hanging out and having a conversation. He makes an allusion to wind blowing leaves off a tree, like the end of a relationship. Some deep thing like that but just a built scene with no action.
I knew right away that I should have skipped this story in this compilation and should not have even thought of subjecting myself to another one of Hemingway’s attempts at literature.Okay, so now you’re probably asking yourself why I am so against Hemingway.
He didn’t care about anyone or anything except his booze and wrote floozy stories that are so read and admired today that it makes me a bit sick to my stomach.Anyway, I’m supposed to be writing a review.
Whatever.So, from my first few paragraphs you can probably already tell what I’m going to say about the writing.
Understanding the particular stage in life that Nick is at makes this piece. The 3-day wind parallels the inner emotional turmoil he's been feeling since the break-up. The drink gets the tongue wagging with his buddy as a means to hide his pain. Discussing Walpole/Chesterton, the Cards, fishing and going hunting are all a distraction for Nick. The barren landscape mirrors his dispassion. He's broken. He has yet to understand how to handle women. Great story for any male in his late 20's adjusting to the demands and natural calling of a serious relationship.
There's always that time, in that place, where the wind will blow strong for three days, ripping off the leaves from trees. It just happens.Nick lost his love, and he wonders why, but it just happened.
I think there comes a point in every man's life where we try to be stronger than we really are. Pretend like there is no problems. Hold back our emotions. But then a storm comes along and we can't hold back anymore. Then we fall back to who we truly are. Hemingway captured this perfectly here.
Read in The Snows of Kilimanjaro and Other Stories. Nick is questioning his breakup. His friend says not to worry about it because women aren't important. Then they get drunk. Two young guys repressing their feelings and acting tough.
Boring. I did not like the repetition of: "...." Nick said. "...." Bill said. "..." Nick said. Perhaps I am too used to Russian melodrama, nevertheless practically nothing happens and I would not recommend this.
Talking and drinking, they finally discuss Nick's breaking off his romantic relationship with Marjorie.
Nick picks up a "Wagner apple." He puts it in the pocket of his "Mackinaw coat."Almost immediately, Bill offers Nick a drink — and from this point onward, we watch and listen as the two young men get increasingly drunk.
Frustrated by the small talk, Bill suggests getting drunk.Finally, Bill shifts to the real subject: Nick's breaking off with Marjorie.
Women, he contends, ruin a man; a married man is "done for." Sitting quietly, Nick realizes how much he lost when he broke off with Marjorie.

بیل به نیک توصیه می کنه که قید عشق رو بزنه و به همون تفریحات مردونه قدیمی خودشون بپردازند . نیک میره چوب بیاره و از جلوی آینه رد میشه و احساس می کنه که خودش رو توی آینه نمی شناسه . نیک ذاتا عاشقه .از قبل هم به فکرش رسیده که شاید دیگه هیچ وقت تبدیل به اون آدم قدیمی نشه . به همین خاطر وقتی بیل بهش توصیه می کنه که دیگه سراغ عشق نره٬ ساکت می مونه . خودش هم میدونه که این با ذاتش جور در نمیاد . او ذاتا عاشقه
Two guys meettalk baseballtalk authorsget more and more drunkone guy mourns after his girl he broke up withand thinks about getting back together but you know he won'thurray, what a work of literature.
Didn't quite get what the message is about. Is it about the boy's ex-girlfriend or their grudge for nonchalant fathers? Or their mutual penchant for football?
boy who lose his girlfriend,feel sorrow~pain is the only way to happiness
