https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50618.The_Book_of_Illusions
Rating: one furious, disgusted star of however many stars there are in a galaxyI've never been fond of pompous writing, the kind that checks its look in the mirror of acclaim and piles on the self-satisfied smirking smugness that makes me want to torch all the MFA schools I can reach.My review, which I've moved to my blog, says that and more. Apparently the hoi polloi slithering in from the Internet's more sanctimonious quarters don't agree with me, therefore I must be wrong.
After seeing one of the silent comedies of Hector Mann, an actor missing since the 1920s, he decides to occupy himself by watching all of Mann's films and writing a book about them.
تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در ماه نوامبر سال 2009 میلادیعنوان: کتاب اوهام ؛ نویسنده: پل آستر (اوستر)؛ مترجم: امیر احمدی آریان؛ تهران، مروارید، چاپ دوم 1386؛ در 340 ص؛ شابک: 9789648838268؛ چاپ چهارم 1391؛ چاپ پنجم 1395؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 مدیوید زیمر استاد دانشگاه است و نویسنده؛ همسر و فرزندانش در سقوط هواپیما کشته شده اند؛ و او دچار افسردگی ست.
Soon after the book is published the wife of the supposedly dead film-maker contacts Zimmer to ask if he might like to meet the man himself.
There is much parallelism here, Zimmer with both Hector Mann, the ancient film-maker and Chateaubriand, the author of a lengthy autobiography that Zimmer is translating.
And a character in the book ultimately succeeds in such an attempt.What is real and what is illusion?
His film The Life of Martin Frost echoes the book’s theme of illusion.
I wish that I had kept better track of characters.
I was encouraged, however, to read more of Auster.
This book has been on my shelves for a long time, the first Auster I bought.
I just love Brooklyn Follies, was intrigued by Man in the Dark and Auggie Wren's Xmas story is great as well.
The story line is intriguing: A man looses his wife and two children in a plane crash.
In sorrow, he is fascinated by a silent movie actor, who disappeared from the face of the earth a long time ago, and writes a book about him.
Paul Auster is not an easy read,always troubling in a way, but his style is beautiful, poetic and his stories always fascinating.
Paul Auster, you bastard!The man writes such depressing stuff.
He then decides to write about the star of this silent comedy, a man named Hector Mann.
I was particularly impressed by how Auster writes about a film that doesn't actually exist.
I'm cool with that.In summary, though: "Paul Auster, you bastard!" is my review.
If you likewise enjoy calling famous authors bastards, then I recommend this book to you highly.As a side note, a result of this novel, I had to add a new shelf called "bepretentious." Just read some of the other, actually useful reviews and you'll see what I mean.
This book rambles, and in doing so touches on so many intertwined narratives that one almost gives up on what was assumed to be the original plot and assumes the opening catch phrase was just another Paul Auster smoke screen story line.
The world created in this book is done with such care and is so full of unexpected and tangential details that I found myself wondering if I wasn't perhaps reading a work of historical fiction rather than just a plain old novel.
A man's life is an illusion to all except those who share in it.
Men whose realities take a turn towards the vague, so much so, that they seem to dress themselves in the vagueness that surrounds them.
There are two of those men in The Book of Illusions: the narrator and Hector Man. Bound to each other, they meet only for an hour toward the end but the echo of their meeting is present after as much as before the event.What strange time for me to read this particular book!
The worst is that, once it’s gone, one can never be sure if it was ever even there.Don’t be fooled, The Book of Illusions is so much more than my clouded mind can produce right now.
This famous question is closely examined in "The Book of Illusions," by author Paul Auster, as he tells the story of literature professor David Zimmer, who copes with the death of his wife and two sons by shutting out the real world so that he can inhabit the "silent world of Hector Mann," an obscure actor from the 1920s.
However, ultimately, both of Auster’s protagonists – David Zimmer and Hector Mann – seem to repudiate Frieda and believe that Hector’s work does not lose meaning if it is shared with others.
کتاب من از دل اندوه و افسوس عمیقی زاده شده بود. حتی حالا که آن دوران را پشت سر گذاشتهام آن اندوه رهایم نکرده است. نوشتن درباره کمدی بهانهای بیش نبود، دارویی بود که یک سال تمام هر روز بی رعایت زمان بندی میخوردم تا درد درونم را آرام کند. از برخی جهات این دارو اثر کرد.متن از کتاب
کتاب من از دل اندوه و افسوس عمیقی زاده شده بود. حتی حالا که آن دوران را پشت سر گذاشته‌ام آن اندوه رهایم نکرده است. نوشتن درباره کمدی بهانه‌ای بیش نبود، دارویی بود که یک سال تمام هر روز بی رعایت زمان بندی می‌خوردم تا درد درونم را آرام کند. از برخی جهات این دارو اثر کرد.‎متن از کتاب
Travelling around the world in order to visit the film archives containing Hector's few movies, David channels his obsession into a book about the actor's work.
However, the story really begins some time after this, when David receives a mysterious letter containing some startling news about Hector.The Book of Illusions displays many characteristics of Auster's typical style, most noticeably the constant presence of symbolism, the perceived significance of art and the line between reality and (as the title suggests) illusion.
Being drawn into Paul Auster's fiction was one of the reasons my reading became more widespread.
Traversing through the American mid-west and finally New Mexico, nothing could prepare Zimmer for just what is about to follow...This could be viewed as the brother to 'The New York Trilogy', covering roughly the same sort of ground in places here, but whereas TNYT had cold complexities that either sucked you in, or drove you away, this although complex, has a warmer feel to it and by far is easier to read.
Hardcore Auster fans may view this as not his best, but I was totally immersed from start to finish, even if it wasn't the ending I was crying out for.
Μου θύμισε εκείνη τη φράση που ειπώθηκε δια στόματος Μάθιου Μακόναχι στην πρώτη σεζόν του True Detective: "To realize that all your life, all your love, all your hate, all your memories, all your pain, it was all the same thing. It was all the same dream, a dream that you had inside a locked room, a dream about being a person". Μεγάλος Auster και πάλι.
I just recommended this book to someone stranded in the Minneapolis airport. I had forgotten how much I liked it until I saw it sitting there quietly on the shelf, minding it's own business.This is why real books are so much more awesome than ebooks--they come back to tickle your mind. That, and when you spill wine on them (like I did on my copy of The Book of Illusions) they don't give up the ghost in an electric funeral.Anyhow. Take that, Minneapolis.
A surprising book that is riveting through to the final words.
I say "surprising" because at first it's not clear as to what kind of book this is going to be.
As with some of Auster's other work, the novel is told through a first-person narrator who happens to be a writer.
We get long accounts of the book he is writing (about a silent filmmaker who went missing some years prior) and almost forget that there is a narrator involved, that we aren't reading a third-person account of this filmmaker's strange life.
Primo romanzo che leggo di un autore, Paul Auster, di cui ho letto sempre bene, special modo per il suo romanzo più famoso, vale a dire "Trilogia di N.Y".
Questi ultimi in particolar modo sono così dettagliati e descritti alla perfezione, che ti lasciano la sensazione esatta di aver visto anche tu quel film.E' un romanzo che rapisce e incanta, una storia dolorosa raccontata da un amico, che ti si confida e si apre via via che il romanzo prosegue.
Το βιβλίο δεν διακρίνεται από τη δαιδαλώδη πλοκή του, ενώ η ανάγνωση κυλάει αργά, τουλάχιστον αυτή είναι η προσωπική μου εμπειρία, και ο αναγνώστης που είναι εξοικειωμένος με τη γραφή του Όστερ νιώθει ότι βρίσκεται σε γνώριμο έδαφος με αποτέλεσμα αυτό να δρα αρνητικά, καθώς αισθάνεται κανείς ότι διαβάζει για μια ακόμη φορά το ίδιο βιβλίο.
Το γεγονός αυτό, όπως και μια έντονη και εμφατική αυτοαναφορικότητα του συγγραφέα θεωρώ ότι αποτελούν τα μεγάλα μείον του ''Βιβλίου των Ψευδαισθήσεων'', χωρίς αυτό να σημαίνει ότι δεν αξίζει τον κόπο να το εντάξει κανείς στη βιβλιοθήκη του, ειδικότερα εάν είναι η πρώτη του επαφή με τον Όστερ.
Oh Mr. Auster, what are we to do with you?
This might have been the last book I end up reading by Paul Auster.
It's been a nice ride, but I think he's run his course in my literary life.
There was a lot in this novel that I found almost laughably cliche, but the bath tub sex scene towards the end stands out in my mind.
I think it's best for writers to stay away from sex scenes in 'literary fiction', and if you are going to attempt such a thing, better keep it nice and vague.
I read this more than ten years ago, so I cannot write a detailed review. But I can still remember the feeling of eagerly reading this book. And that's a good memory.
كتاب اوهام كتابيست كه انگار تمام كتابهاى قفسه را يك به يك برداشته ايد روزها و ماه و سالها وقت صرف كرده ايد ،روى كاناپه و موكت و تخت و پشت ميز نشسته ايد ،دانه دانه كتاب ها را زندگى كرده ايد.كتاب اوهام همان فيلمى ست كه با تمام وجود ،پلان به پلان ديده ايد و حتى قسمتى كوچك از كادر هم از ديدتان در نرفته...
كتاب اوهام همينقدر جذاب شما را به زندگى، به لحظه ها، به سكانسها دعوت ميكند.كتاب اوهام لبريز است ....
This sucked.
Sucked sucked sucked sucked sucked.
Utterly mediocre.
Shoddily written, never pretty and often not even competent (a rough third of the book consists of the narrator describing movies which don't exist).
The characters are paper thin, their motivations largely nonsensical.
Its got Auster's usual obsessions about identity, and writing as a form of creation, and blah blah blah, but it doesn't lead into anything meaningful.
This was my third Auster book, as mentioned, and I feel confident it's going to be my last.
One more exhibit that the modern critical establishment just doesn't have a goddamn idea what they're doing.
Okuduğum ikinci Paul Auster kitabıydı.Yine adım adım beni avuçlarına aldı.Okudukça sevdim, sevdikçe okudum.David Zimmer'in, kendisi gibi ölüm ve yaşam arasında bir yerlerde var olmaya çalışan bir komedi oyuncusunun hayatını inceleyerek başladığı hayata geri dönüş yolculuğunu seveceksiniz. Çünkü hepimiz bazen kayboluruz, bizi mahveden olaylar yaşar ve yolumuzu bulamayacağımızı sanırız. Ama hayat yaşamak için var ve görmeyi istersek bir sürü çıkış yolu gözlerimizin önünde.
Paul Auster needs to stop.
Now. In the beginning (starting with The New York Trilogy) his work was an interesting theoretical experiment.
I'm tempted to accuse him of plagiarizing the Paul Auster of 20 years ago.
The transcription of that court case would be like a general survey of his career and what he still insists on doing in his literature.
The judge (Paul Auster) would find everyone equally guilty and sentence them to a contrived, irrational suicide.Auster has taken an interesting device for writing a single novel, and made it into his theory of literature.An almost ridiculously funny book.
Como sempre, demorar um mês ou mais (como foi o caso) a ler um livro é mau sinal.
Custou-me um bocado entrar na história, já que eu não estava nada à espera de começar com uma monografia sobre o cinema mudo do início do século vinte, e, quando a história supostamente a ficar interessante, eu já tinha desmotivado.Claro que se eu tivesse conseguido gostar da história, ou das personagens, as dificuldades iniciais não teriam tido qualquer impacto.
Infelizmente não gostei da história por aí além, e não consegui relacionar-me com qualquer uma das personagens.Leva duas estrelas porque a escrita do autor dá-me esperança de que o próximo seja melhor.
ვიტყოდი, რომ ოსტერის საუკეთესო ტესტია, რაც მე წამიკიტხავს-მეთქი, მაგრამ "შუშის ქალაქი" და "ოგი რენის საშობაო ამბავივით" მაინც ვერ შემაყვარა თავი.ისე კი ძალიან კარგი წიგნია.უბრალოდ ამ კაცს რასაც დავაკვირდი, ზოგჯერ ძაან წიკებში გადასდის ამბებში კიდევ ახალი ამბების მოგონება, რაც ყოველთვის სასიამოვნო ნამდვილად არ ვერ არის ხოლმე. ამის გამო -1 ვარსკვლავი. თუმცა ფრიად ბომბი ავტორი რომაა, წყალი არ გაუვა ამას! <3
უკომენტაროდ , უმაგრესია❤"არსებობს ფიქრები,რომლებსაც შეუძლიათ შეშალონ ადამიანი,მახინჯი ძალმოსილების აზრები,გაფიქრებისთანავე რომ გხრწნიან.მეც მეშინოდა იმის,რაც ვიცოდი,მეშინოდა რომ ამ ცოდნის გამო საშინელების განცდას ვერ მოვიშორებდი,ამიტომ იმ ფიქრების სიტყვებად გარდათქმა არ მინდოდა და თავს მანამდე ვარიდებდი,სანამ სიტყვებმა ჩემზე ძალაუფლება არ დაკარგეს."
A few of my favorite things: smart men, secret lives, cinema, facial scars, multi-layered mystery, artistic masterpieces unveiled, itchy sexual tension...I can't love this book any more. One of my favorite books ever.
4,5/5
Zimmer begins to investigate the work of Hector Mann, an interest which becomes an obsession which takes him on a quest to see the 12 films which were mailed, anonymously, to 12 museums around the world.
This sets off a series of events no one could anticipate.Auster writes with such convincing detail that the first part of his book reads almost like a documentary, so much so that I wanted to google Hector Mann and find out what Wikipedia had to say about him.
With the help of a few stories here and a tale there, David puts the pieces together and ultimately finds what he's looking for, in more ways than one.
Unlike Paul Auster's other works, as in "The New York Trilogy" I was very satisfied with the ending for "The Book of Illusions." It's satisfying in the fact not because it is a so-called "happy ending" but because it makes you question your own life, the connections you have to other people, and how things happen for a reason.
No es la primera vez que tengo esta sensación con Auster: la obra empieza bien, crea sensación de intriga, te mantiene a lo largo de trescientas páginas y justo en las últimas veinte o treinta, pum...
Es como si Paul Auster no sepa como terminar la obra, como si no supiera hacerla redonda y la terminara con golpes repentinos (suicidio, muertes histriónicas; coletazos de un pintor cansado de estar ante el mismo cuadro día tras día).
En otras obras tiene su pase, en este caso creo que la obra queda coja.
Auster siempre agrada pero, como he podido comprobar, también sabe decepcionar.
