https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44757.Kirkland_Revels
Fun dive back into my teenage reading habits with this classic Victoria Holt.I used to devour Holt, and still have several in storage. This one I bought at a used book sale at my local library.Every Holt book follows a predictable plotline and has interchangable heros, heroines and villians. I say that like it's a bad thing, but truthfully it's comforting to snuggle up with a Holt book and be charmed by the fiesty, plain heroine and her verbal duels with the attractive, always amused hero.Good literary comfort snack food.
I went back to a book that I last read and loved as a teenager.
The story is told from the point of view of nineteen year old Catherine Corder.
After coming home from finishing school Catherine meets Gabriel while out riding.
She also finds a mistreated dog which Gabriel helps her rescue.
Matthew Gabriel’s father and his Aunt Sarah welcome Catherine.
Death and mysterious happenings occur that leave Catherine frightened, questioning her sanity and wondering who she can trust.
It’s made me nostalgic to go back and read some other books from younger days.
A three star read but an extra half star for nostalgia’s sake.
3.5Holt did not disappoint with her cast of colorful characters and a mystery that kept me guessing. The first half was a little drab for me but by the second half I was rapt. The twists and turns toward the end were delightful. Honestly I don't care whether I have figured out who the culprit is in these novels or not. So many reviewers seem to be bothered by that. It's the journey that matters. The atmosphere that is created, the vividly real characters, the angst - all served up in engaging style by Holt.
I keep losing my reviews. You'd think I'd learn to copy first before I hit save. So, substitute review until I can get back and rewrite it. Terrific book. I'm two for two for this author so far. Flat out keep me in suspense until the very last minute. Definitely would recommend it.
What an entertaining book!!! Why can't they ALL be this good? If you only read 100 books this year, make sure 99 of them are by Victoria Holt. Just kidding. Actually, some of her titles are filled with too much "filler", but not this one. This one comes out punching pretty quickly, and doesn't let up for an instant.One of the most entertaining books I've EVER read.
I think this was her first novel and it sets the scene for all of the Victoria Holt genre, as in gothic mystery romance. Lonely young woman finds herself in a strange situation where her life is under threat from a mystery person. They are highly entertaining, easy reads, great when you don't want to be weighted down by some great masterpiece!
KIRKLAND REVELS (Gothic Suspense-England-1800s) – G+Holt, Victoria – 2nd bookFawcett Crest, 1962-US PaperbackFirst Sentence: I met Gabriel and Friday on the same day, and, strangely enough I lost them together; so that thereafter, I was never able to think of one without the other.*** Catherine Corder marries Gabriel Rockwell more out of affection and to escape an unaffectionate father than out of real love.
I was amazed how much I still enjoyed it.
It is a classic gothic suspense with the gutsy female protagonist, a large, brooding building, an undefined threat to her life, sanity and/or child, and a romantic interest to support her.
I consider this the sunniest of Victoria Holt's beautiful gothic romances... Pure pleasure in reading this... Evokes the beauty of the English countryside...
One of Holts shorter stories. I just love a good Gothic romance murder mystery. She had me second guessing the villain to the end. Victoria Holt paints a pretty picture of the landscape and buildings. I never tire of reading her work even though the plot is generally very similar. I find that the characters have such life to them, that even though they are not central to the love story line, I read for the pleasure of getting to know them.
Books written by Victoria Holt are so cheesy, but sometimes that's exactly what you need. I've read a loooot of her books when I was 14/15 years old..that was the last time I've read them. I absolutely loved them at the time. I'm thinking of reading one of her books just for the old times sake! =)
Very good plot, unique characters that didn't hit the stereotypical - heroine (TSTL syndrone)/villian (ugly, smelly, bad posture) - and a few other characters throw into the mix that were hard to define as being good or not good until the very end.
But what would these books be without a heroine in peril, right?Marks off because of Friday (view spoiler)[the dog who disappeared at the beginning of the story.
(hide spoiler)] For that reason alone, never mind the villian killed the heroine's husband, I'd push him off a high cliff.Anyway, good atmospheric descriptions of the manor house, ruined abbey, mysterious tunnels, Yorkshire Jane Eyre-ish desolation and the elements.Good stuff!
An entertaining story.
In a way sad.
Like romances, it has the familiar patterns.
A young woman who in some way, must prove herself.
A man who is reviled at first, comes to become attractive.
Status, wealth and family in the end.
I don't think the "Alfred Hitchcock" statement on the cover is to be taken too seriously.
What sad about it is that death and murder are all too horrid but all too easy going.
Happy endings eliminate all.
The characters are, of course, flat, and the main motive of the story is to change how the reader feels about them all.
Victoria Holt is always readable even though her plots are often transparent and predictable. I turn to her books when I'm in need of a relaxing, unchallenging book which I can pick up and put down without a thought.
I am sure that I read this back in high school when I was going through a Victoria Holt phase but I didn't remember it at all. It was good though. Typical Victoria Holt, gothic romance. The main character was likeable and the plot intriguing. Overall a good read.
She knows she can’t trust anyone but goes around trusting just about everyone (especially one she should so obviously not trust)!”That said, it was still a good story, just frustrating because you’re sidebarring to Catherine: “No. What are you doing?
Catherine meets Gabriel while they are rescuing a dog, and their friendship turns into a whirlwind romance.
There are LOTS of clues she's getting herself into something over her head, but like many young people she marries not so much for love as for escape.
Gabriel, like the dog, seems to need love and rescue.
But from what?A gothic romance setting needs an old house with a perhaps sketchy past, and Gabriel's home, Kirkland Revels certainly is that.
Both Kirkland Revels and the abbey are dangerous: the mansion since two of its owners suicided by jumping off its top floor and the abbey due to an unprotected well..and both by, perhaps, ghosts.
I don't recall a particular favorite (i was a voracious reader, but not particularly discriminating), but I picked this up for a quarter and decided to give it a go.The writing isn't bad, but quite a lot of redundancy in description and dialogue (no worries if you missed something the first time around, it will be repeated!).
Like many others readers, I also read this book at a much, much younger age.
I read it in German and as a teen found it fascinating and enchanting.
This book is a far cry from anything you’d find me reading today, I remember it for its suspense and setting.
Of course the romantic conclusion is inevitable, the whirlwind marriage Ill advised, and the antagonists are all but wearing name tags.
What I liked most is that this story walks the perfect line between suspense and creepy.
Some reviewers say that they have re-read it as an adult, while prefer to keep it as a happy memory.
Gothic goodness, even if a bit predictable. Satisfying ending.
I haven't read this since I was a tween, and I had forgotten how good it actually is. On par with Rebecca, its understated suspense kept me turning pages when I should've been doing chores ; -)
Always enjoy reading Victoria Holt and she did not disappoint. For those that enjoy romantic mysteries, I think you would enjoy this story.
This was a sweet book, I thought it started a little sloppy with all the references to what was going to happen a few chapters in, but it picked up pace.But the amount of alcohol she consumed while pregnant, wow, different times.Also the dog, poor Friday.
This is one of Holt's better stories.
I still love the pictures she creates with words.
This story had a few twists that threw me off a bit, which I haven't experienced in any of the more recent reads of Holt's.
Catherine Corder is a naive yet strong woman who hastily marries the mysterious Gabriel.
She is received rather cooly by her in-laws, expecially Ruth, Gabriel's sister.
This behavior is alleged to be due to the fact that Catherine and Gabriel married after knowing each other for so little time.
After 4 years of French Boarding school Catherine returns to her home to her fathers house.
Her father does not meet her with the carriage, nor does her beloved Uncle Dick, she is disappointed.
She does not have any idea what to do with her life, and meets a young man while out riding on the moors, a whirlwind romance happens, and she is whiskey away to Kirkland Revels, which is a sinister house with secrets.
Some one is trying to kill Catherine, she is carrying the heir, and now she and her unborn baby are both in danger.
This would have been a lot better if it wasn't so predictable.
It's not very exciting reading a mystery when you've sused the culprit but the heroine is so oblivious to the obvious.
This also makes people's actions all the more annoying.
Also, many aspects of the plot were very similar to The Shivering Sands (the crazy older aunt who sees/knows everything but speaks in riddles, the old ailing master of the house, *SPOILER* the murderer who believes they are the illegitimate child of the master and therefore the rightful air but in reality they don't have any relation to the family).

When I read Victoria Holt's Mistress of Mellyn I figured out pretty early in the book who the menace was, not so with Kirkland Revels. I pretty much suspected everyone in the book, so I wasn't too surprised with the outcome, although I was relieved when certain characters were found to be innocent. Holt did an excellent job of writing Catherine's fears and frustrations at the hands of her unknown tormentor, as well as her terror at the thought of being institutionalized against her will.
While not as good as Mistress of Mellyn, this novel was a success! It was a nicely written mystery mixed in with romance and friendship. Lonlieness is a large contributor also. While the love part didn't sit well with me between Catherine and Simon - as they seemed to rarely talk and about things that suggested they even liked each other, but Catherine was an okay character to like. Holt has written a decent book, easy to read, always keeps you guessing with underlying values between friends and family.
Despite a slightly plodding start, come about a quarter of the way in this becomes an engaging tale, with plenty of mystery and suspense.I like the West Yorkshire moorland setting - I'm from East Yorkshire myself - and the way the author brings the second half of the nineteenth-century vividly to life.Therefore, the setting, the well-crafted plot, and the believable characters all add up to a very good read.
I really enjoyed this gothic romance.Victoria Holt is the queen of them.Catherine marries Gabriel very quickly after meeting him and he takes her to his family estate.2 weeks later he is found dead and Catherine believes he was murdered.Then She discovers she is pregnant and her baby is the heir to the family fortune.Someone doesn't want the baby to be born!.Several twists makes this a very interesting read
