https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34312.The_Copper_Beech
It is very deftly done and highlights yet again how people can live in the same place and share a moment, a decade, a life and yet experience it so differently.
I really didn’t want it to end and I wouldn’t have minded being invited into even more of the villager’s homes, hearts, and minds.Reading this book felt like being cuddled in a big old comfy armchair; safe, secure, and blissfully knowing that no matter the trials and challenges the characters in the book encounter, all will be well in the end.
This is my favorite Maeve Binchy book that I've read to date. I've yet to find another person who feels the same way, so perhaps I'm the odd woman out, but I don't mind. I simply got immersed in the story and found it easy to relate to the characters especially Chris. I loved the idea that everyone thought what they knew what was going in the other characters lives, but it wasn't until you got to their respective chapters that you learned the truth....
This book, set in a small Irish country village, follows a group of school children, from childhood through to parenthood.
Their lives are entertwined, like many in small towns, but each of their stories hold secrets.
The book was set from the 50's and ended in the 70's, and gives a good picture of life at that time in rural Ireland.
The school that had seen generations of children walk through its doors, to carve their names on the giant beech it sat under, had stories to tell of its own, if it could only talk.
'The Copper Beech' is a series of interwoven character studies, which tell different parts of a story of a small town community in Ireland, in the middle and late twentieth century.
The school is being honoured with a visit from the Bishop, and we meet several characters from the town including some mischievous children.
There are then several sections, each written from the perspective of one of the people in the town.
What happens in Leo's family that makes her draw back from the rest of the community?It's very well written, with excellent characterisations.
The next day my husband had business up in Seattle, so after dropping my son off at work I sat down and started reading "just for a few minutes"...
Maeve had me at page one and I had the most delightful day in Ireland while sitting in my favorite chair (with moments of real life thrown in to pick my son up from work and to fix dinner).
As with all the books I have read by Ms Binchy, there is incredible sadness, but they end with a wonderful feeling of hope and happiness!
Bad things happened to good people, but they got past it.
I outgrew Maeve, but from time to time I pick one up, for a pleasant re=read.The Copper Beech is one of her ensemble cast stories.
It's a bit like reading interconnected short stories rather than a novel.
Her style and plots are predictable, stereotypes abound, and there's an underlying order to things that her characters seldom deviate from.
But most of her stories are set in the 1950s or earlier and so she gets away with it.

"Pod crvenom bukvom", M. Binchy; Svako toliko otkrijem neku knjigu Maeve Binchy koju nisam čitala, pa je tako bilo i sa ovom. I nema tu iznenađenja, znam da će mi se svidjeti jer volim kako ona piše.. Opise malih irskih gradića u okolici Dublina i njihovih žitelja.. Tako je i ovdje.. Irsko mjestašce Shancarrig i osam ljudi i njihovih priča koje se, naravno, poprilično međusobno isprepliću. Toplo, životno, "opipljivi" ljudi sa svojim vrlinama, manama i strahovima.. I svi se na ovaj i ili onaj način mire sa životom.. Lagana knjiga koja se čita za zanimanjem i užitkom. :)
A great all around story; I love Maeve Binchy anyway, so it's hard for me to find a book of hers I don't like.
I like the way she tells her stories; this one, like most, revolves almost entirely around different personalities, their secrets, actions, loves, hates, and how they all interact with each other.
The book spans almost 30 years, and you feel like you've been there all along as the characters grow and change.
Nothing earth shattering, nothing overly gripping, just a well told story of a small town, its schoolhouse, and the faces that have passed through.
I always enjoy the cozy stories from Maeve Binchy. This one was not my favourite~ I found some of the stories dragged on a little too long.
However, the mighty copper beech has witnessed various declarations of love, hope, and identity - all the youthful dreams of the children who once played beneath its sheltering branches.Although they live such vastly different lives, these eight dreamers can certainly agree on one thing about the bucolic and peaceful town of Shancarrig: life is dull; some might even say deadly dull.
And the community seems to prefer it that way.However, for some more passionate souls - such as Nessa Ryan - there must be more to life in Shancarrig than running the family hotel.
A huge copper beech tree sits in the school yard in Shancarrig and everyone has weitten their names in the tree through out the years.
From ryan's Hotel to Barna Woods, where the gypsies came each year, from Nellie Dunn's sweet shop to FatherGunn's church, the tenor of life in this small Irish village is outwardly placid and uneventful.
Nessa Ryan would say it was deadly dull.
But, behind the calm exterior, serenity fades into unexpected drama.
At the cottages,where the Dunnes live in poverty, the grand house of Leo Murphy, the Kellys near the school, Dr. Jim's on The Terrace...nothing is as it seems.
I picked up this book simply because its author was Irish--I'm into all things Irish these days. The author tells the stories, one at a time, of eight schoolchildren in a small Irish village who carve their initials on graduation day into the huge copper beech tree beside the school. The stories intertwine and build on each other. Some characters were likeable, others not, which I'm sure was the intent of the author, but it shows how you never know what life will bring.
I always want to know what happens next in a story, so we get a little of that here.Binchy divides up the book and focuses on certain characters in the village of Schancarrig.
First we have Maura, then Eddie, Nessa, and Leo. We also have another character who is not one that went to the school, Richard.
I did love how the village reprobate Foxy made good and how he was hell-bent on marrying Leo. I thought it was odd though that Binchy didn't switch Foxy in for Richard's story.
Good study of a small town.
I liked the way that the author broke down the novel according to the several characters who made the story what it was.
I think it symbolised for them the secrets that many of them kept, or rather, it served as a backdrop to the interwoven relationships in the story.I found it interesting that the school had been put up for sale in the end, and that so many of the main characters were willing to purchase it.However,I was very happy about the unanimous agreement about it in the end.
I have been reading Maeve Binchy books since I was a teenager and for as long as I can remember, Tara Road has always been my favourite.
Well today that all changed when I finished "The Copper Beech." My new favourite Binchy book.
The Copper Beech is an incredible compilation of short stories about the people living in the small town of Shancarrig.
The stories describe their lives, hopes, feelings, secrets, fears and loves.
I devoured this book and wanted to know more about my favourite characters.
And that is why I love Maeve Binchy so much.
An unusual narrative taking the reader from the beginning of the story, with the people involved being mostly children, through several formative years of their lives separately, adding extra details like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle until finally you realise the bigger picture.
The only thing this book lost a star for was that the ending, where the characters' story joins back into each other's and we find out what they are doing as successful (or not) adults.
I had been quite moved by the happiness, sadness, and by the determination of the characters' main stories, but I guess I hoped for a happy ending all round!Maybe I should stop being a big baby and change it to five stars...
Not bad but I didn't enjoy it as much as I did with the other ones I have read from this author.
A chronicle of the intersecting lives of a small Irish town, Maeve Binchy's Copper Beech presents the everyday sorrows and joys of individuals and the supportive power of community.
While the book is more a loose assortment of narrative strands than a tightly-plotted novel, each individual character maintains the reader's attention.
In the book, Dr. Jims Blake reflects that "There was a human story everywhere he turned...in the small houses and in the big ones," and this idea best characterizes Binchy's storytelling.
Whether the characters are major or minor, each of them has a unique and very human backstory that transports readers to the little town of Shancarrig.
I have read a few of Maeve Binchy's books and this one is the best so far. It centres around a small community and a school with a beech tree. Like many of her books it is not really a story as such, but more a collection of tales told from the perspective of different characters and all the tales intertwine. Each story brings an extra part to the tale so you get a more complete picture of what is happening in the town.
I enjoyed the stories of the various children growing up in the small Irish village and seeing how their lives intertwined. It was not one of my favorite Maive Binchy books but if you enjoy Binchy's writing you will enjoy this book.
I have read a short story book of Binchy before that was very nice and I feel Binchy somehow transferred her strength in writing short stories into this novel, by describing the lives of several people in one village in several stories that can be read on their own, but add to one another when read together. I dont know how she does it, but she can describe a whole life of a person in a few pages in such a way that I can sympathize with the character, be absorbed and need some time to come back
I have read a short story book of Binchy before that was very nice and I feel Binchy somehow transferred her strength in writing short stories into this novel, by describing the lives of several people in one village in several stories that can be read on their own, but add to one another when read together.
It is quite a warm hearted book I think, with many lovely characters and it is interesting to read how people deal with things differently and how they evolve and are shaped by circumstances.
None are perfect, but they all are important in their little ways.
At the same time she shows how the children themselves try to be the 'perfect child' their parent 'wanted' and at the same time fall short.
He was a playboy character who had his way with women, until he met Nessa and Gloria.
Gloria turned him into a loyal partner who wanted to settle down, but his love for her led him to do the right thing in letting her go.
From Nessa's story we see only his playboy ways.
Initially, The Copper Beech seemed like a collection of silly vignettes about random people in a small Irish village, but then the characters began to intersect and the story became more interesting .
The chapters became a mosaic describing the entire town.That town is Shancarrig, a small Irish village in the 1950s.
The Copper Beech tells the stories of some of those children and what became of them.
Each chapter focuses on a different character.While the writing is pleasant and comforting, there was no compelling plot.
It felt like I was moseying through the town hearing stories shared by the village gossip.
The characters and setting were very typical Binchy.
As with The Silver Wedding, each chapter was about one character, and I found some of their individual stories interesting, or at least with the potential to be interesting had they been developed and not overshadowed by the general "how the years pass by in a small Irish town" plot.
Clearly that's one of Binchy's favorite plots, and she did it pretty well in Firefly Summer.
However, I don't think she can pull that plot off successfully without fully developed characters for the reader to relate to and care about.
Never judge a book club member by her cover. There was this lady in my former book group whom I didn't know and when she chose this book I just knew she'd picked it up at the check-out line at Albertson's. Wrong. Maeve Binchy is a good storyteller and her characters are as real as their lives are not boring.
Maeve Binchy's tales are so captivating. Her descriptions are thorough. She begins with the tree in the school yard and ends there, too. I listened to this while walking and was transported to Ireland.
Not my cup of tea. Too many characters to keep track of. I realize Maeve Binchy is a wonderful writer, I simply didn't enjoy the novel as much as I thought I would. The problem is no doubt with me, not Binchy.
One of Maeve Binchy's best books so far.
