https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62333.Tirano_Banderas
Hell!Tyrant Banderas is a quick electric novella about three days in the life of a nameless dictatorship in Latin America.
It has only a little time for soulful rumination, and that's for the prisoners awaiting their decapitations.
This is a quick, blazing, horrorshow of a book, which paints with broad mocking strokes.The tyrant Banderas and his mass of hangers-on are shown in caricature.
There is an uprising on the Day of the Dead, the book moves from the comic to the grotesque with no room for breath.
It was worth my time, though now I want to read it in the original.

Aquí:Tirano Banderas
All NYRB covers are equal, but some are more equal than others.(Images under spoiler tag)(view spoiler)[Original cover art to NYRB's forthcoming edition of Tyrant Banderas:[Image: Detail from painting (title and artist unknown) of two colorful, snarling dogs.
A bright neon pink box containing the title and author's name is superimposed over the painting.]Updated (and hopefully final) cover art:[Image: Detail from the painting "Exchange of Devouring" by artist Yasumasa Morimura, featuring a nude man in shadow clutching a bloody, headless doll-sized human body.
A yellow box containing the title and author's name is superimposed over the man's chest.] (hide spoiler)]Holy shit, NYRB.
Dejaremos a un lado el manido comentario de Novela Inaugural del Tirano (nota 2): Valle-Inclán, con un lenguaje que puede llegar a recordar al barroquismo caribeño de Lezama Lima o Carpentier (nota 3), pero con una memorable economía de recursos que lo sitúa directamente en el extremo contrario, nos mete de lleno –y de golpe− en una historia atemporal para todos los tiempos, esto es, la del patetismo que conlleva la acumulación del poder, la hipocresía de sus aduladores y la de aquellos que no quieren sino ejercerlo también, sin olvidar el sufrimiento de las víctimas, que son siempre las mismas.
This is a relatively short novel by Spanish author Valle-Inclan written in 1929 about a fictional dictator in a fictional South American country – possibly representing Mexico during the revolution in 1910 as the author had visited there.
The narrative is somewhat non-linear but certainly a jumble of characters and events over I understand 3 days.Tyrant Banderas is a brutal dictator imposing his will by fear and killing, he has numerous hangers-on; and then there’s the revolution trying to emancipate the indigenous people headed by Roque Cepada ultimately trapping the Tyrant in his citadel.
Pero en el país y en la época que le tocó vivir, pasó de ser en vida un escritor extravagante y excéntrico al que no había que hacer mucho caso, a ser un escritor trasnochadísimo a quien guardar en los anaqueles más polvorientos de la historia de la literatura tras su muerte.Tirano Banderas tiene una reputación dudosa como novela.
This book is both a modernist and political masterpiece.
Liberators cum dictators, hypocrisy from the West over human rights and valuable natural resources, the bloated and brutal entourage of leaders that often develop their own political motion and can't be stopped.
From whore house hypnotism to diplomatic flowery doublespeak to death of child by being eaten by pigs you really won't read many books like this.
But if you are interested in the history of world literature and, like me, had never heard of Ramon del Valle-Inclan or this book, you should really check it out.
De un lenguaje soberbio pero limitado en cuanto a la comprensión de América. En esto último Valle-Inclán no logra entender el alma americana.
This book is wild. I bet its really good in the original Spanish
También Génesis, primer libro del Tanaj y el Antiguo Testamento, y el Evangelio, es decir, los primeros cuatro libros del Nuevo Testamento.* Paráfrasis de la frase "Ave, Caesar, morituri te salutant" de Vidas de los doce césares de Suetonio (Roma, 121).* Las Evasiones Célebres de Frédéric Bernard (Francia, 1869).* Revista El Sendero Teosófico de la Sociedad Teosófica Norteamericana (EEUU, 1911-?).* Poema 1 ("Yo soy aquel que ayer no más decía") de Cantos de vida y esperanza de Rubén Darío (Nicaragua, 1905) (alusión).* Joseph Balsamo de Alexandre/Alejandro Dumas (Francia, 1853).* Mención al personaje de Santos Vega, gaucho y payador legendario cuya primera mención registrada está en el poema "A Santos Vega, payador argentino" de Bartolomé Mitre (Argentina, 1838).* Mención al personaje de Merlín, conocida por el ciclo artúrico y cuya primera mención registrada está en Historia Regum Britanniae de Geoffrey de Monmouth/Godofredo de Monmouth (Gales, 1136).* Mención a los escritores Cicerón (Roma, s.
Pardon the crudeness of comparing a 1926 novel by a Spanish master to a Quentin Tarantino film, but the story totally has a similar sinister-absurd vibe to it.
(I like early Tarantino, so sue me.) Also take a look at the cover of this NYRB version—what a powerful and disturbing picture, perfect for the book.
Aside from its ability to choose great stories to dig up and re-publish, the NYRB Classics imprint never lets you down in terms of the covers and feel of its books, which is why I feel the need to own each one that I read.
Chilling, nightmarish, and dense. Valle-Inclan creates sinister world riddled with gore and occult imagery to tell the story of the overthrow of Kid Santos, the Tyrant Banderas. The structure of the book parallels Dante's Divine Comedy, and numerous references are made to other classical fictions and philosophical treatises throughout the narrative. While the story doesn't take place in any specific country, there's more than enough parallels in here to assume it's Mexico. Honestly. I'm blown away. Do yourself a favor: just pick up the goddamn book and read it.
En esta historia, nos encontramos con dos polos puestos, por una parte tenemos a Tirano Banderas y su gobierno corrupto lleno de aduladores, vividores y alcohólicos como el Coronelito de Gándara, que busca mantener el lema “orden y progreso” sin importar las consecuencias y oposición la forma el Cuerpo Diplomático Revolucionario, “los científicos”, encabezado por don Roque Cepeda y Filomeno Cuevas y a los que don Santos Banderas busca expulsar de su territorio porque representan un peligro para su dictadura, debido al interés de los intelectuales por regresar las tierras que le corresponden a las clases bajas, terminar con la corrupción, la denigración, la desigualdad y la crueldad.

A sort of dark satire on the South American dictator and the foreign people who seek to influence them for their own betterment, this novel had some sections that were quite amusing, and others that were hideously dark and horrifying.
Most of the characters are more or less cartoonish representations of their role, especially Banderas himself, and The Baron of Benicarles, who is so over-the-top and typical of a certain era that I wonder where this trope came from.
Scarfaced Zac, in particular, has a scene that was quite vivid in my mind, and which is soundly disturbing.In any case, a quick read, and substantive enough to be worth it.
I gave it two stars, because although I didn't really like it, it wasn't a bad book. I didn't like the way it was written - very dialogue driven, showing snippets of people and situations, a little hard to follow at times. I've read books written in a similar way before, and I didn't like them either. I did get some good recommendations for other books from the introduction, though, and so it wasn't a total waste.
Buena novela, Valle-Inclán con su genio nos regala una interesante sátira llena de personajes esperpénticos y un lenguaje por momentos retorcido, además de inventar el genero de "novela del dictador" precediendo a autores como Miguel Ángel Asturias o García Márquez en varios años.Clásico recomendable.
Olin hindamisel pikalt 2/3 vahel. Tegu ei ole kindlasti halva raamatuga, ent kuna Mehhiku ja kogu Ladina-Ameerika kultuur ning poliitiline olukord (eriti veel eelmise sajandi alguses) jääb minu jaoks veidi kaugeks, on keeruline samastuda. Kuigi üldjuhul kipub olema ikka nii, et raamat on parem kui film, siis antud juhul usun, et kui Tarantino otsustaks selle põhjal mõne linateose vändata, oleks see igati vaatamist väärt. Võib-olla jäidki minu jaoks puudu Tarantinolik visuaal ning tavapäraselt suurepärane soundtrack.
3.5!Demasiado para mi corazón D:

El modelo patrón de lo que se daría en llamar “novela de dictador” que tanta importancia ha tendido en autores sudamericanos. Su intrincado lenguaje hace que sea una novela difícil y poco comprendida. Aunque el lenguaje aporta a la atmósfera pedante de la novela su uso es totalmente desproporcionado. La trama acerca de los efectos de la tiranía sobre el pueblo, enemigos y aliados es ligeramente interesante.
KOBOBOOKSReviewed by The Complete Review, The Guardian (26 Jan 2013)
un español complicado
Glorioso y cruel.
No uno sino todos los tiranos de América retratados en Tirano Banderas; fascinante, aunque a difícil de advertir el propósito del autor...
Me gustó mucho el estilo de Valle-Inclán, imágenes y ritmos muy cambiantes, quisiera aprender más sobre el esperpento... pero no me gustó la novela en sí.
Del Valle-Inclan lost his arm in a fight with a critic -- much to be admired in that.
The spanish used was really complicated, even for a native speaker. The author likes to combine expression from several regions, creating a unique language
Not really sure what to think about this book. The description on the jacket and quote from Diego Rivera about the book did not live up to what I actually read in the book.
