https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27526.Desecration
How can they be anti-Semitic and still have Jews be the most important protagonists in the story?
Secondly, they have also been accused of being male chauvinists, in part because of Hattie's character.
Meanwhile, Chloe is still the brains behind the co-op.What I like about the Left Behind series is that it makes the book of Revelation easier to understand.
Left Behind, even if it isn't the best interpretation of Scripture (and I know it's not), makes it easier to understand.
They clearly put a lot of thought behind his character.What I think could be improved is the fluff surrounding the main events of the story.
The series is getting pretty interesting now as the AntiChrist is now indwelled with Satan himself and running rampant but God is also flexing his muscles a little bit in an effort to remind Nicolae who's boss. Great to see the Christians still remaining faithful and their numbers growing. The whole scene in and around the temple was pretty interesting.
Definitely think this is one of the most action filled book in the series.
Possibly the best one so far.The pace continues to build in this one. You can feel things headed to the climax of Christ's return.There are some heartbreaking character deaths - not made easier by knowing they're in Heaven.Some characters step up & start to take charge in a cool way (although Chloe's still quite annoying)The Antichrist gets more outrageous & desperate in his attempts to fight God - & God just looks down & smiles. He's in control in these series - as He is in our own lives!

The 9th book in the Left Behind Series. Very intense and hard to let go at times. A very easy read and will put a end to any reading slumps you might be having. ProsIntenseClift hangersSuspenseCharacter/plot interactions Easy to readConsSlow at times
Starting this review is well, easy to say the least.
I started reading the first book in this wonderful series just as soon as I heard about them.
Being from a christian home life growing up and as well as my husband and family this was a no brainier.
I am going to do one review including the whole series.
From the first page of the first book to the last page in the last book, I was not able to put these books down.
This series, although some would call fictional, I believe are very close to what will:To read more of my review: https://breathoflifebookreviews.blogs...
Shocked that it took 9 books before people actually started fighting back against this man.
I am pretty sure it was this novel and the next one that made me stop reading this series the first time around, so I never "finished it" [even though I "already knew" how it was going to end - the Antichrist defeated and the Tribulation Saints reunited with their loved ones in Heaven after Jesus returned].
I am going to stop trying to explain it; I just do not think the Antichrist would act or behave how he is presented in the book [well, not every time he is presented in the book].
(hide spoiler)]I thought the authors did a good job describing somethings (view spoiler)[like what would happen if the seas turned to blood.
He had one small scene in the entire book devoted to Antichrist riding a pig into the temple, splashing a little pig blood on the temple and then becoming bored with his own shenanigans and moving on to something else.??Any good author knows the way to keep a reader reading is by constantly increasing the conflict; keeping the reader wanting more, wanting to know if his hero will beat the odds and make it to his finish line.
When I found out Jenkins had previously been on the New York Times Bestseller list before coming to this series, I mourned the intelligence and the taste of the reading public; that anyone would put this author there is a sad commentary on the complete lack of taste and intelligence of most readers of Christian literature out there today.
Book nine of the Left Behind series was a good one.
I recommend this book, but after you have read the rest of the series.
I did enjoy the book with its twists and turns throughout, and significant events that will effect the rest of the series.One of the aspects I liked about this book is that Chaim is granted a larger role in the series.
This hopefully means that the next few books in the series will be good ones.
I think This book has its good parts and bad, but I recommend it.
Chang Wong is becoming a valuable asset to the work of the Tribulation Force.
Yet more Tribulation members perish as new members are introduced.
Chaim and Buck go to battle for the Lord as unbelievers are plagued by festering wounds in an attempt to bring more away from Satan's hold over them.
Chloe ventures out and becomes more involved bringing more members to the effort.
Will it cause more danger to Tribulation Force members?Another explosive addition to the series!
As the ones before it this one also challenges my faith and I was highly entertained.
I would highly recommend this series to others especially for the times in which we live.
The bad writing of the series is starting to get annoying.
All of the "bad guy" characters in Nicolie's inner circle sound the same.
They also all sound like children, or are being written by children.
He has no special skill set that aids the Tribulation Force, but he is always sent on these special missions, apparently just so the writer can have someone at the scene to report on it.
The writer is also about as subtle as a brick and telegraphs everything that is coming.
I'll finish the series but I think I'm done actually enjoying it.
These books are great, except for the fact that Carpathia is portrayed as an immature sociopath. While I admire the dedication with which this author incorporates actual scripture, I do not believe that an entity as ancient and malevolently genius as "the Devil" could possibly act so childishly or contradictorily to his own doctrine within a public setting. The best, and only, argument that I can see for such behavior from such an ancient Satanic character would be his impatience being finally released.
I began this book in audio form and finished it in print. If you are going to read this one (or possibly any of the series), I suggest you read it yourself, rather than listening. I did NOT like the narration at all. The voices are all wrong, as far as I'm concerned, and I would have just given up if I couldn't switch to the print version. I've read (in print or ebook) the earlier books in the series and have a good feel for the characters, I believe. These voices are NOT theirs.
This series is interesting as fiction goes, but they should not be taken as a literal interpretation of the Bible or prophesied events.
I truly enjoyed this book. I love the series, the endings always make u want to run to grab the next one.
This guy is a masochist I think that’s the right word I never thought of the antichrist is being messages but it makes sense in this fictional account.
It’s interesting there are some verses from the Bible that I know relate to in times or that’s what we’re tired but I never thought of them I always thought they were more inclusive they could be I just have never seen them in that context though I’ve read them in that context.
It is wonderful to see God's plan working out through the end times although it is frightening to see people resolutely choosing what they have to know by this point is evil.
He does and God saves His Chosen People by providing supernatural escape and refuge for them.
On the one hand, you don't want to mess with the antichrist, but on the other hand you REALLY don't want to mess with God. Because Satan's end is foretold and sure.
The moment with Michael the archangel is definitely one of my favorites of the whole book.
So much destruction and heartache though with the loss of Hattie, then David, then the teenagers Chloe found.
She still has me so confused!But now knowing that I have to wait to get my hands on the rest of the books until at least after the holidays is going to be torture!
And to have such an ending at such a crucial moment will keep me wondering the whole time I wait.
He a very kind man so I can't imagine him taking on the evil of Carpathia.This book did not disappoint!
Very little happens in the first half of Desecration however the latter half ups the tempo somewhat and offers some genuine surprises.
This entry in the series is rather heavy handed with it's gospel, at times preaching the Word for pages at a time where it could have easily been more succinct.
The authors could have upscaled the action too, as a few of the scenarios presented could have been more exciting; more narrative allocated to them.
It's a fair assumption that it is a deliberate effort to not glorify the warfare and the horror within this series.
An essential book in the series which ends with a real cliffhanger.
I loved this book, but then again I love most of the Left Behind books.
There are a couple of sad parts, but I won't spoil.
Let me just say that a Trib Force member dies, killed by the GC.
Other than that the book was great!
It introduced some new believers such as Hannah Palemoon.
It also is when Chaim Rosenzweig led the Jewish believers to Petra.
Also Tsion Ben-Judah (along with Rayford Steele and Abdullah Smith) comes just as two warheads are dropped on more than a million believers.
they can only hope and pray that God will protect them from the bombs.
A sacred temple defiled. Evil works to destroy good people. More Tribulation Force members captured or killed. A desperate mission to save TF member from torture/death. Evil Nicolae Carpathia to make his rule iron-clad. Now he is working to kill all the Jews and TF members and people who he thinks are traitors, which is pretty much everyone. On to book 10!
The authors killed off a character that I thought should not have been killed off, other than that it was a good book. The end was a total cliff hangar, although the reader would know the outcome, we want the details!! So I started reading book 10 in the middle of the night !!! Thank Goodness for Kindle and Amazon !!
Jenkins has woven the two bowl judgments (boils and blood) skillfully to the drama of the characters of the series. This 9th book of the Left Behind series brought me to tears through the deaths of several believers, and amazement and praise as the power of God is displayed. No question why this is the best-selling novel in the world in 2001.
I agree with a lot of the other reviews. I appreciate this series for what it is as it has opened my eyes and challenged me in a thought provoking way. You start hating Nicholae (anti-Christ) and get scared listening to his rantings. But the book leaves you with hope and a desire for the next one in the series.
I continue to listen to the audio books as I travel for work. The drama continues as the Tribulation Force continues to fight against the forces of evil that have been unleashed during the Tribulation period. This is a fictional story that engages the reader in what it might be like during the final days. These books will make you think!
This book was so boring. The only reason I am still reading this series is that I want to know who lives and dies. This series should have ended already and it just keeps dragging on.
This book drug out for me a bit in the middle but the story line picked up again toward the end and I'm anxious again to move to book 10.
absolutely amazing
