https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/39342821-heroes-gods-and-monsters-of-the-greek-myths
The final stories of Atalanta, King Midas, and Pygmalion teaches the universal themes of love and greed which still abound in modern society.While this is not as sophisticated as Edith Hamilton's "Mythology" or as academic as other texts, this one adapts the Greek tales in a very reader-friendly way.
The long list of vocabulary written in the back is quite accessible to the first time reader of Greek mythology plus shows the clear link between the Greeks and modern civilization.Book Details: Title Heroes, Gods and Monsters of the Greek Myth Author Bernard EvslinReviewed By Purplycookie
This is an interesting book about Greek myths, gods, goddesses, demigods who become heroes, and deadly monsters such as the Minotaur and Medusa.
One myth tells the story of Zeus’s father, Cronos, who killed his own father Uranus in order to take his throne.
There is also the story of the heroic demigod Perseus, who beheaded the Medusa in order to kill the evil King Polydectes of Sephiros.I really enjoyed reading this book and learning more about Greek mythology.
The most interesting thing I learned from the book, is how some of the events/characters became part of the English language: One example is the story of Echo, a nymph who distracts Hera so she wouldn’t catch Zeus with other maidens.
cool
This book is really interesting if you enjoy Greek myths. I really like how the author categorizes each section: Gods, Nature Myths, etc. The only con to this book is the layout of the words. They are very close together and not spaced out well, so it's slightly more "annoying" to read and it doesn't make you want to read the book.
Had to read this for school and I thought that it was pretty good. I love Greek mythology so there's a plus. Not terrible but not great. The writing was a little strange but I liked how quick the chapters were. My favorite stories were about Aphrodite.
For anyone wanting an introductory level account of some of the most well known Greek myths, this book should suffice.
It provides brief overviews of many of the main gods of the pantheon as well as some nature myths and more detailed accounts of the demi-gods.
Uranus inexplicably becomes Oranos.I know it goes beyond the scope of what this book is trying to do, but it would be nice if Evslin would explain the importance of these myths beyond simply stating they had a profound effect on him as a child.
Interesting, insomuch as I happen to be interested in Greek mythology. The tales are hyper short & are easy to understand. (Nice when you're a younger reader or someone who's just now being introduced to Greek mythology.) No comparison between the Greek Gods & the Roman Gods (who were "borrowed" from the Greeks). Very light on the information. I didn't feel like I had to think hard & I didn't learn anything new, unfortunately.That said, I would recommend this to those starting out in their Greek mythology.
This one is honestly also a five out of five! With Greek Gods, myths and why things the way they are, and the heroes from these mighty tales. I think this one is also very, very, VERY well written.To be completely truthful; I didnt TECHNICALLY read this. I listened to a voice audio of the VA Todd Haberkorn reading it. It was because I couldnt get the books. But sometimes ignoring the voice and focusing on the story. I loved it! There is a lot I know about Greek Mythology. I just learned more, in
With Greek Gods, myths and why things the way they are, and the heroes from these mighty tales.
I think this one is also very, very, VERY well written.To be completely truthful; I didn´t TECHNICALLY read this.
I listened to a voice audio of the VA Todd Haberkorn reading it.
There is a lot I know about Greek Mythology.
I just learned more, in an interesting way.So to those who haven´t really read mythology...
This one is a really good one to start off reading.
Also the Percy Jackson guide to Greek Mythology (BOTH OF ´EM.
SOO GOOD!)
Not very well written but I did enjoy the stories that were told in the book.
Personal responseOne of my favorite stories in the book was Hephaestus, the Smith God the god who cast off a cliff, for being too ugly ,but was taken back when his gift as a smith was known to Olympus.
As I read each story the ideas the greeks lived by became more clear.Plot The plot of the book is a series of old greek myths that taught morals and how things came to be.
Impact of settingThe setting affected the story very little as it was a series of greek myths and it never defined a specific place.
If only I spoke and read Greek, but Bernard Evslin does/did.
He did not originally set out to translate or tell any of these stories.
He was only following in the classically trained footsteps of his uncle, and he fell in love with Greek stories along the way.
This edition of the myths FELT real to me.
There are so many Greek Heroes/Gods/Monsters books out there, and most of them feel stilted or overly sanitized.
This one told it like it is without being overly graphic.
Bravo, Mr. Evslin, and thank you for translating this in your words.
As a writer, I’ve always had a soft spot for mythology, especially Greek mythology.
These are the bones of many stories, the roots from which modern tales spring and the well from which many writers draw their inspiration.Bernard Evslin tells the stories of gods, goddesses, heroes and monsters in a swift, straight to the point manner.
Each one of the short stories could have been spun into a novel of it’s own, but the purpose here was clearly to give the reader a taste and basic understanding of some of Greek mythology’s most famous characters and adventures.
And Bernard Evslin has succeeded marvelously.
Ridiculously over simplified but a good introduction to Greek mythology if you know nothing about it
Obnoxious oversimplifications but it fits in your back pocket and is succinct enough to sneak in a story in a waiting room or on your lunch break.
I found this extremely entertaining. A wonderful book to wind down with at bedtime.
A great compilation of classic Greek myths! Some of them are very familiar, others not so much - but all were fun to listen to via the audiobook. A fun, quick book.
even darker and grittier than I remember. Now I'm ready to reread all the Percy Jackson books (!!)
We have known the Greek Gods, the demigods and the heroes through various re tellings in fiction and movies that try to capture their essence in terms of powers and conquests.
One book might deal with a few Gods and demigods at most at one time and even then if its a retelling lot of changes occur in the story.
I had always wanted a book that could be read as Greek Mythology 101.
Bernard Evslin’s book does just that.Every God, demigod, hero worth mentioning is talked about in a lucid style tracing the origin, their powers and their claims to fame in a very matter of fact manner.
I enjoyed the book being quick and simple because I am very busy and I do not have time to read about character development.
I also enjoyed that the book had lots of simplified Greek myths in it and not just one long myth.
I liked this because full length Greek myths are very long and confusing and take a very long time to read and even longer to fully understand.
Bernard Evelin put lots of simplified Greek myths in the book so it would be easier to understand, fast to read, and give a wide verity of Greek myths.
Reading Plato, I kept coming across references to Greek mythology that I didn't understand, so I decided to learn a bit about ancient Greece before continuing on to Aristotle.
Reading through these stories now that I'm older was fascinating.
Beyond that, however, I was fascinated by the intricacy of these old myths and the fundamental ideas of humanity that they contend with.
Moreover, the author presented them in a way that was easy to read without feeling like I was reading a children's book.
If you're looking for an easy collection of Greek mythology, I'd highly recommend this book.
While informational if you only have a slight amount of understanding when it comes to Greek mythology, it's a little bit simple in terms of the stories.
Granted, these are meant to be the author's translations, but they leave a lot out regarding the gods.
Heck, they only mention Ares once, in one sentence, in the entire book and he's part of the main pantheon.
Clearly this author has a preference for Apollo, seeing as he covers more Apollo related stories than anything.
But if you want a more in depth understanding of a particular god or goddess, this is not the book for you.

I enjoyed reading the background stories on the various Greek gods. I would hate to try to draw a family tree, what with all the interbreeding with mortals. I think some of the male gods may have had hundreds of progeny. The stories were well told and kept my interest although they weren't as fanciful as some novels. All in all it was a nice refresher of the gods that I had learned about in school many years ago.
Having read all of the Percy Jackson books I wanted to learn more about Greek Mythology. This book got great reviews so I thought that I would give it a try. It did not disappoint. This book is for all ages. It tells the story of each God, Muse, Demi-God etc. in a way that you will remember way beyond the normal two week retention of so many facts. If you or your child is interested in Greek Mythology I highly recommend this book.
Good for (mature) children and teens, or adults who want a story-like telling of some of the more popular myths. I found it took too many liberties with the myths for the sake of narrative, and in many cases only presented one of the many stories regarding the specific myth, but for people who want a more detailed introduction to the myths and have no interest in the academics of it, it's a good place to start.
I liked the fact that despite all the Greek myths I've read over the years (some of them more than once), this book still had myths I'd never read before and even had a fresh look on myths I'd already been familiar with. This is why I love mythology in general; there's always something new to learn no matter how well you think you already know it.
A spot of good fun for those, like me, that like this kind of thing. Nothing exceptional about the prose but then on the other hand nothing jarring about the prose that would get in the way of the stories.
Some were new, some were familiar, some were boring, some were interesting. My favourite part was learning about the origins of stories or even some common words that we still use today like “panic” and “cereal”. Why crows are black and why nothing grows in winter.It was good listening overall, although I am not sure how much I will retain. It was more or less: in one ear and out the other.
This is a pretty good book that goes over the Greek myths in a creative and entertaining way. For someone like me who already knows all these myths it doesn't introduce anything new or any of the lesser heroes.
A good overview of major figures in Greek Mythology. My one critique is that it could have been more detailed. I liked the last third of the book, where long stories were actually told, but the first two-thirds were pretty dry and surface level.
