https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/182134.Company_Commander
Macdonald concentrates on the realities for a green junior officer in command of an infantry company, whilst coping with sleeplessness, hunger, dirt, stress, and danger.Apparently it is still required reading at West Point.
It should also be required reading for any politician thinking of sending men & women to war.Originally published in 1947 and I’m again glad that Endeavour Press reprinted this classic in this digital edition.
"An infantry regiment with on-paper strength of a little more than 3,000 might lose over twice that many in less than a year of combat." The author of the introduction suggests that "such casualty rates played havoc with the concept of 'Band of Brothers' .
"It seemed that since we were now in a 'quiet' position that every officer in the division with the rank of major or above wanted to inspect the company area.
In the early days of his time on the line, he struggles to gain the respect of the men he commands and worries about how he will react to war.
His unit spends time on the Siegfried Line, and participates in the Battle of the Bulge.
The book drew me in from its preface, when the author says: “The characters in my story are not fictional, and any similarity between them and persons living or dead is intentional, and some of them are dead.” The ending, with Mac’s unit liberating areas of Czechoslovakia and receiving an enormously warm welcome from the people, was touching.
Supurb memoir of a Company Commander who joins his unit as a replacement in the fall of 1944.
He earns a Silver Star for holding back the German advance at the southern edge of the "Bulge" longer than anyone thought possible, then drives through to meet the Russians on the Elbe.
Like anyone, especially a replacement Captain, he's terrified he won't perform in battle; that he won't earn the respect of his men.
All is eclipsed by the responsibilities of a Company Commander--and, facing daily barrages from German 88mm guns, I can't say I blame him.
At the time I had never read a first person account of the war.
It is a good read, but doesn't seem to be quite on the level with other books like With The Old Breed, To Hell and Back and If You Survive, all of which I have continued to return to over the years.
This book certainly deserves the good feelings I recalled from my youth.
This one is a close second followed by George Wilson's "If You Survive" and Murphy's "To Hell And Back." I recommend this book highly.
The most dangerous job in combat is that of a junior officer leading infantry. MacDonald not only survived, he excelled. His "Company Commander" is a great first-hand account of World War II in western Europe.
In 2013 I read it for the third time in about a decade and each reading has been well worth it. Rightfully designated a classic of combat memoirs, especially of junior officers.
Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II by Charles B.
I highly recommend Company Commander: The Classic Infantry Memoir of World War II by Charles B.
The book gives us template for writing a personal military memoir.It is by far the finest memoir of any junior officer in World War II.
He takes us from the Siegfried Line in the Ardennes, through the Battle of the Bulge, and to the end of the war in the Czechoslovakia.This book is a must-read for all army officers who seek to command at company-level and it is informative for military historians as well.
Mr. MacDonald was the author of seven historical non-fiction books about World War II.
This book is the story of his command of two infantry companies during the last year of the European campaign during World War II.
This non-fiction history book tells the story of Captain Charles MacDonald and his command of companies G and I of the 23rd Infantry, 2nd Division, US Army.
The book begins in October 1944 when MacDonald, then only 20 and already a Captain, is given command of I company.
The story follows MacDonald as he leads his men against the Germans during the final days of World War II.
What I enjoyed most was the frankness in the story.
His main concern is being a newly minted Captain, will the battle-weary veterans accept him into their confidence?
His unit is caught up in the Battle of the Bulge were his group is part of the hastily assembled force that thwarts the efforts of Deitrick’s Sixth Panzer Army from breathing through.
The second part of the story follows Patton’s Third Army drive into Germany.
Some might not enjoy the nonchalance of the treatment of German prisoners or lack thereof.
A great addition to any WWII library.Five Stars
I had to read this book for my university's American History class.
Do not read this book unless you are in the military, or are really, really interested in it.This is in no way a "literary" kind of book.
What I mean by that is this book reads more like a painfully detailed itinerary.
On the rare occasion that MacDonald breached emotion, it was a fleeting, surface kind of emotion.
The only time I really felt anything for him or any of the others was the final 3 or 4 pages--not enough to make up for the previous 270 bland ones.I’ve read other war books.
A live personal history of a U.S.Army Captain who was a Company Commander during World War II.
It precisely names locations, cities, battles, men and units.
You can get a book of the maps of Europe and follow by city and country and these units and men struggle with the fears of war across France, Belgium.
the Ardennes in the Battle of the Bulge, across Germany until the end of the war, the personal struggles when they come to the realization that the war is over.
The author Captain Charles B.
Another amazing account of a WWII soldier. As the title notes the book follows a "company commander" through his everday experiences. I go into any first-person account book with caution, because frankly, even toughened vets can embelish a bit. MacDonald comes off as so genuine however, with what seem to be gleeming, honest accounts of being a replacement officer amoungst experienced men. He's detailed with the what's and how's, from the direction they headed to the terain and equipment, details I love.
A story of brave individuals.I find that this book has a level of reality not found in so many others. Those that seek to describe the war at the "strategic" level miss the most fundamental issue which is that it was in fact the effort of individuals that allowed the allies to win and to provide the opportunity of freedom.
An excellent insight into the determination and courage of the common dog soldier in Germany.I thoroughly enjoyed the book and it's insights to the European war. My only complaint was the lack of maps. I had to Google maps while reading, because no one knew where these small towns and cities were in Europe.
Great work Excellent description of the incredible job by young soldiers who fought our nation' wars yesterday and today. A real tribute to all who served in our great nation' military.
Eye openingSuch a unique view on a truly remarkable time. If you have any interest in history this is a must read.
Good book. Well worth the effort to track it down.
Book was OK. Not as good as "With the Old Breed" which is a much better Military classic.
A Five Star, Must Read Account of Combat Curing the Second World War!!!"Company Commander" is the personal memoir of 20 year old Captain Charles MacDonald's wartime experiences while serving as Commander Officer (CO) of I and latter G Company, 23rd Infantry Regiment, 2nd Division, US Army during the final year of World War Two (WW 2).
This book is unlike any other combat account I have read, because the author leaves out all background information about himself prior to reporting for duty as CO of I Company.
Charles Macdonald's book is a classic of frontline memoirs, and deservedly so.Sitting on an "average" Company Commander's shoulder as he processes the greatest war man has ever known, is an amazing vantage point to understand the war.
Macdonald is a wry and clear witness to the vagaries or war.The simplicity of the prose and the clarity of the passages make this a good book for the junior reader who is ready to handle small unit command and concerns.
What is unique about the book is that it's World War II from the lowest level.
Just the officers and men that have to implement those strategies with tactics on the ground.
Another thing I liked was learning some of the details of how the men got through the war.
It covers things like going on the attack while your platoon leader is on leave, officer's getting a liquor allotment and the process of evacuating casualties and then returning them to the front.
Outstanding, ranks up at the top of European theater personal memoirs with Robert Kauffman's The Replacement for honesty and attention to detail, this is very hard to match.
Book-ending the story arc are the Ardennes before the storm and the collapse in The Sudetenland.
Between these are descriptions of everything from being evacuated after being wounded, to little company G almost accepting Leipzig's surrender in a scene from a bad movie.
Much explanation of company level operations which are clear enough for most to follow easily.
The book came with something I have never seen, a separate map packet (addressing a pet peeve of mine) these were very good.
When he took command of his first rifle company, he was at a relatively "quiet" sector of the west front during a comparatively "quiet" time.
After healing and returning to the front to command a new company, it was the closing month of the WW2 in Europe.I also feel that the author is somewhat detached to his officers and soldiers.
That's understandable since he was just a replacement company commander for the two companies under him.
He was afraid of his own failure but somehow kept a distance to men he commanded.
Do not miss MacDonald's memoirMy father fought with the 2nd Infantry from the Normandy hedgerows through France. On the first night of the Battle of the Bulge his heavy machine gun crew were overrun by a German tank detachment that parked for the night almost on top of the crew. Morning brought their discovery and capture. To the end of his life my father was proud that the veterans of the 2nd were not penetrated and broken by the German attack . This book helps me understand his unit pride.
I loved this book! I felt as I was there alongside the captain. As he described the welcome that the Americans received as they liberated city after city, I felt I was there. And I felt a warmth in my heart. My favorite moment moment was when he described how it felt to just light a cigarette, in the open without fear. It reminded me of how the little things can mean so much. And that the freedoms we take every day, were fought and died for. Definitely one of my all time favorites!!!
Very interesting and gives a perspective on everyday life and the sheer efforts of simply getting through the days as a commander. A shame there were no sketch maps as it’s difficult to visualise movement and dispositions where the author obviously knows but we have little to go on. Have to say, what I assume is a cultural thing, of every person being described by rank and also where they come from in the US was tedious.
Granting that it has lulls, much like the campaign it covers, when this MacDonald's account is good - it's fantastic. I knew of MacDonald from his work on the Battle of the Bulge, and was surprised how much of this book, about half, chronicles his time fighting WITHIN Germany. It this regard "Company Commander" is unique in my experience.Recommended for anyone interested in WWII Western Front, and a must-read for those interested in first person accounts.
Great account of GI’s warThis book describes better than any other book I have ever read about WWII the hardship, courage, and sacrifice made by the average GI during the European campaign. My one reservation is that it did not provide any detail on how the front line units were resupplied with food, ammunition, fuel, etc., but that, after all, was not the focus of a company commander leading a combat infantry unit.
It was definitely a splendid read. It could be a basis for another mini-series or another Company of Heroes game. Furthermore, I've learned a lot from Capt. MacDonald from his combat leadership and that's all I can say. However, I pose some reservations regarding fraternization and some war crimes that were left unmentioned.
