https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15622.Native_Son
Well, here is Larry's two-word review of the book:Holy shit.I concur.Those who have studied the Harlem Renaissance know that Richard Wright was a passionate, angry man, the writer about whom other African American writers of his era would say, "Well, I'd never write THAT, but I'm glad someone did." Native Son is a brutally frank look at the racial divide of the America of the 1940s, and the relevance to today is positively painful.There have been many profound and moving stories, both true and fictionalized, of young black men wrongfully accused of crimes.
It introduces us to our protagonist, Bigger Thomas, who I’d heard of even before I read this book; I knew that he had accidentally killed a white girl, and then killed a black girl to cover his crime.
It would have been more satisfying to have finished reading the book and said, "Thank God all that crazy racism stuff is over," but watch the news on any given day and you know it's alive and well.I was fascinated by how the whites and blacks interacted.
As long as he and his black folks did not go beyond certain limits, there was no need to fear that white force.
I thought Wright did a good job giving a thought provoking narrative without obviously saying "here is the answer!" The story acknowledges that the whole situation is difficult and will not be easily remedied after years of habitual behavior on all sides of the issue.
The subject matter may be difficult at times but it deals with topics that are, by there very nature, intense and cannot (and should not) be sugar coatedFinally, I could not help but make comparisons between this book and To Kill A Mockingbird.
One has got to appreciate the diplomatic mincing of words that graces the GR blurb.  "Set in Chicago in the 1930s, Wright's powerful novel is an unsparing reflection on the poverty and feelings of hopelessness experienced by people in inner cities across the country and of what it means to be black in America." A distinctly innocuous 'what it means to be black in America' is a nice little euphemism for 'institutionalized racism' or terminology like 'white supremacist capitalist patriarchy' which
Bigger Thomas embraces an absurd world and finds meaning in an otherwise futile existence only by committing accidental murder and finding a sense of accomplishment in that act but unlike Camus's Meursault the source of his private angst and indifference in the face of persecution is situated within a realm in which Jim Crow laws reign supreme.
No other work has brought back memories of 'The Wire' (which has got to be the best thing ever made for television viewing) as acutely as 'Native Son' and Ta-Nehisi Coates' powerful diatribe against the systematic destruction of 'black bodies' in contemporary America (Between the World and Me) because both books and tv show explicate the heart-breaking consequences of social injustice in its many macabre avatars and the trickle-down effect of public policy aimed at preserving the noxious but brittle status quo.
Updating my shelves. I read this in high school for a book report. Being that I'm from the Chicago suburbs originally this was one of my first exposures to life in another part of the city and I found the book to be fascinating. It would be interesting to reread it through adult eyes.
(SPOILERS!!) Reading the first two parts of "Native Son," Richard Wright's landmark novel is an absolute thrill.
One part Tom Ripley, one part Graham Greene's "Brighton Rock," the antihero reigns triumphant.
But this antihero lacks panache, intelligence, even, perhaps, a conscience...
The character study is super taut and intense.
"Fear" & "Flight" (parts 1 & 2) are absolutely perfect.Then the bloody politics come in.
The courtroom drama I do not particularly like (think: the 600+ pages of "Bonfire of the Vanities"!), and that is why "Native Son" loses some points on its journey to reach almost-perfection.
In a fair and just world, he would not be one of countless mown down for everything but a valid reason.This is not a fair and just world.No, this is a world where we have those who profess to be not only good writers deserving of literary rewards, but good teachers of writing to boot, despite bigoting their scope of literature down to the basic principle of whom they identify with based on parameters such as gender, sexuality, and color of skin.Do you know what that sort of mentality would leave me, reading this book?
بر اساسِ نظر نویسنده، این جامعه بارها او را به قتل رسانده است و دوباره او را زنده کرده تا بازهم او را به قتل برسانداین جوانِ سیاه پوست و خشن، پس از درونی کردنِ انگیزه هایِ جنایتِ خود و پس از کاوش در پیامدهای آن، به خودآگاهی دست میابد، لذا از جنایتی که مرتکب شده، نتیجه ای میگیرد که هم برایِ قاضی و هیئت منصفه، و هم برایِ وکیلِ او، تازه و البته غیر مترقبه استنویسنده، «ریچارد رایت» بر این نکته تأکید میکند که توجه او تنها به مسئلهٔ سیاه پوستان نیست و در مقدمهٔ کتاب مینویسد: هنگامِ نوشتنِ این رمان متوجه شدم که «بیگر» سیاه نیست!
Maybe it's the inevitable melancholy of getting older, but reading this novel for the second time, roughly 13 years after the first go, has made me tremendously sad and despairing.I would like to think the country is so much different 70 years after its publication, but is it?
Wright's work isn't as tame as the weary Hughes and he manages to surpass the shocking tact of James Baldwin.Bigger Thomas is a murderous and rapacious young man who through his horrendous acts of rape, theft, and violence somehow manages to elicit an amount of sympathy.
You'll beg for him to stop committing these crimes instead of demanding him to be caught and killed.The mob mentality in this book is frightening and dark, darker than Bigger Thomas himself.
I told him how I had managed a liquor store there years ago and transferred one of my clerks, an African-American woman, because she had been threatened on the job by a skinhead.
I told him how when we had an African-American co-worker, it was understood that she wasn't allowed to travel to the office alone.
When he asked me what I was reading and I told him, he responded simply, "Good book." Things seemed a bit more somber between us after that.
In narrative, theme, character and motifs, Wright uses his whole arsenal to show us the horrors of racism.
I've read other Black writers before, but this book is probably the one that has taken on and embodied racism more so than any other book for me.
Wright's prose, while rhythmic and artful, is quite straightforward and easy to read.
I can't recommend this book enough, and not just as a means to understand racism from more angles, shine a light on our own behaviors, but also as a gripping literary thriller that has stood the test of time.
Put it on your to-read list.
The easy route for the author Richard Wright would've been to write a novel asking us to sympathize with a black man wrongfully accused of murder in a racist community.
Instead he implores the reader to follow Bigger Thomas, a young black man who is absolutely guilty of committing a deplorable act (for reasons which he himself cannot fully explain), and forces us to look at the circumstances which might have possibly created this complex man.
A challenging and important book that pulls aside the curtain and looks dead on at the circumstances that create Bigger Thomas and at the social, class, and racial relations in our society.
One of the main reasons was because I simply detested the main character, Bigger Thomas.
The reason I disliked him so much was not because he is amoral; no, there are characters in books I like who are quite evil.
The reason I disliked him is because he did things that were completely pointless and he was also not a very deep or interesting character.
This book also dragged on far too long (in my opinion), and never gave the reader much reason to sympathize with the main character.
Main characters do not have to be "good guys", of course, but they should at least be interesting!
The summary arguments of the defense counsel at the trial near the book's end is long and passionate in which the argument is made that the violent criminal acts of this defendant are products of our unfairly segregated society which predictably has led to anger and resentment.
(hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]There are two conversations between Bigger Thomas, the book's protagonist, and his defense attorney in which Bigger discovers for the first time a glimpse of what perhaps may be purpose and meaning in life.
The first conversation occurs before the trial when the attorney asks Bigger, "Tell me about yourself." The subsequent recounting of his life's dreams and disappointments creates feelings that are new and have not previously been experienced by Bigger.
In Native Son, Richard Wright takes you into the mind of one black man, Bigger Thomas.
However, I did feel an immense amount of sympathy towards Bigger and I still can’t quite wrap my mind around what it must feel like to never have been treated as a human, as an equal to all other people in the world.
I felt as if I owed it to Bigger, to history, and to the suffering black people of the past and present to read and understand Bigger’s story.
The suspense made my heart race even though I knew what was going to happen. I found myself holding my breath and clenching my fist; the description about how Bigger was feeling was so vivid. The subject matter was a lot to swallow but I see why this novel is a classic; the description of racism was enough to change the world.
Richard Wright takes us to Chicago in the 1930s, where Bigger just obtained a new job working as a chauffeur under the wealthy Dalton family.
Mary Dalton, the family's luxurious daughter, and Jan, her communist boyfriend, treat Bigger well - a suspicious feat because Bigger has suffered tragedy all his life.
That night ends in tragedy when Bigger kills Mary in a claustrophobic space, leading to a violent cycle he cannot escape.
However, I most appreciated his commitment to revealing the inner workings of Bigger's brain.
In the interior monologues of his protagonist, he spells out the alienation and hostility of men like Bigger, and comparisons with today's society, with a prison-industrial complex that exists largely to incarcerate black men, are hard to avoid.Richard Wright was apparently a novelist of the naturalist school, and his writing has been criticized for its lack of imagery or style and a tendency towards polemicist.
What with a second Like of a the previous blank review (to say nothing of the pathetically non-puissant comments I've made below regarding the desire to read it again), I have become aware that I must reread this in the coming year.
I still have the book after all these years.
Actually I've now done something at home that I think will make it a high-probability read in 2018..
.Previous review: The Works of ArchimedesRandom review: The MisanthropeNext review: 2017 on GoodreadsPrevious library review: Look Homeward AngelNext library review: Without Feathers Woody Allen
"Confidence could only come again now through action so violent that it would make him forget. These were the rhythms of his life: indifference and violence; periods of abstract brooding and periods of intense desire; moments of silence and moments of anger - like water ebbing and flowing from the tug of a far-away, invisible force. Being this way was a need of his as deep as eating."  4.5*Bigger Thomas might be the most difficult character I've come across in fiction. Never have a I felt so un
4.5*Bigger Thomas might be the most difficult character I've come across in fiction.
Bigger makes one bad decision after another, commits two heinous crimes, literally digs his own grave and yet, he feels like he could not act any other way.
Without a doubt, Richard Wright achieved his goal of making the reader come face to face with America's biggest sin.
Bigger Thomas can't escape from the horrible crimes he committed, similarly the reader can't turn away from what Wright presents.
For me, the opening scene with the rat is one of the most memorable scenes I've read (possibly because I have a super big fear of rats).
As long as he and his black folks did not go beyond certain limits, there was no need to fear that white force.
And he expresses this confinement to his friend Gus as “They don’t let us do nothing.”While he’s on the run, Bigger realizes that killing the two girls was his only true acts of living in his entire life.
Never had he had the chance to live out the consequences of his actions; never had his will been so free as in this night and day of fear and murder and flight.” It is Bigger’s tragedy that only through killing the girls could he assert his existence, could he live.I recommend Native Son for its depiction of a people living in the fringes, the despair and the sense of confinement, the longing to live fully.
That's not to say the creation of Bigger Thomas isn't still happening around the country today, but advancements have happened and are worth celebrating.I'm not in love with Wright's writing style.
I read Black Boy in college and felt like it suffered from the same problems: overly preachy and wordy, with long drawn out speeches and long drawn out (and repetitive) descriptions of how characters are feeling.
I felt like he easily could have knocked 100 pages off this thing and still been just as effective--if not more so!Still, passages of the novel have an intensity hard to match.
Racists could point to Bigger Thomas and say, "See, that's how they are, at the end of the day." Social-justice whites and blacks could say, "Mr. Wright, we need all the help we can get right now, so why are you writing a novel about the black plight in America by showing the worst of the race?
Powerful.
Unsettling.
Originally published in 1940, the story is set in Chicago in the 1930's.
A small-time criminal, Bigger Thomas is a young black man on a downhill slope, hurtling toward what you know will be a terrible end.
Sullen, resentful, full of fear, he has a deep anger that eventually boils up and over, driving him to the horrific acts that will have him fighting for his life in the judicial system.
I felt relieved upon finishing the book, actively glad it was over.
I'm not a person who must have a happy ending, but this tale was dark enough to make me want to reach for something more light-hearted for my next book.
It's not a one to one parallel between Bigger Thomas (view spoiler)[ who did in fact murder Mary Dalton and Bessie, since the reader was there with him for both (hide spoiler)] and Michael Brown, but the rhetoric surrounding the black man involved in both is eerily similar.Another point that explicitly involves discussing details of the plot later on: (view spoiler)[ What was particularly uncomfortable was knowing that Bigger did murder two women, even if he didn't rape them or commit the other crimes he is accused of in the end by the police.
Do you want to understand how it was for Blacks, particularly those who are poor, in the States, in the 30s and 40s and of course before that too?
I was totally thrilled with the book and its message....
He can imitate Black women singing, newspaper reporters, radio announcements; he did everybody perfectly.DO read this book!!!
Do you want a book with suspense, one that will have you sitting on the edge of your seat from the start AND one that has/had an important message AND one that is perfectly executed?
I understand that Bigger is dangerous.
Native Son is a good novel with a compelling story about the racial division in America society.
However, upon reading the last book ,Fate, I began to understand Wright's gist on the racial biases.
To avoid this fate, Bigger uses violence as the only alternative to evade submission to white society.
Thus, I can't honestly say I liked Native son; it is not a book one enjoys due to the extreme unfairness in Bigger's trial.
Rather it is a book that helps one understand the appalling ways that society's racial discriminations could shape a person.
Even Wright is terrified of him.
I've read a lot of protest books, a lot of warnings, but most authors give you a way out: "Look out, but here's what you should maybe try to do." With Bigger Thomas, Wright says, "Well, here's what you got." And...holy shit, man.He's such a powerful force that Wright spends the entire last third of his own book basically saying "Holy shit!" Which is why this only gets four stars from me; that "Holy shit" part is much weaker than the first two thirds, and I can't recommend this book to you without the caveat that the last 150 pages is pretty tough going.So listen, I'm not gonna tell you to skip the last third because I'm not really important enough to say something like that, but in case you do, here's what happens: (view spoiler)[Bigger is not going to win that court case.
This is the kind of book that is best read without any foreknowledge, so I don't want to say too much, just that I don't think I've ever felt the kind of pit in my stomach the first half of this book gave me.
