https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40670008-before-the-fall
How any two people end up in the same place at the same time is a mystery.
There are so many intricate details, from the Jack Lalanne background to the details involving investigative procedures differing between various forms of law enforcement and military, I could feel an extra level of depth to this story than if the author had chosen to just keep everything focused on a surface level.
Even with the ending as it is, this is a fantastic book that is well written with developed characters and nail-biting suspense to keep you from doing the dishes and laundry for two days (not that I know that from personal experience...).
It's difficult for me to recommend thrillers to non-thriller readers.
A certain number of fridged relatives in order to grease the emotional gears of the plot machinations.
Look, I know.But I think BEFORE THE FALL is a mystery/thriller I can recommend to non-thriller readers.
"This," I will tell them, "is a thriller!" Actually I will mean, "This is what I always want thrillers to be."The hook is simple: a small plane crashes with two fancy business moguls on it.
It's fast-paced and tightly plotted, which is always on the menu of Genre Thriller Cafe.
I don't watch a ton of TV, and I'm not just saying that because I'm on a book website trying to be all like oh yeah TV hahaha I'd rather be reading obviously.
The beginning of the book was like watching a pilot episode where a plane with a bunch of Donald Trump level rich people crashes and it's super intense and,man, we just gotta find out what the heck happens and there is this crazy story of survival.
(we are on to you, Amazon)...ha!"No French philosopher living or dead could convince Jack LaLanne that the problem of man were existential.
(Scott was only 6 years old).....he watched Jack LaLanne swim in 50 degrees water with a thousand pound boat chained to his waist.
Reading "Before the Fall", I started to wonder 'when' ( what years?), did the integrity in journalism take a turn?
This is a fiction story --- yet the author gets so much right about the creation of fabrication in journalism.
Take the ordinary household toaster......there is a lengthy passage covering what the household toaster means to different people - to the engineer, to the cook, to itself.
I mean really?
It brought nothing to the book (except, in my case, dissatisfaction), and there was a great deal of this type of writing.I found myself mid-chapter wandering off to read the paper, do crosswords/Sudoku and to pop a few pieces into the current jigsaw.
A great pity the author didn't stick to it.Thank you to NetGalley and publisher Hachette Australia and Hodder & Stoughton for a digital ARC of Before the Fall by Noah Hawley in exchange for an honest and unbiased review.
Also included are another rich guy who has been doing some shady business deals and his wife, a poor painter that rich guy number one's wife be-friended and offered a ride and the crew and bodyguards.
Sixteen minutes after the plane takes off it crashes.There is only two survivors, the painter, Scott and the young boy.
(The author does a good job of this.) Scott really tries to hide from the media attention.
The media attention is spot on in this book.
I'm going with highlighting my friend Ann Marie's review on this one.
An opinionated bully of a political commentator from the news network uses his show to spin wild conspiracy theories as well as inciting a witch hunt against Scott for having the unmitigated gall to survive while rich and important people died.There’s two parallel stories going on here.
The first is a Bridge of San Luis Rey kind of thing where we follow the lives of the people on the plane as well as others impacted by the crash.
It’s the same kind of story telling skill he’s shown himself to be a master of on Fargo.
A plane crash, eleven on board, only two survive, Scott a painter with a troubled past and the young boy, J.J. that he manages to save.
Either way he has lost his right to privacy.Not an edge of your seat page turner but rather a behind the scenes look at the talking heads we see on our television screen after every disaster, the role of the media in inflating outrage and conspiracies.
A look at the lives of each of those who were on the plane.
Really an in depth look at what goes on after a disaster, very well done.
What happens to those who survive a disaster of this magnitude, how it is to be the last man standing.
More mystery than thriller, it focuses on what brought down the plane, the arrogance of money, and the sleazy journalism tactics employed while reporting the story.
Remember when the news on television really was news, with stories confirmed by more than one source and reported in a professional manner?
Throw out the suggestion of something sordid or even the most remote chance of wrongdoing, and watch the piranha-like audience swarm.
Just think of the poor guy casting his good eye about looking for a likely looking spot to sink his line .
I liked it, but didn't love it.
Two unexpected survivors manage to chisel out headlines of their own: one wandering artist with a low-registering pulse in the art field and a tiny four year old boy.Noah Hawley breaks through those tall letters printed as headlines.
It's episode upon episode of revealing steps that brought each individual to that time and to that place.Hawley's artist character, Scott Burroughs, can be labeled as Everyman or No Man as he literally crawls out of the wreckage of the aftermath of the crash and of its impact on his life.
King's infamous suspenders and Murdoch's phone-tapping allegations are obvious, but they are merely the most recognizable of the amalgam of those who seemingly care more about the story than those who are victims.
What is truth and what is just a marketable story?
The fact that Jack LaLanne was a reality TV star when it really WAS reality that he was selling was just the absolute perfect tie-in to this story.
Ironically, the mystery of the crash is pushed to the outer rim of our interest just as victims so often are.
There are two survivors, recovering alcoholic and painter, Scott, and a young boy, JJ, the last of an extremely powerful media family.
Scott find himself traversing from hero to zero in record time.
As Scott gains notoriety, he finds his life turned upside down and served as fodder for consumption by the media.
Various stories interweave and amidst it all is the central question and suspense of what happened to the plane.
This is a well written and intricately plotted story which I very much enjoyed reading.
A highlight for me was the relationship between Scott, JJ and Eleanor, the aunt.
Funny how a book can start out so good, still have me interested half way through, then go downhill.
The story took an interesting twist as one of the survivors is questioned, could he have had something to do with it?
What ensues is a character study of the adult members of the plane.
A lot of interesting questions were asked in regard to hero worship and how society expects one to act in such situations.
It became a big focus of this book, almost more than discovering what happened to bring down the plane.
The framework of the book is simple enough: one summer night, a plane takes off carrying the head of a major television network (think: Fox News) and his family, a soon-to-be-indicted wealthy money launderer and his wife, a security detail, the crew, and one last minute add-on, a painter named Scott Burroughs who is right on the cusp of fame.
Sixteen minutes later, the plane crashes, leaving only Scott and the young son of the television mogul alive.
Does Scott know more than he’s saying?But on a deeper level, this is a book that is unafraid to tackle the bigger questions of a catastrophe: the drawing of false conclusions.
With each story, the reader is provided with possible clues of what caused the disaster.Scott's story as a young lad, of how he decided to become a swimmer, using good old Jack LaLanne as an inspiration is the best, of course, but how he uses his strength and determination to accomplish an amazing feat while reflecting on his own life's ups and downs is the meat of the novel, "and".......his communication skills dealing with the low-life media man Cunningham......the icing on the cake.While some of the back stories were a bit wordy with details that seemed unnecessary, I still could not stop reading, and the ending, well, it was okay, scary really and plausible.A bit disappointed overall, but am still rounding up.....go figure.
More character study than story, this was a very interesting book.
While it does get overly poetic at times, I think it serves the story and I was satisfied with both the journey and the outcome.One of my favorite things was its honest portrayal of pop culture and the media and how, together, they skew our view on things with no evidence - just a negative spin on the facts.
I found myself wondering how often I am led to believe that someone or something is nefarious simply because it makes for a good news story.
The network spoofed in the story has got to be Fox News.
I read much of this and listened to some of it on audio. To me it felt very much like a screenplay. I kept thinking of Lost, more because of the backstories than the plane crash. All tell and no show, I didn't find this overly compelling and I found the segments with the "newscaster" very realistic but exhausting. 3 stars.
Or is it a thriller, as the authorities (of course, not without the usual pissing match between branches of the government) try to figure out what really did happen on the plane that night?Noah Hawley tries to make this book all of those things, which means it doesn't quite succeed on any of those fronts.
But the book gets bogged down in looking at the lives of each of the other passengers and crew on board that night, and what brought them to that moment, and then the zealous media coverage of the crash and the suspicions being levied against Scott (particularly by a corrupt anchor on David's network), and it really frustrated me.Since Hawley is the executive producer, writer, and showrunner for the television series 
What happens to the survivors?If you ever saw the show "Lost," which also featured a plane crash, the structure of this novel reminded me of those episodes, in that the book jumps back and forth between current events and each character's backstory.
(Hey, that's also true of Lost!)My favorite character in the book was Scott, one of only two people to survive the crash.
Mostly I enjoyed the book while I was reading, and there was some satisfaction in how the story turned out.Hawley does have one writing quirk I wish he would fix in future works: often when a character is asked a question, Hawley wrote, "Scott thinks about this." Or, "Scott thought about that." This phrase happened so frequently that I couldn't believe an editor didn't catch it.
Add to that the presence of key wealthy and powerful people on board the plane, and the FBI and various other agencies also become involved, sandwiching Scott between them.This is as far as I want to go with the plot in this review, because you simply must read this book for yourself.
This occurs in parallel with the days it takes authorities to find the wreck in the ocean and reconstruct what happened to cause this plane to crash less than 20 minutes into its flight.Reading the chapters of each crew member and passenger who perished is an experience unlike anything I have felt before from a book.
Against all odds, one of the passengers, Scott Burroughs, a fine art painter, survives the crash, finds the one other survivor, the four year old son of the executive who chartered the plane, and starts to swim ten miles to shore with the boy.
There are flashbacks to the past as it explores the lives of each of the nine people who died in the crash: the executive of a conservative cable channel, his wife and nine year old daughter, their Israeli bodyguard, the money manager under an SEC investigation for money laundering, his wife, the crew.
And so that's what he painted.Ultimately this is a novel about coping with whatever disasters life might bring, large or small, and being a survivor.
As is quite evident by the book's cover, Before the Fall tells the mysterious story of a plane crash, in a private jet on its way to New York over the Atlantic ocean.
Not much is known, except a floundering painter and ex-alcoholic, Scott, survives, along with a four year old boy who he rescues in a bone chilling exertion.As he unfolds the keys to the mystery, Hawley introduces us, one by one, to each person on the private jet, giving us enough to see their individuality and the path that leads them to the plane.
BEFORE THE FALL by NOAH HAWLEY was an enjoyable and a memorable read which I will be thinking and talking about in the future when sharing this book with my family.
It makes me so happy to be able to share my books with others!
That is part of the excitement for me when I have read a really good book.
I found the title and cover of this book very fitting and for the most part liked NOAH HAWLEY'S writing style but not so much the way some of the dialogue was presented as it was a bit distracting.
This is a clear cut case of "it's not you, it's me." This book was not for me, please take my review with a grain of salt.I was under the impression that this was a thriller/suspense novel, and I didn't get that vibe at all from this book.
I also thought the format of the book was interesting, I enjoyed how the chapters were broken down into individual backgrounds, however I didn't enjoy the individual backgrounds themselves.All in all, I would give this book 2.5 stars rounded up.Thank you, Netgalley, for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
The flight under normal conditions should take about twenty nine minutes but, sixteen minutes into the flight, the aircraft crashes into the Atlantic - and there are only two survivors: Scott Burrough's, a painter, and JJ, the four-year-old son of David Bateman, who is a wealthy and powerful media mogul (President) - of the twenty four hour news network - ALC News.Scott was invited onto the flight by David Bateman's wife, Maggie, who saw him at the Farmers Market - she also saw her friend, Sarah Kipling, and she got an invite, too.
So basically, this is a book of two mysteries; one being a plane crash, the other.....and only one them gets solved.Anyway, Scott eventually reaches land, and he's a hero to some, and a person of interest to others.
Before the Fall is a book containing extremely rich (no pun intended) characters, most of whom are quite flawed; some are likeable (Scott, Eleanor & Gus), some are detestable (Bill & Doug, etc.).
Are there good guys or is everyone so fatally flawed that it makes them sinister?
Scott at first, is portrayed as the hero though the media slowly tries to shatter that image, simply because, well, it makes for a better story.
Several thought provoking issues are brought up, via the media coverage of the events after the Fall, that make me wonder: 1) How much of the news reported today is real and how much is trumped up?; and 2) How far do journalists really go to get the story?
Can’t hurt that Author, Noah Hawley is creator of the TV Fargo.The Line ” How any two people end up in the same place at the same time is a mystery.”The Sinker – I loved the beginning pages of Before the Fall.
Disaster strikes, the plane crashes, the artist survives and miraculously saves the life of the four-year old son of the wealthy owner of the jet.
I enjoyed learning the back-stories of all who boarded the plane.
(view spoiler)[ I saw the ending coming, almost from the beginning.
And unlike some of today's real life crashes, the author was kind enough to provide the reader with an answer to the mystery--one that I was completely satisfied with.Every character's past is dissected (both victim's and survivor's) weaving back and forth between their past and back into the present where a full scale investigation is ongoing and fingers are being pointed everywhere.
I don't know how accurate all of the investigative parts are, but it sure was a fascinating look at the 'behind the scenes' of what can take place during an investigation.I highly recommend this well-constructed page turner.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “In the absence of facts, we tell ourselves stories.” Lucky you. You get two of my reviews on the same day! I check out so many books at the same time with every intention of promptly reviewing them . . . .  So what am I doing today? Well, if my boss asks I’ve been working diligently. However, since it’s the day before a holiday errrrryone pretty much knows that isn’t true so I’ve actually been downloading pornography from the library
but I sure as shit like reading about ‘em!Anyway, like I said the main plot point that ties everything/every character together is a plane crash.
Plus, they’ll be dead in 16 minutes away.The real focus is on survivors Scott, a painter of unusual images, and the media mogul’s 4 year old son (again, not a lot of character development on that one which is good because, in case you haven’t been around them, 4 year olds are kind of douchebags).
While Before the Fall does have a bit of a “mystery” vibe included with respect to figuring out exactly what happened to make the plane crash this was more of a character study.
What happens when your life can’t be translated into a linear narrative?”-	Noah Hawley, Before the FallThe premise is simple: A small private plane, carrying eleven people, crashes into the seas off Martha’s Vineyard.
He is the creator of Fargo on FX, a dazzling show that often gets overlooked in this era of Peak T.V. When you read the description of this book, about an inexplicable plane crash that focuses intently on the lives of its passengers, you think to yourself, I’ve heard this before.
