https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77430.Master_and_Commander
While reading it I was bouncing around between everything from a bountiful 5 star rating for pure quality of writing, hefty historical detail and superbly drawn characters, all the way south to a skimpy 2 star for less than engaging plotting, iceberg-like pacing and noticeable lack of emotional resonance.
Still, I liked the book and intend to read the next volume in the series because I know if I get pulled into the narrative by the characters, the rest of the story would be much more enjoyable and could become a very special series.3.0 stars.
It will be interesting to see how their personalities develop in following books.The plot was complex, with the author doing that sometimes frustrating thing (Dorothy Dunnett does the same) where something happens or someone says something and you can tell it's significant, but you can't figure out why because the author isn't spoonfeeding you everything.There's a lot of humor in the story, some of it so dry that it's "blink and you miss it." At one point Jack and Stephen are at a fancy dinner party held by Captain and Mrs. Harte.
Jack Aubrey, the frustrated naval officer, at last, after a long wait, on shore, receives his own ship to command, the brig Sophie, but by the strange ways of the British Royal Navy , called a sloop.
But Captain Harte, commandant in Port Mahon, will not help the new master and commander of the Sophie, with needed material and supplies, the jealous man, knows about his wife Molly's, dalliance with him.
The music-room in the Governor’s House at Port Mahon, a tall, handsome, pillared octagon, was filled with the triumphant first movement of Locatelli’s C major quartet. The players … were playing with passionate conviction as they mounted towards the penultimate crescendo, towards the tremendous pause and the deep, liberating final chord. Thus the first sentence of Master and Commander; thus begins the grand series of historical novels penned by Patrick O’Brian over the last three decades of the
Thus the first sentence of Master and Commander; thus begins the grand series of historical novels penned by Patrick O’Brian over the last three decades of the last century.
I have looked at it briefly, but never tried using it while reading the novels.)This book introduces the two main characters in the series: Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, who become acquainted by chance when they both attend the chamber music concert at the Governor’s House.Jack Aubrey is an officer of the Royal Navy, who has just been given his first command as Captain of His Majesty’s Sloop Sophie.
Without giving anything too much away, the story follows Jack Aubrey and the physician Stephen Maturin through various adventures and misadventures of the naval life during the Wars with the French (the book opens in 1800, technically right before Napoleon's total control of the situation), and deals with everything, in terms of events, from the dissection of a dolphin to the etiquette attending relations among naval officers and their responsibilities, relations with enemies (some of the scenes with opposing French officers were exquisitely hilarious as well as revealing of history), to rip roaring (and incredibly suspenseful pageturning) naval engagements of every size and scale.
ii.  I'm at it again, but this time I opened up my Aubrey-Maturin reread by listening. It took a month of commuting, but it was worth the time and the patience, and though I have gleaned no new insights into Master and Commander, my enjoyment of the audio experience was more than fulfilling enough.O'Brian wasn't a big fan of the audio versions of his books, nor of the men reading them: “To revert to my ideal reader: he would avoid obvious emotion, italics and exclamation marks like the plague -
It took a month of commuting, but it was worth the time and the patience, and though I have gleaned no new insights into Master and Commander, my enjoyment of the audio experience was more than fulfilling enough.O'Brian wasn't a big fan of the audio versions of his books, nor of the men reading them: “To revert to my ideal reader: he would avoid obvious emotion, italics and exclamation marks like the plague - trying to put life into flat prose is as useful as flogging a dead horse.” As a fan of O'Brian's "flat prose," however, and one who is only coming to the audio books after having read the novels multiple times, the life that his readers bring to the characters is as welcome as a fine Madeira off Gibraltar.I've long heard that Patrick Tull is the man to listen too when it comes to Aubrey-Maturin books, but my MP3 copy of Master and Commander was read by Simon Vance.
Maybe it's a blasphemy, but I prefer the Aubrey-Maturin series to all others, even Holmes-Watson. Every book is packed to absolute straining with erudition, wit, history, and thunderous action. I read two books from the series every year - they're reliable standbys when I absolutely must read something I know I will love.
Master and Commander begins English author Patrick O'Brian's lush and literary epic seafaring historical fiction series based on the career of a naval captain during the time of the Napoleonic Wars.
When they meet at the book's outset - Aubrey a lieutenant without a ship, Maturin a doctor without a penny - they nearly kill one another, but fortune forgives all and these two entirely opposite individuals are brought together into an unlikely but mutually beneficial friendship, one that at times tests boundaries, but also one that warms the reader's heart.
O'Brian fashioned him after real-life naval hero Admiral Thomas Cochrane.
I loved the film, and really, really wanted to love this book (with plans to go on and read others in the series) but with the exception of perhaps the first chapter, I found the first hundred pages to be sheer drudgery.
I'm years out of school now, and have nothing to prove to myself or anyone else - I just want to enjoy (and understand) what I read.
There are too many books in the world, and life's too short, and if all I can do while I'm reading is cast longing glances at the next book on my bedside table, it's time to move on.
Jack impulsively asks Stephen to join his crew and be the ship's surgeon, and that is the beginning of a beautiful friendship that apparently lasts 20 books.Stephen is not a member of the British navy, and thank goodness for that.
My favorite parts of the book were the conversations between Jack and Stephen, Stephen's outsider perspective on all things naval, and the different battle strategies used at sea.O'Brian has a good sense of humor, and I frequently laughed out loud while listening.
“Patriotism is a word; and one that generally comes to mean either my country, right or wrong, which is infamous, or my country is always right, which is imbecile.” ― Patrick O'Brian, Master and CommanderOver the years I've collected O'Brian's paperback novels at used book stores, sale racks, goodwills, etc., one or two at a time.
Hell, there are twenty different books in the Master and Commander: 20 Volume Set.There are many things to love about this book.
Again, I'm only one book deep into this series, but I must admit now that I'm finished with Master & Commander, it was like I imagined and like I feared.
Self and selfishibility.” (hide spoiler)]I was wondering about whether it meant that I have some kind of hatred of men that I’m not aware of, and it was belied by the fact that, while I was listening to this book, I kept thinking about Justin’s colorful expression of hating women.
I don’t remember exactly what the quote was, but it said something like, “It is so difficult for the genders to communicate that among these very wise men, sometimes they will say things, and I can’t help but think that it sounds very similar to stupidity.” The day after I posted that quote, a man I know came up to me and expressed that he was offended I would post something that was so clearly anti-men on my facebook.
Il fatto di avere già visto il film non mi ha punto rovinato il gusto della lettura, anzi, semmai ha accentuato il piacere nel leggere come sono andate le cose agli inizi di tutto, quando i due compagnoni si incontrano per la prima volta, e il piacere di sentirmi raccontare in versione "originale" alcuni episodi che avevo già visti riportati in veste cinematografica.
Some of the differences are obviously deliberate: while Forester's theme was the loneliness of command, O'Brian gives us two equal protagonists, the commander Jack Aubrey and his ship's surgeon Stephen Maturin, whose friendship is the main subject of the stories; whereas Hornblower was tone-deaf, Aubrey and Maturin spend leisure hours playing Haydn and Corelli; and in distinction from the pragmatical Hornblower, O'Brian's heroes are both members of the Royal Society -- Aubrey a mathematician and Maturin a naturalist.
But the more important differences lie in O'Brian's deeper and broader conception of the historical period (much of it conveyed through Maturin's work as a secret agent and political advisor) and his more finely tuned sense of character and social relationships (shown most impressively in O'Brian's ability to create complex and convincing women, which Forester really couldn't).
Jack Aubrey is given command of his first ship.
The main and most lovingly drawn character in this book is the ship itself, the Sophie.
It’s a very cinematic novel – more focused on action scenes than character interaction and this was another facet that prevented me from loving it.
That said, it’s hard to imagine better descriptions of sailing ships at battle.
It’s also part of a very long series so the court martial at the end was deprived of all tension by the knowledge that Aubrey would live to fight another day.
How could a trained pilot write a 20-novel Aubrey-Maturin (yes, this is 411-page book is just the first) about naval warfare during Napoleonic Wars (1803-1815) with such details and jargons as if he was from the era?
Read this book and be amazed by the details of the sea battles like the sinking of enemy ships, the killing of the ship crews, the splattering of blood and brains on the cabins.
Overall, this is about the unlikely friendship between two men: the fat and voracious eater English Naval Captain Jack Aubrey and the Irish-Catalan physician-on-board Stephen Maturin.
“Never mind manoeuvres, always go at them.”-Patrick O'Brian, Master and CommanderO'Brian's Master & Commander, the first of his impressively lengthy 21-volume Aubrey/Maturin  series which takes place during the era of the Napoleonic Wars, surely must have one of the all-time great set-ups of a male friendship in all of literature.
The meeting of our two protagonists - Jack Aubrey an impoverished lieutenant aching for command of a ship, Stephen Maturin a rather aimless surgeon with a deep love for natural philosophy - takes place during an intimate musical performance in the Governor's House at Port Mahon.
I read the Hornblower series not long ago, also as audio books, & this series was recommended to me.
Both are historically accurate in many ways, although this series seems a bit richer for historical detail, one of the good by-products of O'Brian's wordy style.Well read by Simon Vance.
Aubrey is far more likeable & understandable than Hornblower.
The addition of the doctor, who has no sea experience, really helps explain much to the reader.Again, I'm impressed & horrified at life on a ship at the time.
I don't like Dickens' writing either, though.
IMO, he was paid by the word & writes like it.
OMG I finally finished this fucking book. Clearly I'm not cut out for nautical fiction. I didn't understand 50% of it because of all the nautical terminology. But I did enjoy the seamen. HA! Seriously, the characters are great and it's very funny but sort of plotless. Glad I read it. Never read it again. Although kudos for realism. Goat sodomy was mentioned and Captain Jack Aubrey caught an STD. You won't see THAT in Pirates of the Caribbean 5, eh?
And with the velvet softness of the April night and the choir of nightingales in the orange-trees and the host of stars hanging so low as almost to touch the palms.Jack Aubrey gets happy news of a promotion and command of the brig Sophie, he and Dr. Stephen Maturin (the small dark man at the concert) offer each other handsome apologies and the two sail off for the first of 20 books that tell the story of a friendship that will outlast wars, competition in love, vast differences in personality and beliefs; but held together by deep mutual respect, humor, and a love of music.People who get bogged down with this book generally do so because of the incredibly complex, completely accurate descriptions of ship’s rigging, sails, maneuvers, how to fire a great gun, intricate battle scenes, etc.
Not just the boating and navigation and weaponry, but also a little with ye old english.The story and characters are set up quite well, we get an overview of Jack Aubrey's career background and are introduced to two key other players, James Dillon and Stephen Maturin.
At least from the title of the series, I know that Jack and Stephen will be constants throughout.Notes on the Audiobook:When you read a book that everyman and his dog has already read and the whole world thinks is the ants pants in nautical storytelling, there's a certain expectation that you will 'get-it' once you start reading.
I can't begin to put into words just how much I enjoyed listening to this story!
I am in complete awe at having just discovered this series and knowing there are eighteen more books still to be enjoyed.How wonderfully well written the characters are and how much I care about them already!
I love the doctor and how he writes in his journal about Jack Aubrey and his shipmates.
O'Brian makes life on board the ship come to life.
This book was quite a long story, really.
It tells how Aubrey and Maturin meet and how Stephen becomes the ship doctor.
Ai confini del mareNon so perché - io che sono cresciuta a pane e Isole del tesoro – non avessi ancora letto un libro di O’Brian.
In questo romanzo c’è tutto quello che si può chiedere a un buon libro: narrazione coinvolgente (grandi velieri, arrembaggi, avventura), sontuosa ricostruzione storica (in questo caso del periodo napoleonico), perfetta caratterizzazione dei personaggi… insomma, per chi ama il genere una vera e propria goduria.
Hereof nor you nor any of you may fail as you will answer the contrary at your Peril.And for so doing this shall be your Order.Given on Board the  Foudroyant at sea, 1st April, 1800 The  Sophie  is Jack's first command, and his elated reaction brought back to my memory two favorite short stories by Joseph Conrad :  Youth  and  The Secret Sharer  .
La forza infatti sta, per lo meno in questo primo libro, nella caratterizzazione veramente splendida dei personaggi umanissimi (la coppia protagonista, ma anche tutti i secondari), nella varietà delle situazioni (non mancano comunque scene più avventurose ed emozionanti di battaglie), nel tono lieve e spiritoso ma profondo, nella finezza dei dettagli (l'unica pecca è che O'Brian per esprimere i pensieri dei personaggi li fa spesso "parlare tra sé e sé", cosa che a me sembra sempre un po' artificiosa e innaturale, nonché una tecnica narrativa poco raffinata...
In places, when describing complex tacking maneuvers, the ways in which sails are set, or fleets wearing or attacking together, O'Brian gets fathoms deep into nautical jargon so that even Stephen Maturin, the well-appointed lubberly reader's surrogate, can't bail you out.
O'Brian's jargon, and especially his dialogue, is so briny and believable that it maybe doesn't matter what his characters are talking about.
Also, the relationship between Aubrey and Maturin is so well-realized that I'd listen to them talk about anything.
The only drivers in this book (and the series as a whole) are Aubrey's desire for promotion, and the maintenance of his relationship with Maturin.
"O'Brian" (his nom de plume, a fact revealed after his death) was a big fan of Jane Austen, so I read "Pride and Prejudice" and immediately saw this most unlikely and remarkable connection between two authors of different gender, subject matter and time periods.I loved the simplicity and propulsive "though line" of the plot.I especially loved the characters, not just the incredibly real Captain Jack Aubrey and his "particular friend" Dr. Stephen Maturin, but also every single background character that seemed so well-formed and unforgettable, even years after I read it the first time.I loved the thrilling action sequences: danger at sea; wartime strategy and tactics; bloody fights; bravery; patriotism; boys growing into men; and the heavy weight of leadership.
The book is chock-full of sailor shop-talk, but the nice thing was that I could still get a sense of what was going on, even if I couldn't tell a mizzen staysail from a jib or understand what exactly everyone was talking about.But the best part, and something I'm glad survived into the movie version, is the glorious bromance between Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin.
Every first Sunday, the Captain was required to read the Articles of War, which delineated all these heinous crimes such as threatening an officer, or failing to proceed against the enemy with adequate haste, or any one of a number of miscellaneous other offenses, each of which would result in the death penalty.This volume should be read first, for O'Brian clearly explains the nomenclature and functions of each part of a working eighteenth-century sailing vessel.
Listening to the audiobook meant that it was harder to move about in the book to check on things, so some of the detailed information being explained to Stephen Maturin and thus to the reader was probably a bit more confusing than it would be if I had been reading the book.As someone who listens to and plays music, and is also a birdwatcher, there were delightful references to music and birds as relief from being immersed in nautical manoeuvres for much of the book.
There was also the beginnings of what will no doubt continue to develop as a great friendship between Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin, and the occasional references to their individual backgrounds, of which more may be learned in later books.Definitely a series which I shall continue to enjoy.
