https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80064.Coming_Through_Slaughter
”What he did too little of was sleep and what he did too much of was drink and many interpreted his later crack-up as a morality tale of a talent that debauched itself. But his life at this time had a fine and precise balance to it, with a careful allotment of hours. A barber, a publisher of The Cricket, a cornet player, good husband and father, and an infamous man about town.” Buddy Bolden takes ragtime and infuses it with the blues, creating a new music called Jass, an early offspring of what
Buddy Bolden takes ragtime and infuses it with the blues, creating a new music called Jass, an early offspring of what eventually becomes known as...Jazz.
A guy who plays like that makes some kind of deal with the Devil, and what if that deal goes beyond Bolden’s own precious soul and demands a piece of everyone’s soul that is ever touched by the sound of his horn?Uh-huh.It can be true.You’d think a man who works as a barber might whisper a warning to those he clips and shaves.“Don’t listen to what I’ve got to play.” He might say that.
The way Ondaatje will have two sentences on one page, a half page full on the next, spaces randomly assorted, reminded me more of jazz as it went on.The book is Bolden falling into madness, but it is portrayed through a novel structured after the music he played.* It’s been years since I first listened to Bitches Brew, and years since that four-or-five pack folly made up the entirety of my smoking history.
"Idiosyncratic" would be an understatement. Its as if Italo Calvino is adapting a Wong-Kar-Wai script into a novel. Ondaatje dances on the sharp edge of Prose and Poetry. People are condensed into single paragraphs, experiences condensed into single words; its a lyrical Arpeggio of emotions ending in a sublime crescendo. A minimalist arpeggio that creates a cavernous symphony by striking the essential notes of human existence.
I wanted to love this first novel of Ondaatje, but I am left feeling it is like a jazz improvisation that doesn’t achieve flight enough to linger long in the mind.
My disappointment feels similar to looking for a Picasso Blue Period in the origins of his mastery and turning up instead an aborted Cubist Period.
Still, it was worth it for me to experience this dalliance with a postmodernist structure and witness his transition from poet to novelist.This slim 1976 book is an ambitious attempt to bring to life a seminal black jazz cornet player, Buddy Bolden, at the turn of the 20th century.
The one novel on the Isle of Arran for sale that was remotely acceptable. There are no longer any remotely acceptable novels for sale on the Isle of Arran.
Not the last time that a force of creative talent might succumb like this.I'm not so sure that this is "the best jazz novel ever written" (as one blurber has it), but it is certainly a moving suggestion of a New Orleans at the dawn of the 20th century.
Apparently at the forefront of improvisation, sadly no recordings of his music exist (if any were ever made), and only the one known photograph survives - used as the book's cover (Bolden is back row with his band, 2nd from the left).
If Bolden stops on the hymn, the Good Lord wins.
Thinking about this book, I remembered a line that's spoken near the end of the film, The Man Who Shot Liberty Valance: "When the legend becomes fact, print the legend".
Donald M.
Marquis, in his book In Search of Buddy Bolden ,https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3..., put together probably as many facts about the legendary New Orleans musician as we'll ever come to know.
Michael Ondaatje, in this novel about Buddy Bolden (which was written before Marquis' book was published) has written a haunting dreamlike version of the Buddy Bolden myth.Donald Marquis has given us the facts.
Michael Ondaatje has given us the legend.

English Patient, who? Now THIS is more like it. Experimental, impressionistic prose in the wild subjective to convey the surging, elemental sensibility of one of the deeply mythological founders of jazz...love that kind of thing and it necessitates this kind of writing. Very much enjoyed...
Many credit Charles "Buddy" Bolden as the creator of jazz, that most truly original American contribution to the arts.
Ondaatje tells the story using a facsimile of the language of the time, and splays it out upon the page as if a jazz chart.
It was fun, but bracing in its hardcore plundering and physical destruction of the human body and brain, the latter in the form of the shocking schizophrenia that hit him suddenly at the apex of success.
This was 3.5 stars, it was just a little too cool and I could not feel for Buddy when his schizophrenia approached since there was insufficient character development up to that point.
There are few books that I say I will read again that I actually do (my opinion is that there are far too many books to re-read), and even fewer that I actually do read them again. This is one book that I believe will be one of those select few. Often the heart is the one thing about poetry I actually understand. In this novel Ondatji's poetic heart comes through in a form I can relate to. Matters of genre-defining aside, this is truly a beautiful book of words and story.I was moved and "in" from the first.
A historical figure of whom we know very little, of whom there is only one extant photo, and no recordings.
Michael Ondaatje weaves a captivating story from only shreds of evidence through a form of prose that I have never quite seen before.

I read this in an attempt to understand a little more about New Orleans.
And to read more of Ondaatje, who I love.
And because I was 32, a year older than Buddy Bolden when he went insane.Set in the Storyville district of New Orleans in the early days of the Jazz era, CTS unravels Bolden's life, (barber by day, cornet player by night) his sorted love life, madness, death-obsession, and jazz.
Lyrical prose.
Did I say lyrical?
Sorry."And as told in Coming Through Slaughter, his story is as beautiful and chilling as a New Orleans funeral procession, where even the mourners dance.
This novella leaves me wondering: Am I a prude? OR Did Ondaatje rely too much on vulgarity rather than digging for story?ORBoth?
I've followed him from San Francisco (Divisadero) to Sri Lanka--one of his native lands--(Anil's Ghost) to the bowels of a Sri Lanka-to-England-to-Canada cruise ship (Cat's Table) to historical Toronto (Skin of a Lion) and finally to New Orleans for Coming Through Slaughter.
Not everyone loved what he played, but they all applauded his skill and inventiveness, and they agreed no one was louder.We know little more about his life than we know about the sound of his music.
And here's where Ondaatje's genius makes Coming Through Slaughter such a superb piece of writing.
Ondaatje uses various first and third person narrators, stream of consciousness, as well as real and invented testimonies by Bolden’s contemporaries to breathe life into the facts.The legendary and mythical figure of Buddy Bolden is the perfect ticket for Ondaatje’s freedom and poetic licence.
Shattered windows, and corroded or burning photos are a leitmotif throughout Coming Through Slaughter.Interestingly, it isn’t until after befriending Bellocq that thoughts like this enter Bolden’s mind – Bolden, who had always been happily immersed in the circulating love, sex and scandal of Storyville.“Nora and Picket and me.
I decided to read Michael Ondaajte's jazz age novel, Coming Through Slaughter (1976), as background reading to color in my recent trip to New Orleans.
This novel is a fictional depiction of the life of an obscure jazz musician, coronet player Buddy Bolden.
It does seem that this early jazz pioneer had a breakdown that landed him in an insane asylum, which tells us that we would really never know what it was that landed him in that institution but ripe for the imagination of a writer like Ondaajte.
I was looking forward to reading this novel, enticed by the promise of lyrical writing and a look into the life of New Orleanian jazz musician Buddy Bolden.
All I found was a rambling, imitative style (think Nabokov, Faulkner, but less tightly written), and incessant focus on sex and women-as-sex-objects; almost every sex scene included violent language and felt misogynistic.
While a motif of sex and sexuality would have been nothing to complain about in and of itself, it seemed a shame that this motif so utterly trumped the inclusion of Bolden's music, and that the female figures in the book were continually robbed of power/objectified/subjected to rhetorical violence by the writing style.
Najgori osjećaj na svijetu kad knjizi zapičiš dvicu i onda vidiš da ispod padaju četvorke, petice, petice, petice, četvorke, petice, četvorke, pa se bojiš da ti nedostaje neki senzibilitet, neki dio inteligencije koji bi ti pomogao da uočiš što je to tako vrijedno i lijepo u ovoj kaotičnoj knjizi.
No ne mogu se više praviti fina i davati neutralne trojke knjigama koje mi se nisu svidjele.
I neću više govoriti da je problem u meni, a ne u knjizi.
I found this book absolutely haunting. As I've said before no other writer that I know of writes so damn... emotionally as Ondaatje. I was put inside the soul of jazz man Buddy Bolden - and his mind. This book is in turns maddeningly austere, and in others florid with intensity. Portions of this novel also have a pasted together feel, like overly humid newspaper clippings laid in collage upon a New Orleans light post. It lends itself well to a man who was said to have lost his mind.
I'm aware that I've been giving crappy reviews lately (not that any of you care. I CARE). I'm going to continue that trend. The most interesting thing here was how form fits function--this novel is a blues song in a book. Would probably not have chosen to read it on my own and it's not super helpful to my current aesthetic but still interesting.
Dark, experimental prose that plays with form and language, mirroring Buddy Bolden's descent into madness. Ondaatje has lines that reach up and smack you across the face in this one.
The first Ondaatje novel I have read and on the strength of this, I will certainly be seeking out his other books.
This is the imagined story of Buddy Bolden, the jazz pioneer about whom very little is actually known, and the prose is exquisite, original, clever and frequently offbeat, just like the best jazz music.
At times I was reminded of one of the absurd and highly inventive 'routines' of a William Burroughs novel, for example the incident of the woman who is strangled Isadora Duncan style by her pet snake while she is driving.
The last quarter of the book flagged a little and I don't know why.
The novel Coming Through Slaughter was written by Michael Ondaatje, a prize winning author and poet. Born in Colombo, Sri Lanka; he first got his writing skills by taking up poetry then moving onto making books. Some of his creations even being made into movies, such as Carry on Crime and Punishment, The Clinton Special, and Royal Canadian Hounds. In the novel Coming Through Slaughter, Michael Ondaatje, introduces Buddy Bolden a famous jazz musician. The story takes place in New Orleans in the j
In the novel Coming Through Slaughter, Michael Ondaatje, introduces Buddy Bolden a famous jazz musician.
Michael portrays this theme by having Buddy go through various things while he is gone and he himself begin to realize that he is losing himself and comes to the realization that he is indeed a lonely man with a drinking problem.
While reading the novel Webb, Buddy Bolden's best friend, searches and will go through all costs until he finds him.
The way Ondaatje portrays Buddy and tells the story is so different.
He suffered an acute mental breakdown the following year, and was admitted to the Louisiana State Insane Asylum, where he was confined for the remainder of his life.Michael Ondaatje, a confessed lover of jazz, provides us with a fictionalized account of the life of Buddy Bolden, in the form of an improvised riff led by a childhood friend, who became a police officer outside of town and came back to investigate Bolden's increasingly bizarre behavior and downfall.
Ondaatje provides the reader with foggy and staccato-like glimpses of Bolden, his wife and mistress, and several other characters who were close to him.
Coming Through Slaughter  is a story I revisit often. I have read this story countless times, each time appreciating the writing and narrative more and more. Ondaatje is a wordsmith and his talent shines with his ability to intertwine fragments of song, faded photographs along with snippets of dialog. Buddy Bolden is an enigma and Ondaatje's prose preserves the shroud of mystery this talented musician deserves.  Admirers of poetry, music, history, lovers of Buddy Bolden, jazz and of course New
is a story I revisit often.
I have read this story countless times, each time appreciating the writing and narrative more and more.
Ondaatje is a wordsmith and his talent shines with his ability to intertwine fragments of song, faded photographs along with snippets of dialog.
Buddy Bolden is an enigma and Ondaatje's prose preserves the shroud of mystery this talented musician deserves.
Admirers of poetry, music, history, lovers of Buddy Bolden, jazz and of course New Orleans will treasure 
A must read to at least pay homage to the founder of jazz Buddy Bolden and for Ondaatje's lyrical and masterful prose.
And he never made any recordings.Ondaatje gathers every piece of information available on this legend, and engages in lurid fantasies with each little tidbit, fact, and rumor - sort of riffing on them.Listening to far off horns in some southern town, walking past old buildings and dark windows, a person is liable to have the same type of fantasies.Some of these paragraphs sound very much like an over-educated Canadian author and little like an early twentieth century NOLA jazzman, but that is what the book is made of, a scholar and admirer letting his ideas run wild as he chases a personality from archive to hidden interview to street corner and back.The sentences are mostly rich and effective, and as a former cornet player myself, I appreciated how Ondaatje pulls all the sensations of playing a brass instrument together on the page.
Ondaatje is both poet and novelist, and here he strikes a near perfect balance.
It's only 150 pages, but I took my time, rereading passages two and three times before moving on and reading large chunks of the novel aloud just to feel the words drip and plink off the tongue.
It feels immediately like a novel that I will read several times before it's all said and done.
I had forgotten just how well Ondaatje walks the lines: between prose and poetry, between construction and improvisation, between sanity and madness.
The novel exists almost entirely in liminal spaces.
There are phrases bouncing around the summary and reviews for this book that I think are a little wrong in tone.
There's a lot to say/think about this book, and in that sense, while I was moved by it, I know what the reviewer means who said it appealed more to the brain than to the gut.
It's an interesting generic experiment, among other things (e.g. think about Webb's story in terms of detective fiction or pop psychology).
Yes, there is mythology around Buddy Bolden, but this book is not mythologizing in tone or attitude.
