https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3103.Maurice
E.M. Forster (Howards End, A Room With A View) finished this gay-themed novel in 1914, and though he showed it to some close friends, he didn't publish it in his lifetime.
It eventually came out after his death, in the early 1970s.What a gift to have a novel about same sex love written a century ago by one of the premier 20th century British authors!When Forster penned Maurice, homosexuality was so taboo that there was no name for it.
Maurice is a middle-class Everyman – certainly he's not as intelligent as Clive – but isn't he as worthy of love as anyone else?Some details in the book are dated.
M. Forster’s readers had no idea that the author of very successful novels such as Howards End and A Passage to India loved men.
Forster intriguingly describes Maurice Hall’s journey of self-discovery and his sexual awakening.
Clive is deeply torn about his sexuality, even though he makes the first step in admitting his feelings for Maurice.
Forster gives us only a few glimpses into Clive’s inner thoughts and monologues, but they are enough to make the reader understand that Clive lives in denial and self-deception.
Forster likes to let different characters from different social classes bump into each other, as his novel Howards End shows brilliantly.
That said, some of the following comments might be considered Spoiler, but I prefer to think of these comments as what Forster could have done better, should have done better, and any image of Hugh Grant spread-eagled on a table deserves to be noticed, IMHO.At first, I thought rereading Forster’s gay novel for a group discussion would be fun.
Maybe I couldn’t prevent myself from picturing Hugh Grant in the role of Clive Durham and a young Rupert Graves in the role of Scudder; whatever the reasons, rereading this novel, knowing where it was headed, made me impatient, made me angry, made me want to see the younger Hugh Grant shoved face-down over a table, depantsed, and deflowered in the most aggressive way.
The style of English was so refreshing to read.
He goes through a personal hell and back, jilted by Clive who turns to women, here I reckon Clive was probably what we know to be bi today and was easier for him to bow to the pressures of society although quite possibly a sexless marriage to Anne.
Maurice goes through an emotional hell and back, looking at his sexual orientation as an abomination, a disease that has no cure, though treatments are sought the internal struggle remains until it nearly drives him to suicidal feelings.
If Dorian Gray is the dramatic, scandal-creating gay classic, than  Maurice  is the snobbish yet emotionally moving gay classic. Written in 1913-14 but only published sixty years later, this is a book that is impressive - not because of its romance - but because of the character's personal journey towards self acceptance.Began 1913, finished 1914. Dedicated to a happier year. With this heartbreaking opening statement, the story begins. We get to follow Maurice Hall as he grows up and starts to r
Written in 1913-14 but only published sixty years later, this is a book that is impressive - not because of its romance - but because of the character's personal journey towards self acceptance.Began 1913, finished 1914.
Despite knowing society's views, Maurice is certain of his love for his fellow student Clive Durham, a young man fan of the Classics like the story of Achilles & Patroclus.
And while Clive and Maurice are a far cry from those Greek heroes - the English men are snobbish and have misogynistic tendencies - their love is treated with emotion and tenderness surprising for its time.
Possibly my new favourite book of the year so far. I absolutely loved this one - beautiful, moving, such a powerful read.
Sublime.
Oh my God, I won't forget this book.
Maurice and Alec forever.Off I go to read more E.M. Forster, though I know this was his only homosexual themed book in his esteemed career and the book was published after his death, as he'd requested to his friends, knowing the storm it would create in proper English Society.It's a great work.
I am humbled before it as a writer.By the way, the author's terminal note of 1960, on homosexuality, was so brutally true and broke my heart.Yes, Maurice may get away, but Alec will always be scorned upon by the Clives of the world...
Maurice is, for all intents and purposes, a dime-a-dozen love story and a period piece.
The only twist is that this love story concerns two men, which was unheard of in the time that it was written (1913).
Forster wrote it mainly as a therapeutical effort, having grown tired of not being able to write about the kind of love that interested him the most, as a homosexual male.
Published 60 years after it was written, Maurice was still a first of its time, and a decidedly sparkling and endearing read.
Vladimir Nabokov wrote in Pnin: Some people—and I am one of them—hate happy ends. We feel cheated. Harm is the norm. Doom should not jam. The avalanche stopping in its tracks a few feet above the cowering village behaves not only unnaturally but unethically. This is true for me as well. While of course I was cheering for the titular hero through the course of his internal and external struggle for identity, I can't help but feel, after finishing the book "well, that was very nice, but life is no
The whole story of Scudder to me seems a bit forced, a bit sudden, and a bit melodramatic; the reason to love this book is rather for the first half with the slow but genuine kinship between Maurice and Clive.This is, of course, a "gay novel" - perhaps the early prototype of the pandering, panegyric course which that genre has taken: the road from internal struggle to external/societal struggle, to personal acceptance and then to the (not reached in Maurice) ultimate acceptance and embrace from the society or community at large.
Maurice is a novel that isn't perfect, but that is beautiful in its imperfection.
I admit it's been a while since I read this novel, and I never really found the time to reread it, which is a shame, but I do have an old review of mine at hand, and I will use it to remind myself.
Recently I have read Dandy, a contemporary novel with a similar theme of homosexual love set in past times, and since then I couldn't stop thinking about Maurice.
Maybe Clive is a type character, especially towards the end- he becomes a symbol for somebody set up in his ways, a snob.One of the themes of this novel is class.
But it’s a great shame the book wasn’t published any time before about 1950, when a story about homosexual love that didn’t end badly would still have been revolutionary.
By the seventies, when it was, it had become unremarkable; more of an Edwardian period piece, though you still have to love the language.Maurice is not a lovable or heroic character – Forster highlights his careless disdain and unintentional cruelty towards his mother and sisters – and he doesn’t really redeem himself when Clive says their affair is over – “self-centred” describes him well, like many of his class.But he is still portrayed sympathetically, and Maurice captures well the utter loneliness of the loveless.
A beloved college professor used this novel as his starting point for a glorious Humanities lecture on "The Unspeakable Vice of the Greeks." Except for the time I fell down the stairs of the lecture hall and dislocated my shoulder, that's pretty much the only morning I remember from my freshman year.I love Forster's attitude toward his characters, which is similar to one a social worker might have towards his clients: he doesn't romanticize them and sees all of their faults, even emphasizing important weaknesses, but never in a critical way and ever with an eye to the characters' strengths and what's good in them, and always with such powerful, empathic -- yet uniquely, subtly distanced -- affection.
This book was vivid, historical and an unforgettable story of a boy trying to find his place in a rapidly changing world.
Lucy wants to break the chains placed on women and go her own way, make her own decisions, much to the chagrin of her fiancé (who proposes to her three times before she finally succumbs to him and to her family's pressure).5) Both separate from their first relationship: Clive breaks off with Maurice because he (Clive) wants to live a "correct/good" life and thinks he will prosper through a sham marriage.
Em 1913, numa das suas visitas ao também escritor Edward Carpenter e ao seu companheiro George Merrill no Derbyshire, E.
M. Forster foi surpreendido pelo simples toque de Merrill nas suas costas, pouco acima das nádegas.
Forster recusou sempre publicar este romance, apesar das súplicas de amigos como Christopher Isherwood, a quem confiou o manuscrito.
Apesar dos seus esforços, Maurice não deixa de ser quem é, compara-se a Oscar Wilde e teme seguir-lhe as pisadas.Felizmente as convicções de muitos personagens do livro estão hoje em dia antiquadas, mas as dúvidas e a angústia de Maurice são tão reais agora como aquando da escrita do romance.
I don’t know what it is, but something just kicks into place in my innermost recesses when I read his best novels.
Maurice is the novel Forster wrote some 55 years before it was published because the time he lived in was one of hypocrisy and intolerance.
It is a brave attempt to paint a possible utopia which, sadly, Forster himself never lived to see, and it is a touching portrait of two people’s ultimate refusal to bow to the expectations of the times, as well as one man’s claim to have been able to change his sexuality.
For every layer I discovered there were at least two I missed and there’s nothing I love better than subtle complexity, obvious to see for those who’d only look.It wasn’t just the story describing and showing what life was like a hundred years ago for a young man, what it was like to fall in love and know it could cost him everything, it was the writing I fell in love with.
Having now both read the book and seen the film, I have to say I prefer Forster’s words over the acting of James Wilby, Hugh Grant, and Rupert Graves.
Maravilloso..
(hide spoiler)] With his idea and the main message - the acceptance of a human nature - E.M.Forster was for sure ahead of the times.
I would have probably never managed to finish this book if I wasn't convinced by my friend Irina to put the book on hold and watch the movie.
I followed her advice and really enjoyed it.Having been armed with proper visuals I gave the book a second chance.
Confusing at times and lacking in eroticism and passion - I just wasn't feeling it.
For me it had more a kind of educational character, a historical document.But I would highly recommend you the movie.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
“After all, is not a real Hell better than a manufactured Heaven?”
However, I couldn't just let it pass without writing something about the book that will most likely end up being one of my all time favorites.Written in the 1910s, but not released until 1971, after the author's death, Maurice is an Edwardian story about love, class, and finding oneself.
Some chapters, such as Maurice and Clive's breakup, and the cricket match, were masterpieces.I mean, really, the themes are the same in a lot of romantic-type novels, but of course it's different in this case.
Just a beautiful, romantic ending.
I watched it the day after I finished the novel and it just completed the experience for me.
At the end, the retreat into the English greenwood shows two homosexual men attacking/questioning England from a space outside England that is also, paradoxically, the heart of England...really, the thing I love best about this book is its careful forging of a nationalist/queer space.
And of course it's a sweet story that makes your heart glow at the end, because Forster wanted to write a happy ending for his queer men, and honestly, finding a happy queer novel from the late 19th/early 20th century is no mean feat.
This book is pretty much everything that makes me happy in 200 pages.

Lisbon Book-Fair 2018
Me ha parecido un libro extraordinario, de esos que no se olvidan y que merece con el tiempo una o varias reelecturas.
What a quite beautiful, succinct, and fairly brilliant book this is; well worth reading.I only wonder if it mightn't have been better with a bit more Scudder.
As it is, we have an understanding with Scudder, have a picture of him, his terms, his personhood, but we do not understand him, do not inhabit his life.
The book was certainly short enough - why not extend the last third into something a bit more?But ignore my worrying.
The book is very good and well worth any reader's time.
Through his intimate relationship with Clive Durham, in times when homosexuality was considered a crime (it still is a criminal offence in several countries), he struggles to accept himself as he is and explains how he feels and in an attempt to stay true to himself goes against the society and its rules of class, wealth and politics.“It comes to this then: there always have been people like me and always will be, and generally they have been persecuted.” Maurice is more explicitly gay than any YA book I've ever read or than I expected it to be, considering the fact that it was written a century ago.
"Begun 1913Finished 1914Dedicated to a Happier Year" excuse me how dare you kill me mild spoiler - (view spoiler)[forster wrote this w/ a happy ending because he thought two men couldn't have a happy ending in real life so he wanted to make sure they could at least in fiction, i am sobbing and deceased (hide spoiler)]
But when that same kind of love is used to invalidate yourself as a person and more so as a human being it is one of the toughest and most self-afflicting of injuries — gnawing at your being, your knees at the altar of others' bigotry and intolerance, eating up like guilt at the cost of being unintentionally and inevitably different.E.M. Forster's Maurice is a tale of significant sexual awakening and acceptance; a manner of which members of the LGBT+ community will definitely find a reflection of themselves.
** "I love your voice and everything to do with you, down to your clothes or the room you are sitting in.
I was determined that, in fiction anyway, two men should fall in love and remain in it for the ever and ever that fiction allows." - E M Forster.Edward Morgan Forster's author note at the end of this book was heartbreaking to me.
Spoilers below!I was so happy while reading the love affair between Maurice and Clive.
His sudden hatred of his desires and of Maurice sickened me.
But I'm glad that his meeting with Alec, although a tad too rushed for me, saved him from self-sabotage, even in the time he lived.
Although rushed a tad towards the end (imo), I truly think of Maurice as a masterpiece.
