https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59378.Le_Myst_re_des_Cath_drales
The first time I saw this book was on the shelves of my university friend, long long long ago.
Recently, because of my research on Alchemical Putrefaction, I decided to take it up again in the original french (not easy reading for someone who is not a native speaker).
Second, that, no matter what one's opinion might be on the man and his works, this book is an absolute must for all lovers of alchemy.
Third, that this is not a book to read, but a book to study, over and over and over again.
The man or the men behind this works were no ordinary folks.
The most important Hermetic book of the Twentieth Century.
If ever I read a book written by an Adept, this is the one. The mysterious Fulcanelli, who lived in the first half of the 20th century, has not left almost any trace behind him...except rumors and astonishing feats- of a Master alchemist. Even though it's titled "The Mystery of Gothic Cathedrals", this book is actually one the most detailed alchemical manuals. It's a fascinating read for those who know how to read...
I read this book when I was 12 years old to pass the time at my aunts house. Didnt understand a single word of it. I remember it being particularly obscure and dense, but strangely fascinating.With a recently renewed interest in these topics, I will try to locate this book in my aunts library to reread and give an honest, more substantious review. I bet she hasnt moved the book from its place in the last 30 years (she is seriously OCD and I have a photographic memory)
I read this book when I was 12 years old to pass the time at my aunt´s house. Didn´t understand a single word of it. I remember it being particularly obscure and dense, but strangely fascinating.With a recently renewed interest in these topics, I will try to locate this book in my aunt´s library to reread and give an honest, more substantious review. I bet she hasn´t moved the book from its place in the last 30 years (she is seriously OCD and I have a photographic memory)
Muy interesante, ayuda a ver la arquitectura con otros ojos.Eso sí, no es un libro para leerse de un tirón, sino poco a poco, investigando y haciéndose preguntas.
una descripcion sorprendente en especial de notre-dame en paris, ir leyendo y observando cada detalle en vivo es un viaje al mundo del simbolismo y la geometria sagrada!!
Insieme alle Dimore Filosofali, è considerato la bibbia dell'alchimia moderna. Anche qui il Fulcanelli (o chi si celava dietro questo nome) traccia un quadro illuminante analizzando sotto una luce completamente diversa icone, sculture e bassorilievi di alcune famose cattedrali gotiche in Francia. Come per le Dimore Filosofali, anche qui naturalmente la possibilità di comprendere tutto quello che l'autore ci rivela tra le righe è demandato alla conoscenza previa di determinate chiavi di lettura ottenibili per iniziazione.
No creo que pueda decirse algo más de la obra cumbre del hermetismo alquímico. Este libro es la invitación generosa a asomarse por una pequeña ventana por donde se logran apreciar los elementos del "arte goético" que te susurran y te invitan a oír el "verbum dimissum"... Para que logres saber, poder, atreverte y callar.
This book seems to me to be a introduction to the language used - and how it is used - by some alchemists to convey their secrets.
I love books about mystery and this book you can find many details how many religions people built churches, cathedrals,mosque and many sacred places around the world.
Oh, just a little tour of some French architectural adornments.
Intenso, ma a tratti ancora incomprensibile. Purtroppo!
