https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71642.New_and_Selected_Poems_Volume_One
Fantastic! Oliver's poems always touch my heart, and this collection shares her best...especially "Wild Geese," and "The Journey."
Many times I can't understand or find meaning in poems I've read.I was familiar with some of Mary Oliver's most well-known poems, such as "The Summer Day", "Wild Geese", and "Why I Wake Early", but wouldn't have read this entire book if it wasn't for a challenge for National Poetry month.I'm very glad that I took the time to go through this book poem by poem.
While there were a few that left me scratching my head, on the whole Oliver's poems are approachable and quite moving.
I dog-eared at least 20 poems in this collection, so I can easily find them later, and discovered new favorites such as "Whelks" "The Sun", "University Hospital, Boston" and "The Black Walnut Tree".4 stars
I LOVE Mary Oliver and would recommend her poetry to anyone.
She doesn't write those things that are so obtuse that you are afraid to say, "What the hell is that about?" because everyone else is also afraid to say that and so they all act like it's just brilliant and so no one ever just says, "That makes no *&$%!*&!
sense at all.
It's horrible." And such is the world of art and poetry today.Anyway, enough of my rant.
If you don't care for poetry but would like to, read Mary Oliver.
Read them.
It makes too much sense.
Mary Oliver is a national treasure.
She is as close to a living, breathing, Ralph Waldo Emerson as we have today.
And while her poetry explores the beauty of nature, Mary never forgets that we are nature, as well.
My introduction was a poem entitled, The Journey, and I quickly found myself deliriously, deliciously addicted.
But I encourage you to read it all, every glorious poem or prose.
Mary has glimpsed the divine, and with language that is direct and clear, encourages all of us to simply pay attention, and to wake up to the beauty bursting around us.
Yesterday I gorged on my first feast of Mary Oliver's work, racing through three of her short books all in a day. I've started this one with determination to go a bit more slowly, but as I page through what is here, all I can think is oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! More, more, more, more, more!June 20I've finally finished. I took my time with this one, as it covers poetry from many stages of her life, going back to the 1960s. It's hard to assign a rating, but I can recommend it without reservation.
these are poems that teach us how to read (and write) poems.
also how to be alive, pay attention, fall in love, find god.
a brief list of words she uses in her poems that i want to use in my poems: blousesurgelacecowardsorrowsoftvalentinerifequickdeathunstintingfoolishblossoms.
"to live in this world/ you must be able/ to do three things:/ to love what is mortal;/ to hold it/ against your bones/knowing your own life depends on it;/ and, when the time comes to let it go/to let it go."oliver makes being alive and being dying careful, beautiful states of grace.
Wittgenstein once said "Whereof we cannot speak, thereof we must be silent." As a logico-philosophical imperative, this is also an ethical imperative. Oliver's anthology is beautiful and insightful as she is successful in expressing the inexpressible precisely because she does not try to do it. She simply describes life, and in her descriptions we begin to understand life in its competing contrasts and depths. These, it turns out, are the things we fail to learn from, and to see beauty in its nakedness. I'd recommend this to any reader of poetry.
Oh I love Mary Oliver. She is fierce about nature and just when you think you cannot possibly read another poem about another meadow flower she throws one at ya like"listen, are you breathing just a little, and calling it a life?"Brilliant I say.And I love her attitude about life, you can either mope around in your life or you can go forth with the ferocity of all that is splendid and real!
Good poetry collection. Tended towards the nature poetry a bit much for my taste, but these are the collected poems so these are kind of like the greatest hits.
Eliot said the natural language of drama is poetry, I say the natural language of all manner of sentience is music, or anything that evokes it thereby reversing the normal psycho-epistemological process and reaching that raw core in us directly and irrevocably.
She does that and stays there.
"There is only one question: how to love this world," Mary Oliver writes in "Spring," one of the finest poems in this collection.
The selections in this book try to find answers to that question, primarily in the natural world.
There is a beauty in their apparent simplicity, in the observations of a poet clearly in love with the natural world around her.
In her own words:When it's over, I want to say: all my lifeI was a bride married to amazement.I was the bridegroom, taking the world into my arms.From "When Death Comes"
What a lovely writer of simple and elegant thoughts. This one ventured more towards nature and natural settings. Part of one, In Blackwater Woods, will forever stick with me:To live in this worldyou must be ableto do three things:to love what is mortal;to hold it against your bones knowing your own life depends on it;and, when the time comes to let it go, let it go.
The precious poetry of Mary Oliver gets a long look in volume one of her selected poems.
These are classic poems, but Oliver's work stands the test of time and stays fresh better than almost any other poet.
I thought it might have been better to be at a shorter length and go chronologically from her first poems to her later volumes, but I was pleasantly surprised at how more raw and opinionated her earlier works were.
Mary Oliver's poems show careful, broad skill, are beautifully focused, challenge the reader in the most thoughtful, humane ways and, in the end, are brimming over with peace.
My favorite poet by far but I wouldn’t recommend this to anyone but hardcore fans.
She simply became a better poet after this time frame.
It’s all good but just good, and the early stuff shows her trying too hard and cluttering up the poems with poetic flourishes.
Which isn’t to say there aren’t some awesome parts: “When it’s over, I don’t want to wonder/ if I have made of my life something particular, and real./ I don’t want to find myself sighing and frightened,/ or full of argument.
/ I don’t want to end up simply having visited this world.”
Mary Oliver is the greatest of them all. I bookmarked about 25 poems in this collection that I plan to read frequently (and already have.) She writes mainly about nature, starting with the smallest details described in the most artistic way, panning out its (and our) purpose in this world. I will say, I enjoyed the first half of this collection (poems from the '90s/'80s) significantly more than the second half (poems from the '60s/'70s).If you've ever wanted to get into poetry but roll your eyes at rhyme or forced abstract descriptions, I love Oliver's effortless approachability.
From "Spring": "Somewhere/a black bear/has just risen from sleep/and is staring/down the mountain./All night/in the brisk and shallow restlessness/of early spring/I think of her/her four black fists/flicking gravel/her tongue/like a red fire/touching the grass/the cold water./There is only one question:/how to love this world."
An accessible, beautiful, meaningful collection of poetry that everyone should read. Oliver has a marvelous way of writing about the natural world and situating herself (and us) within it, asking the big questions of existence. This is a collection that I will be reading for the rest of my life.
I also like the way this volume was organized, with her most recent poems first then going back in reverse chronological order-- her newer work definitely has a more serene air of wisdom, peace, and stability than her earliest work, where you can see her trying to define her voice, trying out a variety of poetic forms and rhyme schemes.
There were gems in each section, but in general, I liked the poems from Dream Work the most, which I felt dealt most explicitly with those spiritual, meaning-of-life concepts that I love so much.
I feel grateful that Mary Oliver has written approximately one million poems, so there is still tons of her work left for me to explore.
Though Oliver likes to ponder things like the soul, the spirit, higher power, prayer--things from which I tend to shy away--she does so with a typically unoffending, child-like innocence that, coupled with her heavy focus on natural phenomena (or minutia) of her surrounding world, is non-presumptuous and not worth contesting with full force.
And the degree to which she is capable of observing the natural world in a manner suggesting she knows she is still a part of it--or knows she wants to be--something difficult to admit given the concrete jungles in which most of us tend to live--is nothing short of breath-taking and beautiful.
SAL/SPL Summer Book Bingo - Poetry
This was absolutely fantastic!
I can't choose a favourite, really because I enjoyed every poem.
There are so many quotable and beautiful parts.
Most of them are influenced by nature which I personally really liked and thought was very fascinating.
They made me feel happy and sad at the same time.
This was also the first time I've read poetry.
I've never been into poetry - or at least I thought I wasn't - but apparently I was wrong.
I'm glad I got out of my comfort zone and managed to read a bunch of poems and will most definitely continue reading poetry.

Emily Dickenson said it best."If I read a book [and] it makes my whole body so cold no fire ever can warm me I know that is poetry.
If I feel physically as if the top of my head were taken off, I know that is poetry.
These are the only way I know it.
Is there any other way" Mary Olivers' poetry continuously gives me chills and reminds me how amazing it is to be alive in this world.
Could a writer ask for any better success than that?I think her poetry is simple and approachable enough to convince anyone who thinks of poetry as an outdated and aloof form of writing to think otherwise.
Mary Oliver's work has helped me endure many long nights of the soul.
Like so many people, I was introduced to her poems by way of 'Wild Geese,' which would be a cliche except it's so damn beautiful you forget, re-reading it, that it pops up all over these days.
Read 'In Blackwater Woods' or 'Dogfish,' out loud.
Even if you don't like poetry.
Her later work takes up some new subjects, most significantly, her long relationship with her partner Molly, Molly's death, and after.
But while she's never hidden her love for a woman, this is not that oft-mocked beast, 'lesbian poetry.' it's truth, captured in simple words chosen and arranged perfectly.
I know this is a book I will return to again and again. Like Oliver's other collections, I'm never going to stop wanting to read it or finding something new in it. I'm constantly amazed by how her clear, precise language contains such depth of feeling. Oliver's primary concern is her own mortality, and she constantly finds new ways to think about it. Her poetry doesn't patronise, but it remains hopeful. I want to turn to it every time I struggle with expressing myself, because I would love to be even half as direct as Oliver.
Mary Oliver's Pulitzer-Prize winning poetry captures the remote sense of mystery and appreciation of the natural world characteristic of the Unitarian Universalist perspective. She is the rare poet who can use nature imagery to capture the raw pain and beauty of engaging fully in the moment - the perfection of the world, the fragility of life. "Yet under reason burns a brighter fire, which the bones have always preferred." - (from The Black Snake)
I used to read poetry a lot but over the years I stopped not really knowing why. Over the past few months I picked it up again. I kept hearing about Mary Oliver and started to read this collection, a few poems a day. Her description of nature of the environment is so beautiful. My fav from this collectionSleeping In The Forest ~ I thought the earth remembered me, she took me back so tenderly, arranging her dark skirts, her pockets full of lichen and seeds. I slept as never before........
Gorgeous in so many ways, her writing takes my breath away in places. In other places, I wish she would venture out of the natural world a little to the places I inhabit. While I truly appreciate why she is loved by so many, her subject matter doesn't grab me most of the time.
more like I'm reading it AGAIN. I enjoy the evolution of her writing, the steps toward the sparse beauty, and the almost total exclusion of people.. I love her work. What astounds me is how much she says about us, without invoking us at all. We are just animals, after all...
I finished this book of poetry over the Christmas holidays. How lovely. I want her poetry read at my funeral.Looking forward to reading her new book, A Thousand Mornings, that I received for Christmas.
