https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33984056-a-stranger-in-the-house
Let me start this whole she-bang by saying I almost DNFed this book in excess of 10 times.
The premise is actually decent: Tom Krupp returns to his picture-perfect, suburban home to find his wife Karen’s mysteriously vanished.
Yada, yada, yada.Aside from painfully bad writing, A Stranger in the House features perhaps the single worst literary character: Tom Krupp.
In all the time he’s known her (like 2 years.
Tom continues to suck throughout the remainder of the book with such philosophical gems as: “he loves her, that hasn’t changed.
He’s surprised that he can still love her, when he doesn’t trust her.”  AWWW, TOM.
I'm not going to write a detailed review. I found this book to be a convoluted mess. The last 3 pages were good. Other than that, I don't have much to say!
I loved the frantic tone that gave me the feeling of being on edge and the super quick pace.
I carried this book around with me just in case I had a few minutes to get a few pages in!Tom and Karen have a picture perfect life.
That is until Karen's accident, she has crashed her car into a pole and has no idea why she was frantically speeding through a seedy neighborhood!
Has someone been laying in her bed??!!Twists galore and some fast turning of pages.
Lots of fun, quick read, highly entertaining!
Loved it!
I haven't read Shari Lapena's previous novel, the hugely successful "The Couple Next Door", so I was looking forward to reading a book by a new author to me and a one that comes highly recommended within my online book circles."A Stranger In The House" is a brilliant and intriguing suspense thriller that was so compelling I couldn't put it down - I know it's a cliche - but I found it so easy to read and follow, I just wanted to keep on turning the intriguing and entertaining pages.Karen is preparing tea at home whilst waiting for her husband to come home.
But, their lives rapidly spiral out of control when Karen abruptly leaves the house after receiving a phone call, and winds up crashing her car in a bad neighborhood.
To complicate matters, a dead body is discovered near the car crash and it looks as though Karen could know something about the murder, and to top it all off, Karen begins to suspect someone has been in their house, moving little things around and going through her things.
1 "c'est terrible" star !!! 2017 Award - Worst Read of the Year (runner up)  Plastic plot Wooden characters Juvenile writing The Stranger in the House should have a run-in with the Girl on the Train and save us all from these horrible little chick-lit thrillers. Nothing redeeming to say about this except I had to find out how this horrid little book ended. Yuck !
I read strong positive reviews of this book the other day - thought to myself - “oh ...
I forgot the author had a 2nd novel that I wanted to read - as “The Couple Next Door” was good with an ending that had me laughing my bazooka- off....So....The library ebook was available: As I started reading - I kept saying “I’ve read this before”...
It’s rare that I forget about a book that I read....
A Stranger in the House is an intriguing, easy and fast-paced suspenseful psychological thriller that had us both purely entertained by this fun and easy story.
None worth liking but had us oddly invested in them and changing our minds on how we felt about them throughout the story.
The story is told through the perspective of our three main characters and we enjoyed each one and really felt like we got to know them well.
We highly recommend for a fun, nice and easy, purely entertaining story to read or listen to.
I was really enjoying this book, I was intrigued. And although it was a "classic" storyline, were if honesty reigned supreme, none of the chaos would have happened. I kept hoping for "more". Oh, and do not get me started on Tom, what a weak, pathetic spouse!!!!
I was impressed with this quick and easy, suspense-filled thriller!
This was an engrossing and addictive story.
There was a lot of hype surrounding this author, Shari Lapena's, well-loved previous novel "The Couple Next Door".
Going into this one, I wasn't sure how this novel would compare but I actually enjoyed this a little more than her previous book.
The suspense had me hooked and turning the pages faster and faster as the story continued on.I had the pleasure of reading this fantastic book with my wonderful "sister" Brenda.
To find our full Traveling Sister Read review, please visit Brenda and Norma's fabulous blog at:https://twogirlslostinacouleereading....
One day Tom returns home from work and finds their home empty, it seems that Karen was making dinner and had to run out of the house in a hurry leaving her purse and cell phone behind.
The novel is told from alternating points of view and is set in upstate New York.
It is fast-paced and can be considered a psychological thriller.
I did not enjoy it as much as I enjoyed the author's previous novel (The Couple Next Door) because the plot was somewhat predictable and the characterizations seemed to me unrealistic at some points.
Karen's mobile and purse are still in the house but she appears to have left in a hurry.He fears the worse and rings the police only to be told she was involved in an accident in the rough part of town while speeding.
This leads to many unanswered questions, why did she leave in a hurry, why was she speeding, where was she going.This all leads to lots of suspense, intrigue and lots of twists and turns.
A thoroughly entertaining read.I would like to thank Random House and Net Galley for supplying a copy of this novel in exchange for an honest review.
A Stranger In The House is a light, quick murder mystery. Not as great as Shari Lapena's first novel The Couple Next Door, the plot wasn't as tight or crisp in this book, but it was still a good and fun if predictable read. The story kept me engrossed and I didn't want to put it down. I'm not giving it 4 stars because the ending left something to be desired. Will there be a sequel? I sure hope so because that ending was not enough.
I really enjoyed The Couple Next door by Shari Lapena and I was looking forward to reading her new book A Stranger in the House, this thriller had quite a few twists and turns and an ending I did not see coming. I would like to thank NetGalley and Random House UK for my e-copy in exchange for an honest review.
I actually liked the way that was done because even when I was thinking of my own suspects, I still had a level of uncertainty that had me keep reading in anticipation.As per my norm when it comes to this genre ("Gone Girl" and "Girl on the Train" being examples), I didn't really enjoy any of the characters or find them likeable.
If you have read this book and are able to guess who it is from my level of being vague, PLEASE tell me that I wasn't the only person who was repulsed by this character!As a whole, I would recommend this book to those who enjoy the mystery-thriller genre.
Well, you can't love them all. Almost DNF'd this book at 33%, but decided to skim the rest just to see where it went. The premise was certainly intriguing, but the slow pace, implausible situations, and wooden characters turned me off. I'd maybe give this book 1.5 stars? I thought her first book, The Couple Next Door, was entertaining, suspenseful, and fun, but unfortunately A Stranger in the House didn't work for me.
3 1/2The ending...what the actual hell????
4 StarsTom’s wife, Karen, went out and he doesn’t know where she is.
It’s like Karen ran out of the house!
And they found a dead man not too far from of the place of her accident.
But when Karen wakes up at the hospital she can’t remember what happened!
So what did happen to Karen?
And why do they want to frame her?It was an easy read but a good one!
I liked the writing and it held my interest until the end!
All in all, I had a good time with this one and hope you like it as well!
A Stranger in the House is a book with very few characters.
I was surprised to discover that this was the same detective from The Couple Next Door, the author’s debut novel, which I had enjoyed.
After enjoying The Couple Next Door, it saddens me having to admit that I did not get any of this from A Stranger in the House, even though there were moments when there was real potential for it to become interesting.
After having read a few disappointing “psychological thrillers” lately, I believe that I may simply not be the right audience for A Stranger in the House.
*https://mrsbbookreviews.wordpress.comLast year debut novelist Shari Lapena set the psychological domestic based thriller genre alight with her blockbuster novel, The Couple Next Door.
Lapena’s latest novel is another marital thriller that draws on the complication of an overly intrusive neighbour to spice up the storyline.Karen is a happily married bookkeeper and housewife of two years, living in upstate New York.
The investigation into Karen’s accident opens old wounds, exposes secrets and rips apart the safe suburban life the Krupps have built for themselves.Shari Lapena follows up her hugely successful first novel with a solid effort in, A Stranger in the House.
I am not put off reading future books at ALL especially considering how truly great I thought The Couple Next Door was.
It genuinely felt like I'd read it before, and beautiful as the writing was, I just knew the end as soon as I started and whilst I engaged with some of the characters I didn't find them as compelling as the ones from the previous book, not because of them so much but because I felt I knew everything about them already.Its still a good read if you like the genre - I would not want to put anyone else off at ALL, this is very subjective.
A disappointment. Boring and unbelievable story-line, shallow and unlikable characters. I kept waiting for a twist, a turn, a curl, a something to happen, but it was a no-show. I felt I was reading scraps of several books I had previously read, lazily put together, just to fill some pages. Amnesia??? Really??? And don’t let me start on the husband.
I'm struggling with trying to write a review that I feel comfortable posting but I'm failing. So I'll just say that this wasn't the book for me. I almost DNF'd it several times and should have.Sorry. There are plenty of positive reviews so take mine with a grain of salt.
In one paragraph Tom's mooning over the depth of his love for Karen (we know this because the author tells us so), yet in the next chapter he almost seems to despise her.There were no clever twists here for me, just multiple characters doing a complete 180 purely for a contrived plot's sake.
I didn't care about these characters or what the ultimate outcome would be for them.For me, this book was a case of trying way too hard to be clever and surprising and instead falling flat.I hate to trash this author's work, especially since this is the only thing I've read from her.
A really great thriller. The ending is totally worth the wait. Check out my full review on my booktube channel at http://youtube.com/peterlikesbooks
2.5 not hard to predict starsBe ever careful about who you marry and be ever more careful about who you move across the street from.This was a quick read about a couple, two years married and blissfully happy.
They have a neighbor living across the street who becomes besties with the wife, Karen.
It was fun, it was quick, and it was a great way to spend a dreary day reading of just when we think we know someone, fate steps in and slaps one right across the running lights.
When the police arrive at his door, Tom believes that they are responding to his 911 call, but in fact they are there to inform him that his wife has been in an accident.
His wife is badly injured and does not remember what occurred leading up to her accident or why she was in that area (the bad section of town that a nice housewife should not be found in) of town.Karen suffering from amnesia does not know why she left her home, her cell phone or her wallet behind.
To make matters worse, Tom and Karen's neighbor, Brigid, has inserted herself more into their lives and into the police investigation.
Tom Krupp comes home from work one night to find his wife is gone.
Maybe Tom doesn't know his wife of 2 years as well as he thinks he does.
I checked this book out of my local library when I finished one of Lapena's other books -- The Couple Next Door.
This book has a very similar vibe to it: a suburban couple's lives start falling apart when an event crashes through the facade of lies they have constructed around themselves.
This one had some good late wrenches to it....nicely done!I think what creeps me out most about Lapena's thriller novels is that they are realistic.
I'm one of those people who absolutely loved Shari Lapena's debut thriller 'The Couple Next Door' so I was beyond eager to read this one, 'A Stranger in the House.'There's no denying that Lapena is a terrific writer, and this is another well-written story with plenty of suspense and things to figure out.
In this one, however, there's this weird thing where none of the characters are particularly nice people, and everyone has deceptive agendas.
There's just no one here to care about or root for, which is something I prefer to have.
I did enjoy it though, just not as much as her first one.
You NEED to read this book. Trust me. I haven’t had the chance yet to read The Couple Next Door, but if it’s as good as this book... I can’t wait to read it!! There were so many twists, some that I saw coming, but a lot that I didn’t and it was AMAZING. Loved, loved, loved! I won this book in a Goodreads giveaway in exchange for an honest review.
