https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34262.Peter_and_the_Starcatchers
Pulitzer Prize winning humorist Dave Barry, best selling mystery writer Ridley Pearson, and illustrator Greg Call have combined their talents to create a series of prequels to the J.M. Barrie classic Peter Pan. This is the first of those stories.Let me start my little review by saying that this book is so fun, exciting, and enjoyable that I have completely forgotten (almost) the creepy feeling I felt as a 42 year old man wandering around the children's section of the library looking for it.Yes it's a children's book, make fun of me if you want, but it's not like I was breathlessly turning the pages to find out what would happen if Grover encountered a monster at the end of the book.
It all makes for a fast-paced, fun pirate adventure with lots of action and humor (not as funny as the play, I have to admit).
My only gripe about the book, really, is that the authors seem oddly intent on making connections between the book and the animated Disney version of Peter Pan, instead of Barrie's original.
The point is, the book is a fun adventure story that is actually a really well-done prequel to Peter Pan, but if you get a chance to see the play, you absolutely should.
Süße Story und tolles Abenteuerbuch - aber eher für jüngere Leser. Werde die Bücher meinem kleinen Bruder schenken, der damit sicherlich mehr Freude haben wird als ich. Breche die Reihe damit erstmal ab.
Sometimes I think I am Peter Pan because if growing up means you have to put down or put away the things you've loved since you were a kid then I can tell you I don't want to grow up.
I planned to read the original classic one day, having always been a fan of the Disney animated cartoon version growing up, that forever connected me to Peter Pan, Captain Hook, Wendy and all the wonderful characters and places associated with Kensington Gardens and Neverland.
It continued my interest and appreciation for everything I loved about Peter Pan in the first place.
prequel to peter pan.
Grade 5-9–This prequel to Peter Pan refers as much to the 1953 animated Disney film as to J.
Molly, at 14, is an apprentice Starcatcher, a secret society formed to keep evildoers from obtaining "starstuff," magic material that falls to earth and conveys happiness, power, increased intelligence, and the ability to fly.
Here, readers meet more familiar characters: the mermaids in their lagoon; the indigenous people who live in the jungle (modern versions of Barrie's redskins); and, of course, the crocodile.
Capitalizing on familiar material, this adventure is carefully crafted to set the stage for Peter's later exploits.
I love Dave Barry.
My parents both adore Dave Barry, as does my grandmother, and they've been reading or handing off various columns and books of his to me for as long as I can remember.
I love his non-fiction columns, so I was less interested in his fictional books.
I think I've mentioned before that I really adore re-tellings of classic or widely-known stories.
There's just something so thrilling about watching the pieces fit together when you already know what the end result is.
This book fits right into that category.
I knew it was a book for children, but it had a heft similar to the Harry Potter books, and I was looking for something light and fast to read.
At the beginning of the book, Peter and four other orphans from St. Norbert's in London (the future Lost Boys, of course) are loaded onto the ship, the "Never Land" sailing for the country of Rundoon.
I think it would be especially good for young boys who don't have the young adult series like The Babysitter's Club enticing them to read.
But once you know what's actually happening, it's quite enjoyable.Peter and four of his orphan friends (the Lost Boys) are on a boat heading for Rundoon to become slaves to the wicked King.
What you finally find out is that the trunk is full of Starstuff, a precious element that falls from the sky and produces wonderful results such as flying, healing, and the ability to never grow old...see where it's going?The story then climaxes with a battle between Peter, Molly, and the Lost Boys, Natives (the Indians...) Mermaids, and Pirates on an island in the middle of nowhere.

I have vague childhood memories of the tale of Peter Pan and Wendy, which probably come more from the Disney movie than any books that might have been read to me as a child.
But from what I remember, it was one of those stories that starts in the middle of some other story.You don't know, for instance, how Peter Pan came to be a boy who could fly, or never grow-up.
You don't know how it is that he lives on an island with the Lost Boys, a tribe of "Indians", and his arch-nemesis, Captain Hook.In the book, Peter and the Starcatchers, you discover the answer to all those questions.
This was chosen as a book club read for me, and my initial reaction to the selection was "Oh, no.
Not another Peter Pan story." I was pleasantly surprised at this "prequel" series.
It is definitely recommended for kids, but I enjoyed it myself.
I thought the ideas of how Pater Pan and his friends came to be was quite creative.
For any audio book fans, this is read by Jim Dale of Harry Potter fame.
Just like in Rowling's books, Dale is fabulous at reading these stories.
The book (and its sequels) are pretty lengthy, but they read pretty quickly.
Mau tau kenapa Peter [pan:] bisa terbang ??Mau tau kenapa Peter tetep jadi anak2 selamanya ??Mau tau kenapa ada nama Neverland ?Mau tau kapan Peter kenalan sama Molly ?Mau tau darimana asal Wendy ??Mau ???Pake Three.. eh baca aja novel ini.. seruuuu*serasa deja vu gini.. pas banget ya King of Neverland - Michael Jackson meninggal... RIP*
This book deserve 3 stars Really fantastic I decide to rate 5 stars but when press the golden stars i check 3 stars My favorite character, Peter, was portrayed differently than his Disney, film and novel counterparts (He also isn’t explicitly called “Peter Pan” either), but he was still the boastful yet playful and free-spirited character that audiences have come to love.
Overall, it’s an amazing book.
It’s the first in a series — there’s at least three more books following the first one.
This book is horrible.(Full disclosure: once upon a time, I thought Dave Barry was funny -- in the 80's -- so not a total hater.)But I'm a huge J.M. Barrie fan (or Johnny Depp-as-J.M. Barrie).p.s. I read it -- b/c I heard on comingsoon: they're going to make it into a movie.Read the real Peter Pan alongside it -- I was doing that -- and you'll feel totally insulted.The original...We've all seen the Disney cartoon (and the legend is so big), so we think we know it.
I'm not entirely sure what to say about this book. I enjoyed it, it was fun...but I felt oddly distanced from the characters and the story. I never felt fully invested. I don't know if that was just a me thing or if it was the book, but even so I did manage to get all the way through. And it was a nice, fun read.
This book by Dave Barry is very similar to the original Peter Pan But has more action and includes more info. It tells the adventure of Peter and his friends (all of whom are orphaned) on their journey across the sea while being chased by the most dreaded pirate in history: Black stache. I would recommend this book to fans of Peter Pan and other book like that.
What a slog this was to get through, in spite of Jim Dale's wonderful-as-always narration. My husband said that Dale's contribution primarily made it obvious how inferior this book was to the Harry Potter series. We finished it, though...months after starting.
3.5 stars
the background for the Lockness monster bit was funny XDand to my most favorite part which would take 2 stars out of the 4 :the audio book with Jim Dale's voice, once again i felt like i was traveling through harry potter with him, it was magical and wonderful, thank you Mr. Dale ^ ^بعنوان کسی که عشق داستانای مربوط به دزدای دریایی و پیترپنه این کتاب یکم ناامیدم کرد دلیلش برا خودمم کامل مشخص نیست.
داستان عالی بود و یجورایی وقایع قبل از داستان اصلی پیترپن رو میگفت به نظرم یکم هم دزدان دریایی کارائیب داشت توش .
This was a fun adventure! So this is sort of a Peter Pan retelling/prequel of the original story. Basically this story tells us how Peter Pan was created. Fun adventure, and felt very true to the original Peter Pan. I really liked it!
I’m a sucker for all things Peter Pan. I wanted to read this because I was interested in the play, but I don’t enjoy reading scripts so I thought “hey, source material!”.
I think this was incredibly inventive prequel to a very well-loved story.
It could have gone horribly wrong, but it only served to make me love the characters even more.
The writing was not my favorite.
A bit choppy.
The chapters were very short and bounced around quite a lot; perhaps more than necessary.
I didn’t think I would want to continue with the series, but I totally do.
Starstuff is a magical substance that falls to Earth every so often, imparting a sense of joy, the ability to fly and numerous other powers to whoever possesses it.
Mix that into hilarious scenarios involving unlikely flying things, and you have some of the most exhilarating and unique sections of the book.The authors do a nice job of explaining how Peter came to be the character we know, as well as building a setting familiar to us as the Neverland of Barrie’s story.
I tend to think Peter Pan loses a bit of his symbolic and connecting magic when his world and back story are so thoroughly explained.
A treasure that was somehow switched with the decoy.Under fire from Captain Black Stache, the storm that rises up sends everyone ashore where more and greater adventures ensue, and the starstuff wreaks havoc on all.The CharactersLeonard Aster and his daughter, Molly, are from a long line of starcatchers, and they were escorting a valuable treasure to be returned to space.
In my placement my teacher choose to read to the students, as a relaxing fun literature for the end of the year, a book named Peter and the Starcatchers by Dave Barry and Ridley Pearson.
I would use this book as a mentor text to read to my students to discover how Barry and Pearson use it to tell the story of Peter and the starcatchers.
As a mini lesson I would read my own story with two scenes to the class and let them practice the craft with the thoughts of Barry, Pearson and the teacher as examples.
Where exactly did Peter Pan come from?
How come he never ages?
Peter discovers a locked, guarded trunk with strange properties.
A girl his age, Molly, seems to be the only other passenger aware of this trunk - and very possessive of it.
Eventually she must trust Peter with her secret - the trunk is full of stardust.
In short order, pirates, a storm more powerful usual, a small island, Mollusks, Mr. Grin, more pirates, mermaids - well, you catch my drift.This is a delightful book geared towards readers aged ten and up.
Off to find the book two.
I don't mind retellings, but this one just annoyed me a tad.
It could be the narrator's voice - he was OK for most of the story, however he did do some truly cringe-worthy voices for some of the characters and I guess that put me off.
In any case, this is a retelling of Peter Pan and goes back to the days before Peter became Peter Pan. Captain Hook is Black Stashe, the meanest, ornery-est, most feared pirate of the seas.
Smee is there as are some of the other characters, like the lost boys.
I'm a sucker for anything "Peter Pan".
I've seen just about every version there is, and even read the original book by James M.
"Peter and the Starcatchers"was the basis of the hit Broadway production back in 2012.
I somehow managed to miss that one, but I highly recommend the book.
Full of adventure, lots of action and a wry sense of humor, it backtracks to the days before Peter could fly, before Captain Hook lost his hand, and how Never Land came to be.
This is the first of 9 collaborations with Ridley Pierson about the adventures of "The Boy Who Never Grew Up", and I intend to track them down.
I enjoyed reading this book!
For me, the beginning was good, but it was a little slow due to the fact that it was jam-packed with ship lingo.
The story was there, though.
But I must say that as soon as they got to the island it really picked up.
After that, I enjoyed it very much!!!
What I love about this book as I have said before is that it is not a retelling, it is a prequel to the classic story Peter Pan. The illustrations are also amazing, some of them so beautiful that I just stared for a solid minute.
I would recommend this book!
How did I not notice that I have this one?? It looks so interesting! ~*~*~This book was thoroughly enjoyable. Lighter, more middle grade-ish, but a fun adventure with interesting world building, lots of humour and action. :D I'm sorry I let it sit neglected on my shelves for so long!
This book impressed me on my second read, and I can't wait to get more from the story and characters.Speaking of characters, I thought they were surprisingly well crafted.
Sure, none of them were super deep or anything, but this story relies on many different POVs (many of whom we aren't supposed to like) and balances them all very nicely.
Overall, I was just very impressed at the way the authors created characters who all had good and bad sides, and used the characters to keep the story interesting.
