https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43892.Blood_of_the_Fold
I don’t know what the heck could have happened if it was Stone of Tears length (1000+), but it wouldn’t have been good.The main plot here is twofold: First, Richard fights to rally his father’s army behind him and take control of the Midlands in order to unify the area in preparation for a fight that doesn’t actually happen in this book, with an evil emperor who walks in people’s dreams, and who used to live behind a magical border, but WHOOPS Richard brought that border down last book, and evil emperor is out for conquering.
As stated previously, the characters don’t talk like people, and Goodkind tends to repeat himself endlessly, as if he doesn’t trust his audience to remember things that he wrote only a sentence earlier.
*** 4 *** "...“Wizard's Third RulePassion rules reason, for better or for worse.” ..." Book three and I am still enjoying the adventures of Richard Rahl and Confessor Kahlan, Wizard Zed and Sister of the Light Verna, as well as the bunch of other secondary characters who all play a part in the battle between Darkness (The Keeper), and Light (The Creator). Only this time there is a third player, the Emperor of the Old World and leader of the Imperial Order Emperor Jagang, the Dreamwalker. Tum-tum
Book three and I am still enjoying the adventures of Richard Rahl and Confessor Kahlan, Wizard Zed and Sister of the Light Verna, as well as the bunch of other secondary characters who all play a part in the battle between Darkness (The Keeper), and Light (The Creator).
From my experience, the Master Rahl always thinks he knows best, and always wants to rule the world.
When you've destroyed the enemy, then your leaders write down the reasons in books, and give moving speeches about them.
Despite all the maddening stupidity of Richards at times, I enjoyed this book.
So I've been going through the Sword of Truth series (very slowly) and reviewing each book to see if they are actually as good as I remember them, or if I've simply been looking back through nostalgia goggles.
I guess I have just gained a better appreciation for the sort of things that happen in this book in the years since I read it last.We begin with Richard in Aydindril after executing the council and spending the night with Kahlan making sweet love down by the fire in the spirit world.
ORIGINALLY POSTED AT Fantasy Literature.This review refers to the SOT series through book 9.Terry Goodkind’s first book Wizard’s First Rule was great!
There's too much good literature to read.According to Mr Goodkind, those of us who have bailed out are ignorant and uneducated.
I should have realized right from the start ("Wizard's First Rule: People are stupid") what kind of fellow Terry Goodkind is.
If you really want to try a Goodkind book, I would recommend that you go to the library and check out the first few, and then trust me that you don't need to read any further.
I had to stop bringing this book to Junior High just so people would stop asking why I was reading a book about menstruation. Thanks Terry.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
Not even one.P.S. I tried reading Stone of Tears a few years ago, and just couldn't.
I stopped reading the series after this book. I like the premise of the books and the world-building was pretty good. I would have continued reading the series were it not for the juvenile misogyny pervading these books. For such a supposedly powerful woman, Kahlan is assaulted and almost raped at least once per book. Not to mention the dominatrix-type chicks from the first book (hello, geeky teen boy fantasy). Is it too much to ask to have a normal woman somewhere? After seeing no improvement on the normal woman front by book 3, I gave up.
Richard loves Kahlan, Richard loses Kahlan...oh my magic will prevent Richard from ever being with Kahlan again....Richard does the impossible and he and Kahlan are reunited.
Terry Goodkind, Blood of the Fold (Tor, 1996)Back when I was a kid, I was crazy about the various exploits of Donald Sobol's pint-sized sleuth Encyclopedia Brown.
Since the stories were collected from other sources, the first few pages of each were like a broken record, giving all the same details about how the "office" in EB's garage was set up, reintroducing the characters, etc.For some reason, Terry Goodkind saw fit to pull a Donald Sobel in Blood of the Fold, book three in the Sword of Truth series.
The series covers many aspects of the dark side of humanity, in great detail, as the heroes try to overcome the evils in the world.
Goodkind is not afraid to show his readers just what evil *really* is, that is, most often, people who perform acts of evil feel justified in their minds as to why they are doing so, if for illogical reasons, and will that those that oppose them are the evil ones.
Goodkind shows his readers that the only way to overcome evil in ourselves and in the world is through use of Reason.
3.0 stars. Another solid installment of this epic fantasy series and the last of the truly good entries (apart from Faith of the Fallen). Richard and Kahlan are great characters and there are moments a real fun someone muted by the less then stellar prose.
When did all this happen ???
Things keep popping up and names as readers we are not informed of to the extent that I keep thinking there's a book I missed!Magically the keeper is defeated and Darken Rahl's spirit is banished to the underworld , and we find out because a sister of the dark chooses to mention it in a casual conversation!And then there's Gratch !
I find the idea cute really but then at the end :Gratch : I made some friends and I wanna go live with themRichard : ok cool go live with themKahlan : but we love you!
Full review forthcoming.
I find it interesting how confused Richard seems to be much of the time.
He makes decisions based on information and reason and passion, but spends much of his time regretting the decisions he has made, only to finally accept that, yes, he did do the right thing.
And, about that time, we also discovered that Alric Rahl had actually created the gars to help fight against the mriswith!
Wow. Richard's relationship with Kahlan gets deeper, and finally, at the end of this book, the three of them (Richard, Kahlan and Zedd) are all back together!
I got much amusement from the interaction of the three mord-sith, especially in the competition to be Richard's favorite.
Since overcoming the nausea I had succumbed to over the romance betweenRichard and Kahlan (it took a few years, no antibiotics were required),I decided to take another step in the series.
It really doesn't feel like a 700 page exercise, and you're through before you know it.However, I didn't find this book as good storywise as the first two.But I was thankful that Richard and Kahlan were kept separated formost of it.
I must say I think this may be my last outing with this crew.I really can't take Goodkind's sappy take on romance, or the cutesy encounters with Gratch the Gar.There's got to be better fantasy out there that will wow an adult reader.Help!
There are a ton of really cool concepts and magical things that Goodkind throws at you in this book, and he does a really good job with them.
This book basically consists of Richard and Kahlan's attempts to force the Midlands into a massive alliance against the Imperial Order.One of Goodkind's better villains, General Tobias Brogan of the titular Blood of the Fold also makes his appearance in this book.
Brogan is a good taste of what enemies in the future books have to offer.This book has the most insight into gaars, the flying demon beasts that Richard recruits to his side, as well as their opposite, the mriswith, two of Goodkind's cooler elements that are not really present after this.
I really liked this installment in the Sword of Truth series.
Usually the third book is not the best but this one was better than the second I thought; more action, and plot and seemed to move more quickly.
Even though Richard and Kahlan are separated through most of the book, there is enough action to keep it going and finally you feel like the Sisters of the Dark and even some of the Light get their commupance!
The climax is very riveting and keeps you griping the edge of your seat----or pages as the case may be.
You even come it like Verna somewhat.
What I am doing is using prototyping to create fuzzy genre categories in my head, and saying that Goodkind is a lot closer to the romance hub than to the fantasy hub.
I like to take a message for me from the books I read, and I guess it should be to be humble, that I too do this (and I do, all the time), that I become, quite often, the thing I hate because I find it the most direct route to my goals.
I really enjoy the Sword of the Truth series but there are mild peeves that are starting to raise their ugly heads..
For one, Richard's knee jerk reaction, every time he discovers something new about himself he is in denial.
This would be great if someone were reading the books years apart.
I'm reading them back to back so the recaps get more than a little tedious.
But, from what I've read about the other books in the series, this is not likely to changes.Anyway, now onto the next one....
I had a good time reading this book. So much was going on. Everyone was fighting their own battles whether they stood next to friends or across the land.Gratch is awesome *period*Kahlan was being per-ty selfish at times, convinced that Richard was trying to ruin her. Wait. Didn't she say she trusted him completely?Richard, while still strong-willed, made more level-headed decisions in this concerning his life and the people he protected.Of course BotF had its down moments, but they were easily overlooked. Funny how we do that when the rest of the story is great.On to the next~
I wish I could give negative-star reviews.
This was the worse book I've ever read.
I had to finish it to rightfully declaim how insufferably terrible it was and now I can say Goodkind is by far the worse writer (any genre) that I've read.
For those of you that enjoy this stuff, if you give it some effort you can actually find good fantasy if you look for more than twenty seconds in the bookstore, or superb fantasy if you look online.
Try Jack Vance, Gene Wolfe, George R.R. Martin, T.H. White, Poul Anderson, Neil Gaiman, Ursula K Le Guin, or Roger Zelazny.
Goodkind is horrific.
If you like terrible writing, redundant plotlines, inane characters, lots of rape and violence then Terry Goodkind is your man. Otherwise, try Robert Jordan, George R.R. Martin or Matthew Stover.
A horrible third edition to the sword of truth series. Boring antagonists, empty plot, and an overdone romance between Richard and Kahlan. I barely got through this load of crap. Then Goodkind throws in a random nipple fettish ?? Somehow I feel that Terry Goodkind projects his sick fantasies through the characters in his books. Garbage.

This book was frustrating at times because I repeteadly felt like giving a good shake to the main character who seemed to barge into and meddle with things way over his head on a mere whim or instinct! And yet it kept me engaged and not willing to set it down up to the very end because I simply had to know how everyone will get out of that unbelievably glorious mess with no apparent end in sight.
By the end of the book he starts to accept his nature, but the long road to get there (and at over a thousand pages, believe me it's a long road) just makes him seem pigheaded, churlish, and downright stupid.
Unfortunately, his demeanor hardly improved during The Blood of the Fold, so while I had a strong desire to read about the events involving other characters, we ended up spending a great deal of time with Richard in Aydindril, essentially running around getting himself into trouble and dispatching lots of ugly stinky miswrith lizard-monsters (spoilers: while becoming one himself, apparently, because he was using one's invisibility cape willy nilly).
To that end, I hope they're able to keep out of Richard's limelight, as the only personality that seems to survive it intact is Kahlan.
I guess I just feel that a world so detailed, an escapism so complete as The Sword of Truth series needs my full and undivided attention, without me being too busy to commit that I forget what's already happened.In other words, now is the perfect time.I've been ill basically all autumn testing a new medication (which hasn't worked, I start another on Monday), and with the boyfriend having started rehearsals for Urinetown the Musical, I'm on my own a lot.This is really just the kind of escapism I need, and I'll no doubt go straight on to the next book.
I mean really… a man who looks like him in his photo is a little creepy.I want to read good literature.
I want to feel for the characters in the books.
This book left me wanting for all of these things, the only thing I got out of it was disgust.I don't know that I ever would have finished this if I had had to READ the whole thing.
I cannot support the author or his books.
I will not be reading/listening to any more of these.
La saga de "La spada della verità" è composta da 11 volumi ma, leggendo questo terzo capitolo (a cui si aggiunge anche la delusione del secondo), ho già capito che non fa per me...
ma non si capisce come quest’ultimo sia diventato così potente e, soprattutto, non si capisce perché, dopo la distruzione del "Palazzo dei Profeti" (di cui voleva impossessarsi), scompaia completamente dal libro.Altra cosa che non ho proprio capito (ma che allo stesso tempo mi ha strappato un sorriso): c’era proprio bisogno di scimmiottare "La spada nella roccia" di arturiana memoria?
Again, I chose to ignore the unpleasantness.I got half-way thru with Blood of the Fold, and this time I couldn't ignore the violence.
Maybe he gave it to himself to help alleviate the utter darkness of his soul.Seriously, these books are sick with violence and blood and all manner of lewd, crude, and gross behavior.
Being clear-headed once again, and doing well I might add, I could not ignore what's there.So, in short, if you love blood, violence, rape, torture, and stress beyond belief then read this series as you will not be disappointed.I think I need to read a happy now...
