https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2467566.The_Long_Tail
However, Chris Anderson takes an excellent insight, then extends and extrapolates this insight all out of shape, drawing general conclusions about the whole economy that make absolutely no sense.First, consider the source.
Anderson also focuses on music and books for examples, then makes generalizations about all business enterprises that have no economic basis for manufacturing or other non-entertainment industries.
The insight of the Long Tail, that you can make a business case for selling a wider diversity of products that aren't "mega-hits," makes a lot of sense.
Web technology makes the selling of these products possible in a way that was not possible with brick-and-mortar stores.
Connect Supply and Demand: filters to help people find the niche's they are interested in (Google, recommendations, best-seller lists) - One quarter of Amazon's sales come from books outside its top 100,000 titles.
- As the number of niche's increases, the ability of people to consume more content within the genre increases.
This depends on the genre, but it gives me hope that we can increase the number of people who read through Goodreads, by creating better filters to connect readers of various niche's.- each year 200,000 books are published in english, and fewer than 20,000 make it into a bookstore.
I disliked this book for two reasons: I do not believe it represents any original ideas and it is, like most business books, horribly verbose.
The long tail concept is very cute, but after reading it, I can't stop thinking about the story of Sears-Roebuck which Anderson writes about.
Anderson works backward, arguing that Sears-Roebuck represented an earlier, similar long tail phenomenon.
Like the Black Swan, this book could have been 50 pages and offered as an ebook, satisfying Anderson's own long-tail definition by not fitting the typical pattern of other boring business books.
Coada lungă  oferă o perspectivă interesantă asupra provocărilor pe care le ridică digitalizarea, avântul de neoprit al tehnologiei și dezvoltarea piețelor virtuale în contextul economiei globale. Pornind de la principiile clasice ale interacțiunii dintre cerere și ofertă, Chris Anderson analizează cu luciditate modificarea legilor economice și orientarea din ce în ce mai accentuată a consumatorilor și producătorilor spre economiile de nișă, folosindu-se de exemplul unor proiecte de success – A
oferă o perspectivă interesantă asupra provocărilor pe care le ridică digitalizarea, avântul de neoprit al tehnologiei și dezvoltarea piețelor virtuale în contextul economiei globale.
Pornind de la principiile clasice ale interacțiunii dintre cerere și ofertă, Chris Anderson analizează cu luciditate modificarea legilor economice și orientarea din ce în ce mai accentuată a consumatorilor și producătorilor spre economiile de nișă, folosindu-se de exemplul unor proiecte de success – Alibaba, Amazon, Netflix, iTunes, YouTube etc.
Deși am citit cartea asta mai mult forțată de circumstanțe (work-related :-s), 
s-a dovedit a fi o lucrare impresionantă și cu valoare reală, un must-read pentru cei interesați de mediul virtual și implicațiile acestuia asupra afacerilor moderne.
This book is an exploration of how niche markets are on the rise courtesy of better distribution.
And that's a gross summary.
Much discussion is given to the rise of the digital world and how it's expanded the marketplace so that there can be a Long Tail Distribution (for you statistics nerds out there)--- beyond the major hits, you can continue to sell (for example) less popular items, and lots of them.
Reading Chris Anderson’s The Long Tail was like reading Goodnight Moon with the words “long” and “tail” replacing the words “goodnight” and “moon.”Some theories on this: a) The Captains (not to mention the Lieutenants & Corporals & Privates) of Industry who read these books want to have the main points drilled and re-drilled through their brains for anything to stick well enough to be integrated into their “elevator speeches.”b) These business-lite books all begin as tiny magazine essays, little newspaper columns, or short speeches that are then fleshed out into books, but never really have enough meat on their bones to fill out an entire book-skeleton.
Some good quotes, :Walmarts shelves are a display case a mile wide and twenty-four inches deep.
At first glance that may look like everything, but in a world that’s actually a mile wide and a mile deep, a veneer of variety just isn’t enough.” Why isn’t WKRP in Cincinnati out on DVD – licensing for all the classic rock that was fundamental to the TV show that can not be license for the DVD.
Because the Studios have a sliding scale on DVD prices that actually decrease by MONTH.
Statistics – Average blockbuster store has 3K DVDs while NetFlicks has 60K.
Average Borders has 100K books, while Amazon has 3.7M books.
I give up...I can't take any more of this horribly boring book.
I'm giving it two stars instead of one only because it had a few good tidbits of information regarding the evolution of the music and publishing industries (there was some interesting stuff about things such as Myspace and Lulu that I hadn't heard before).
None the less, this is another book about an idea that probably made a fascinating article in a magazine or a slightly interesting online blog, but expanding it into a book took it beyond its attention captivating capabilities.
You could easily fit what the book addresses into a multi-page article without loosing any of the integrity of the theory (and without boring the reader to tears).
But then, in a fully digital life that's analyzed here, scarcity is a thing in the past.
More choices ARE GOOD, not paralyzing - as long as we got good selections of more choices, and assistance on getting these good recommendations (see the MIT lady's column) - for example: after the digital world offer more choices for couples, the wedding planner profession grows - where availability and convenience equal more sales.
I’ve read this book many years ago and revisited it now in 2018 as a way to see how many or little things have changed. This is a book written when - quote - “YouTube was a 6 months old website”, and “Netflix will some day go into streaming rather than sending movies on DVDs”. Definitely worth reading on the long tail theory which absolutely applies to today’s market and products. Heck we even see a long tail of products now (apps)!
The idea can also be synthesized by saying that "hits" are no longer as big as they once were because they now compete with individuals with louder voices.For example, during its most popular seasons, "I Love Lucy" was watched by 70 percent of households with televisions.
That kind of homogenized market in TV viewership is unheard of today.
Anderson analyzes this in many markets (music, television, clothing, even the button industry) and all yield the same paradigm shift: we're moving towards a culture of niches, one that ultimately complements (not replaces) the "hits" we're used to.This is a fantastic modern read.

The book, and its main idea of the Long Tail, has seriously affected the way I see many industries. When the digital book world started really taking off, after Amazon jumped in, I found myself referring to it in discussions of the future of the publishing industry. The internet has allowed businesses to reach consumers (and for consumers to reach businesses) who fall out of the majority--who "live" in the long tail. An important book in helping understand the effect the internet has had on retail particularly.
Such biz. books, where the author is laying out a pattern, idea or a concept, are interesting when those ideas are exemplified i.e. the cases with which the author's trying to prove their point. Those are the most interesting patches for me, though at times things just feel repetitive.
Ebooks are great for authors, but not so much for publishers and retailers.The tip for dealing with information overload that Sutherland gleaned from this book, such as I was able to understand it was that websites like GoodReads, LibraryThing, Amazon, etc can use the books you've already read to come up with recommendations based on what people similar to you have read, helping you explore 'the tail' (the 80 percent of literature that is not in the mainstream canon): "The 'long tail' approach did not seem to mean keeping within frontiers (like narcotic genre-followers) but mapping out whole new, but not dauntingly large, territories, as a kind of mosaic of freshly discovered discrimination...a gigantic smorgasbord in which the onus was on the skill, and idiosyncrasy, of the consumer, no two of whom would pile their plates identically." Sutherland seems to see Anderson's point of view as being a little overly optimistic, because he points out that picking out food at a buffet is a lot different from dealing with a 'deluge' of information.
In The Long Tail, Chris Anderson offers a visionary look at the future of business and common culture.
While Anderson presents a fascinating idea backed by thoughtful (if repetitive) analysis, many critics questioned just how greatly the niche market will rework our common popular culture.
March data for the 1.1 million songs of Rhapsody, another streamer, shows a 22% no-play rate; another 19% got just one or two plays." If Anderson overreaches in his thesis, he has nonetheless written "one of those business books that, ironically, deserves more than a niche readership" (Houston Chronicle).This is an excerpt from a review published in Bookmarks magazine.
Sobre ese artículo construyó un blog, thelongtail.com, que luego convirtió en libro.
Las premisas del autor son tres:1.- Con inventarios digitales podemos alcanzar una oferta casi infinita.
2.- Cuando a los compradores se les da oferta infinita, su demanda se prolonga mucho más allá de los éxitos o bestsellers.3.- La suma de todas las ventas de los productos menos demandados es un porcentaje muy importante de las ventas totales.El autor cita numerosos ejemplos, como Google, Amazon, Netflix, Yahoo...
y muchas empresas más (todas ellas digitales, claro).
El libro está muy bien argumentado y es claro y comprensible.
Крис Андерсън описва края на хитовете в “Дългата опашка”http://www.knigolandia.info/2010/03/b... Отдавна книга на подобна тематика не ме бе впечатлявала толкова. Крис Андерсън наистина е успял да напише една безкрайно интересна и четивна книга, която на всичкото отгоре разкрива супер интересни неща за пазарите и продажбите в наши дни.
Ač je kniha hodně stará a vychází z článku, který byl napsán v roce 2004, tak přeci jen byla pro mě více zajímavější než kniha Herd, kterou jsem nedávno četl. Velmi čtivá kniha se spoustou insightů, jenž můžete v jistých podobách uplatnit i dnes.
This book explains how to take advantage of the Internet by offering a long tail i.e. a great variety of products. This is essentially why platforms like Amazon are so profitable. https://karlbooklover.com/the-long-ta...
A great book for every online reseller to read.
Superb. Incredibly well-written and researched. Anderson is one of my favorite authors. This is one of the most important business books written in years. Read it...then read it again.
Terrific explanation of the long tail in marketing. Explained why there will always be room for good self-published authors.
This book takes an interesting idea and stretches it out way too long, no pun intended. This could have easily been a magazine article.
Should have read it a long time ago. Does a good job popularizing concepts later/also discussed by Benkler, Weinberger, Kelly, and Shirky.
1- In the old model we were limited by geography in everything from local interests to products we consume, massive supply chains of the 20th century replaced that with mass production and national/global interests and products2- supply chain models suffered a physical constraints of scarce shelf space, inventories, broadcast time, etc which meant a pre-filtering process had to be established to decide which products should occupy those limited spaces, hence, a strong consumption bias emerged for top products and top songs creating the 80-20 rule, i.e., 20% of hits dominated 80% of demand3- Modern information age business models broke away from the constraints of physical atoms to the abundance of digital bits, e.g., amazon, iTunes changed this formula by making it very cheap to offer millions of products to consumers who in turn started moving away from the top hits down the curve to the long tail of niche offerings.

This book gives you a new way to think about the way we create products.
Being a generalist is not a good idea when creating products.
Selling your product to everyone is not the goal.
Bottlenecks like the cost to get into a business are going away.
For example: anyone can not sell t-shirts on Amazon with no overhead.
All of that is now automated and possible for anyone to do this using Merch by Amazon print on demand.
Getting into business is a lot easier today.
The future of business seems to be selling less of more products.
TL;DR: Meh. Read the review instead of the book.
Another one of those superficial magazine articles forced into books.
No it doesn’t articulate anything not understood within the framework of conventional economics.
It’s techno-optimistic in that uniquely Valley way - the author notably dismisses the concept of news bubbles in a sentence.
Lastly, for a supposedly futuristic book it is rather tame and doesn’t really try any new prediction (for which at least one could declare it bold) and only extrapolates further on the most obvious trends - anywhere there has been a modification to the model the book has little descriptive power (subscription economies).
You know a book (or in this case, the article the book is based on) is a big deal when a decade later, everyone assumes everyone always knew what the books discovered.
In this case, writing in the mid-aughts, Anderson explains how the internet, distributed production, and changing tastes are transforming retail via the "long tail" phenomenon.
Clearly and concisely written and persuasive - why not, almost everything he predicted came to pass over the following decade.
Almost quaintly optimistic at times, and its fun reading his breathless praise for now-defunct web sites, but also a useful framework for helping understand why companies like Amazon came along at just the right time.
