https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99489.Los_venenos_de_la_corona
And therefore death of the first of the accursed three sons of Philippe IV, Louis X (1289-1316).In general, Druon follows rather closely the historical events, and his factual content is supplemented by the generous use of the footnotes, which I do not want to miss for anything in the world, since they are almost the best part of reading his series.
This episode invites to do a complementary review of the complex politics unfolding in Italy at the time and o learn who this Clementia was (a daughter of Charles Martel of Anjou, a personal friend of Dante).Charles Martel of AnjouIn the novel we also see how not just short but also ineffective reign Louis’s was.
An excellent historical fiction about the struggle for the French crown.
So Louis X has his wife killed so that he can marry his second wife- Princess Clemence of Hungary.She enters this viper's nest of internal politics, as powerful Barons and high lords all seek to remove Louis X.
An excellent look at the politics of the very powerful who ruled France.
In the face of foes like the Count of Artois and his wretched Aunt, the Lady Mahaut, the Hutin finds himself ina truly treacherous place.A wonderful historical fiction novel about a violent and treacherous time where the great and powerful all seek the ultimate prize- the Crown of France.
I think things get particularly juicy in this installment of the Accursed Kings: it can feel a little slow at time, but keep in mind that Druon is also setting the reader up for the second half of the series… If you think Mahaut is vicious in this one, just wait for book 4!Marguerite of Bourgogne is dead, so Louis X can finally remarry.
It’s probably a good thing his reign was so short!“The Poisoned Crown” goes into very detailed historical explanations of the economy, legal systems, social hierarchies, so the reader can really feel the characters’ dilemmas and understand their actions better.
Las fichas de este juego de ajedrez se siguen moviendo. El rey Luis X contrae matrimonio con Clemencia de Hungría. Los nobles de Artois, bajo la conspiración de Roberto de Artois, crean la liga de los varones. Mahaut de Artois hace que su hija Juana sea perdonada y liberada por el príncipe Felipe. Las conspiraciones e intereses de Carlos de Valois siguen su marcha al interior de la corte. El rey Luis el Largo muere por causas de envenenamiento.¿Quién será el nuevo protector del reino o el nuevo rey?
4.5 estrellas: Excelente libro, la saga se pone cada vez mejor. Si les interesa conocer los libros que inspiraron las intrigas políticas que George R.R Martin presenta en Canción de Hielo y Fuego, entonces tienen que leer la saga de Los Reyes Malditos.
4,5 y se pone cada vez mejor, el final muy bueno!
This just didn't feel like a novel to me.
I read novels to be told a story.
This didn't feel like a story.
I didn't like being told to refer to the previous books or endnotes in a story, I didn't like reading page after page with no conversation between the characters, I didn't like the way the prose was diverted time after time explaining historical events hundreds of years in the future which made no difference to the story (such as it was), and above all this was just dry and dull to me.
De los tres errores que hacen detestable la mayoría de la novela histórica, Druon evita limpiamento los dos primeros: el anacronismo (caso por ejemplo de "Los Pilares de la Tierra" en la que Ken Follet manda a una familia de hippies californianos a hacer como que viven en el año mil) y la incapacidad para novelar (caso de José Luis Corral que escribe con la misma elegancia con la que lo hace un perito de la policía judicial) pero me temo que cae, y con algún estrépito en el tercero: la toma de partido que llega a distorsionar la historia.
Ni Louis le Hutin era el bobo solemne y zapatérico que dibuja Druon, ni el avance de las prerrogativas reales iniciado por Phillippe le Bel supuso el avance social que el autor asume.
They could also be better than average - good enough that I would feel bad giving them three stars.My books rated 3 stars range between not quite bad enough to give only 2 stars to and average.
Nothing to write home about.So when I rate this book 3 stars (thank you BookLikes for enabling me to make it 3.5), I feel like I may be giving a worse impression than I intend.
Guccio is impetuous and arrogant, but with the optimism of youth that makes him a sympathetic character.Looking forward to more plotting and adventure in the next book!
En el libro Los venenos de la corona (publicación original: Les poisons de la couronne, 1956), Clemencia de Hungría parte de Nápoles hacia Francia para casarse con su rey viudo, Luis X, en una singladura complicada que parece anticipar las derivas del matrimonio.
El rey, por su parte y en una muestra de su habitual comportamiento irreflexivo, comienza una guerra y trata de anular varias reformas realizadas por su padre sin pensar en las consecuencias sobre la debilitada tesorería del reino.
Tercer libro de la serie Los reyes malditos.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers?
Nu mai citisem de ceva timp un roman istoric, si nu stiu cum, mi-am adus aminte ca am toata seria Regii blestemati, dar nu am citit decat primele doua volume. L-am citit si pe al treilea - intr-o zi. Si tare mi-a placut.
Que de rebondissements dans ce 3e tome : intrigues, complots, mariages et meurtres... J'ai hâte de poursuivre cette série !
Junto con todo esto de la realeza que la verdad si bien ahora encuentro completamente descabellado jajaja en su momento lo encontraba fascinante!Una saga completamente recomendable!
Muy buena si buscas una novela histórica con la cual comenzar en el género!
The Poisoned Crown is the third installment of The Accursed Kings series which follows the shattered reigns of the House of Capet.
Each novel continues the saga of the previous installment and I would strongly encourage those interested to please read the previous two novels (The Iron King and The Strangled Queen) before attempting The Poisoned Crown.This novel's timeline is only 10 months, spanning from 1315 to 1316 and follows the chaotic reign of Louis X as he battles for his mark in history while being encircled by trials of authority, intelligence and faith.
EXCELENTE...
:)Tras el trono un variado grupo de jugadores juega el juego de tronos.
Los frutos de los actos e intrigas que leímos en el primer y segundo libro aún se están cosechando.
Aumenta el caos social, el reino se vuelve inestable, y acrecían los enemigos internos y externos.
Flandes parece un enemigo acérrimo y resistente.
La alta nobleza no se doblega dócilmente frente a la Corona.
El Artois sigue en disputa, al borde de la guerra civil y la ingobernabilidad.
Las pequeñas y grandes enemistades arruinan a quienquiera que se vea involucrado en ellas.
Et hop ! Troisième tome, deuxième roi expédié ! La farandole continue !On suit ici les quelques mois du règne de louis X qui suivent l'exécution de sa première femme. Ce volume est essentiellement centré sur les affaires d'Artois et le tout nouveau couple royal. Mahaut d'Artois et Robert continuent de se mesurer par alliés interposés.C'est toujours du même niveau : excellent, tant du point de vue de la langue que de l'intrigue, les personnages étant très haut en couleurs (mention spéciale à Spinello Tolomei)
Melhor que o primeiro, ligeiramente mais fraco que o segundo, mas acima de tudo épico.
I tried to get into this book but realised that I was avoiding reading it. This isn’t because the author isn’t very knowledgeable, he certainly is, but more because I didn’t find this book kept my interest as much as the other books did and I found myself becoming more and more confused with who all the characters are.This book is full of historical detail and accuracy and is very well written it’s just not for me at this time. I might come back to it in the future.
9/10
The king, easily swayed and prone to give up when things don't go his way and throwing a tantrum interrupted by fits of coughing when he is pressed or has a losing argument, is eventually convince by the other officials and Robert of Artois to give up on the costly campaign and return for the wedding and coronation instead.
Robert of Artis is planning to take back his land from his aunt Mahaut of Artois so that's why he advises the king not to continue.
Aussi intéressant que le vol. 1 , donc plus haletant que le vol. 2, le vol. 3 de la série Les Rois Maudits, Les poisons de la couronne, raconte la très brève épopée royale de Louis X avec toutes les intrigues de sorcelleries, d'envoûtement et de poison que le Moyen-Âge pouvait contenir. Historiquement divertissant pour une lecture légère d'été.

The questions around Louis' death is explored fully in this chapter.
The side story continues with the Lombard banker Guccio's quest to marry the woman he is in love with.
This story is almost more interesting than the main story line, since this one demonstrates the absurdity of the nobility to marry at their own level despite being flat broke and certainly never for love.
Louis is desperate to get his wife pregnant in order to leave an heir since he does not believe he is destined to live long and the question of succession is where he live this entry.
Another step forward in the tale of the Cursed Kings and everything is definitely going downhill for the French monarchy.
The new king, Louis, having done away with his adulterous wife, has taken a new, beautiful but moral one and actually changed from incompetent buffoon to holy idiot.
Those around him are manipulating the situation to suit their own end, chief amongst them, Mahaut and Robert in their struggle against each other to control Artois.
I don't want to give too much away but this really is an enjoyable series (even if the language does seem a bit dated).
[Première lecture en 2009] 3e tome de la majestueuse sage de Maurice Druon.Dans ce tome, nous observons les conséquences de la mort de Marguerite de Bourgogne sur le court règne de Louis X. D'ailleurs, le tome entier tourne autour des déboires conjugaux du Hutin, ce qui est étonnamment un sujet fascinant.Un tome plus court et moins intriguant que les autres, surtout dominé par la bonne reine Clémence et toujours plus de déboires entre Mahaut et son neveu Robert pour l'Artois. On sent déjà poindre l'esprit de Philippe de Poitiers et nous sentons qu'il dominera entièrement les prochains tomes.
La narrativa de Druon va en crescendo con cada libro que leo de esta saga. No puedo esperar poner mis ojos sobre ‘La Ley de Los Varones'. He de decir que este libro adictivo me ha hecho ver la historia (quizás historiografía) de un modo distinto, con un estilo particular me he prendado de sus personajes, de Francia y de su historia.
Ce livre me fait vibrer, j'avais oublié en m'arrêtant avec la Reine étranglée comment je pouvais me perdre dans un roman et manquer ma station de métro.Les personnages sont attachants, complexes... Bref j'adore et je ne résiste pas à lire le 4ème tome qui le suit.
I am, admittedly, a little addicted to this series. I know it's not amazing literature, but it's fantastic, fast-paced story telling. More than once, you will ask yourself, did this really happen? Then you will google it and realize it in fact did happen.
Cada vez hay mas intrigas y se ve como el poder corrompe a las personases un libro pesado pero muy interesante
I am so in love with this novel
