https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59962.Wolverine
Have you got that?
Okay I shall tell you again.
My name is Wolverine and I’m invincible.
I’m Wolverine.
That’s my name: Wolverine.
It’s my name, Wolverine that is.
I got terribly confused.
Perhaps it was just me?Then there is also the fact that every single Asian character seems to know martial arts.
Most of the characters had swords.
It’s like Japan only consists of these types of people according to the writers of this.
At points it’s like the Japanese culture was viewed through a pair of stereotyping goggles.
It’s like saying all English people drink tea or all American’s are fat.
Logan tries to get a crime lord off Yukio’s back without realizing that he’s still caught up in a scheme of Shingen’s.The legend goes that Chris Claremont and Frank Miller had a long car ride together when traveling to some event, and the two cooked up a story that would broaden the character of a mutant Canadian ex-secret agent turned X-Men with a bloodlust and a bad attitude into something more.
"I am Wolverine. I am the best there is at what i do."   This edition covers Wolverine's very first limited series and two Uncanny X-Men issues which cover the continuation of Wolverine's story arc.When Logan's sweetheart, Mariko Yashida ceases to reply to his letters, he takes the next flight out to japan to find her. *Soap opera fans gasp*Like every broken-hearted guy, Logan goes through the stages: Denial, confrontation, bargaining, getting beaten up, getting drunk, picking up fights, rebou
This edition covers Wolverine's very first limited series and two Uncanny X-Men issues which cover the continuation of Wolverine's story arc.When Logan's sweetheart, Mariko Yashida ceases to reply to his letters, he takes the next flight out to japan to find her.
The ending of first chapter introduces Yukio, a crazy assassin with THE MOST irritating catchphrase.Please stop.The final two chapters are Uncanny X-men issues which follows up the story, but ends up being anti-climatic.
This collects Wolverine #1-4 (the limited series from 1982) plus Uncanny X-Men #172-173 (I'm guessing from the same year).
In the first two thirds of the collection, the character focus is solely on Wolverine.
Instead, you have some ninja assassins, loads of intrigue and the villainous pairing of The Silver Samurai and Viper (and no, she's not a long-tongued mutant here either).This is a good example of why you should rather read the stories than watch the films.
The only reason I'm not giving it five stars is the X-Men issues - I can't help but wonder how this would have been if Claremont/Miller had completed it under the Wolverine banner...
I will definetly try his X-Men. The story was very modern, it didn't feel dated but then again as far as i know 80s is the foundation of modern comics so it is being still good is not a big surprise.Wolverine and his history with Japan is amazing.
(I love Japan) I would love to see more, like how he met with Mariko Yashida for the first time and all of his time in japan before the mini.
And ofcourse the guy who brain washed Mariko to not to marry Wolverine...
after the second time xD but i gave the book 5 stars never the less :D Wolverine fanboy reporting for duty :D
This is the 4-issue mini-series from 1982, perhaps the first solo issues Wolverine really had*, six years before Wolverine finally got his own on-going series.
The 4 issue series is very Wolverine focused (of course), but the two X-Men issues are less so.
That there are loose ends all over is just how it goes, but I will say that the two X-Men issues are weaker than the mini-series for that reason.
They just don't wrap up nicely like the mini-series does.*I didn't go back and read all the old X-Men books to see if he got solo stories there, but my memory says "not really."
3.0 to 3.5 stars. He's the best there is at what he does and what he does isn't very nice. This omnibus collects the excellent four issue mini series by Frank Miller. Recommended.
KILL BILL!  [image error]Or at least that is what I think of when I read this story since both main characters (Wolverine and the Bride) had to go to Japan to fight off their rivals.  Brief Introduction:  When I was looking through the comic book boards and I wanted to know what the best “Wolverine” story was, many fans declared that “Wolverine” which was written by Chris Claremont along with artwork by Frank Miller was considered the best “Wolverine” story out there. So, I went out and got thi
Chris Claremont has done an excellent job at writing this story from Wolverine’s point of view on the situation as we are able to see how Wolverine reacts to the situations he gets involved in Japan whether he is confessing his love for Mariko or fighting ninjas out to get him.
In the “Uncanny X-Men” issues of this graphic novel, Paul Smith did a brilliant job at detailing the fight scenes and the characters’ facial expressions and I loved the way that the colorings are much brighter in these issues than in Frank Miller’s artwork in the “Wolverine” issues.
I gave it 4 stars on my old review, and after letting it settle in for awhile, and then re-reading it, I'm convinced it's a 5 star comic.
It feels like one of those old Shaw Bros.
One small thing that I love in comic book artwork, is when someone has black hair, and they shade it with a gleaming blue.
It's a small thing, and you don't really see it anymore (except for Superman comics), but I love when they do that, haha.This is a fantastic comic, and a must-read for anyone breaking into the medium.
Meh. Frank Millers art was great in this as you could expect, but this comic was honestly just kinda boring
This collection contains the original Wolverine series, released in late 1982, along with two follow-up issues of the Uncanny X-Men. It was the inspiration behind the 2013 movie The Wolverine, which motivated me to pick it up.
The artwork was strong and supplemented the story well.
If the collection contained just the four issues published in the original Wolverine series, I would probably bump this up to four stars.
However the two Uncanny X-Men issues, while relevant to the plot, were not quite as strong and were enough to drop this a half-star for me.
His resume includes Sin City, 300, some of the most notable Batman comics in recent memory, and a long run on Daredevil.
And let me tell you, it holds up a lot better than I expected from a comic run circa 1982.
It is set in Japan, with two intriguing and mysterious women instigating Wolverine's actions, and for very different reasons.
It's really perfect for his character, as a loner outsider wherever he wanders.The collection features not only Wolverine #1-#4, but also appends Uncanny X-Men #172-#173, where Storm, Rogue and the other X-Men get mixed up in the action when they travel to Japan for Wolverine's wedding.
I'd give it 5 stars if not for the crappy ending (and maybe Rogue's dialog).
Wolverine falls in love with Mariko, daughter of a Yakuza king.
Trouble is Wolverine is not worthy (this is the theme).
It's like Claremont didn't know how to end this epic or it was a cheap way to keep the story going in another issue (which one I don't know but I'd like to!).
He controls (?) or actually is (think about that for a second) Wolfie's girlfriend Mariko and he makes her NOT marry Wolverine in the very end.
(hide spoiler)] Perfect right until the end.
So thanks to Claremont (and Miller) for redeeming my faith in 80s Wolverine, mostly.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
That's the problem with having a character with a super-healing ability and an unbreakable skeleton: there's a lot of "Boy, it's a good thing I'm invulnerable, or that would have killed me!" The other thing I never understand about these stories is why Wolverine can take on 20 trained Hand assassins but a single old guy with a sword almost kills him.
I know Frank Miller is supposed to be some kind of artistic genius (and I liked the minimalist style he applied to Daredevil and Bat Man: Year One), but his drawings here seem rushed and amateurish.
You know Logan can't die so there's no tension, it's just waiting until he takes out whoever he's fighting.Frank Miller's art in the first 4 books is really good, and he provides at least one iconic image of Wolverine sans mask grinning and popping his claws.
readers didn't ask for much did they?)."Wolverine" is a pretty tedious read for anyone who's read this character's other books.
There's the detail on Logan's true love Mariko but other than that it's non-essential reading for general readers of comics.
/racismThe breakdown:-Take a shot every time Logan compares himself to just about any animal or person, only better.
Yawn.-Take a shot for bad Romanization of Japanese words.-Take a shot every time a Japanese character speaks in nothing but stereotypes.
-Take a shot for typing out any accent!-Take a shot for the hilarity of seeing the word "Wolverine-chan" in print.I guarantee a good time if your standards aren't too literary.
If they are, follow my instructions above and a good time will be had anyway.
The art and writing immerse us in this part of Logan/Wolverine's life that we don't always get to see and its a great story.
I actually want to read the comics that come after (if they exist) showing the wedding.Now for the bad.
Unfortunately its a pretty persistent flaw that drags the rating toward the middle and away from the excellent.I bought this book from a brick and mortar book store, and I advise you to support them and do the same.
Ideally, you should buy this from a comic store.
Over the years I guess it was easy to become less and less enchanted with Wolverine as the stories became more convoluted.
With the help of Frank Miller, this four issue mini became the springboard for a torrid love affair with Wolverine and the comic-reading world.
It's a fantastic story, told with a little too much exposition (which has always been Claremont's problem), which runs in the hardboiled vein, with plenty of crime, femme fatales, seedy underworld dealings, bars and alleys.
It's a love story that helps to endear us to Wolverine, and a flurry of fists that gives us the action we've gotten used to in him.
Wolverine in modern Japan fighting Ninjas, kicking ass and taking names.
In between he drinks beer, feels sorry for himself(but gets over all that wussy cry baby garbage pretty quickly) and talks like a bad imitation of Mike Hammer.
That's pretty much it.
It's not exactly deep material, but it works.
I've owned my copies since 1987.
Not a bad way to spend a little time.That is my entire review for let us be honest - it's a comicbook.
Exactly how much can one say about a violent fantasy story written for the young and young at heart?
Tengo muy recientes las (magníficas) series de Mark Millar, pero las dos obras mayores de Lobezno estaban pidiendo una relectura.
Una obra creada por dos colosos en su época de esplendor.
Lobezno pasa en este cómic a ser para siempre Logan, un ser humano complejo, y, penosas etapas futuras aparte, jamás volverá a ser visto como un descerebrado pendenciero o un animal.
Esta obra aporta alma al personaje desarrollando una trama de mafiosos japoneses sencilla, como lo es el dibujo de Frank Miller, maravillosamente claro, sabedor de que el enmarañamiento siempre va en contra de la narrativa.
Una delicia.
4.5/5So, a japanese noir about Logan!
Count me in!
I wonder if Claremont took some advice from Frank Miller, while writing this story, tho - because FRANK VIBE IS STRONG WITH THIS ONE.
Despite some obvious missteps (you know, some plot points just didn't survive the test of time) it is a very, I repeat, very strong story with a glorious final battle.
An obvious must-read for every Marvel neophite (because old fans read it already, duh)=====================================Классика от Клэрмонта и Миллера, которую все, кому надо уже прочитали, один я дурак остался.
Очень крутой нуар-нарратив от Логана, который ВИДЕЛ НЕКОТОРОЕ ДЕРЬМО, и вообще приехал за любимой женщиной в страну Sony.
Старая, но крутая история про настоящий японский дух, который живет не в соевом соусе и роллах, а в самурайских традициях и понятиях о чести и долге. Ну и Россомаха как всегда - "Горбун отверженный с проклятьем на челе - Я никогда не буду счастлив на земле". Всех убью поэтому, надоели вы мне
At first I reaaaaally didn't like the colouring, but then I realized it was written in the 80's and it grew on me ;)Storywise it certainly was a win! Only the narrative felt too old (of course) and bit of a hassle to read at times...but all in all a strong album and a must read for the Wolverine fans
Again, it feels a little like these pages could be Daredevil offcuts but even so nearly every one of them is jaw-dropping to look at, with Miller's work drawing you through the story swiftly and engagingly.
Characters feel menacing in the way they are painted, Miller never strikes for realism, everything is a hyper real symbol that leaps out and across the page in striking ways.Whether you like X-Men or Wolverine generally, read this if you like Frank Miller.
I suppose, at the time of its publication, Chris Claremont's Wolverine was a dive deep into uncharted territory: Wolverine was previously a mysterious figure, and this was, so I gather, the first look at the motivations of the character...so, at the time it was probably quite provocative and illuminating.However, it doesn't really age well.
Wolverine's ham-handed musings of "I do bad things...i'm as tough as they come" are cringe-inducing...and coupled with this early-style Frank Miller artwork that just seems awkward (in a "not yet developed his signature style and is still kind of stuck in a Neal Adams uncanny valley" kind of way), it's a fairly mediocre read.
This was my first comic foray into anything X-Men related.
The story was not uber fantastical, it just felt like you were dropped into this part of Logan's life where he went to Japan chasing after his lady love and some shit went down.
I understand at the time it was written, however, that it was a big deal to have so much character time.
Nowadays it doesn't feel so unique.
That being said, there are a few frames in it that I really enjoyed.
I liked the old school feel to it too, especially in the age of digitally drawn/painted comics.
Chris Claremont ai testi e Frank Miller ai disegni. Il buon vecchio Frank, non l'ombra del disegnatore che è diventato negli ultimi lustri. Entrambi sulla prima mini di Wolverine, personaggio portato al successo finalmente in avventure solitarie. E quali avventure. A distanza di quasi 25 anni dalla prima lettura questa storia riesce ancora a prendermi molto. Molto iconica, come la miglior produzione di quei meravigliosi anni '80.
One of the all time great Wolverine stories. This is the one that pushed him into the super star category.It's basically a really cool kung-fu movie, a bit heavy handed with the themes of 'honor', but makes up for it with tons of cool ninja action.One of marvel's very first mini-series and one of the big stories from before Wolverine became a annoying character that got over used.
Nice mini series for this X-Men character. Good story and art. This was the first spin off Wolverine story i read and it still today defines the character to me. Very Recommended
That first issue starts out strong, though, with an opening line as iconic as "The man in black fled across the desert, and the gunslinger followed": "I'm the best there is at what I do, but what I do best isn't very nice."From there, we follow Logan hunting a bear that's been left for dead, but has instead gone on its own killing rampage.
At its time, it might have been a little progressive; it seems like Claremont did some research into Japanese culture instead of just populating the story with offensive stererotypes, and having a female assassin might have bucked some trends at the time.
