https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56674.Empire_of_the_Sun
The article I read was an obituary for Tsutomu Yamaguchi, the last surviving nijuuhibakusha.
Young Jim Ballard was one of many Westerners who were interned after the Japanese took Shanghai.
Nothing to get excited about, after the first few months.The war is going badly for the Japanese, and it's becoming clear that they will lose.
One day, the inmates are told that they are going on a long march to a different location.
The atom-bomb will make Japan surrender now, not months in the future, and he'll get out.After this, Ballard always has warm, fuzzy feelings for nuclear weapons.
His observations are spot on—he quickly becomes useful to many out on the war fields; he notices that, sometimes, being under the dragon’s wing is precisely the tactic needed to survive; he thinks in tragic terms, digesting the horror for us amply, becoming a truly unforgettable character through it all.
Like “Suite Francoise”’s Irene Nemirovsky, Ballard’s own personal involvement in WWII embellishes & fulfills the authentic aspect of the book.
If they had not survived the war (although, tragically, Nemirovsky did not), we would not have their fine FINE work.And this would not be a J.
A gem of a memoir. Richer than Spielberg's film (though he did an excellent job with the material). Mesmerizing from start to finish.
This was good, but I don't think I'll read it again.
On the other hand, that particular feeling does not say that this was a mediocre book.
But that personal gut reaction is what I tend to use for star ratings - four stars means I would like to or wouldn't mind reading it again.
Five stars are books I feel the need to own.
So this is a three star review, but it is probably a better book than that.Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the recent changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
G. Ballard is a genius) and to what he had to undergo during his 3-year stay as a child in Lunghua Concentration Camp in Shanghai during WWII.
Yes, this novel about Ballard as an 11 year old boy, a son of a wealthy British businessman in Shanghai, who got separated from his parents and had to endure 3 years surviving all by himself in various camps.What makes this quite different from the war stories seen in a child’s perspective is Ballard’s prose.
Jim did not die even if he stayed 3 years in Lunghua.
'Empire of the Sun' is by far the best war book I have read.
I find most war fiction embarrassing and trite.However, while 'Empire of the Sun' could be classed as a memoir, the author freely admits that his experiences are not exactly the same as young Jim, the protagonist of this tale.
And despite what Hollywood would make you think, you do not cheer on the end of the war.And I think that is one of the big messages of the book.
Throughout the book Jim wants the Japanese to win the war and does not see how they can lose it because they have the bravest soldiers in his opinion.

And this is why, I think, Ballard leaves out the bulk of the period when Jim is in the POW camp: that is the period when there is relative order and prosperity.
It is only in the period before the imposition of order and authority and after it's disappearance that staying alive is less a statement than a question.
Go figure.So, now, 20 some odd years later, I’m reading this book and trying to use my adultified brain to figure out what exactly mesmerized Chuck so.
There is a scene, towards the end, the war is over, he’s trying to get back to Shanghai to find his parents but he happens across a Japanese pilot that had offered him a mango days before.
Then I imagine this 15 year old boy playing Christ, trying to raise the souls of all the people, family, that he had watched perish… wow.
This book, first published in 1984, is about a young boy's life in the Lunghua camp, an internment base set up by the Japanese to accommodate American, British, and other European civilians during World War II.
Eventually, after months of roaming the streets, he is interned, initially at a detention centre near Shanghai and then at Lunghua, where he will stay till the end of the war.Though based on J.G. Ballard's true experiences as an internee in the camp, the book is not an autobiography but a fictionalised account of the events.
Young Jim adapts immediately, and that's the thing about people according to Ballard, who's always written about "whether we are much different people from the civilized beings we imagine ourselves to be." (Well, that and carfucking.) Ballard is unsentimental about Jim, who unsettles everyone around him just by how quickly he acquiesces to the new reality.
Jim shrugs civilization off so easily that everyone else gets vertigo.Here's a startling detail about this book: the major thing Ballard changed from his own life was that he wrote his parents out of it.
This was my second reading of 'Empire of the Sun' as the first time was many years ago, I only remember it being near perfection, and had everything I look for in a novel.
Considering some of Ballard's other works were utopian, futuristic and darkly disturbing in nature, this is certainly his most humane story and represents a turbulent time in China's history that doesn't get much of a look in in regards to literature.
Not your average coming-of-age story, as the world starts to get to grips with the horrors of war.
Will no doubt read again in time.
La guerra entra prepotente nella sua vita di undicenne e niente sarà come prima.C’era una volta e ci fu.La storia del piccolo Jim è la storia di chi scrive e trova il coraggio di rivangare un passato che dal mondo ovattato colonialista lo aveva catapultato nella dimensione di bestialità, della legge del più forte e del più furbo.
Don't let the Spielberg connection turn you off. This is a devastating slow burn of a book, one that I picked up fairly randomly, and have been reeling from ever since. The prose is scrupulously plain, but the psychological detail as strange and transporting as anything more self-consciously lyrical. It chronicles the author's childhood experiences as a prisoner-of-war in WWII Japan, but this isn't a typical novel-memoir; there's a traumatized shimmer to the third-person narration (there's no "I" here; just "Jim") and the lack of sentiment is unnerving and, strange to say, honorable. I really loved this book.
With a childhood like this, it's easy to see why Ballard became the ultimate novelist of alienation, perversity and despair. The matter-of-factness regarding death, starvation and nuclear bombs is often discombobulating – especially when Jim leaves long-term friends behind to die with no flicker of emotion – but provides a unique psychological insight into WWII that few wartime novels have ever achieved.An uncompromising classic.
I used to think of Ballard as an SF author - this novel made it clear to me how mistaken I was. This is the story of a British boy, Jim, separated from his parents at the age of 10 and interned in a POW camp in Shanghai during the Second World War. At the end of the war, after the nuclear attack on Japan, the world is a shambles: and Jim learns that staying alive is a task in itself. The story is cheerless and grim, but oddly compelling in its portrayal of humanity on the edge.
253. Empire of the Sun, J.G. Ballardامپراطوری خورشید - جی.جی. بالارد (چشمه) ادبیاتجنگ واقعی آن چيزهايی بود که خودش از اشغال چين به دست ژاپنیها در ۱۹۳۷ ديده بود؛ جنگ واقعی رزمگاههای قديمی «هونگجائو» و «لونگهوا» بود که: هر بهار استخوان مردگان دوباره در شاليزارها سبز میشدند، و به سطح آب میآمدند؛ جنگ واقعی هزاران پناهندهی چينی بود، که انبوه انبوه در جانپناههای چوبی «پوتونگ» از وبا میمردند؛ جنگ واقعی سرهای غرقه به خون سربازان کمونيست بود که در سراسر بند چينیها، بر سرِ نيزه زده بودند. در جنگ واقعی کسی

People treat this as a memoir. It isn't and Ballard made it clear it was fiction. The glorification, almost fetishism of Japanese officers was very hurtful for my family who (like Peter Wyngarde the actor) were kids there without their parents. Ballard had his family. The fact he chose not to acknowledge that is... odd.
Everything I need to know in life I learned from Empire of the Sun.
The map at the front of the book is crap and doesn't include many of the locations.I thought that the action was confusing at times.
Jim is relentlessly curious and naive at the start of the book, and the same at the end.
His relationships didn’t seem to change and he never got around to asking big questions.This isn't just Ballard, obviously ...
"Am I smuggling a mouldy sweet potato in my pocket or am I just pleased to see you?" Where are the pockets in these people's trousers?I liked that Basie was really camp, that was a bit of a surprise.
Despite being a big Ballard fan, I'd never actually read this until now.
The fuzzy reason I gave myself was that this was the mainstream book that Spielberg adapted, and so didn't chime in with the Ballard I generally deal with.
However I’m glad I put my absurd prejudices aside, as this is brilliant!Even though Ballard is dealing with the past rather than future, he does evoke this other world – which to Western eyes at least – is completely alien.
This is never less than pure Ballard.
A biographical novel that deals with Ballard's time in Japanese internment camps during WWII, told with an unusual slant: The narrator almost seems to thrive and looks up to his captors as the only ones who can protect him.
"Yet only part of his mind would leave Shaghai.
The rest would remain there forever, returning on the tide like the coffins launched from the funeral piers at Nantao." Hard to believe this was ever a Spielberg movie, but I'm planning to check that out shortly.
کتاب خیلی خوبی خست . در حقیقت در نوع خودش شاهکاره ، اما ایکاش وقتی بچه تر بودم حونده بودمش . در کل اثر در مورد جنگ چین و ژاپن هست و باید معترف شم که ژاپنی ها به حد زیادی بعد از جنگ دوم جهانی آدمای متمدن و آرومی شدن . شاید اگر در اون جنگ شکست نمی حوردن امروز با سیطره ی جهانی ژاپن مواجه بودیم
Accanto a quello cinese c’è un altro popolo protagonista del romanzo, quello giapponese, dal destino diverso, conquistatore della Cina nella guerra del 1937, le cui idee di dominio sul Pacifico tramontano definitivamente con l’evento terribile delle bombe atomiche su Hiroshima e Nagasaki, che agli occhi del disperato Jim sono una inspiegabile e agghiacciante luce bianca senza suono che illumina la notte di Lunghua.
Empire of The Sun is not only his best novel but goes a long way to explain the author's somewhat schizoid style of writing.
The autobiographical novel is based on his internment as a child in a Japanese prisoner of war camp in China during World War II.
For Ballard, the time was both harrowing and "fun", a word he used in interviews to describe his actual internment.
He was simply a child making the best of a bad situation.
G. Ballard, this is his most accessible work and the best place to start.
Oh, Steven Spielberg, how dare you kill this wonderful book's plot with a blunt instrument, burn it, trample it and then leave it to be raped by a horde of Cossacks, how?!
Here's one book which was not for you to bring to the silver screen.
Unlike the film, this book managed to properly portray Jim's character, his experiences and to capture, complete and perfect, the lives of English citizens trapped behind Japanese lines in China.
It's wonderfully written, the horrors laced gently with the experiences of a growing boy and the world as seen through his still innocent eyes.
It's a wonderful read, a great book and I highly recommend it.
"I learned a new word today - 'atom bomb'"If there had been no hostilities, the entirely disturbing boy, Jim, would have been dubbed with many mental diagnoses of the kind that are only spoken of under heavy initial letters; as events unfolded his a-social traits made him for the most, effective as a survivor.
Once Jim has become separated from his parents I found it pretty gripping; it's an account of human experience it's hard not to find interesting.
This separation from his parents is the biggest difference between the book and Ballard's own experience; he said if the parents were there it would be hard for readers to understand how much it didn't matter that they were there.
There's no talking about death in the way it happens in a situation like this without the idea that human life has paramount value receding.
Jim finds it impossible to process the idea that the war is over, when it's over, and the book makes it clear that "over" is not a simple thing.
Thinking turned for idle fancy to centering on trade.
Not just the Americans using Jim, but in turn how Jim has no qualms exploiting those who take pity on him.
His obsession with seeing souls escape, his delusion he could return souls to the living if he performed cargo cult-like imitations of the doctor, and his general musings concerning the nature free of the restraining trappings of christianity made it seem far more appealing in its perversity.
It's casual nature in a world filled with death and waiting death.What wonders is, what did he hold back from his experiences to tone down the novel?
would classify Empire of the Sun as an adventure novel about a boy’s life during the Japanese occupation of Shanghai in WWII.The book is graphic and spares no details about how people die, but it wasn’t graphic to the point where I had to put it down.
There are parts in the book which had me on the edge of my seat because I was sure the boy was about to die, but knew that it couldn’t happen logically since it’s a biography.Ballard not only provides an exciting adventure story, but also great insight into the human condition.
