https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457762.Sylvester_and_the_Magic_Pebble
I didn't know exactly what that meant at the time, but I did know at that age that if you were awarded something gold that it meant it was really good.I asked my parents if I could order it through my kindergarten class book club, but they declined at the time.
I also related to his panic when faced with something fearsome, and panicking into a rash decision at the time (to turn himself into a stone.) I was really depressed during the middle part of the book when Sylvester's parents were searching in vain for him, and the help his neighbors offered.
As a five year old I thought the pigs were helpful in their search for the missing Sylvester.
Also, this was William Steig’s first controversial book due to the image of the police being portrayed as pigs, even though I do not think that it is an issue because all the characters are animals, but it depends on how you view this issue.
Parents should reassure their children about the importance of staying safe if they wonder out into an unknown area.“Sylvester and the Magic Pebble” is William Steig’s milestone children’s book as it discusses the love that Mr. and Mrs. Duncan have for their child, Sylvester, when he turns up missing and (view spoiler)[how the spell of the magic pebble is broken when Mr. and Mrs. Duncan wished for their child’s return.
I have never been all that into anthropomorphic animal characters (even cute and lovable donkeys like Sylvester and his family), and furthermore, while as an adult I can wholly understand the morale and messages behind Sylvester's sojourn as a rock, namely that one should be careful for what one wishes, the fact that Sylvester simply disappears, that even the police are dumbfounded and his poor mother and father, of course, both horrified and devastated, would have quite majorly troubled me, would have much hurt my psyche as a child (and even as an adult, Sylvester's disappearance and the sadness this causes his mother and father, especially since even the happy ending is really for all intents and purposes purely arbitrary and lucky, has the tendency to bring tears to my eyes, and even instil a bit of fear and consternation in my heart).
My eight-year-old granddaughter read this to me this weekend. It's one of her favorites from my collection of our children's books. I don't remember reading it as a child, but we have the 1969 paperback version, so it may have been one of my brothers' or sisters' favorites. It's a good story about appreciating family with a bit of magic.I've lost count how many times we've read this one so it's definitely a keeper if she chooses to read it on her own.
Well, I guess the moral of this one is to be very careful what you wish for.
Sylvester is a donkey who finds a magic pebble, and in order to escape a dangerous situation he wishes he was a rock, so he becomes a rock, and stays a rock, because he has to be holding the pebble for his wishes to come true and, of course, there’s no way for a rock to hold a pebble.
So, there’s an awful consequence to his wish.
I did care about Sylvester and his parents and what they go through.
This was my favorite read of the day by far.
Something I picked up because it's a Caldecott award winner.
Although the pictures were cute, I didn't necessarily think that they should have been awarded the Caldecott.
But the story more than made up for it.
Perhaps, growing up with Richard Scary books read to me, I'm spoiled when it comes to animals dressed up as people telling stories.
In any case, still a wonderful read.
Not something I'd recommend for preschoolers, as my 2 yr old twins, almost 3, weren't at all interested, but my 5 yr old and I were enchanted.
I didn't remember much about this story, though the illustrations are familiar.
I was surprised how sad and aching the story is, on the whole; perhaps it's just that I'm reading it now as a parent and it's so very chilling to think of what Sylvester's parents are going through.
(And poor Sylvester as a rock that whole time!
It's probably equally chilling to read it as a child--the thought of being separated from your parents all that time!) The ending is so heartwarming and I love the message, though.(As I understand it, the book was banned because the police are portrayed as pigs; an unfortunate casting choice by Steig, to be sure.)
This was great, although I was a little disturbed as a child by how long poor Sylvester is stuck as a rock, and how beyond help he is. But all's well that ends well!I still prefer The Amazing Bone, though.
this book is probably the single largest influence on my own writing.strange, but true.never far from my mind.
Sylvester loves collecting pebbles, especially pretty ones.
And then one day he finds a magical one, one that grants wishes!
he wishes himself into a rock.
:P But no a rock seemed the best thing.I sure didn't expect that turn though.
With the whole title I thought the book would be about Sylvester wishing for everything in life, but instead it is about him being a rock and unable to turn back.
I know, I know, this is a kid's book and the pebble is magical, but really, with all the snow, wind and animals, that wouldn't be possible at all.
On the third pass we talked about how it would feel to be a stone, and to have your sad parents sit on you while having a picnic, and how special it would be to have a magic pebble, and how you have to be careful with magic powers.After an hour of this my brain was utterly exhausted, and my grandson was that much wiser.What a powerful story, to do all this.
And it all was initiated by my grandson: he chose the book, he asked the questions, he asked for the repeat readings.
wow, by all means read it with a kid who is ready.
My son earns pebbles for making good choices and we display his earned good choice pebbles in a pretty glass bowl in the kitchen for everyone to see...so, a book about a magic pebble was fun for him because he had a personal connection :).Beautiful watercolor illustrations. Meaningful story about what matters most in life, family. A must read for all!
I wonder what age child Steig was targeting? I've only read this with kids over age 9. This is a clever way to emphasize that sometimes you don't really want what you wish for.
William Steig was a good painter and, in my judgment, a better writer.
I don't love this particular book like I love Steig's  Amos and Boris, but it's still quite good.
My favorite aspects of Steig's writing are his love of the long sentence, his often mellifluous prose, and his use of advanced vocabulary--all of which issue from his fundamental judgment that children ought to be taken seriously.
There is a merriment to his writing, to be sure, but it is "that kind (and it is, in fact, the merriest kind) which exists between people who have, from the outset, taken each other seriously" (C.S. Lewis).
This year I'm reading a few picture books that have been challenged for their content, this one apparently because the police are portrayed as pigs.
That seems pretty innocuous or at best a gentle, lazy jab in a gentle, lazy story.I'm torn in deciding if this story is a simple variation on The Monkey's Paw, a fable about the grief of parents' who have lost a child and hope to one day be reunited in the afterlife, or a Christian allegory with miracles, Roman lions, and a spring resurrection.
I mostly settle on too silly to matter and absolutely too silly to take offense.
"Art, including juvenile literature, has the power to make any spot on earth the living center of the universe; and unlike science, which often gives us the illusion of understanding things we really do not understand, it helps us to know life in a way that still keeps before us the mystery of things.
It enhances the sense of wonder.
And wonder is respect for life.
Art also stimulates the adventurousness and the playfulness that keep us moving in a lively way and that leads to useful discovery."From William Steig's acceptance speech for the Caldecott Award he won for this book.
I found this book terrifying as a child. It is still pretty darn creepy.
It makes me so anxious that I either want to stop reading, or skip quickly ahead to the (hopefully) happy ending.
This is probably why I have never liked Sylvester and the Magic Pebble.
There’s nothing wrong with the story - it’s well-told, well-illustrated, and has an important moral.
I just can’t handle the pain the parents face when they think their beloved Sylvester has gone missing, and it makes me nuts that the magic pebble is right there, and there’s nothing I can do to alert them!
Read at Pajama Story Time on 6/13/12: http://storytimesecrets.blogspot.com/...
1970 Caldecott Winner. This book was a childhood favorite of mine. I don't know if it is because it won the Caldecott in the year I was born, or because it was a story that dealt with a topic that I was mostly unfamiliar with. The grief that Sylvester's family must have felt stayed with me my whole life. Be careful what you wish for!
This story opens with Sylvester sitting at a table looking over his beloved pebble collection.
One day Sylvester stumbles upon a magic pebble that makes wishes come true.
Excited to share it with his family, Sylvester hurries home to show his mother and father.
On the way he runs into a scary lion and makes a wish he will soon regret.
The magical powers come from the pebble that Sylvester finds and that pebble brings about the conflict in the story.
The story takes place in the countryside where the animals live and work together to search for Sylvester.
How does an innocent animal story of a donkey who finds a magic pebble that grants his wishes, end up on a challenged book list?
Interestingly enough, the next door neighbor pig, dressed in pajamas, who helps to look for Sylvester is never mentioned in the challenge.
Ultimately, this is a gentle story of a donkey who mistakenly makes a wish that turns him into a rock and how his loving and distraught parents, manage to break the spell, and find their beloved Sylvester.
The story ends in hugs and kisses and the love of good family.
The pigs dressed in uniforms will not be upsetting to them.
The first time I ever read this book, almost 40 years ago now, I had no idea that the copy I read was missing the very last page.
So, for the longest time I thought the book ended when Sylvester turned back into a donkey.
For years, I thought that the book had the oddest abrupt ending.
Then, one day, I was perusing a new copy of the book that had been ordered, and lo and behold, there were two more pages to the story!
I was glad that there was a bit more denouement to the story than I had realized.
A classic story for children. Be careful what you wish for! I've read this one over and over to our children and we really like this tale. The illustrations are nicely detailed and the story is entertaining in a cautionary way.This book was selected as one of the books for the July 2015 - Quarterly Caldecott discussion at the Picture-Book Club in the Children's Books Group here at Goodreads.
Sylvester the donkey spends his time finding pebbles.
One day he finds a magic pebble that grants all of his wishes.
The pebble even saves him from being eaten by a lion!
Sylvester decided to turn himself into a rock in efforts to camouflage himself.
Once he truns himslef into a rock, he can not transform himself back into a horse.
He disappears for seasons.
One spring day, his parents find him and help him to transform back into a donkey.
This is a cute story for primary grades.
It is an excellent story for a read aloud.
1970 Caldecott winner. The Caldecott Medal winner from my birth year, and a top-rate effort from the creator of Shrek. Sylvester's a cautionary tale about wishing yourself into rock-ness. It's sweet, and did I mention it's from my birth year? William Stieg's a genuine treasure. Read all his books. Many are weird. All are interesting.
So this book satisfied the requirement for a Banned children book in addition to being a Caldecott Award winner in 1970..loved love this book..both cute and sad—took me right back to my childhood as I remember this curious donkey who finds an amazing pebble and makes one wish too many.....
So okay---happy little Duncan family is relaxing and enjoying each other when Sylvester goes off in search of pebbles to add to his collection of unique rocks when he finds one he has never seen—shiny and red and marble shaped and as he holds it and he wishes for rain to start and stop and it happens that he realizes he is holding a magic pebble.
He soon discovered that when he held the pebble and made a wish, the wish would come true!
But once he was a rock, he couldn’t hold the red pebble to wish himself back to normal.
His parents became worried when he didn’t come home that night and set out to search for Sylvester along with friends.
One day, his parents were walking through the park and sat down on a rock, which was their son.
His father found the pebble on the ground and put it on top of the rock.
Sylvester wished he was back to himself and it came true!
The reason that many people were not happy with this story and found it to be controversial is because the policeman in the story are pigs.
The whole story is made with animal characters, but people find it disrespectful because the policemen are pigs.
Overall, I see why people might not agree with this and think that it is disrespectful.
I agree that they maybe could have chosen another animal to play the policemen, because it is known that people call policemen pigs in a derogatory manner.
He asked for it to rain again, but this time without the pebble in hand and nothing happened.
Sylvester could not wait to show his parents and as he was walking through Strawberry Hill he was so stunned by a lion he saw that he wished to be turned into a rock.
One day his parents came to Strawberry Hill for a picnic and saw the pebble which made them think of Sylvester.
They placed the pebble on the rock and Sylvester was able to wish himself back into a donkey.
Sylvester, a donkey, is the lovable, main character.
When I first read this book, I actually thought to myself that this would make children really sad as they read it.
It even made me sad and I knew how it was going to end.
As I reread the book, I realized that it was more silly and enjoyable than it was sad.
Children would love this book because of how unrealistic it is.
The donkey family end up with a magic pebble that grants them everything they could possibly want, however, they realize that as long as they have each other, they don't need the magic pebble.
