https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17690.The_Trial
In those moments I would try desperately to create a sturdy mental foothold from which to explore Kafka’s next idea.
There were chunks of the book that I found slow and plodding, probably because I was stuck at the base of Mount Ignorance and didn’t absorb the ideas Kafka was dishing.
Still, it did make for some dry reading time as Kafka’s writing is not ear-pleasing enough that you can simply enjoy the prose.
Thus, for the moment, and given my imperfect understanding of all that Kafka had to say in this brilliant novel, I am going to say 4 stars.
Kafka’s nightmarish vision is the heartbeat of our own existence, chronicling the frustrations of futility when applying logic to the reality of the absurd, yet factual, nature of life.Someone must have slandered Josef K., for one morning, without having done anything wrong, he was arrested.This memorable opening line is the perfect establishing shot for Kafka’s, and Joseph K.’s, world.
‘Neither her youth nor her deformity had prevented her early corruption.’ These girls, we are told, also belong to the court, another place where the persona is depicted more like beast than man, preying on those around them with their lusts.
But, you see, those three words strung together convey the sense of otherworldliness, some diabolical satire that's made a nightmare of a reality that's usually pretty good about behaving itself.
There's no phantasmagorical twisting of the entire face of reality.
"I see," said K., nodding, "these books are probably law books, and it is an essential part of the justice dispensed here that you should be condemned not only in innocence but also in ignorance." "That must be it," said the woman, who had not quite understood him.
Δηλώνει αθώος,αλλά κατά την εξέλιξη της ιστορίας παρασύρεται μοιρολατρικά απο την συνείδηση του και τα διαφορά γεγονότα και τελικώς αποδέχεται την ενοχή του χωρίς -μεταφορικά- να γνωρίζει αυτό για το οποίο κατηγορείται.
Ουσιαστικά το ξέρει πως είναι ένοχος,έτσι τον έπεισε η υποσυνείδητη διαταραχή του.
Όλο το βιβλίο της "δίκης" είναι μια υπαρξιακή αναζήτηση χωρίς ουσιαστικό αποτέλεσμα.
Όλοι γύρω απο τον Γιόζεφ είναι πάντα τυπικοί, ξένοι,επίφοβοι,άπονοι, μυστηριώδεις και κακόβουλοι.
Δεν αισθάνεται την οικειότητα και τη θαλπωρή των συγγενών.
Ένας σκουπιδότοπος υπάρξεων που δεν θα μπορέσουν ποτέ να συναισθανθούν,να συμπονέσουν, να νιώσουν, να αγαπήσουν με την ψυχή τους.
The events are completely unexplainable and unfathomable; thus, Kafka’s trial will stay with the me for the rest of my life, as I ponder this bizarre novel again, and again.
I like to think a little bit of Kafka comes through here.
Its strange narrative resembles a dream; its events are pointless and impenetrable like a nightmare that stays with you forever.
Indeed, this book will never be forgotten by those that have read it, as the unanswered questions will haunt for the rest of their days.
تخيل معي للحظة أن ماكس برود -ناشر كتب كافكا قد قام بحرق جميع كتبه بناءً على وصيتههل كان ممكنًا لعالم القراء تخيل مكتبة كونية لا تحوي خلاصة الكافاكاوية بها ؟إن طلب كافكا المجنون ببساطة يستكمل رحلته الحياتية وفلسفته الخاصة كما يليق بها كروح عدمية وما فعله ماكس برود – ليرقد في سلام أينما كان هو ما يليق بكاتب عظيم وروح شفافة كان ليخلو عالم الأدب منها إن نفذ تلك الوصية ;;;;;;;; ذهب القفص يبحث عن عصفور!ـــــــــــــــ  تتناول الرواية الشهيرة مشكلة السلطة العلياوقد أولها الكثيرون إلى الأب الذي عانى منه
تتناول الرواية الشهيرة مشكلة السلطة العلياوقد أولها الكثيرون إلى الأب الذي عانى منه ومعه البائس فرانز لآخر نفسكان كافكا ينظر إلى نفسه من خلال عيني أبيه كما في العلاقة التي بين السيد والعبدكافكا لا يتمرد في الحقيقة ‏إنه يختبئ ويخاف ويكره ويفرز أوجاعه أدبًا عجيب التكوين‏لقد أوصله هذا الخوف –بجانب أسباب أخرى إلى تحقير للذات مستمر ومتناميوكل مرة كانت هناك حادثة مع السلطة يجعل كافكا من نفسه المخطئ لا غيره‏‏-يظهر ذلك بوضوح في المسخ;;;;;;;;تبدو المدينة غائمة ،،باردةغارقة في الضباب والكآبةيستيقظ (ك) ليجد رجالًا غرباء يدورون حولهلقد قبض عليكلماذا؟لا أحد يجيبوبرغم أن ك يعترض إلا أنه يسايرهمبلا قاضي ولا تهمة تستمر أحداث الروايةو ك مع الوقت يتحولإنه يبدو في البداية مثابرًا على المحاولة‏أن يعرف لما يدانلما يحال إلى هذه المحاكمة العبثيةومع اقتراب النهاية يتحول ك إلى الاستسلاملم يعد يبالي بشيء
یا حتی فاجعه تر: دادگاه الهی روز قیامت!وقتی در صفحات اینترنت می چرخم و توجیه های خنده دار آدم ها راجع به فیلم های لینچ را می خوانم، همیشه یک فکر در ذهنم چرخ می خورد: این هایی که فیلم را این طور تفسیر و فهم کرده اند، پس از چه چیز فیلم لذت برده اند؟پ ن:این ریویوی قدیم من از محاکمه است، آیا من هم به دنبال تفسیر عقلانی این رمان بودم؟معروفه که میگن اسم «ک» برای شخصیت اول، نشون دهنده ی اینه که کافکا نمیخاد شخصیت پردازی بکنه.
701. Der Prozess = The Trial, Franz KafkaThe Trial (original German title: Der Process, later Der Prozess, Der Proceß and Der Prozeß) is a novel written by Franz Kafka between 1914 and 1915 and published posthumously in 1925. One of his best-known works, it tells the story of a man arrested and prosecuted by a remote, inaccessible authority, with the nature of his crime revealed neither to him nor to the reader. Heavily influenced by Dostoyevsky's Crime and Punishment and The Brothers Karamazov,
همانند سایر آثار کافکا محاکمه هم کامل نشد، اگرچه فصلی دارد که در آن، داستان به سرانجام هم می‌رسد.
برای دانستن این که چه کسانی به جای «ک» تصمیم میگیرند و سرانجام چه میشود بهتر است کتاب را بخوانید.
Un final que no esperaba, pero que a la vez demuestra la maestría narrativa de Kafka”.Luego de haber completado la lectura de toda su obra y haber leído sus “Diarios”, su “Carta al Padre” y las “Cartas a Milena” (solo me resta leerlas “Cartas a Felice”) tengo mucho más en claro de que se trata lo “kafkiano” y de por qué se manifiesta de forma sucesiva tanto en sus relatos, parábolas y aforismos como en sus novelas: esto se manifiesta por la directa conexión de lo ficcional con Kafka empírico.La gran analogía se produce, precisamente entre los vaivenes emocionales entre los que se movió a lo largo de su vida y la orientación de muchas de sus experiencias hacia su literatura.
He cleared his throat in a way that could be interpreted as assent."I understand, however," said Holz, "that your collaboration with Fräulein Müller has been more successful."K looked at his advisor carefully, trying to guess whether he was being ironic, but was unable to tell.
I suppose you did yours days ago."K waved his hand in a gesture of vague assent, though he was now starting to feel rather concerned."Oh good!" said Fräulein Müller, and smiled at him in a way that, for a moment, almost made her look attractive.
"A mind is like a parachute. It doesn’t work if it isn’t open." —Franz KafkaSomeone must have been telling lies about Josef K., he knew he had done nothing wrong but, one morning, he was arrested.This famous opening line becomes yet more intriguing as it pitches us directly into a scene whereby the first two protagonists are granted a degree of anonymity by the author, as he seeks to lure us into his philosophical daydream.K is clearly under house arrest, but his perplexing captors aren’t at li
I don’t know if I was meant to be outraged, but I found it really funny (there’s something wrong with me, I’m sure of it).Kafka uses existentialism like Banksy uses a spray can.
K is trying to remain rational while the world around him has become irrational - something most of us have experienced at some stage in our lives.As is also the case with Orwell’s 1984, this book hints at the totalitarian regimes that were likely to follow.I don’t profess to understand much of what Kafka hoped to symbolise in this allegorical mystery (I suspect he didn’t want anyone to unlock all of its secrets anyway), and one gets the feeling that he deliberately leads us into a literary cul-de-sac of his own choosing.The blurb describes the book as being ‘terrifying’ and ‘chilling’.
Who but Kafka can show the absurdity of "justice" in a world where power trumps reason, and political strength trumps fairness?Is it only me turning paranoid, or does Kafka become more and more "realistic", as our world turns more and more "kafkaesque"?Maybe the Non-Nobel Prize in Literature this year could go posthumously to all those dystopian, surrealistic writers that saw our world of today before it existed?
To Kafka, Orwell and Borges - from the Swedish Non-Academy, convulsively in the Process of Metamorphosis to Kafka's bugs?
A Non-Nobel to Kafka for prophetically writing his Cassandra-call to a blind and deaf-mute humanity!
A Crazy Train All Aboard!No novel will likely ever approach THE TRIAL in traducing the dark "justice" of the dictatorial governments that came to power after its 1925 publication, or, conversely, giving one a special, and by all means necessary, appreciation for the criminal justice system and fundamental rights granted those in the free world. Imagine: you are charged with a crime, but no one will tell you what that crime is, who specifically (what part of government) is charging you with the
Imagine: you are charged with a crime, but no one will tell you what that crime is, who specifically (what part of government) is charging you with the crime and/or is tasked with prosecuting the charges against you, where to read the law that prohibits the forbidden act, omission or conspiracy, when you committed the "crime," who accused you, the substance of the evidence against you (even in general terms), who or what was harmed, when your trial will take place, who will be charged with finding you guilty or innocent, what type of punishment you may face, whether you may appeal, among other missing items.
WHAT IS THIS SHIT.I have read many reviews and saw that I belong to the minority who just didn’t like or get this book.Like the author, I am going to leave The Trial unfinished and surrender to the fact that, unfortunately, Franz Kafka’s writing is way too bizarre, inane and unrealistic for my tastes.The protagonist, a pretentious banker named Josef K.
Nothing is explained or elucidated and yet people seem to abundantly laud Kafka for an unfinished, miserable excuse for a novel which the author himself wanted to be burned posthumously.
I fixed up a brew, poked in a madeleine, and summoned up the liars of recall.
I recalled my sixteen-year-old self, in his bedroom in his backwater home town, feasting on Vonnegut, Poe, and Kafka one miserable summer .
then the liars spoke to me: “Are you merely inserting Kafka’s The Trial as a book you ought to have read during that summer of pain, when in actual fact .
Then I simply checked out The Trial from the library and read the bastard.
جهانِ ما پُر است از دستهایی که هیچگاه خسته نمیشوند، از نگاهداریِ نقابها. فرانتس کافکاکافکا با نقاب اندیشمندیک. فوبیایِ بودنمرحوم نجفی، در کتاب «غلط ننویسیم»، میگه: استعمال واژهی «اندیشمند» در معنای «عالِم» اشتباهه، چون «اندیشه» نوعی تفکر توأم با ترس و آشفتگی و احتیاطه_ و صورت صحیحِ آن «دانشمند»ست تو گویی، این واژه رو برای کافکا دوختن. شاید بهترین نوشتهی کافکا که میتونه این نقابش رو ترسیم کنه، داستان ناتمامِ «لانه»ست. کافکا در لانه قصهی حیوونی رو تعریف کرده که در آشفتگیِ دمادم زندگی میکنه. وقتی د
فوبیایِ بودنمرحوم نجفی، در کتاب «غلط ننویسیم»، میگه: استعمال واژه‌ی «اندیشمند» در معنای «عالِم» اشتباهه، چون «اندیشه» نوعی تفکر توأم با ترس و آشفتگی و احتیاطه_ و صورت صحیحِ آن «دانشمند»‌ست تو‌ گویی، این واژه رو برای کافکا دوختن.
دستخوشِ حس «فحّاشی به هستی» میشی، به قول خود فرانتس: «...مثل یک خودکشی؛ کتاب باید مثلِ تبری باشد برای دریایِ یخ‌زده‌ی درونمان.» مطمئناً، هرس شدن برای درخت فان نیست ولی ضروریه؛ ضروریه اگر مصمم به هَرز نرفتن، باشیمپندِ اخلاقی یِکْ دَرونْگَرآ: هر چیزی خیلی زیاد و خیلی کَمِش خوب نیست، مخصوصاً فهمیدنهشتگ: ن و الْتَبَر و مَا یَسْطُرُونَکافکا با نقاب نویسندهدر غالب موارد، مخاطب، دو انتخاب بیشتر نداره: اول، اثری عمیق و کسل‌کننده.
The Trial seems to be about how incomprehensible and absurd life can be at times.
I don't think it's a coincidence that The Trial kicks off on Josef K.'s 30th birthday.Kafka's writing is stripped down but still powerful.
I caught myself grinning on occasion and not really sure if that was the appropriate reaction.The Trial isn't just about Josef's trial, it's also about the trial the trial becomes in Josef's life.
And isn't life just one big trial anyway?The Trial.
(just his initial is revealed), a banker in the beautiful city of Prague, now the capital of the Czech Republic, during the last days of the crumbling Austro- Hungarian Empire, before World War 1, such a man at the young age of thirty, to be in charge of a large bank's finances, yet he lives in a boarding house of Frau Grabach, why a successful person does, is a mystery.
ordered to see an examining magistrate and goes to an old apartment building, in a poor, shabby suburb of the city, finally after asking directions, Josef arrives on the fifth floor, late and finding the filthy hall full of people of various kinds, all of them look at Josef, as the main attraction there .

Έτσι είναι ο Νόμος, τι να κάνουμε; Ποίος είναι αυτός ο Νόμος; Γιατί κανείς δεν αντιστέκεται; Γιατί όλοι, απαθείς, αφήνονται και "παραδίνονται" απέναντι σε ένα απάνθρωπο, κλειστοφοβικό σύστημα;Ο Κ., ένας άξεστος και αντιπαθητικός (σε πολλά σημεία) χαρακτήρας, προσπαθεί λυσσαλέα να βρει το δίκιο του και να αθωωθεί απέναντι στις ανύπαρκτες κατηγορίες, αλλά το σύστημα έχει τον τρόπο του να σε φθείρει ψυχολογικά και πνευματικά, και στο τέλος να σε πατάει σαν μία κατσαρίδα!Ο συγγραφέας διάβασα πως είχε πολύ προβληματική παιδική ηλικία και ιδιαίτερα με τον πατέρα του, ο οποίος μια φορά για να τον τιμωρήσει τον σήκωσε από το κρεβάτι του και τον είχε κλειδώσει εκτός σπιτιού, στο κρύο.
First, a quick summary of this horrible, horrible novel.
Some jackass gets arrested, he does things you would not do, sees people you would not see and has thoughts you would not have.
After that, a priest and a parable then, mercifully, the end.Now my thoughts.
K. is a pompous ass with a very important job - to him.
The bureaucrats are the best part of the whole story, all job description, no brains (like now!).
The priest is a tool and his parable made me think I was reading the novelisation of "The Never Ending Story".
Despite never having read Kafka before I am quite sure I used the word 'Kafkaesque' on many occasions and maintained a semi-eloquent conversation about 'The Trial'.I could've probably done without ever reading it but recently I resolved to take my literary pursuits seriously and since books seem to be the only thing in this world I truly care for I might as well take it to another level.'The Trial' does not have any plot to speak of and character development is non-existent.
However, many literary critics and other smart people see it differently and that is their prerogative.There is, for example, a quite interesting theory that 'The Trial' was born as an inmediate result of the break-up of Kafka's engagement to Felice Bauer.
The remaining narrative is a sort of judgment on all the decisions he's made.
Although he is 'free' for most of the novel, K's trial consumes all his time, and he is locked in a course of events over which he has little or no control.
The process of the trial playing out even if it is not outwardly 'in session' and K's own processing of events, forces us to recognize that our decisions are consequential.
Even decisions that don't seem significant.
This is especially apparent at the end of the novel (which brings us to a sort of tragic anticlimactic climax).
Γιατί στον κόσμο της "Δίκης" δεν έχει καμία σημασία η ενοχή ή η αθωότητα, δεν παίζει κανένα ρόλο το είδος της κατηγορίας, το αν έχει κανείς δικηγόρο ή όχι, το αν ασχολείται με την υπόθεσή του ή την αφήνει να πάρει το δρόμο της ακολουθώντας την αδυσώπητη διοικητική μηχανή που κινείται ασταμάτητα.Διαβάζοντας, ένα συναίσθημα με κυρίευσε και εμένα μαζί με τον Κ.
Η συνειδητοποίηση ότι στον κόσμο αυτό της "Δίκης" δεν έχει καμία θέση ο κοινός νους, ο Ορθός Λόγος, γιατί το Παράλογο είναι παρόν και διεκδικεί (και κερδίζει) τον τίτλο της κανονικότητας.
He wakes up one day with strange men in his apartment telling him he's under arrest.
The arresting officers themselves don't know and can't tell him.
He talks with his lawyer's other client--also charged and under arrest like him.
The "Examining Magistrate," the "Judges," the "Court," the proceedings/ trial, and even the "Law" itself--they all seem to be unsolvable enigmas.Now, look at yourself.
You are under arrest.So you seek help.
'Like a dog!' he said; it was as if the shame of it must outlive him."A must read for the insanely delirious ones: those who live without thinking and therefore unaware that they, too, are indicted and are under arrest.
Has God also created an absurd world?At the end of the book Kafka gives us the parable of the man who waits at the gate of heaven waiting to be let in.
At the end of his life the gatekeeper arrives to close the door and inform the man that he will not be allowed to enter.
The man then asks why if the door leads to Heaven has no one else come to seek entry.
The gatekeeper explains that every man has his own private door to heaven.The Trial is eerie, funny and tragic.
Whose justice does it dispense?"The Court is quite impervious to proof...You must remember that in these Courts things are always coming up for discussion that are simply beyond reason, people are too tired and distracted to think, and so they take refuge in superstition."In the CathedralBit by bit, as the novel progressed, I questioned whether Kafka's real target was the authority that religion has over our lives.The penultimate chapter occurs in the Cathedral.
I noticed that I seem to have a sub-conscious list of 'great books' that I feel it encumbent on every library to hold, but never mind.Having reread, I am struck over all by it's profound oddness, perhaps it's ultimate greatness, if I may be so bold, is as a masterpiece of the absurd (view spoiler)[ but for the rest of the 20th century, perhaps we would read Kafka's novels as comedies: man alone in the modern world  (hide spoiler)]wrapping up early 20th century concerns, social change, psychology and the unconscious, faith and fable, mysticism and conventional religion, life as a quest, life as a trial, democracy and power into one bizarre bundle.
Verdict: A tome of existentialist tripe so bleak and pointless there isn’t even a trial.There comes a point in the evolution all art; visual, literary, musical, wherein those who create it eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil and become too self aware.
It is what led Kafka to write The Trial.
It is a horrible, horrible moment.I won’t mince words; I loathe this book.
Existentialism is and forever will be a dirty word to me and The Trial gets a 1.#26Title	The Trial by Franz KafkaWhen	Autumn 2002Why	Read for sophomore EnglishRating	1
We’re all human beings here, one like the other.” “That is true,” said the priest, “but that is how the guilty speak.” Interpretations of The Trial seem to occupy one (or more) of five basic camps; autobiographical (Kafka worked as an insurance lawyer and certainly understood the almost indecipherable bureaucracy of that industry in general and insurance documents in particular); political (re: Austria-Hungary social tensions of 1914 when Kafka wrote it, and prefiguring the seemingly insane logic of fascist Nazi Germany); religious (Kafka was Jewish; some of the debates seem to echo Jewish theological debates; also, is there really meaning in life, or is life just absurd?
