https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198639.By_Searching
Remarkably honest first person account.Isobel Kuhn details her change from skeptic to Christian and where that journey then led her. It is a short account but very detailed. It stops short of documenting her missionary experiences which are contained in other books.I know this is a classic and I did enjoy it but found the tone slightly irritating in places. I can't really explain why. There was also some unnecessary detail of matters which seemed unimportant.Recommended though for those interested in preparation for missions or even those wondering how to "search for God!"
It is amazing how the Lord intersects various conversations, events, radio programs, thoughts, and books, like puzzle pieces to speak into my life.
Over and over again, He shows His intimate care and concern for my heart and its affairs, those things close to me.
This book is for college students, their parents, and anyone who can relate to a struggle to live without submission and a walk of consecration to Christ.
Although written in the setting of the 1920's, most of what is found here is of a timeless nature and worth the reader's time and attention.
This book blessed me - thank you again, Isobel.
But He is also willing to be Father to such as come to Him by His ordained road, Jesus Christ, and as a Father He tenderly stoops to the immaturity of the babe in Christ."Mrs. Kuhn has an understated analytical style of writing that reads quite contemporarily despite the fact that this book was written almost 70 years ago.
Another good example of her perceptive, direct analytical ability in writing is this description of God's "normal" work in our "normal" lives: "Life does contain moments of adventure, but these times are interspersed with long periods of plain, unvarnished hard work.
I'm adding it to my fall reading list!
I expected this to be a book about missionary life in China, but it turns out it was about the years that led up to Kuhn's missionary days.
This is the second book that I've read about young women in the 1920's and yet I didn't plan that at all.
I am fascinated by God's hand in Kuhn's life and I'm going to look around to see if there's anything else that she ever had published.
Let just say this short little book just placed itself right onto my list of all-time favorites!
Though this book is sub-titled "My Journey Through Doubt Into Faith" only a small portion of the book deals with Isobel's time as a doubter.
What this book chiefly illustrates is Isobel's growing faith--the small tests and experiences that led her from an infant faith to a steady faith.
The kind of faith necessary to move her from the comforts of America to the mission field in China.
Any Christian who reads this book will find themselves examining their own life and faith to see how they measure up.
It's a sincere and thought-provoking book.

I have read several books about missionaries who have devoted their lives to spreading the message of Jesus Christ in China. This book deals with Isobel Kuhn "pre-China" years. I found it very interesting and I personally loved it. It might not appeal to everyone but I gleaned a lot from it. It is set in the early 1920's. Some things have changed, but other things, such as the power of God in transforming lives, have not.
Another classic by Isobel Kuhn. God did miracle after miracle in her life as a missionary in China. Before her time as a missionary though, God had to show young Isobel that He is real and desires to use willing vessels who are fully yielded to Him. He removed all doubt from her mind through numerous manifestations in her life. Read this book and be encouraged to trust God for miracles. He delights in removing all your doubt.
I loved the gentle conversational style of this book. It made me feel like I was sitting at my Grandma's feet hearing her testimony. This book had some really good and really unusual points. Definitely a keeper! I'd highly recommend it to anyone.
One of my favorite missionary biographies!
I find myself coming back to this book time and again as I reach a different level of maturity -- this, and Kuhn's In the Arena.
Mrs. Kuhn's simple and friendly style carries some massive truths. Her journey from a Christian home to university agnosticism to faith in Christ to the mission field is very encouraging.
Great book! Isobel Kuhn is an astounding woman of faith. encouraging to see how God works through prayer
I'm going to recommend this one to my daughters...who are growing up quickly. Inspiring for all, but maybe particularly for young women?
What a wonderful book!!!! I could not put it down!
She details how she lost her faith in God. The reader gets to see her growth back into the Lord after the pleasures of this world dissatisfy her for long enough.
Her love and passion for the Lord quickly become evident.
Throughout the story, she clearly loves God and desires to serve Him. These desires manifest in her attentiveness to God and how He was changing her.
The in-between level place of easygoing - nothing very good attempted, yet nothing bad either- where men walk in the mist, telling each other that no one can see these things clearly."
The title of this is a little misleading.
Kuhn spends the first 25 pages or so on resolving her doubt and the remaining 90% of the book on her life of faith.
I guess I expected a little more thorough explanation of her doubt to faith experience.
As a person, Kuhn comes off seeming pretty uptight.
It's like in her pursuit of relationship with God she pushed aside many innocent pleasures that God purposed for enjoyment.
We likely wouldn't have been friends.That said, it wasn't uninteresting.
I can't say I'd recommend it, but I also wasn't sorry I read it.
A fine little book that I first read as a teen. This was a blast from the past. The time frame is Isobel's years as a young adult during the 1920's before she arrived in China as a missionary."Canst thou by searching find out God?" Job 11:7"Ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye search for me with all your heart" Jer. 29:13Although the book is dated, the principals are still valid and meaningful for us today. I enjoyed the folksy honest style of this volume. A choice blessing to read this again after so many years.
I cannot begin to tell you how this book has influenced my life. Isobel Kuhn's honest and real testimony of God's faithfulness in her journey toward Him set my heart aflame for Him anew. I strongly recommend this book!
In spite of what I see as a particular "flavor" of Christian lifestyle with which I don't wholly agree, I enjoyed this woman's story and her way of telling it was very readable and engaging.
at the time, I really loved this little book
A short but compelling narration of a young woman's personal search for God. Simply and powerfully written, and feels relevant despite its age.
Excellent book for any chrisian
Although I enjoyed this book, being a young person of today I could barely relate to Kuhn when she talked about returning to her faith.
Perhaps because of the time period, returning to faith was easier for her then, than if she had been like myself today.
It felt like she was welcomed and cocooned by her church community very early on and the remainder of the book (a good 3/4 from memory) became more and more difficult to identify with, since she had always believed in God and it seemed she was simply falling back into a lifestyle she knew growing up.
I did not see much doubt or personal change so the title is misleading but I enjoyed her writing style.
This is a great autobiography of a young woman through her university years at the University of British Columbia to Moody Bible Institute to candidate with China Inland Mission to her departure for China as a missionary with CIM.
It starts out with her questioning the faith with which she had grown up, but never really accepted for herself, when a university professor started describing the myths of Genesis.
This book follows Isobel Kuhn's walk, search, and struggle with God. At distinct instances of her life, she relies on God's grace to get by, live, and grow.
What particularly touched me was the end of the book about a woman she grew to know who underwent living in an asylum.
This part of the book also alludes to the idea that those in the mental health system are demon-possessed.
Those in mental health can't surely be possessed by the devil.
She leaves the reader hanging at the end of this book as she embarks on her mission in China.
Her struggles and wanderings were constrained by the prayers of family members and friends until she could be led by God to walk on the High Way. The story of her trip of preparation to be a missionary, wife, and mother in China for the next quarter of a century is amazing.
Take a trip on a time machine and be fascinated by the way God worked in a culture so like our own, yet so different that you will be surprised again and again by the feeling of dislocation.
Finally, at the end, you will be constrained take Isobel's advice and go forward, SEARCHING.
I highly recommend this book.Told through the eyes as a nonbeliever, doubter, and finally a faithful servant, this book is relatable and an encouraging book that helps us remember we're never alone and God has our back.A true story, this book was hard to put down, was thought-provoking and incredibly amazing. A hint of romance (and when I say a hint, I mean it) and christian genre, this book is my cup of tea.Really helpful book that will always be a favourite of mine.
Isobel Kuhn has the wonderful story of a life finally yielded to God. Not that she was perfect, but she found that for a Christian submission to God is the only way to have peace. God never quit calling her to himself.  Do you double God or His existence? So did she, and after a period of rebellion found that He was true and caring.  It is an excellent read.Light, encouraging, it is a very personal narrative.
A first-hand account of her own life, from a state of unbelief and worldly living to a life whole-heartedly committed to God. I was inspired by Isobel’s disciplined living. She shares of how she made a commitment to spend one hour in quite time with the Lord daily and willingly sacrificed sleep or food or other enjoyments to fulfill this commitment.
