https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/517959.Thank_You_Amelia_Bedelia
Great-Aunt Myra will be visiting the Rogers and Amelia Bedelia has to get everything ready, from stringing beans (with a string), to separating eggs (each one far away from the other)!
Amelia Bedelia is still up to her antics and misunderstands everything.This time it is during one of Mrs. Rogers great aunts visits. She saves the day though with her great baking skills.
Between removing "spots" from a dress and "checking" the shirts, it's a wonder Amelia Bedelia stays employed. Good thing she makes scrumptious pies. I have always wanted to try one. I wonder if she has a recipe? Anyway, be prepared for another delightful smorgasbord of humorous antics!Reading Level: 1st -3rd gradesCleanliness: someone says "thank goodness" and "what in thunderation."
Goodness can be contagious.
In preparation for a visit by Great Aunt Myrna, house-keeper Amelia, pocketbook usually hooked inside elbow, follows instructions of Mrs Rogers to the letter, almost.
Indistinguishable from original illustrations, on cover Amelia dances gleefully.
Like her old-fashioned 1950s Queen E 2 pocketbook is fixed inside her elbow, her obedience is set on the straight and narrow path.
Happiness from goodness spills over.
(view spoiler)[Amelia tears sheets in strips, paints shirts with checks, cuts out polka-dots, pulls string on needle through beans, sets eggs still in shells on far apart shelves, "pairs" vegetables in twos.
i used to read these books as a kid and i was so happy to come across one at a library sale.
amelia bedelia, for anyone who doesn't know, is a maid who works for mr.
rogers and basically any request that they make of her, she finds a way to get it mixed up.
rogers told her to separate three eggs and she took three eggs out of the carton and put each one in random places around the kitchen, hoping they were far enough apart.
i remember my mom reading these to me when i was little and we always found amelia bedelia to be very endearing ♥
Funny in all the same ways as Amelia Bedelia. It's all about misunderstanding and nuance. I loved helping our kids grasp the nuance during our read along.
My children love these little books. They thoroughly enjoy each and every story, as if they are all unique and individual without any cause for similarity among them. Even though sometimes, they might seem tedious and repetitive to me as a parent, I do enjoy being able to read short-stories to my children that are clean and respective.
My most favorite childhood book.
i liket this book becuase i like the cericters
One of the culprits in convincing children to grow up into adults who think puns are funny.
Not my favorite, nor my elast favorite in the series. A usual series of puns and misunderstandings and delicious baked goods.
Personal Response: The English language can be quite confusing. Peggy Parish shows this clearly in “Thank You Amelia Bedelia.” I read this book to my neighbor, a three year old girl, and she could not stop laughing at the book. I give this book a five star rating because I found it funny and easy for kids to comprehend to help interest them into reading at a young age.Plot: People often need help to prepare for the arrival of special guests, an Mrs. Rodgers has Amelia Bedelia for those tasks. Mr
I give this book a five star rating because I found it funny and easy for kids to comprehend to help interest them into reading at a young age.Plot:	People often need help to prepare for the arrival of special guests, an Mrs. Rodgers has Amelia Bedelia for those tasks.
Mrs. Rodgers asks Amelia to do a few simple chores around the house, so she could get ready herself.
The only problem was the word choice Mrs. Rodgers used causing all sorts of confusion for Amelia.
No wonder she gets a little mixed up every now and then.Recommendation: 	“Thank You Amelia Bedelia” is a humorous children’s book.
Parish's series of Amelia Bedelia stories may not be so popular now, but I really enjoyed reading these stories as a child.
Amelia is a house made who takes what her employers ask her to do, by it's literal meaning.
In Thank You, Amelia Bedelia, her employer's great aunt is coming to visit and she must prepare her home for company.
Amelia is asked to strip the sheets on the bed in the guest bedroom.
Amelia rips each sheet into strips.
This story becomes even more hysterical when her employer asks her to make a jelly roll for dessert.
Mrs. Rogers has a special guest coming to visit and needs Amelia to do several chores around the house.
Amelia is getting everything ready for Mrs. Rogers Great-Aunt Myra who has never visited because she doesn't feel at home anywhere, but home.
Amelia scatters flowers about the living room, cuts the spots out of Mrs. Rogers polka-dotted dress, and literally strips the sheets of the bed into shreds.
And although Amelia takes everything literally and seems to make a mess of things, Great-Aunt Myra really enjoys Amelia's apple pie and says she will definitely be coming for a visit again!
I think readers will enjoy Amelia's literal interpretation of instructions.
Mrs. Rogers has a special guest coming to visit and needs Amelia to do several chores around the house.
Amelia is getting everything ready for Mrs. Rogers Great-Aunt Myra who has never visited because she doesn't feel at home anywhere, but home.
Amelia scatters flowers about the living room, cuts the spots out of Mrs. Rogers polka-dotted dress, and literally strips the sheets of the bed into shreds.
And although Amelia takes everything literally and seems to make a mess of things, Great-Aunt Myra really enjoys Amelia's apple pie and says she will definitely be coming for a visit again!
I think readers will enjoy Amelia's literal interpretation of instructions.
Amelia Bedelia is a maid that comes to the Rogers house.
To dress the chicken, she gets material and makes clothes for the chicken.
In this book Great Aunt Myra is coming for a visit and the Rogers are all uptight to help make Aunt Myra comfortable.
Even with all the funny things Amelia Bedelia does Aunt Myra feels right at home and enjoys her visit.
I remember reading these books as a child, and would laugh at the silly things she would do.
It's that type of book that will have generations of children smiling and laughing at the 'can't help but love' Amelia Bedelia.
I can remember reading the Amelia Bedelia stories in grade school, and all I have to say is I still think she is funny.
The illustrations tell a story all their own.
As Amelia is receiving her assignments she always has the sincere face, and as she is completely ruining things she appears ecstatic.
In Thank you, Amelia Bedelia Mrs. Rogers great aunt Myra is coming to town, and she wants everything to be perfect for her aunt.
Turns out the idea of what is perfect, is different between her and her aunt.
Amelia Bedelia wants to help Mrs. Rogers make everything perfect for Great Aunt Myra's visit.
Mrs. Rogers asked her to strip the sheets from the bed in the guest room.
Amelia took the sheets off and tore them into strips.
Mrs. Rogers asked her to check Mr. Rogers shirts from the cleaners.
Amelia painted them checkered.
Mrs. Rogers asked Amelia to string the beans.
So, Amelia took the beans and put them on a string.
It still worked out though, Great Aunt Myra will come to visit again because Amelia knows how to make somebody feel at home.
I loved the Amelia Bedilia books.
I've never laughed so hard while reading a book to my daughter.You know how when you read aloud and your eyes read ahead of what is actually coming out of your mouth, well half the time I was laughing so hard about something before I managed to read it out loud to my daughter.
It's been quite a few years since I've read the books but I loved every Amelia Bedilia book and plan on getting ahold of them again soon so I can read them to my grand daughter.All the Amelia Bedilia books are highly recommended.
The Amelia Bedilia book series is great for young children. They are funny and light hearted and I remember loving to read them as a kid. In this particular book, Mrs. Rodgers asks Amelia to prepare the house because Great-Aunt Myra is coming to visit. Whatever Amelia is told to do she takes literally. For example, Mrs. Rodgers asked her to scatter some roses around the living room and Amelia scattered them by throwing them all over the living room. These books are silly and are great reads for second and third graders!
Probably my most favorite of the Amelia Bedelia collection. The illustrations just add to the goofy fun when the main character takes instructions literally. As a kid, my favorite scene in this book is where Amelia is asked by her employer to remove spots from a dress. One pair of scissors later, the polka-dot dress is all fixed up! As a younger kid, I loved this book and read it over and over. Large print and short sentences make this a read for the under nine crowd who think puns are great.
This one's a total hoot.
Okay I read this while helping my daughter in her English lessons but I was simply floored by Amelia and her literal thinking ways.
What's more was that my daughter's class enacted a term end play based on the book and it was so funny and truly amazing.
All those second graders did such a wonderful job of getting the essence of the book out there that the book is forever entrenched into my memory.So, if you don't mind reading 2nd grader books and are looking for some fun in a few pages, do give this series a try and believe me you will love it.
Thank You, Amelia Bedelia follows Amelia on another adventure where she takes everything literally that Mrs. Rodgers asked her. She literally tries to make the "jelly roll", stips the sheets and separates the eggs! Amelia Bedelia books are great easy read books for beginning readers. I would use this book in the classroom as an example of what it means to take things too literally. As we all know, we all have those students who believe every word you say is true.
i loved these as a child and i have been re-reading these books again as an adult.. apparently someone in her family continued this "series" after the author died and his books are not as good as peggy's.. at any rate.. i was just thinking to some degree how formulaic some of her books are.. which normally would bug me but i love that her ability to make good desserts gets her out of trouble..
Such a classic Amelia Bedelia book. This specific book is one of the first that was published in color which is super exciting for a child. This specific book is about Amelia's housekeeper and everything she does for the upcoming visit of Amelia'a aunt. This book is for early elementary.
My nephew insisted on reading this to me, giggling as he did so. Amelia is still up to the same antics, but they may need updating. Sayings like "drawing drapes" and "powdering the baby," don't mean much to today's kids.
Read this book with Megan, 2nd Grader, who gave it a high rating. Not sure she caught all of the expressions, but was able to understand well enough to pass AR post test. As an adult, I appreciated the humor and did my best to explain idioms, figures of speech, and outdated phrases.
Memories of reading Amelia Bedelia make me smile!! :) She's fantastic, and I actually want to buy all of the books so my future children can enjoy what I did (and so I can read the ones I never got to...).
a hilarious story of miss understandingsa great series of mixed up directions and literal meanings, this is a great silly series to show children that mistakes and mix ups are possible if not probable, and that innocence may be more of the reason then meaning to do something wrong/
Amelia Bedelia is back and ditzy as ever. When her great aunt is set to arrive she sets off stringing beans (with string) and removing spots from her friend's dress (with scissors), not to mention she tries to make jelly roll...REALLY roll! Lots of fun for fans.
