https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32599492-the-girl-who-takes-an-eye-for-an-eye
Our uber hip, ominously dangerous heroine, Miss Lisbeth Salander, is in Flodberga prison for two months because, in the course of saving an autistic child from his abuser, she got…too aggressive.She did.
If need be, I’d open a vein and sketch out my book reviews in blood with a rat’s tooth on toilet paper and have them snuck out of the prison, hopefully by the man who delivers my books because I’ve threatened to eviscerate him in every story I write for the rest of my life if he doesn’t help me.I would get a lot of reading done.

I did enjoy this book, even more than the last one, but I think if it was not connected to this series, I might have enjoyed it more.First thing, in general, I enjoyed the story.
One thing that has bothered me - even in the original trilogy - is the tendency for the story to be going along just fine and making perfect sense and suddenly it goes off on a really crazy tangent and I have no clue what is happening.
It kind of makes reading the books in this series a bit uncomfortable.The front of this book says it is a Lisbith Salander book.
This book is Chaotic and pretty much without a plot, not to mention it was written in such a stilted manner. Is Lagercrantz intent on destroying Larsson's legacy?
I've enjoyed this series immensely, even the last book written by Lagercrantz. But this book just lacked something. It seemed to spend the first  meandering around without truly setting up a definitive plot line. As you would expect, there remain lots of moving pieces throughout the book with lots of very current themes- hacking of the financial markets, fentanyl, Muslim fanatics. Despite the multiple themes, it's often far too easy to see where the storyline is going.  There are lots of charact
I've enjoyed this series immensely, even the last book written by Lagercrantz.
But this book just lacked something.
It seemed to spend the first ⅓ meandering around without truly setting up a definitive plot line.
As you would expect, there remain lots of moving pieces throughout the book with lots of very current themes- hacking of the financial markets, fentanyl, Muslim fanatics.
Despite the multiple themes, it's often far too easy to see where the storyline is going.
There are lots of characters and it's sometimes difficult to keep track of all the names.
She no longer seemed like a real character, more comic book hero.
From my viewpoint, I felt that Larsson was willing to say "Here is the cruelty that exists in our world and I am not going to shy away from it." Lagercrantz is a bit more " Yeah, but how about if I tug at your heartstrings a bit first by giving Lisbeth an autistic child or a wrongly accused immigrant woman to save?" Then again, if DL is going to finish the prophecy of the original creator and carry this series to 10 books, I guess a few changes must occur to give longevity and momentum to the books.That's just how I see it, but I am just ONE reader among the thousands.
Lagercrantz returns with his second offering in the Lisbeth Salander series focusing on the personal history of Lisbeth as a child that she can barely remember or understand.
She is not, however, going to let the bullying and abuse of Bangladeshi Faria Kazi by psychopath, Benito, a woman that everyone is afraid of, including the prison warden, pass by without intervening.
Salander's beloved former guardian, the elderly Holger Palmgren has received papers on Lisbeth's history as a child, and decides to look more closely at the details despite them appearing to be saying little that is new.
Turning to investigative journalist Mikael Blomkvist, Salander points him in the direction of an elderly lawyer who may possess a vast number of documents tied to her time with The Registry.
I am glad that I did, for Lagercrantz has done a wonderful job working through threads in the series (namely Salander and Blomkvist), as well as injecting some interesting tangents in this novel, primarily building on Lisbeth’s twin sister Camilla.
Lagercrantz keeps Lisbeth Salander and Mikael Blomkvist as central, though many of the periphery characters also enrich the larger story.
3.5 starsThis is a tough book to review because even though I liked it for the most part, it just felt slightly off when comparing it to the first four books of the series.
I know other people had a problems with the fourth book but I honestly thought it was a fairly good attempt and I did feel like I had stepped back comfortably into Blomkvist and Salander's world.
While the action switched back and forth between different characters, it didn't feel as overwhelming and hard to follow as with the last book.
Please read the following review in the context of my overarching belief that Lisbeth Salander is an iconic figure in contemporary fiction.Lisbeth is in a maximum security prison, serving time for her overly aggressive methods to rescue an autistic child in Lagercrantz's first book.
Lisbeth cannot abide injustice: either the inmates running the prison nor the abuse of this gentle soul so she uses all of her resources to help Faria Kazi.Meanwhile, some old files are given to Lisbeth's former guardian, Holger Palmgren, about the people who experimented on Lisbeth when she was a child, starting investigative reporter Mikael Blomkvist on a twisted trail to find those responsible for her situation as well as others, including the son of a major financial power figure in Sweden.
Es desde diferentes puntos de vista lo que enriquece la historia y siempre queda en suspenso y no sabes si leer más rápido o saltarte páginas y saber qué pasa.En esta oportunidad Lisbeth está presa por defender a un niño autista de su abusador y si la conocemos bien sabremos cómo fue la defensa, no importándole ir a prision.
Y el final es fantástico!Lisbeth Salander es un personaje como pocos y me entristece mucho saber que solo nos queda un libro en esta serie.
Estátua na Igreja Storkyrkan em Estocolmo - Suécia. "São Jorge, o cavaleiro, está montado no seu cavalo e tem a espada erguida. Um dragão moribundo jaz debaixo do cavaleiro. Uma mulher em vestes burgúndias encontra-se ao seu lado."(view spoiler)[https://www.facebook.com/DomQuixote/v... (hide spoiler)] Duas "versões" ou duas "visões" para ”O Homem Que Perseguia a Sua Sombra” 1 - Review de João Carlos Pereira - 2* Contêm alguns spoliers ”O Homem Que Perseguia a Sua Sombra” é o quinto volume da sér
1962), encarregado pelos herdeiros legais de Stieg Larsson (1954 – 2004) – o seu pai e o seu irmão – de continuar com a publicação das histórias emocionantes que têm como principais protagonistas – Lisbeth Salander e o jornalista Mikael Blomkvist.O início de ”O Homem Que Perseguia a Sua Sombra” é verdadeiramente prometedor – Lisbeth Salander está a cumprir pena de prisão em Flodberga, o único estabelecimento prisional feminino na Suécia de segurança máxima.
This is the fifth book in the Millennium Series. I enjoyed this story almost as much as I enjoyed Stieg Larsson’s earlier books starting with “The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo”. I know there are many who feel that David Lagercrantz does not stand up to Larsson’s writing, but I think it comes close enough. I’m not saying it’s better than the first three, just that it holds up to the series. The main appeal for me is always the kickass Lisabeth Salander character and Lagercrantz understands that an
The story was complex and although I did guess a few of the twists early on, I was still turning pages with interest all the way to the end.
I don’t know why that bothers me, I guess it’s that he’s a bit of a James Bond character, but while Salander does all the tricky thinking and the necessary violence, he still get’s the cocktail and the girl in every book.
I don’t expect earthshattering revelations in these books, just some good twists, turns and a health dose of Lisabeth Salander outsmarting and overpowering her evil adversaries.
Not even good if you see it as a fan-fic, not connected to great works of Stieg Larsson. I would much rather rate it a 0 but as it is impossible. Save your money. This story is not about Lisbeth Salander. Sure, it mentions her every now and then, but it's not about her. Read only if you wish to see how David Lagercrantz butcher the characters completely, stips them of their principles and well established quirks. Nothing is good about this book. Nothing. It makes me cry inside to think that he is allowed to write a 3rd installment.
********As this fifth book in the 'Millenium Series' opens, Lisbeth Salander is in Flodberga Prison - sentenced to two months for refusing to cooperate with the (compromised) police while protecting an endangered autistic boy (in book four).
Salander isn't intimidated by Benito, but the swastika-tattooed thug is abusing a beautiful Bangladeshi inmate named Faria Kazi.
Salander also asks her friend, journalist Mikael Blomkvist, to gather information about a man called Leo Mannheimer.When he's back home, Palmgren continues to pore over the secret papers, and sees the name of someone he's met - Professor Martin Steinberg.
I finished though, and I don't know what that says about me.
It's ten years since I read the original trilogy, but Larsson definitely expressed himself more elegantly than this.Lisbeth Salander is in prison because of a minor incident with the law.
While in prison she makes a powerful enemy with the gangster Benito.
Leo and Lisbeth where both part of a controversial and secret twin study.
I just know there will be more.
Lisbeth is a cash cow.
Lisbeth Salander is one of the greatest literary heroines to ever grace the page and I do not approve of what Lagercrantz does to her.
Nothing can come close to the first in this series, The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, but Lisbeth Salander and Mikhail Blomkvist still make for great entertainment.
It was done in the name of science and was eventually closed and the Swedish government or at least those who even knew about it tried very hard to bury it as deep as possible so no one would know it was ever doneHowever, not everyone in the program wanted it discontinued.
There are many "scientific experiments"coming under scrutiny for the harm they did in the name of science.I enjoyed listening to this book courtesy of Overdrive.
David Lagercrantz continues the Millennium series and does a fine job. The character of Lisbeth Salander continues to be the bad ass girl I crave to read more about. Lisbeth finds herself in prison and while there she continues to create trouble for herself, but for all the right reasons. I don't know what this says about me, but I like the prison scenes. On a slightly different track, Leo's past unfolds and it is good! When Lisbeth is released she learns a few truths and this girl doesn't get mad...she gets even. Another great read as Lagercrantz takes over.
What a disappointing end to one of my favorite series! It was a mess...too long, too much unnecessary detail and an unsatisfying ending.
So I touch upon the fact that I hate David Lagercrantz as the person who continued this series down below, but I will actually review the book here.I found this, as a book, holds up really well.
I don't have much else to say, so I leave you with the reason I think Lagercrantz is running this series into the ground.------------------------------------------------I hated the third book.
It's clear that Lagercrantz did not like Blomkvist's relationship with Berger and chose to remove it.
I think Lagercrantz was absolutely the worst decision and worst possible person to continue this story and I am so disappointed.

Insufficient words to properly express how truly bad this book is. The writing is infantile, at first I attributed it to the translation but that's not the case. The story line is impossible to follow and I have to finally let one of my favorite literary characters go. Goodbye to Lisbeth Salander and I mourn Stieg Larsson again. Read 80 pages, DNF.
An excellent continuation of the series. Part of chapter 24 feels tacked-on, like Revelations in the Bible--not a fit with the rest. Blomkvist feels a bit insufferable and smug; Lisbeth is well-written and brave, as always. Also, there's a bit too much research download. I understand the impulse.
A história é muito mais interessante do que a do livro anterior pós-Larsson. O enredo pega em inúmeras lacunas que ficaram por preencher após a morte do autor e leva a história para uma sem fim de novas possibilidades. Adorei e recomendo, especialmente para quem ficou desiludido com o 4o volume (como eu fiquei na altura).
An incredible story with multiple plot lines that must be read or listened to intently to appreciate the great depths of author Lagercrantz' imagination. 10 of 10 stars
David Lagercrantz... voltou!(Re)regresso da dupla Blomqvist-Salander a rasgar grande parte dos princípios consagrados por Stieg Larsson, sendo o mais óbvio a quantidade de páginas. É o livro mais curto da saga Millenium.De enredo interessante, com constantes deambulares entre vários períodos de tempo, Lagercrantz serve um livro mais directo, com menos enquadramento, menos cidade, menos sociedade, menos economia. E fecha-o com uma "brisa" demasiado rápida. Dá um passo ao lado. Interessante, mas a
Interessante, mas ao lado.Lisbeth está presente como actriz principal, não tanto como protagonista.
Se o volume anterior foi uma continuação directa (e familiar?) da história de Salander, esta nova iteração é mais um episódio na vida de Lisbeth, resultante da sua condição inicial, do que propriamente um passo em frente.É usado como âncora do passado de Salander e serve o seu propósito, mas não mais do que isso…”Por alguma razão, as pessoas demoraram a perceber que era Lisbeth Salander, o que se podia dever ao facto de ela usar um fato feito por medida, preto, que lhe dava um ar de rapaz; embora esta nova atitude de cuidar da aparência não incluísse o cabelo que, como de costume, espetava em todas as direcções, nem da sua maneira de andar, que também era a mesma.” PS – Nota de relevo para as frases interrompidas por um recorrente “mas” no início da obra e para algumas construções frásicas pouco fluídas, como a que acima se transcreve....
Any yet, this was one of the things I really enjoyed about this story.It is a bit convoluted and over the top in some ways.
The backstory of what happened to Lisbeth is greatly expanded in this book and it talks about another case where identical mirror image twins were separated at birth to study the difference between genetics and traits learned in the environment.
Is that true?I rounded up to 4 stars because I loved the original series so much and this took me back into that world in an entertaining way.
This fifth book of Lizbeth Salander, two not written by the original writer, is fun enough to keep on reading without any reservation, but not deep enough or creative enough to break any new ground.Indeed, a lot of the plot elements are DIRECT REPEATS of the first three books.Not that I'm complaining.
In fact, these laid-back observations, theoretically relaxing check-ins to a prison system to catch up on quantum loop theory is kinda awesome.Woe to anyone actively abusing a broken woman in the cells nearby!There's just a TAD reveal about Lizbeth in this one.
This novel could almost do without Lizbeth.The best part of the novel is pretty much the new characters.
I will read any Millenium book David Lagercrantz will put out there, because however much fun rereading the trilogy is, I would like to know what she’s been up to and up against since.“The Girl Who Takes an Eye for an Eye” takes us further into Listeth’s past and the history behind her famous dragon tattoo but also shows us the consequences of all the crazy actions she undertook to protect the amazing autistic boy, August, in the previous novel.
It’s practically a story about the “search for origins” and you get the feeling that while looking into her own troubled past Lisbeth is no longer “the girl” we met in Stieg Larsson’s first book.
Review to come!! I had the fantastic opportunity to interview David Lagercrantz on the newest Millennium novel - read that interview here: http://crimebythebook.com/blog/2017/9...
