https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/24736.World_s_End
That I cannot really retell his story, that it takes a few reels of memory to place exactly when I fell for this novel hard is incredible!I cannot describe the feeling of the book.
Boyle understands the American question (which is twofold--leave to embrace the ghosts of the past, or proceed unto the uncertain terrains of the future?); he gives himself fully to a story that occurs in the 1980's & concurrently three centuries before.
Perhaps I needed some time to digest this novel.
At the beginning of the book, there is a list of characters- and it exists with a good reason.
I felt that the only way I could read this novel was by devoting my complete concentration to it.
It is a depressive read.World's End tells the story of several generations of three families living in the Hudson valley area.
World's End did make me think of Faulkner and his family sagas a number of times.
This perhaps gives this novel its 'nightmare' feel.Now, let's get back to the good things about this book.
It's funny, I just looked back at my review for Drop City, and somehow I want to write almost an identical review for this book even though the story is totally different.
For me, reading Boyle is really not so much about the quality of the story he tells, but rather the way he tells it like no one else.
It's hard to really describe what Boyle does with these folks, but in one family line the characters keep being stricken with a desire to eat everything in sight.
I am a huge TC Boyle fan.
World's End won the Pen/Faulkner Award for him early in his career.
were to their own kind, how mistreated the Indians were and how abusive the 60s could be a few centuries later, although my favorite for that topic is his Drop City.
I think he's a genius for tying it all together.
My favorite is still Tortilla Curtain (when is someone going to make a movie of it?!); however, World's End will stay with me for a long time.
I will never visit NYC and its environs without thinking about it.
I found myself re-reading a few previous pages at each sitting.That being said, Boyle is a writer that any and every reader should experience.
I really dislike when he uses un-necessary "big words" (I really dislike anybody who does this), which he seems to do a little more than normal in this book.I love the unfolding plot of interconnected ideas, people, places and fates that Boyle lays out for the reader.
The complexity of time-frames, plots and interlocked characters might be a bit much depending on how busy you are when you pick it up.
Dramatic, hilarious and harrowing tales of parallel fates of many generations of Dutch, English and Native Americans from colonial New Amsterdam/New York to 1960's Peterskill.
TC Boyle mixes expert storytelling with fascinating accounts of the history of the Hudson River Valley.
His accounts of daily life under Dutch feudalism in New Amsterdam (well before the arrival/rule of the English) are unforgettable.
Boyle's writing is fantastic - juxtaposing grand, classical language with a hilarious sort of faux-nihilism that is particular to his protagonist, Walter.
Overall, this book reminded me of a Hugo novel, with its grandiose effects, theatrical characters and loads of suspense that bring history to life.
For some unknown reason award committees often seem to gravitate toward overblown works of fiction.
World’s End, set in the Hudson River valley, goes back and forth between the late-1600s and the mid-1900s to the 1960s covering generations of the same families.
One powerful family, the Van Warts, feudal land-owners, first control the land and those who live on it, and later provide abysmal factory jobs.
It was a tough and violent book and I could not wait for it all to end.
It just didn’t work for me.
I really liked The Road to Wellvilleand loved The Women but this book just didn’t grab me.
Historical fiction with heft, trundling over more than three hundred years of Hudson River upper class oppression and, more importantly, individual acts of self-destruction. Van Wartville is kind of like a hybridization of Rensselaerswyck and Cortlandt Manor, of the Van Rensselaers and Van Cortlandts. The Arcadia and its folk singer champion are obvious foils of Pete Seeger and the Clearwater. One of the most gripping historical renderings is of the 1949 Peekskill riots, where the outpouring of violence, hatred, and fear is sickening yet absorbing.
Reading this book and blending the engrossing story with the actual experience of modern Dutch country living, rumination on historical Dutch country living and a previous intimate connection with small scale farming in rural NY has lit several small fires in my brain.I hadn't read any T.C. Boyle previously and I found the writing style a little hard to get into at first.
Last summer I read Bleeding Kansas by Sarah Peretsky which has a similar theme of tracking different families throughout time in a small town while showing how traumatic historical events can continue to shape the future.
Same Grecian vacation.
I was on a T.C. Boyle kick.
While the last 100 or so pages got a bit muddled, it's still worth it, as Boyle always is.
When people name the best writers working today, Boyle is on my list.
I can't think of anyone else who reinvents himself so successfully from book to book and story to story.
Each time, it's like reading a completely different writer - and they're all great writers.
I'd recommend all his books, and I think I have read them all.
But I wouldn't recommend them all to the same people.
He puts it all down -- each of the 450 pages of this novel reads like a short story, with pauses for character development -- and observations that are always sharp.This novel is about the Hudson Valley, and, although T.C. Boyle has a little bit of ironic distance between himself and his characters, it is clear that he loves the area and that he feels deeply the historic roots of the area -- how, at one time, it was the World's End. Hudson Valley folks should read this novel if inclined.
Very disappointing. Straightly after finishing the fantastic Greasy Lake story collection, I was not expecting this. Read the first 100 pages and still have no clue what the book id about. So far a loose collection of anekdotes, unnecessary diversions, three different era's that are not (yet) related except for the genealogy. Too many metaphores. An omniscient narrator who clearly is very satisfied with himself. Not for me!
He attempts to find out what happened to his father and why his father abandoned him.T.C. Boyle then switches between Walter's story in the present, Walter's Dutch ancestors in colonial America before the English took over, and sometimes goes into the story of the Communist raids in the 1950s.
The character list is long and wide, but Boyle has a list explaining everyone in the beginning of the novel.
What I loved about the novel the most is its mix of historical fiction with family drama in the present.
I spent my youth hiking its hills, sitting on it's cliffs and looking over the mighty Hudson River across to Breakneck ridge, just a few miles away from World's End. There was something special about the region that you feel as a child but can't fully grasp until later in life.
In the decade and a half since moving away, i find myself forever drawn back to the mid hudson valley...either in dreams, thoughts, stories.
My soul is attached to the river and the mountains protecting it like the acient stone walls that still mark the old property lines.
I read this book a long time ago, probably not too long after it came out in 1990.
I gave this book four stars because I can still remember it 20 years later.
Evison places his "years later" section in 2006, Boyle has his modern day portion take place in an era twenty years in the past, which may be why I found the 20th century parts of his novel more interesting than the 21st century parts of Evison's book.Anyway, it was a good read then, and seeing as how it's historical on both ends of the timeline, it shouldn't sound dated.
It tracks the journeys of three families: one family of poor farmers (having fled the Netherlands) who live on the estate of the 2d, wealthy family, and a 3d quietly surviving Native American family.
The struggles of the poor family seem severe and harsh, but light when compared to that of the Native American lineage.
The wealthy family has it's own pains, but again, the comparison is not well matched with the destitute lives beneath it.
This was a great long read to delve into on my return from the fabulous Netherlands.
IMHO, it's TC Boyle's best work.
Amazing in scope (sheer number of characters has it's own reference index), poignant in prose and story telling, and extremely entertaining.
Highly recommended if you like this author, and if you prefer his earlier work (I do)then this is Boyle at the height of his considerable powers.
At times, yes, the story drags a little.
Water Music is close to this work in sheer quality...however THAT book felt more like a modern retelling of Oliver Twist at times.
A long but entertaining work this is.
Miserable, horrid, weak characters abounded.
Most of them you would order out of your house.
Still, the great writing and sheer joy of reading the words kept me moving through the book.
Unlike other books I have enjoyed by this author, I can't say I'll ever read this book again, but the book performed hard enough to captivate my imagination.
This book offered me the joy of word smithing, the rapture of each word offering power and substance.
Too many authors build card houses.
T.C. builds fantastical Gaudi fantasies.For that I forgive him his wretched characters.
T.C. Boyle is a great reader's author without being pulpy.
There are lots of characters, and lots of time shifts between chapters, but Boyle is able to tie it all together into a great story about the oft-untold colonial influence in our own country, involving wealthy Dutch landowners, Native Americans, poor sharecroppers, and a rebellious youth in the 1970's.
If it sounds kind of crazy, it is, but Boyle is a master of compelling storywriting, and this is a good one.
I thoroughly enjoyed the gift of language Boyle exhibited with this novel. The connection of the past and present is a perceptive view of worry and anxiety. The underlying fear each man of each generation carried seems to be what killed him, leaving the question of fate vs. destiny, or nature vs. nurture open. Great book: it delves into my type of psyche. Love it.
Walter's search takes him as far as Barrow on the extreme north coast of Alaska.Boyle swathes deftly , backwards and forwards in time, revealing key details in the long complex histories of the rival Dutch families, as well as an English family called Crane and several Indian connections.The mysteries, the answers sought by Walter, are slowly uncovered in a succession of fascinating tales involving Walters, Wouters, Jeremys and Jeremiahs, a range of Kitchawank and other native characters, including examples of interbreeding, and the various, mostly Dutch, women that accompany, support and love them.The plot is extensive and impossible to summaries in a brief review, but Boyle manages to incorporate many key elements of American history into the story, from early colonization through to the "communist threat" and the Vietnam War.But it is the quality of the writing that is the key to the novel's brilliance.
Some people, a lot of people, clearly like this book and more power to them, but I'm most definitely not one of them. I found this book agonizingly dull, full of boring, vaguely unpleasant people doing boring, vaguely unpleasant things to other people for boring, vaguely unpleasant reasons. Reading this book was like walking on a treadmill in a 90-degree gym with somebody hitting you in the face with a fresh catfish at random intervals - pointlessly unpleasant and justified only by a lingering sense that putting up with it all is somehow good for you.
Wow. That was a whirlwind ride of a book. I really enjoyed the back and forth narration between the past and present. The way that the past manifested itself in the present and vice versa was slightly eerie. The sins of the fathers, as it were. History repeating itself, ad infinitum. This generational tale is still swirling around in my brain. I have not read anything quite like this book.
undeniably a boyle. elaborately written, versed in the art of narration, w/ the odd twist. very worthwhile.
And in this novel, I think I've gotten a little better understanding of what categorizes a novel from "a good read" to "classic literature." For one, the characters aren't just characters, they stand for something much bigger than themselves, something human and understood about our nature.
So, characters in "literature" exist in two realms: the figurative, emblematic world of metaphor and meaning; and the tangible, lifelike realm of experience and reality.
But I've seen enough good in the world to think that a work of literature should have a gleaming hint of that hopefulness somewhere in its pages.
Was die Lektüre anstrengend macht, ist die Vielzahl von Personen und die steten Zeitsprünge.Boyle beschreibt die Geschichte zweier Familien in einem Abstand von rund 300 Jahren, sodass es vier verschiedene Erzählstränge gibt, die sich jedoch immer wieder überschneiden.
Da die Geschichte zudem immer wieder auf realen Begebenheiten beruht, die ich selbst aber nur unvollständig (oder kaum) kannte, habe ich mich auch wiederholt über die tatsächlichen Vorgänge informiert, da Manches schlicht kaum zu glauben ist.
Somit ist die Lektüre dieses Buches nicht nur unterhaltsam, sondern ganz nebenbei erfährt man noch eine Menge über die Anfänge der Besiedlung in den USA ebenso wie über die Hippiezeit.
From about 50 pages into this novel, you know that the two storylines are going to connect at the end.
You have a very good understanding how well before that, but you're not exactly sure how it's all going to play out for the "villain" of the story, Depeyster Van Wart.
I found myself wanting to get through the chapters on Walter's misadventures to get to the more interesting historical conflict between the tenant van Brunts and the patroon Van Warts.
I had never read Boyle before, but hope to do so again.
The book deals with the intertwined lives of several Dutch and Indian families in Upper Westchester County.
Flipping back and forth in time from the late seventeenth century to the twentieth century, it illuminates the relationships between the aristocrats, the lower class whites and the Indians.
But if you enjoy over the top characters, fantastic situations, and earthy writing, have at it.
One warning: I found the book enormously confusing because of its construction.
The author jumps back and forth in time frequently as he develops each subplot.
Many of the characters are interrelated, and the names can be similar, if not identical.
It had characters I loved because I wanted them to be my friends.
It had characters I loved to hate because they were so arrogant and selfish.
Boyle wove together stories that took place over 200 years apart and made it feel seamless.A few days ago I posted a review for another book and complained that the author wrote in a way that made me feel stupid.
Part of my evidence was that he used so many words I didn't know.
This author used equally as many unknown words but not once did it make me feel stupid.
This book is spectacular, but it really requires your undivided attention to realise it.
Telling the story of multiple generations of dutch families in the Hudson Valley of New York, it's a huge mish mash of similar sounding names and flits between periods like no man's business.
While this structure meant it wasn't quite ideal vacation reading, I was fully absorbed for multiple 4 hour plus road trips, and by the end couldn't put the book down.
In this way it's quite similar to "The History of Love," but less clumsily handled and far more involved.
Give it your full attention and you won't regret it.
