https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15994634-z
You might appreciate knowing a little bit more about what went into the creation of the novel, and why I chose to write fiction about people whose lives are so thoroughly documented in biographies.
My personal approach to biographical fiction is to unearth and then represent the truth, even when it contradicts what people think they know about the characters involved.
My mission was to set the record straight.Popular culture (Midnight in Paris, for one example) has made Zelda into a caricature, reduced her to being only an edgy flapper, or only an unstable, jealous spouse, or only a pathetic, "insane" drain of her husband's creativity and life.
These years were followed by the long decline of their relationship, exacerbated by their peripatetic lifestyle, Scott's worsening alcoholism, and Zelda's troubles with what may or may not have been mental illness.Fowler takes us back in time and lets us hang out with these people and see the challenges and temptations they faced as products of their era.
If you've read much nonfiction about her, you may find yourself puzzling over why certain key people and events were barely mentioned or entirely left out of this novel.You may also find, as I did, that the way Fowler portrays Zelda does not match your interpretation of her personality.
This is how Zelda herself writes Scott’s dialogue in her own novel Save Me the Waltz - "If you would stop dumping ash trays before the company has got well out of the house we would be happier.” That’s sophisticated dialogue – there’s psychology and wit in it.
Of course another huge problem is Scott wrote about Zelda so much that there are many instances when Fowler is describing scenes he has written beautifully into his books and needless to say she never comes out of these comparisons well.
To write a convincing novel about Scott and Zelda you’d have to be as artistically gifted as they were.
Flat-out terrible. Full of anachronisms and totally wrong speech patterns, and even worse, Scott and Zelda don't sound like themselves at all, and the author wrote pale unconvincing imitations of their letters when volumes of them are available! So disappointing. Not recommended at all.SAMPLE DIALOGUE: "I went to the window. 'I never woulda thought it. Not like this.' I turned back toward him. 'You're sorta impressive.'"
"Marry me, Zelda. We'll make it all up as we go.""Have another glass of champagne and tell me more.""You'll make it worth my while, right?"That's it: my whole review. I'll be over here crying in the corner if you need me.And just in case there was anyone who thought my heart wasn't sufficiently broken this year, Hadley Hemingway showed up here again to make sure it stayed broken. Stop whatever you're doing and go read this, then watch Midnight in Paris then embarrass yourself over twitter by picking a fight with a very confused Tom Hiddleston.Maybe not the last part.
I read this book for my A-Z book title challenge.
Zelda was a fascinating women with bipolar disorder, but most of the book was before her hospitalizations.
All I knew about her before the book was that she was married to Scott and had mental health troubles and was in and out of hospitals.
She was always trying to push the roles of women and change the expectations that society had.It was a very fascinating book that I learned a lot from.
I highly suggest everyone read this book :)Thank you to all my goodreads' friends that suggested this book to me for my A-Z challenge!
If she'd left Scott, the law denoted that she would lose her daughter so she stayed but immersed herself in her art and her ballet.
I wonder what woman she might have been if born into a time when the law was kinder and more just to women and she'd had a dependable husband.
I'm a bit jealous of Therese Anne Fowler that she had got to peruse documents between Zelda and Fitzgerald; I'd love to have seen the real thing.
I don't know enough about Zelda Fitzgerald to assess the accuracy her characterisation as a sensitive and intelligent woman unable to achieve her potential because of the repression of women in marriage in particular and society in general.
Further, even though the dialogue is marginally less flat than that in The Paris Wife, Zelda generally sounds less like a real person and more like the author's idea of her.
Hilary Mantel is the writer who converted me to the idea that this kind of historical fiction could be as or even more compelling than a good biography.
This is such a good book about someone that has often been maligned after her untimely death.When I was in high school, I read a non-fiction book of love letters between Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald.
You could see that Scott and Zelda really loved each other but that their relationship was not really healthy for either of them.
I loved that the book was told from the point of view of Zelda.
He had an incredible ego and seemed to get off on showing how much more successful he was than Zelda (fun fact: some of Zelda's stories were published under Scott's name and he had absolutely no problem taking credit).
I started out with such high hopes: I love Zelda Fitzgerald and I was excited to read a book about her!
But the Zelda I knew and loved was not in this book.
For all her flaws, Zelda Sayre Fitzgerald was a complete original, a fabulous woman with a tragic ending, a Flapper who lived better and worse than anyone else, and that is the woman I wanted to read about.
On Completion:By the end of the book my heart melted and I did feel empathy for Zelda.
Originally the view was that Scott was a writing failure and Zelda was to blame.
Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald as its source.Into which camp you fall will probably be influenced by how you view Hemingway.
Hemingway!The book accurately details the known events of Scott's and Zelda's life together.
It concludes with the death of Scott, but an afterword fills in with facts about the remaining eight years of Zelda's life, her death and information about their daughter.There is little humor in the book.
It is always great to read about this time period, all these writing greats, and always I am left wondering how if they were all forever broke, they managed to drink constantly and travel always.
Of course it was hard to read of Zelda, her psyche crumbling and diagnosis of schizophrenia, her years in a mental facility.This is a well written book about interesting people who wrote many of the classics that are still revered today.
Will appeal to readers of this time period and the authors that became famous from this group.
The first part of this book was delightful.
Zelda came across as a very engaging, fun character and the story romped along with her.
The last part of the book is where the reader sits up and becomes angry on behalf of poor Zelda and what she has to go through.
This is a fiction story based on information about their life together but I am not familiar with what really happened so cannot comment on the truth of it all.
My Fitzgerald fascination began almost 30 years ago as a student when I read The Great Gatsby, This Side of Paradise and Tender is the Night swiftly followed up by Nancy Milford's excellent biography of Zelda.
This new novelisation of Zelda's life is perfectly timed to coincide with the latest movie adaptation of The Great Gatsby and will hopefully stir more interest in this flawed but fascinating couple.On the surface Zelda seems like a spoiled Southern gal with a taste for the finer things in life but she isn't a celebrity bimbo and underneath that sparkling flapper exterior lurks a razor sharp intellect.
“SO WE BEAT ON,BOATS AGAINST THE CURRENT,BORNE BACK CEASELESSLY INTO THE PAST" The young Scott Fitzgerald at only twenty-three years of age had been the youngest writer ever to publish a novel with Scribner. He fell in love with the youthful and joyful young southern girl Zelda. It all seemed quite a fairytale arrangement, an officer and a gentleman, youth, fame, and art. The pursuit of his art and his writing life became quite a stumbling block in Zelda’s life especially when she became a moth

To me, this was a lovely and intriguing story that carried me away to a different time and different places.
What I find most fascinating is how Zelda seems a little out of place during the era she lived in.
Nevertheless, this book is brilliant if you want to get better acquainted with the Fitzgerald’s works as it gives you a good feeling of the circumstances and time during which they both lived and worked as writers/artists.
in college, he did a paper on F Scott Fitzgerald; and over the years he has talked about Zelda being this mad woman who was insanely jealous of Scott’s success, etc.
Scott had to find other drinking partners, one of which was Ernest Hemingway, who Zelda hated and blamed for the further break in the marriage.
This book may make one wonder if it really was schizophrenia, or just the fact that she didn’t fit the norm of what a wife should be, and even if Scott just didn’t feel better about himself with her confined and out of the way.
I'm prefacing this review with the disclaimer that I acknowledged this book as a work of fiction right from the get go and relaxed into it as such.
The Book Itself:  Fowler takes us from the early courtship of Zelda and Fitzgerald through their wanderings of Europe and ultimate return to the states.
I was captivated by the parties, the clothes, the discussions on writing, societal customs, Zelda's art and dance, and ultimately with the couple themselves.
Hence my new 2017 study into the couple's lives and works.
So I'm incredibly appreciative to Fowler for this book as it is opening my literary experience.
e sulla quale i pareri dei contemporanei (hemingway prima di tutti) sono passati dall'affinità all'antipatia, e sono stati parecchio controversi: zelda ora vittima di fsf, ora pazza scatenata.in questo libro speravo di trovare qualche spunto al di fuori dei cliché sull'età del jazz, sui belli e dannati, su quelli che non si sono fermati di qua dal paradiso, ma hanno fatto andata e ritorno uscendone mitici ma parecchio malconci.zelda di therese anne fowler, invece, di cliché ne ha a bizzeffe e si ferma nella categoria di leggibile romanzo basato su numerosi fatti, molte lettere e moltissimo tempo - sostiene l’autrice - dedicato allo studio.
nulla di più.rifletto poi che la mamma del mio amico è stata a sua volta, in effetti, donna molto disinibita e molto progressista.
I happened to be in NYC for the last chunk of the book and got to see St. Patrick's Cathedral and Scribner's old building-- which is where Scott and Zelda married and then headed to Scribner's to see Scott's first published book!The author did a brilliant job researching and bringing Zelda to life without tarnishing her reputation.
I end this book desperate to read more about this couple and their lives...The only downside was that I felt the ending was a bit rushed, the way the rest of the book was written pulled me to a point, where I couldn't wait to see what was going to happen, and then it all spewed out over a few pages.
Even now, I wouldn't choose differently than I did. For me, this was a fascinating biography. I entered it with little knowledge of anything beyond the works of her husband, F. Scott Fitzgerald. As it turns out, that gave me an insight into their lives for many of his stories were thinly veiled, fictionalized versions of his dreams and demons. A golden couple of the Jazz Age that skated the edge for too long, the stress of reality and the Great Depression inevitably took a toll on them emotiona
Zelda was a modern woman, who unlike many of her feminist friends, climbed into the cage of marriage not because she was stupid, but because like many women who do, she loved Scott.
For years, Zelda wrote short stories to help finance the family coffers and from the start the editor said they could get more money if they sold them under Scott's name--so she did.
Their lives were a heroic and tragic, larger than life.Btw. Fowler claims this is not a biography rather a fictionalized imagining of what it was like to be Zelda, for simplicity's sake I have shelved it as such.
However, I felt that this was still an excellent account of Zelda Sayre's life, and the emotions and thought processes depicted came across as very honest and real.This novel made me almost spit with anger at points internally on the lack of support and encouragement Zelda received throughout her life, particularly from her husband.
It was good to see things from an alternate point of view, and find out a little more about the "real" Zelda Fitzgerald, who was more than just a wife and mother.I really want to read some of the source material that Fowler used, such as the letters between Zelda and Scott themselves.
3.5 StarsZelda Fitzgerald is someone everyone views differently and this book is no exception. RTC
It revealed more details about Scott and Zelda's screwed up lives and sadly lacking characters than I wanted to know.
But, those serious conditions aren't the problem with Zelda and Scott - it's their plethora of personality and character flaws that make them like a Monet painting (and I'm stealing this from the film, "Clueless") - beautiful from a distance, but once you get up close, a big old mess!
I'm sure that Therese Anne Fowler researched the Fitzgeralds' lives - there are many people who knew them 'back in the day,' and their daughter was alive until fairly recently.
Misdiagnosed with schizophrenia (Fowler believes that she was most likely bipolar), Zelda spent many years in and out of institutions, suffering at the hands of overzealous doctors and harsh treatments such as electro-schock therapy.Amazingly, through all this, the couple managed to successfully raise a daughter, Scottie, and Zelda even became a somewhat successful writer herself, much to the chagrin of Scott."Z" is a good read, especially for those unfamiliar with the lives of the Fitzgeralds, and it is probably a good starting point for delving into the number of biographies about both Zelda and Scott.
There are so many legends and larger than fact stories about this couple yet, in “Z”, they come across as human and not stereotypes due to Fowler’s skill.
Zelda was eccentric (some would say mentally ill instead or in addition) but her longings were still based in real talent(s).
Zelda was a writer, artist and dancer as well as wife, mother, and principal cheerleader to her husband’s ambition.It’s hard to separate out their quirky personalities from the alcohol that fueled their behaviors.
I kept wondering what Zelda would have done with her life if she’d been born in more modern times.
I'm not good at reviewing books, basically I just write my thoughts to look back on.This is a work of fiction told in the voice of Zelda Fitzgerald.
After reading The Great Gatsby & The Paris Wife I wanted to know more about Scott & Zelda Fitzgerald.
I also enjoyed the beautiful descriptive writing of Montgomery, AL, Paris, Antibes, I love when the writing is so great you feel as if you're there.
Our ruts were now so deeply cut into the landscape, and we were so tired and worn, that neither Scott nor I could steer ourselves anyplace new."Zelda Fitzgerald
And I mean that in both a negative and a positive way.
It amazes me how different life was for a woman back then.
I couldn't even imagine living that way.
There were many instances where my heart broke for Zelda and many of those instances occurred simply because she was a woman.
Even so, Zelda is portrayed as a strong woman who was likely misunderstood.
In this book we are able to see some happy times along with the troubled times.
I think Fowler did a great job representing Zelda's possible point of view throughout this book.
Fowler had me believing she was Zelda herself.
In her fictional dramatization of actual events, Fowler tells Zelda’s story the way Zelda herself might have told it, rather than letting her historical definition come from urban legend and a mysteriously pissy Ernest Hemingway.
Fowler’s story, a giant flashback, takes readers back to Montgomery, Alabama, where young Zelda Sayre, daughter of the local judge, is a rip-roaring good-time girl.
She gets to the epicenter of Zelda’s complex relationship and sanity and vision of herself rather than just rattling off something more like Zelda Fitzgerald fan fiction that really just stars a character with a famous name doing the same things that her inspiration did.
I can't help but think Zelda would be mortified at the thoughts this woman put into her head.
The portrait of this extraordinarily talented and troubled woman read like the inner life of a staid, matronly conformist upset that her husband was an alcoholic philanderer who stole her best writing.
I don't give it more because it doesn't seem possible that Zelda was thinking the thoughts that this author put in her head.
I didn't like the way the author stressed about how to write a historical fiction; he had to put thoughts in Heydrich's head and words in his mouth without knowing exactly what had been thought or said.
