https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32148091-the-silent-corner
This is the best Koontz novel I have read in a very long time.
After Jane’s decorated husband commits suicide, she detects a noticeable uptick in suicides, prompting her to do a little research into the matter.
The pacing is very brisk, with little down time along the way, the plot is very well constructed, with most of the I’s dotted and t’s crossed.
But, because I was so relieved this book didn’t suck, like so many of Koontz recent offerings, I was willing to overlook a lot of that pandering, and slick production, which deprived the novel of a certain level of grittiness that would have served it well, in my opinion.
Also thanks to Dustin Crazy little brown owl - moderator of Koontzland - the definitive Koontz Goodreads group - for hosting the giveaway where I won this book.Right away in the intro to the ARC, Koontz says this is not like his normal writing.
But, he does mention Golden Retrievers a couple of times!I am going with 4.5 stars on this one rounding up to 5 (since GR doesn’t do the half stars).
Even if you aren't a Koontz fan, I think you will like this.
He does this all the time in his books!
Things are going well for Jane Hawks when out of the blue her husband commits suicide.
She becomes aware that there are other talented people who have similarly committed suicide.
As she tried to get to the bottom of this horrifying phenomena, she finds herself going off the grid.
She is being hunted down by so many people who will do anything to eliminate her and Jane has problems in finding anyone she can trust.
This is a sinister story of lies, government corruption, espionage and a shocking conspiracy.The use of surveillance to track Jane down is an unsettling experience.
My five stars showed I really liked this new book by Dean Koontz.
The first book I ever read of his, Strangers is on my all-time top ten list.
Others I had a hard time finishing.Jane Hawk is on leave from the FBI, her husband Nick has committed suicide.
Nick, along with many others that Jane finds out about all seem to fit the category of "least likely to off themselves." Jane is determined to find out why.
His depiction of Jane's efforts to stay off the grid, and how it is almost impossible to do do so was fascinating.
When I was in high school I somehow came to hold the fervent belief that one couldn’t be a fan of both King and Koontz, so I checked out a book by each from the library to help me choose a side.
But the Koontz book was The Taking, which I’ve since read nearly half a dozen times and still consider a favorite.
After reading The Silent Corner, I’ve come to think that my teenage belief that one couldn’t love both authors might have some truth to it, at least for me.
He's one of my favorite authors, in fact; though I am unafraid to be honest when I feel he hasn't put forth much effort or a story simply falls flat (which is natural with any writer who has been in the game as long as he has), and The Silent Corner is no dud.
Yet, this book still manages to stand on its own and is very relevant in today's culture.The Silent Corner is the first in a new series from Koontz which stars Jane Hawk, the most delightfully badass character I have read about in some time.
Jane was convinced she had the perfect life.
On leave from the FBI, she searches for answers to this bizarre epidemic.
One fact she finds most disturbing… many of these suicides were well-adjusted, successful people who showed no previous sign of depression or any hint of their intentions...exactly like her husband.Jane has changed her looks, gone underground and made herself untraceable.
Even though it could easily cost Jane her life.THEY are after her...whoever THEY are...Nonstop action.
Jane is running for her life as she seeks the dark truth behind these suicides.
Leaving bodies, cars and coyotes in her wake.
I very much need to be dead.The Silent Corner is a new series from Dean Koontz which introduces a strong female lead character, FBI agent, Jane Hawk.
There are those in power who would do anything to stop her from finding out the truth.I have not read a Dean Koontz book in quite some time.
Often I will read a book which is part of a series, and even if I read a book out of order, the book feels like a stand alone novel for me.
This book did not feel like a stand alone novel as there was no resolution.
She is on leave from the FBI and off the grid to investigate her husbands suspicious death.
Nick has committed suicide, but he had everything to live for and Jane is determined to use her experience and talents to uncover the truth concerning his death.
She soon discovers a pattern of other suicides that appear as suspicious as Nicks.
She runs, she hides, she investigates, she uncovers evidence.
This first book in the series is action packed and leaves you rooting for Jane to uncover the truth.
I am looking forward to the next book in the Jane Hawk series.Thanks to netgalley, the publisher and Dean Koontz for the arc.
I received this ARC from netgalley.com in exchange for a review.
FBI Agent Jane Hawks is sure someone is killing people and making it look like suicide, including her husband.
Now she must find and prove the truth before they find her.I didn't like this book too much and was mostly bored with the story.
Jane is a strong heroine but I didn't fall in love or sympathize with her character.
There were obscure references (like one to Hester Prynne) that didn't relate to anything else, as if the remarks were 'filler'.
I was disappointed that the book didn't have the trademark Koontz 'weirdness' about it.
To be honest, it all rang pretty false to me, especially the part that “they” were extending her “professional courtesy” trying to get her to back away from her investigation rather than just flat out killing her if they're that diabolical.
I like the odd science fiction book.
Or coincidences that pile up, one on top of the other, like finding just the right person to help at each turn.I give Koontz credit.
This is a fast paced book with no downtime.
He goes into enough detail to make a person think, in the way a good science fiction book does.
My not particularly liking this book is entirely my fault.
The latest from Dean Koontz and the start of a new series featuring Jane Hawk, an FBI agent.
I like Koontz best for his supernatural stories but this mystery / thriller was good too.Jane Hawk is an excellent new character for a series.
In this book she is in a position where she is on the run and unable to trust anyone even her fellow FBI agents.
That part is a bit scary especially the way it happens to one of the characters very late in the book.Altogether I found it an excellent read.
The Hook I've read many books by Dean Koontz and have enjoyed most.
Fans often want the same ol' and don't take kindly to a book going in a new direction.
But for every light, there seemed to be someone bent on extinguishing it.” The Sinker - This is the first of four in the Jane Hawk Series.
Jane is going to find out.
She has a lovely speaking voice.
Koontz has gained many new fans with this series.
It is different for certain but like one of my GR friends, Matthew said, Koontz did manage a few Golden Retrievers to pepper the plot.
If I had to describe the book in just a few words, it would be Sarah Connor meets Jason Bourne in a fight to protect the future of the world (and yes, it would make a great movie, hint, hint).A recent and still grieving widow, Jane has taken a leave of absence from the FBI to deal with her husband's suicide - which she doesn't believe for a nanosecond really happened.
As she begins to make some headway, though, Jane realizes there's no one she can trust - not in the government, not among friends and relatives and most certainly not among the ranks of the FBI.
A lot of things sickened her these days, and yet she didn’t spend any time throwing up. That quote sums up our heroine, Jane, in this book. She lost her husband to suicide and (view spoiler)[had to leave her child (hide spoiler)] only a few months ago, but she is hard as a rock and is difficult to connect with emotionally because of it. In this book, we journey with Jane as she searches for answers behind her husband's death. There is a lot of action, and a lot of characters who make brief app
That quote sums up our heroine, Jane, in this book.
She lost her husband to suicide and (view spoiler)[had to leave her child (hide spoiler)] only a few months ago, but she is hard as a rock and is difficult to connect with emotionally because of it.
In this book, we journey with Jane as she searches for answers behind her husband's death.
There is a lot of action, and a lot of characters who make brief appearances, and yet I had no strong feelings for any of the characters in this book.
3.5 stars, just missing 4 stars due to a slow moving plot in the first half.I’m a long-time fan of Koontz, having read and enjoyed nearly everything he’s written.
As she investigates, she finds her life in danger from people who will stop at nothing to prevent her from discovering the truth.
Staying ahead of the bad guys is challenging and provides much of the edge-of-your seat action.The book starts off with a bang and then gets bogged down by wordy descriptive writing.
Then at around 65% it was non-stop action and I couldn’t put the book down.
For that you’ll have to read the next book in the series.
It's just more of his suspense/thriller mess he has been writing for a while now.The main character was pretty freaking souless (Jane Hawk) and I just didn't care anymore what happened to her or her kid that she stashes all over the place while taking down the super secret organization.Maybe the book would have worked better if we actually had Koontz setting up the book enough to get us to care about her and her husband.
The book flip flops back and forth with Jane outrunning the bad guys and the FBI and a lot of looking evil in the face things happening.
This reminded me of Robin Cook, Michael Crichton, or Ira Levin.Jane Hawk takes a leave of absence from her job as an FBI agent after her husband commits suicide.
She files for an extension of her leave of absence, liquidates her assets, puts her son in hiding, and goes off the grid so that she can continue her investigation.This is another story of how technology in the wrong hands is destroying society.
At times I was wondering where does she keep all of this cash?All in all an entertaining story.
I really enjoyed THE SILENT CORNER.
This is the first time I'm reading a Dean Koontz novel and I can tell you now it won't be my last.
Koontz writes a memorizing and riveting tale that just grabs the reader in its clutches.I received this ARC copy of The Silent Corner from Random House Publishing Group - Ballantine - Bantan.
The Silent Corner is set for publication June 6, 2017.My Rating: 4 starsWritten by: Dean KoontzHardcover: 464 pagesPublisher: Bantam Publication Date: June 20, 2017ISBN-10: 0345545990ISBN-13: 978-0345545992Genre: Psychological ThrillersItunes: https://itunes.apple.com/us/book/the-...Amazon: https://www.amazon.com/Silent-Corner-...Barnes & Noble: https://www.barnesandnoble.com/w/the-...For Reviews : http://tometender.blogspot.com
This be me read for the July BookBum Club Challenge where the theme be “that is so last year – a book ye meant to read in 2017.” Well Dean Koontz is one of me favourite authors and was featured in Broadside No. 9 but I hadn’t read a book by him since 2011!
What I love about Dean Koontz is that he can write a fantastic thriller with sci-fi bits.
I certainly got what I wanted out of this book and will not be waiting another seven years to pick up another Dean Koontz book.
Wow, this one crazy, out there concept that humans could be programmed to hear a couple of words and then turn into robots and do what is asked of them.
This guy even had coyotes programmed to be watchdogs on his very private property in Napa.A freaky concept that had Jane Hawk looking for answers as to how her husband could be dancing and singing one minute and then slitting his throat in the bathtub the next.
The notes they leave before they commit the deed are VERY strange!I read this book in one sitting as I just could not put it down.
Koontz is one of my favourite authors, but I've not read any of his books for years.
Over the years, I have seen the 'series' of books become more and more popular with authors.
Having read The Silent Corner, I now have to wait months for the next instalment of the this trilogy, which I find so very annoying.Here we read about FBI agent Jane Hawk.
She sells her house, leaves her young son with friends, and goes under the radar to find the people responsible.On her route to discovering the truth, Jane ensnares people to help with her information gathering.
I read Lightning by Dean Koontz many, many years ago and since then I have loved Dean Koontz's books.
I was really thrilled to get the chase to read The Silent Corner, the first book in a new thriller series.The book starts off strong with the book's heroine Jane Hawk trying to find a reason for why her husband and several other people have committed suicide, despite never showing any sign of being depressed.
I love that the books start off strong, no slow starts to ease into the story.
Very disappointed, one of my favorite writers is Dean Koontz. This book just did not catch my interest at all.
Okay note the rating.
I know some of you will want a sort of bottom line on the book so, yep I like it.
I give it 5 stars and can recommend it.Now I'd like to say a few things about then book and about Dean Koontz.
First, I was introduced to Dean Koontz years ago (1970s).
I believe it was probably my late wife who got me to read his books.
At first back in the days of  ,  ,   and so on.
I was pretty much underwhelmed by most of the books.
They seemed often (to me) to be extended outlines or even
I give it 5 stars and can recommend it.Now I'd like to say a few things about then book and about Dean Koontz.
I do not go to movies or read books where the dog dies...or the cat.That does bring up a sore point as I love dogs and cats (my best friend in the world right now may be a cat) and Mr. Koontz tends to (at best) give short shrift to the cats.
Of course there are also the series books he's written a few seemed never to have had a resolution and we're still waiting (like the Moonlight Bay "trilogy".
Gordie was chained to it all his life, an optimist’s optimist.”When Jane Hawk’s husband commits suicide it isn’t just her grief nor denial driving her to find out what really happened.
What is terrifying about his latest novel is the reality, how someone can easily be turned into an enemy, a bad person to turn in, because they know secrets of powerful people.
This is dark, but the monsters are inside human beings.It’s impossible to review this story fully without giving away what happens.
Darn it, I didn’t want to get sucked into a series, but alas- it happened.Strange, creepy new novel from Koontz…Publication Date: June 6, 2017Random House Publishing Group- BallantineBantam
3.5Jane Hawk, an FBI agent, begins her own investigation, after she discovers an escalation in unexpected suicides, including her husband’s. The first book in a new series, The Silent Corner has a gripping plot and the right amount of suspense to make one want to read more. This said, some parts were a little slow and too unnecessarily descriptive and detailed. My favorite book by this author is still False Memory.
Koontz Group Read July 2017  Vampires, Weres and Fae  What happen to Inga A new Paramount TV series is coming with Jane Hawk - the FBI agent on leave. "The Silent Corner" starts the series, "The Whispering Room" is the second book, I don't see the 3rd book published yet?This book reminds me a little of Tess Gerritsen's "Rizzoli & Iles" books. Jane Hawk can be compared to Det. Jane Rizzoli, tough detective with gentle personality to help the innocent.Jane Hawk investigates increasing suicide
A new Paramount TV series is coming with Jane Hawk - the FBI agent on leave.
Jane Hawk can be compared to Det. Jane Rizzoli, tough detective with gentle personality to help the innocent.Jane Hawk investigates increasing suicides with intelligent people with great "accomplishments"!
She's on FBI leave of absence due to her husband's suicide, Lt.Col. Nick Hawk.
She goes to meet Gwyn Lambert(wife) whose husband, Gen.Gordon Lambert committed suicide but why does she commit suicide with Jane visiting?She reviews 10+ suicide notes of intelligent people with her past college Professor Steinitz, programmed instructions by someone or schizophrenia/mental illness in themselves?What is Silent Corner?
Twisty, relentless, smart. Jane Hawk is to die for. THE SILENT CORNER just became my new favorite Koontz novel.
The author introduces readers to the impressive, Jane Hawk: the first in the new series THE SILENT CORNER  —A tough, intelligent, courageous kick-ass heroine with all the skills of Lee Child's Jack Reacher, David Baldacci's Will Robie and then some, as she encounters ruthless, dangerous, and evil predators on her journey for justice.
“Those who are truly off the grid and cannot be tracked by any technology, yet are able to move about freely and use the Internet, are said to be in the silent corner.”A grieving widow, Jane Hawk.
Rumors have it Koontz plans to write at least five more books  featuring Jane Hawk, and the next in the series, The Whispering Room coming Nov 21, 2017.
