https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32649.Notebook_of_a_Return_to_the_Native_Land
while we handle quarters of earth, while we wed delirious continents, while we force steaming gates, words, ah yes, words!
However, there was so much power and imagery in Cesaire's words it was kind of hard not to be impressed by his use of metaphor and rhythm, especially in a subject that is close to my heart: colonialism.The poem is many things; for one, it's an angry attack on colonialism and slavery after Cesaire returned to Martinique after living in France.
This can lead to frustration, as this poem shows.
Haiti where negritude rose to its feet for the first time and said it believed in its own humanity; and the comic little tail of Florida where they are just finishing strangling a negro; Africa gigantically caterpillaring as far as the Spanish foot of Europe; the nakedness of Africa where the scythe of Death swings wide.Return to my Native Land by Aime Cesaire a single poem by the African activist.
Cesaire was born in the French Caribbean country of Martinique.
Cesaire captures his feelings and emotions on returning to his home country after studying in France.
Return to my Native Land (Cahier d'un retour au pays natal)  by Aimé Césaire is autobiographical poem, essay and a poetic manifesto deeply influenced by surrealism.I don't think I've ever quite read anything alike.
To quote Sartre: “A Césaire poem explodes and whirls about itself like a rocket, suns burst forth whirling and exploding like new suns—it perpetually surpasses itself.” Very true.I want to rediscover the secret of great speech and of great burning.
It's is easy to get lost in those sentences because one ends up marvelling at the words, the surreal, lustrous and lush language and the idiosyncratic terminology that Césaire employs.
And neither the teacher in his classroom, nor the priest at catechism will be able to get a word out
The lack of a full five is simply because you should read the bilingual edition instead, or the unexpurgated one - but, to be honest, anything is better the nothing at this point
Until the 19th century, Carribean voices were predominantly white and racist and when the first Black and mixed writers appeared, they were often imitators who hoped that their skin colour would be forgotten if they wrote like French people.
The word 'black' helped colonised people to unite and to build a sense of solidarity and political identity defined by common suffering.
Constituted of isolated communities with nothing in common but a past of slavery and colonisation, these English-speaking, French-speaking, American, European and African people whom history had called Blacks started pooling their resources in an attempt to 'decolonise the mind'.
A PRODUCT OF LITERARY FUSIONAime Cesaire's Return to My Native Land, one of the great prose-poetry works of the twentieth century, was parented by not one but three literary movements: the Negritude movement, the Harlem Renaissance, and French surrealism. The book's very rich suffusion of cultural and political nuances may be attributed to the Harlem Renaissance and the Negritude movement while its linguistic dexterity and philosophical daring would have to acknowledge some allegiance to French
A PRODUCT OF LITERARY FUSIONAime Cesaire's  Return to My Native Land, one of the great prose-poetry works of the twentieth century, was parented by not one but three literary movements: the Negritude movement, the Harlem Renaissance, and French surrealism.
The book's very rich suffusion of cultural and political nuances may be attributed to the Harlem Renaissance and the Negritude movement while its linguistic dexterity and philosophical daring would have to acknowledge some allegiance to French surrealism.
Like James Baldwin, Albert Camus, and Frantz Fanon in their various works, Cesaire in  Return to My Native Land take racism and class oppression to task at the same time that he delves most deeply into the greater nature of the human condition itself.
3.5/5  My negritude is not a stone, its deafness hurled against the clamor of the daymy negritude is not a leukoma of dead liquid over the earth's dead eyemy negritude is neither tower nor cathedralit takes root in the red flesh of the soilit takes root in the ardent flesh of the skyit breaks through opaque prostration with its upright patience. Yet another super short classic that translators and editors and introduction writers did their best to ruin. Unlike On the Abolition of All Political P
Aimé Césaire, the purported founder of negritude, poet, political party founder, mayor, a spark of hope in the swamp of Nazism, reduced to not being "agenda laden", as if deep seated and brilliant resistance to a genocidal prescription that spread worldwide and birthed a field of thought all its own could have come across without careful and critical "agenda laden" inspirations.
It's certainly what this work and Aimé Césaire deserve, as while they're rightfully famous in their own regard, it is a specific kind fame, as displayed by the relative neglect of them on this site.
Reading Challenge 2016.37.
Un libro de una cultura con la que no estás familiarizada/eres indiferente.
Y la voz pronuncia que Europa durante siglos nos ha cebado con mentiras e inflado con pestilencias, pues no es cierto que la obra del hombre ha culminado que nada tenemos que hacer en el mundo que parasitamos al mundo que nos basta marchar al mismo paso del mundo sino que la obra del hombre apenas acaba de empezar y al hombre le queda por conquistar toda prohibición inmovilizada en los rincones de su fervor y ninguna raza tiene el monopolio de la belleza, de la inteligencia, de la fuerza y hay lugar para todos al encuentro de la conquista y ahora sabemos que el sol gira alrededor de nuestra tierra iluminando la parcela fijada por nuestra sola voluntad y que toda estrella cae del cielo a la tierra a nuestra voz de mando ilimitada.
I would rediscover the secret of great communications and great combustions. I would say storm. I would say river. I would say tornado. I would say leaf. I would say tree. I would be drenched by all rains, moistened by all dews. I would roll like frenetic blood on the slow current of the eye of words turned into mad horses into fresh children into clots into curfew into vestiges of temples into precious stones remote enough to discourage miners. Whoever would not understand me would not understand any better the roaring of a tiger.
“Je viendrais à ce pays mien et je lui dirais: "Embrassez-moi sans crainte... Et si je ne sais que parler, c'est pour vous que je parlerai”
So good.What can I do?I must begin.Begin what?The only thing in the world that's worth beginning:The End of the World, no less.words, as yes, words! butwords of fresh blood, words which aretidal waves and erysipelasmalarias and lavas and bush-fires,and burning fleshand burning cities...Know this well:I never play except at the millenniumI never play except at the Great Fear
He writes, "do not make of me that man of hate for whom I have only hate." In one of the most impassioned and passionate poems of the twentieth century, Cesaire awakens in us a sense of hope and justice.
Looking to heal the wounds of centuries, Cesaire reminds the reader that "no race holds a monopoly of beauty, intelligence and strength." It is a courageous visionary mind that drives this poem, and a necessary and urgent voice.
It's also a war cry coming from the heart, and Cesaire's choice of weapon are words.
What I can only call Cesaire's "freedom rage" is expressed by the choice of getting free of traditional poetry rules.
I had to re-read it a few times to get used to the vocabulary and understand the nuances of Cesaire's message and still I feel like there are so many hidden clues I haven't deciphered yet.
It was published in 1939 and it may seem obsolete, but its message is universal and timeless for any oppressed group or individual: resignation is not an option.
I had a class on Aimé Césaire at university years ago.
I remember that reading Cahier d'un retour au pays natal was so difficult, but absolutely worthwhile.
I think I spent more time preparing for this class than for any of the other ones that year (well, probaly with the exception of Latin...if I happened to take both classes the same semester...I really don't remember).
That must have been the single most interesting class I had in French studies, not for any intersting discussions or analyses with/from students or lecturers (nope, certainly not with that bunch), but just for the genius work of Aimé Césaire.
pas toujours évident à lire, il y a des mots que je ne connaissais pas. métaphore préférée : "ce petit rien ellipsoïdal qui tremble à quatre doigts au-dessus de la ligne" (la Martinique, au-dessus de l'équateur).
Aime Cesaire is brilliant and beautiful. This prose poem shows a trajectory of self acceptance by moving from individual experience to universal experience. It is unpredictable in form, and highlights the varying black experience.
One of the absolute greatest long poems I've ever read. And, of course, one of the weirdest. I will soon re-read it again, and again.
A masterpiece. I'd like to read Eschleman's translation, as I read a different version.
Marvelous. Marvelous. I'd forgotten so many details about this poem. The facing edition is an angry pleasure for the tongue.

"I would rediscover the secret of great communications and great combustions. I would say storm. I would say river. I would say tornado. I would say leaf. I would say tree, I would be drenched by all rains, moistened by all dews. I would roll like frenetic blood on the slow current of the eye of words turned into mad horses into fresh children into clots into curfew into vestiges of temples into precious stones remote enough to discourage miners. Whoever would not understand me would not understand any better the roaring of a tiger."
I had to read this three times to really get a grip on it. The language is insane— super lush and evocative and visceral. The content will sucker punch you. The voice still feels so contemporary and prescient after all these years. I would recommend reading up a little on Aime Cesaire and the history of colonialism in Martinique before diving into this to provide some deeper context.
Lu d'une traite et je ne peux m'empêcher d'en relire certains passages plusieurs fois ces derniers jours. C'est fort, c'est beau, c'est un flot d'émotions autour de questions essentielles.
Another book I read for my "The Other Caribbean" English literature graduate course. Definitely a surrealistic sort of book. It left me with some interesting thoughts. Definitely a different tone from A Small Place. Although the speaker has returned from his time abroad. You can see the love he has for his birthplace. He is invested in it. Could it be because Martinique remained with the France as its protectorate position? I am not sure.
His word choices were unfamiliar and striking, an entire learning experience in itself.
“An indefatigable road charging at full speed a morne at the top of which it brutally quicksands into a pool of clumsy houses, a road foolishly climbing, recklessly descending, and the carcass of wood, which I call “our house,” comically perched on minute cement paws...”“The flowers of blood that fade and scatter in the empty wind like the cries of babbling parrots; an aged life mendaciously smiling, its lips opened by vacated agonies...”In comparison to most of the Western poetry I had been reading, what a remarkable change in the “why” we write poetry.
L’auteur retranscrit ses aventures à travers le monde d’une plume extraordinairement habile et musicale, avec une maîtrise de la langue française et une capacité à toucher les sens remarquables.
D’une part, le récit est un moyen d’émouvoir le lecteur sur la condition humaine, et notamment les souffrances physiques, sociales et philosophiques subies par la population noire depuis la traite négrière et l’esclavage, jusqu’à la décolonisation, en passant par la place de cette communauté dans la société moderne, autant de questions cruciales à la publication de l’ouvrage en 1939.
In his Cahier, he explores his roots in his native Martinique and looks with an often angry voice at the repression of his fellow islanders.
The Cahier is a poem directed at enlightening the views of his fellow countrymen and giving them a point at which to resist their colonial masters, to escape the bonds of Negrédom, the chains of slavery that bound them in the triangular slave trade culture and left them in the sugar cane fields of Martinique.
A founding father of the black movement in literature, Négritude, Césaire explores the roots of slavery and his négritude is a self-revealing look at how he is perceived by the world, due to his skin colour.
Ça m’a donné envie de lire Discours sur le colonialisme.Je vous laisse avec un extrait :«Et nous sommes debout maintenant, mon pays et moi, les cheveux dans le vent, ma main petite maintenant dans son poing énorme et la force n’est pas en nous, mais au-dessus de nous, dans une voix qui vrille la nuit et l’audience comme la pénétrance d’une guêpe apocalyptique.
I'm writing this review because I "finished" the poem, and I'm giving it four stars because it's powerful stuff, like Walt Whitman in how beautifully it ties together the political and the personal and the universal.I'm not gonna write much else, though, because I don't think I'm really finished with it.
There's a lot going on here.I'll just say this: I fucking cannot stand it when some white dingbat piece of shit goes on Fox News and starts talking about the glory of the white race, and how-- and this point is ALWAYS implied, even if it's not stated outright-- no race group can compare to what white people have "accomplished." Iowa Rep. Steve "Heap of Goat Turds" King is only the most recent moron to put forth these racist ideas; their history is long and detailed and pretty much implicates 99% of white people who have ever lived.
