https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51245.Amphigorey_Also
Anywhere you open up an Edward Gorey book, you will immediately be punched in the mouth by Rad. The highlight of this book was "The Sopping Thursday," the most powerful story of a man losing his umbrella you will ever see.

I haven't read all the Amphigorey books (not that the order of them matters), but this one happened to be sitting around in my grandma's house, so ...
I sat down and read the whole thing, which didn't take long.
Edward Gorey has always been one of my favorite illustrators, and I love his dark sense of humor.
There were a couple stories in this anthology that I found a little ...
over-the-top (particularly a really disturbing one about a couple who murder children––yikes) but for the most part I really enjoyed it, and I'll have to check out the other books in the series.
My partner thinks i'm an easy grader - yet ANOTHER 5 star book? Yup. Gorey is a genius. Not only is his art gripping, hilarious, inexplicable, and just a little creepy in a schadenfreude sort of way, but the terse, lean writing is perfect. What a pleasure. Why did it take me so long to read this?
If Gorey ever did something that WASN'T brilliant, I haven't seen it.
(I'm one of those people who always looks slightly crumpled or unkempt, no matter how hard they try - there's always a metaphorical hair out of place, although I have grown to like this, and I like it in others.)It is odd to think of Gorey's work as having existed before the 80s, when this combination of dark/cute/intellectual first had an obvious cultural place in Goth.
Edward Gorey.
**.This was another collection of previously printed works by Gorey that probably cannot be obtained anywhere else, unless reprint editions were done.
I guess Gorey had an agent, but you had to wonder what he did.
Apparently he didn’t have to do anything, based on Gorey’s fan base.
Whatever he published, his fans soaked up.
I’m like the lonely voice crying in the wilderness.
What was all this stuff about?
The only contribution that I could get out of all this stuff came from his various alphabets.
So…I think I’m done with my dip into Edward Gorey.
Primer contacto con Edward Gorey, Regera Dowdy, E. G. Deadworry... Y ya quiero más.«No todo en la vida puede ser interpretado metafóricamente.Eso es porque las cosas suelen quedarse a medias.»
I fell in love with Edward Gorey's artistry and macabre storytelling when I was a teenager. I own several Amphigorey compilations and have lost count of the number of times I've read them.
Edward Gorey's outstanding AMPHIOREY ALSO book cover illustrations, of what I consider a series of Dog Bugs, make up my favorite anthology covers thus far (the backs always being a mite better than the fronts). Love, love love love, love...CONTENTSThe Utter ZooThe Blue AspicThe Epiplectic BicycleThe Sopping ThursdayThe Grand PassionLes Passementeries HorriblesThe Eclectic AbecedariumL'Heure bleueThe Broken SpokeThe Awdrey-Gore LegacyThe Glorious NosebleedThe Loathsome CoupleThe Green BeadsLes Urnes UtilesThe Stupid JokeThe Prune PeopleThe Tuning Fork
Gobbled this up in a day! So bizarre and addicting and brilliant and just plain other. Also disturbing? But oh my gosh, I am LOVING Edward Gorey and can't wait to read and see more of his work. I especially liked the first half of this graphic novel -- The Utter Zoo and The Epiplectic Bicycle were particular favorites.
As much as I love Gorey's work, this book shows his tendency to return to the same wells one too many times. The dark whimsy, alphabetical games, and silly wordplay only go so far this time around, but there are still a few gems, esp. The Stupid Joke. Absolutely worth a look for fans, but there's a fair bit of dross here.
Volume three is just as twisted as volume two, but several of the vignettes matched my sense of humor more. There was the episode of various persons being menaced by giant drapery tassels, knotted “frogs” and other crocheted details. WTH!? Haha, Gorey is truly a weirdo, but an entertaining one at that.
I love this anthology. Gorey remains brilliant.
I think that Gorey must have had an influence on Lemony Snicket. Not sure that I would recommend for a young child, but it was an interesting read.
Well, that was one of the strangest things I've ever read.
Wonderful gift from @lori_matsumoto ‏
How wonderfully absurd!
Delightful nonsense also.
A collection of some of Gorey's lesser known works.
The tuning fork is seen briefly on the table and has no impact on the story; adore the last frame with the expired bathtub.Seeing so much of Gorey's work in one place let me pick out his habit of including a white parallelogram in every story.
If you're looking to get into Gorey, though, I'd recommend the first collection, Amphigorey, because those pieces have stronger narratives and will let you get accustomed to Gorey's style and sense of humor.
I must admit that I have a love of limericks, they are usually quite clever and funny. Edward Gorey was one of those very talented limerick writers. But, (imho) this collection of stories is rather haunting and ominous. Where is the amusing poetry? The sharp verse? Someone missed the boat. I think it was me.
While Mystery made me a lifelong fan of Price from youth, it would be sometime before I would "rediscover" Gorey and make the connection.
That being said, the joining of the the art and the words are almost symphonic and, if there is the rare missed note in this collection, it is not one I have found or at the least, the experience was so compelling it caused me to forgive it.Pick up Gorey's work - this one or any other - and read it, let it settle, then read the work again.
"Amphigorey Also" by Edward Gorey is an eccentric visual slice of fantasy created by a prolific illustrator and quixotic writer who definitely knows how to bring out one's inner child.
Rendered in black and white gothic glamour I particularly admired "The Letter Zoo Alphabet" and the way Gorey matched the rhyming nonsense text with the illustrations.
It would be a wonderful story to read to children who are learning the alphabet and their letters.
Two of the most gothic and elegant tales, "The Blue Aspic" and "The Loathsome Couple" touched on insanity, murder and obsession that I found dark and disturbing but still gripping enough to read twice in a row.
This was my first Edward Gorey book.
In high school when I was really into drawing, cross hatching was my favorite method of shading.
Especially with extremely fine point pens.
I loved the way the pen would leave ruts in the paper of my sketchbook.
The art in this book reminds me of high school.....
who couldn't love things like all the drawings of bats and bikes?Cool note, I found a letter on wide ruled spiral paper from Joey that says "Dylan and Ella, sorry this is a bit rushed.
Accompanying the letter was a comic book.Joey rules.
Overall, I enjoyed this book.
I grew up watching programs on Mystery!
so I was familiar with Gorey's work from a young age.
I just got this book a few days ago and have had time to go through it.
The drawings and alphabets are all pretty standard Gorey...meaning they're diverting and intriguing.
I did take issue with a story involving a couple who's "life's work" is to murder children and take pictures of the process.
Although it may come across as being overly sensitive, I have to say this story alone profoundly affected my ability to enjoy the book in its entirety.
Read about Embley and Yewbert’s adventure in the Epiplectic Bicycle. Brush up on the alphabet in The Utter Zoo, The Glorious Nosebleed and The Eclectic Abecedarium. Learn how the famous mystery writer, Miss D. Awdrey-Gore, of such great titles, The Pincushion Affair, The Toothpaste Murder, and The Dustwrapper Secret, pieced together the perfect tale of mystery. This Amphigorey book also highlights Gorey’s artistic and creative talent with his superbly macabre illustrations. I particularly enjoyed his cycling cards in The Broken Spoke and his urns in the Les Urnes Utiles.
I've always loved Edward Gorey's macabre Victorian style art. However, I was disappointed to discover, through reading this book, that his writing skills don't quite match his art skills. Most of the time, the captions were supposed to create a story, but they really didn't make any sense, so after I finished the book, I was...underwhelmed. I decided to 'read' through a second time, ignoring the words entirely, and just focusing on the art: much more enjoyable. As a book, this probably doesn't rate 4 stars, but for someone who enjoys his art, it's an enjoyable 'read'.
Edward Gorey may be most known to people who watch Mystery! on PBS, since he created the opening credits. I remember seeing his drawings at my grandmother's house, perhaps in Readers Digest Condensed books. Later, I tried (and failed) to find the book because Stephen King recommended it. It has been republished, a compilation of a dozen short graphic books, all peopled with the waif-ish hollow-eyed Victorian men, women, and creatures from his gothic imagination. This book is a wicked delight.
At times totally disturbing, and at other times perfectly charming. Two whole sections about bicycles! One story about a man so obsessed with opera that he starts killing people, finally stabbing his favorite soprano (she sings, amazingly, 'the A above high C') in the throat. There is also a plethora of cute, but sad, imaginary animals: 'The Posby goes into a trance, In which it does a little dance (illustration of a little sad Posby dancing in front of a grammaphone).
Ohhh. My. Word! If I had known you could write and actually get published a brilliant, nonsensical, whimsical, but altogether intelligent book . . . perhaps I would have done so myself!!! I Know. I Know. Quite egotistical of me. But, truly a parallel to some of the way I think. Which means, no body every "gets" me!! Oh well. Delightful book. Even if I am late to the party. Just like I was to Dorothy Parker. Would not they have made a pair??!!
