https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12787.Falling_Angel
Vooooodoooo...hard boiled detective mystery, and twisted loooooooove.Thanks Jeff- just what I was in the mood for.FALLING ANGEL...the 2nd novel I have read this month that Mickey Rourke stared in the movie...but this time, the book was sooooooooooooooo much better than the film...and it has nothing to do with the fact that Mickey is cuter in Nine and a Half Weeks- I swear.New York City 1959Private investigator- Harry Angel is hired by mysterious client- Louis Cyphre to find Johnny Favorite- a crooner injured during WWII and possibly living in an old folks home....or is he?Harry fails to abide by a number one rule...never trust a man with long finger nails.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο θεωρώ πως δεν είναι για έμπειρους αναγνώστες.
Αναγνωστικά και ηλικιακά.Η αλήθεια είναι πως ο συγγραφέας το προσπάθησε αρκετά απο την αρχή και πυροδοτώντας όλα τα λογοτεχνικά τεχνάσματα στο τέλοςπροσπάθησε να ρίξει θριαμβευτικά αυλαία, αφήνοντας άφωνους τους αναγνώστες.
Έφτιαξε μια καλοστημένη παγίδα και φρόντισε λίγο πριν πλησιάσει το θύμα του να γράψει μια ταμπέλα με την ένδειξη : «Προσοχή Κίνδυνος».
Για να αποσαφηνίσω καλύτερα τις σκέψεις μου θα αναφέρω απλώς πως μόνο με τις προφανείς συμβουλές και σκέψεις του ντετέκτιβ Έιντζελ...
The problem is the things Angel has seen on this case are casting the type of doubts that lead to belief.
”Sex is how we speak to the gods.”With bodies piling up like he has stumbled into the plot of Red Harvest, Angel knows the only thing he can do is keep investigating and see if he can find Favorite before someone catches up with him and cuts his heart out.
Pick your poison, movie or book, but if you like hardboiled noir, it will be impossible for you to ignore this important addition to the canon.
He was right, and I now wish I had read this book sooner.This is a crime-noir novel, written in the 70's but actually taking place in the early 50's.
As such, there are some racist comments and remarks, as well as some slang with which I was unfamiliar.
For instance, did you know that shamus was slang for private detective?
The story was also peppered with a bit of dry humor, which I always enjoy.
I've been told so much about this book, I guess I was feeling a bit let down.
Highly recommended for fans of crime-noir and dark fiction!
New York City P.I. Harry Angel is hired by a mysterious man named Louis Cyphre to track down a former popular singer named Johnny Favorite.
The movie moves the story from New York to New Orleans, though, and in that respect, the black magic and other supernatural elements may make more sense.
An easy four stars for the hard-boiled parts, for the great writing and for the New York setting; two stars for the supernatural parts that I couldn't buy into and for the gruesome scene that turned my stomach, averaging out to three stars.
An entertaining read, but very heavy on the foreshadowing. Everything that happened, I was able to predict from hints in the first couple chapters. I would not, therefore, recommend this as a mystery, but if you want a noir about doomed people in NY City you may enjoy it.The obviousness of the plot and the literary devices did make it extra-amusing that my copy was annotated by someone who pointed out all the most obvious things:
“The night was black, was no use holding back'Cause I just had to see, was someone watching me.In the mist dark figures move and twistWas all this for real, or just some kind of hell?666 the number of the beastHell and fire was spawned to be released.”(cue face-melting guitar solo)“The Number Of The Beast” - IronMaiden“I took a closer look at what protruded from his swollen lips and suddenly one drink wasn’t going to be enough.”That quote from the book made me chuckle, William Hjortsberg’s prose is full of snarky comments like that.
The occasional gruesome murder that seems to dog Angel keeps the story moving and produces an edginess/tension which made me wonder when something would jump out next.The first half of the book seemed to move slowly, but once the occult aspects of the case began to appear the mystery itself contributed to the tension plot.
I don't remember the details enough to determine how closely aligned the film and book are.Overall this was a nice mix of detective and voodoo/satanic murder genres.
Being a fan of the twisted supernatural story-line meets hard boiled detective, I instantly purchased it.
Did the book hold up to the movie?Detective Harry Angel is hired by an unusual, wealthy client to hunt down a long-missing man who was admitted to a treatment facility years ago for war injuries and complete memory loss.
I was starting to think there wasn't going to be any deviations at all, but they eventually came.The book wins with getting further into the story and the details, longer interviews and other stops that were omitted from the film, and a sense of urgency.
William Hjortsberg's Falling Angel was the basis for the movie Angel Heart, and, Mickey Rourke notwithstanding, it's a mighty fine adaptation.
Even if you've seen the movie, the book is well worth a read, but those of you who haven't seen the movie are in for a special treat.Falling Angel tells the story of Harry Angel: a P.I. hired by a mysterious stranger to find out the whereabouts of 1940's crooner Johnny Favorite.
Up until the final revelations, you're never quite sure just how it's all going to turn out.And now for the bad news: those of you who've seen Angel Heart know the surprise that Hjortsberg has in store for the reader.
on the one hand, i think it's a perfect book.
on the other hand, it was ruined a little bit by the fact that i'd already seen the movie angel heart, which was based on it, and so a lot of the power was lost.
on the third hand, since so much power was lost simply because i knew what was going to happen, it's probably not a 5-star book (The Maltese Falcon and The Chill, for instance, just get better with each reading/viewing).
but on the fourth hand, it's fucking genius, so fuck the third hand.
5 stars it is.
Who wouldn’t love a supernatural crime noir tale set in the 50’s with voodoo, satanic cults, brutal murders and a hard-boiled detective named Harry Angel. I can see why this one is considered a classic...because it is. Highly Recommended.
Mickey Rourke / ‘Angel Heart’ (1987) / Alan Parker & William Hjortsberg - http://ow.ly/u8hO2Por muy taimadamente que te acerques a un espejo, tu imagen siempre te mira directamente a los ojos.—Es un título de abogado —respondí—.
Es un auténtico caballero, ¿verdad, Deimos?Nos apretujamos todos en el minúsculo ascensor y bajamos sin pronunciar una palabra....Adaptada magníficamente al cine por Alan Parker y el propio William Hjortsberg en el año 1987 (‘Angel Heart’), ‘El ángel caído’ se desarrolla de forma engañosa, contada en su mayor parte con las maneras propias de la clásica novela negra de detectives, para convertirse paulatinamente en un híbrido pérfido y tortuoso, donde lo terrorífico y sobrenatural acaban adquiriendo un papel predominante.
4 Stars What a thoroughly enjoyable hard boiled detective thriller.
I picked this one up thanks to recommendations from Goodreads as I normally do not veer into the straight up mystery genre.
To my surprise I had a tough time putting down this noir thriller.Hjortsberg does a fabulous job of giving this story a 1950's feel.
He stays true to the noir genre.
The action though minimal is dispersed enough to keep you interested and excited.I had a blast reading this book and it leads me to wonder if I should venture into the classic hard boiled detective genre.
At one point in William Hjortsberg's masterful horror novel "Falling Angel," Epiphany Proudfoot, 17-year-old voodoo priestess, tells our detective hero Harry Angel "you sure know a lot about the city." The city in question is the New York of 1959, and if Angel knows a lot about this crazy burg, then Hjortsberg, in the course of this tale, demonstrates that he knows even more.
While much has been said of this book's scary elements--its voodoo ceremonies and Black Mass meeting and horrible murders--what impressed me most about this tale is the incredible attention to realistic detail that the author invests it with.
I was on the phone the other day with a musician friend.
I read it in two days.” When I got off the phone I checked Kindle and there it was.
I downloaded it and began reading.
I read it in two days also.Noir, Jazz, Mystery, Voodoo, The Occult, familiar locale and even a real life character I remember.
Hjortsburg works the hard boiled genre well.
The real life character is a guy that used to stand in front of 1619 Broadway in NYC and swear at people walking by.
Hjortsburg puts him in for verisimilitude and atmosphere.
For my review of this book, please click  here  (still on Goodreads but different edition of the book!)Thank you!
The exception was Falling Angel, which I took home and read over a matter of days.In preparation for this review, I read the book again.
Cyphre has discovered Fortune is missing from the place and wants him located.In true hardboiled PI fiction, Harry Angel strolls down the mean streets of Manhattan looking for the missing Fortune.
Angel is forced to visit reporters, libraries and consult things known as phone books.
Soon, Angel begins seeing Mr. Cyphre in his dreams.The book is full of bizarre occult references to New York City.
His investigations soon point to a man who was heavily involved in black magic, finding him will be difficult enough without all of Harry's leads turning up dead as one by one they are taken out.I've seen the movie of this book and although there are some similarities they are vastly different.
The final 6-8 chapters soon picked it up again and whilst the ending was no surprise to me, having seen the movie, it was still a great twist.
I wish I had read this book before seeing the movie "Angel Heart". But, as it has been over 20 years since I have seen the movie, I had forgotten most of the details (except a pretty steamy sex scene with Lisa Bonet (We're not in "Cosby" anymore, Theo! WOW!)). And of course, I remembered the ending. That being said, it did not much detract from how damn good this book is!5 STARS, favorited
I thought one of the fundamental aspects of storytelling involved the inclusion of at least a few boring parts. This didn't seem to have any so I'm guessing it wasn't written correctly.Constant pacing and a more than satisfying ending. Highly recommended.4.5
I was completely engrossed with this story, read it in two days, and could not put it down.
I'm a huge fan of noir crime fiction, and someone recommended this book as one I'd like in that genre.
There's the private detective, Harold Angel, working out of a crappy little office, dressed sloppily, with stains on his tie; places that people wouldn't go to after dark; a private hospital in the country, characters involved in the dark world of voodoo and black magic etc.
So I won't spoil the book for others by going into any further detail here, but I will say that if you like a touch of the supernatural in your fiction, then you've got to add this to your reading stack.
Twenty-five years ago I saw the movie "Angel Heart".
I remember it being a very atmospheric film.
Twenty-five years later, I read the novel that would become that movie.
This is one of the best, noir, hard-boiled gumshoe novel's I've read.
Hjortsberg also does a wonderful job on the atmosphere of New York City in the '50's.
Throw in the case Harry Angel is working that involves, black magic, voodoo, and some gruesome murders, you have a very different hard-boiled novel.
Getting in to this story, was like watching an 'ol B&W mystery on the TCM channel.Might have to check out the movie again....
4.5 stars. Review to come!
It stood the test of time quite well-- possibly since I have in the interim read a lot of other authors, his literary allusions might stand out better to my mind now.
Hjortsberg describes the city of Manhattan circa 1959 in great detail-- as he reveals in his own afterword, based entirely on his own youthful memories, and even going to great pains to research exactly what the weather was like in that period of time.
Unfortunately this book's fame has rested largely on the 1987 film that was based upon it, "Angel Heart." Do NOT let your memories of that dreadful piece of nonsense influence your decision whether to read the original material.
I tried to get hold of this book when I first saw ‘Angel Heart’, still the best film I have ever seen, but failed to find it.
What a joy to discover it is now available for Kindle.Like many of the previous reviewers I thought it might be spoilt for me because I already knew what happened at the end.
‘It was easy to imagine those pampered hands gripping a whip.
And I actually found myself unable to put the book down as I approached the end.
I believe this book to be a classic, one of the very best I have ever read.
If you like your horror laced with more than a little private dick noir then Falling Angel is the novel for you.
See Johnny "owes" something to the not so enigmatic Mr. Cypher.The symbolism was a little heavy handed in this one and the fact that Angel doesn't know what the Hell he's looking at when the reader does stretches the imagination a bit.
Unless he's not who he says he is (unlikely), in which case the prime motive for the entire novel is shot to hell.Anyway the noir angle is pretty nicely done.
Until the last 30 pages, there was nothing in this that made me want to keep reading.
If you've read any pulp horror mags or reprints from the 1930s, you could take those and combine them w/ Rosemary's Baby, and you'd have this book.
The author went overboard in his attempts to remind you that the story is set in the 1950s.
If he had chosen his plot direction as carefully as these reminders of when the story was set, he might've had at least a 3-star book.
I give it an extra star for the slightly-more-detailed-than-usual use of voodoo as a plot point.
I'm not going to claim this is a great book, but damn I loved it. Noir detective fiction mixed with satanism and a mashup of other supernatural elements, written with economy of purpose, and no happy ending to ruin the bite. Sure, it telegraphs the destination, but the ride is so much fun. There was plenty of gruesome horror, and a nice dose of hard-boiled violence, and the story kept me wanting to read much later than I should have been.
