https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3234084-the-autobiography-of-a-sexually-emancipated-communist-woman
Alexandra Kollontai (AK47 for brevity) was a member of the Communist Party and a friend of Lenin.
Rather, these are portions of the original written version which AK47 herself had crossed out in the galley-proof, or had in effect taken back by somehow explaining them away, and all left out when this was published in her time.
Madmen rule over Russia and if one writes something which they don't like he could lose his head.
Despite this stifling atmosphere and her losing lovers to purges AK47 remained a devoted communist.
Alexandra Kollontai had the misfortune of fighting the good fight in the wrong country.
This short volume, which includes her autobiography, her essay “New Woman”, and an informative afterword, leaves one not terribly impressed about her literary merits and much more eager to read a proper biography.
And as luck would have it, Haymarket Books will be publishing in 2014 a revised edition of Cathy Porter’s biography, Alexandra Kollontai: A Biography, which will be the volume I am recommending today.
The essay “New Woman” may be of interest to those interested it in the ‘strong female character’ question and to those interested in unEARTH’ing early 20th century literature.
sovyet donemi kitaplarinin genel olarak cevirilerinde aman da stalin soyle kotuydu boyle kotuydu notunu yayimci ve/veya cevirmen dusmese olmuyor sanirim.kollontayin kendi yasamini ve dusuncelerini daha ayrintili gecmesi biraz daha sevindirirdi sanki. bununla birlikte bu ceviride dipnotlari atlayarak okudum, zira butun degisikleri dipnot olarak gecmisler dipnot takip etmekten kitabin kendisi okunamiyor. bu kismi bir tercih meselesi olsa da, onsozde Stalin sansurculugunu boyle takip edebilirsiniz notuna karsin da dipnotlari atladim.mart ayina kollontayla girmek de ayri bir keyif tabii.
She was a very active Bolshevik in the period leading up to the Russian Revolution, and she appears to have lived her Marxism in remarkable ways - like pointing out that the domestic servitude of women in marriage can be seen as akin to the oppression of the proletariat and that the place of women ought to be as much a concern as the conditions of factory workers.
Not a bad way to get rid of a political opponent.
Again, briefly--the best thing about this book is the title.
Kollontai was an orthadox communist that participated in the Russian revolution and was a diplomat for the Soviet state.
This book recounts her activities though it is told in a way that lacks excitment.
The one thing I did like was seeing the revisions to the text after the Soviet censors had read the manuscript.
This gives some idea about what it might have been like to publish a book in the Soviet society.
Though this was intersting, it's not really enough to justify picking this book up
The autobiography is super interesting and gives a window into life during the Russian Revolution. But it's a short read, and I would have liked there to be more. Then, there's the essay on the New Woman about all these newly empowered women in literature-- this part makes you say "awww, that's what I want out of life too!!" and then you feel all warm and fuzzy and connected to the strong women throughout history.
A great read, particularly because of the edition. The scope of revisions present a highly critical and nuanced thinker, choosing words carefully and deliberately. A wonderful glimpse into a thinker who laid the ground for Marxist Feminism.
Brave & sad.
