https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/457264.The_Second_Sex
The fact that we are human beings is infinitely more important than all the peculiarities that distinguish human beings from one another; it is never the given that confers superiorities: ‘virtue’, as the ancients called it, is defined on the level of ‘that which depends on us’. My life has led me to develop a love for thought, a love heavily dependent on the context of reality and my personal view of such, a love that has been, is, and will continue to grow through heavy doses of words both sp
Thus, while it is true that in the higher animals the individual existence is asserted more imperiously by the male than by the female, in the human species individual 'possibilities' depend upon the economic and social situation.We are now acquainted with the dramatic conflict that harrows the adolescent girl at puberty: she cannot become 'grown-up' without accepting her femininity; and she knows already that her sex condemns her to a mutilated and fixed existence, which she faces at this time under the form of an impure sickness and a vague sense of guilt.
My inner cracks have been filled with irrefutable evidence amalgamated from diverging fields of study infused with patriarchal metanarration such as the scientific, in its medical, biological and psychoanalytical aspects; and the humanistic, taking philosophy, mythology, literature and historical materialism as pinpointing references.“One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.”  (295)What I inferred to be particular quirks and shortcomings of my own character like the incessant urge to please, the lack of firmness when I voice out my opinions, the sense of displacement in my professional life, the unavowed guilt of my indecision on motherhood and many other details turn out to be the partial result of centuries of alienation from a position of imbued dependence and subservient otherness in relation to man, whose gender inherently assigns the role of “the essential” and “the independent” to him.The female, on the other hand, achieves fulfilment finding her reason to be in the free conscience of the masculine figure.
So, to understand the female self as it has been historically constrained to develop, she targets her philosophical analysis to the representational tools - and their limits - that she has had available for her self-construction.The problem of incompletely formulated selfhood that she starts from, de Beauvoir takes great pains to suggest, is not merely a piece of her idiosyncratic subjective biographical trajectory, but is, in a sense, our problem as well, to the extent that we are inheritors of a cultural heritage that does not afford us with the semantic tools that we need in order to lay claim to our experience through its shaping.
من به عنوان یک خواننده زن و با نگاهی به شدت غیر فمنیست و با باور به تمام تفاوت های میان زن و مرد و قبول دشواریهای زنانه در حیرت دشواری زندگی زن گونه خود به قلم مادام دوبووار بر خود و بختم گریستم.زن, موجودی که حتی احساساتش در بیشتر مواقع در کنترل خودش نمی باشد و بدتر از آن تربیتش او را به موجودی حساس و ضربه پذیر تبدیل کرده در دنیایی با قدرت مردانه و اوامر مردگونه با قوانینی که مرد ساخته باید سر به اطاعت سپرده و به آزادی که دیگری تعریف کرده قناعت ورزد.
The part of this book that has affected me the most in the ten years since I've read it is most certainly the introduction, where de Beauvoir says that in order to define herself to herself she must start with, "I am a woman".
Similarly, although I hadn't read- nor have I bothered to read since- many of the authors that she delves into in the literary section, the book has had the effect of making a sort of gender studies media critic out of me, always asking how and why women are represented in the larger culture.
For me, the most solid part of the book was the philosophy section (which one might expect from a philosopher).
والطبيعة المجتمعيّة التي تُفرض على المرأة واحِدة رغم تدرج الحقوق بين الأزمنة .كان المضمون واحدًا "المنزل الأمومة الإندماجيّة رفض الإستقلال" والنتيجة وصفت كجنس آخر ليست ذاتًا مستقلّة .سيمون كطبيعتها تنطلق من فلسفة وجودية ؛ فهي تتوغل في الذات الأنثوية منذ طفولتها وصِباها حيث تُترك منذ حداثتها لتعيش في جوّ يحفل بالنساء إنتهاء بشيخوختها ..
بدأت تحليلها من وجهة نظر نفسيّة حيث الصراع مابين "آدلر" الذي يرى بأن المرأة محمّلة بمركب نقص مهما كانت مستقلّة ..
As a feminist, it's been recommended to me for years that I read Simone de Beauvoir's 1949 book, The Second Sex. As a regular person, though, I have always felt like it "wasn't the right time" to read it.What does that even mean?As someone living as "the second sex" myself, there is no excuse for this.
She covers a lot of ground in this book, more than Friedan, though the comparison is unfair since they achieved different things with their writing and came at it from slightly different angles.Beauvoir's approach covers biology, philosophy, religion, history, you name it.
In The Women’s Room, one of Marilyn French’s characters sums up pregnancy as a time when a woman loses control of her body (and, by extension, her mind) as well as her identity: Pregnancy is a long waiting in which you learn what it means completely to lose control over your life.
Whatever groundbreaking work Beauvoir accomplishes in The Second Sex needs to be balanced against Beauvoir’s privileging of the mind over the body as well as her evident distaste for women’s bodily processes and pregnancy in particular.
Thought, Lyotard posits, attempts to create endings, to once and for all silence the discomfort of the unthought: The unthought hurts.
No Wonder Intrigue and Strife Abound"A Man never begins by representing himself as an individual of a certain sex; it goes without saying that he is a Man." Man represents himself as both the positive and the neutral. He represents Woman as the negative. Man represents himself as objective. He represents Woman as subjective. Ironically,  Man is the Subject, but objective; Woman is the Object, but subjective.  Aristotle defines a Woman in terms of a certain lack of qualities and therefore as defe
In its (the second consciousness’) perception, it is the Subject and the first consciousness is the Object.
No Subject will readily volunteer to become the Object, the inessential; it is not the Other who, in defining [itself] as the Other, establishes the One. The Other is posed as such by the One in defining [itself] as the One. But 
The drama of Woman lies in this conflict between the fundamental aspirations of every Subject (ego) – who always regards the Self as the essential – and the compulsions of a situation in which she is the inessential?
ففي هذه المرحلة من العمر تتعلم أن النصر محرم عليها وأنّه يجب عليها أن تتخلى عن شخصيتها المستقلة "التي عاشتها أثناء الطفولة" وأن مستقبلها يتوقف على إرادة ومشيئة الرجال.كثيرًا ماتعتري الناس الدهشة أمام السهولة التي تتخلى فيها الفتاة عن الموسيقى والدراسة والمهنة إذا وجدت زوجا مناسبا لها، الأمر الذي يدل على أنها لاتعلق أيّة أهمية على هذه المجالات الفكريّة فلاتشعر بأية خسارة في حالة تخليها عنها.ثمّ تتحدث عن مرحلة الزواج "المرأة المتزوجة" وهي المرحلة التي أختلف فيها معها كثيرا..سيمون تنظر للزواج كمؤسسة إستعبادية مالم يتحقق من المساواة شيء طوال الفترة التي يمضيانها مع بعض، وتنظر للرجل كأنه حيوان لاينظر للمرأة إلا كمتاع جنسي فقط.الزواج هو المصير التقليدي الذي يخصصه المجتمع للمرأة، وأغلب النساء حتى يومنا هذا إما متزوجات أو يعددن أنفسهن للزواج أو يتألمن لعدم تزوجهن .
in the next chapters she looks at women from every single possible view, within, without, social, biological, philosophical, historical, cultural, she probes everywhere, the conscious and the unconscious, she goes deep and then deeper than you knew existed, to explain the why and the how and the when of why women are the way they are, who is doing this to us, why hasn't it changed through the years, who benefits from all this and then after 600 pages of fabulous reading, comes the sweet conclusion of how to fix it, how to change it, how to overcome.

This unfortunately was the short version of Simone de Beauvoir's 'The Second Sex' as I made a mistake when ordering (because of the price), so this is only extracts from the full version which hopefully will read at another time.
As a passionate supporter of feminism, equality and sexual liberation for women this was an interesting and for it's time controversial take on feminist philosophy and would suit anyone who doesn't have the time on their hands to read the longer edition, but I am a little frustrated as it clearly has nowhere near the depth that obviously the full version would have.
Well done Simone.
كتاب ثمين جداً من الكتب التي لا تندم على قرائتها، كتابٌ من الكتب المعدودة التي لم تشعرني بأنها تحكمت بي بل شعرت بالانتعاش فكرياً و شعرت بأن افكاراً في رأسي اتخذت لغة سيمون ديبوفوار الصادقة و الموفقة. تذكرت حواري مع قريبتي حينما كتبت لها بعض المقاطع من الكتاب فتستشعر ضاحكة إن كانت سيمون فرنسية أم سعودية؟؟؟
This extensive, scholarly study, written in 1946 by French existentialist novelist and feminist Simone de Beauvoir is a seminal text for 20th-century feminism. The lengthy study contains numerous chapters, beginning with the history of women in societies throughout the world. Beauvoir's first basic observation is that the world has always been dominated by men--hence, her title that names women as "the second sex" or le deuxième sexe." Her premise that runs through the book is that there is no
And here is a fact that I complain about to my French students all the time: American women did not receive the right to vote until 1920, which is bad enough, but French women did not get to vote until 1946 (coincidentally, the same year The Second Sex was published)!
There are many, many more interesting points Beauvoir makes about feminism as she urges women of her time and in the future to rise to their full intellectual and creative potential.
When I finally started it last month, it was almost impossible to put it down (though I did take a break in order to read William Vollmann's new magnum opus.) Simone de Beauvoir theorizes, hypothesizes, and generalizes about every phase of a woman's life, from infancy to old age, and the events marking each phase, such as menarche, sexual initiation, childbirth, and menopause.
While Nick's review makes some very inarguable points about the over-generalizations and untestable hypotheses that are offered throughout the text, most of the ideas proffered are fascinating and recognizable to probably any woman who reads it.
Fantastic! Should be distributed in 7th grade to all females. It is the handbook we were looking for.
700 pages of magical reality. Beauvoir is one of those handful writers, worth a name. Simone's narrative quality is so much powerful, I've never experienced before. A must read for third world. I will be revisiting this book very soon.
إحداها نفيها أن تكون المرأة قد جلست يوماً على عرش السلطة البشرية رغم ما تؤكده الأبحاث التاريخية عن الزمن الذي كانت فيه الآلهة "امرأة"وفي هذا الخصوص تقول دي بوفوار أنه صحيح أنها كانت آلهة لكن السلطة السياسية كانت دائماً بيد الرجل.
لا بد للمرء القاريء لهذا الكتاب أن يتفهم سبب نفور دي بوفوار من مؤسسسة الزواج باعتبارها لا تشكل سوى وجهاً آخر للدعارة الشرعية إن أمكن لها قول ذلك وتستشهد في هذا الخصوص بقول مارو: إن الفرق بين النساء اللواتي يبعن أنفسهن عن طريق الدعارة والبغاء، وبين اللواتي يبعن أنفسهن بواسطة الزواج، ينحصر في ثمن ومدة عقد البيع.بل إن الزواج في أفضل الحالات لا يتعدى كونه إتحاد إقتصادي وجنساني يقنن علاقة المرأة بالرجل ضمن حقوق وواجبات ليس إلا.
“One is not born, but rather becomes, a woman.” Incredibly interesting and eye-opening essay that describes the oppression of women throughout the years.
One of the best passages was the chapter where Beauvoir depicted the circumstances that led woman to be left behind in art:Men we call great are those who—in one way or another—take the weight of the world on their shoulders; they have done more or less well, they have succeeded in re-creating it or they have failed; but they took on this enormous burden in the first place.
How could van Gogh have been born woman?
هذه النجوم الخمسة للكاتبة وليست للكتاب -من سطور هذا الكتاب " يظهر لنا خطأ اعتقادين شائعين :الأول أن الأمومة تكفي لإرضاء المرأة والثاني أن الطفل يجد سعادة أكيدة بين ذراعي أمه -إن سلوك المرأة لا تفرضه عليها هرموناتها ولا تكوين دماغها بل هو نتيجة لوضعها  "يبدو أن طريق الحرية سيكون مؤلماً وباهظ التكاليف سنتوه كثيراً , ونحزنُ كثيراً
Why I never manage to find the right edition of the book I'm reading on Goodreads baffles me. Twice I've read Beauvoir in French. Mine is an old treasured edition, which I didn't find listed here. So, I set to read it again in English. It would be quite weird to write the review in English and quote Beauvoir in French...Alors, on y va! Humanity is not an animal species, it is a historical reality. Human society is an antiphysis – in a sense it is against nature; it does not passively submit to t
Being young then, I just shrugged inward and as a good girl let the oldest and wisest lecture me, but with a strike of defiance already blazing in my veins, I hummed a litany in my mind: Your words are not compatible with your behaviours and for sure I'll not be submissive to anyone.What I didn't perceive then, and I can see clearer now is that at the time Le Deusième Sexe was written, women, specially those raised in Christianity, were still regarded as appendices of men - And the rib that the LORD God had taken from the man he made into a woman and brought her to the man.in the BibleAnd in the middle the authoritarian Brazilian regimen of the 80's, independent women yet saw themselves as utterly dependable and submissive to their strong, rich (or not), all-so-powerful-male husbands.
How could the Cinderella myth not retain its validity? Everything still encourages the girl to expect fortune and happiness from a “Prince Charming” instead of attempting the difficult and uncertain conquest alone. I am not a true woman.Because the majority of man that are featured in this book (and the majority of man in history) describe a true woman as “…frivolous, infantile, irresponsible, the woman subjugated to man.”Yeah, no.The book is not only about feminism, is a long essay about woman
My history, my mother’s, my grandmother’s, every woman’s on earth.In its 800 pages Beauvoir tries to answer the question of how women became subjugated to man, how she is not considered an autonomous being, how women are not equals to man and exactly where the difference between them lay.She tackles these questions from a biological, mythological and social point of view, amongst others.
It’s one of my greatest wishes –and after eight hundred pages I believe Beauvoir would agree- that one day the meaning of the word woman will sound less like slave, and more like equal.
Siento que llevo leyendo este libro toda una vida.
Lo que sí es seguro es que me siento reivindicada como mujer y como ser humano.
Evidentemente, el paradigma está cambiando, pero no por eso es menos doloroso ver reflejadas algunas de nuestras conductas o las de las mujeres de nuestro entorno.
La sociedad que nos es descrita resuena lejana y familiar al mismo tiempo.Simone no juzga, expone.
Puedes estar o no de acuerdo, pero no puedes escapar de ella: sus reflexiones penetran dentro de ti y sacuden los cimientos de murallas que ni sabías que existían.El mundo no volverá a ser el mismo tras haberla leído.
في هذا الكتاب تحاول سيمون الاجابة على سؤال واحد متى بدأ هذا التمييز بين الرجل و المرأة لحساب الرجل وضعت عدة فرضيات و انتهت أنها جميعا لا تبرر هذا التفضيل غير المستحق للرجل.
Así que a aquellos hombres que se creen superiores, no, los hombres no son superiores a las mujeres y aquellas personas que creen que el feminismo busca la superioridad de la mujer, el feminismo lo que busca, como muy bien expone Simone es la fraternidad entre ambos sexos:“En ambos sexos se vive el mismo drama de la carne y el espíritu, de la finitud y la trascendencia; los dos están devorados por el tiempo, los acecha la muerte, tienen una misma necesidad esencial del otro; y pueden encontrar la misma gloria en su libertad; si supieran apreciarla, no tratarían de disputarse falsos privilegios; y entonces podría nacer la fraternidad entre ellos.”Por otra parte, respecto a la segunda de mis razones, podemos lanzar la mirada a África, a China, a Arabia Saudí… y a un centenar más de lugares donde la igualdad entre hombres y mujeres está lejos de alcanzarse.Aunque sea solo por esta razón el feminismo sigue representado una NECESIDAD.
I didn't read this book from cover to cover.
See, I had to read this book because I was using feminism theory on my final thesis.
But I do agree with Simone de Beauvoir's opinions that in many countries including Indonesia, women are positioned mostly as citizen number two who have less privileges than men do in so many aspects of life.
It doesn't work that way for men.
They are either good at work or good at home and that's OK.
And what makes it worst is, many women agree with this way of thinking.
Depois de  várias  semanas a ler este grandioso livro, posso finalmente escrever uma avaliação.Por onde começar?Esta obra fantástica, intransponível e inegável da condição feminina ao longo dos tempos, é um raio-x dos constrangimentos, limitações, imposições e sofrimentos que todas as mulheres experimentam pelo menos uma vez na vida.Ao abrirmos o livro, lemos uma bela introdução das tradutoras à obra de Simone de Beauvoir, dando-nos a entender o que podemos esperar dela e como interpretá-la medi
semanas a ler este grandioso livro, posso finalmente escrever uma avaliação.Por onde começar?Esta obra fantástica, intransponível e inegável da condição feminina ao longo dos tempos, é um raio-x dos constrangimentos, limitações, imposições e sofrimentos que todas as mulheres experimentam pelo menos uma vez na vida.Ao abrirmos o livro, lemos uma bela introdução das tradutoras à obra de Simone de Beauvoir, dando-nos a entender o que podemos esperar dela e como interpretá-la mediante as condições em que foi escrita.O livro está dividido em dois volumes, podendo ser vendido em livros separados ou em um todo.
متن سنگین، سرعت پیشرفت کتاب در حد لاک پشت ولی آدم چکار مهمتری غیر از خوندن و فهمیدن این نویسنده میتونه داشته باشه. این کتاب را سخت میشه یکبار خوند و فهمید.
(Esto pudo haber sido una bendición, porque hay feministas extremistas y muy vocales que no le hacen justicia al movimiento en general, y encontrarme con alguien así podría haberme predispuesto desde un principio contra el feminismo y tal vez nunca hubiera leído este libro para empezar)En definitiva, mi actitud hacia el feminismo era bastante neutral, básicamente quería saber más del mismo, así que cuando vi El segundo sexo en una librería, lo compré.
