https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/571508.Rumors_of_War
Let me start by saying that I HATE LDS fiction because it follows the formula of member meets non-member,they fall in love, non- member joins the church.
The story takes place during WWII and starts out in Sugarhouse area of Salt Lake (where I grew up) with a typical LDS family whose dad is the Bishop.
These are very real characters that I grew to love.
Although I read them when they were first published, 10 years ago, I still think about these characters and have to remind myself that although they are my "friends" they are FICTIONAL!
As a person who is usally skeptical about any fiction published by LDS publishers, I expected to think it was dumb.
When I was at BYU I signed up for an LDS Literature class.
And we didn't even read 'Charly'.The name 'LDS Lit' wasn't exactly what you'd think.
This website would have been nice to have back then.I read 'Recapitulation' by Wallace Stegner, a non-Mormon guy and a non-Mormon book.
But a few of the people in the book were Mormon, I think.
He was a nice guy, not even arrogant like he had the right to be (cuz he'd just written a great book!)
I am going to do a general review of all 5 books in this series. I loved them and really enjoy historical fiction. I loved how each character was developed and integrated into the story perfectly so as to include many of the different aspects and perspectives of a life-changing time in history. Two thumbs up to be sure.
I like the overlying message of standing up for good in the battle against evil in an uncertain time, and I think that message is just as applicable in our lives today.Here are a few quotes that I liked:"Satan is unleashing his forces against the Lord's people.
Bad times come, and good people humble themselves, and then blessings flow (p.
I hope that war won't come, but if it does, trust that members of the Church all over the world will pray for you, will love you, will be waiting for the day when this darkness clears (p.
When I was in 8th grade, for a school project I had the chance to interview Dean Hughes about his research on World War II, and talk to him about his "Children of the Promise" series - which follows a Salt Lake family throughout the war, on the homefront and the battlefield - and his novel "Soldier Boys" about a Mormon kid's experience on Omaha Beach on D-Day.
There are struggles as the family has children leaving to the war, children struggling at home, and many hard decisions are made.
Some sons are feeling like they need to serve in the war.
It would flash from place to place as the family was moved around, and I liked that.
This book was cool because it showed the struggles that came from a time not that long ago.
World War II is one of the few historical subjects that interests me, so I liked that.
I liked that this book was relatable.
This is a review of the entire "Children of the Promise" series by Dean Hughes, including Rumors of War, Since You Went Away, Far From Home, When We Meet Again, and As Long As I Have You. I loved these books--the first (Rumors of War) took a few chapters to get me hooked and then I finished that one and read the rest eagerly--until I got to the last one (As Long As I Have You)--more about that later.
Back at Germany, the Stoltz knew that they were not safe, so they decided to run away from home and left with none of their belongings.
Alex also decides that he will go and be apart of the army, also.
The one character that I picked to do a report about was Wally because at the beginning of the book, he is very ignorant and not a very good person, but the experiences that he has while he is in war is incredible and he is able to live through it all with the strength of the lord.
Let me start by saying two things:1) I'm usually not a big fan of LDS fiction.
I think he did a great job of portraying real people instead of stereotypes, which goes a long way in my book.
I love how the book does make you feel spiritually enlightened and does have some spiritual scenes, but you never get the feeling that if it were a movie there'd be really touching, cheesy music accompanying them.
Instead it feels like how things could really happen.
It makes you feel like you could honestly feel the same way.
Maybe even four and a half.
I'm not a super fan of the LDS fiction genre.
But I love historical fiction, and Rumors of War delivered a great story.
Set in the years leading up to World War II, the story details the lives of members of the fictional Thomas family.
The tale switches from Alex, serving a mission in Germany, to Bobbi, engaged to the perfect man (according to her family, at least), to Wally, mixed up and angry teen and back again, and it was easy to read and get involved with the characters.
The theme of the Church was tied into the lives of the characters in a realistic way- it is the undercurrent of everything they do, intrisically woven into each thought and decision.

The Thomas family is about to face WW2. Alex, a missionary in Germany, loves the German people. Bobbie breaks off her engagement and joins the military as a nurse. Wally chooses to join the Air Corps as an escape from responsibilities of life, and is captured as a POW.The entire series is well researched and in depth. He does a good job of placing characters in many of the important events of the war (sometimes he's even a little too obvious about it). The characters are multi-faceted and develop well as the series goes on.
This is by far the best book of the series, book 1. The whole series is Historical Fiction about an LDS (Mormon) Family. Vol 1 and 2 tell a story about this family during WWII, and tie it into the histroy of the LDS chuch. By book 3 the story has taken on its own life about seperation and love and longing and droped much of the historical fiction part. So if your reading to get LDS history that part kind of dies out but the story is still compelling and wonderful.
I don't know why I waited so long to read this series. It's a great story that brings the events of WW2 to life. Books don't make me cry often but this one did. It's beautifully written and I look forward to reading the rest of the series.
I can't even count how many times I've read this series and I still love it every time. This time I listened to the audiobook and thought it was well done.Sad to discover that my other very favorite WWII historical fiction series isn't available on audiobook from the library anymore. :(
This entire series (Children of the Promise) is about an LDS family alive during WWII. It was very captivating and I felt I was able to make a real connection with the characters in the story. Definitely a series I would recommend.
I place Dean Hughes at the top of authors within the Latter-Day Saint community. His characters are believable and leave the reader craving to read more. Children of the Promise is his best work. I wasn't as thrilled by it's sequel series, Hearts of the Children.
This series is great! I love hearing WWII from a mormon perspective. Not all Nazi's are evil, and not all Americans are good. This was a fun, compelling book. I looked forward to cleaning the house because I could listen to it as I cleaned.
I loved how much this series teaches about the history of World War II
Heart warming! You will fall in love with the characters, and won't be able to put this series down!
such an interesting perspective of WWII. i loved the intricacies from germany, the US, and the philipines all threaded together.
This was a very good book. I loved The Work and the Glory adn this is the modern day version. I seriosuly have a new respect for the generation that lived through WW2. Very inspirational!
November 2014- I had forgotten how much I like this series.
LOVE the whole series!
I have never been as interested in World War II history, until now.
The characters are fleshed out and I cared deeply about what happened to them from the very beginning.
The book is never intense though, and very interesting.
The only parts that weren't as brilliant for me was the beginning of some chapters.
Hughes wraps up what happened in the war at that time at the beginning of some of the chapters, rather than putting it into the story somehow.
The book was so wonderful and I loved the themes of God watching out for us and having faith through hard times.
I have always had a question about how the citizens of Germany could have ever allowed the atrocities to take place the way I assumed they did.
I have learned a lot and have matured a bit in my thinking & even questions.
I believe that we would all do well to learn from some of the lessons from those who have gone before us.
One of the lessons I have learned is that just because you know something or even believe that you know something that doesn't mean you have power, authority, or resource to do anything about it.
This story is placed around World War 2.
The Nazis were raiding and burning jews shops and their homes.
D-day was during world war 2.
The Nazis had a hatred for Jews.
Over 6 million Jews died during World War 2.
World War 2 was a crazy time.Imagine waking up every morning fearing for your life.
This is the life of the Thomas Family.
Elder Thomas is serving a mission in Germany.
He wakes up every morning fearing that some day the secret police will take him away.
He has to serve his mission in the beginning of a war!
I do not read a lot of LDS fiction, because it usually follows a typical storyline and can be so...boring. But this book surprised me. A story of one LDS family during the beginning of WWII, how their family dealt with the responsibility of the US during that time and how they could contribute. It also shed light on how some families in the church thought about the world and the mission of the church, which was interesting.
3.5
Loved this book! A wonderful look at the impact of religion on a family caught in World War II.
