https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/296570.Child_of_the_Morning
both dangerous but in different ways.Thothmes III is the antagonist to Hatshepsut's protagonist at the end of the book, but in many ways he is a lot like her.
At the time Gedge wrote the book the idea of Hatshepsut as a female ruler avoiding war and promoting peace, and Thothmes III as a red-blooded male war-monger, was a very popular perspective, but the truth was quite different.
It's obvious that Gedge spends a lot of time and care in creating her characters, and by the time the book is published knows them like the back of her hand.

Gedge also tells us the story of Senmut, the young peasant we'eb priest who dreams of building temples and monuments, and how he comes to cross Hatshepsut's path, and one day becomes her stewart.We now know Pauline Gedge's book is not very historically accurate, but she was working from data available in the 70's: a lot of new discoveries have changes some of the things we thought we knew about Hatshepsut since (especially her relations with nephew Thothmese III), but she was doing the best she could with the information she had and I can't hold new science against her.
Me sorprende que este personaje histórico no sea mas conocido pero me imagino que al vivir 15 siglos antes que Cleopatra y haber llegado menos información de su vida hasta nuestros días provoca esta situación aunque yo por ejemplo conocía algunos de los edificios emblematicos que se construyeron en su reinado sin saber que eran obra de la primera mujer que gobernó en egipto.
Lo peor que en la construcción de personajes para mi la novela flojea, por ejemplo encuentro este defecto en el arquitecto Senmut donde su paso de humilde hijo de un labrador a ser el hombre mas importante de Egipto y mano derecha del faraón para mi no está bien desarrollado.
To qoute Penguin Canada's website: A chronicle of passionate intrigue and sensuous exoticism, Child of the Morning resurrects the life of the awesome Hatshepsut, the only woman pharaoh of ancient Egypt, whose name was erased from history by her enemies, outraged at having to bow to a woman's command.
However unlike other women in ancient Egypt's past she is the only female Pharaoh who had such a lengthy rule (she has been assigned a reign of twenty-one years and nine months.)The novel itself weaves fact and fiction to create a powerful tale about Hatshepsut and her reign.
Needless to say, Gedge hit all my happy buttons big time!Since this book was first published, Egyptology has learned a little more about Hatshepset, but it was interesting when re-reading this at how much of the story Ms. Gedge actually managed to deduce (and get right).
There are several other retellings of her story, but most tend to characterize Hatshepset as some power-hungry aunt who "stole" the crown.
Child of the Morning depicts Hatshepset who was groomed from birth by her father to not just be a pretty figurehead, but to assert queenship in her own right.
Me gustó mucho como empezó, pero a partir de la mitad del libro comenzó a ser aburrido. De todas formas, la historia es bastante interesante, no la conocía y me sorprendió en varias ocasiones.
An interesting look at the culture and politics of ancient Egypt, a setting I'm none too familiar with.
This is historical fiction, an imgagining of how the only female Pharaoh in history might have come to power, and how it may have ended with any markers of her passing obliterated by those who would rather not have remembered it.Gedge's characters are compelling, multifaceted characters, and much as the reader might like a surprise that turns the tables, they are subject to the forces of tradition and the realities of their situation.
Who knows what really happened, but what's here is powerful.
With a book that spans more than 400 pages, that reluctance is a bad omen, indeed.While Ms. Gedge provides a scenic background that very nearly transports one to ancient Egypt and colors her characters with a revealing, delicate, fine brush, I'm sorry to say that I just could not sympathize, empathize, or particularly care one whit about them.
Sorry, again, but true.But if you don't mind reading 400-plus pages of the antics of a bipolar, cross-dressing, incest-practicing Crown Prince Princess, then you'll enjoy this one.
backpack while wearing cement galoshes, in my never-to-be-humble opinion.
I will be honest. I cried at the end. Yes! I did! That's how much I loved this book. I loved how the main character was strong and did not back down from the challenge society set upon her, how she interacted in the politics (view spoiler)[and I liked her romance with Senmut (hide spoiler)]. I really loved the interaction the main character had with others (view spoiler)[ even though I felt she should have fought her stepbrother more for the crown (hide spoiler)]. Even though it is a bit lengthl
I loved how the main character was strong and did not back down from the challenge society set upon her, how she interacted in the politics (view spoiler)[and I liked her romance with Senmut (hide spoiler)].
I really loved the interaction the main character had with others (view spoiler)[ even though I felt she should have fought her stepbrother more for the crown  (hide spoiler)].
It should be noted, this is a historical fiction and not meant to follow the exact details of what did happen in history.
(I did like how it mostly followed actual facts)
Loved this book. How did I miss this author? I'll be back tracking to read most of what she has to offer. Carefully researched historical fiction is hard to come by. I appreciate it greatly.
3,75 stars - English hardcover - Thanks Amy for letting me read this book. Egypt keeps my interrest. 🌸🌷🌸
3.25 starsIn ancient Egypt (I looked it up, and Hatshepsut lived around 1500 BC).
Hatshupset ruled Egypt as a female Pharaoh (normally only a title/position for men).
So, most of the second half, I would rate good, but there were still parts that lost my interest.
It seemed, at times, like what happened was drawn out longer than it needed to be.
I would have liked to know how much of the story was true, but there was no author’s note, unfortunately.
All that being said, what an incredible woman, especially for the time.
Decided on a rating between “ok” and “good”.
Me ha encantado conocer y saber más de la vida de esta mujer que sabía que podía llevar a su país más lejos pero que por otras cuestiones no podía hacerlo, sí, precisamente, haber nacido mujer. Y veremos cómo soluciona ese detalle. Salvo porque se hacía lento en ciertas partes me ha gustado bastante.
I'm going to keep this short and simple. I was rather disappointed with the overall historical value of the novel, so I had to continually keep in mind the book was written in the 70s. That said, if you can look at it simply as a novel, you may enjoy it.
This is my desert island book. I first read it when I was 11 years old and have re-read it more than 100 times since. Although written as a romance, the feel of history coming to life permeates the story here. Hatshepsut, Senmut, Thothmes I, II and III are very real people. Excellent read.
I picked this book up when I was in Montreal and read it during my stay there. I enjoyed it so much that before I left, I went back and picked up everything else by her. A very good book.
Child of the Morning chronicles the life of one of Egypt’s Female Pharaohs, Hatshepsut.
When her older sister dies, Hatshepsut is now prepared to be Chief Royal Wife for Thutmose II.
Yet, when Thutmose I dies, Hatshepsut realizes that all of her father’s dreams of making her king have been in vain because Egypt cries for a male king to rule.
Hatshepsut reluctantly gives up her crown and becomes Chief Royal Wife for Thutmose II.
When Thutmose II died, Queen Hatshepsut steps in and crowns herself Pharaoh.
Child of the Morning is an excellent tribute to one of Egypt's most successful pharaohs.
The novel was originally written in 1977, which leaves a great deal of time since them for archeologists to discover more facts about Hatshepsut and her reign.
I do wonder what Gedge actually had to work with at the time, I feel it would give me greater ability to judge the novel.
At times you did feel as though Gedge took a fact from history and simply inserted it even if it did not flow with the story.A few things really bothered me about the novel.
The monuments(like obelisks) and temples she constructed in Karnak and Thebes remain as a testament to her successes,power and glory.In this book 'Hatshepsut' a prodigy whom her father (Tutmosis I) raised to be his successor as pharaoh,since his own son Tutmosis II is considered to be weak and unfit to rule.
'Hatshepsut' is the daughter of Tutmosis I from his royal queen Ahamose,and Tutmosis II is born from his second wife Munsofret (a palace dancer).This view is contestable in a patriarchal ancient Egyptian society.
Also many place plots/coups keeps this story intriguing.The portrial of Tutmosis III as Hatshepsut's is also contestable.
Pauline Gedge brought her to life for me and made ancient Egypt so much more accessible.
Personally, I don’t think Pauline Gedge’s dreamer could have achieved half of what the real Hatshepsut did.
I do prefer an Iron Lady to an Aida, I must admit.Other than my disapproval of Hatshepsut’s portrayal, Child of the Morning is excellent light historical fiction.
Pauline Gedge has a talent for spellbinding writing and she inserts many authentic details from Egyptian life into her novel.So what do you think of Hatshepsut?
Was she an Iron Lady or a dreamer, as Pauline Gedge portrays her?I give this book 4/5 stars.
As a woman, I can not but wonder.
Why bother men when a woman in power?
Is that the events in this book that really took place in ancient times, but almost nothing has changed until today.
And so they were bothered that the woman was in power that they destroyed all the hallmarks of her reign.
I am proud of her and all the other lone female characters that have historically proven to be great when they are in power.
I wonder whether mankind is much better and went much further in its development that there were several women who were able to decide the fate of mankind.
I'm wondering if I've just been reading too much Egyptian historical fiction lately as I have not been all that enthralled by the last few. My big issue with this story was the main character Hatshepsut. What a completely annoying person. She starts out as a entirely spoiled child and keeps that attitude and personality right until her death. I am pretty positive that a woman in her position would have needed more tact, charm and political astuteness to survive as long as she did as Pharaoh.
I read this book many years ago and followed it up by reading a biography of Hathshepsut the only woman pharoh that Egypt ever had. Pauline Gedge is an excellent author, I also enjoyed her book on Heloise and Abelard. In Child of the Morning, she kept very strictly to the historical record, only fleshing out some relationships but holding to the essence and provable events. A good and unusual read.
La figura di Hatshepsut è forse una delle più affascinanti in tutta la storia dell'antico Egitto, questa donna capace di sfidare la tradizione e di incarnare lo spirito del dio alla guida del suo paese come Faraone. Ho apprezzato molto il personaggio, lontano dalle Mary Sue: Hat è sicuramente bella e fuori dal comune, ma ha anche un caratteraccio e le sue qualità non la metteranno al riparo dall'inevitabile declino. Una buona lettura.
Mi reconciliación con la lectura. Un buen libro sin duda, que hace pensar y también te emociona en varios momentos. Te hace amar y detestar a partes iguales la tozudez y necedad de los personajes principales y te despierta la curiosidad por saber más de la historia real que hay tras la teoría desarrollada por Pauline Gedge.
Gedge never disappoints. Gently paced story with incredible historical details. A must read for fans of ancient Egypt.
Plus qu'une histoire de pouvoir et d'amour, je crois c'est la peinture si vivante de l'époque pharaonique qui m'a marquée et qui me frappe de nouveau maintenant que je l'ai relue et que je peux la comparer à ce que j'ai vu et ressenti lors de mon séjour en Égypte il y a quelques années.
Mais cela n'enlève absolument rien au charme et à l'exotisme de la description de cette Égypte vivante, frissonnante, de l'atmosphère étouffante du désert aux rivages verts et odorants du Nil. Et finalement, c'est ce que je retiendrais de cette histoire : la sensation d'avoir vécu, l'espace d'un instant, dans ce pays merveilleux et terrible à la fois qui continue de me faire rêver...
Historical fictional account of the first woman pharaoh.
The story begins with her as a rambunctious, mischievous 10 year old.
When she has the power, she appoints him to make her monuments (which often seems to be Hatshepsut's main goal in life).As she gains power/godhood she acquires allies and enemies, many because they think it is wrong for a woman to be pharaoh.Much cultural and physical details and political machinations.The focus is on the royalty.
Slaves are often mentioned, but the story is never from their point of view.The primary emphasis is on interpersonal relationships, particularly among family members (who can be the worst enemies).

