https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16213.The_Hot_Zone
Terror at the personal level.Very personal for me...I read this book while on night watch in the Army. I was eating cheap red licorice at a frenzied pace while I read from sheer nerves. The idea of bleeding out through every bodily opening was terrifying. The next morning I went to the bathroom and discovered that cheep red licorice passes nearly untouched through the human digestive system. It goes in red and comes out red - blood red. I very nearly screamed before I realized what I was seeing.I will NEVER forget this book.
Both species, the human and the monkey, were in the presence of another life form, which was older and more powerful than either of them, and was a dweller in blood. I read this book on the same days I was watching the Netflix adaptation of  The Haunting of Hill House, which had a curious effect on me. Because, well, the TV show might be very creepy, but I have to say it is nothing compared to the horror of this book.That's what The Hot Zone is: A true horror story.Preston uses interviews and f
Because, well, the TV show might be very creepy, but I have to say it is nothing compared to the horror of this book.That's what The Hot Zone is: A true horror story.Preston uses interviews and first-hand accounts to tell the story of the Ebola virus and its various strains.
I didn't know that it is one of the most infectious diseases that have likely ever existed on this planet.It acts like a predator, lying quietly in wait for a host so it can multiply and multiply to destructive effect.
Read this while you are eating on a plane next to a sick person.
This book will make you want to wash your hands...
It may cause some unsettling dreams.
This book has singlehandedly accomplished my vow to never visit Africa.
I'm fine with staying places on the globe where I'm less likely to scrape my hand on bat guano and die a horrible, convulsive, putrifying death 36 hours later.
I'm funny that way.Also, in combination with the book 'The Coming Plague' by Laurie Garrett, with reading this I became convinced that our destruction as a species will come not at the tragedy of nuclear annihilation, which I had feared my entire conscious life...
My take-away thoughts from reading The Hot Zone:A. You do  not  want to get infected with Ebola.B. If A above occurs, head immediately and directly to your nearest lawn and garden store, purchase a pack of rat poison, mix with vodka, and drink your last.C. Repeat B above until dead.D. Again, you do  not  want to get infected with Ebola.
Peter Jahrling is a civilian virologist also employed by the Army who along with an eighteen year old intern named Tom Geisbert (who's an ace with an electron microscope) inhales tissue samples later testing positive for Ebola, putting both men on a self-imposed death watch.Ebola's predatory attacks on human beings in central Africa are like murder scenes.
They then hemorrhage in violent epileptic fits the Army calls "crashing and bleeding out," Ebola's program for transmitting to a fresh host through infected blood.One of the hosts is a twenty-year old who Preston calls "Nurse Mayinga." She's infected at Ngaliema Hospital in Kinshasa in September 1976 caring for a nun stricken with an Ebola-like replicating agent.
Not with the book and not affecting my rating because it was possibly not known, but I would have liked answers to two questions.A) How did a strain of Ebola travel to America in monkeys from the Philippines when until this point it had been tracked only to the jungles of Africa?B) When the outbreak was discovered and the human workers had been taking no precaution against it (as they were unaware), why were they free to go home to their families and mix amongst the community?The reason I stopped short of giving this book a 5 star rating is I thought there was a considerable amount of dialogue 'made up' to fill the story.
The subtitle for Richard Preston's 1994 bestseller reads: "The Terrifying True Story of the Origins of the Ebola Virus." How much you enjoy The Hot Zone might just hinge on what you know about Ebola going in and, by extension, how seriously you take that subtitle.
Learning how pathogens jump from one species to another is vitally important to preventing future outbreaks and is a hot topic among research communities today.Closing ThoughtsMuch like this review, the central character of Preston's fan favorite is the omnipresent virus.
Since the book is quite dated by now, it is worthwhile reading Preston's update on the latest developments pointed to in the thread below by Sarah.Friends Sarah and Ted have both mentioned the aforementioned New Yorker article by Preston, and I myself am very impressed with it, so I'm going to link to it in the review itself; it is here: http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/201...What tends to impress me about Preston is that he goes to a lot of trouble with his research, and he then presents it in a form that is easy to understand for the most ignorant of laymen.
This book scared the crap out of me. Not only is it terrifying to read about this insane virus, but I've never read non-fiction work with such urgent and visceral power. I felt splattered and shattered by the time the whole ghastly mess was all over, but was feverishly excited to read such fantastic writing, too. Definitely only for those with strong stomachs.
Things I have learnt while reading this book:-- Telling you random things about people you are introducing in the book will "make people like them more" (I reckon he got that out of a creative writing class) and also builds up tension.
Look at how much we have learnt and advanced in 20 years!But then, I found out that he is known to have exaggerated not only the effects of the disease, but the specific "outbreak" of Ebola he is recounting in the book.
What a terrifying book.The Hot Zone documents the journey of filoviruses in the human race.
Specifically, this book documents the time when Ebola snuck its way into Washington DC.
Ebola is a highly contagious virus that slowly turns your body to mush.
Essentially, Ebola liquefies people.
Let me be the first one to say that this book scares me in the most fascinating way.
This book just made me so aware of everything.
I didn't have to follow the book word by word, and it still managed to either fascinate or terrify me for the entirety of the book (which is no small feat).And all I mean to say by that rambling is: "Scarier than fiction," indeed.
A major page turner about Ebola. It is not fiction, but reads like it. A must read for anyone interested in potential biological time bombs.10/19/14 - I know, hardly a review at all. I was not writing reviews back then. But Richard Preston was interviewed by Alexandra Alter for the NY Times this week and it seems a particularly worthwhile read, given the content of the book and the current hysteria. Updating a Chronicle of Suffering: Author of ‘The Hot Zone’ Tracks Ebola’s Evolution
But the study of disease and populations and epidemics was brought to a head the first time I read this book around 2003 (I think).
Now with the H5N1 poised to jump species and AIDS still an ongoing problem and globalization, environmental and water shortages are present-day issues I think that it would be crazy to think that viruses vs.
However I don't think it's crazy that the "winner" of viruses vs.
The people are painted richly for a book type of this, not as characters but profiles and even if you already know the outcome of the Reston incident there are moments you can still be on the edge of your seat.
An absolutely terrifying true story with very descriptive details of the horrors resulting from a highly infectious and deadly virus brought into the US from central African rain forests in the 1980's. WHEW! What a nightmare! (view spoiler)[Unbelievable that tighter restrictions were not placed on importer's of monkeys sooner. (hide spoiler)]
I would have truly believed it to be fictional horror.But no, it is real...and it is scarier than hell.I think another layer revealed as the book concluded was the idea that the true virus is us...and that mass casualties resulting from the likes of Ebola are Mother Natures way of combating mass population of a destructive organism...Yep, that would be us human primates.
If we don't get our act together soon, Mother Nature will do it for us.
Since March 2014 an epidemic of Ebola virus—specifically the Ebola Zaire strain—has been ravaging West Africa. More than 800 people in Guinea, Liberia, and Sierra Leone have died so far. Here’s what Richard Preston has to say about Ebola Zaire in The Hot Zone: It attacks connective tissue with particular ferocity; it multiples in collagen, the chief constituent protein of the tissue that holds the organs together. In this way, collagen in the body turns to mush, and the underlayers of the skin d
I will spare you most of the gory details but in The Hot Zone Preston doesn’t, so now I know this: Ebola Zaire ends with complete body liquefaction.
I also know this: in one hospital room where a patient died from the virus, every surface in the room—walls, bed, floor—was covered with blood, which, of course, was covered in hundreds of millions of festering Ebola virus, waiting to hop to the next living host.
Preston loses his way at the midpoint of the book when he leaves Africa for Washington D.C., where a facility of lab monkeys start dying from another strain of the Ebola virus.
About the time this book was published, I was in elementary school and first learning about Ebola.
CHECK.Well, I'm glad I didn't read this when I was a kid, because Ebola is even more horrifying than my little 12 year old mind could have conceived.
It didn't help that I was burning up with a fever the majority of the time I was reading the book, but EVEN STILL.
Written narratively, this book maps the first known outbreaks of filoviruses (Ebola and its sisters and cousins).
If you're really sensitive about animals (the treatment of them, etc.) maybe give this book a pass.
I had heard of Ebola many times but this really brought to home just how horrifying and deadly it really is.
The day that virus mutates into an airborne pathogen is the day the human race faces extinction.
Your body literally liquifies while you are still alive.
Every organ fails and half of them pass out of your body before you're gone.
You end up a mess of slime and bone.We have close many times and it's getting more likely that we will soon face a serious pandemic.
Let's just hope it's not something with a mortality rate like Ebola Zaire.
I read this book almost 20 years ago, and to this day I still recall the chilling horror the authors predicted stats of what could happen to the worlds population if this disease where to spread beyond the confines of darkest, rural Africa.
It's more than terrifying.Read this book and any others you can find about this disease and arm yourselves with the little bit of knowledge that there is about it.
Also I think this book would be a lot of fun for people who are super visual readers and see scenarios clearly in their head.
So while I was discussing this book with people I was thinking about Curious George and what if The Man with the Yellow Hat brought him to America with Ebola.
A concept.Then someone else suggested that Curious George would more likely have SIV (monkey version of HIV) instead of Ebola and then I thought of another concept where The Man in the Yellow Hat brings Curious George to America, fucks him, and then becomes the guy who originated HIV in humans.
And with THE Stephen King mentioned that the book gave him the creeps, it really stirred my curiosity.The book is about the reality of discovering viruses (Cue Big Bang Theory theme: Australopithecus would really have been sick of us Debating out while here they're catching deer (we're catching viruses).
This tells the story of how scientist was able to discover three of the deadliest viruses that ravaged mankind during the 90s, Ebola and Marburg viruses.
How these viruses were discovered, how they were spread, and how the experts were able to control the disease.
It gives a look at filoviruses, their history in human diseases (at least from the time they were recognized into the book's present.
We take a look at AIDS but we also look at Ebola.This includes Ebola Reston a mutation of the Ebola virus that became extremely easy to transmit (it is air borne) released in a "monkey house" in Reston VA.
The saving grace for us (humans) is that it turned out not to be deadly to humans.
Had the air borne virus been deadly to humans he would have been the vector.I'd think the book will give you pause.
It is written in a fairly confusing style I wanted at first to liken it to the writing of "The Pushcart War", a newspaper-y summative.
The best way I can explain it is that it has an extremely military feel.
The details and facts are clearly laid out, but not journalistically as in "The Pushcart War".
Secondly, and this is what makes it the best thriller Stephen King has ever read, is the extreme brutal graphic quality of the writing.
After finishing the book...yes, I consider this to be a quality use of your time and I would even read it again.
Picture a man with a mystery illness- actually a level 4 virus that is hot and highly contagious and will kill 9 out of every 10 humans who gets it- flying on a plane beside you on the way to a hospital in Nairobi , coughing and hacking blood and tissue into an airplane barf bag.
We, the human race, have dragged monkeys from their homes in Africa to other places so to kill them for their cells and in doing so we have unleashed a horror more deadly than the worst tsumani or hurricane.
Preston begins his story at Kitum Cave, beneath Mt. Elgon which straddles the border between Uganda and Kenya.
There are stories of native villages in the 1960's located on the north side of Mt. Elgon having been afflicted with a nameless disease with Ebola-like symptoms.
The book's introductory pages resemble the ominous series of warnings and protocols for accessing a Level 4 Hot Zone lab.
In addition to the U.S. Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases (USAMRID) that employs Nancy Jaax and her husband, the CDC, state and county health officials share both responsibilities and liabilities while deflecting media attention that might lead to panic.
Richard Preston’s book reads like a thriller but is also a tense account of an Ebola outbreak among laboratory monkeys in the bustling heart of Washington D.C.There are two parts to the book : 1.
Preston comments later that viruses like the filovirus and the AIDS virus might be nature’s way of balancing things out.
Yes, they finally control the contagion and that is that !The parts where Preston describes the virus and its effects on mankind are absolutely chilling in their effect and also from what I read later of the book, some of it has been a tad exaggerated.
Scary as shit book.
Makes you think what kind of things are going around the world behind closed doors where people in Hazmat suits are handling viruses that will make you bleed out of every orifices in your body.
I don't usually read these kinds of books but this one I enjoyed because it was not only scary at a nonfiction level, but also because with ever increasing populations and the unbalanced standards of living going around in the world, it is only a matter of time before a new virus emerges and wipes out 90% of us, leaving the other 10% who were strong enough to survive to scratch their heads and try to figure out how to repopulate the world left in the ruin.
My husband is a nurse in one of the busiest hospitals of a city that holds the largest port in Europe and I'm already way too paranoid, so reading this book was not a good idea.It's one of the scariest non-fiction books I have ever read - the entire first part, that describes the evolution of the virus and its effects on the human body is plain old Cronenberg-style body horror.
It will be back.And he was rightIt was a good read nonetheless - I learned a lot about Ebola and her sister viruses, and the way the diseases were researched by USAMRIID.
Warning: Do not read this book if you have a weak stomach.
🤢🤮 The Hot Zone is one of those books that I’ve had on my to-read list for ages.
I became aware of it through the TV series back in 1994.
But when is it ever a good time to read a book on Ebola?
This is a book about a nasty, nasty virus that does unimaginable things to the human body.
If reading a book about something like that interests you, you will want to check this out.
It is told in an engaging style reminiscent of a Michael Crichton thriller.
