https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/874419.The_Civil_War_Vol_3
In the spring of that year, another recently-appointed Union commanding general, Ulysses Grant, launched a multi-pronged attack designed to hit the Confederate forces in numerous locations ranging West-to-East from Arkansas to Virginia.
One of the Civil War's most dramatic chapters occurred while the Confederate government abandoned Richmond, beginning its itinerant railroad journey to avoid being captured, while Lee evacuated his army westward in the long-shot attempt to get the survivors of his forces to meet with General Johnston's army in North Carolina.
Review to follow.
I have spend most of the last three weeks reading the 1,100-odd pages of Shelby Foote's The Civil War Volume III: Red River to Appomattox.
I had mislaid the book for several years and was so delighted when I found it behind other books on a shelf that I began reading it at once.Unlike most of the other major histories of the Civil War, Foote's 3-volume series is written from he point of view of the Confederacy.
Foote's trilogy is a good reference for those who are looking for a thorough, sequential narration of the events of the Civil War. The series does not step back and analyze the events, so you don't really ever get a sense of the bigger picture or what the pivotal moments of the conflict were.
These 3 volumes are a play-by-play, mostly of the battles, but also cover some of the politics in both Washington and Richmond.
I found it valuable in that it helped me gain an understanding of the overall flow of the war and how the events unfolded.
towards the end of this massive trilogy foote shows a bit more of a sensitivity towards certain issues that he was maybe more ignorant of when he started.
in the course of writing this series, foote lived through the civil rights era in the south, and i think it shows, particular in his comments about the awful failures of reconstruction.
or maybe im just searching for things to validate why i enjoyed this series so much, which i did, despite foote's flaws and obvious sympathies for the confederate cause.
Shelby Foote finishes his mammoth three volume narrative of the American Civil War with amazing erudition and, at times, passionate prose.
Despite it being longer in length than his two predecessors, Foote manages to balance his switching from fast battle narrative to slow detail-bogged passages better than the first two volumes.
But, if you do, then you will have gained a greater appreciation for what Mr. Foote calls THE central event in American history, if not in world history.
Shelby Foote did such a great job keeping the narration balanced on both sides, and engaging.
The combination of the three books is rather lengthy, and had I spent the time to review the maps at the same time, I probably would have enjoyed it even more.Even as it was being narrated, I found the ending of this pivotal war to be bittersweet, and I genuinely felt sorry for the south.
As in the previous two volumes, Shelby Foote's ability to render a general yet hugely informative history of the Civil War is simply astounding.
One comes away from finishing this last volume of the trilogy with a sense of accomplishment, of having had the privilege to read one of the great works of American literature.
The trilogy is very much more than a history book.
From the dip pen of Shelby Foote, history becomes literature.
Shelby Foote has accomplished it and the reader, at the conclusion of this third volume, can take pride in having been there with him for each and every word.
Have often returned to a chapter or two for reference, re-piqued interest froma TV show, or say when we biked around the Vicksburg battle field one summer. The interviews with Shelby Foote in Ken Burns' Civil War series were fascinating. Inspired, a girlfriend, who was from Mississippi, gave me a volume for each of the next holidays, birthday's etc. These books read like novels, hard to stop once you get going, even though yeah we know how it ends. Can't endorse this series enough. I'll read them again when I have the time.
That Shelby Foote could produce 3,000 pages of prose of this quality is one of the greatest achievements of American literature, let alone narrative history.
Volume III begins with Grant's move to the East to become the general in chief, the man to win the war.By chance this week the NATO forces ended combat roles in Afghanistan and the news clips pointed out the great sacrifice of 2,200 American dead during the course of 13 years of war.
As a contrast, Grant marched south with his army to give General Lee serious battle.At Cold Harbor Virginia Grant attacked and in in 8 minutes 8,000 Americans were dead, Almost all of them Union soldiers.
Before Grant marched south to fight Lee, six Federal generals had done the same, been whipped, and then retreated back north.
The facts of the Civil War are pretty well documented throughout the 3000 pages or so that Foote has written but it's a testament to his writing ability that these books are such a compelling read.
Here's a great quote from the third book that gives you an idea how great, and darkly funny, Foote is as a writer:"Westward to the Mississippi and north to the Ohio, Confederates did what they could to offset the loss of Atlanta by harassing the supply lines that sustained its Federal occupation.
If I had to find one fault about these books is that maybe Foote is leading the narrative here just a little bit.
I can't even begin to imagine how Mr. Foote must have felt in completing this work, three thick volumes telling the story of one of the most crucial times in our nation's history.The Civil War, Vol. 3: Red River to Appomattox concludes an epic but does not satiate my passionate interest in the Civil War itself.
It is to the author's great credit that he has told this monumental story not as a series of dry historical battles and campaigns, but rather toured our bleeding nation, North and South, for those pivotal years describing events as they unfolded with compassionate reserve, fascinating insight, and a gallant dash of panache thrown in for good measure.
Mr. Foote gives us their voices.Highly recommended!
I reserve 5 star ratings for the best. I never expected to rate this volume this high. Foote never provided citations in any of his Civil War histories, but the narrative makes up for his lack of footnotes. Foote's recounting of the battle of Franklin and his comments about the end of the war and how the men who fought it knew they were ending something special, a brotherhood, both North and South, that was hard to explain to those who had not fought, was beautifully written.
good story of civil war 3 books each almost 1000 pages. You could say exhaustive
Shelby Foote's Narrative is sometimes called the "American Illiad," and that name fits well for a war saga that is nearly endless, seamlessly blends history and mythology, glows from the page with epic and overblown language.
He does, however, by omission and commission, seek to exonerate some of the Confederacy's most evil men, such as Henry Wirz, the commandant of the nightmarish Andersonville prison, Nathan Bedford Forrest, one of the most talented military leaders in US history but also the mass murderer (exonerated unconvincingly by Foote) of surrendering Colored United States Soldiers and the founder (ignored by Foote) of the Ku Klux Klan.
Even after the 14th Amendment, the struggle of the Negros continued, as it still does.If Robert Lee was a military fox in the South, Lincoln was his counter part in politics in the North.
His untimely death on April 15, 1865, a few days after Lee's surrender on April 9, memorialized him to eternity but also undercut the Reconstruction of the South, ushering in the era of the rampant corruption of American politics and businesses, the era of to what Mark Twain called "the Gilded Age." But it was Lincoln's spirit of tolerance and compassion, conveyed to General Grant during a brief meeting held only a few days or weeks prior to the assassination, that went a long way to a peaceful surrender.
No, not the intensive detail (Gettysburg takes as long to read as the battle did to fight), the personable style, with frequent uses of words like "practicable"), or the kind attention he gives to both sides.
What I loved about the books was that you knew what it was like to be there, you get the whole story of Lincoln's assassination, and the event we we told was the surrender at Appomatox took weeks to come about, with great deal of pursuit.
His house was selected as the site of the surrender negotiations, thus poor Mr. McLean was part orthopedist major engagement of the war and one of the last events.
This last volume of Shelby Foote's narrative history of the Civil War is massive.
But, in truth, there are 100+ pages after Lee's surrender, as he chronicles each surrender the confederate made (there were at least four) and the capture of CSA President Jefferson Davis.
Foote's compelling motivation seems to have been to "tell the story" as clearly as possible to give dignity to those who lived it.
It is a world of well known generals and little known soldiers, of self righteous politicians and freed slaves.
The book is an achievement, a narrative so complex it is astounding to see Foote handle it.
The author says somewhere, "if you don't know the Civil War, you don't know America." Foote marches us through four long years that shaped America as much as any other in our history.
South, Foote explains the southern perspective in a way I had not previously understood.
Some accuse him of "sympathizing" with the southern cause.
On the other hand, the blood shed by the Union succeeded in subduing the Southern territories, but not the Southern hearts and minds.
Now more than 100 years later, there is much to hope for to finish the work begun then.
The first two volumes of this trilogy are full of Southern victories.
In the third volume, the tenor of the war changes, with more and more Northern successes, as the overwhelming numbers and resources of the Union finally take their toll.
Although both sides occasionally faced starvation for both horses and men (the armies had to take forage with them), the threat became much realer for the Greys, as the war ground to a close.
That said, there can be no doubt that this trilogy is a monumental contribution to the literature of the Civil War.

The final volume of Foote's magisterial epic continues with beautiful writing, sharp insights, and a general (if mild) Southern sympathy.
While obviously a colorful character, Foote devotes more attention to Nathan Bedford Forrest than is strictly warranted.
The first volume started with Jefferson Davis taking the oath of office for the Presidency and ended with his death.
It's fitting that Davis bookends the trilogy and while some might call that unduly sympathetic to the South, I didn't think so.
Thematically it makes the most sense.Other works go into more detail and probably correct some of the things Foote got wrong or overstated (or understated).
So I guess this is the review I would review the entire series. These Civil War books are nothing short of remarkable and a must-read for scholars of the Civil War. I will some of his battle descriptions can get a little dry. If there were more maps it probably would be less so, as the descriptions are so detailed that it can be difficult to keep the picture straight in your head.I must say this last volume had some of my favorite parts of the entire work, especially the parts where Grant and Lee are discussing terms of surrender.
I have just finished this majestic trilogy and feel a sense of awe at both the events and people the work describes, as well as the incredible talents of the man who devoted so much of his life to tell their stories.
This trilogy has taken its place now as my favorite book, not just of history but of any kind.
I am sad to come to the end of this journey I have been on for the past almost five months.
It is one I will treasure always and am sure I will repeat many times throughout the years to come.
The longest book of the three, I read it the fastest. For the first half, I just wanted to get to the end. The soliders are exhausted, sick, and and deserting. The generals are overwhelmed and getting sloppy. The war loses any elegance and descends into an interminable slugfest. It's when Sherman and Sheridan kick things into high gear that you feel that the thing might end. I also enjoyed getting to know Jefferson Davis, in all his strength and delusion as to the ultimate trajectory of his nation.
a truly fascinating and detailed account of the end of the civil war. i've spent about a year reading this trilogy, and it was well worth it. as Lincoln said after this re-election in 1864: "In any future great national trial, compared with the men of this, we shall have as weak, and as strong; as silly and as wise; as bad and good. Let us, therefore, study the incidents of this, as philosophy to learn wisdom from, and none of them as wrongs to be revenged."
Finally finished volume 3 of this amazing Civil War trilogy. The narrative is fantastic and never gets boring or sounding like a text book. This book covers everything and was a great supplement after my reading of Bruce Catton's three volume set about the Army of the Potomac as well as Cernow's recent Grant Bio, along with the bios of Custer, Sheridan, and Sherman that I've read in the last 2 years. Worth your time if you want to know your history.
Covering final year of the war, Foote brings a southern perspective without being partisan. In some places he could have used a good editor, and, while I understand why he chose to leave out footnotes, I would have liked to see them. Still the best of the trilogy. Must read for Civil War buffs. Should read for history buffs.
Loved this series of books. It was a little hard to keep track of everyone listening to the audio book, especially since there were generals or soldiers on both sides with the same names, but nonetheless I enjoyed this in-depth view of most of the battles and found his description of the men and their personalities really well done.
