https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/544257.Midnight_Alley
The plot is very similar to the previous books: Eve dresses up Goth and whines, Shane mopes and broods and gets in fights, Michael mopes and feels misunderstood, and Claire complains that she's not a kid while getting into the worse possible situations she can get herself into.
I wish the vampires were the main focus and the kids were the side story because both Myrnin and Amelie are underused.I'm still having the same problem with this series that I've had from the beginning; Caine has some great ideas but she executes them poorly.
I've got friends telling me this series only gets better, so I should keep reading.
It seems that since the moment she stepped into town trouble have a way of finding her and now that she has signed her life over to Amelie she can't escape getting even more entangled with the city's vampires.Claire has some tough things to work through.
And when his best friend turns into a vampire, to save HIS fucking ass, instead of giving him the benefit of the doubt he goes all prejudiced and "You would be better off dead." What an asshole.The moment Michael called him on his bullshit I was sooo happy.
More world building, some new faces, more information, some character growth…After three books, I am giving up on trying to decide how I feel about the characters.
Well, punch him in the face and then run like hell.Goodies: She’s fire.
She’s treating Claire like her kid sister, but unlike Michael, she doesn’t consider her to be an innocent child that needs to protected.Baddies: She lost it for a second during the second book, but that’s minor slip considering the amount of fun that she brings into the series.
This series would've been so much better if it was told from a multiple POV, especially from the Vampire's perspective.
I was really prepared to like this series but all the teenage angst, the boring plot, the stupid mishaps and even more stupid heroine, who we are told time and time again is supper intelligent, makes this series excruciating.
I especially wanted more of the batty old vampire called Myrnin.
I kept reading this series because of the hype and because I was told things improve but I'm not seeing it.
4.5 stars This is my favourite in the series so far because we're introduced to Myrnin who is nuts but endearing and I always loved him.
The more I read, the more I enjoy this series.
The characters are developing nicely, and we get to see more of the vampire society undergirding the town.
We also meet a fascinating new character, Myrnin.
And the poor kid is still only sixteen.
She handles all of this with as much grace as she can muster, and she’s mature for her age.
But she’s still a kid.
However, when things start getting crazy, as they always do in Morganville, the friends band together and tackle their problems as one.
My favorite thing about this series so far is the friendship these four share.
Fans of Morganville Vampires rejoice!
We finally got a book that lives up to this series potential.
Which is cool.I really love this series and it pains me to give these books less than five stars.
Morganville Vamps can do five stars easily.
It just doesn’t work too hard to reach that for some reason unknown to me yet.I never felt like continuing a series after giving the first book three stars.
That means that I found the series meh.
Meh doesn’t want me to instantly buy the book and find out what happens next.
And yet Morganville always leaves me wanting more.
Once again, the author picks right up where the previous book left off.
You turning into a fang-banger?" (Shane to Eve)There's a big secret that Amelie has told to Claire and she is to tell NO ONE!
Eve gets bad news about a family members freedom and let's just say this "someone" is out for revenge.You won't believe who shows up at the end!
You will be left very satisfied and at the edge of your seat.The characters are as awesome as ever in Midnight Alley!!
New characters come into the picture with full force!!I love this series!!
Read #2Started on April 30, 2018Finished on May 2, 2018I am such trash for Claire/Shane, it's ridiculous.Read #1Started on February 11, 2011Finished on February 15, 2011
Still only 3 stars for these books. This book not a 4 because Shane needs to get his crap together.
review by Saluki*Warning: possible spoilers ahead.*The third book in the Morganville Vampires series picks up where book two left off.
Although Eve and Claire have adjusted to the fact that Michael is a vampire, Shane is having a very difficult time.
I'm eager to see what happens in future books as Myrnin and Claire's friendship grows.
It is a constant frustration to Claire, but shows an impressive level of maturity for Shane.Speaking of Shane, he is having a hard time accepting the fact that Michael is a vampire.
Michael, Shane, Claire and Eve continue to adjust to their roles as roommates, friends and players in the vampire politics of Morganville.
Yes they successfully saved Shane and stopped his dad from making a mondo-mistake...but the trade off was Michael is now a full fledged Vamp, Claire is pledged to Amelie and the part of the town that didn't already distrust and dislike Shane now has joined the other side.
Its hard for me not to see that romantically (especially as Claire seems apt to calling him gorgeous every little while).Amelie proves to be more then her mettle in this book.
Oh and the reappearance of two other characters is less welcome.I think the most interesting addition is Myrnin, a very old vampire friend of Amelie who studies alchemy and is losing his mind.
(view spoiler)[So much has happened in this freaking book!!Claire still makes stupid decisions with her life.
Oh yeah, Claire's parents are moving into town.
They have a founder's house but I feel like shit is going to go down after they have officially moved in.Oliver is still creepy and crazy.
I also still hate Jason.Another thing that threw me off was Monica.
I hate when people are fake nice and that's exactly what Monica was doing to Claire.
And I totally approve that because Monica is a fucking twatwaffle and deserves nothing from her or Claire.Other than that, I had no problems with this book.
The characters continue to draw my attention, and they grow on me more and more with every book.In this book, Claire must face the dangers and sacrifices that come with committing herself to Amelie, the highest vampire in the hierarchy.
I was surprised by his hostile behavior toward Michael; and as the story continued, I had hoped to see him face the fact that Michael is now a vampire.
I just hope he comes to terms with the new reality as the story continues because he's still one of my favorite characters in the book.Lastly, Myrnin was a nice addition to the storyline.
In Midnight Alley, we get to see more development of the characters (especially the vampires!) as well as the results of the big decision Claire makes at the end of Book 2, The Dead Girls' Dance.What about Midnight Alley made it better than the first two?
However, there is a lot of tension in Shane and Michael's relationship since the events of The Dead Girls' Dance, which is extremely realistic and in canon with how the characters (especially Shane) have been established in the series so far.Overall I would recommend reading this book if you are looking for a quick, entertaining read.
So a lot went down in this book.
I love Claire even when she is doing stupid shit - I mean she should know nobody leaves morganville.
I feel really bad for Shane I feel like he is constantly getting his ass kicked...Poor guy.
He is such a crazy guy but hes so lovely at the same time.
Him and Claire are like 2 peas in a pod, for real.
I like how every book we get a little more about the MC they are slowly developing in front of our eyes.
I like that.
Like seriously, how is it possible to make a book so easy and fun at the same time.
This is book number 3 and when I started reading the first one I couldn't believe there were so many of them.
But now that i'm in the third one already i might have faith in these books.
Claire is so strongly written I totally like her development.
I'm not sure about Shane tho, he was the dream boy in the beginning but now I just don't know how I feel.
Futhermore I like to thank Rachel for creating these books even when i'm almost 20 I really really love this novel!!!
I don’t know how many I can read before I have to stop for awhile, but right now I am enjoying every one that I have read, or am now reading.The main character of these books is Claire, a young freshman in college, one that has managed to get herself completely tied up with the vampires that run the town of Morganville.
Can’t forget to mention that, for all those that hate them.The main premise of this installment involves an extremely old vampire named Myrnin, that is new to the story this time around.
and I've deleted this a few times because my openers were a bit snarky – but the plot of this book was a problem to me.Stuff happened.
There's a tangle of stuff happening rather than a coherent plot.The dominant story line is that Amelie, big Founder Vampire, to whom Claire has pledged herself (for some reason.
Technically to protect her friends but the at the same time it's made clear that the protection doesn't extend to them) has ordered Claire to become the apprentice to Myrnin, an ancient and knowledgeable vampire.
Michael (spoiler) has become a Vampire, Shane (spoiler) is having difficulty accepting him thanks to his bigoted Father’s crusade against the undead, Eve (spoiler) is avoiding her psychotic brother, and Claire (spoiler) has accepted Amelie’s protection.
Other than that someone is killing college girls and leaving them at the glass house, which ultimately brings trouble to Claire and co.These books have become pulp reading for me.
I know these books are largely a coming of age story for her, but I am waiting for her to crystallize in my brain a degree or two more.
Midnight Alley is the third book in the Morganville Vampire series.
I have to say I enjoyed this book a bit more than the first two in the series.
Perhaps it's the fact that Michael now gets to be more involved by getting out of the house or just that working with Myrnin we learn some new secrets about the vampires.
Claire can still seem to act without thinking about her own safety sometimes but it did seem like she was a bit more careful about her safety in this book.
Another amazing book in a incredible series.
There is also plenty of moments in this book that make you laugh.The characters again are strong, funny and very loyal to each other despite it all.
Although Shane was a bit of jerk at times in this book but it looked like he was coming back to his old self by the end.
And how can you forget the introduction of Myrnin, he is a intersting character and I hope we see more of him in the next installment.Again another cliffhanger ending that makes me thankful that I have the next one here waiting.
I would like to say that this book is the book where everyone’s favourite character appears.
Within pages of Myrnin’s appearance he was my new favourite character (not a hard thing to do considering how the teens annoy me more than I’ll ever admit to).In all honesty, Myrnin is what makes this book so good.
For me this is a growth book where a lot of things relating to later books is added in.
I guess part of it is the fact that my hatred for the main characters started to grow around this point, but it is still a fun read.So, not my favourite but an important read.
SHANNNEEEE
This one kind of sucked compared to the first two.
This series continues to be filled with tropes, bad decisions and stupid characters but I still like it so much and that ending just left me wanting more.
Be for real, how fucking stupid is Oliver - a master vampire - to honestly think that Monica who has:• pushed Claire down a flight of stairs, • kidnapped & beat her, • poured acid on her• tried to set her on FIRE• & set it up for 3 men to drug and rape herseriously has any chance of becoming Claire's BFF???Then there's Shane.
Somebody should have called this girl's parents & had them come get their child, lock her in a fucking basement & not let her out until she grows into that "super brain" of hers and stops making the world's worst decisions!The one saving grace of this series - the vampires.
Granted, most of the time I’m completely interested, but occasionally I just want the book to be over.I like the storyline.
Michael has been his best friend for a long time and I’d expect him to know better than to think that becoming a vampire necessarily changes him or makes him a bad person.
Yes, I love Claire and Shane as a couple too--I really feel like their relationship is becoming stronger and better, but I think I like the gentleness and tenderness that Michael and Eve have in their relationship more.
Not only is she under Amelie's protection, but she's earned a place in the in-crowd (kind of), and gotten herself an apprenticeship with a not-so-stable scientist vampire, Myrnin.
But of course, Morganville has its own way handling those who don't keep the peace and follow the rules.Midnight Alley gives us a much clearer picture of how Morganville works.
We also learn a lot about the history of the town, particularly why the vampires are there in the first place.
There's also some great secret reveals about the seemingly all powerful vampires, and I can't wait to learn more about those!
I wanted to read this one because I have enjoyed the Morganville Vampire series until now, and I had a bit of break in review schedule.
Then there are just enough steamy moments without Shane crossing the line and had me kinda cursing his restraint, although I understand because of the minor thing.
He was sick and he's old and he's trying to find a way to cure the vampires and himself from the madness.
This one as usual left us at a place where I didn't really want to stop reading, but since these aren't review books, I knew that I had to put them to the side for now.
