https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2928578-sunset-pass
As Trueman starts to work for the family and get closer to Thiry, he discovers the secret of their success and a showdown with Ash becomes increasingly inevitable...Sunset Pass offers a classic cowboy set up of rustlin' and romance out on the range, told in the authentic vernacular ("Reckon I am", "powerful fond", "hoss" for horse etc) by one of the first gentlemen of the genre, but it's let down by a shallowness of story and the lameness of the romance, e.g.
That said, overall Sunset Pass is more Bonanza than The Big Country.p.s. I read the book online at Gutenberg Press website which mentions that their version was a magazine abridgment, so maybe all the best writing was sacrificed to streamline the story?
A romantic Western from the early 1900s when explicit sex and profanity were not the writer's crutch like modern Westerns. This a Romeo and Juliet type story after the hero returns home after a six year absence.
Zane Grey has been my favorite author of the old western novels since I was a child.
I remember reading his works at about 12 years old.
He has always been very descriptive and allows we, the readers to see places we've never been through the lens of his eyes and for me that is a definite positive for this author.
I'll probably go back and forth from the authors I read today to the ones like Zane Grey, as long as my Heavenly Father grants me the ability to read with my eyes and see with my mind.
Zane Grey fills a weird space in the writing world.
But there is more romance and far less action then has been seen in books actually marketed as chic lit.
This novel read super fast.
A very light, easy read that was comfortable and slowly tugged you towards the ending.
The language includes a little bit of archaic verbiage and the blanked out cuss words is an entertaining throw back.
Finally, as books go, this Skyhorse paperback didn't have the best print quality.
There were artifacts of the print process over some letters, and some words had characters missing entirely.
Sunset Pass was the first Zane Grey novel I have read were as I have seen many of his stories on the screen.This novel was not as I expected based on all the presentations of his stories that I have seen. All in all, even though it was well written, this particular book left me feeling as if a good part was left untold. That is the reason I gave it only three stars. Perhaps one of the other of his novels that I have purchased will be more to my liking.
Entertaining book with a good story line. As in most Zane Grey books dragged in spots. Good character development.
Much more enjoyable than the first time I read this book 25 or 30 years ago. The plot has more complexity than Grey's usual rustlers vs. ranchers stories, and the suggestion of incest that lurks throughout the book is something I either overlooked or didn't fully appreciate the first time around. The usual melodramatic twists at the end were expected and wouldn't have brought down the rating except that they were so completely unnecessary. The book would have been better if the author hadn't felt compelled to mop up the mess at the end.
One of my favorite stories by Grey. It's been twenty years since I read it, which in my case was a hc 1930's edition. I've looked for years, off and on, to find this book in a later edition, and haven't. It appears by this cover it was reissued in PB form at one time. To me the story was classic because it was simple, and didn't spend a lot of time on a trail but at a specific place where every element of the human condition could be explored.
What I really liked about this book was how the first chapter gave the reader the same sensation they'd have if they were to return to their hometown after a number of years. Read this book. If you stay away from your home town for a number of months or years and return, you will likely recall the opening of this novel. While certainly not one of Grey's masterpieces in terms of plot, I genuinely felt like I WAS Trueman Rock.
An entertaining, if predictable and formulaic, western adventure romance. The names of the characters in this book cracked me up: Trueman Rock (the hero, of course), Clink Peeples (the villain) and the little town of Wagontongue.
First time I have read a western and loved it! Read it in no time.
