https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444592.The_Unlit_Lamp
I have a presentiment that they mean to bottle you.’ I figured I would The Unlit Lamp before attempting Radclyffe Hall's more famous (or infamous) work The Well of Loneliness - simply because I wanted to see where her writing was coming from without having any expectations.
Radclyffe Hall doesn't quite manage to impress with her writing - there is a lot of telling rather than showing going on and a lot of repetition - but, to my surprise, I really liked The Unlit Lamp for being such an anti-hero of a book.It is as depressing as any Hardy novel I have read, and even when read as a kind of cautionary tale about wasted lives, selfishness, responsibility, and infuriating parental manipulation, the story kept its pace until the very last.Now I am still not sure who I want to slap more - Elizabeth or her mother.
Radclyffe Hall is one of my guilty pleasures. I just can't resist those honest, intense, miserable lesbians. The Unlit Lamp is the usual early 20th-Century tale of gay women who sacrifice their happiness to satisfy the wants and expectations of others, resulting in unhappiness all round and painful martyrdom for the central characters, who turn down every happiness offered them.
A medida que avanza la trama vemos cómo la relación entre Joan y Elizabeth, que llega a la casa de los Ogden como institutriz de las niñas, va evolucionando hasta convertirse en algo diferente al trato habitual entre una profesora y su alumna y que, aunque no llegue a mencionarse con todas las letras, implica un enamoramiento correspondido por las dos partes, del que la madre de Joan —entre nosotros: un bicho malo y egoísta— se da buena cuenta y trata de boicotear por medio del chantaje emocional a una hija con serias dificultades para negar nada a su pobre y delicada madre, que la necesita y a la que no puede abandonar.El motivo por el que creo mejor el título original que el de la traducción es que Joan da muestras de ser una chica especial, no solo por desviarse del canon de feminidad del momento —a diferencia de su hermana Milly, que es bonita, encantadora y una virtuosa del violín, todo ello muy deseable en una chica de la época, Joan es desgarbada, lleva el pelo corto y está más interesada en la ciencia, Oh!
Then there was Elizabeth the governess who had fallen in love with Joan and just wanted her to live her dreams and move to London with her, and was wonderful and patient but in the end had to salvage her sanity.
The hope that was the two young girls at the end, the randomness of Claudine showing up, the sad tragic lesbians that weren't able to find happiness because they wanted to live in London together instead of getting married and how no one understood that.
In a way I'm sad I read this in January as I don't think I'm going to read a book I love as much as this for the rest of the year.
The Unlit Lamp, the story of Joan Ogden, a young girl who dreams of setting up a flat in London with her friend Elizabeth (a so-called Boston marriage) and studying to become a doctor, but feels trapped by her manipulative mother's emotional dependence on her. It's grim, you want to shake Joan so much, but Radclyffe Hall writes the story not just for this one character but for all women whose lives are lived in quiet desperation submitting to the will of others. A powerful story to make anyone hesitant to jump at the chances life offers us.
Absolutely beautiful human insight. I don't think am so lucky that a college professor made me read Radclyffe Hall. You share the experiences with all of her characters so tangibly. I feel like there should be more Radclyffe Hall and Willa Cather in schools less Catcher in the Rye.
Even though The Well of Loneliness  has some really funky writing, I found it to be a pretty compelling and moving read. This one? It needed some serious editing. The writing wasn't as convoluted as TWoL, but it really should have been tightened up. The story itself was interesting but went a couple of directions, and wound up in a place, that didn't really make the tediousness of it all pay off.
Exquisitely written. Completely depressing. I loved it.
This was a slow-moving, character-based story about Joan Ogden's life, a girl who's smart and interested in medicine but constantly constrained by her parents, especially her mother's, small-mindedness and clingy love.
As Joan's childhood friend and suitor describes her mother: "She's like an octopus who's drained you dry.
It was based on the relationship of the characters and circulated around the same question again and again: Will Joan free herself from the trot of her family?
And the plans they made and Elizabeth's willingness to sacrifice her time like that, waiting for Joan to make up her mind, just all pointed there.
I really loved this book about women all trying to escape from their lives and squeezing each other too tight in the process.
That message could be a little heavy handed, and similar scenes happened several times, but it was very effective at showing the banality and monotony of the town where Joan lived.When I read the introduction, I was surprised to learn that Radclyffe Hall didn't think this was a book about lesbians - when she wrote The Well of Loneliness it was because she felt that kind of story hadn't been written yet, or at least not by her.
So much feels preordained as the novel begins, but it's a page-turner nonetheless.
Grappling head-on with the subjugation of women (within their own families) in a time not-so-distant from our own, the book particularly addresses the feelings of alienness gay people must certainly have felt as they recognized their own desires as different from the society at large.
The Unlit Lamp strikes me as a better-written work than The Well of Loneliness--but it's equally powerful, and if Hall occasionally stumbles, it feels of a piece with her clear characterizations--many of the characters strive to break precedent and tradition in their own ways and time and again these characters stumble as well.Heartfelt, heartbreaking, and very engaging; I highly recommend it.
I think the BBC or A&E should make a film or miniseries based on a book by Radclyffe Hall, preferably The Unlit Lamp or The Well of Loneliness.The Unlit Lamp is depressing, but don't let that stop you from reading it. According to the author, she was inspired to write this book when she saw an elderly mother with a middle-aged spinster daughter waiting on her. While I don't people sued these clinical terms in the 1920s, it is obvious to me that the protagonist's parents both have major cases of narcissist personality disorder.
Well, it's not exactly what I'd call "brilliant", but there was something rather darkly fascinating about it. It ended up being one of the fastest and most engrossing reads I've ever had, despite it telling a story that was next to impossible to stomach or to even morally comprehend. What can I say? It was a powerful read.
Good short fiction reading, giving the reader a feel of a simpler way of life around the turn of the 20th Century. The reader feels like a middle-class or upper middle-class young adult who likes to read a varity of books to improve intellect and imagination.
this book is not terrifying, but it creates an itch i can never satisfy. if you combime "mommie, dearest" with a piece of mildly lesbian-themed classic 19th century literature... you have the unlit lamp.
Beautifully written and awfully depressing, but what does one expect of Radclyffe Hall?
Very good but very sad. All about unfufilled ambition. Very well written and engaging. Tragic but very realistic story of the pepople who you love holding you back.
I love her writing style. The story is a page turner.
Above my expectations. RH IS a good writer (to my opinion)
a.m.a.z.i.n.g
