https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75866.Artaud_Anthology
My heart was palpating and racing because I already read on the internet much of this book.
The translation is one of the best I've ever read of Antonin Artaud, or any author I know of.
Breton also believed he was mad.) The book features text on the Red Race.
He says they never separated culture from civilization, and how our culture is full of 'larval confusion.' There's also an essay about opium - and why banning opium is not an optimal route.There's cartography in this book as well - akin to Crowley's work - and surprisingly, some of the best diction i've heard in literature.
"There is in every madman a misunderstood genius whose idea, shining in his head, frightened people, and for whom delirium was the only solution to the strangulation that life had prepared for him." Antonin Artaud Between the 15 and 19 I read the bulk of the western philosophers. Near the end of this period I was given this book by a friend. Artuad was Nuts and I identified with him!So, I swore off all western philosophy and heavy reading for the time being. I was too young! Now, at almost 30 I am ready to revisit my Mad friend.
I do not want it to end.
I cannot stop.
I want more.
Perhaps I can twist the book & ring him out for every last drop.
Every droplet poignant even amongst the heaping steeping dung of his mind, the aroma is pungent yet it awakens within something ardent.
It calls to life that which is undeniable.
The book is riddled with phrases worth quoting, memorizing tattooing abroad one’s flesh & soul.
He speaks from a world that rejected his spirit writhing in a grave.
His mind, so entrancing.
I will be rereading this over & over, delving again & again into this chaos.
As usual, I have an earlier edition of this w/ a different cover - before ISBNs. Artaud, you difficult human being you. Thank goodness, you existed. I wish you'd been happy, I wish I were happy, but I DON'T WISH YOU'D BEEN LIKE MOST OF THE MORONS IN THE WORLD. No degree of happiness is worth that fate. You gave a hard look at life & you let it fuck you up. You burned, you lived, you died, & you left a legacy well worth studying.
Great book in terms of straight forwardness of the writing and poetry, also very good curated and edited.
The "Van Gogh, The Man Suicided by the Society" was probably the best part of the book, that got me very interested to start reading the whole thing and buy it.
(I was also stuck on a 12-hour flight with this book, so there was no escape to reading anything else) But after reading the other parts of the book I understood why he wrote that part, and made me less interested in it.
Artaud's repertoire is a massive shock against the electro-shock, a powerful yearning to be utterly understood, but on the author's own terms. It is a deep howl against everything he loathed. It is also, in a 20th-21st century literary world full of folks expressing sympathy and affinity with the insane, a painful yet wonderful insider's perspective into a mind tortured by too much lucidity.
I think this is a sturdy selection, esp. as so many of the other Artaud collections I like seem to be out of print. Maddening, fascinating, often raving. Why is it that Artaud's work clings and haunts you?
Poetic, hallucinatory discussions of art, madness, identity.
Max's favorite essay of Artaud's (the character from "If So Carried By The Wind, Become The Wind") was "Van Gogh: The Artist Suicided By Society," and it was one of the longer works in the anthology, and certainly one of the most lucidly vitriolic attacks towards psychology and bourgeois culture that I've ever read but there's a lot in this book, and that's the understatement of the day.
Fabulous book, especially the critical writing. Not the best place to go for poetry, but not bad. Much of this book was translated by David Rattray, who nails Artaud's intensity of voice. Also a lot of Jack Hirschman's translations, which are a bit too beat for my tastes. In any case, it is a wild read! Artaud really goes all out.
This is the first classic anthology put together by Poet Jack Hirschman on Artaud's writings and criticisms. Truly one of the greats of the theater - and well, the arts. Artaud was a haunted man and his writings have that desperate aspect to his mental health and his unique way of looking at the world. Truly great.
This book contains a mixture of the best writing I have ever read and incomprehensible nonsense.
Artaud himself said there is a genius in every mad man, and he cycles through these throughout the book, though the latter half is mostly mad man.
I'm pretty sure Artaud was insane but if you look at some really method acting vis-a-vis surreal writing, it's pretty interesting stuff.
On Suicide is one of the best things i've ever read, his letter to Lautreamont was good, his van gogh piece is exquisite, and the last piece that I suppose is his epitaph is really good as well.
Some of the best I've read
You find that you know almost nothing about him in the way that you know about almost anyone else...But that you know so much about him in a way that you know no one else.I choose to think that is his intention. Revelations of the inward being opened up
For any reader of Post modern philosophy or Dada/surrealist art, this is a must read.Kind of like a lou Reed/Dee Dee Ramone prophet of disorder.
Worth it for the Tarahumara Indian section alone, this edition of shorter works also includes classics like his justification for the legalization of Opium and the end to stigmatization of addicts, plus lots of brilliant and typically unusual pieces. Also, and this is really important, has selections from "Theater and its Double", which introduces the idea of the "Theater of Cruelty", which is an interesting subject in and of itself. Truth be told I haven't read it from cover to cover but it's not something I'm currently working on, and so isn't really on my "currently reading" list.
Artaud's aggressive and vivid language is actually less interesting to me than his ideas, which center around developing a new and healthier spirituality. He has a totally different conception of the body, sexuality, and how religion should and does function than anyone who came before him. Also a great and more artistic predecessor to Deleuze and Guatarri.
Brilliant!! A book to read over and over again. Deeply moving. A fascinating view of the mind in a world of persecution and fear. Note the lovely and immobilizing 'Van Gough,Suicided By Society'.
Artaud, more than any other writer I've read, illustrates with his writing, how close certain types of mental illness, where there is very expressive artistic theorizing speech, is, to what passes for rational thought in the authoritarian who commits mass murder and war, and by extention, the masses that believe in those actions.
Reading Artaud, I have a sense of what his mind could have been without the illness.
He is not an artist because of his illness, like many who fetishize his illness mistakenly believe, he is an artist who is ill.
The same people fetishize artists who are addicts.
Unrivalled in modern literature and I enjoyed it so much that his became the backbone for my novel The Narcissist, about a student of Artaud's work who mysteriously disappears, and how her lover goes on a quest to find her, even after she is taken for dead, convinced that the secret of her vanishing lies in the writings of Artaud.
Overall a big influence on me and my development as a writer and artist and one should also see Terry Allen's art show "Ghost Ship Rodez", which I did in LA in a gallery, as it helps bring to life some of the themes in his work.
i purchased this copy for 9.71 at a downtown bookstore.
I saw the City Lights logo first, then I read the back and who this Artaud guy is.
This guy is fascinating.
Granted it is a fascinating read, sometimes frustrating, sometimes insightful.
The way his images and ideas jump is a form of hilarity, and i found myself uncertain if he meant to be so funny, or if humor itself has changed overtime and NOW it's considered funny.
The piece on Van Gogh was worth the purchase alone.
I also found his ideas on reality and consciousness to be intriguing.
Even dreams are reality?
After reading this book (including eye-reads of the early black and white edition's many elevated to deranged photo's of Artaud) the early letters of Rimbaud made clear sense that the path in life to pursue was derangement of the senses.
The pain that takes place in Artaud's sentences are to my mind, still the final word of "poetry." They exist in a time span that few if any have the guts to live, or even remotely begin exploring.
If you truly enter here, as lifestyle, you enter a danger far beyond the now romanticized danger of the ghetto streets.
I'd love to see a thug enter this horror once, and have the guts to enter again.
A very strange effect accompanies the reader of this book. As Artaud descends into madness, his linguistic faculty improves greatly. The result is that as his ideas become more obscure, they also begin to make more sense. The reader is carried along with Artaud's fantastic imagination and comes to see it as more relatable than reality. This may be clever editing, or it may be that there is truth to Artaud's madness.
Artaud's scream vibrates throughout his urgent lines. I myself almost threw the book aside, the first one third of it leaving me dry - but, having persevered into his later writing, I am able to write the first sentence in this paragraph with sincerity and joy - the joy of having been squeezed in the anxious fist of a writer who dislocates you from the humdrum routine in which we are all stuck, which goes unnoticed - the nooks and crannies of the accepted, smashed by a bloodshot eye.
I first picked up this anthology 20 years ago. I found it to be unreadable then and it seems to be just as unreadable to me now. The only coherent pieces in this cacophony of blasphemy and obscenities are "Van Gogh: The Man Suicided by Society" and the alchemical "Theatre and Science". It would take me many lifetimes to make sense of his nonsense, so I won't even bother. I'll leave this to others who are better suited to the task.
writings on: suicide comtemplation, the sickness of the social institution, the secrets hidden from it, the deepest recesses of the mind, the madness that comes of such "sanity," artaud is the epitome of the madman society persecutes.
Bought this one at the Henry Miller Memorial Library in Big Sur, which is actually a log cabin in the woods off of CA-1. I enjoy reading Artaud, king of surrealism, and every once in a while I pick this one up and read a few pages. Always illuminating.
for all true poetry is cruel
vicious little book.
just be ready for him, because he is surely ready for you... a great intro to the genius
Come on, you hungry readers: http://www.examiner.com/examiner/x-83...
