https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2326976.Literature_and_Cinematography
Remember (it's important) that this was even before Battleship Potemkin (1925) a film which would reverse some of Shklovsky's reservations about the cinema, and no doubt also tend to radically change some of his claims here.
Because Shklovsky was not a crank, though, he comes across as being open to those possibilities, even while condemning them as a false path for literature.Film is not motion (it is a series of still images), but the invention of or suspension of disbelief in motion.
So maybe Shklovsky wasn't against the idea of montage so much as against the idea of "losing the plot," the idea of the idea-less novel, something that would be divorced from its own material.
In fact, he says pure movement can never be represented in film.At the same time, he's using a formal analysis of literature, in which the formal constraints of language govern what can and cannot be made into literature: "Literature is made of words and comes into being employing the laws of the word." This happens at every level in the work, and in each case the result is definitive: "the fate of the hero and the division of a work into chapters are phenomena of the same order." For film and literature, in this analysis, there's a basic unit structure--the image, the phoneme--that governs what you can put together.
This is a formal problem.The book ends up being very basic.
Form of literature cannot be reproduced in film.
The two types of form in lit - parallelism and the riddle.
Parallelism - resonant narrative lines or figures that find their meaning in contrast.
The interruption as key figure in a narrative line.
It is part of the formal nature of film (as broken instants), but not that of literature (Bergsonian duree).This is a great antidote to the narrative-heavy nature of publishing out there.
Shklovsky treats the notion that one should show and not tell as strictly a matter of film, which implies in the 21st C.
One of the more interesting philosophical books I've read on filmmaking.
It's a very short read and I'd be quite interested to read more of Shklovskii's work, as I have a feeling this book is just the tip of the iceberg.It's a little difficult to apply this work (written in the 20's) to filmmaking now, as many limitations that he has describes as being inherent to cinematography's nature have since been overcome.
But, in a historical context, it describes a certain kind of unease with the rise of filmmaking and the fear for the livelihood of literature and theater in the face of a newborn artform.
Quite interesting.
Interesting to reach such an early theoretical consideration of the cinema, before even sound had been introduced, Shklovsky even hypothesizes (hopefully) that cinema would be dead within one hundred years... He writes with equal parts pessimism and fascination for the cinema, writing about its structural differences from the novel (particularly in terms of temporality). More than a little archaic at this point, it is nonetheless important to read not only for its historic value, but that also Shlovsky's method, if not his thoughts themselves, can still be use today.
Not what I expected at all, but some profound insights and interesting ideas."Perhaps mankind got hold of reason too soon."
A wisp of a book, but with great depth, fantastic insight!
