https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80273.The_Difficulty_of_Being
Imagine for a moment this anecdote, told in the book: Serge Diaghilev having challenged Cocteau in the Place de la Concorde late one night with "étonne-moi!" (amaze me), Cocteau, Picasso and Satie put together a little thing called "Parade",(**) which generated such a reaction from the audience that only the sight of Guillaume Apollinaire, with his head still heavily bandaged from a war wound and in uniform, dissuaded the ladies of the audience from stabbing out the authors' eyes with their hatpins!
In this linkhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WATQDq...you will find a little video about the scandal of "Parade" which includes a recording of Cocteau himself relating a few anecdotes in connection with it.
Quite interesting. Interesting enough to keep me going.I let out a few "hmm"s and "ahh"s, and then I reached the section titled: ‘On Beauty’What Cocteau had to say about beauty intrigued me.This, especially:  Beauty in art is a stratagem that she uses to immortalise herself. She travels, she pauses on her way, she fertilises human minds. Artists provide her with a vehicle. They do not know her. It is by them and outside them that she pursues her mission. Should they try to get hold of her by for
Interesting enough to keep me going.I let out a few "hmm"s and "ahh"s, and then I reached the section titled: ‘On Beauty’What Cocteau had to say about beauty intrigued me.This, especially: 
Should they try to get hold of her by force, they only produce an artifice.[...] Let no one think that beauty lacks a critical faculty nor that she is proof of one.
Without any doubt she would have been blunted had she adopted a style.
As she is, she is style itself, and I never tire of reading and re-reading the reports of her trial.
For I am still the victim of those unhealthy rites which make children obsessive, so that they arrange their plates in a certain way at meals and only step over certain grooves in the pavement."In the midst of work, here are these symptoms gripping me, forcing me to resist what is driving me, involving me in strange halting writing, preventing me from saying what I want to say."That is why my style often assumes an air of its own which I loathe, or else suddenly drops it.
The idea returns at top speed and I plunge into work."It is my passionate struggling against cramp that earns me a covering of legends, some more absurd than others.
In this book, Cocteau has put together small essays on various topics.
Some of these essays are very personal and honest in nature (like On Childhood).
These are lovely to read, specially because the writer seems to be speaking from the heart.
For example the ideas on lines, beauty, etc.
It is at this point that my interest began to wane off.In both kinds of essays however, Cocteau shows an uncanny capacity to observe the world around him and within him.
I have read some beautiful quotes in this book to which I will have to return.
Just lovely. I especially liked Jean Cocteau talking about hanging out with Stravinsky in the Alps, talking about the opera Faust, and how great it is, and how dreamy, and the grandson of the composer of the opera coming over and being like "I'm the grandson of the composer! He totally did dream those melodies! That's why they sound so dreamy!"No one name drops like Cocteau.
Whenever I have a "difficulty in being," I read this beauty by Cocteau, the philosopher king.
Jean Cocteau se desnuda en este libro, abriendo su interior en una serie de apartados, con los que resume su vida, tanto profesional como privada, haciendo una digresión del libro en un todo que se engloba. Poeta, dramaturgo, novelista, pintor y director de cine, plasma su pasión por todas sus facetas.“La muerte sabe hacerse olvidar y nos deja y nos deja creer que no vive en casa. Todos tenemos alejada a nuestra muerte y nos tranquilizamos con lo que nos inventamos, a saber, que es una figura
Poeta, dramaturgo, novelista, pintor y director de cine, plasma su pasión por todas sus facetas.“La muerte sabe hacerse olvidar y nos deja y nos deja creer que no vive en casa.
Todos tenemos alejada a nuestra muerte y nos tranquilizamos con lo que nos inventamos, a saber, que es una figura alegórica que no sale hasta el último acto.Experta en mimetismo, cuando más alejada parece estar de nosotros está incluso en nuestro gozo de vivir.
Pero la vida social nos salpica y nos hace caer en toda la basura.
j'ai eu beaucoup de mal à suivre le style de Cocteau et à comprendre où il voulait en venir parfois..
"Chi sa scrivere? Vuol dire combattere con l’inchiostro per cercare di farsi capire." (p. 71)"Siamo tutti malati, e non sappiamo leggere altro che i libri che trattano della nostra malattia." (p. 72)"Scrivere è un atto d'amore. Se non lo è non è che calligrafia." (p. 161)
This book is like sitting down across from Jean Cocteau and talking for him for hours.
Without leaving you, needless to say, since I am so closely merged with my ink that my pulse beats into it.
Long live the poet.’ This is the cry of his ink.
Changed into a book and crying out for help, for the spell to be broken and he reincarnated in the person of the reader.
You take this book out of your pocket.
And if you manage to read it without anything being able to distract you from my writing, little by little you will feel that I inhabit you and you will resurrect me."and sometimes, so did Jean Cocteau.
The Difficulty of Being, ended up being more interesting than I thought it would be.
A highly quotable book throughout and there were many times lots of tid-bits of worthy wisdom in a few words that I wanted to collect in some kind of quote scrapbook.
Usually, in this kind of work there are more interesting sections than others.
At times, I lost footing of what he was writing about and found it difficult to find what direction he was taking his thoughts.
Cocteau’s theory of art is expressive—his emphasis is on the producer of art, and not the consumer (in general, he asserts that one reads oneself when one reads—i.e., one sees oneself reflected in the art one beholds). In some instances, Cocteau interprets beauty as a function of Nature; in others he traces it to the individual personality of the artist.The book has self-conscious moments, with Cocteau addressing the reader and making direct reference to writing the book that the reader is in the process of reading.
Spent far too much time trudging through this pretentious twaddle, hoping there would be some redemption towards the end.Rare glimmers of 'real insight', but for the most part a wandering torment of verbal procrastination; a sponge bath of name dropping and egotism.I'd vote 1 star in that frustrated Goodreads non-expert manner that many do, but I am aware that between the trees lies the shrubbery of genuine profundity—I was probably just too impatient to search it out.
Probably would have found this deep and philosophical if I read it awash with absinthe and cheese, but just found it very disjointed; like one long non-sequitur. Perhaps if I'd read more of his stuff before I'd have got more out of it.
I have not read this book record yet but I've been turning chapters in Cocteau by Francis Steegmuller for years, Cocteau was the spark for most of the artists in all facets of endeavour and a very interesting man about the world. His biography is worth the read.
A trifle wordy and name-drop heavy, but also intriguing and beautifully written. I especially loved "On Death" and "On Beauty". Definitely something to quote and re-read.
I feel this book will accompany me throught my life
The Difficulty of Being rhymes with Difficulty of Reading, this book needs to be read and re-read.
Re-reading this gem of a book. I pick it up every several years and it always seems as fresh as the first time I read it.
The Difficulty Of Being by Jean Cocteau (1995)
That youth progresses by injustice, is justice. For soon enough comes the age of looking back. One returns and can then enjoy what one strode over or trampled underfoot on one's way.
I'd give this 3.5 stars if I could.
quite captivating thus far. if he wasn't cocteau, i'd think the whole thing rather narcissistic and self-indulgent.
