https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/193591.Major_Trends_in_Jewish_Mysticism
Scholem, who defines mysticism as a religious practice which emphasizes the direct experience with God through ecstatic prayer rather than the structured study of religious texts, considers Rabbinic Judaism, which stresses instead the Talmudic study of the Torah, to be the only legitimate form of Judaism.
The consequences have been at times disastrous.Scholem's thesis is that the mysticism that followed the foundation of Rabbinic Judaism was at first a relatively inoffensive vehicle for enthusiastic religious practices but then started to produce heresies that became progressively greater until there was a great explosion of apostasy in the 18th century during which one group was promoting conversion to Islamand a second group conversion to Roman Catholicism.In Scholem's view the key tenets of Rabbinic Judaism which were attacked by the mystic movements were:1.
I found this book at Lorain Library. I had to give them my credit card in order to check it out. I read it at Lakeview Beach while my 6 kids played in the water. This is why I went to Oberlin, learned to read Hebrew and majored in Judaic-Near Eastern Studies. Who knew?
Le tout se présente comme une vue d’ensemble philosophiquement très compréhensive et brillante des textes mystiques juifs, mais demeurant toujours extérieure à son actualité authentique, c’est-à-dire à l’état mystique comme tel puisque Scholem n’est pas un mystique.
Aussi, c’est en tant que concentration historique de la facticité juive que Scholem comprend et expose leur mysticisme, sorte de moyen économique, comparé à l’histoire générale, d’aller à l’essence des choses en passant par le point où on la trouve sous la concentration la plus dense.Il me semble, en effet, que Scholem propose de voir le mysticisme juif comme mécanisme collectif, se manifestant dans une part plus ou moins élargie de son élite, qui sublime sa réalité en expérience mystique.
Additionally, there was a lot of history that just seemed irrelevant to my desire to learn the ideas behind Kaballah.
That isn't to fault Scholem, but rather to say I was just unable to gain what I had hoped.That said, the chapter on Sabbatianism was incredible, describing the type of Kabbalah that I know and want to pursue even more.
Scholem seem to make the claim that Sabbatianism is flat-out a heretical, anarchistic sect of Judiasm, which –– no surprise –– other more traditional schools tried to suppress.
This book is essential reading for anyone seriously interested in the mysticism of Judaism. Scholem is an impeccable scholar, yet writes in a very readable style."Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism" is one of the books in the primary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf and is read by all students of the Kabbalah.
It was Gnosticism, one of the last great manifestations of mythology in religious thought, and definitely conceived in the struggle against Judaism as the conqueror of mythology, which lent figures of speech to the Jewish mystic.The importance of this paradox can hardly be exaggerated; it must be kept in mind that the whole meaning and purpose of those ancient myths and metaphors whose remainders the editors of the book Bahir, and therefore the whole Kabbalah, inherited from the Gnostics, was simply the subversion of a law which had, at one time, disturbed and broken the order of the mythical world.
Ma quando di nuovo, un'altra generazione dopo, Rabbì Yisra'èl di Rischin doveva anch'egli affrontare lo stesso compito, se ne stava seduto in una sedia d'oro, nel suo castello, e diceva: "Non possiamo fare il fuoco, non possiamo dire le preghiere, e non conosciamo più il luogo nel bosco: ma di tutto questo possiamo raccontare la storia." E - così prosegue il narratore - il suo racconto da solo aveva la stessa efficacia delle azioni degli altri tre.Si può dire, volendo, che questa breve profonda storia descriva simbolicamente la decadenza di un grande movimento; ma si potrebbe anche dire che essa rappresenti la trasformazione subita in questo movimento da tutti i valori.
De cada vez que o leio leva-me mais longe.
Como de forma admirável, o faz Gershom Scholem (1897-1982), especialista mundialmente reconhecido, que dedicou mais de sessenta anos da sua vida ao estudo aprofundamento deste tema.
E que, justamente, considerava este livro de importância crucial no conjunto dos seus estudos sobre a Cabala.
Seguindo os textos esotéricos antigos, como o Bahir e o Zohar, e outras fontes documentais originais, G.S. leva-nos numa viagem plena de erudição e maravilha pelos territórios onde o Trono de Deus e a Árvore de Vida, no seu simbolismo transcendente, enquadram a sabedoria judaica.
Pitu pitu. Te dwa słowa wystarczą żeby opisać to dziełko. Pseudonaukowy bełkot. Gdyby nie fakt, że na podstawie Szolema skonstruowano egzamin, kijem bym nie tknął.
On one level a straightforward history of Jewish Mysticism from the middle ages up until the advent of Hasidism in the eighteenth century.
On another level weird and confusing.
The history of the people involved is too brief, though fairly straightforward.
As a history of ideas, it is hard to follow, and the ideas themselves are for the most part irrelevant to me.
It can make it difficult to piece this together with his research in Kabbalah.
There is a recent MOOC on Kabbalah which I found very helpful in getting some of the terminology straight.
Good book, but it would have been nicer if someone smarter than Scholem had gotten involved in the Kabbalah.
A Triumph, Possibly a Miracle, of ScholarshipIf anyone could manage to give a clear exposition of the main ideas of Kabbalism, that person is Gershom Scholem.
There were times, while reading this book, that I was swimming (I.e., near drowning), particularly in the second lecture on the Zohar, but I always eventually found my footing again, thanks to GS; and the book as a whole is a marvel of clarity, that is, a marvelously clear presentation of an extremely complex, dense, and knotty material.
Amongst scholarly studies, a book like this one is one in a thousand, if not one in ten thousand, or more.
This isn't for the faint of heart, but for someone who doesn't mind somewhat inaccessible academic language and has a true interest in Jewish mysticism, this is a must read.
Scholem covers a thousand years of mysticism in several hundred pages, which makes it incredibly dense but also keeps it moving relatively quickly.
It's the kind of work that you read through once then come back and delve into the primary sources.One complaint: the romanization of Hebrew words is absolutely abysmal and often obscures words' meanings.
I am an observant Jew and even I was puzzled the first time I encountered relatively commonly used words like mitswoth (mitzvot)!
The problem here is there is a lot of stuff that seems to require background knowledge and is completely boring without it. Scholem spends a lot of time discussing who is the author of various works in history without giving the question any weight or providing any evidence. He just asserts.When he describes the various doctrines, the book gets much more interesting. It would have been better still if he connected the mysticism either to existing non-mystical practice or current Judaism, but . . . .
This was the textbook for my Jewish Mysticism book in college - it was extremely dense reading, with sentences spanning the length of a half page... that being said, it was amazingly informative. It covered many of the major trends in Jewish mysticism from the ancient Merkavah through the Zohar and Kabbalah into modern Hasidism. I don't know if there is another book out there that covers so much...
This book requires a lot of work but can operate as a keystone for operating many texts outside of the Jewish Tradition. It also challenged many of my paradigms of Judeo-Christian mysticism and Gnosticism.
An amazing historical recount of Jewish mysticism. From Maasei Merkavah to Kabbalah and Hassidism, this book is a great introduction to Jewish Mysticism for those who want to learn and understand the roots of everything.
A classic and very readable.
Book for people really interested in Jewish mysticism. Language and vocabulary is hard to understand without dictionary of Hebrew or jidish names of holidays, food, things and places.
Opus magnum and an crucial map for someone that wants to understand the history and ideas of jewish mysticism.
Absolutely essential.
ILL Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism (Paperback) by Gershom Scholem maybe I want to buy this one
Fascinating subject, the dryest, most unengaging book on the subject ever. Avoid. Read Through a Speculum that Shines instead to get a Jewish Mysticism fix.
Excellent and understandable essays, important especially for this novice...
