https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/75076.The_Boston_Strangler
I prefer my murders to be fictitious.
I can read about fictitious murders all day long but I feel a little squeamish when they're real.
If I didn't have a dog, I probably would have made sure the back door was locked a couple times.Since I spoiled the ending for myself by looking up the case on Wikipedia before opening the book, I eventually got kind of bored with it and started skimming but that was no fault of the book or the writing.While it didn't make me a true crime convert, I did enjoy The Boston Strangler.
Women were afraid to open their doors to anyone.
In one case, a woman opened her door without thinking and saw a strange man on her doorstep.
The man was selling encyclopedias.There were no clues, no evidence, for the most part, there were no signs of forced entry.
The women showed no signs of struggle.
The author takes the reader through the entire investigation from start to finish.
I did not live anywhere near Boston, but back then, the thought of a serial killer was absolutely horrifying.
They were desperate to stop this killer at any cost.The book is very well written.
There was no sign of forced entry, which meant every victim had willingly let their murderer into their little apartments.
By the time the police began to realize a serial killer was responsible, the pattern changed and a series of young women were killed, in the same manner.From 1962-1964, the city of Boston was terrorized by a silent killer who was able to commit murder with no trace.
It wasn't until 2013 that the police were able to verify with certainty that Albert DeSalvo was indeed the Boston Strangler, using DNA analysis.
Still, the cover of that musty paperback remained in my memory for 35 years.In my opinion, one quality of a good book is that it will recommend other books to the reader.
It noted Gerold Frank's The Boston Strangler as an authoritative book on the subject.
I searched on ebay and found that old book with the menacing eyes on the cover.
Fortunately, I obtained the 1967 hardcover through the inter-library loan system of my local public library.
A dull paht is the section describing the use of truth serums on suspects.As all good authors should, Gerold Frank recommends another book to the reader.
It will take four years for the authorities to unravel and capture the man behind the murders which had the signature marks of stranglings and sexual assaults.
Boston, the city where the crimes were taking place, became like a city created by a mad playwright for the theater of the absurd.
He started out as the 'measurement man' and metamorphosed to become a rapist and a murderer.
He raped close to two thousand women and killed thirteen more during his two year reign of terror as the 'Boston Strangler'.
Lee Bailey would find themselves working overtime trying to prove that he was the damned Boston Strangler.
However, the book was written in 1966, but the story of the Boston Strangler doesn't end there.
So, the book felt like a bit of a time warp for me.
Anything else I say would be about the case, and not the book itself.I do enjoy true crime books, so if that is what you are into, I suggest finding a more updated book on The Strangler, the case itself and all the methods they used to try to catch him, are fascinating!
The last sentence of this book is a lie: But no matter what direction is taken by the law and those who act in its behalf--determined to protect the rights of society, yet equally determined to protect the rights of the individual--the story of the Boston Stranglings has ended. Even when he wrote it in 1966, Frank must have known it was a lie. There were too many loose ends, too many contradictions. It wasn't until 2013 that forensic evidence was able to conclusively prove Albert DeSalvo killed
Fifty years, and the "story of the Boston Stranglings" arguably still isn't over.The essential problem with Albert DeSalvo and what I'm going to call the Single Strangler Theory is that the 13 murders are all over the map.
His only criterion was that the woman was home alone, and she let him in.DeSalvo doesn't fit the FBI's profile of a serial killer.
But that blatant lie right at the end makes me unwilling to trust him to be telling the truth--even though I think Albert DeSalvo really might be the Boston Strangler.
Instead of writing this primarily as a police procedural or from the point of view of the murderer, he broadens his scope to include the community response and the many collateral events that were associated with the crime.
In fact, to this day, there are those who doubt that there was only one Boston Strangler, or that the correct perpetrator was captured.Frank's research builds a strong case that the events were brought to a successful conclusion.
The coincidental events and the participation of two psychic investigators make the story even more intriguing.The murders were gruesome.
They have all read about the victims, the lewd sexual nature of the crime, of the shock at the type of women that have been chosen - decent, frumpish, matronly- the palpable fear is in the air.
They know his modus operandi, they all have read the theories of what he is dressed in usually, they ALL HAVE READ THE WARNINGS ON NOT OPENING UP THE DOOR TO STRANGERS.Women still opened up their doors to the Boston Strangler.
I was shocked not as much about the Boston Strangler, as about how easy all of this was for him.Very highly recommended read.
It is an older book on the subject of the "Boston Strangler", and was written prior to the actual trial and conviction of Albert DeSalvo.
The first portion of the book was dedicated to the actual murders, that occurred in the early 1960s, and the victims.
The part of the book that discussed the subjects who were put under the influence of the so-called 'truth serum' drug, Sodium Pentothal, I found interesting.
The last portion of the book was about the man who claimed to be the Boston Strangler, Albert DeSalvo.
This book was utterly fascinating and yet totally creeped me out. I liked that this book was written in 1966 not long after Desalvo was arrested. However, in the years since there has been doubt that Desalvo really was the Boston Strangler since he was never convicted -thus the crimes were never solved. In 1973 DeSalvo was killed in prison and in 2013 DeSalvo's body was exhumed for the second time in an attempt to match DNA. Crazy stuff!
Psychiatrists, profilers, people used to working on serial killings, all come up with a profile that doesn’t even closely resemble the man eventually charged with these murders.Then for the latter half, the book focuses on Albert DeSalvo, his confessions, the trial that confined him to stay in Bilgewater Hospital for the rest of his life.The book has a phenomenal wealth of information, now just from the victims, the alleged killer, the police forces, but also from psychis who were brought in to work on the case, regular people in Boston describing the fear that gripped the city, and more.
Now you can obviously always argue about how much authors can make their point by emphasizing/leaving out certain pieces of information but I think we can at least agree on the fact that a true crime book doesn't really need to give extensive detail on every single person who was a suspect and later turned out to be innocent and even less the life-stories of the bloody psychics who claimed they could give information on the murders.Now you might argue that the actual investigation was long and tedious and the book wanted to convey some of that...but if that was really the aim...it succeded too well.
The point that is exhaustively made by the author is how difficult it was to catch this guy. I don't think it was necessarily to spend over 100 pages walking the reader through every single false lead that the police chased. Certain aspects were interesting but you are forced through long pointless walks to get there. The bits about the psychics were interesting though if only for the fact that their readings were tracked down as leads by police at the time.
The Boston Strangler was such a prominent case at the time it was happening and the world heard about it.This novel written by Gerold Frank about horrible crimes committed by one man is told without gore and shock, but rather aims at giving only the truth about human nature. How sad that some of us humans can commit such heinous crimes.
Gripping but about 100 pages too long; the pages and pages of interviews with DeSalvo were terribly dull, retreading old ground unnecessarily. Additionally, amused by the concept of the Boston police believing in a genuine "homosexual hierarchy" in their city. The 1960s must have been bizarre.
This was the first true crime book that I ever read and the one that started my fascination with the genre.
I enjoyed this book greatly and it stands up well to re-reading. Imagine my surprise when I learned that most people who ought to know consider it to be fiction.
Gerold Frank tells the true story of The Boston Strangler. Between 1962-1964, the Boston Strangler, later identified as Albert DeSalvo, wreaked havoc in Boston. At the time, murder wasn't something the American People were used to and the brutality of the killings in Boston frightened not only Bostonian's, but everyone in America. Frank is able to capture each crime scene, the detectives working the case, and the life of DeSalvo.
Would have been much better without the detours into (minor spoiler) consulting with psychics to try to catch the killer - I thought that made the book much longer than it needed to be and detracted from an otherwise good story. A simple summary of the psychics' and cranks' involvement would have been sufficient.
It's getting 3 stars only for the fascinating details of how he so easily charmed his way into the women's apartments. The book would have been much better if the author would have streamlined the info. It was weighed down by so much minutia, I couldn't wait for it to end.
Wonderful bookI've read more recent books about the Strangler. They tend to think others were the killers. I'm glad I finally read this classic. After reading the book and watching the DiNatale video on Amazon, plus the DNA evidence, I think DeSalvo is the killer. I only wish the book had photos.
3-1/2 ⭐️
Reads like work of fiction. The details of the crimes were brutal. Very fascinating looking into the other likely suspects apart from the actual killer. A really good book.
In fact, if you google anything about Albert DeSalvo, most of the information is lifted from this book.
Hence, Frank's book is disappointing because it's easy to assume that a lot of information is being withheld from the public.
I divide the book into three parts: the crimes and the investigation, the ESP and the apprehension of prime suspects, and Albert DeSalvo.
Anyway, forget the rest of the books written about The Boston Strangler because they are basically secondary or tertiary sources and don't contribute anything but needless speculation.
I know I have to take a break from true crime sooner or later, but this kept getting recommended as a good example of the genre, and then I noticed a newly released ebook version from Open Road Integrated Media on Netgalley.
You learn the bulk of what happened during Albert DeSalvo's bizarre murder spree throughout the greater Boston area, some of his background, a little about the women who were his victims.
What I would've liked to read more about were the hundreds, maybe even thousands, of breaking and entering incidents he claimed he did, specifically why the women involved didn't report any information about him when the Strangler case became so notorious.
Se me cruzaron los cables y en vez de leer El estrangulador de Boston, leí Jack el Destripador.
Y no una vez, sino dos, tres y hasta cuatro veces.
O ni siquiera eso.Pese a todo, sí hay algo que me ha llamado mucho la atención y es la tendencia de la policía de Boston de aquellos años a tirar de individuos con métodos bastante alejados de la ciencia forense para resolver los crímenes.
Pero no pudieron, supieron o quisieron juzgarle por los asesinatos, sino que lo metieron en la cárcel por otros crímenes.
For instance; there is a story of woman who opened the door and found a man on the other side (he wasn’t the strangler) but she was so terrified that she had a heart attack and died.
What surprised me though was the fact that despite all the murders and the fear, women still kept opening their doors to strangers.
The ruse that the strangler used about maintenance worked each time.“It was not the stranglings that shook Boston so much; it was the abhorrent sexual aspect that summoned to mind in Bostonians deep lurking fears of Sodom and Gomorrah.” Gerold FrankI recommend this book to fans of police procedural and true crime.I received this book from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.You can read my full review here:https://ahavenforbooklovers.wordpress...
This book is great.
The book was very obviously written in the 60's.
The approach to how women are thought of and written about is almost comically old-fashioned.
A few developments happened after the book came out and I don't think that there is an updated version.
His body was also later exhumed and tested against DNA found on Mary Sullivan's body where it was proven within a 99.9% probability that, in that instance, he was the killer.
Definitely worth reading and also worth fact checking what happened later on in the story.
Despite Albert DeSalvo's confession, investigators questioned whether or not he was telling the truth.
His background and history did not fit what they assumed as the Strangler's profile.
Frank provides all the facts, including transcripts from interviews with DeSalvo, who was never actually convicted of the 13 murders.
While reading his confessions and descriptions of what he did, I couldn't help thinking of Jeckyl & Hyde: paranoid schizophrenia.
"Why did I do those things?" There is a new book out as a follow-up that used DNA in an attempt to determine whether or not DeSalvo truly was the Strangler.
