https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/769443.Selling_the_Invisible
[Learn how to create executive summaries, tables of contents, hyper-links, etc.--don't assume that everyone knows your value and is willing to spend time digging into your work.]2) Quality, speed, and price are *not* in competition, they must be offered simulaneously and at full value.3) What is your promise or value proposition?
Focus on being the first choice every time.6) Execute with passion--and if you are a super-geek or nerd that does not have a high social IQ, form a partnership with a super-popular person and put them in front.
I really liked the point that you don’t win people with service quality, but with the merchandising of your service quality.I can’t wait to use this book’s lessons in marketing and selling services for my web design company, OptimWise, which sells web design, site maintenance, and consulting services.I read this because it was recommended on BizCraft Episode 6 – All about pricing.
What I enjoyed most about this book was the idea that services should be viewed as something to sell, just like a product.
I found I wanted to hand it to several local businesses and even some larger corporations, because if more people behaved like this, we'd all enjoy our business interactions so much more.My only complaint is that in business terms, it's been awhile since it's been written.
So I'll add that this book is very accessible for a layman.
That is where your marketing must start: with a clear understanding of that worried soul." Recognizing how the potential client who walks into my office must feel -- they want to remember the most amazing day of their lives and are willing to spend thousands of dollars to do so but there are no guarantees -- really humbles me and makes me want to do whatever I can to help eliminate their fears and uncertainty.
Blogging is so powerful because it helps form a connection with potential clients that can grow trust within their hearts and eliminate the fears and uncertainty they are faced with when hiring a wedding photographer.
Don't charge by the hour. Charge by the years. My first impression of the book? If there is a book that says the word "service" couple million times, it's "Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing". At one point it started to be so ridiculous that I was beyond annoyed – I was certain that English language simply must have other words that could be suitably used instead of "service". Thesaurus gives me 32 synonyms and not all of them are equivalent but I felt like Mr. Beckman was
If there is a book that says the word "service" couple million times, it's "Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing".
There's little point in killing an idea by saying it might fail.
The chapters / subchapters are usually very short and try to get to the point very fast.
Secondly, as you may have figured out already, "Selling the Invisible" tries to be the kind of book that gives out short pointers to people who are already in the business and try to think outside the box.
Are they really that universal?Overall, I hope there's a better book on marketing / selling out there.
I've read this thing probably 5 times. As is often the case though you need to re-read these things from time to time. It's one of the first marketing books I read that specifically addresses the challenges of a 'service' business. Marketing a service is a unique challenge given the intangible nature of what you're dealing with. This is a quick read, and while not as entertaining as other authors it Beckwith does impart some important tips and ideas.
Loy Machedo’s Book Review – Selling the Invisible by Harry BeckwithHarry Beckwith is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate from Standford University, the author of books which have sold over 1.2 Million Copies in 24 languages and among the World’s Five Best Speakers on Sales and Marketing as per a 2009 Poll of 13,000. Among the books he has authored, • Selling the Invisible: A Field Guide to Modern Marketing• You, Inc.: The Art of Selling Yourself • What Clients Love: A Field Guide to Growing Your Business
Loy Machedo’s Book Review – Selling the Invisible by Harry BeckwithHarry Beckwith is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate from Standford University, the author of books which have sold over 1.2 Million Copies in 24 languages and among the World’s Five Best Speakers on Sales and Marketing as per a 2009 Poll of 13,000.
2.	"In most professional services, you are not really selling expertise - because your expertise is assumed, and because your prospect cannot intelligently evaluate your expertise anyway.
4 starts because I wanted more but this book is designed to deliver sound bites and is rather good one.Straight to the point with the confidence of an expert reminds old and new in service business the basics of marketing.
Продавать надо уметь. И в первую очередь - себя :)Много интересных фишечек, которые можно спроецировать и применить в чем угодно.
This book is most interesting in the world
It can’t hurt, and it will force you to improve.Often what a service provider is good isn’t actually useful for customer (architects like complex, winded buildings that aren’t actually convenient).
Take small steps to narrow gap between your position and position statement (customers will not believe it if you try big step)Take a position (maybe extreme or new) that repositions your competitors (as dull, uninspired, too corporate, etc) then move back toward the middle (alleviating customer’s fears) to cinch the sale A clear focus will better allow your customers and employees to spread the word, because they know what makes you specialWhen setting price, you want about 20% of prospects to be resistant to it.
This is probably the easiest book I've ever read.
The chapters are divided into sections that are incredibly small, which makes it a breeze to get through.
But I think that's also its biggest weakness: you feel like you're being hit with so much that there's no way you could take it all in.
And so no matter what you do take from this book, you feel as though it's not enough.
It's a good example of how marketing, due to human behavior, is not just common sense.
Overall, this is a good book to introduce someone to marketing.
Selling something invisible like services are very different from selling a physical product.This book illustrated from the branding, marketing and selling points of view on how a service product should be positioned and sell it in the end.A simple great reference book which i enjoy reading.
Work in marketing? Read this book. Work in customer service? Read this book. Work in sales? Read this book. Starting your own business? Read this book! (Borrowed a copy from our CEO, read it cover to cover, then bought a copy for myself.)
Clients are experts at knowing if they feel valued.In most professional services, you are not really selling expertise - because your expertise is assumed, and because your prospect cannot intelligently evaluate your expertise anyway.
And in most cases, that is where you need the most work.Before you try to satisfy "the client", understand and satisfy the person.In the service industry technology creates the adapter's edge.
You can accomplish just as much by convincing a prospect that your service is "positively good".It is far better to say too little than too much.People will trust their eyes far before they will ever trust your words Look at your business card.
The book is about service marketing and its main ideas are as follow :• Fix your service first (impress customers). • Ask for feedback from your customers (third-party preferred) and improve accordingly.• Your first level to highest level employees are your marketers invest in their trainings .• Your marketing strategy is from employees to branding; every part is included. It gave real examples on services from companies such as FedEx, American Express, Disney and McDonald's. In addition , the b
The book is about service marketing and its main ideas are as follow :•	Fix your service first (impress customers).
In addition , the book has also covered some concepts in marketing research , planning , pricing , communication and positioning .
Also , the book talked about a lot of concepts and how important they are to the business , but didn't elaborate on how it can be achieved .
For example , it encouraged to follow Disney's footsteps but didn't touch on how Disney achieved such a level of service quality .
9)In most professional services, you are not really selling expertise - because your expertise is assumed, and because your prospect cannot intelligently evaluate your expertise anyway.
Instead you are selling a relationship.
(p.45)The best thing you can do for a prospect is eliminate their fear.
If you price in the middle, what you are saying is "We're not the best, and neither is our price, but both our service and our price are pretty good." Not a very compelling message.
(p.134)Say one thing.
171)After you say one thing, repeat it again and again.
Selling the Invisible is one of those books that makes you think about the basic things you encounter every day and for that it is invaluable.
There are many truths behind the facade of sales and marketing that we see and yet don't register them.
Will you make an informed or intuitive decision?
I understand that repetition makes you register and understand, but personally I could do without.
Overall a great book, if it does not make you reflect on your own or your business' strategies and decisions you have not read it properly.
I actually read this book when it was first published in the 90s and have used it as a field training book since then.
This recent purchase was for one of my client's personnel.
I purchased a copy for the leaders of the firm, administrative staff, operational staff, and sales staff.
They are in a very sensitive service industry and this is always the book I start with in establishing what the owner really wants his firm to be recognized as opposed to his competitors.This book along with The Experience Economy are musts in every owners arsenal when establishing a proper culture.
It is an easy book to read and it has large amount of advices for service marketing. I think it is extremely useful for those who are working in services industry. I would suggest adding more real life examples to clarify some concepts to make them easier for the reader to understand and link them to the examples. I will be keeping this book for my reference and future use. Again, I highly recommend this book to anyone involved in services industry
Прикольно написанная книга. Как всегда в книгах про бизнес, много "воды". Но есть несколько базовых мыслей, которые я запишу сюда, чтобы запомнить:- опросы работают;- фокус-группы не работают. Потому что в фокус-группе самый умный чел сидит и отмалчивается, т.к. скучает;- высокий уровень сервиса может быть у любой компании. Раз уж люди, работающие в McDonald's могут, значит и вы сможете;- оргазм от услуги короче, чем оргазм от товара)
When I was in university, most of the marketing books were about products, not services. This is one of the good books that I would recommend, especially for startups.For new marketers, this book brings you lot of useful information. For the company owners, you will get ideas to promote your services in this digital world. For people like me, self-learning by doing business, it would very beneficial too, when it summarizes and reminds me what I might forget.
For basic and enduring marketing principles with a focus on marketing services, this is a great book. I love how each section is relatively short and has a recap sentence at the end which sums up the section. Lots of examples and stories are used which stop it from being dry and too theoretical. Instructive, informative and enjoyable reading.
Книга была мне рекомендована преподавателем в сфере бизнес-обучения как одна из лучших в сфере маркетинга услуг. Не спорю, в ней есть полезные мысли и хорошие советы. Но катастрофически мало теории. Вдобавок, очень много того, что называется банально здравым смыслом. В итоге, книга мне скорее не понравилась, по мере продвижения к концу, читать ее становилось всё более скучно.
Not the best business book I’ve read but there are some good tips, as evidenced by my sticky notes. The book is short little sections, not chapters, broken up by topic. A bit unusual. It wasn’t dry but it wasn’t super interesting either. Thankfully it wasn’t too long. This all sounds negative but it was more just neutral. Not excellent but not bad either.
At the time, was one of the two the best business books I had ever read...have not re-read it but at the time, it seemed to have content worth referring to. Ordered extra copies and gave to friends, still have 2 copies about 4 feet from me as I type this.
Можно было, наверное, и 4 звезды поставить – ведь в целом материал неплох – но рука не поднялась почему-то. Вода – есть. Очевидностей – тоже много. В общем, кто занимается сферой услуг, тем стоит пробежаться по этой книге.
MUST-READ book almost for everyone! Doesn't matter if you're a marketer, enterpreneur, salesman, service manager or XYZ.You should read this book. It can change the way you think, talk, see, act, sell, market and maybe even more.
Important lessons to take into consideration when marketing services.
Typical marketing book, offers a lot of useful advices but nothing spectacular.
