https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23594012-she-shall-have-murder
She is a legal secretary with a secret - she has a man in her life who is, unfortunately still married (albeit separated and in the throes of divorce) - most unacceptable in the 1940's, the period in which the book is set.Dagobert does not have a job; in fact he seems to be quite allergic to work.
His latest idea is that Jane should write a murder mystery.
Dagobert feels sure it is murder (and there is no shortage of suspects) and sets out, with Jane, to prove it.A lovely, intriguing, cozy murder mystery.
Jane Hamish works at a law office, and thinks she'll write a mystery with that as a setting, encouraged by her boyfriend, Dagobert Brown. When one of the firm's clients dies, Dagobert--in the face of the evidence--insists that she was murdered. Then he discovers something that seems to point to one of the employees of Jane's firm. Post-war London setting includes rationing and shortages.
I was pleasantly surprised by this 1940s British cozy -- the author maintained the 'cozy' style (nonprofessional detective) without becoming too caught up in romance (a common flaw in many cozies). I felt the balance between Jane & Dagobert's personal life and the mystery was just right. Ames also managed to have several plausible motives within a fairly restricted circle of suspects.
Originally published on my blog here in February 2001.Delano Ames' series of detective novels featuring Dagobert Brown has been one I have enjoyed for many years, though they are quite difficult to find and this is only the fourth I have read.
She Shall Have Murder is the very first one, and it sets the tone for the whole series, if perhaps in a slightly more self-conscious manner than the later novels.Jane Hamish, Dagobert's girlfriend, works at solicitors Playfair and Son, and has begun a novel which is a thriller set at her workplace in which one of the clients is murdered.
I love classic murder mysteries, however until I read this book, I had never heard of Delano Ames.
I was also a little surprised that this book was originally written at just after the end of World War II.
As far as the murderer goes, well, I suspected him on and off as I read the story.
I was never really sure if I was on the right track with him, which is part of the fun of reading a mystery such as this one.
And so when it came down to it, I was surprised that I was occasionally correct in assuming that the murderer was who I suspected from time to time.
Miss Jane Hamish is a legal clerk in the offices of Playfair and Son, solicitors.
His latest is detection, and he tells Jane to write a mystery novel.
Soon a lonely spinster who frequents the Playfair offices is found dead and Dagobert is the only person who realises her death is not accidental.
Dagobert begins sleuthing in earnest, ably accompanied by Jane.The novel was first published in 1948 and is set against the background of post war London.
The social settings are very interesting with annotations in the Manor Minor Press edition providing information about some of the contemporary references.
Manor Minor Press is resurrecting the Jane and Dagobert Brown mysteries. Delano Ames' comic series, originally published between 1948 and 1959, made a little money in its time but has mostly been forgotten. After reading the first book in the series, She Shall Have Murder, in a few hours packed with much laughter and marveling at Ames' technique, I wonder just how the remarkable amateur detectives managed to vanish...Read the rest of my review at A Bookish Type. I received a free copy of this book from NetGalley for review consideration.
Favorite quote: "There is nothing which so effectively revives one’s interest in a group of all-too-familiar people as the belief that one of them is a murderer."Traditional mystery includes murder among the people who frequent a post-war London law office. Interesting, distinctive characters and amusing writing style. Authors seemed to write in a more clever style back then. Witty observations and clever turns of phrases make for a fun read. Small group of suspects gathered at the end for reveal. Will definitely read others in this series.
I so enjoyed this book: the repartee, the narrator's view of her co-workers, her boy friend's extremely laid back life style, life in post-war London. The mystery was well done: within a small set of suspects suspicion passes from one to another as more facts are uncovered (the boy friend turns out to be surprisingly good at his new hobby), and the solution hold together very well. I'm looking forward to continuing the series and hope the publisher, Manor Minor Press, reprints them.
I'm a sucker for old mysteries from the Golden Age, and this one doesn't disappoint. Strong women characters, of course, are a must. And once I read one book by an author I like, naturally I have to read 'em all. Then, disappoint when I'm done because there are NO MORE!But to the book. Love Dagobert and adore Jane. A clever little mystery from the good old days.
I believe this is supposed to be a British take on the Nick and Nora type mystery. Unfortunately, either something was lost in the translation, or the author just plain didn't understand it. The murder method and discovery were interesting, but nothing else.
A fun entertainingly written mystery. Full review at classicmystery.wordpress.com
Synopsis: Dagobert's latest hobby is getting Jane to write a mystery. When spinster Mrs. Robjohn dies, he's sure it's murder.
Dagobert, in many ways, really is a silly ass, and the exigencies of life in post-WWII Britain do not deal kindly with him.
He's lucky to have Jane, who, though just as gently reared, is much more adapted to modern life and the necessity of earning one's living.Another Golden Age writer this book calls to mind is Patricia Wentworth.
Although Jane and Dagobert are as unlike Miss Silver as possible, one of the elements of the Miss Silver books was that any romance should end happily unless one of the parties was an obvious cad.
Said victim is Mrs. Robjohn, the least favorite client of the firm, thanks to her frequent calls, letters and visits and unwavering paranoid belief that the mysterious "they" are out to get her.SHE SHALL HAVE MURDER was labeled as "Detection with Wit" when first published in 1948, an apt description of the characters of Jane, always the common-sense, down-to-earth narrator, and her other half Dagobert, whose eccentricities and passing fads often leave Jane alternatively delighted and driven to despair ("Dagobert is my hero, but he persistently refuses to behave like one.") One of Dagobert's primary pursuits is amateur sleuthing that he puts to good use as he resorts to disguises, charm and insightful detection as he tries to prove Mrs. Robjohn was murdered.Jane makes a delightful narrator, as in this bit about her thoughts on her potential novel-writing career at the start of the story: "On the other hand, thrillers have nowadays become an accepted art-form; bishops and minor poets read practically nothing else, and the New Statesman reviews them....The beginning of a book is always the tricky part.
I got She Shall Have Murder as a Goodreads Giveaway, a slightly different giveaway as it was originally published in 1948 and the author himself passed away a long time ago.I love my cozy mystery books every now and then, I love the light entertainment and brainwork.
Somehow She Shall Have Murder might have been just a tad too light for me though.
But even though the mystery didn't go anywhere at times it was still well worth a read for when you're looking to turn your worrying brain off for a bit and concentrate on some light thinking completely different from your real life.
I very much enjoyed reading this amateur sleuth mystery from the Golden Age of British mysteries.
Besides the writing, I particularly enjoyed Jane, the narrator's, views of writing a mystery book, her office colleagues, and her boyfriend's life-style, although he could sometimes be a little irritating.
Set in post-war Britain, references to rationing,clothing, feeding gasmeters, amusements and entertainers of the period were true to the period.
Written with wit and the clever style of the 1950s amateur sleuth mysteries, this was a most enjoyable and entertaining read.
And I liked well enough to know that I want more of Dagobert (!) and Jane.from the Book Description: Dagobert Brown’s always got a new hobby.
But his latest hobby is murder—or at least, the murder mystery he wants Jane Hamish to write.
“Dagobert is my hero,” she says, “but he persistently refuses to act like one.” I have to admit that this book surprised me with its humor and modern edge, and I'm eager to read more of this amateur detective series!
This is a British mystery written in 1949 - my book has different cover art. After sitting for a year on my bookshelf, I finally read it and it was wonderful! I had a little trouble with Dagobert's name at first but it grew on me, as did his rather slightly ne'er-do-well, keep-one-guessing type of personality. I loved the ending confrontation in Mr. Playfair's (another interesting name for the context) office with all the "suspects". A lovely vintage golden oldie!
It is fun to revisit this view of London, a contemporary look from 1949.When I read this 22 years ago, I didn't realize what a loose cannon Dagobert is. Jane never knows what he is going to do next, and for a staid office manager, that is disconcerting.
YAY to Rue Morgue for bringing back these smart, sassy mysteries which originally appeared in the 1950s. Wish they had started with the LAST books in the series -- nearly impossible to find -- but hopefully they will get to those titles soon.
Dated, of course, but still engaging, and very witty--I loved the characters of Jane and her beau, Dagobert. I had to get this via interlibrary loan, but it was worth it. Think I'll look for more by Ames.
Rue Morgue publishes classic fun mysteries. Very enjoyable read. Reminds me of Nick and Nora Charles (The Thin Man) movies.
First in the Jane Hamish and Dagobert Brown mystery series. Light, enjoyable story, a bit of a period piece, set in 1940's London. A fun read.
I liked this one, but I didn't absolutely love it. I would read more by this author if I could get it, but it looks like it would be hard to find.
