https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126710.Mountolive
Blown away. I'm going to have to let my brain settle down for a day or so to even attempt a review.
Of course, life can become a little predictable when you run your own show, hence the need for an occasional skirmish to raise your body temperature.Skirmish and IntrigueI mention this background, because unexpectedly "Mountolive" thrust me back into this world of political and diplomatic intrigue, not to mention espionage.The first two volumes of the Quartet fascinated me as a metaphysical investigation of love and narrative perspective.
This is probably the most autobiographical of the novels and Mountolive has many elements taken form Durrell himself.At this point you realise who little Darley knew in the first novel and how much more complex were the ebbs and floes going on around him.
Mountolive has been little in evidence in the first two novels, but here we chart his relationship with Nessim’s mother and move to the timeline of the other novels with a fascinating look at the character of Pursewarden.The prose is as lush and tangled as ever and the descriptions have their usual power.

"Quando se ama sabe-se que o amor é um pedinte, um pedinte sem amor-próprio; e os gostos da simples piedade humana podem consolar na ausência do amor, disfarçando-se numa felicidade imaginária." Alexandria...
What I said in my comment... about the absence of plot in Durrell, is quite wrong. With Mountolive, I can now see why people think the Quartet is a masterpiece.
الحقيقة عارية.... مذهل بغباء
Here, Mountolive comes to Egypt in his twenties working for the British Foreign Office, has an affair with the middle-aged, still-married Copt Leila Hosnani, and becomes friends with her Oxford-educated son Nessim.
Many of the old familiars (or forgottens as the case may be) pop up, particularly Justine, married to Nessim, and Melissa, Clea, Balthazar, Darley (who narrated the first two novels), Narouz, Pursewarden.This volume is missing a bit of the writerly lushness that the first two novels have, but here's one example of the kind of thing I like.
Mountolive stands out as a rather unique character in the Alexandria Quartet where loves generally live brilliantly for their terms before dying at their appointed times.
Mountolive instead chooses in abject fashion to flee from his true love and to give  himself over to a vampire / succubus.
In so doing Mountolive betrays not only his true love but also the Copts of Egypt.
Like the other novels in the Alexandria Quartet, "Mountolive" is quite dreadful.
I've tried reading other books but this one kept beckoning.
My god, the language transports me.
This narrative starts out predating the ones presented by Darley and Balthazar in books 1 and 2.Finished yesterday.
So far my favorite.
The most straight forward narrative so far, mostly from the POV of Mountolive, but then switching to the omni narrative.
The prose, oh my god, the prose.
Such poetry, In this book we get a ton of information as to what is really going on in bks 1 and 2, not at all expected!
The sound of water trickling and of sponges crushing softly upon the body of his brother, seemed part of an entirely new fabric of thought and emotion.Sorry for any undue disclosures, but I'm attempting to keep my stride, however flailing and gurgling, towards the conclusion. A reddened, sweaty review of the Quartet is to follow.
This is the third book in the "Alexandria Quartet" but I particularly loved this one. It's so poignant. It deserves a review in itself!
Durrell's Alexandria Quartet is like a kaleidoscope, always refracting his characters and story in each succeeding book.
In Mountolive, the third volume, the sense of political intrigue that began in Balthazar takes on an even deeper character.
Mountolive is a young British diplomat in training when he meets Leila, who takes him as a lover on the advice of her crippled husband.As we know already from Justine, Leila is mother to Nessim, Justine's husband.
He reveals all of it like a Pandora's Box.I read this book in late winter, 2011 during the days of the uproar in Egypt.
It felt like I was reading exactly the right book.
Mountolive is the third installment of the Alexandria Quartet, and it was by far my favorite of the four novels.
I believe I liked the change of pace, from dogged introspection through recollections, to something more akin to a “roman de moeurs”.
I also could not resist the elements of political intrigue, the complex canvas of betrayals that occur throughout the novel and one of my favorite themes, the notion of forbidden love.
Finally I could not resist the geopolitical overtones that haunt the book and that seem to remain present, if minimally changed, throughout the Middle East today.Do things change?
(This inactivity is one of the main reasons that Mountolive can never be classed as a thriller.) This, of course, also gives an insight into the events at the time a few years before the book was written, the days when the treachery of Philby, Burgess and Maclean became known.As Justine (who was not a native Egyptian) is partly a symbol of Alexandria, so Nessim's mother in her turn is something of a symbol for Egypt as a whole.
True, the same characters were all here – Pompal, Pursewarden, Justine, Clea, Nessim, Balthazar, Darley (although not in his central role as narrator, as in the first two novels) – but the straightforwardness of the plot, the clarity of events, the seeming lack of ambiguity was startling, disconcerting.
Darley and his position in Alexandria also begins to be clarified, and it is far different from what was implied in novels One and Two. After this explanatory interlude, the narrative returns to Mountolive.
One of them is Durrell's own map to his quartet: To the medieval world-picture of the World, the Flesh and the Devil (each worth a book) we moderns have added Time: a fourth dimension.Indeed they are each worth a book.
If Justine introduced the World of Alexandria, and Balthazar developed the entanglements of Flesh therein, then, knowing full well that the time dimension will be left for the final part, Clea, that leave Mountolive to deal with the Devil.
The people and city reveal themselves not as simply characters in a story, but as four dimensional beings, viewed from completely different perspectives.
I suppose that I'll start with Justine, but I've been wondering if it might be more enjoyable to read them in the reverse of the usual order.Having said all this, Lawrence Durrell isn't for everybody (some even prefer his brother's books that I find annoying and trivial).
I can see that, it is as florid and dense as a wild, untended garden, but, for me, if done well, as it is, in the quartet, that density of imagery allows me to submerge myself into the zeitgeist, or, perhaps, weltschmerz of the period, place and people.
Really 4.5 stars, if not more.Hard to rate as this book builds on the previous two in the quartet, so while I enjoyed this immensely I'm not sure I would've to the same extent if I'd read it as a stand alone.
Within the context of the quartet though, it is probably the best one yet.
It was excellent, adding layers and building the tension and excitement.
Can't wait to read the next book!Think I have just joined the ranks of fans for this amazing series of books by Durrell :).RWR
هو انا متأثرة الحقيقة ان ناس كتير اعطتها 5 بس للاسف محبتش ابجزء ده يعني محستش له علاقة بالأحداث اوي ..حبيت الاجزاء اللي بتكشف عن علاقة نسيم وجوستين اكتر
A wonderful book.
Once again, lush and evocative language of exotic locations and complex, passionate characters.
However, it is totally the beauty of the language which carries this book into a realm of its own.
Once committed, the rewards are rich and boundless.Oh and I got a beautiful set of these books in Liverpool when I was on summer hols: Faber paperbacks from 1958 (clearly they have never been read!) which I am delighted about because I would read these again like old friends.
I didn't think Justine would be surpassed but this came very close...on to the next!
Going back now, I cannot help the feeling that Justine was just an illusion, an imaginary bubble created by poor Darley, and together with Balthazar served just as an introduction to this part which revealed all the complexity of human relations.
What most affected me was that in this part Durrell really hit one and true love between man and woman, not the platonic one based on mutual attraction, but the true feeling of connection between two human beings sharing same deepest and most hidden beliefs and fears…Enjoyed every minute of it!!!
Mountolive’in Mısır’la bütünleşmiş diplomatik kariyerini iskelet olarak kullanarak Nosnani ailesinin vs biricik Pursevarden’in büyük sırlarını açık eden serinin üçüncü kitabı.
Durell’in müthiş oryantalist (ve bence kadın düşmanı) anlatımı bu kitapta yine kusursuz.
Okumaktan hiç sıkılmıyorum, çok sürükleyici ve kendisinin yıllarca biriktirdiği kuzey afrika deneyimlerini edebiyatla yoğurması gerçekten çok etkileyici.
Fakat betimlemelerindeki gereksiz oryantalist tiksinmeler, insanı arapperver yapabilir seviyeye erişiyor bazen.
bu gizli nefret ve küçümsemenin yazar tarafından normalleştirilmiş ve size onun tarafından zorla hissettirilmiş olması üzüyor.
Halbuki diplomasideki yolsuzluklar(doğuya özgü mü değil mi tartışılır) ya da cenaze sahnesinde yaşananlar daha objektif şekilde - Durell’in zorla tiksindirtme çabaları olmadan yansıtılsa, okur kendisi karar verse kendisi anlasa...
Moving further away from Justine and Darley, respectively the focus and narrator of the first two books, it centers around a British diplomat, Mountolive, who made only the briefest of appearances before this.
We start with his relationship with Leila, Nessim and Narouz' mother, and cling to that while fast forwarding through much of Mountolive's career, until he is at last posted back to Egypt.The more linear nature of the story makes it substantially simpler to follow.
Mountolive, always as self-absorbed as many of Durrell's characters, simply becomes more feckless, and less interesting.At the end, Durrell seems to lose interest in his story altogether.
As a 'sibling' to Justine and Balthazar, I had my heart set on Mountolive being a further exploration of the nature of perspective (and the resulting and unavoidable human folly), but Durrell's choice of third person omniscient narration robbed me of the chance to see the relative 'truths' of his characters continue to unfold.
While I can see how it helped to move events forward, it really felt like a bit of a cop-out to provide (however unreliable) an omniscient 'birds eye view' of the various dramas/characters/events etc.Nevertheless, the prose is in top form: (view spoiler)[especially memorable were the night-fishing scenes, the reactions to Narouz's death, and of course the Egyptian landscape and the city of Alexandria.
One of the great virtues of the Alexandria Quartet is its ability to describe the cosmopolitan joie de vivre of a Mediterranean port city--which most certainly includes its vices, class system and heroic assemblage of often less than savory characters.I say heroic because the old Mediterranean ports where a collage of just about anyone, gainfully employed or forced to work, found a place in this world.
And how does Mountolive, the great ambassador, feel about it?Read and find out.
يقول لورانس داريل عن "ماونت اوليف" الجزء الثالث من روايته انها رواية مباشرة و واضحة تشرك الراوى -من 
Aslında son kitabı görmeden beş yıldız vermemek mi gerekirdi bilmiyorum ama şimdiye kadarki kitapların en iyisiydi. Olaylar netleşti daha ziyade derinleşti sanki.
And it turns out the context is all kinds of political, with the Housani brothers perhaps involved in some shady arms dealings that Mountolive and company have to get to the bottom of, if there is a bottom to anything is hazy, moderately corrupt Alexandria.Maybe I'm a cynical soul with no sense of love within my heart but I found the novel overall more engaging than the first half's focus on whether Darley can choose between sensible Melissa and wild Justine, like an adult version of Betty and Veronica .
In book one we are given a tragic romance a story of passion and love.
In book two we are told that the romance was nothing like what we thought it was, in fact was it even a romance or was it moment of love-blinded passion.
In book three, we find out that there never was any romance and that all of the inner motivations for everything related to the narrative has political roots.
As a final point, I was impressed with how different the narrative style of this novel was compared to the first two, in many ways this different voice demonstrates Durrell's literary powers.
