https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/51091.Wisdom_of_the_Heart
Miller's essay on CREATIVE DEATH should be enough to own this book.His voice carries intimations of Whitman and Emersonian thought.
He digs deep into the poets, the philosophers— even into spiritual thinkers such as Krishnamurti.
Henry Miller surrenders.
We perceive "the as-yet-unknown blossom," the "seasonal phenomenon" as he waxes and wanes.He calls us, as individuals, "to live." And to LIVE means "to be aware...
joyously, drunkenly, serenely, divinely aware.
In this state of god-like awareness one sings; in this realm the world exists as poem.” There is no better gift than “The Wisdom of the Heart.”
this is my favorite book! i have re-read it over and over again since my freshman year "writing the essay" course. we were supposed to read academically-accepted, canonized or modern (i.e. susan sontag) essayists. but i saw this book and i knew: a lasting relationship was to be formed immediately. whenever i'm having trouble with an essay, i open up this book and the words i like come back to me, the ones that taste good and perhaps make my essays generally unacceptable to my professors. ask me if i give a damn. you know i don't.
Good Miller.
Wisdom of the Heart - Henry MillerA collection of essays and some short fiction.
Really enjoyed this.
Again like Miller in general you will find this dry if your not into this sort of thing.
Found the short fiction, The Alcoholic Veteran with the Washboard Cranium and the pieces on Balzac's Seraphita and Louis Lambert really interesting.I love Seraphita, it is so much of a change (and strange) for Balzac, and Miller's thoughts are very helpful.
Randomly i reflected back on two other strange and wonderful works of fiction Brand by Ibsen and Modern Mephistopheles by Louisa May Alcott.
He finally got back to the writing I've come to really like when I read, "Into the Future".
I'm not sure I buy that, but it is an interesting philosophy.In the end, I did not enjoy this essay book as I had with "Stand Still Like the Hummingbird" which is still one of my all time favorite books.
His anger in "The Wisdom of the Heart" is very obvious and the book doesn't seem to string the essays in a cohesive way as my favorite book.
Unless we become our own leaders, content to be what we are in process of becoming, we shall always be servitors and idolaters.""The man who decides to live his own life is without fear; he lives positively, not negatively.""The highest activity is an effect rather than an act.""Man has no other real enemy than this which he carries with him.""Life, as it is called, is for most of us one long postponement.
Henry Miller was an eclectic spiritual searcher whose mind was every bit as inquisitive and daring as his libido -- perhaps more so.
Several essays in The Wisdom of the Heart rival the thought of Merton and Camus.
So far, Wisdom of the Heart is my favourite Miller.
In reading it I discover a mind overshadowed by the popularity of his more blatantly sexual works, Tropic of Cancer and Capricorn.
Both books broke censorship ground in the "sex, drugs, rock 'n roll" '60s, and made this "Old Dog" a sexual guru to my lost and never-got-found generation.
Henry Miller is quite an outspoken reviewer in this compilation, of several of his contemporary and senior European writers and philosophers.
This is only my second reading of Henry Miller, and is by far more clear than my previous attempt with Black Spring.
Maybe the simple purpose of giving praise to those he deemed worthy provided a good break from the soul searching which is sometimes difficult to follow in a more serious work.
It would be nice if the subjects with whom Miller writes were a tad more familiar to American readers , but this would probably detract from the base of his commentary here, as a traveler and free thinker.
Pretentious, arrogant, misogynistic, psuedointellectual, hipster-spiritual drivel with only the boneheadedly self-projected shell of an appearance of substance....there are rare moments of beauty which is why this got a 2 instead of a 1, but it is the worst type of mid 20th century american writing. Pedantic, cloying, self-righteous....I can honestly say now after reading this that I will never read anything else by this author.Henry Miller = Most Overrated Author I Have Read Yet....
Greu de apreciat căci sub aceeași copertă coabitează o serie de eseuri (unele din ele șontăcăiesc spre ocultism) și vreo trei povestiri care-s de-a dreptul geniale. Rezumat: viața-i un purgatoriu, dar ne putem folosi imaginația pentru a ne crede în Rai.
My favorite Miller essays always begin with him making an utterly pretentious statement and then following it with quasi-Eastern-religious platitudes. Let's face it, he was completely full of shit. That is why I love him. That is why he is a genius. That is why you should read him too.
I feel a connection to this writing, whether it is the Tropics, or simply essays. I identify with the lewd, the obscene, and the gentle rages of the heart. I think it was the first book I ever loaned out that didn't return because it was so good.
I read this because I love Anaïs Nin SO MUCH. however instead of learning what she liked about him I only learned that Henry Miller is a pompous, pretentious ass. oh, wait..well I never said Nin was without flaw.
Miller writes with such profound insight, it transcends the suffering he undertook to get there.
Probably the one book that "changed my life" more than any other, along with Siddhartha and a few others. Also was my first Henry Milller, and still his finest work in my eyes.
interesting collection of essays, good one to have on hand and keep reading as the moment hits you.
Awesome writing
Amazing philosophy!! <3
Not the best Miller i have read....and yet still much to ruminate about whilst reading which is always good as it shows the book is at least engaging.It's a book really made up of essays generally about writing or writers ..at worst it gives you desire to seek out works by the authors Miller himself holds in such esteem...at best you get tales of high living in low places.Not maybe the best place to state with Miller as there is a risk at times of the subject matter in various essays being enthused and yet alas..somewhat dry...
Some of these essays were very profound, while others were a bit lack luster. It is worth the read for those really good ones. It is kind of like going fishing.
Excellent essays on Balzac and Lawrence.
Excellent writing as always from Miller, except a lot of dated and inside material in this book of essays that I am ignorant of. That which I know about and his short stories are pretty much fucking awesome.
Henry Miller writes with an intoxicating lucid force. Many gems contained in his collection as well as a couple lemons.
i want this one too!
