https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110953.Lost_in_the_Solar_System
Ms. Frizzle and the class explore our solar system, planet by planet and through the asteroid belt. The book is educational, giving lots of information (I learned some things), but is a bit long for one sitting. We read it in two sittings.

A wonderful read from my childhood, one I’d certainly suggest for other youngsters. Whilst it is not my all-time favourite childhood read I can still recall all the details of this one meaning it certainly left a lasting impression upon my young mind. And isn’t that what we want with children’s books, for them to leave a positive lasting impression?
Written by Joanna Cole and illustrated by Bruce Degen, The Magic School Bus: Lost in the Solar System takes readers on an adventure with Ms. Frizzle and her class, this time, to outer space.
With its fun and detailed illustrations, I loved this picturebook because it provided information on the planets in the solar system in a fun way that is easily understood by children.This picturebook’s point of view is first person point of view, throwing readers directly into the story.
Degen probably depicted it this way to get the factual information about the planets in the solar system in an interesting way that young children would want to read and understand.
Science FictionAll of the Magic Schoolbus books are entertaining and vividly illustrated. This one is great to read to children in preschool-second grade to get the conversations going about our solar system. Like in all the books, the children begin their adventure on a magical bus with the wacky Ms. Frizzle. This magical bus can transform into a spacecraft that takes them to visit and learn about each of the planets in our solar system. This would be a great read aloud as provacation for an investigation of anything related to the solar system.
A blast (get it?) to the past! A great children's book for anyone to enjoy!To read my full review, click here.
This author does a great job of bringing fun into science!Summary: Ms. Frizzle and her class learn about the solar system in the classroom, and find out that their field trip isn’t going to happen since the planetarium is closed.
Ms. Frizzle once again decides to take her students on another wacky field trip to explore the solar system up close transforming the school bus into a rocket.
The Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System is a book about Ms. Frizzle's class trip to the solar system.
The format and design of the book is most definitely appealing to children.
So, children can relate to the fact that children are actually learning about the stuff that they are reading about in the book.
By also showing the students assignments throughout the book shows enthusiasm of the students learning and therefore displays the authors enthusiasm of the topic.I have always liked the Magic School Bus books.
Adam StukeyEDCI Author StudyBook ReviewThe Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System Background information, Joanne Cole is a well-known children’s book author. She has written myriad books in a variety of formats. From picture books to small short stories, she has done it all. She is famous for her Magic School Bus series. It even has its own television show. Miss. Frizzle is an icon in today’s modern classroom. But Miss. Frizzle was not the first fictional character that Cole developed. Cole f
Adam StukeyEDCI Author StudyBook ReviewThe Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System	Background information, Joanne Cole is a well-known children’s book author.
Her well known Magic School Bus series did not see bookshelves until the early nineties.
The students visit each of the planets in order and learn about their main characteristics before they come back to Earth.Conclusion, the book does not stray far from it cookie cutter predecessors, but this is a good thing, as the audience knows what to expect when they read a Magic School Bus book.
In conclusion, this would be a good book for any teacher to have in their classroom.
Joanne Cole’s The Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System is an A+ in any elementary classroom.
There are tons of The Magic School Bus books that are great for young readers.
One great aspect of this book is that it is a fun and easier informational book on our solar system and a description on each planet.
Mrs. Frizzle goes out to fix the bus but however gets lost in space and the children have to fly to each planet but also find Mrs. Frizzle.
This book is amazing and truly helps identify the planets by the use of colors of each planet and how they start with the inner planets and then move to the outer.
The Magic School Bus books are a great addition to any book shelf.
The wide variety of characters in Ms. Frizzle's classroom allow students to connect with or know someone that is like one of the characters.
I loved this book because each page had part of the story, facts about the solar system, vocabulary definitions, and a message from one of the students about something they were learning.
The book is definitely for older readers in third or fourth grade because all the reading and side notes could be overwhelming for younger readers.
In this book, Ms. Frizzle takes the students into the Solar System.
Ms. Frizzle gives them a tour of our Solar System.
She also takes them to the moon and the students learn about zero gravity in outer space.
During the trip, Ms. Frizzle's line gets cut and drifts off into space.
Later when the students return to the school, they find that Ms. Frizzle is already at the school waiting for them to return.
The students can learn a lot about the Solar System while reading this book.
There is not much colors within this book.
In my favorite book in The Magic School Bus series, Ms. Frizzle's class field trip to the planetarium turns into a trip through the solar system.
In this volume, their bus becomes a space shuttle, blasting into the solar system, where they journey to the moon, sun, through the asteroid belt where they lose Ms. Frizzle (!) and to each planet (and planetoid, in the case of Pluto, in this updated version of the book).Each page includes expansive illustrations full of details and clever plays on words to amuse adults, along with school-themed notes with fun facts and diagrams sprinkled throughout the story.
The Magic School Bus books are always a great way to get your student/child to read and enjoy non fiction.
There are tons of facts about the solar system!
I enjoy being able to read the student's thoughts as they are flying through outer space.
Also, the notebook pages on the outside of the page give students some fun facts about outer space.
I would use this book during a unit on the solar system.
When I am not doing a unit on the solar system I would have this book in my classroom library.
Lost in the Solar System by Joanna Cole, Bruce Degen (Illustrator) (Historical fiction)The Magic School Bus series is one that all of my daycare children have enjoyed.
This is a great book for introducing the solar system to young children.
The bus has changed into a rocket and the children are also suddenly wearing space suits and floating above their seats.
The bus/rocket takes the class on a tour of the solar system.
This is a great book to use when teaching children about the different planets.
I have a sensory box that I use when ready this book to my children.
This Magic School Bus book is about the lovely Ms. Frizzle and her classroom field trip to the actual solar system.
The book does a great job in presenting the information about the solar system in a fun, yet still completely accurate way.
I think that it would be so fun to do a Magic School Bus fair, where students pair up and choose a book to present to the class.
This is definitely a book that I will keep in my classroom library in the future, along with all of the other Magic School Bus collection!
Fun and engaging as always, this book is a great introduction for learning about the solar system.
The book is based on the premise of the students going on a field trip to a planetarium that turns out to be closed, so they board the magic school bus and visit the actual solar system instead.
A great and interactive activity would be to set up the classroom like the solar system using decorated foam balls that dangle from the ceiling and other various decoration necessities.
Depending on the activity the teacher wanted to do they could choose to do specific parts of the solar system and continue this lesson throughout the week or more.
Lost in the Solar System is about the adventure that Ms. Frizzle and her third grade class took to outer space.
Fantasy comes in when they go into outer space for a few hours and explore everything there is to know, which then ties into sci-fi because the idea of going into space for a short amount of time is unheard of, and then comedy comes in because of the quirky character of Ms. Frizzle and the behavior of most of the kids in Ms. Frizzle's third grade class.
Lost in the Solar System by Joanna Cole, Bruce Degen (Illustrator) (Historical fiction)The Magic School Bus series is one that all of my daycare children have enjoyed.
This is a great book for introducing the solar system to young children.
The bus has changed into a rocket and the children are also suddenly wearing space suits and floating above their seats.
The bus/rocket takes the class on a tour of the solar system.
This is a great book to use when teaching children about the different planets.
I have a sensory box that I use when ready this book to my children.
I loved reading “The Magic School Bus: Lost in the Solar System” by Joanna Cole, the story line was so fun and interesting to follow, plus there was so much factual information on the side of the story!
Magic School Bus should be brought into all Elementary classrooms, they have so much to teach children.
In this book, Ms. Frizzles class plans on going to the local planetarium to learn about the sky and solar system, the story takes a turn when the planetarium is closed!
The magic school bus then turns into a spaceship takes them up into space, the students are now astronauts.
Grade/Interest Level: Primary/ Upper Elementary (2nd-4th)Reading Level: Lexile, 480LGenre: Picture Book, Informational BookMain Characters: Ms. Frizzle and her classSetting: Outer SpacePOV: Third PersonSummary: Ms. Frizzle's class has a field trip to the planetarium, but finds out that it's closed for repairs.
Ms. Frizzle, the teacher, saves the day by having a field trip to outer space instead.
If we were learning about the solar system and the planets, I would use this book and have them do a KWL Chart of what they already knew, wanted to know, and learned at the end after they read.
Lost in the Solar System is a story about Ms. Frizzle's 4th grade class.
Somewhere along the way, Ms. Frizzle gets lost and the class must carry on the field trip to find her.
This genre is mostly science fiction with elements of science fiction and comedy as well.
The story had a big empahsis on science and learning facts about the solar system.
There is text and pictures all over the pages.
The text was mainly narrative from the characters.
It gave a lot of information while still having a fun element.
Most students are familiar with Ms. Frizzle and her class "field trips" to wild places.
For the planets, however, movement and video is not necessary.
In this book, Ms. Frizzle and her class visit all 8 of the planets and their moons.
Although the book was written in the 90s, most of the information is still relevant.
This would be a perfect book to use during a unit on the planets (4th grade).
This book could also be used in a lesson about the purpose of books (to entertain, to inform).
However at one point they get lost and must find their way through the other planets and back to home.
On the way they stop at all the terrestrial planets and swoop by the gas giants (since there is no surface to land on).
With the illustrations this picture book is second to none and help really catch the readers attention.This would be a great book to use in a science lesson about the solar system.
Kids could first learn about the solar system in class and then reinforce the lesson by reading this book.I would recommend this for 1st and up because the book is a pretty easy read.
This is a fun magic school bus book in which Ms Frizzle's class takes a trip to space.
On their trip, the class learned many things about space.
While this is a very content heavy book, it is still presented in a way that is fun and engaging for students to read and learn from.
You could ask students to create a model of a specific planet and it's observable features or you could ask them to write a narrative of their own imaginary field trip to space.
In The Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System, Ms. Fizzle’s class goes on a field trip to explore the solar system. They explore the moon, the sun, mercury, and an asteroid belt before the bus gets damaged. Ms. Fizzle tries to fix the bus but is accidentally stranded when her rope is cut. The students make their way to pluto before fixing the bus and turning back to rescue Ms. Fizzle and make their way back to school. This is a great book for younger children, it is easy to read and has great
In The Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System, Ms. Fizzle’s class goes on a field trip to explore the solar system.
Ms. Fizzle tries to fix the bus but is accidentally stranded when her rope is cut.
The students make their way to pluto before fixing the bus and turning back to rescue Ms. Fizzle and make their way back to school.
It is also great because it will teach young children basics of the solar system such as the planets and specific facts about each planet.
In all it is a great book for children.
This book was about the class’s field trip to outer space where they get to visit each planet and explore the solar system.
During this trip, Ms. Frizzle, their teacher, accidently gets lost in outer space.
Due to excellent teamwork and learning about the solar system, they are able to get Ms. Frizzle back and go back to earth.
I really like that on every page it has more information and facts about all the planets and different parts of the solar system.
This would be an excellent book to use in a classroom when talking about outer space and going over the information on each planet.
The solar system is huge, dark, vast, and has a red headed teacher guiding her class through it on a magical school bus.
This sounds like a wild dream, but for Mrs. Frizzles class, this is just another field trip!
In this edition of The Magic School Bus, we find ourselves lost in space.
Sure, this may sound like a horror story, but in fact we learn a lot along the way.
With a fun story as well as the typical side page information blurbs, this book provides entertainment and education for all.
This book could be implemented well in a science lesson involving the solar system.
This book was about Ms. Frizzle's class (plus a guest, Janet) taking a field trip to the Planetarium--only, it was closed.
So instead, the bus grew rockets and took the class to outer space.
They saw all of the planets and the sun, but unfortunately when the bus lost a tail light, they lost Ms. Frizzle.
I've always been a fan of The Magic School bus, and I'm especially interested in space.
Sometimes, learning can get boring if kids aren't interested, so using a fun book like this one can really help to engage students in learning about space.
1. "The Magic School Bus Lost in the Solar System" features Ms. Frizzles class who happen to have a magic school bus to take them on hands on, authentic field trips.
This trip they go to check out the Solar System and get to see the planets, moons and asteroid belt first hand!
This book, despite is publishing date is still tons of fun to read!
The book could be updated to reflect the demotion of Pluto and perhaps mention some new exploration discoveries beyond our system.
3. Books to pair: "Hello World!
Quote: "The Friz said our first stop would be the moon.
