https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/64923.Darwin_s_Radio
Several of his works deal with science and internal and external politics and how real science is done and I can't help thinking a more interesting novel would have resulted if he had started with the same material.I acquired Darwin's Children without realising that it was a sequel and then picked up this book subsequently.
I will probably read Darwin's Children at some point, since it is lying around and because it really ought to cut to the chase, with the background already painted in with excessive attention to detail but I shall try to resist the urge to buy any more Bear novels regardless of how interesting the premise sounds...
Cu toate că am rătăcit o vreme printre termenii din genetică, paleontologie și virusologie, premisa cărții a fost chiar fascinantă: (view spoiler)[ dacă evoluția umană nu este un proces lent de tip darwinist și ADN-ul nostru conține cheia unor salturi evolutive fulgerătoare? (hide spoiler)]Foarte bine scrisă și jonglând cu eleganță între știință și ficțiune, cartea lui Greag Bear este o combinație reușită de hard science-fiction, thriller și analiză psihologică a modalității în care societatea r

The characters are somewhat memorable, but more memorable is their pain; indeed, the pain of the whole world was felt in the back of my mouth, preparing it rise up from my stomach, up the pipe, out the maw, to hang onto my lip and smack me thrice on my face, wink, and then jump off to slither under the door-jam and horrify someone else.Don't get me wrong, this is a pure sci-fi novel, but no sci-fi affects me as much as the types that are just as facile in other genres.
Still, all of these books paled in comparison with Darwin's Radio.I have to say one thing: I cried uncontrollable tears at no less than three times during this novel.
Even when, on the very next page, Bear described a frozen waterfall as 'a gnome's upside-down castle' I thought oh, this won't be so bad.I was wrong.
I'm a big fan of Michael Crichton, and as such I expect a book's geek talk to be nicely interwoven into the regular dialog and not be too over the top for me, as a non-scientist, to handle.
I ended up skimming the sections where the geek talk occurred because it was simply that boring.It should also be pointed out that Bear actually namedrops Michael Crichton in the middle of the book.
3.5 stars. Excellent concept and great science highlight this very good "hard" SF story. Winner: Nebula Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: Locus Award for Best Science Fiction NovelNominee: John W. Campbell Award for Best Science Fiction Novel
These aren't the same biology principles I was bored with in high school, these are full out edges of possibility, dangerous and life-changing sciences.The principle behind this book is that subspeciation and thus, evolution, is actually a function of biologically engineered retroviruses- retroviruses with networks to tell when a mutation is working and when one is failing.
There is an obvious change in narrative about 4/5th of the way through the book that really jarred me, where they start a road trip and it switches from science-driven narrative to meandering emotion-based drama.
An excellent idea sadly marred by poor writing, the impression is that Greg Bear came up with a great idea for a novel, researched it and then decided to tell everyone look at what I have learned.
The main problem is the there is a distinct clumpiness to the story a few pages of story followed by look at what I learned today, a rushed ending just as the book begins to take shape.It borderlines on being turgid.
I wasn't put off by the science talk, though there was too much of it -someone who truly understood it would probably find a lot of holes in it, and someone who didn't get it beyond the basics didn't really need to read so extensively about it- but after the first half, the book starts taking a plunge south.
The sad part is that the concept is great and the human side of the thriller is very compelling, but once you start noticing the vices in the story, it kind of goes downhill from there.
Some of the writing is just...
Hard SF isn't just about the cool ideas: there has to be some element of execution there as well, or there's no point in writing it as a novel -- there'd be a non-fiction audience for speculation about the future too, undoubtedly.It's pretty unfortunate, since Bear did the work here in setting up the world, figuring out the details, making A lead to B without a gap in logic.
Unfortunately, the prose is flat, most of the characters likewise, and isn't there a song with lyrics that go I don't care a lot?
I really liked this book. The author obviously researched the subject matter thoroughly, and there was a good balance of science and engaging plot line. I found it to be an easy and fun read, and I will definitely be reading more books by this author in the future.
When something unbelievable happens in a science-fiction book, the author can take one of two approaches: either quickly handwave it with technobabble and move on to focus on the consequences of the event, or foreground the explanation based on reasonable extrapolations of current science.
The author tried to do the latter, but his "explanation" made all the sense of a handwave.I also found the author's attitudes toward women, particularly the bodily autonomy of women, to be troubling.
What happens to the women in this story is a violation of their bodily autonomy: they become pregnant against their wishes.
And our heroes -- that CDC disease hound, a successful biologist, and an anthropologist with questionable ethics -- begin to suspect it isn’t an outbreak at all.Okay, so it’s not actually a ‘read a textbook instead’ science fiction book.
Ooh, and there are actual people in this book, with actual people emotions and actual people foibles and actual people joys.But -- you knew it was coming -- I really didn’t like it much.
I’m sort of torn, actually, because the descriptions of just what scientists and politicians would do faced with a disaster like this one are actually pretty accurate.
It’s not a pretty picture, as well it shouldn’t be.
Darwin’s Radio is a pleasure for someone who loves hard science fiction, as I do.
Here’s the premise: SHEVA, a retrovirus long-buried in our genes, suddenly awakens and begins to attack pregnant women, forcing them to miscarry after three months.
But that’s just the beginning – after the miscarriage, these same women spontaneously become pregnant again, this time developing a fetus that’s not quite human.
Too much time was spent on a romance between the two major characters.
Although Darwin’s Radio is science fiction and not a techno-thriller, more action – yes, a little violence, too – would have strengthened the brew.
Actually 3.5, were that possible on GoodReads.I really enjoy science fiction with lots of science, and especially evolutionary concepts, so this book appealed to me immensely in theory.
The science behind the concept was intriguing and well developed, but the rest of the story dragged on longer than I thought necessary.
But Bear did a good job making it accessible to non-scifi buffs with the glossary and diffusion of the science throughout the human interest portion of the story.
Personally, I preferred the science portion, finding the relationships a little shallow and quick to form.I do look forward to reading the sequel, to find out more about the new species of human.
A fast-paced, page-turning sci-fi/medical thriller, with an acknowledged nod to Robin Cook's "Outbreak." However, the interesting (although improbable) scientific ideas in the book lift it above the run-of the-mill bestseller.An unusual discovery is made - two Neandertal mummies, with a seemingly normal, Homo Sapiens infant.
Is the child theirs?Meanwhile, a new transmissible retrovirus is discovered - although it might seem to be nothing more than a cold, one of its side effects in pregnant women seems to be miscarriage.
Mitch - an anthropological archaeologist with a dubious reputation, and Kaye, a rising star in the field of genetics, are brought together by an unexpected correlation between the ancient discovery and the modern virus.
Wrong book at a very wrong time for me, but given the bit about mass miscarriages and deformed fetuses and etc. I doubt I would want to stomach this during even a good time.
second read - 1 August 2002 - ***** Darwin's Radio is a 1999 science fiction novel by Greg Bear.
The novel follows several characters as the "plague" is discovered as well as the panicked reaction of the public and the U.S. government to the disease.first read - 4 November 2001 - ***** I was spending a little time in the public library the other day, and because some years ago I collected all the Nebula Award winning novels, I looked up what was the most recent winner.
Greg Bear has improved a lot since his implausible characters in his 1993 Nebula-winning Moving Mars.
Okay, interesting.And maybe that evolution is somehow directed, and the virus has been triggered because our species needs to evolve RIGHT NOW into something new.Okay....what?Evolution does not work like that.
Even proponents of punctuated equilibrium don't imagine that speciation occurs within a single generation, as far as I'm aware.I recognize that this is a work of fiction.
I was also looking forward to reading about a brilliant lady scientist, but eventually the book became all about the new babies and not so much about science, and lady scientists.
Also I thought the form of the "new species" was ridiculous, but I recognize that's an issue of personal taste.Ultimately, just not my thing.
Otro más leído casi del tirón.
Además muy apropiado en los tiempos que corren de gripe A o porcina o nueva gripe.
En este caso se llama gripe herodes, y ya os podéis imaginar el porqué.Una novela que el Times colocó como la 2ª mejor entre las 10 novelas de ciencia-ficción de todos los tiempos.
The basic premise -- there is a virus that allows the human genetic code to undergo a massive change to a higher lifeform -- provides a reasonable basis for the novel, but as a story it never comes together.The details of the new virus slowly emerge, as more people become infected and scientists start to study it.
Instead of building dramatically in the novel, it gets slowly dished out with enough hints as to where it is going that I started to feel as though I had read each detail three times.
I think I remember the second book being a lot more engaging, perhaps because there are a lot of very smart children in it, and who doesn't enjoy little kids showing up adults?This start is a little drier, and it's very science heavy, so if you're not into DNA and genetics, you might want to skip this one.
And when it wasn't getting into the nitty gritty of what is a virus and what is not, it was talking about the spread and trying to scientifically figure out gestation and other fun science-y things.
Which I did like, but is definitely meant for a specific audience.It did feel like it was just getting started at the end there, so book 2 is the place to be!
This book could have been considerably better, but the execution was just way off.
The idea is interesting, but has significant overtones of the misunderstanding that evolution is in some way directed towards improvement - more really needs to be done to emphasize why this is not a problem, otherwise you're going to lose me in magical thinking.The other issue is that the story and the characters don't seem particularly compelling, and the whole book kinda goes nowhere.
I found jarring (view spoiler)[the speed at which David and Kaye got together, as nothing in their interactions prior to that seemed all that romantic, (hide spoiler)] though that would honestly be easily forgivable if it went anywhere interesting.
I liked it.
I started it as an audiobook for a long weekend drive up to Eugene and I liked it enough to check out the book and finish reading it once I got back-I thought about finishing it through the cds but that would have taken too long and I HAD to know what would happen.
It's really like two books in one.
The first part has lots of science and a slower pace, then the book starts to go down an entirely different and unexpected path, raising some interesting ethical issues along the way.
This is the second book I've read this year about the evolution of humanity, though this one was a little less apocalyptic than The Girl with All the Gifts. Though I didn't find the book itself compelling, the topic was and reading this did inspire me to want to read on to discover what happens to Darwin's Children.
Vaguely scifi...a current day medical science intrigue. Cool idea. The story is really a thriller about the world's reaction to scary disease-like symptoms resulting in aborted babies and immaculate conceptions, which has occurred many times before in human history, and even before. The main characters are magnificently drawn; I really cared for them or at least could empathize with those I did not like. There were no cardboard cutout placeholders. The writing was magnificent, even if it wasn't exactly scifi.
Aparcado al 25%.Tiene un tono technothriller que se aleja mucho de la obra de ciencia ficción que daba a entender. No le puedo achacar nada negativo, solo que no es para mí.
4* for this audiobook edition, 3* for the book itself. It probably deserves better than that but the politics, while scarily believable, formed too much of the book for me without giving me the feeling of a complete picture.
4* for this audiobook edition, 3½* for the book itself. It probably deserves better than that but the politics, while scarily believable, formed too much of the book for me without giving me the feeling of a complete picture.
‘Darwin’s Radio: the missing link thriller The discovery of a mass grave of mutated villagers in the Caucusus; a mummified prehistoric family revealed by ice-thaw high in the Alps; a mysterious new disease that strikes only pregnant women, resulting in miscarriage – three disparate facts that will converge into one science-shattering truth.
The true horrors of the novel, such as the mob violence, the mass-killings of pregnant women and the outbreaks of religious fundamentalism and human sacrifice are for the most part kept in the background while Bear revels in his mastery of focusing on individual characters and through them disseminating the scientific research as it develops, hindered by the agendas of individuals and political systems and indeed by political divisions within the scientific community itself.
I read to get into a character’s head – to feel their fear, frustration, happiness, lust, pain – and this book gives all of that.I also enjoy when the science in science fiction feels real and is made interesting.
The CDC sends out its foremost “virus hunter” to track down the disease so that a cure can be found...Meanwhile, a geneticist with theories about why our cells contain so much “junk” DNA touches on the idea that perhaps, in times of great social stress, these apparently useless pieces of DNA recombine to help jump-start an evolutionary change – a change that will allow a new species or subspecies to emerge that can better deal with the stresses.
The idea is that a) evolution is going on below the radar, we each carry not just our phenotype, but our own genetic R&D team; b) evolution is a two-person activity - men carry this flu and can communicate it only to steady female sexual partners; c) environmental stresses are experienced by humans as a species rather than strictly on the individual level, because of our social nature, thus programmed responses tend to take on a large base of action.Bear balances his science and his socialization very nicely in this novel, and doesn't overreach on either front.
