https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6405929-i-alex-cross
I use to devour books by James Patterson until he started to write his books with every Tom, Dick and Harry (sorry Tom, Dick and Harry!
Don't get me started on THAT book!) which showed me he only cared about the big payoff at the end, the almighty dollar, if you will.
Plus the fact that his books weren't as exciting and thrilling as they once were.
This book I, Alex Cross, falls into that category.
Not exciting.
Not thrilling, same old, same old.
I specifically read this book as part of The Great American Read and now that I've finished reading the book I doubt that I'll read anything by him again.
“It was called Operation Coitus Interruptus, which only goes to prove that there are some people in the FBI with a sense of humor.”   This is my first James Patterson novel, and yes i know what you're thinking 'Emma, what have you been doing with your life up until this point?' Honestly, i dont know.. reading other great books? I like how James Patterson presents this story to the reader, taking us through different character perspectives helps build up the suspense and climax in his novel. Ho
What did she know/see?When the investigation leads Cross to a place where every fantasy is possible given you have the right amount of money or status, Alex soon finds he is in serious trouble facing some very dangerous, well protected public figures of this high society.First of all, i think my major problem with this was the fact i didn't feel much of a connection with the main character, Alex Cross, which is a pretty big deal considering the novel mostly revolves around him and solving this case.
I swear I could just keep reading and reading James Patterson's books in a day because of these lovely short ass chapters.
Or is it just me?Well it also seems to be a theme that Alex Cross can't do anything fun in his life because there's always somebody getting murdered.
No, I will not tell you who the killer was.Yes, I will tell you to go get this book and sit on your ass and read it.
DO IT!It's a pretty quick read due to the super short chapters guys!
Chapter 1 of my review of I, Alex Cross It's been years since I've read any James Patterson. At one point I had gone back to the beginning of the Alex Cross series and read Along Came a Spider and Kiss the Girls, but just never circled back around to the later entries.Chapter 2I liked those books well enough, quite a bit actually, in addition to a couple of JP's older non-series books. As a matter of personal preference I usually put some space between installments of a series, and before there
At one point I had gone back to the beginning of the Alex Cross series and read Along Came a Spider and Kiss the Girls, but just never circled back around to the later entries.Chapter 2I liked those books well enough, quite a bit actually, in addition to a couple of JP's older non-series books.
You’ll be on to the next one tout de suite.Chapter 8The front cover trumpets that "A beloved Cross family member has been murdered." If you're a regular Patterson reader, you might expect that some pivotal character buys it here.
I like Alex Cross as a character, so I read through to the end.
Not bad at all but I was more into the personal aspect of Alex’s life (Nana & Bree) than I was the crime plot. Kinda had a feeling the main criminal in this one would be a high power player in the White House. So the predictability did take away from this crime plot. Plus the happenings on the personal front for Alex Cross were more interesting than the crime plot. My quick and simple overall: not bad at all and a good, quick installment to the series.
I used to love the Alex Cross series but lately the books have been very loosely held together.
These things were never explained so they seem to have been added into the story strictly for the sake of some added violence.Alex Cross didn't solve this mystery (well at the very end he really does).
But why didn't Alex Cross (the defender of the universe) investigate who authorized the kill shot?
(hide spoiler)] This is just one of the things that bothered me about this book.
Os livros de James Patterson são todos bons, ele tem uma escrita que cativa sempre o leitor. No entanto este foi o que gostei menos de todos por causa do tema, sobre o qual não me identifico muito.
The title is a play on Cross' promise (that the reader knows he will be unable to keep) to better balance his work and family life.So, what's my gripe..
First, Cross does NO real detective work in this novel.
and those investigating don't solve some sort of complex mystery-- instead-- the bad guy's identity is handed to them on a silver platter-- a high level political figure...Once again, as in at least one earlier Cross story-- Nana goes to the hospital and much of the story dwells on whether or not she will survive.
I've read novels in this series that I enjoyed..
Anyway, Alex Cross is searching for the cause of her death/mutilation/etc.
He also found a similar paper in Caroline's room.
He connects them and tries to crack the numbered code written on both.
Right now I'm at the point where he has cracked the code and he discovers that there are different phone numbers written, not any numbers though, they belong to high influential people in the area.
Which makes him wonder deeply why Caroline would be connected to all of these high ranked individuals?
Oh, and did I mention Alex Cross and Caroline are related?
I enjoyed the rapid-fire pace of the story and how he kept the action moving with short chapters.And there sure was A LOT of action.
In addition, as the story revolved around a sex club, some chapters contained explicit sex.
With each murder and act of depravity, I really wanted Alex to track down the corrupt perverts and punish them big time.Another thing I like about the series is the presence of family, which balances the story out and adds an extra layer to Alex Cross.
It was a dose of humanity in the midst of a very inhumane murder case.I enjoyed this book, devouring it during one sitting.
This one was authored solo by JP, so I expected more, but it didn't have that "edge of your seat" feel to it, at least not for me.I've enjoyed the standalone authored books by JP, especially the Cross series, but this one didn't introduce anything new.
I felt like I was reading a previous novel for the second time, especially with the tangential story about Nana having a medical issue, being taken to the hospital, being obstinate about going home right away, and then being fine by the end of the novel.
Been there done that JP...like a standup comic that keeps repeating the same act, you need some new material.
The entire time it consisted of Cross being pointed down a line to the conclusion by everyone as they gave him everything he needed without any real investigation going on.
If you cut out every time Cross spends talking to her, over half of the book would be gone and we would still end up with the same conclusion without missing anything.
I absolutely hate Nana Mama and I was praying that she would finally die by the end of the book, but its obvious that she wasnt going to, despite her being over 90 and constantly in a coma.
É impossível ficar indiferente ao sofrimento do clã Cross durante a investigação do assassinato de Caroline Cross e da própria doença de Nana, a matriarca que todos os leitores já se habituaram a ver como a avó que todos gostavam de querer.Aguardo com muita expectativa a publicação do próximo volume, que certamente vai ser devorado tão ou mais depressa do que este.
I, Alex Cross is no different.Again, like a number of previous instalments, the involvement Alex has in the case is personal: his niece has been put through a meat grinder, and as Alex digs into her secret life in Washington DC, he learns of sex clubs and connections to the White House.The Alex Cross novels relay on their breakneck speed to entertain the reader, and this one certainly is whip-crackingly fast: I read it in three and a half hours, in one sitting, digested like junk food.
Which is what these novels are.What I said about a previous Patterson Alex Cross thriller was the interaction Alex has with his family, particularly Nana Mama.
A friend of mine, Marguerite, told me that if she’s me she will be running towards home instead of walking in the park while listening to this.
I must have done just that if my husband was not walking with me.
The story was very unnerving.
Alex Cross was personally involved in a murder case, wherein the victim’s remains were found in trash bags.
But unlike the others that focused more on the protagonist; this one focused more on the victims, the evidence, and the conspiracy.
It was a thrill tracing evidences back to the high-profiled perp.
Go into the library, into the audio books section and ONLY pick a book the librarians have already pulled out and put on display for someone to take.
But I was a little worried about starting at book 16 (lol).
This is an amazing audio book.
Now I want to listen to them all - starting at book 1!
I'm so glad the librarians pulled this out for me to pick from!
There are so many things wrong with this that I don’t even know where to start.I picked this book up on sale, and I am ever so glad that I did because if I’d paid £7.99 for it I would be pissed off, instead I’m just irritated.
At least, that’s what I gathered from the main character being a detective and, you know, a serial killer being on the loose.
And when your main character can be completely removed from the book without anything changing you have got a fucking problem.I’m going to ignore the laughable title of “thriller”.Secondly, plot devices.
Every now and then I want a book that's easy to read and easy to digest, I found this Patterson novel in a bargain bin and it fit the bill.
Technically it was all I wanted it to be, but it was also...
Just all in all a bit of a miss for me, especially as the only emotional weight in this book was about Alex's private life.
That's something I'm sure works for habitual readers, but personally, I couldn't care less about his private life and those parts held zero interest for me.Kind of a cool idea and a decent, if rushed, ending.
And I loved it!!When Alex Cross is pulled out of a family celebration with a bad news, you know it is a BAD News.
His niece has been murdered and her remains dumped.
Also, for those who have been following Alex Cross closely and have felt that the ‘X’ factor was missing the last few book, for them this book is a good news.
Alex Cross is back in his true form.
He is sharper than ever and is back to doing things in his own way.Some aspects of this novel remain true to rest of the series; the chapters are short and there’s some graphic content.
Another Alex Cross read that didn't entirely live up to the usual standards from James Patterson.
Cross vows to hunt down the killer, and soon learns that Caroline was mixed up in one of Washington's wildest scenes.
Alex is soon facing down some very important, very protected, very dangerous people in levels of society where only one thing is certain - they will do anything to keep their secrets safe." I'm starting to think that maybe James Patterson is struggling to know what to write next with regards to Alex Cross.
But this was the second Alex cross book that didn't have me gripped from the start.
400)One of the better Patterson offerings in the Alex Cross series.
Cross takes on the case and runs into a government cover up that goes to the highest levels of the White House.Of course, you get the gruesome serial killers, the attempts and threats of the Cross family, multiple players who are trying to cover their tracks and the high-drama of smart, moneyed men who feel like they can do anything with their exceeding power.This is the 16th installment of the series.
Hopefully Patterson’s prolific publishing won’t dilute his signature character in future installments.
The famous detective, Dr. Alex Cross, faces a tsunami of combustible elements in this most recent adventure, including:*A niece is brutally murdered*White House involvement*Alex’s grandmother (who raised him and is his confessor) is seriously ill in the hospital*A sensual playground for the rich and famous*Female President*High-level cover-up swallowing everyone in sight*An engagement ring in the pocket*Our hero is a marked man of the best at elimination without traceThis long-running series is one of the premier suspense-mystery-thriller sagas in the genre.
It is such a joy to read the work of a master on his plane of creativity.Maybe in a future saga, Alex will be off to exotica on a honeymoon where crisis ensnares him in a world where he does not have bearings, friends, or knowledge.
I was very disappointed in this installment of the Alex Cross series.
The book's jacket reads, "A beloved member of the Cross family is murdered," but a few chapters in we learn that the family member is someone we've never even heard of in the previous books.
Alex spends the whole book trying to find justice for the family member and after the usual Patterson fake-outs and red herrings, the culprit is revealed and done away with suddenly ...
too suddenly.
It was a lot of build-up for a rushed and senseless ending.
For me, an Alex Cross novel is like a bag of dill pickle potato chips. Yummy but oh so bad for you. A guilty pleasure. Tart... maybe a little sour. Takes the "hair" off your tongue because of the acidity. Just like it's hard to stop eating those tasty little chips, it's hard to stop turning the pages of an Alex Cross book. It's mindless munching. A fast, fun snack. Just what I needed during this crazy, busy, stressful time of year.
I both liked and hated this book. Can't really get into it without spoiling the book. So I'll let you decide for yourself. God I suck at book reviews... I'm too nice... lol... good. There's too much negativity in this world. "They're good books Brent!" LMAO
Adoro James Patterson, e sem duvida que a saga Alex Cross é a minha preferida. Este livro é muito bom, e inesperado.Recomendo
I believe this is the first Alex Cross book I've read - well technically I listened to it but you get the point.I really enjoyed the overall story line of this book.
The whole hush-hush dirty underworld aspect really intrigued me and it's something I think I've come across a lot in previous reads.The narrator is...
not what I expected.
I found it hard to get a feel for how old Alex was based on the narrators voice.
However the narrator made him feel older...
So it was a bit confusing.Overall not a bad story, entertaining to listen to and from work.
I, Alex Cross was a pretty good book. In the beginning the book jumps around between points of view a lot and it can be hard to follow. The novel is about a Detective Cross, who works for the DC police, and his journey solving the murder of his niece who was also a prostitute. Anyone who enjoys mystery novels will enjoy this book.
This was a very intense book (should say book on CD). We listened to it on a short road trip on Friday and then sat in our car last night until the end! James Patterson writes great books! Alex's niece is found murdered - he vows to find her killer but finds she was mixed up in something he didn't know about!
I really don't understand how James Patterson keeps writing these books and I keep reading them thinking they're going to be different. I figured out who the killer was in about the first 5 minutes of reading this book I was very disappointed to find out that I was correct it was very predictable. I did however enjoy the Nana Mama line and the development between he and his newest love Bree
