https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/37024.The_Bears_on_Hemlock_Mountain
And thus, I have been only mildly amused by The Bears on Hemlock Mountaib at best, mostly because I simply have found Alice Dalgliesh's textual expression and description not all that personally engaging enough (and definitely seriously lacking in for me required details), as well as the ending feeling a bit rushed and annoyingly incomplete.
Oops, read another upcoming Newbery before its time. Oh well; this is not much longer than a picture-book, profusely illustrated, and ever so charming. Even the design is important - I hope the editions with the modern cover at least have the same interior setup. This could even, imo, have qualified for a Caldecott. I look forward to rereading it with the group.
Charlotte's Web was also an Honor that year (along with three others), losing out to Secret of the Andes by Ann Nolan Clark.
Bears on Hemlock Mountain received the same award as Charlotte & Wilbur?
How could any other children's book of that year have been better than Charlotte's Web??
The End.So, back to the book: Jonathan lives on Hemlock Mountain.
His entire life he has been assured--by a little chant--that there are no bears on Hemlock Mountain.
There are bears on Hemlock Mountain.
On a quirky note, the chant bothered me because I could not discern a steady rhythm:THERE ARE NO BEARS ON HEMLOCK MOUNTAIN, NO BEARS AT ALL.
I loved the woodcut illustrations in this book.
I can see how it would be perfect for kids that are just starting to read longer books.
Other reviewers seem to think this story is shallow and lame.
I think that the story The Bears on Hemlock Mountain reads like an oral tradition or folk tale.
I like that Jonathan has a large family and is kind to animals.
One reviewer implied that they thought Jonathan's family was going to hunt/kill the bears, but I didn't get that impression.
I LOVE the woodcuts in this book.
It is amazing when I read some of the wonderful Newbery books written in the last few years, especially those written by Christopher Paul Curtis, Gary Schmidt, Jacqueline Woodson and Patricia Reilly Giff to name a few, and compare them to much earlier works.Case in point is The Bears On Hemlock Mountain written by Alice Dalgliesh in 1952 wherein the tale is trite, cute and childish.
Listening to tales that there were NO bears on the mountain, Jonathan is skeptical.Returning home in the dark he discovers his fears were indeed founded.
The song sparrow says:Put on the kettle, kettle, kettle over, and over again.That's one of the things I like about a well-written books for kids -- I always learn something.Unlike many Newbery titles, especially the newer ones, this is a story for young children. I like the 8-year-old boy's interest in wildlife, and I suppose that (view spoiler)[ it was realistic to shoot the bear for food, especially since this was written in 1952 (hide spoiler)] but I would have preferred a different ending.
I just loved this story. It follows a little boy named Jonathan that is asked by his Mother to go down Hemlock Mountain to get a large cooking pot from his Aunt. Are there bears on Hemlock Mountain? You must read to find out! I highly recommend this to kids of all ages.
Cute book! My kids still start chanting, “There are no bears on hemlock mountain, no bears no bears at all...”It was a quick, fun read a loud to start out homeschool year.
A great, early chapter book.
It's just slightly more challenging than Frog and Toad Are Friends.
The story is about a kid walking over a snowy hill and hoping that he won't see any bears.
Adventure ensues.This book is made to be read aloud.
I got a kick out of Helen Selwell's illustrations and Dalgliesh's use of music and rhythm.I feel like the publishing industry doesn't put the same thought and care into early chapter books that they used to.
So instead of treasures like The Light at Tern Rock, we get rubbish like Junie B.
Jones and the Stupid Smelly Bus.
A great story that is repetitive in its language and rhythm and rhyme and feels more like a traditonal tale than one that has been cobbled together to hit high frequency words.
It tells the story of a young boy who is sent over a hill (Hemlock Mountain) to fetch a great iron cooking pot from his aunt.
This is an excellent read-aloud story with plenty of repetition that children would enjoy joining in with.
I also think the story lends itself incredibly well to drama and I like that, throughout the text, there are stylistic choices which would be exciting and new to a newly confident reader.
The Newbery is awarded for the "most distinguished work"; presumably the Honors are given for "distinguished work"; and distinguished is the last word I'd use to describe this ordinary easy-reader.
They might as well have picked any book from the easy-reader shelf.
The author received an Honor for a previous (very different) book, or I might think that's exactly what the committee did, but committees love those previous honorees.I would seriously love to read a transcript of this particular committee's meetings, because I can't understand what went on.
I'm thinking of writing a Da Vinci Code-style novel about it.
This doesn't have great reviews, but I thought it was great and Asher really enjoyed it too. I admit I have a penchant for old-fashioned kids' books that I'm attempting to pass down to my kids. Maybe that's why we liked it, but it was also a simple, sweet story with just the right amount of scary for early readers (or listeners, in our case).
As I continue to cross off a variety of lists that have been on my to-read list for a long time. This one is a Newbery Award that I thought I had not yet read. I was wrong, I actually remember reading it as a child and loving it. Being a mountain gal, I laugh at the description of Hemlock "Mountain" but it sets the stage well for a cute story.
I liked how descriptive this book was. It was a nice short story.
One spring, expecting many relatives for a feast, his mother sends him over Hemlock Mountain to fetch a large iron pot from his aunt.
All of the adults (except his Uncle James, who has taught him how to observe wildlife) believe that there are no bears on Hemlock Mountain, but Jonathan isn't so sure.
His father and uncles come to rescue him just in time, and he proudly presents the pot to his mother.This brief book is masterfully crafted, and through Dalgiesh's easy-to-read prose the young reader gets a picture of Jonathan's close-knit, loyal, and sometimes overwhelming colonial family.
3.5 starsI really, really liked this short and cute little chapter book right up until the very end.
Most of the book is spent with Jonathan, the 8 year old boy who makes his first trip over the mountain.
He hides under the large iron kettle he is bringing back and the bears run off when the boy's father and uncles approach.
The boy and his father head for home and his uncles head off with their rifles and shoot the bears.
(hide spoiler)]I still think the book was a good book, it just seemed like that didn't add anything to the story and was an awkward ending.
So did the parents just not want to admit to themselves that there were bears that could possibly eat their son? And all because Mom needed a giant stew pot. "I hope the stew was good, Mom. I just risked my 8 year old life for it."
Booktubeathon #6.... love the illustrations! Really adds to the story.
When he stays too long at his aunt's house and ventures home in the dark, however, it becomes clear that there are bears on Hemlock Mountain - and Jonathan must outsmart them if he's to make it home safe and sound!It is surprising to me how many reviewers on Goodreads are critical of the Newbery committee which awarded this book an Honor in 1953.
Perhaps it is the simplicity of the story - which is most appropriate for beginning readers - that turns them off, but as I write this review weeks after finishing the book, I am struck by how many details and images have stuck with me.
I pick books up like these because they are considered award winning (or nominated) literature and because I think it important to explore the reading world, even the parts that might not initially interest me.
Personally, I would use this story as an example of how parent’s shouldn’t behave to my children, thus still making good use of the book.
Overall, I did not find this book inspiring in the least, but did enjoy reading it to my son, nonetheless, because of it’s simplicity, and to form my own opinion.
Comparing to the other Alice Dalgliesh children’s Newberry award book I just finished reading, this one pales in comparison.
I would probably give this book one and a half stars. It has a nice regional Pennsylvania feel to it, something that means a lot to me personally due to my family's close connections in the rural section of the state.  The Bears on Hemlock Mountain is not typical of what usually received Newbery Honor nods, but it is written in the same Alice Dalgliesh style that garnered her two additional Newbery Honor citations.
Listened to this book -- truly a timeless tale of courage -- although I'm not sure that many children of today could relate! I do plan to share it with my granddaughter when she's old enough to understand, but probably won't be recommending it in the library anytime soon!
I read this book aloud to the kids (ages 5 & 7) in one sitting. The story is a lot of fun and the kids were engaged the whole time. I especially love the references to nature. By the end of the book, we were all chanting "There are no bears on Hemlock Mountain. No bears at all!"
An early chapter book for young readers about an eight-year-old boy who travels over a mountain to borrow a huge iron kettle from his aunt. A 1953 Newberry Honor, this could work as a read aloud to introduce The Newberry Awards or give to fans of Lynd Ward's The Biggest Bear.
Newbery Honor, 1952. Cute story of a young boy doing a grown-up errand: going across a mountain to fetch a pot from his aunt got his mother. The suspense around the question: are there bears on Hemlock Mountain? is well done and the unfolding answer is a little funny and a lot satisfying.
Cute, but nothing special. I liked the easy-to-read format and this would be a great beginning reader for kids interested in westerns or pioneer stories.
As the boy went through the woods, it grew more and more interesting.
This was the first book I ever read by myself!
Because of th delay in returning back to his home over Hemlock Mountain- he sets off by himself with the warning to come back during the day-he finds himself afraid and hearing loud noises- bearlike as he retruns down to mountain to home.
The lesson for me to take is not to delay doing things because of too much milk and cookies, and get your chores done before taking time to enjoy yourself- a lesson I am still struggling with as I love to read.
Read this through Facetime to Katelyn and Nathan.Great chapter book for this as the chapters are short.Good story of the growing up of an 8 year old boy who was asked to "fetch" a cooking pot from his aunt on the other side of Hemlock Mountain, which, according to mom, had no bears on it.Reminded me of another story of bravery, Brave Irene!Great stories for our kids who really don't face challenges like these!Suggested in the Read Aloud Family....
