https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246422.The_Gulag_Archipelago_1918_1956
But I choose to take a very simple message away from this story: any day on which your testicles are not being used for soccer practice is probably, on the whole, a pretty good one.
That may sound horribly flippant, but Solzhenitsyn himself makes a similar point elsewhere in the book, claiming that it was precisely his years in the camps that gave him access to the miracle of normalcy, of mundanity.So coming back to my blah, unblogworthy day: this quotidian bullshit—wandering around, drinking coffee, downloading sitcoms from iTunes—this is what it’s supposed to be like.
Instead, it turns out this mighty work is half well-researched investigation into the processing of Soviet political prisoners and half personal account of the author's own experience in the "sewage-waste disposal" that led to the gulag.
Finally, I'd like to add that I spent most of February on this book, thinking there is no better time to read about the Siberian prison system than slugging through my own wintry prison everyday.
As I was conducting my normal post-reading research, I happened to discover that my edition of the book only contains the first two volumes of the Gulag Archipelago.
This work is not simply a testament and memorial to the victims of the Gulag, it is also a testament to Solzhenitsyn's courage and righteous anger.
The second book details the life of suffering in the Gulag, and we hear accounts from all sides: the men, women, and children(!!??) who were its victims; the stoolies and trusties, who sold out to the regime in order to survive; he even has one chapter on the guards.
Well, I come back to it being a testament and memorial to the suffering of Gulag's victims.
You will see blue-pilled virtue cons quote it about “human dignity” (and liberals ignore it altogether), but few will follow his reasoning out (and definitely shy away from what he says about Churchills).I don’t think even Solzhenitsyn anticipated how accurate his words would describe 21st century social science, particularly “social engineering.” Social engineering is when a scientific and/or ruling elite engage in various practices to “shock” a people, thus manipulating them towards a pre-planned goal.
That’s what the Deep State does, but that’s not what Hegel said.We might be tempted to say that the Soviets elites are simply stupid.
However, anyone with an interest in the history of Communism, the Soviet Union, or political repression in general should read it.
Yes, it's tedious, and it is tough going if you've never taken a course in Russian or Soviet history (you quickly discover that the glossary in back exists for a reason).
As he says, he felt the responsibility to speak not only for himself, but also for the millions not living and otherwise silenced.
The vast scale of the entire "Gulag Archipelago" tells much about how seriously Solzhenitzyn took this responsibility.
Even for someone familiarized with the era and events, this book has been one of the most difficult reading experiences of the past years.
Yet, one should push through and read all of it, in all its gore.
We must never forget these events that shaped human history and influence it today - we must look at it straight in the eye and make sure we don't repeat this.
A requiem for human pain and endurance in the face of complete absurdity and an ode to the spirit, that strives to be free even in the worst of circumstances.
A testimony like very few you can read and experience.
They almost become dreary, again similar to Bolano, but instead of a detached tone you always get his humorous comments on completely absurd events which creates a dark comedy out of the undoubtedly darkest time in human history.
Reading authors like Kafka or Dick who lived in very ordered and mostly fair systems and being as pessimistic as they were almost seems like a joke, compared to Gulag Archipelago, where all the absurdity you can find in those two is recorded, plain and simple, as another record in history.
As President Trump speaks of the press as "the enemy of the people" it is chilling to know that this accusation is exactly what many were imprisoned for in the gulag.If so many people are imprisoned then why not have them work on national projects for no pay?
I once worked with a Russian emigre who told me of his life in the USSR not as a prisoner, but simply as a citizen who, like everyone else, had few material things and was powerless to change things for the better.
A story I've told more than a few times: when Mr. Solzhenitsyn died in 2008, I thought that an appropriate time to read this book.
Certainly I could read about it in my comfy chair in my comfy home.So I thought that once I finally finished, my book review would literally be "I'm done!" Or I might possibly write a few words on people who say "The Ukraine" vs.
And so he was numbered with the transgressors."In the discussion of hiding large groups of people from those not imprisoned, I found this passage extremely moving:The preparation of the train has been completed -- and ahead lies the complicated combat operation of loading the prisoners into the cars.
I hadn't known this was a seven part work, encapsuled in three volumes.
Most moving for me and downright poetic is the passage in the last chapter entitled "From Island to Island" about the rare special-convoy trips between prisons.
Special-convoys are hardly "distinguished from free travel.
"If the souls of those who have died sometimes hover among us, see us, easily read in us our trivial concerns, and we fail to see them or guess at their incorporeal presence, then that is what a special-convoy trip is like.
I want free speech!
This book should be the bible for those who keep praising Soviet Union. It should finally open their eyes. And if this book wouldn't be able to do it, I'm afraid, nothing would.
Sometimes (like today) when I have had a really long day at work, and nothing seems to be quite going my way, or I'm verbally assaulted by one or more parties, or I have to do too much math and my brain melts a little, I think that the idea of being in the Gulag sounds pretty nice right now.Of course I'm not serious, and if you think I am, you shouldn't be reading my reviews.But on days like today where it just doesn't seem like things could get much worse, it's hard not to think of Solzhenitsyn and his imprisonment.
In God's providence, Solzhenitsyn was arrested and spent years in the Gulag.
What miserable irony that a man of Solzhenitsyn's literary talent spent time in the Gulag allowing him to expose the horrors of Soviet communism to the world.This book is an important testament to the wicked ideology of communism.
There are two additional books which I hope to read in the coming year.
I am grateful that a man with Solzhenitsyn's talents lived through the Gulag in order to preserve its memory for future generations.
May it be a testament to the evil in the hearts of all men.
Πολλοί αναγνώστες το συγκρίνουν με τις Ιστορίες από την Κολιμά, του Βαρλαάμ Σαλάμοφ. Γεγονός είναι ότι πραγματεύονται το ίδιο θέμα, έχουν τον χαρακτήρα του βιβλίου-ντοκουμέντου, απόρρoια των προσωπικών βιωμάτων που φέρουν οι συγγραφείς από τη διαμονή τους στα στρατόπεδα εργασίας της Σιβηρίας. Το βιβλίο του Σοζενίτσιν, ένα ταξίδι στο σκοτεινό παρελθόν, αποτελεί χρέος προς τους χιλιάδες ανθρώπους που άφησαν την τελευταία τους πνοή στα γκούλαγκ της αχανούς Ρωσικής ενδοχώρας. Είναι ένα καλό μάθημα ιστορίας, μια εκτενής μελέτη για τα όρια της ανθρώπινης θηριωδίας. Η ιστορική επιβεβαίωση του Homo Homini Lupus.. Αποκαλυπτικό βιβλίο, χαρακτηρίζεται από λογοτεχνική αρτιότητα, που χρήζει ιδιαίτερης προσοχής.
One of the most intensely human books I have read in a long time - which is the exact opposite of what I had expected.
Because this is a treatise cataloguing a crushing system of tyranny and brutality.
It painstakingly details systematic DEhumanization...
AND YET what the book is really about are the zeks within the system and their ability to find spiritual strength and dignity in the abyss.
In the utter ABYSS.Richly illustrated, brilliantly written.
It is a full, captivating, meticulously researched memoir.
This is the very best art.Also, this was only volume one of three and it got wildly good at the end.

Solzhenitsyn uses the GULAG system to define the moral bankruptcy of the society and the philosophy that produced this nightmare, barbed-wire world.
The tiny details all relate to the vast whole.The amazing thing about this book is how some of the people were NOT crushed by the system and found an amazing spiritual strength amongst the horror and the lies.
People who have grown up in a society where there is an objective moral code and the rule of law is respected have trouble imagining the depths that everyday people can achieve in a world where those things dont exist.
Цочо Бояджиев казва, подзаглавието на творбата смислово си противоречи – все едно дървено желязо, но всъщност с прочита на книгата се убеждаваме, че противоречие няма) – дали защото е била забранена до съвсем скорo, за поколението на родителите ми, а и за това преди него, чиито младежки търсения са били задушавани от същата (като концепция, но за щастие не и като мащаб) система, която Солженицин описва; дали защото смътно съм усещал колко важно е да съм запознат с написаното вътре, за да oсъзная значимостта на факта, че нещо подобно (поне в Европа) е вече за щастие немислимо; дали защото искрено вярвам, че за страданието на миналите генерации не бива да се мълчи, а да се говори, говори, говори...
It was subsequently repeated by Hitler with the Jews…”"It became necessary to rid the villages also of those peasants who had merely manifested an aversion to joining the collective farms, or an absence of inclination for the collective life, which they had never seen with their own eyes, about which they knew nothing, and which they suspected (we now know how well founded their suspicions were) would mean a life of forced labor and famine under the leadership of loafers.”“Beyond this, in every village there were people who in one way or another had personally gotten in the way of the local activists.
“To stand up for truth is nothing. For truth, you must sit: in jail!”This production breaks up the (70 hour) audio book into three volumes—full review to come.
მე კიდე ბავშვობაში გრაფი მონტე-კრისტო-ს წაკითხვის მერე მონუმენტური რამეები ძალიან მიყვარს :) ხოდა ერთხელაც კაი ფასში იყო ყველა ტომი და დავითრიე ეგრევე, მალევე წაკითხვაც გადავწყვიტე.რა გითხრათ აბა?
პირველ რიგში კიდევ ერთხელ, უკვე მე-1000000-ედ დამტკიცდა, რომ მოლოდინები არის ხიხი :) ამ შემთხვევაში საერთოდ ავიჭერი - არა მხოლოდ რაღაც სასწაულ რამეს ველოდი, არამედ პირდაპირ სასწაულ მხატვრულ ლიტერატურას.
აი ხო ყველამ ვიცით რაც ხდებოდა იქ ამდენი წელი და რამდენი მილიონი კაცი გაწყდა, მაგრამ ეს ისე წერს, ისე აზვიადებს ყველაფერს, ისეთი ცალმხრივი არგუმენტები მოყავს, იმდენად მიკერძოებულია, რომ უკვე ეჭვი გეპარება სიმართლეში - სტალინზე ტროცკის დაწერილი წიგნიც კი არააა ისეთი მიკერძოებული, როგორც ეს.
მაგრამ როგორც ცხოვრობს 15-კაციან კამერაში 300 კაცი - არ მჯერა!
Fears lecture: Books That Have Made History.
Although the book can be challenging for a westerner that knows little about Soviet history, this book deserves to be read.
Its probably not the best book to start with, as I felt a little lost with the historical context and the role of some of the people mentioned.It is an overdose of pure evil.
What I admire most about Solzhenitsyn, is his relentlessness and will to write this book while being imprisoned.
It is not a book for everyone.
It is a must read for avid history readers.
I have to add a leaven of more cheerful books to sustain me, but that unfortunately makes me feel like I can't keep a very accurate mental picture of the details.
Still, when I first opened Volume 1, I couldn't help feeling a thrill of excitement imagining the lightning bolt this book was in its time and how it must have felt to obtain it secretly, read it hurriedly -- and nervously!
That brings to mind the only other difficulty I encountered with the book, which was that I sometimes couldn't understand Solzhenitsyn's references to people or events that would have been (I assume) common knowledge among his audience at the time.
Beyond the cruel torture tactics, outlined numerically 1 through 21 (or more, perhaps), the capricious reasons behind arrests and sentences and the general misery surrounding this memoir of imprisonment, lies insight into human nature - how a nation can fall prey to the evils of those at the top, the acquiescence of those being ruled and the strength of the human spirit to endure it all.
Many of those imprisoned under Stalin were Red Army soldiers who were fully armed at the time of arrest.
There wasn't a general call to arms, just a slow descent into hell.
Having heard some of the quotes from this author before and having read them, it was quite interesting to see the context in which they appear, and to see this work as an example of a man trying to come to grips with his own humanity and the inhumanity of his place and time.
We look at the author's comments on arrest (1), the history of the gulag as the sewage disposal system of Russia (2), as well as the interrogation (3) and the corrupt bluecaps who work as the interrogators (4).
Solzhenitsyn is a hero for writing this, a hero for all humanity.
Αν και το έχω διαβάσει σε δύο τόμους, εκδόσεις Βίπερ (εξαντλημένο πλέον)
Homo homini lupus Urmăresc cu interes de vreo săptamînă încoace o dezbatere furioasă în presa românească cu privire la trecutul legionar al intelectualității noastre interbelice și la felul în care ar trebui sa ne poziționăm față de acest trecut, care va să zică dacă valoarea operei îl scuză pe omul de nimic care a creat-o. Nu am să dezvolt răspunsul meu categoric negativ la această chestiune (care oricum are marele defect, cum bine observa cineva, de a face confuzie între etic și estetic), ci
De aceea nu, eu nu prea văd vreo diferență între atrocitățile antisemite descrise în Jurnalul lui Mihail Sebastian sau în Se questo è un uomo al lui Primo Levi și cele comuniste din Arhipelagul Gulag al lui Soljenițîn, de exemplu.Masivul memorial Arhipelagul Gulag, al cărui prim volum tocmai l-am terminat, este o altă dovadă incontestabilă a faptului că omul nu ucide sau torturează cu adevărat pentru o idee, ci pur și simplu pentru că poate, pentru că se trezește deodată într-o poziție de forță de pe care nu-l mai oprește nimeni să se dezlănțuie.
Whenever people in America want to say something is evil or atrocious, the quickest comparison is the Nazis and Hitler.
We all know the story of the Nazis and the evils they perpetrated.
I wonder though, do we too quickly forget the evils of Soviet Russia and Stalin?
Perhaps it is because we fought with the Russians and against the Nazis in WWII that the evils of the Nazis are more known to us.
It really hit me a couple years ago when I read a history of WWII that emphasized how America partnered with one evil dictatorship to defeat another.
Este primer volumen, de los tres que conforman la obra, nos cuenta la forma de llevar a cabo la instrucción de los juicios que mandaban al gulag a la población, principalmente aplicando el artículo 58 (por traidores, saboteadores, enemigos de los trabajadores o del pueblo).
La mayoría eran autoconfesiones provocadas por diferentes formas de tortura.
Los prisioneros de guerra que escaparon de los nazis o los liberados durante la segunda guerra mundial iban directamente a Siberia junto a sus familias.
En vez de recibirlos como héroes eran despreciados como traidores.También se nos narra los desplazamientos entre distintas cárceles y la organización de los presidios.
