https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/138139.Letters_of_John_Keats
"You must be mine to die upon the rack if I want you." In which party-girl Fanny Brawne gets told.I love these. I love that he quotes an entire page of Robert Burton; that he spells more worser than Dickinson; and that these letters are 120 years old but fresher than yesterday's tweet-bleats. And I conclude with an immortal haiku from, I believe, the late Seymour Glass.John KeatsJohn KeatsJohnplease put your scarf on.
I liked Keats' poetry well enough in school, though of the Romantics, Shelley was my favorite.
My professor said something that stuck with me, though--he said, that of all the Romantics, Keats is the one you would have most wanted to be your friend.
Years later, still thinking about this, I went out and bought Bates' excellent biography, which led me to reading all of the letters.
The version pictured here--Gittings version--is the one I recommend, though I didn't enjoy his biography as well as I did Bates'.
Have had this book for at least ten years (given to me by my dad when I was in middle school). Finally reading it. It is juicy, funny, tender and brilliant. I often forget I am reading something written almost 200 years ago.
The letters by John Keats are as wonderful as are his poems, of course!
Keat’s poems and letters are an absolute pleasure to read.
Keats is one of the most seductive poets I have ever read.
Keats also had an enduring interest in antiquity and the ancient world.
He borrowed many figures from ancient mythology.
When I read these poems as a young girl, I didn’t understand his references, as I had never studied mythology.
Having taken the time to understand them, his poetry has only become more full and beautiful, and for me, this has added a whole new level of depth to his poems.Let Keats swallow you up.
John Keats is just beautiful in all ways. His letters to Fanny Brawne...are...well...yeah. I read a version that said they wouldn't include the Fanny letters and it kind of made me miffed, but now I understand. You can skip them, they're no Abelard and Héloïs.
If I was simply rating Keats' brilliant, passionate, warm, and heartrendingly human letters they would of course earn a 5 star rating. Not thrilled with this edition though- more footnotes and perhaps an afterword would improve it.
Some of the most beautiful ideas I've ever had the privelege of contemplating and writing about.
La Belle Sans Merci is one of my favorite poems in the book.
I saw the movie Bright Star and loved it and so I want to find out about more of the real John Keats.
That last letter to Charles Brown is so sad.
The letters of John Keats truly add a level of understanding to his poetic works that is extremely valuable. I enjoyed reading them.
Great philosophy. His letters to Fanny though, are... well, I don't think he ever got to *really* know her, you know? stuff about the Muse and all that.
