https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84732.The_Gun
This may perhaps be C.S. Forester's best novel, a non-Hornblower, standalone story.
The gun falls in with one such rough band and the story follows it through all the chaos and savagery, as new characters roll the gun to new battles and sieges, seeing in this gun perhaps a key to destroying the hated French at last.Forester paints a dark canvas worthy of Goya, and misses little of the cruelty and violence of the times, as characters come and go (or die, mostly) along the gun's progress.
This novel, and Forester's The General, are brilliant in evoking a time, place and conflict, even more so than the Hornblower series.
Then I stopped reading recreationally.Throughout "big" school, my only connection to books was whatever title was set for English lessons.
The Gun was one of the last set books before my final exam in English Literature.
Casting my eyes around the lawn at the books, I picked up the only one which remotely promised entertaining distraction from boring revision, and I did something that we never did once in class, when studying prose: I started reading the first sentence on page one, chapter one.Any prejudice I may have harboured towards literature fell away.
Before discovering the gun the guerillos can merely harry the French garrisons supply lines but with it they are more able to take the battle to the garrisons themselves.
For this reason the story is told somewhat along the lines of a history textbook and a rather dry with little zip because of it.Before reading this I knew very little about the Peninsula War so at least my knowledge of that conflict has broadened a little more, that alone made it an interesting book but I'm afraid only an average one IMHO.
Wow, is this a boring narrative written for the post WWII adolescent market. All narrative, little dramatic story telling. The main character is a giant bronze gun that Spanish partisans use to slaughter the French Infantry. Forester wrote a bad story, yet, nevertheless, he really knows how to tell a story. Skip this one.
A classic of military historical fiction, an old school good book. Forester influenced Bernard Cornwall in writing Sharpe, but Forester's books, though fewer, are better.
This is a book about the French Invasions of Spain and a cannon used throughout the war by several Spanish armies and rebels.
It is a story about war and the massacres that it brings to the lives of the men who fight for freedom and the invaders who want more power.
The only woman in the book appears in the last three pages...Overall it is a good book, specially if the reader wants to know more about Spain or the French Invasions of the Iberian Peninsula.
Brief novel about the triumphs of an eighteen-pound siege gun as it passes from guerilla to guerilla, inspiring a Spanish rebellion on the plains against the tyrant Napoleon. From the pen of C.S. Forester, best known for his Horatio Hornblower books, "The Gun" demonstrates that Forester is as good on land as he is upon the seas. For those who insist it's not a Forester book without a ship, well -- there is a naval scene.
Another book that I read after seeing the movie as a youngster. The book was better but the movie was enjoyable.
It is indeed a historical novel. With so much advancements in military around, cant imagine the difference a single 18 pounder can contribute to altering the history. I wish Carlos had more sense. If Jorge can exhibit maturity, i thought Forester could have been kinder to Carlos :) But yes, the message was clear.
Saturday Play R4Mike Walker adapts C S Forester's gripping guerrilla warfare story set in Napoleonic Spain.
Made famous by Hollywood as The Pride and the Passion.blurberoonies - Partisan groups under charismatic leaders wage a desperate war in which no quarter is given by either side.
Throughout the story, the gun changes the lives of those who fight each other to the death in order to gain control of it.
The writer C S Forester was famous for his tales of adventure and military crusades, most notably the Hornblower series.
Mike Walker has written innumerable radio plays, and won a clutch of awards, including a Sony, BAFTA and Writers Guild Award.
While the story was rather exciting, it ended cut of sharply and spontaneously.
Maybe I will like the idea of this sort of ending tomorrow, but right now it just seems wrong.
I needed that.Overall, this was a quite nice story.
This is the sort of book with no literary value, but an interesting story to catch your attention and imagination.
I liked the idea that the main character of the book is the gun.
People around it change one by one but the gun remains.
And that the story was rather dry and historical.
Those who have enjoyed some of Forester's more popular works, notably the Hornblower series will probably be a bit disappointed in this book, set in Spain during the Napoleonic occupation and having almost no naval content.
The story line had potential -- a ragtag assembly of untrained and ill-equipped rebels challenging and harassing the mightiest imperial army the world had yet seen -- and the series of desperate battles are dramatic enough.
But the level of butchery tends to overshadow the story line and Forester has clearly not brought his best talents to the task in this one.
The story focuses on a big bronze eighteen-pounder cannon that Spanish guerrillas steal from French forces during the Peninsular War and use to great effect on various campaigns.
The battle scenes are very well done -- very typically Forester in that regard -- but overall I found this book more bereft of humour than his other works.
I also think it would have been advisable to do some preliminary reading on the Peninsular War before starting; had I done that beforehand, I may have derived more enjoyment from this book.
Mike Walker adapts C S Forester's gripping guerrilla warfare story set in Napoleonic Spain.
Made famous by Hollywood as The Pride and the Passion.Partisan groups under charismatic leaders wage a desperate war in which no quarter is given by either side.
Throughout the story, the gun changes the lives of those who fight each other to the death in order to gain control of it.The Gun is a companion piece to The Gun Goes to Hollywood, which tells the story behind the Hollywood version, which was directed by Stanley Kramer and starred Cary Grant, Frank Sinatra and Sophia Loren.
A novel for lovers of the Hornblower series.
One chapter within this novel certainly reflects Hornblower, set for a chapter on a frigate.
Perhaps because of the Hornblower series I feel that CS Forester is underestimated.
This novel, The Gun, is a very cleverly written piece where the inaminate object becomes the cenral character.
I recently read Buchan's 39 Steps, great novel which was a set book in school when I was 12.
I do feel that The Gun would have been a far better quality novel to read.
I wonder if modern schools would consider it as a classic novel?
After the richness of the Hornblower series, I found this story somewhat dry. There just was not enough energy in it. The star of the story is a big bronze eighteen-pounder cannon that Spanish guerrillas steal from French forces during the Peninsular War. The effects that The Gun has on the lives of the freedom fighters is a study but I never became highly enthusiastic.
An interesting discussion of the Spanish insurgency against Bonaparte. The Gun provides a link between several different types of insurgents in a way that probably would never happen in reality, but it exposes to the reader to the undertones of the insurgency in a unique way.
Hornblower's chronicler preceded his more famous creation with this land-based tale of the Peninsular war, following a gorgeous siege engine as it wrecks walls and lives across the mountains and plains of Spain.
A short, gritty Peninsular War novel, similar in subject matter to Death to the French. A good read if you ever find yourself thinking that war could be glamourous -- in fact almost any C. S. Forester is an antidote.
The idea of making a gun as the main character was quite good and in my opinion innovative. However, I found the characters (human ones) quite plain and flat. I did not like the book actually too much. I found it quite boring.
A book thought provoking read. Not exactly my kind of book and yet I found myself unable to put it down until I'd finished it.
Read so long ago - seems it is only available in hardbound now - try the library - great human struggle book - in a war
An almost documentary style look at guerrilla warfare in Spain during the Napoleonic War.
Not my kind of thing - too much fighting!
One of my favorite Forester Napoleon era novels. Have reread multiple times.
They made a rather mediocre motion picture of this book staring Cary Grant and Frank Sinatra.....
Set in Spain during the Napoleonic Peninsula War. This book started off a little slow but held my interest. It gradually got more exciting as it went on.
DNF - I got through the first 110 pages but it was a struggle so I gave up. Too many other books were calling.
