https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19161891-roughneck
Reviewed in conjunction with link: La Douleur.Sometimes you read a book that makes you feel ashamed of your life, every time you thought you were unlucky or that you deserve more or that you should get more.
She is no friend of de Gaulle, who sounds like a right creep the way she tells it.It turned out that being ashamed of America in the Depression wasn’t the half of it.Lately I seem to keep on – completely coincidentally – reading books that pair each other in some significant way and here again, it’s happened.
Jim Thompson wrote this memoir in the '50s about being a young man in the Depression years (he was born in 1906). Thompson had always been a writer, but was distracted during these tough times by the need of food etc. This book covers his life up to writing his first novel (After Dark, My Sweet? It doesnt say, but that's listed as such elsewhere), in his mid thirties. There were great parts in this, but there were times when it felt a bit odd and disjointed.
This memoir by Jim Thompson, written in the 1950s, is about his struggles to survive during the Great Depression.
Thompson wrote many crime thrillers in his later career, but his life's experiences are just as interesting as anything he wrote in fiction.
He wrote about nearly starving during the Great Depression and riding the rails to try to find a job.
It helped me to realize what life was like at that time.
One thing I found a little weird was how little time devoted to his wife and family.
A decent memoir of young Mr. Thompson's experiences during the great depression. Kind of read like Bukowski, at times, but less poetic and more blunt. A decent read, and a very interesting look into the background of one of the very best Noir writers. Kind of a perfect bathroom book, you can pick it up, read a few pages and put it down for awhile and not feel like you missed anything.
His anecdotes in this part of the book aren't great, except for the one where he's almost murdered for his car on a California highway.The book ends just as he's establishing himself as a novelist, which is a shame as I'd've liked to read more about that part of his life.Jim Thompson trying to tender his resignation from the debt collection business after a mark drops a hog on him:(view spoiler)[ He was sitting so close that his legs pressed against mine; he had also leaned forward, gripping the arms of my chair.
Second only to The Killer Inside Me in Thompson's works. Its not a mystery, but a true life (a true hard life thriller). The details of this book keep popping up in my mind, and occasionally popping up in other author's books. This is good stuff. Gritty stuff, told smoothly.
Sequel to "Bad Boy" following the author's years as an oilfield worker, among other things.
This older book is relevant now. The depression of the 1930's followed a rise in income inequality, and decreased incomes of the working class to levels that failed to maintain families. (see chart)In Roughneck, Thompson travels through the Midwest working the equivalent of today's gig economy and temp jobs, with low pay and no security or benefits. Thompson benefits from a willingness to work and intelligence, and suffers from alcoholism and criminal tendencies.This autobiography reads as a series of pulp fiction adventures, each attempt to get some money ending badly. It's tragic, it's funny, it's enjoyable.
The overall weakest of the Thompson books I've read so far, it can be generally refreshing to hear stories from the old days when writers were a lot like the Blues Men of old, desperate and screwed on a level so basic that no amount of effort will ever begin to put a dent in your troubles.
Ultimately, even more than it's a series of stories about Jim Thompson's life, the book ends up being a portrait of the hard life, where no one cares and nothing good happens to anyone.
I really need to actually pull the books out of the pile and start reading The Harrad Experiment, The Sterile Cuckoo, or Death Turns A Smile before they disintegrate.I've always been fan of noir writer Jim Thompson.
He came of age in the 1920's and went through the great depression, trying to survive as a writer.
No one ever gets out intact from a Thompson book, survival is the most they can desire.
The book is depressing, but shows you how someone can survive under the most desperate conditions.
Roughneck, the follow-up to Thompson's Bad Boy (1953), picks up where the first chunk of his autobiography left off by tracing the author's path from hard-scrabble day laborer to paid writer.
And just like Bad Boy, Roughneck takes an anecdotal approach, with each chapter acting as a slightly exaggerated Grandpa Simpson-esque tale about getting by during The Great Depression.
Roughneck ends abruptly with the death of Thompson's father, which doesn't give this collection of stories a satisfying ending, but this stopping point provides some insight into just how much this event haunted him (his father died in a sanitarium while Jim was on a bender).
A little dated -- okay, a lot dated -- but an interesting series of vignettes about Jim Thompson and his life.
A must read for Thompson fans.
Thompson details riding the rails, working as an oil man, a few odd publishing jobs, and so on.
A lot of it reads as bit of a gloss, because Thompson wants to portray his alcoholism and morality in the best light.
All in all, an odd, hazy look into Thompson's life.
You just know it had to be a lot more dark than what we get here.
This was one of the books I read for the Let's Talk About It book group "Oklahoma--the Thirties." I wasn't excited at all about the book and was glad it was short.
Strangely enough, I liked it.
Maybe because I wasn't expecting to.
Thompson was a very hardscrabble writer living in the time of the Depression.
This is a series of short stories about those days before his first novel was published.
It wasn't an uplifting read, but every time I almost gave up on him, something happened to redeem him.
This book was part of the "LET'S TALK ABOUT IT OKLAHOMA EXPERIENCE: THE 1930's" Discussion group.
I loved the book but hated the ending.
I enjoyed having to opportunity to hear about Oklahoma during the depression.
I imagined my father living with the events that were described in this book and wondered if he knew Jim Thompson.
The adventures were sad yet funny as told by Mr. Thompson.
The writing was so descriptive that you could see a picture of the event in your mind.
I was glad it was selected for the discussion group and glad I had the opportunity to read it.
Rating: Soft 4.
As a previous reviewer mentioned, it's reminiscent of On the Road.
I'll add George Orwell's Down and Out In Paris and London to the comparisons.It's a bit like a short story collection, with the parts being better than the whole.
There's an unevenness to it, from chapter to chapter, but it's still easily readable.
I've chosen to classify it as biographical, but not as non-fiction.
Infer from that what you wish.
Note: I have read a few of his novels.
If he had just been a random writer to me, I might have been less interested in this book.
Part biography, part fiction, but it's tough to tell where he draws the line. This is pulp writer Jim Thompson's sort-of-life story, where he works in a variety of jobs (mortician's assistant, newspaper writer, oil fields, etc.) and trying to keep his and his family's heads above water while continually writing and trying to make it big. Engrossing, although the ending wasn't so much of a conclusion as just a dead stop. I think his out-and-out fiction is much better.
Gives the Thompson fan a little insight into the kind of life that enabled the author to write as he did. Without setting out to, he lived through a succession of events & jobs that provided a unique background for the consummate crime writer. Not essential for the casual fan, but a quick read and recommended for the Thompson completist.
oh Jim Thompson you never seem to let me down. This collection of "semi-autobiographical" stories was a quick read. Thompson has a way of making the insane & absurd seem so normal, believable, and true, that I found myself wondering how much of this was actually embellished and how much of it was understated. It's interesting to see the seeds of other novels in these stories, as well.
Jim Thompson lays out his life in short terse sentences without apologies and very little moralizing, just trying to make ends meet in very tough times along with a cigarette a drink and a touch of humour here and there.Highly recommended.
You get what you pay for I guess. "Selected Stories from Jim Thompson's life, told by the author". Some are downright hilarious, some are ordinary and borderline miserable. Still, great insight on how a man like this came to revolutionize noir. I appreciated it, but I'm sure his novels are better.
At the end of Bad Boy i was left wanting more, and this is it. By the end of Roughneck you have a general picture of Thompson the man - he doesn't let you see more than you need to, but there are many moments of surprise. Together with Bad Boy they make a 5-star life story of a 5-star man.
A mildly-entertaining Thompson autobiography...though it may in fact be pure fiction. Who knows and who cares; it reads like a Thompson novel, and that's good enough for me. Engaging enough to keep me for the duration of its 180 pages.
Kinda sorta the sequel to "Bad Boy" and reminiscent of Bukowski's "Factotum" where he recalls all the crummy jobs he had to toil at before penning his brilliant noir classics. I worked a lot of similar gigs that he did = misery loves company.
You read a Jim Thompson novel and wonder why he is so dark, then you read his autobio and say oh, that's why. Incredible story of (barely) surviving the depression as a writer and a ne'er do well. Intense. (and short!)I just re-read it, which is unusual for me. As good the second time.
My library suggested Jim Thompson's mysteries. I grabbed this and only later realized it was an autobiography. A good read. Now looking forward to reading his fiction.
this is the semi-true semi-passed on autobio bio book. read this after you are done reading thompson books, because it kind of has the seeds for a lot of his other books in it.
Random book I read #45768-B.
The only thing better than his novels, which are universally enjoyable, is reading this autobiography and realizing that his real life was far more interesting.
This one reminded me of "On the Road". It seems like Thompson inspired Kerouac or Kerouac inspired Thompson.
So far, this book feels shockingly like John Fante's "Wait Until Spring, Bandini" and "The Road to Los Angeles" in tone. Maybe it's a generational thing.
