https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1133489.Soldier_Ask_Not
Ohhhh, potential-squandering frustration...thy name is The Childe Cycle!!!Gordon Dickson’s superbly premised, yet underachieving Childe Cycle has been a source of teeth-gnashing, knuckle-whitening frustration for me. This disappointing, expectation larceny began while I was reading the previous novel in the series, Necromancer, and then continued, and became even more pronounced, as I was reading this installment. In order to provide context for the source of my reading angst, I want to provide
In order to provide context for the source of my reading angst, I want to provide some back story on the series because it is the wonderful ideas and potential for awesomeness that Dickson created that cause its failings to burn like lemon juice upon my soul.
NOTE: subtract one "t" from above.Unfortunately, for all of the promise of the universe Dickson has created and the interesting philosophical themes explored in these stories, I have not yet been able to rate either Necromancer or this book higher than 3 stars.
So this is probably a common thing in any science fiction story–describing the evolution of the universe so many years into the future.
I’m paying attention!I also really liked a particular few paragraphs where the main character describes why loving a certain woman is different than any of the relationships he’s had in the past.
What he realizes about this new love is that not only does she believe in his castle, but she’s already built one of her own.
Storyline: 2/5Characters: 4/5Writing Style: 4/5World: 4/5Dickson weaves ambience like few others.
What Dickson was aiming for was never going to be accomplished in 320 pages.
To get to his ending he has to skip over years of activity of his main character, leaving a promise that interesting maturation and perfection did indeed occur in that time.
Compared to the science fiction of later years, however, this will be viewed by some critically as not following through on its promises, not developing the story or character fully, for not working through and making everything fit in the end.
I read just about the entire Childe Cycle many years ago, but this was the first I read. I even have - somewhere among my messy bookshelves - the original magazine in which part of it was first published.  It's not standard military SF. The characters and their treatment of each other are more important than the fighting. The universe is fascinating, with the human race split up into specialised areas - warriors, mystics, scientists, etc. The main character's wish for revenge could have disastrous consequences for the entire human race.I found it very powerful reading.A classic of SF.
The third book in the (supersoldier) Dorsai saga.
Instead, it stars a "normal" human (Tam) but one who has a psychological skill for manipulating events.
After his brother in law is executed by a soldier from the Friendlies Worlds, it does not look good for the good side.
The Friendlies are mis-named since their only export is soldiers with religious fanactism like today's' Isis warriors.
In this future the main export each world has is the skills of their people.
One of the super soldiers, a Dorsai, does play a prominent role in the latter part of the book.
A harder read than I remembered.
Basically a logic driven book written parallel to Dorsai!.
But in this book, the main character Tam, is a brat.
It's hard being in his head page after page.
He does dumb things then blames the world.
And again there is an ornamental woman, Lisa, to rescue and reward him.
And yet the book pulls together right at the very end.
This is a book about belief, but I'm not sure that it's right or true.
It does try very hard.
Given when it was written, I'm not sure it was intentional or what it would mean.
Originally a short story (that won the Hugo award) and later re-written as the third installment of the Childe Cycle, Soldier, Ask Not is heavy with themes of faith and philosophy and treads a thin line between logic and faith – never condemning nor promoting one or the other.The title – Soldier, Ask Not – hints at the main themes of the book; the constant struggle between duty and responsibility; between blind obedience and discretion; between destiny and choice.Our main character – Tam Olyn – was brought up with a nihilistic ethos that he has spent his life trying to shrug off.
Clearly I'm not done with these. There's something both sparse and torridly overwritten at once about this odd, humourless book. The "science" behind it barely holds together and the story, a twisty tale of revenge sought through Machiavellian manoeuvres of politics and manipulation, would function perfectly well without it. But the universe of the splinter worlds compels and somehow, even the awful Friendlies extract a modicum of sympathy. On to Tactics of Mistake, the first one I read back when I was sixteen.
This book is really deep, and in the good way, not the annoying hipster way. It's a great exploration of humanity in general, with some really interesting bits about the press.Tam is a very interesting character, and the 14 worlds, with their Splintered evolution, is a great, unique setting. There's not much hard sci fi to be found (none, in fact), but that's totally not the point here. And if one of the characters is alot like Hari Seldon, I consider that a tribute :)
7/10In this installment of Dickson's Childe Cycle, we learn about the Final Encyclopedia and the man seemingly destined to lead it, Tam Olyn. Turning his heart and unique powers toward "Destruct", Tam roams the galaxy and works his way up the ranks of Newsman's Guild, all the while manipulating people and events as he seeks a very personal revenge with interstellar consequences.Fast-paced action with philosophical interludes, the book is both interesting and thought-provoking.
Of course, I read this many many years ago. I have fond memories of the whole Dorsai set of books. However, I find this very difficult to re-read and finally quit trying. The main character was extremely obnoxious and all the females were extremely "feminine" -- very annoying. The ideas are still interesting, though. We'll see how the re-read of the others goes.
excellentAlthough Dorsai! Was by far my favorite book in the series, this book also was very good, told in the point of view of someone with less than pure motives. Great ending
A good solid SciFi that starts and ends focused on "I".
4 1/2 starsI am still 2 books behind schedule and probably going to lose more ground in the next couple of months.
This was the first book written in that universe.
As another reviewer noted, "Soldier, Ask Not" was originally a short story.
And then Dickson went beyond that and wrote the other stories of the cycle.
Some of the others are quite weak in characterization, and reading them feels to me like hard work, while Dickson fills in the imagined future history but without the passion of Soldier Ask Not. Others are pretty good, again IMO, because the development of the character is what is most important to me.
It also draws themes (directly and indirectly) from Necromancer and really helps to bind the two together in a cohesive whole.Dickson did a great job of making me root for a protagonist who really seemed more like an antagonist; he was more sympathetic than I expected and I found myself not only curious about his eventual plans, but rooting for his success.Dorsai!, Necromancer, and Soldier, Ask Not are all parts of a whole that illustrate Dickson's thesis about humanity and humanity's evolution; even though I'd originally wanted to know more about Donal Graeme's (the protagonist of Dorsai!) story, I was fairly content with the story that Dickson wanted to tell here about humanity.I can't say, however, that I came away from this trilogy feeling incredibly impressed or moved.
Dickson's "Soldier, Ask Not (Childe Cycle Book 3)" intertwines nicely with some of the events portrayed in the first book of the series ("Dorsai!
(Childe Cycle Book 1)"), it suffers from two fairly big faults.
First, the main character is a jerk.
IOW, there's an awful lot of the main character's (who I do not like at all) "reasoning" and thoughts cluttering up the landscape: it's a much slower book than the previous two books.
So, I'm going to drop my rating down a star from that of those books to a mere OK 3 stars out of 5.
A rather unrelated sequel to Tactics of Mistake, though exploring the same themes of human endeavour and separation. Dickson's protagonist is pompous and arrogant, so there's little empathy generated, but the milieu remains fascinating.
She later marries someone else and Tam, in an effort to protect his brother-in-law, instead leads him into danger and gets him killed.Tam has growing powers of psychological insight and persuasion and with access to politicians and high-ranking military officers of both sides of conflicts (being an impartial Newsman) he is able to manipulate people into starting a war which would see the Friendly planets destroyed.However, Padma the Exotic seems to know more about Tam Olyn than he does himself.As in ‘Dune’ there is a mixture of science and mysticism, and indeed the concept of human evolution toward a greater being.
Soldier, Ask Not has a really interesting premise that's not fully explored. It's kind of a unique book actually, with themes of war, religion, sociology, and psychology. If I have one critic of Gordon R. Dickson it's that his books never quite live up to their potential. That's really a shame in this case; Soldier, Ask Not had the potential to be one of my favorites. Still a good book though
Tam Olyn is an angry young Earth person with a mind to join the officially neutral/impartial reporters guild, but he is wooed by the director of a giant encyclopedia project and told he is one of only a few humans who can effect real power over the future development of humanity.
I believe that I have other books from this universe (and author), that I will likely read in the future...
Generally recommended if you like Dune or Foundation.
En este sentido he encontrado puntos en común con otra obra del género, El Juego de Ender, ya que ambos protagonistas poseen inteligencias excepcionales y en ambos casos se encuentran rodeados por personas que quieren sacar provecho de sus habilidades.
También encontré puntos en común con Fundación, de Asimov (y supongo que también con otras muchas obras del género), un libro escrito casi veinte años antes.
No obstante, las finalidades son diferentes en ambos libros: en Fundación se intenta que la crisis interplanetaria vea reducida su longitud, mientras que en el libro de Dickson se pretende que esta Enciclopedia establezca algunas conexiones del conocimiento hasta entonces no visibles.
He vows to destroy the entire culture of the Friendlies' faith-based planets.There are two things that make this novel the best individual work of the Childe Cycle of books.
First, the main character Tam Olyn is one of the "supermen" of the series, but he is neither good nor invincible nor enlightened.
However by the end of the book Dickson is able to show them deeply enough so that as a whole they become, perhaps not necessarily sympathetic, but at least worthy of respect.Sadly, as usual the main female character is a one-dimensional bit of fluff.
But Tam Olyn's sister is a two-dimensional bit of fluff in her handful of pages, so that is an improvement.
-¡Shai Dorsai!... bueno, en realidad no del todo...- Género. Ciencia-Ficción. Lo que nos cuenta. Tam Olyn es un joven periodista, un hombre de la Vieja Tierra, que visita la Enciclopedia Final con su hermana y sufre un extraño episodio que despierta el interés de los responsables del proyecto y lo identifica como un Aislado, un tipo de persona poco común cuyas acciones y comportamientos marcan el devenir de la Humanidad. Segundo volumen del Ciclo (serie) Dorsai.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Cliffs: Dude-narrator was raised by an asshole, turns into an asshole himself. Receives near omnipotent ability to mindfuck people into doing what he wants. His ambition (and his semi-guilt for dissing his sister) winds up getting his brother-in-law killed by way of a war crime. The dude-narrator vows revenge against religious cult that did the slaughter. He's told not to go through with the revenge plot. He does anyway, it fails. He feels bad, then feels okay. The End. TL;DNR: Not a good way to get into Gordon R Dickson's stuff, or into any science fiction, for that matter.

A really interesting book that I enjoyed more and more and then the final chapter was quite impressive and has made me want to re-read it some time knowing where it is all going. It is quite short but it took me a while as I was reading several books. It is about the future and splinter groups now live on different planets: warriors, mystics, scientists. But there are also those from Earth and New Earth and they are different. Tam Olyn is one of those. Classic SciFi!
An interesting look deeper inside the galactic civilization of man. A lot of threads coming together from the previous books, too. A little too much philosophy & psychology for me this time, though. I've read it a couple of times before, so found myself skimming some of it.On to Tactics of Mistake, the next in the series. It's an old favorite.
This novel is too ambitious for the talent of its writer. Parts of the story are good, and the plot sheds some light on incidents in _Dorsai!_, as well as looks forward to _The Final Encyclopedia_; however, it suffers from a problem common to much of the work of sf authors of the 1960s: a sacrifice of good solid plotting and characterization to overly aestheticized (and in this case, sentimental) prose.
I can't say this story exactly engrossed me, but it was just about acceptable bath-time reading... I found the slightly religious undertow a little disturbing - I kept wondering if it was a modern re-write of part of the New Testament!I have read other GRD books and enjoyed them, not so this one tho.
Desde luego la historia y su protagonista son mucho más complejos que en el primer libro del Ciclo Dorsai. El juego, la política, los pensamientos enrevesados de Tam (el protagonista) dificultan la fluidez de la lectura... pero que decir, está a la altura de Gordon R. Dickson y me alegro de haberlo leido.
