https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1079482.The_Colditz_Story
What a book, What a wonderful story, it's really deserve 5 stars.My copy was translated to Arabic ( My native language ).
I think my expectations of this book made it not as good as I hoped it would be. Then again I didnt quite know what to expect of it. I think there couldve been lesser people introduced, they all got quite mixed up for me. Then again, it was not that much about the characters, the book. It was about POWs (prisoner of war) during second world war in a castle an a town called Colditz. It was about what had actually happened, it did not feel like a book wanting to tell a great story, but a book that
I was amazed by the things these POWs came up with to help people try their escapes.
If anyone wants to read what it was like in Colditz, or rather about the escape attempts, this does tell you a lot about them!
Maybe then I could´ve been more excited and thus given the book 4 stars.I felt like it took really long for me to finish this book, I think I just picked it up at a wrong time.
The book starts before he goes to Colditz.All this snooping and test escape plans are getting me quite excited!
Feel like playing a little escape from colditz!
An absolute classic. If you've any interest in WW2 at all then this is compulsory reading.
An amazing story of courage, daring and at times damn right lunacy. This is a must for anyone with a passion for history. I loved every nail biting moment of this book, so much so I watched all of the bbc series after finishing the book with friends to try and quench my thirst for more Colditz thrills. I also recently stayed at the castle, now a youth hostel and thoroughly enjoyed coming face to face with the places mentioned in the book.
Fascinating story told in a typically understated English style.
It is a long time since I read this book, but I know it was good and that it is invaluable for anyone wanting to know about POW conditions in German stalags during WWII. Recommended.
Great book on the horror of WW II and the ingenuity, compassion and bravery of those held prisoner and some of the escapes despite the odds.
You will feel their pain, discomfort, lack of food, as well as their joy over a game of football or their ecstasy after a successful escape.Pity too the poor German officers and guards, who had the unenviable task of managing hundreds of fit young men, all of whom had nothing to do but plan their escape.
They had to try to keep them happy whilst maintaining discipline and trying to keep their Nazi overlords contented; a thankless task that saw quite a bit of understanding and appreciation between prisoners and guards.This is an exciting, entertaining read and a first hand historical account of a fascinating and concentrated event in history, hence five stars.This is a shorter version of Pat Reid's book.
This is a really good first hand account of life at Colditz and of the various escape attempts made by the prisoners there. The stiff upper lip-ness throughout is amazing and humbling at the same time. It has been said that the British were at their best during World War 2, and I believe it. That is not to say though, that it was just the jolly old Brits who were mentioned in the book, and it's fair to say that the supreme courage written about here is most definitely not exclusively belonging to one nationality.
2.5 stars, to rate this more accurately. Good story but I personally think that P. R. Reid could have done better by hiring a good editor. The story feels highly disjointed and it is really difficult even to remember names of most of the characters. Nevertheless, this is a good inclusion to my world war non-fiction shelf.
A reread; first read many years ago. Exciting and concise. The focus is on escapes and escape plans, you won't find many other details about the people or prison life. I picked it up again after watching the 2005 miniseries Colditz, which had some insight into the difficulties faced by POWs but was totally derailed by a terrible soap opera/love triangle.
During World War II Allied prisoners of war were sent to the German prison Colditz. Pat Reid was designated as the "escape officer." He made his own successful escape in 1942. This is the story of his attempts.
this is a amazing book
lol do u know that more people escaped from colditz than any other ww2 pow camp(bet that anoyed preim!!) :-) GO PAT REID
An exciting book about a fantastic adventure. A good shelf-mate to "The Great Escape" and "The Wooden Horse".
(I don't know if it is this popular today, but it is noticeable that the public libraries I use still have a Second World War section which is much larger than the rest of history put together, so similar tales continue to hold the imagination of the British public.) This means that it will have been read by any voracious male (it almost certainly appeals more to boys) reader of my age or older, and many more will have seen the TV show (I was a few years too young to see it myself.) The story told by Reid is very memorable, and I found myself remembering details I hadn't read for thirty years.Reid immortalises a particular kind of heroics, which is also one stereotypically associated with the products of the British public school system.
Jolly good old boys, what a good old time it was. Spam and raisins for dinner, rowdy shenanigans at Appel. We sure did show those gerry goons!This book reads like Hogans' Heroes, until it doesn't. Usually when a ruddy gerry goon shoots one of our good old boys in the back. Stiff upper lip and all that my good man, nothing can stop these plucky Brits from giving their deviled best sir!
I had not read much on Colditz so this was a great introduction to the camp and it's prisoners. The prisoners sent here were the ones who persisted in trying to escape other camps. Unfortunately, Colditz was not inescapable either. It was so interesting reading about all the ways these prisoners devised to escape. Their ingenuity was awe inspiring.
I knew this would be good before I picked it up.Better than expected, though. Reid conveys the frustration, boredom and fear very well.If you think war is all 'derring do' and excitement read this.Also try "The Tunnel" by Eric Williams which has much the same effect.
Colditz kasteel was een plek waar er meer bewakers waren dan krijgsgevangen.
Maar in de periode 40-42 zijn er toch meer dan 300 pogingen gedaan waaronder de geslaagde poging van de auteur zelf.
Het krijgt 4 sterren omdat het één van de weinige boeken is dat vertelt over de krijgsgevangen en die ook nog is geschreven door een overlevende.
In 1953 werd het vervolg geschreven The Latter days en in 1984 kwam het volledige verhaal naar buiten onder de titel Colditz; The full story.
Naast schrijver van 2 boeken en officier in het Britse leger was Reid ook nog gamedesigner.
This is not the first book I've read on War or even about escaping (far from it).
First, it's a true account of POWs, with their many & varied escapes from internment camps during the Second World War, written by s man who was there.
(How does mail even get through when two sides are at war!?) I also found it interesting that the escaping was inspired by accounts from those who did it during the First World War. Also that the author felt it prudent not to give too much away.
WWII memoirs are a special genre unto themselves, and as far as I am concerned, this is the king of the genre.
Colditz Castle was the German POW camp for escape artists.
Pat Reid, the author, arrived there in 1940 after a failed escape attempt from another POW camp and left in 1942 through a kitchen window late at night.
One escape tunnel was literally dug from beneath the Commandant's desk.
And by the end of the war the remaining prisoners had constructed a full-size glider in the castle's attic.
Absolutely fascinating.
And well written, too, which is a big plus for these sorts of memoirs.
In this book Reid takes us through his experiences as a Prisoner of War from when he was captured at Dunkirk through to his eventual escape and return to Britain.
Along the way we learn about assorted escape attempts - some by Reid some by others - as well as the techniques and tactics used by both the prisoners and German guards.
All this is made all the more thrilling by the fact that Reid really was the Escape Officer at Colditz.
Absolutely gripping and really interesting.
Awesome. I want to escape ;) It is nothing to compare what want & ingenuity can do. Its also telling to that "guide" for the future of any reader (allied or "other") just how an escapee planned and distracted their captors... I read this as a one volume as the other part was(a separately published book): Latter Days At Colditz; which described in more detail the individuals the author had come to know in the camp. Its was very interesting and also emotional, to feel the authors words of want for freedom & logic therein.
Very good true story about Colditz By P R Reid.
How there lives were within colditz castle after being taken POW'S during WW2.
Hundreds of Men in one place trapped with a desire to get out by any means possible, then best option was to tunnel out but this was no easy task, so they had to dig the tunnels when possible, or try and walk out the camp, past German guards who patrolled the gates and castle 24 hours a day.seeing to do the impossible, they made it possible some men did others didn't.Great true story highly recommend if you love WW2 escape stories.
This is a classic "escape" story. Colditz Castle was a German P.O.W. camp for repeat escapees. It had been used by the Germans in WWI - it is a real castle - and had been a secure camp.The Allied soldiers who were brought there were creative and dedicated to escape. Their story is very readable, entertaining and a cautionary tale.
Having visited Colditz, a crumbling castle int he Wild Wild East and havin stared at the tiny tins of spam, the tunnels, the old photographs and the old caretaker who offered to sell the place for a cent I had to reread this story of the escape committes and their tribulations. Different breed of men.
There's a reason prison breaks make for such great movies. The story's all action. But, pinned to the page, in flavourless summary narrative, this particular prison break becomes yawningly dull.Add to this a plummy-voiced audiobook reader who grated on my nerves, and I couldn't even make it to the halfway point.
This might be an odd thing to say about a war memoir, but it reads as though it was written for publication during the war as propaganda rather than as a considered first-hand historical account; yet the foreword/afterword make it clear that this is not so. Perhaps I ought to read the 80s update for comparison at some stage.
A thrilling story that delves into the heart of Colditz, the un-escape-able German Prisoner of War Camp in the Second World War. But this story, told by Lieutenant Patrick Reid, shows the truth behind the camp and the extraordinary efforts to escape by both him and his fellow officers. His own successful escape was one of the most daring and memorable efforts of the War.
