https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6610620-conan-the-barbarian
This is a collection of novellas about the swashbuckling adventures of the wandering Barbarian Conan.
Conan's instincts are uncivilized which means he is aware of things that lesser mortals (including the feisty lady pirate Valeria) cannot detect.
And so he roves over the ancient world, seeking loot, adventure and amorous conquests.
There are clear references to the depravity of dark-skinned people.
There are many references to the muscles of men and the erotic allurements of women; as with James Bond, most females, despite initial resistance, succumb to the macho mystique of Conan.
If it were not for Robert E Howard we would not have seen Arnold play the part of Conan.
He really is Conan, just like I imagined he would look like in the book.
Anyhow Arnie should have made more of these films; Conan The Invincible never came to fruition; as he had the perfect physique for the part.
I suppose the wrinkly old Arnie of today could play Conan The Great Great Grandfather, lol!
If you like high adventure and lots of swordplay then I strongly recommend the Conan books , and the Arnie films too.🐯👍
It’s not ‘the Complete Conan’ of twenty-one stories (you’d need the lovely Gollancz leather bound Black Library edition for that), but instead a select grouping of eight novella/novelettes, one article setting out the fictional world of Conan, one piece of verse (‘Cimmeria’) and a brief paragraph biography of Howard.
The tales included here are: The Tower of the Elephant; Rogues in the House; The Frost Giant’s Daughter; Queen of the Black Coast; A Witch Shall Be Born; The People of the Black Circle; Red Nails; Beyond the Black River; and the background article for the stories, The Hyborian Age.The selection is generally a good one.

It's nice to see a complete compilation like this. It would have gotten 5 stars if the publisher had spent a little more time looking for typos and had hired a cover artist who had a passing familiarity with human anatomy. Seriously, Conan looks like his shoulders are hunched way too far forward and I don't know what the heck is going on with his feet.

Curiously, this edition was published in Thailand, which is likely cheaper, but I wonder if they are also profiting by the fact that in most countries besides America, Howard's stories recently entered the public domain, which isn't likely to happen here as long as the Mickey Mouse Laws keep getting passed.What marks this book as particularly cheap are the slapdash illustrations, one of which is featured on the cover in blotchy color.
I was reading a few stories in here, but now that I've found my Del Rey, I think I'll switch to that.My Fantasy Book Suggestions
"Conan" is an anthology of the original stories by Robert E.
For fans of "Conan the Barbarian", this anthology establishes the foundation of the "sword and sorcery" genre we have come to associate with Conan, as well as the terms and verbage.
Howard also gives a brief history of how the Hyborean Age came into being as part of the foreword, which I found to be very enlightening.
The Conan books that came later drew heavily on the precedents established by Howard (Robert Jordon in particular comes to mind).
I enjoyed this book immensely and heartily recommend it.

Klasyka. Poszczególne opowiadania są schematyczne, kiczowate, ale na swój sposób urocze. W ostatnich opowiadaniach fabuła staje się coraz bardziej złożona, pojawiają się postacie (też kobiece!), które są równoprawnymi bohaterami. Można zauważyć jak Robert Howard z każdym kolejnym opowiadaniem rozwijał swój warsztat. Miło spędziłem czas z Conanem, który nie okazał się tępym osiłkiem, lecz bacznym obserwatorem otaczającego go świata.
Love the Conan books, a must read for anyone mystified by the films, the character, the games..
Конан е един от любимите ми герои, на чиито приключения се радвам от дете. За пръв път обаче чета самия първоизточник на тези приключения - самия Хауърд. Въпреки огромната дистанция във времето съм очарован. Хауърд звучи така сякаш е написал Конан преди няколко години, а не преди почти век.Оригинален сюжет, забързано действие, един уникален свят.... и самия Конан Варварина, разбира се. Това ни дава Робърт Хауърд в тази мъничка книжка.
And yet ...For all their many flaws, Howard's Conan stories (this edition covers nine of the later tales) are still being read for good reason.
While some of the prose is deepest purple and much of the dialogue exposition, he often writes beautifully and the stories overflow with imagination.As for Conan himself, all he's interested in is women, killing and loot - but sex, greed and violence are primary drivers of humanity.
Howard seems disturbingly obsessed with race, and given his times (Texas in the 1920s and '30s) and the pulp publications he was writing for it isn't surprising the stories are stuffed with ugly stereotypes.However, if you can hold your nose, there is a lot to enjoy.
Written before the works of Tolkien and other masters of the fantasy genre, these are great stories for those who want to enjoy a primeval fantasy world in which life, although definitely not easier, is simpler.As far as I am aware, the handful of black ink illustrations throughout the book were not included when the stories were originally published, but provide a 'rough around the edges' feel which is appropriate for these works.The book cover statement "The original, unabridged adventures of the world's greatest fantasy here" should be interpreted to mean "A selection of nine original, unabridged adventures of the world's greatest fantasy hero, and one essay." While the book runs over 500 pages and the stories are excellent, there are over fifteen more Conan stories by Robert E.
I was prepared to not like this book when I picked it up.
I expected the sexism of the 1930s and have probably seen way too much cover art featuring scantily clad women with unrealistic figures!
The cover art on this edition didn't do Conan any favours--it is not at all the way that I imagined him.
And although Conan was interested in them as women, he was quite determined to win their favours, as opposed to overpowering them.
I found Howard's use of modern and mythological place & character names to be evocative--I felt like I knew the world, which was obviously not the current earth we inhabit.
I picked up this 'primer' collection of Conan stories for free at the 2014 Eastercon mostly because I've never read any Howard before and felt that it was a missing part of genre education.The stories are a mixed bunch of shorts, novelettes and novellas, along with a poem and a background article on the Hyborian age (the mythical age of the world in which the stories are set).
Due to the archetypical nature of Conan and his world, the stories actually felt quite familiar, given everything that has come afterwards.
Widać tutaj także jak postać Conana została strywializowana przez wszelkiego rodzaju filmowe adaptacje.
Z czystym sumieniem mogę powiedzieć, że stałem się fanem Conana Barbarzyńcy.I’m really surprised how much fun I was having reading this book.
Despite its large size and some repetitive scheme which we can see in most of the stories, it appeared to be an extraordinary fantasy book.
We can also see how the main hero, Conan, was trivialized in every film adaption.
With a clear conscience I can say that I became a fan of Conan The Barbarian.
This is a must read for fans of the sword and sorcery genre, as well as fans of the Conan franchise.
Reading the original stories has really changed my perspective on the genre and Conan himself.
You can really see the roots of the genre here laid out.
Its fun to see how the style has changed so much over the decades.Most of my contact with Conan has been through the comic books, as well as the movies.
The newest movie doesn't seem so far off the mark now, either.
It was most definitely aimed more at the original stories, rather than the later ones.
Want some dinosaurs, wizards and bloody warfare in the same story?
Want to have a racist cult of slaves that are tolerated by their masters?
Done!The Conan stories are pretty solidly entertaining.
They aren't doing anything fancy or new, nor would they try to.
I wonder if Howard was TRYING to be be racist or just relying on cultural cliches.
With the (possibly) exception of Valeria in "Red Nails", the women are pretty much all sluts or totally helpless vehicles for Conan's 'affection'.
Troubling, but Howard's market was men who were looking for fantasy gratification.
Product of the times/market.Either way, still entertaining enough.
Edisi novel yang saya miliki dan baca ini merupakan edisi yang diterbitkan sempena tayangan filem Conan The Barbarian pada tahun 2011. Lebih tepat lagi,buku ini merupakan koleksi cerita-cerita pendek yang pernah diterbitkan di dalam beberapa medium penerbitan sebelumnya pada sekitar tahun 1930-an.Novel ini boleh dianggap sebagai sebuah pengenalan yang baik mengenai Conan,suatu watak kepahlawanan Sword and Sorcery yang amat popular. Apabila nama Conan disebut,mungkin ada di kalangan kita yang teringat babak-babak aksi berpedang yang dilakonkan oleh aktor terkenal Hollywood Arnold Schwarzenegger.
A collection of short stories about the world of Conan, where the women are lithe and shapely, the villains vile and degenerate, and Conan is Conan. Low fantasy with a hint of cosmic horror. If you ever wondered what Lovecraft would look like if the main character was a sword-wielding engine of destruction, Conan is your man.The writing style is impossible to take seriously -- one could play a drinking game with the author's favourite adverbs and adjectives -- but thoroughly enjoyable if you don't.
Prior to reading this collection I was only familiar with the Conan of the movies and the Conan the Adventurer cartoon from the early 90’s. Robert E Howard’s Conan is a very different character, and a much more interesting and complex one at that. I’m glad I took the time to delve into the original Conan, in spite of the terrible cover art.The tales are pulpy, and generally short, and are remarkably similar to Vance’s Dying Earth in tone if not style. While Vance tends toward more grandiose language, Howard tends to keep things simpler.
Interesting to read (some) of the story that spawned the movies and cartoons that fueled a part of my adolescence. I would have never bet after seeing Arnold Schwarzenegger and Jason Momoah's performances that Robert Howard could be so litterate. I'm also surprised that even though Conan is obbiously every inch the muscled hero the movies made him out to be, he was rarely the main character and most stories are told from the point of view of someone who saved/kidnapped or otherwise influenced by the Cimmerian.A great read for anyone who has ever shown an interest in fantasy genre.
Entertaining! "Queen of the Black Coast" and "Red Nails," a pirate story and a tale set in a creepy completely enclosed city, respectively, were my favorites. (It helps that--while nearly all the stories were not half as misogynistic as I expected, considering when the stories were written--these two had some of the best leading ladies. Howard definitely lets his female pirates run ruthless.) The racism throughout is something awful, though. I recommend reading the opening essay about the Hyborian Age; if you can make it through that, you can make it through the other stories.
Ten stories of the greatest barbarian of them all, Conan the Cimmerian. Neither sword nor sorcerer can stop him as he fights and loves his way across the Ancient Hyborian world, rising from thief to King of Aquilonia. I have the Arnie movies but have not seen the newest one yet.When your brain is tired of serious literature, try this as a relaxant. Robert E Howard invented the sword and sorcery genre and has yet to be matched.
A grandfather in the pulp genre, this book is racist, awful to female kind, and somewhat redundant; BUT! its a 1930s story about an invincible barbarian that travels the ancient world fighting wizards and saving women that love to have their shirts torn off. Really I'd be disappointed if there was some hidden message that dealt with the social ideas of the time.
This shit is great, if you're willing to look past his over-use of the word "ejaculated". It was kind of awesome to, on occasion, think "wow, this was written in the 30s" and I imagine it was pretty nasty for those days - lots of tits and stabbing and the like. Pretty fun.
I have read these stories over and over. Great way to spend a morning. Turned on to Conan when I was 12yrs old and have every story written by Robert E. Howard and every book written by others in tribute to his characters. Always fun to re-read.
The first adventure of Conan and my second favorite book of the series. This is not as good as 'Conan the Conqueror', which I think is the only Conan novel completed by Robert E. Howard in his lifetime. However this story talks about the earlier years of Conan's life from his childhood.
Gets two stars instead of one only because of my love for the Milius (and "Ahnold") film.I encountered the same problems (boredom, some embarrassment) with this volume as I did when I read (most of) the first three John Carter of Mars stories.
