https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/494320.In_My_Hands
It was not a bird, and it was not in a wheat field, but you can't understand what it was yet."When I understood what the bird was, it was one of the most chilling things that I have ever read.This is the story of a Catholic girl in Poland.
She is placed as a servant in a Nazi officers' club.She sees the murder of Jews in the ghetto and decides to help.
Real heros are imperfect people who are able to look beyond their own survival to help someone else.
Real devils are imperfect people who allow themselves to be numb to the pain they inflict.
I think this paragraph is the most eloquent description of why speaking about the Holocaust was/is so difficult for the survivors.
At the time, to speak of it seemed worse than sacrilege: We had witnessed a thing so terrible that it acquired a dreadful holiness.
It was not possible to say with words what we had witnessed, and so we kept it safely guarded until the time we could bring it out, and show it to others, and say, 'Behold.
You should read this memoir about what Irene Gut, a Catholic Polish girl of only seventeen, did to save others’ lives.
The war years, the invasion of that part of Poland where she lived first by the Russians, then the Nazis and then the Russians again, is the primary focus of the book.
This is Irene Gut Opdyke’s story, as she told it to author Jennifer Armstrong.
I want you to read this book.
Even during the worst of times people do make active choices determining what kind of person they want to be.
In My Hands in one of those books that you read and you can't get it out of your mind.
Irene's story is both an amazing adventure and an heroic tale of a woman who saved the lives of others by risking her own.
The entire book is filled with adventure and suspense.
Irene Gut Opdyke is one of those rare people who make others want to strive to do their best and be their best.
I thank the world there are people like Irene here to spread their light and inspiration throughout the land.
(I consider this show of kindness in the face of the preceding circumstances a testament to the power of goodness and forgiveness, and absolutely breathtaking.)As regards Irene finally speaking out about her story: Her daughter, Janina knew nothing of her mother's experiences until her teenage years, when they received a phone call from an individual claiming to be "randomly" polling people to find out if they thought the Holocaust actually happened or if they believed it was a ploy on the part of the Jews to gain sympathy.
This is the first Holocaust memoir I had read from a Polish point of view, and I was truly captivated.
I have never read a story about one person having so much good fortune and bad luck all at the same time, it was almost like it was straight out of Hollywood.
The things she was subjected to do, the things she risked and her uncompromising need to do what was right despite the consequences makes it nearly impossible to set this book down.
If you need reassurance that despite the evils in the world, there is still good left in humanity, read this book.
It's straightforward, spare, even.This is her description of the purging of the Poland of Jews (I believe we're speaking of the ghettos.) The gates were dragged open, and the Jewish prisoners were forced out through a gauntlet, while the guards beat at them with their rifle butts.
An old man, tottering with a cane, was not fast enough, and a guard shot him on the spot.
With his other hand he aimed his pistol, and the bird plummeted to the ground beside its screaming mother, and the officer shot the mother, too.
Onvan : In My Hands: Memories of a Holocaust Rescuer - Nevisande : Irene Gut Opdyke - ISBN : 553494112 - ISBN13 : 9780553494112 - Dar 304 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 1992
First - this is a true story as told by Irene Gut Opdyke (a Catholic Polish girl) with Jennifer Armstrong as the Author.
I bought this book at a popular used book store not knowing anything about the story or how it was rated.
It was what I expected - mostly a 4 and a 5 rated book.
Irene is a big time hero.
BIG TIME.
What she went through and did to save a good hand full of Jews from the Nazies was mind boggling.
To read her story reads like a really good fiction book.
IN MY HANDS is a worthwhile story to read.
I have dyslexia. You never have read every testemony or story about world war II and its heros. Irene Gut Opdyke is a Polish nurse who rescuit Jews and aided them. This is her story. Keep in mind that she only was 17 when the war started. Remarkable story.

I got to this memoir after my daughter recently saw and raved about the NY play ('Irena's Vow') based on the book.'In My Hands' was written by a 23 year old Polish a nursing student after surviving six years of separation from her family, rapes by Russian soldiers and several years of servitude to German officers.But it is not another Holocaust book.
It's the story of an adolescent who decides that what's happening to the Jews is sickening.
Then she protects Jews who she is supervising in a German controlled hotel/headquarters.
She becomes his mistress to protect these 12 Jews and a baby.
It's hard to believe that this story is one of thousands - some written, some unwritten.
I honestly didn't want to put this book down - it's well written and really helps you see how beautiful life was in Poland for most people before the war, and how one day was normal and the next day everything they knew had changed.
My heart was broken time and time again for this young girl.
Throughout this book, though, I could see the tender mercies of the Lord helping and blessing this young girl and her friends.
In My Hands: Memories of a Holocaust Rescuer, by Irene Gut Opdyke"In My Hands" starts with the author writing to the reader that if she tried to tell you what really happened during the war, told you everything at once, you wouldn't understand it.
And as you come to understand what the bird really is, your heart will break, and you will know just what Irene means.
Irene lived through several lifetimes during the war, and while I am around the same age as her, I couldn't imagine surviving anything that she went through.
I picked up this book, one because of my love of history and specifically WWII and the time of the Holocaust, but also because of the different perspective it gave.
Some, after reading this book may say, well, I wouldn't have done some of those things she would have, but I'm not so sure.
I took a Jewish Holocaust history class from my most favorite professor at BYU and he had proposed the question one time during class, would you compromise your morality in order to save either your own children or other people you were protecting?
While working as the housekeeper/food service assistant for this German Major at a hotel that houses a number of German soldiers, she puts her own life at risk to help a number of Jews who have been assigned by the Germans to work under her (slave labor of course).
The Major eventually moves to a villa where she hides twelve Jews (including the six at the hotel) right under his very feet in his basement that was it's own living space.
I am always fascinated by these stories of people who went against the 'authority' of their time, especially the Nazi's as they were so brutal, unpredictable and harsh.
A few days ago White Nationalists celebrated the election of Donald Trump with cheers of "Hail Trump!" accompanied by Nazi salutes in Washington, D.C. http://www.theatlantic.com/politics/a...Irene is recognized as a Righteous Among the Nations by the state of Israel for saving the lives of 12 Jews during the Holocaust.
This memoire chronicles the small acts of courage and caring she took in the early days of WWII that helped prepare her for the ultimate risks she took to save innocent lives.
Or, we can choose to follow the example of Irene by looking for opportunities to perform small, meaningful act of kindness to religious, ethnic, or sexual minorities.
I was mainly the storey that ripped me through this book, the writing was good, some of her words were so perfect...
She has lived an incredible life.Seems like an important storey for people to be reading these days as much as ever...
Thoughts of the Cronulla riots make me feel like beating some people in the head with this book ...
which is that other message (we should probably all know any way) that is brutally clear in the book, violence...
Any ways, good book!
"There was a bird flushed up from the wheat fields, disappearing in a blur if wings against the sun, and then a gunshot and it fell to the earth"I'm not sure if enjoyed is the correct word to describe this book, but I'm very glad I read it. It describes how a 17 year old Polish girl, Irene Gut, became a Holocaust rescuer and how she helped save several Jewish families by hiding them and sneaking them food in the woods, and how she hid another group in a German major's house.

This was an amazing book.
The bravery, selflessness, and courage of Irene Gutowna is awe-inspiring.
She was just a teen when she started fighting for what's right and helping Jews, literally right under the nose of a German major.
She sacrificed so much to help the innocent victims and she became a victim herself.
Every book about Nazi victims is tragic and it's still shocking what Hitler did even this many years later.
It will always be shocking and it's important to keep writing and talking about it, especially the way things are changing in the United States at this time.
In Irena's previous job, she met a number of Jews working in the basement for the owner of the house and decided to help them escape death and torture.
However, from reading this memoir I can now take small aspects of Irena's experiences and learn to help people who are truly in need of the assistance.
I view Irena as a true inspiration and hope that everyone can read (or hear) her story and become more aware of the tales of survival during the Holocaust and know that the holocaust DID happen and that there are people's stories to prove that these horrific events are not fiction.
Irene dared to challenge the evil of the Germans, so she began hiding Jewish workers, one at a time, into unimaginable places in the officer's house.
This book was definitely unique in the way that it told about everything that was going on in Irene's head and all of the things that she still vividly remembered.
While you read a book like this one, there is no way of avoiding the suspense that goes with it.
You always feel like she's going to get caught sneaking some Jewish people into her master's house and it worries you.
I think this is a good book for people who like thrills, it is an awesome Holocaust story.
As an enthusiast of Jew related stories and WW2, it always breaks my heart to read something like what Irene had experienced.It has been decades since the Holocaust happened, but the memories of the brutality and extermination of Jews are refreshed to the new generation through the accounts of Irene.I cannot compare the experience of Irene to what Ellie Wesel experienced in the hands of the German officers.
Nevertheless, Ellie and Irene were both victims of the war, ruthless war.How can I be happy for what they experienced?
I am happy that I am able to read and feel somehow their sufferings.
This book is just amazing.
Irene Opdyke is a hero.
Irene was a non-Jew helping to save the lives of a select group of Jews.
Irene physically saved just a handful of Jews, but her work and efforts ultimately saved many, many more.
We know that there were other Germans who also placed themselves in danger to save Jews and they are all unsung heroes.
So if you want to read an amazing story of just one of those heroes, this is the book to read.
I don't think I could add any more to what has been already said about this book in previous reviews.
The first lines of the story draw you in like a magnet: "There was a bird flushed up from the wheat fields, disappearing in a blur of wings against the sun, and then there was a gunshot and it fell to the earth.
It was not a bird, and it was not in the wheat field, but you can't understand what it was yet." The story is full of suspense, agony, humor, bravery, compassion, survival, love lost and love gained, and it's a true story!
I found this book through the "Stuff you missed in history" podcast. Its really an astonishing read, as evidenced by the fact that I swallowed it all while hanging around the house on New Year's Day. Its the story of the "female Oscar Schindler," and it deserves every bit of that title.
Excellent book - the reader is quite good as well. An amazing story of a young girl who did whatever she could to save people from execution. The accounts of the bombings she survived left me breathless. Mesmerizing story of a courageous girl.
Well, that made me cry. It’s an odd thing, to try and review a Holocaust memoir. This one started off a bit slowly - Irene’s childhood is written more as a reflection of who she would become rather than who she was, it felt to me. Her heroism once the war started was incredible and the risks she took amazing. It’s an important story and one I think everyone should hear.
An inspirational memoir of Irene Gut Opdyke's heroic experiences in her country (Poland) during WWII when it was occupied in turn by Germany and The Soviet Union. Brought to life by ghostwriter Jennifer Armstrong and narrated by Hope Davis.
