https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/424125.The_Crisis_of_the_Modern_World

Most translated works are difficult reads, but this topic resonated deep with me.
It made me re-think the way that I see life.
How can we call straying far from God "progress?" Everything in this world has become so secular (perhaps with the intention of finding neutrality), but everything is so profane.
We live in a world that actually is suspicious when we say the name of God. I bow in deep respect for this author and for his poignant and sober literary expression.
Also, for his perennial philosophy.
If you think this review is biased, you are absolutely right.
This is in fact how the present age fits neatly into that last phase of Kali Yuga as Guénon understands it, namely that the darkness of materialism will ultimately bring the whole world into its dominion (long before `globalization' and `end of history' became common lingo), marking finally the end of an era, i.e. the end of a human cycle, or Manvantara, where `the wheel stops turning.' This is when chaos, conflict and strife will erupt as never before, a time known in Christianity as the reign of the Antichrist and in Islam as the era of Dajjal.There is a way out - for the establishment of a spiritual elite to lead the masses out of this darkness.
این کتاب را بالاخره خوندم. زوری که پشت سرم بود نوشتن مقالهای برای کلاس دکتر ذکرگو است، و البته این کتاب را بهعنوان مقدمهای برای خواندن کتاب سیطرهی کمیت خواندم. اول ترجمهای دیگه از این کتاب را داشتم، اما آن ترجمه خیلی سخت بود، و من از اپلیکیشن فیدیبو ترجمهی آقای حسن عزیزی را خریدم که خیلی ترجمهی راحتتری بود. البته متن همچنان سنگینه. خیلی از صحبتهایی را که رنه گنون در این کتاب میکنه ما شاید خیلی شنیده باشیم، اما نکته اینه که رنه گنون در ارائهی راهحل خیلی احتیاط میکنه و اساساً به راهحلهای همگانی و
نکته‌ی دیگه درباره‌ی این کتاب رنه گنون اینه که فکر رنه گنون منسجمه و با اینکه در مقابل پیشرفت‌های ادعایی غرب وا نمی‌ده، و به‌هیچ‌صورتی آن‌ها را تایید نمی‌کنه، کم هم نمی‌آره که «آره، فلان پشرفت غربی را می‌شه به خدمت گرفت».
از نظر رنه گنون، غرب در عمل‌گرایی بسیار پیشرفت کرده، اما کل را فراموش کرده.
نهایت کم‌آوردن گنون شاید آنجا باشه که می‌گه شاید شرقی‌ها بتونن با همین رویکرد غربی بر غرب غلبه کنند، اما بعد باید رویکرد غربی را کنار بگذارند و به تفکر شرقی خودشان برگردند.این‌طور که من فهمیدم، رویکرد شرقی چون «کلی» است، نمود خارجی خاصی هم نداره.
Frenchy destroys modernist soybois in 3 easy steps.1. Reject modernism2. Return to God3. Bring back the monarchy
That being said, Guenon elucidates the pure theory in a way that Evola can't, which makes him valuable.The main draw of this book is its diagnosis of modernity as an effect of a particular idea that manifests as democracy and materialism, among other things.
Guenon's ideas are unpopular; his conclusions are the kind of thing that many contemporary philosophers take as a reductio of premises, but making a non-circular argument against him is difficult because he's prepared to accept some highly unfashionable (but still coherent) conclusions.
Bleak, honest and delightful. So very, very ahead of its time/prescient. Must revisit soon.
Regardless of the fact that this could be a cult book, by far one of the most interesting insights into our human current human condition and why and how we got here.
Guenon'un aykırı bir düşünür olduğunu söylemek hafif kaçar.
O yüzden ortaya yeni ve doğru bir şey koymanın imkanı yoktur.
Öyle ki ona göre modern düşünce şeytanidir ve modern bilim hakikatin inkarından ibarettir.
yüzyıla kadar, doğunun saldırıda ve batının savunmada olduğu dönemi unutmuş gibi görünüyor.Bilime gelirsek, bilimin ancak geleneği, dini ve metafiziği referans aldığı sürece kıymetli olduğunu, aksi takdirde değersiz ve batıl olduğunu söylüyor.
Yani ona göre kimya ve astronomi hakiki bilim olan simya ve astrolojinin bozulmuş ve batıl halidir.
Yani şeyhler ve mollaların yönettiği bir sistemden bahsediyor.Guenon'un fikirleri aykırı olduğu kadar tehlikeli de.
L’œuvre est une critique du modernisme visant la restauration de la civilisation traditionnelle,tell
I agreed much with what Guenon had to say concerning scienticism, the degradation of the Intellect, progress and materialism.
Guenon would agree with Plato in claiming that the leader should be a, "philosopher king" of sorts.
The problem I have with it though is that a leader needs a lot more skill for being a leader other than having the, "correct" beliefs and or having a sharp intellect.
Other than disagreeing with his political views, he did humanity a favor talking about the materialization of both science and modern life.
I simultaneously agree and disagree with the author.
Till here I agree completely.
And here I completed disagree.
It's not worth mentioning the ridiculous hindu dogmatism here, but even though modern society is flawed doesn't mean the traditional and the ancient were any better!
Surely democracy is flawed but is it really worse than sacred monarchy!
I agree fully with the pessimistic outlook on todays society but instead of calling to go back to ancient traditions I prefer to see the negative aspects as fundamental flaws in life itself that cannot be overcome nor tolerated.
A strange book. The author deserves a prize for pedantry. His mouth 'runneth over'. The language is not technical, obscurantist, or difficult but he simply takes needless pages and pages to articulate rather simple, commonsense concepts which could be succinctly summed up in a paragraph or two. Here's an example: 'the East has a tradition of spirituality, the West has a tradition of industry'. (Jeepers, really? Gosh-golly..) 'The East has a tradition of contemplation, the West has a tradition of action'.  Forty pages of verbiage just stating and restating and re-re-stating this very obvious and un-startling news. Odd, odd, book.
İşte paylaşabileceğim bir kaç güzel alıntı;"René Guénon, temel hakikat geleneğini dinlerin önüne ve üstüne yerleştiriyordu.
Aynı şekilde, burada da çağdaş tarihçiler, Galyalıları ormanlarda yaşayan vahşîler olarak tasvir etmek için kanıt yokluğundan yararlanmışlardır." (s.47)"İşte modern çağın en çok göze çarpan özelliği de budur:" diye başlayan, olguların maddileşmesi ve sınırsızca (dağılıp) parçalanması üzerine durulmuş." (s.
83, s.84)"...genellikle sanıldığı gibi, astroloji modern astronomi, sim ya da modern kimya olmuştur, demek yanlış olur: eğer astronomi ve modern kimya belli bir anlamda gerçekten astroloji ve simyadan kaynaklanıyorsa, iddia edildiği gibi, bir "evrim" (évolution) yada "ilerleme" (progrès) sonucu değil, aksine bir yozlaşma sonucu böyledir." (s.99)"...eğer bir düşünce doğruysa, bu düşünce onu anlayabilen herkese eşit şekilde ait olur; aksine yanlışsa, onu icat etmekle kendi kendine övünmeye gerek yoktur.
J'ai préféré le relire une seconde fois ce livre pour m'imprégner de tout le bouleversement des valeurs contemporaines "modernes" qu'il condamne afin de refonder un nouveau paradigme basé sur la - jamais définie - Tradition primordiale.Il s'attache d'abord à renverser notre paradigme courant de "progrès", c'est-à-dire de lecture optimiste de l'histoire caractéristique de notre focalisation autour de la réussite matérielle, en rappelant qu'à l'inverse, toutes les traditions spirituelles anciennes orientales ont prêté à notre ère le pire stade possible de notre monde, celui-ci aboutissant même au chaos et à sa fin.
Le génie visionnaire de René Guénon. Le chapitre réfutant la démocratie, la loi de la majorité, l'acceptation légitime d'une élite qui n'est que le résultat d'un manque d'intellectualité pure, est juste fascinant.
He claims that the Sacred tradition of the main religions are obviously from a divine source and that the fall of man represents the separation from the divine and the birth of individuality.
The author distinguishes from the Western mentality and the oriental one because while the first one has left behind the religious approach and has adopted the humanism, the second one still maintains the link with the primordial tradition.
In the author's opinion, humanism is the source of decadency in the occidental world.
All things considered, in Guenon's view, it's better if a society would work on the traditional principles.
Un'analisi lucida e incredibilmente attuale nonostante sia stata scritta ormai un secolo fa, di ciò che è il mondo moderno, inteso non come banalmente "contemporaneo" ma come l'evolversi di un pensiero (nella fattispecie quello occidentale) che nel susseguirsi dei secoli è disceso lungo una china che sarà difficile risalire, quella per cui si privilegia la quantità sulla qualità, l'immanente sull'eterno, il materiale sullo spirituale. Come i mostri ancestrali che divorano se stessi, il mondo moderno si sta divorando da secoli e nell'osservarne la fine bisogna prepararsi a un nuovo inizio.
Magnifique. Encore une fois René guenon me donne une mechante baffe ! la crise du monde moderne est une crise essentiellement causée par la perte du principe. Les humains se sont écartés de la Tradition primordiale et ont oublié l'intelligence la vraie pour fonder un monde base sur la rationalité seule et sur un humanisme mensonger !
a dense, dry, demanding book of profound interest and great illumination. if you cotton to him (many will not), there's quite a lot more where this one came from. a life-changer.
In spite it was written a long time ago, this book shows us all the problems of the modern world. A must read for people concerned with our future.
Brilliant analysis of the spiritual and metaphysical crisis of western civilization and the value shift that western culture found itself in following the so called enlightenment era.
The author, Rene Guenon, hates the present world and he wants it to change.
The reason he hates the present world (circa 1927, and final edition in 1946, but the world only having gotten worse since then) is because profane science and reason has led us astray from order, higher thoughts, etc.
In his view, authority has (had, by 1927) broken down and he blames science, individualism/humanism and materialism.
But the reason authority had broken down was because the old governments, particularly Germany, Russia and Austria-Hungary, but not limited to them, which stood for such authority, were unable to prevent, but instead contributed to, a slaughter on a scale never before seen (i.e., The First World War).
Guénon näki saman kuin minä näen tänään.
Tietysti hänen kohtaamansa rappio, materialismi ja antitraditionalismi olivat kovin keveitä niiden nykyisiin muotoihin verrattuna, mutta samat myrskyt syöksähtelivät maan kamaran yllä, samat aaveet vaelsivat Euroopassa."Moderniteetin" kritiikissään sinällään Guénon ei (tietääkseni) tarjoa mullistavaa uutta, edes 20-luvulle.
Kuitenkin hän pitää nykytilannetta poikkeuksena, modernia kulttuuria anomaliana maailmanhistoriassa.
Tässä hän korostaa, ettei hänen antimoderniutensa ole missään nimessä antilänsimaisuutta.
Monet Guénonin huomiot toistuvat niin Nietzschen ja Marcusen kuin Adornon, Horkheimerin ja Weilinkin kirjoituksissa.
Guénonin omaperäisyys oli hänen ehdottamassaan ratkaisussa: paluussa Perinteeseen.
Hän tuntuu ymmärtävän paljon, paljon sellaista mitä minä en ymmärrä.
Ainakin hän varoittaa minua.
Guénonin sanoissa on jotain sellaista.
My opinion of this book is pretty negative but I put 3 stars because of the importance Guénon has for the Traditionalist movement (I'm definitely not a traditionalist so I am biased)I came across this text while reading Devil's Bargain, the analysis of the Bannon-Trump relationship during the 2016 election.
I started writing a review that talked of some concepts and ideas mentioned but then erased a good chunk of it.
I guess Guénon is a must-read in terms of Tradionalist literature but in my opinion Against the Modern World (Mark Sedgwick) gives a pretty good overview without having to go through this ramble.
"Humanism was the first form of what has subsequently become contemporary secularism; and, owing to its desire to reduce everything to the measure of man as an end in himself, modern civilization has sunk stage by stage until it has reached the level of the lowest elements in man and aims at little more than satisfying the needs inherent in the material side of his nature, an aim that is in any case quite illusory since it constantly creates more artificial needs than it can satisfy." P17 Ch. 1 The Dark Age"There are those today which speak of a 'defence' of the West, which is odd, to say the least, considering that it is the West, as we shall see later on, that is threatening to submerge the whole of mankind in the whirlpool of its own confused activity; odd, we say, and completely unjustified if they mean, and they seem to (despite certain reservations), that this defense is to be against the East, for the true East has no thought of attacking or dominating anybody, and asks no more than to be left in independence and tranquillity-surely not an unreasonable demand" p 31.
The premises upon which this book stands are poorly justified within. As such, the book as a whole falls flat. I have been told that this book is the second in a trilogy. The category of "the East" is poorly defined. He should do more to illustrate the relation between what he terms "primordial tradition" the extant traditions of the world, and thereby, his understanding of how these extant traditions relate to one another. Relevant to this is the following quote: In any case, one thing is certa
The premises upon which this book stands are poorly justified within.
In any case, one thing is certain, and that is that Easterners are a menace to nobody and do not dream of invading the West in any way whatsoever: they have enough to do for the moment in defending themselves against European oppression, which threatens now to assail even their minds; and it is curious, to say the least, to see the aggressors taking up the pose of victims.
I'm not saying Easterners do have some plan to invade the West, but I wonder how Guénon would have characterized the wars between Westerners and the various Caliphates.
Well, I would describe myself as gnostic, not agnostic, so there you have it, both the author and I are concerned with truth.
Fine, however, this is no excuse for the complete lack of reflection on his own epistemologies, his vagueness concerning his own concepts (Truth, Learning, East, West) and his rather unconstructive, merely critizising and deconstructive voice.
It doesn't help either that he seemed to believe in a kind of golden past longe gone by, where "Traditions" still were uphold i.e. an enlightened elite ruled the right rule, commiting the fallacy of historizising transcendental subjects for which past and future don't play a role but merely you're own capability of gnostic realization.
This is a true gem, an escape from the illusions of modernity, and one of the deepest insights by the genius.
