https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18788.Novels_1930_1935
So this time I'm taking the hit, because for some reason I just couldn't focus on Pylon.
I know it had interesting and complex characters.
I know it had an artful and subtle narrative style.
So why couldn't I sit down and lose myself in it?
I don't know.
I do know i found it distracting that Faulkner decided to set the novel in New Orleans, but then decided to replace all the place-names with New-Orleans-sounding alternatives.
I don't know...[note - no review of As I Lay Dying, Sanctuary and Light in August here, because I read them elsewhere - if you care...]
Im just reading Sanctuary, already read As I Lay Dying and Light in August, my library didn't have Sanctuary on its own
Anse's stubborn adherence to principles above all else points to the folly we humans encounter when we focus on the tree and overlook the surrounding forest.Next comes "Sanctuary", which was a quick read and very challenging, given the treatment of Temple Drake among others.
To my mind, the castration of Joe is inevitable in this narrative.Not being either American or Southern - slavery in Canada certainly existed far longer than it should have and we have our own share of racism most recently in our country's treatment of Aboriginal people - I feel like a bystander watching much of this scarring legacy play out.
This second collection of Faulkner's novels is utterly fantastic, finding the author coming into full grasp of his literary powers. From the perspective shifting brilliance of As I Lay Dying to the stupendous characterization of Pylon, all four of these novels are essential reading.
If there's a writer of prose who can produce more poetic language, I would like to know about her/him.
Squatting, Dewey Dell's wet dress shapes for the dead eyes of three blind men those mammalian ludicrosities which are the horizons and the valleys of the earth."I suppose I would take a gentle exception to the reviewer who described this as a funny novel, in that it describes a journey that is fraught with struggle.
I am hard-pressed to see how I could describe it as funny without setting myself above the Bundrens somehow, which a story like this makes me ever-less-inclined to do.
Faulkner is a brilliant writer and is very important to American literature.
I read "As I Lay Dying" and found it quite a challenge.
It is difficult to get past the dialect, and the fact that fifteen different characters narrate the story.
Plus, the events are not always chronological, nor do they always make sense.
This book is supposed to be funny - the smell of the corpse the family doesn't seem to be bothered by, Anse's (the father) excuse for not working - that he sweats too much, and the new set of teeth that he is so set on getting.
just finished as i lay dying.[july 17,'12] read several years back; reread was even better. just started light in aug. have to intersperse w/others so it'll be a slow go.moving along w light in aug,,mar 10. Finished the other day. What a story teller he was. desvergnes was in ox w photo at museum. brief visit w wife but no opportunity to say hello to him. missed opportunity i'm sure i'll regret.Compelling like no other of his I've read. Of this volume I lack Pylon. Am looking for something to read w pat for our vaca to folly.
Ummm. Well I finished it, that is saying something. I only read As I Lay Dying not this whole book.I kind of liked it but it was hard to read, like homework. It was sometimes hard to follow and most importantly it was very very sad. They style of every chapter in a different voice was challenging for me, I almost had to write out a family tree to keep track of who was who. The vernacular was tricky to follow as well. Kind of like reading poetry or Shakespeare. I am glad I read it.
More a review of Library of America's "packaging." We seem to have a lot of Faulkner, and the one off paper backs and even a big hardback collection by another publisher just look like shit next to this version (not like they're in any kind of order on the shelves). At some point we'll probably throw out the duplicates, but it's Faulkner. Big ups for the built in bookmark - very functional!!! And proceeds go to the NEA.
I just finished rereading "As I Lay Dying" after watching James Franco's film treatment. The depths of this cursed family is unmatched in literature I've read. It is a journey through Hell with no breath of redemption possible.
Great collection of early Faulkner novels. As I Lay Dying and Light in August are deservedly classics, while Sanctuary is well written but pretty average genre fiction and Pylon is one of his weakest efforts.
Great collection. Pylon, one of Faulkner's least popular novels, is one of the weirder books I've ever read. But it's still Faulkner, and still brilliant and compelling. And unlike the writing of anyone else.
Now that I've read all this Faulkner, for some reason I now have a greater appreciation for Herman Melville as well. My favorite novel of these four is Light in August. I would highly recommend it.
Sanctuary: These books by Faulkner make me feel like I need to go back to the start as soon as I've finished. The first trip through, I am learning the characters, the surroundings and quirks of the locale. Only when I have taken in the plot can I concentrate on style and meaning.
I just read As I Lay Dying. Will return for the other novels.
I read Sanctuary.
Hard to pick one Faulkner, but I'll take this one with my two favorite novels of his: As I Lay Dying and Light in August.
See reviews for individual titles.
Well worth reading.
Um, Faulkner is not my cup of tea thus far... I really didn't like the plot, characters, or time the story was set in.
Raw
Here you have 2 great novels, a very good novel (Sanctuary), and one I didn't bother to read (Pylon). The ones that are good are so good that this book gets 5 stars from me.
Magnificent and strange.
Incredible reading experience. I took so much out of reading Faulkner's major novels chronologically. The more I think about it, As I Lay Dying is without a doubt my favorite Faulkner novel.
As I Lay Dying by William Faulkner (1992)
Hard to read.
