https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/824734.Dinosaurs_Before_Dark
Reread for nostalgia's sake. it's so weird how when i was a kid they would take me an hour to read but now i can go through it in 20 minutes
Divan serijal knjiga za malu decu...
o avanturama brata i sestre koji u svojoj kučici na drvetu pronalaze knjigu i listajući je prenose se u drugo vreme i u tom vremenu doživljavaju avanture...
pa malo idu u prošlost a malo i u budućnost i u svakoj knjizi deca se lepo zabave i ponešto novo nauče...
Serijal je veliki hit u svetu već godinama, doživeo je mnoga izdanja a i naša deca su te knjige veoma lepo prihvatila...
Autorka je divna, imali smo prilike da se družimo s njom davne 2005.
tokom sajma dečje knjige u Bolonji...
Ovaj serijal toplo preporučujem svoj deci uzrasta od 7-11 godina...
Dinosaurs Before Dark (Magic Tree House Series #1) by Mary Pope Osborne,A good transition into chapter books for the new reader.While formulaic, predictable, and not particularly clever, this series serves the purpose of providing adventure at a fast moving pace for the new to chapter book set.
This would also be a good read aloud for a younger child.The first book in the series, Dinosaurs makes a great introduction to the set.
While missing the humor and cleverness of other books for this age group, it still delivers on action, adventure and suspense.School Library JournalGr 1-3-- This enjoyable time-travel fantasy is a successful beginning chapter book.
As an adult, I'd have to say this is not five star reading material. However, it rates five stars because my second grader eats these books up, and is getting a glimpse of loads of different places and historical events.
Beginning readerFor grades 1-3Jack and his sister Annie discover a book-filled tree house, and, when Jack opens a book about dinosaurs, discover that it can magically transport them back in time to see real dinosaurs.Organized into ten short chapters, with a full-page illustration per chapter, this is a highly appealing story for early readers.
Publisher's Weekly is enthusiastic about the book's appeal to children, and nicely points out the way Jack continues to consult the dinosaur book for information throughout the story.August 2018 - we read the first half aloud, and listened to the whole thing again on CD.
3.5 Stars The first chapter book Small-fry and I read together AND it’s one I loved when I was little so I have to round up. He was completely enthralled as hung on every word of this adventure. Each night he didn’t want me to stop reading and just wanted to know what happened yet.I was so so so bored by the repetitive sentence structure and lack of any pronouns. Also Jack is pretentious and needs to just stop trying to control Annie because she’s got this.But I guess it’s not really for me, huh?
Each one takes Jack and Annie into the pages of a new book.
They are a perfect fictional introduction to nearly any subject.For first read-aloud chapter books, they are really great too because they don't deal with school or interpersonal relationships between friends, teachers, older kids, etc.
We have had several other chapter books here, but they were above his head.
Not vocabulary (these have great vocab words), but in situation.
I also love that these have great adventures that with both a male and female protagonist and situations that both boys and girls could relate to and love.
Fun start to a fun series!
She'd been struggling with some bigger books, and she needed a burst of confidence to help her get back to where she wanted to be, so I found this book, saw how easy it was and brought it home for her.
For that, Dinosaurs in the Dark's practical use, it earns a second star (if there were no mitigating circumstances, I'd only give it one star).So why am I so offended?
I'm offended because I know talented authors, plenty of them, who can't get their stuff published, and their stuff is good stuff.
For the longest time I wasn't going to count this towards my official 2018 reading goal.
My sister and I read these all the time as children & I've collected quite a few of them over the years.
I plan on passing them down to my niece and nephew, but I thought before I did that I might as well read them one last time.
I even, admittedly, had to look up some things I hadn't known before about dinosaurs.
(Pterodactyls aren't actually dinosaurs, whodathunk?
My fiance is adamant on calling them his favorite dinosaur still.) Anyways, 3.5/5 rounded up to 4 stars cause why not.
مجموعه ی خانه ی درختی سحرآمیز نوشته ی مری پوپ آزبرن ترجمه ی محمد قصاع توسط نشر پیکان از سال 88 به بعد منتشر شده.ای مجموعه که هر جلدش یه داستان متفاوت داره درباره ی سفر زمانی یک خواهر و برادره که هربار یک برهه ی زمانی متفاوت رو تجربه می کنن و طی این داستان آموزش هایی به بچه ها داده می شه. برای همین داستانش خیلی ساده است.جلد اول درمورد سفر به دوران حیات دایناسورها و شناختن چند نوع از اونا و برخور داشتن باهاشونه.
The first book in the Magic Tree House series is an exciting beginning to the time-traveling adventures of 8 year old Jack and his 7 year old sister Annie. Osborne builds this excitement deftly, first introducing the mysterious tree house full of books that then transporting them on Jack’s inadvertent wish to see a Pteranodon in one of the books to the Cretaceous period when dinosaurs roamed the Earth. The sibling’s encounters with various dinosaurs prove heart pounding, as some of them are not
The first book in the Magic Tree House series is an exciting beginning to the time-traveling adventures of 8½ year old Jack and his 7 year old sister Annie.
Osborne builds this excitement deftly, first introducing the mysterious tree house full of books that then transporting them on Jack’s inadvertent wish to see a Pteranodon in one of the books to the Cretaceous period when dinosaurs roamed the Earth.
The scientific details of the dinosaurs as well as Jack’s notebook observations of their experiences will connect with young beginning chapter book readers who identify with science, and Annie’s impulsive explorations will appeal to the adventurous reader.
My 7 year old Grandson has not read much over the ( hectic) summer. Had to get this great little "reluctant reader" book to get us back in gear. Worked great , he's loving the story and it's perfect for starting second graders. Box set #1-4 4 stars
Eight-year-old Jack and his seven-year-old sister Annie are normal kids leading a typical life when the discovery of an enchanted tree house turns it upside down.
It's strange for Jack and Annie to find near their home a fully constructed tree house they've never seen.
An adult or older kid would regard being suddenly sent to the dinosaur era as a crisis, but magic rarely comes knocking twice at your door.
No wonder kids love Dinosaurs Before Dark.
I can't blame Jack for wondering afterward if the voyage in the magic tree house was a dream.
This is a great read for younger children and children just learning to read.Jack and Annie find a magic tree house in the woods near their house.
When Jack takes down a book about Dinosaurs and starts to read it when him and Annie are magically transported to a land filled with dinosaurs.This was a very short beginning chapter book suitable for young kids.
The story seems to be aimed a bit more at young boys because Jack is really the main character.
Definitely recommended for reading with young children, or for children who are ready to transition to reading beginning chapter books on their own.
This is hard as my son doesn't want to read "baby books" but has a rough time with chapter books.
Will they find their way home before dark?This was a fairly easy to read book though the names of the dinosaurs did trip up my son.
He had a fairly easy time keeping up with what was happening in the book and did ask some questions (like what was a magnolia).
The chapters were not overly long so it made it easy to read one or two at a time without him becoming overly bored/tired.
At the same time, students are getting exposed to great content knowledge (in this book, dinosaurs, and in future books, which integrate knowledge about things like Ancient Egypt, outer space, and the Civil War, just to name a few).
The last great thing about this series is how it increases in difficulty with each new book, and so a student can start out on the easiest (Book 1) and gradually move up to more difficult reads.
I first tried reading from Lions at Lunchtime, but quickly realized that it referred to important events and objects from this first book of the series, Dinosaurs Before Dark.
I read aloud this book to my Kindergartener, and she loved the characters and action, which moves along at a fast pace.
Content is infused naturally and memorably, making this a perfect read-aloud to inspire research.
I couldn’t help but find Osborne’s liberal use of sentence fragments extremely irritating.
When I looked ahead in the series to Lions at Lunchtime (#11) and Stage Fright on a Summer Night (#25), I noticed this feature had thankfully disappeared.
It is so popular and responsible for so many kids reading.Having said that, I, as an adult, didn't find it interesting.
A couple of things I didn't like: Mary Pope Osborne (the writer) often uses sentence fragments.
Come on, I know it is easy reading, but I was always taught not to use fragments.
Another thing is that at the end, Annie and Jack (the main characters) agree not to tell anyone(their dad, mom and teacher) about the treehouse.
It doesn't teach a good lesson for two kids to agree not to tell adults something important.
He took the matter in his own hands by asking to read 'Jack and Annie books.' A quick Google search helped me order our first set of Magic Tree House books (#1-4) and we sped through the first one in two days.
My son was enthralled with the story and tried to read ahead while I was busy making dinner.
This series is exactly what I wanted to help move us into more complicated and exciting narratives that will keep him engaged and eager to improve his reading skills.
I don't really know how to rate children's books like this one. I didn't particularly like it, but I can see the things that would make children like it. The story was imaginative and creative and when the t-rex showed up, it became scary and exciting. Mostly I felt that Annie seemed like a fun kid and Jack needed to get the stick out of his rear end.
This is the first book of a wonderful series. I read the series aloud to my kindergarten class every year. It is just right for their listening level. It is about a 2-3 grade reading level. No language or inappropriate behavior. Teaches history and geography.
“It spun faster and faster then everything was still. Absolutely still.”
The books starts off when Jack and Annie find this tree house while walking in the woods in Frog Creek.
They make it to the tree house safely until Jack realize forgot the book when he was looking at dinosaurs in the meadow area.
She feels Jack is sometimes too protective of her.The setting of this book starts off in the tree house, which is located in their hometown of Frog Creek, Pennsylvania.
The siblings work together to back it back to the tree house before the tyrannosaurus rex caught them.I would recommend this book to younger children.
Because I love Magic Tree House as much as I do, I try to recommend it to kids so that they may experience the adventures of Jack and Annie, too.Last year, I started tutoring two young children who don't really have a love of reading.
Because the book is so simply written with short, choppy sentences, it's a bit difficult to read aloud.
It's not quite as well-written as, for instance, The Baily School Kids series.I'll definitely continue reading the Magic Tree House books with the kids I tutor, and I'll continue on past that as well.
Okay, Elliott and I love these books!!
I have always read to Elliott, and so we have an amazing assortment of childrens' books.
one of the only times that I ever agreed to getting the 'toy suprise':O) This is the first book in a long series of amazing books of adventure, magic, and true and factual history!
Elliott loves them and gets them from the Library at school every week!
This brother and sister combo go on missions through time and worlds by 'wishing' on books.
The brother loves to read and do his research, while the sister is brave and adventurous!
Believe it or not, this was my first time reading a Magic Tree House book and I don't know why I didn't read these growing up. I LOVED IT. I may or may not be a dinosaur nerd, Jurassic Park is one of my all time favorites. So this was right up my alley. I can see why kids eat these up, and why there are so many in the series. Safe to say, I am late to the party. But this will not be the last I read (or recommend!! Everyone read these!)
We took this series on a car trip with my 4 year old daughter. While the stories got a bit dull for us grown ups, my daughter loved every minute of it. When we got home, she grabbed the CD's and headed straight to her room to listen to more!
Mother Read: 8/1/16Oldest Son Read July '16-Aug. '16My oldest was no big on reading until he started reading this book. It has taken awhile for us to get through it because of birthday parties and vacations to Florida but we have made it through the book. Now on to book 2.
i have never actually read these books, but i enjoyed this one a lot!
