https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/266242.Princess_Sultana_s_Daughters
شاهزاده خانم 'شرح حال واقعی شاهزاده خانمهای عربستان است که ناگزیر در پشت پردههای بسته روزگار میگذرانند .جین ساسون (نگارنده) که خود دوازده سال در کنار شاهزاده خانمهای عربستان زندگی میکرده, در این کتاب خاطرات خود را درباره محدودیتهای شاهزاده خانمهای سعودی باز میگوید .وی در این کتاب نام واقعی شاهزاده خانم را ذکر نمیکند و تنها با نام مستعار سلطانه از شخصیت مورد نظر یاد نموده, اسرار پنهانی دربار سلطنتی عربستان سعودی را شرح میدهد . محدودیتها, ازدواج دختران سیزده ساله با پیرمردان, و سنگ سار زنان در عرب
محدودیت‌ها, ازدواج دختران سیزده ساله با پیرمردان, و سنگ سار زنان در عربستان از جمله موضوعات کتاب به شمار می‌آید .کتاب شاهزاده خانم اخیرا به عنوان یکی از بهترین پانصد کتابی که از سال 1300میلادی توسط زنان به نگارش درآمده‌اند، شناخته شده است.
شاهزاده خانم کتابی است مسحورکننده و دلخراش که با عنوان کتاب پرفروش مجله نیویورک تایمز، جنبش‌های طرفداران حقوق بشر را در سراسر جهان به فعالیت واداشته است.
بیش از چهار میلیون نسخه از این کتاب در سراسر جهان به فروش رفته است و زنان را از هر گروه سنی و هر ملیتی تحت تاثیر عمیق قرار داده است.
So many of the problems described seem like they are simply the result of children growing up spoiled and without any limits and similar problems would happen in other cultures if children are allowed such latitude as they are in this home.
For example, Sultana's younger daughter becomes extremely religious and starts a group of like-minded young women determined to overthrow the monarchy and restore strict religious rule.
Despite Sultana's dislike of this behavior in her youngest daughter, the group continues to meet at her house over and over.
This book is a lot like a Chinese meal: thoroughly enjoyable at the time, you can't put your chopsticks down until its finished, but later you don't feel full and wonder at the insubstantiality of it all.This book has been called a fake.
Lots of books about women in Arab countries have that accusation leveled against them, far too many for it to be true all the time.
This book doesn't read like a fake anyway.
They weren't terribly strict in its practice and when one had stepped outside the fold to the point of endangering their lives, the family did rally round and help them.
alright, I guess?I suppose I wouldn't have enjoyed it as much as someone else might have, me being an Arab and all.I pretty much already knew all of the things related to the message this book was trying to send.I hear about these kinds of things all the time, even if it's not particularly about the princess of Saudi Arabia.I think what also put me off was the style of writing.
It was full of just random happenings of the princess's life and how they relate to her cause.It was pretty boring for me, to be honest.I actually decided to practice my reading speed on this book because I knew I wouldn't really be missing anything if I didn't get all the details.
It's hard to feel for her when you read her bragging of her expensive, vault-protected jewels, her extravagant homes all over the world, her spoilt daughter feeding luxury foods to cats and dogs, her laughing about laughing when two men died at Hajj, and her macing of her own cousin - to name but a few!It's obvious that the women in Saudi Arabia are treated as inferior to the men, but the fact remains that this is the story of a princess, someone who lives a more comfortable life than millions of people on this planet.
Although it's easy to feel sorry for many of the women she talks of in her book, I find it more difficult to feel sorry for Sultana herself.Still, it's very easy to read, and compelling enough to keep you interested through to the end.

سيده من الاسره الحاكمه تكلمت عن حياتها مع زوجها وابنائها، بشكل عام الكتاب مافيه هذيك الفائده المرجوه، مجرد امرأه ناقمه على قوانين المجتمع، اتفق معها في مسألة ان المجتمع عندنا فيه بعض القوانين اللي تساعد الرجل على ظلم المرأه لكن اختلف معها في طريقة ذكرها للدين وانه سبب للمشاكل مع انها اوردت في بعض الحالات من ان الدين براء من نظرة وفكر المجتمع، ماحبيت الكتاب توقعته بيكون هادف اكثر ، ماحبيت سلبيتها الشديده، السعوديه مثل مافيها سلبيات فيها ايجابيات وحلو نشوف الامور بوسطيه، ماحبيت تكون نظرة الغرب لنا نظرة اشمئزاز لان عندنا كثير شغلات نفتخر فيها
She tells of child-brides forced to marry men who are decades older; sexual abuse of wives (which is perfectly legal in that country; female circumcision (very cringe-worthy descriptions); countless double standards.
The one glimmer of hope is that Sultana's husband and son are both sympathetic to the plight of women in their family, however they are paralyzed from taking action due to the societal mores.
This book made me grateful to live in a country where I can drive, vote and be equal to men in the eyes of the law.
A member of the royal family of Saudi Arabia, Sultana now is married to a progressive prince, but this privileged status does not protect her or her two daughters from the country's repressive laws against women.
The lack of opportunity to forge equal relationships with men before and after marriage, Sultana argues, is why one of her daughters became fanatically religious and the other suffered a mental breakdown.Overall, this gives insight into the lives of royalty and the views of those who can be religious while flaunting the strict Sunni rules against alcohol and temporary marriage.
I found it profoundly allureing to what motherhood might feel like for me once I get there, here in America, verse's Saudi Arabia.
There were enrageing part's as well, like the fact that anyone can get away with merely a slap in the face for haveing gangraped anyone such as unconcious patient in the hospital or a "purchased" women.
And for any women who support this crap, same goes!
Horendous, horrible thing's happen all over the world, includeing of course America.
We have serial killer's, murder's, rapist's and child molester's all over the world most of which have never been caught, many of which have died.
على يميني بالأعلى في صفحة الكتاب بالجود ريدز يظهر أن طبعات الكتاب بلغت 26 طبعة في مختلف اللغات، إذن 
چیز عجیب و ناشناختهای نبود مطالب کتاب. تصور من از زنان عربستان خیلی به این نزدیک بود -هرچند نمیدونم الان چهجوریه، چهقد عوض شده- و همین نگرانم میکنه. این رفتارهای شرمآور عادی بشه و دیگه حیرت نکنیم از شنیدنشون.و فقط زنان عربستان مورد ظلم قرار نمیگیرن... تفکر زیرساختی همه جا -یا حداقل، خوشبینانهش بیشتر جاها!- راجع به زنان یکسان هست و فقط یکسری چیزای ظاهری عوض میشن.فقط امیدوارم بتونیم به این ستمگریها پایان بدیم.
چیز عجیب و ناشناخته‌ای نبود مطالب کتاب. تصور من از زنان عربستان خیلی به این نزدیک بود -هرچند نمی‌دونم الان چه‌جوریه، چه‌قد عوض شده- و همین نگرانم می‌کنه. این رفتارهای شرم‌آور عادی بشه و دیگه حیرت نکنیم از شنیدن‌شون.و فقط زنان عربستان مورد ظلم قرار نمی‌گیرن... تفکر زیرساختی همه جا -یا حداقل، خوشبینانه‌ش بیشتر جاها!- راجع به زنان یکسان هست و فقط یک‌سری چیزای ظاهری عوض می‌شن.فقط امیدوارم بتونیم به این ستمگری‌ها پایان بدیم.
gripping!!!! we women who r free...born that way...take our lives truly for granted. Thanks the lord for democracy and liberation. I especially like to thank my Amma and Appa for believing that is truly important to raise their children in a liberated and independant way!
Toliko je puta izazivala svađu da nije ni čudo što muž nije pridavao veliki značaj njenim upozoravanjima za Amani i Mahu.I ono što mi najviše smeta, u ovoj knjizi Sultana se UOPŠTE, ni na koji način (možda malo), ne bori za prava žena, iako o tome stalno govori.Iiii moram da kažem da mi se ove korice mnogo više sviđaju od prvog dela (preprepredivne su), kao i da ima manje pravopisnih grešaka, gotovo da ih nema:)
The majority of the book is about her three children - her son Abdullah, who she prays will grow to respect women and not treat them as objects, her rebellious daughter Maha, who suffers a mental breakdown due to the double-standard of the Middle East, and her younger daughter Amani, who throws herself into her religion and becomes extremist, saying that women are so inferior that they should be confined to the home all their lives.
A more inspiring book than the first, and you can actually start to see improvement in very small degrees.
This book overall truly has words of an ungrateful schizophrenic princess of Saudi Arabia.
What else does she wants?Freedom?
With all the jewels and wealth and family love and not a single freedom for her own safety she decided to get a book written?
And no you can not get our sympathy for you.
Our sympathies are for them who are not privileged princess like you.
those who are misused there Who suffer the anguish in your land dominated by men who do everything prohibited for themselves but control their women...This book was good for some knowledge of Arab land.
A princess of the Saudi Arabian royal family, Sultana Al Saud finds the oppressive treatment of women in her country intolerable.
Growing up as a rebellious teenager and well known for her fight against the injustices meted out against women, Sultana was fortunate enough to have married a man considered somewhat more progressive than most other Saudi men.
In the second book of the series, we witness Sultana grappling with family issues as both her daughters follow a path that could lead to their destruction.
My foremost reason for reading these books is that I enjoy learning more about the culture that surrounds me.
This book piqued my interest and I found myself turning the pages continuously until there were none left.
Parts of it were sad and painful, but Princess Sultana’s reactions to events mostly mirrored what mine would have been and kept me satisfied.I would recommend this book to people who already have some understanding of the Muslim faith and/or Arabia, or at least those with an open mind.
It’s almost guaranteed to worsen opinions of many Saudi men, but it shouldn’t worsen opinions of Muslims, Arab countries in general, etc.

I loved the first book "Princess Sultana" that I jumped at the chance to read the sequel that focuses on her daughters. Though, she tries Sultana can't help but watch as her daughters try to find their way in their oppressed society that is Saudi Arabia. Even with all their wealth their family fights the same modern problems like drugs, homosexuality and teenage angst. Like it's predecessor this book is filled with scandal that would make all the European royal families seem tame and dead boring!
The ways in which woman are treated in certian parts of the world and by certain people are horrible and disturbing. Just as I said when I reveiwed PRINCESS, this story is enough to make you cry with its details of rape, exucution and marriage of young teenagers to old men. Through this book you come to learn about Princess Sultana's three children, and in perticular her two daughters. In this book you recoil in shock at the way in which these children are forced to react.Again, another book everyone must read.
I za drugi deo trilogije od mene 5 zvezdica. Sultana me je očarala, šokirala, ali i mnogo čemu naučila svojom borbom i hrabrošću. Tragična sudbina žena pod crnim velom u Saudijskoj Arabiji treba da bude ispričana, i nadam se da će ovaj roman biti više od koristi nego za zabavu i usputno čitanje. Željno iščekujem čitanje 3. dela.
I found this book an interesting glimpse into the Arabic culture. It made me really appreciate the freedom that we have in the West. I applaud the authors bravery in bringing things into the open and also the courage of her menfolk in daring to believe that things can change, albeit slowly.
Book 2 about Sultana was very interesting to read. I enjoyed this story and love Sultana's unquenchable spirit. The plight of women in Saudi Arabia is quite sad to read about and some of the stories are so disheartening but I enjoyed this book.
It was hard to read about all of the horrible things that the women had and continue to endure. It was hard to read, but I think important to learn about how women are treated in this culture. I really admire the Princess bravery to tell her story.
This is the second book in Sultana's three books where she depicts her life as a mother raising children in a very one sided and biased world. I enjoyed the first book more but it makes me very grateful for the freedoms that I have. On to the third book!
I appreciate that she doesn't blame Islam for the way women are wrongfully treated - her faith remains strong. And I really liked her relationship with her sisters in this one. Sometimes her self-righteousness really bugs me though.
Interesting, but very disturbing the life that women still live in "modern day" Saudi Arabia.
It is amazing to me what these women have to go through. She really makes you realize how blessed you really are.
This series is: "Princess" "Princess Sultana's Daughters" and "Princess Sultana's Circle" in that order. All are excellent.
