https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160251.Ordinary_People
Once, when my middle child was 7 or 8 years old, I was listening to the usual rhythm of her saying her evening prayer, when she surprised me by adding, “And Lord, please remember, when I die, I want to come back as a horse.
Why are you asking God to bring you back as a horse?”She answered very matter-of-factly, “Being a person is too hard.
Gone are the days of the finger point to the vagina, the penis, the fire, the meat, the water, the baby, the sky, the ground.
To read Ordinary People is to step through the looking glass into the sweetly familiar terrain of mid-1970s.
You become a participant, not a passive observer, in the inner lives of a family as it falls apart, slowly, wretchedly, inevitably.I was just eleven years old when Ordinary People appeared in cinematic form in the autumn of 1980, but I remember it as a seminal cultural event of the era, hand-in-hand with Kramer vs.
I can't imagine Ordinary People is still being read in high school English classes, but more's the pity.
Boo!But rather interesting, is it not, how I find myself choosing below-par novels lately which have, somehow, spawned off better-than-average silver screen adaptations*! Here--the underrated work of the artist otherwise known as the screenwriter in its glory.This is bizarrely lame--the subjects become known superficially, their problems are mundane. Not a wise choice, people. But, apparently, vanilla can be swiftly transformed into gold (Oscar-wise).*"Bridges of Madison County" and "Up in the Air", to mention the first that come to mind.
Books like Ordinary People are why I read.This is the first book I've read on the subject of depression that isn't written as a memoir, from a clinical stand point, or with the intention of "self-help".
With that said, Ordinary People was the most concise version of depression I've ever seen.
Some of Berger's wisdom that really stood out for me:"Depression is not sobbing and crying and giving vent, it is plain and simple reduction of feeling."" .
This book was first recommended to me by my high school English teacher. I had just read Lord of the Flies, and she could tell I needed something to restore my faith in humanity. This book is incredible!It is a real, unflinchingly honest look at life and all of the horrible things that happen. It is also a reminder of the reasons that life is still worth living in spite of those horrible things.
“Life is not a series of pathetic, meaningles actions. Some of them are so far from pathetic, so far from meaningless as to be beyond reason, maybe beyond forgiveness.” This is a wonderful book about loss,family,forgiveness,depression and life.Judith Guest's writing style was very surprising to me at the beginning because she narrates in present tense(very risky!).But the more you read the more you get attached to Cal and Conrad and the more you want them to make everything work and be happy.I
Some of them are so far from pathetic, so far from meaningless as to be beyond reason, maybe beyond forgiveness.”
But if you can’t feel pain then there’s no way you’ll feel anything else either.
Very psychologically astute book about a family and what happens to the parents and younger son after the older son dies in an accident. Good character development and it's well written. I really felt for the surviving son and I really liked his psychiatrist as well. (And this is one of the few times I can say that, even though I read the book first, I enjoyed the movie as well.)
I read this for The 16 Tasks of the Festive Season, square 4: Book themes for Penance Day: Read a book that has a monk, nun, pastor / preacher or priest as a protagonist, or where someone is struggling with feelings of guilt or with their conscience (regardless over what).
In this book, members of a family are struggling with their sense of guilt or failed responsibility in the aftermath of tragedy (view spoiler)[(Con over surviving when his stronger brother drowned and Cal over somehow failing his son when he attempted suicide).
Title: Ordinary PeopleAuthor: Judith GuestPublisher: Penguin Books Edition: PaperbackPages: 263Rating: 5/5Recommended?: YESReview:I was walking in the library, glancing and running my fingers across all the different spines of all the different novels, my ride was waiting for me, and I had no idea which book I wanted to pick up. And there it was, sitting on of the shorter shelves, with its bland cover and bland title.Ordinary People.I didn’t know that it was a novel. I’ve never watched the movie
Ordinary People.I know nothing about this story, and never intended to read this book; however, something urged me to check it out, take it home, and read it.
(Not as good as her actual story, but good enough).After those two reads, I decided to pick up Ordinary People, hoping that it wouldn’t make me feel as downtrodden as it had initially.
Ordinary People is a book that is not afraid of being ‘mediocre’, that decided to look at the lives of one grieving, mourning family, and turn the outcome of their sadness into something completely indescribable.
Redford deserved his Oscar for best director for pulling a great movie out of an alright book.
(All women in the novel are either awful shrews or the second incarnation of the Virgin Mary.)Mary Tyler Moore, by the sheer virtue of the fact that she can act like nobody's business is able to give humanity to Beth that Guest never did.
The Conrad part of the book really was great, even though he grew up with a pretty two-dimensional mother.
Guest explores ways to keep humanity when dealing with a person with mental illness, and she has some pretty stellar moments along the way.
This book, for me, represents the pinnacle of a 'literary' book that captures real life so effectively that it is entirely banal.
Whether through dialogue, plot structure, or motivation, it is always more difficult to write a book that seems at once 'real', but does not fall into the 'truth is stranger than fiction' valley of attempted realism.Modern authors of this vein (i.e. Salinger) become more an act of dadaist 'difference for difference's sake' than any actually sort of conceptual exploration.
And as has been noted many times, simply acting differently does not make one a revolutionary.
Oft times, it's just a sign of self-centered contrariness.
I liked this book. I hated the mom.
Judith Guest's Ordinary People explores a topic so familiar to us that I'm not sure she succeeds at breaking any molds.
If this is true, then we have Guest to thank for telling the story of the private grief of three members of one family, all trying to deal with the loss of another member in disparate ways.
So disparate is their grief that it drives the members apart from one another, instead of bringing them together when they need each other most.Ordinary People is primarily told from the viewpoint of Conrad, an awkward and reserved teenager trying to cope with the loss of his older brother.
Conrad is grief-struck after his brother is killed in a boating accident, and tries to commit suicide. After finally getting out of the hospital where he was subjected to shock therapy and drugs, he wants to talk about his brother, but while his father agrees that he still needs to talk about Buck, his mother won't hear of it, and would rather pretend that everything is normal than speak to her son about his grief.This book is really great, even better than the 1980 film. It was sad though, the ending was certainly unexpected.
Where this book succeeds marvelously is in its very real depiction of grief and the pain of feeling the many emotions that accompany it.
That is the nature of hell, that it cannot be changed; that it is unalterable and forever." (My heart!)Perhaps most beautiful, albeit painful, is the reminder that we must feel things even if they hurt us deeply.
But if we allow ourselves to feel the pain, we open up room in our hearts for joy and for love.
It’s one of those books that require some thinking to really get it.Ordinary People alternates points-of-view between a father and a son.
A lot of his thoughts were my thoughts when I was eighteen.“Depression is not sobbing and crying and giving vent, it is plain and simple reduction of feeling.”“Because it has always been easier to believe himself capable of evil than to accept evil in others.” I’m very happy with the way that the author handled Conrad’s character.
Sometimes his mother comes across as an uncaring witch, and I don’t think her character is that simple.The writing style also caused a few issues for me.
I have a feeling that it’s one of those books that get better with rereading.
I thought that Conrad needed to man up and get over wallowing in his sadness, I thought that the mom was one of the cruelest characters in any novel I had ever read, and I got a little too touchy about some of the language Judith Guest used in the novel.
So basically the second time, because I could understand the issues and deal with the language,I liked Ordinary People...I liked it a lot.
For the first couple chapters of this book, I was rather confused and repelled by Guest's writing style.
Conrad and Calvin's struggles, though revealed at painstakingly slow rates, made me have to read more and more and more.
When the true conflict is actually revealed, there was a new appreciation for the writing style.
The ending, though somewhat wanting, left me wanting to read it again just so I could revisit the characters.I do warn prospective readers of questionable content though, language and specific scenes create a very dark tone.
One must keep in mind the horrible, horrible struggles the characters are going through.
I read this book for my summer reading and although it was enjoyable, it just took me SO long to read it.
Once I put it down, it took a lot out of me to pick it up and read more.
Once I did pick it up and was reading it, I enjoyed it and it went a whole lot quicker.
I feel as if this could have been maybe half of that length and it would have been a lot better.
This didn't blow me away but it was an interesting read that kept me intrigued to see where our characters landed up.
I read this book my senior year in high school. I picked it up off of my dad's bookshelf. I have since reread it and it remains one of my favorites. The family and friendship dynamics are good and the themes are universal. There is an honesty about all things (including depression and relationships) that the main character has that is striking. It could be a fairly quick read, but I still feel that it has a lasting impact.The movie, to me, is not as good as the book. I almost always think that though. . .
I read Ordinary People in high school.
The story focuses on a middle aged family dealing with the accidental death of their eldest son.
The father, a good-natured man is the glue that's trying to keep the rest of his family together.
Although the family attempts to continue with everyday life, they find that through broken communication and emotions, it's really difficult.
What I really enjoy about this book is the character development and dynamics.
As the title suggests, the characters are ordinary, every day people.
However, even the ordinary are still complex beings and this book is a great example of it.
(2.5) Though well written, the relentess time spent in Conrad and his Dad's heads wore on me after about half the book. Plus, the mom is a major character and is given short-shrift. It would've been more balanced had we heard from her too. This is a good book to read to get an idea about mental illness and its effects on families, though.
Review also posted @Diamond&Coal Book ReviewsA lot of people are depressed by this book. I am not one of them and every time I re-read it (so far about six times!) it uplifts me and reminds me that nothing is ever quite so bad as I think it may be. This book is about the Jarret family, Mom and Dad with their two sons. When we meet them they only have one son left, Conrad, the younger son who has recently been released from a sanitarium after attempting suicide. The book is mostly from Conrad
She becomes withdrawn and harsh when Cal tries to show any interest in Conrad, who is trying to piece his life back together in a way that makes him happy.
The family dynamic is extremely interesting, with Cal being the slightly hovering, interested parent and Beth seeming like she wishes Conrad would just disappear.
Conrad himself is messed up and after living his whole life in a house that kept repression and perfection as rulers (*cough* *Beth* *cough*) this is really the first time he has ever dealt with his emotions in an honest way.
A deeply moving, thoughtful book, Ordinary People takes a brutally close look at the dynamics of a family coping with the loss of a child.
Conrad, the surviving child, struggles with his own guilt and pain by attempting suicide and has just been released from a mental hospital.
Finally, there is Beth, the mother, who comes across as cold and aloof to even her own family, and struggles with finding out that not everything in the world can be perfect and controlled.
While Guest often allows us into Cal's and Conrad's minds, we never see Beth's thoughts, only the perceptions filtered through others' eyes.
But I noticed that the novel is told entirely from the viewpoints of Conrad and Calvin (his father).
While this was no doubt intentional, I watched the film after reading the novel and I was incredibly impressed by the additional depth Mary Tyler Moore added to the character through facial expressions and the tone of her voice.
So while I would certainly not discourage anyone from reading this excellent novel, in this rare instance, I would say that the film adds something to the story and I would recommend watching it after reading the novel.
It is screwing you up, leading you off on chases that don't go anywhere"Although I was feeling iffy about this book at the beginning, it definitely grew on me as it went on.
I could really feel for Con throughout the novel, as we struggles to find his place back in society after getting out of the hospital.
The book alternated between Con's and Cal's perspective-- two different perspectives on life after tradgedy and difficulty.
However, a he never does get her own pov, so it's hard to judge her actions without knowing her thoughts and feelings.

...it is love, perfect and unordered, that keeps them apart, even as it holds them somehow together. The theme of personal isolation within small families is one of my greatest weaknesses. How can they live their lives together, but still be so lonely? Well, what do you expect? We are a family, aren't we? And a family turns inward toward itself in grief, it does not go in separate directions, pulling itself apart. Like hell it doesn't. Grief is ugly. It is isolating. It is not something to be s
...it is love, perfect and unordered, that keeps them apart, even as it holds them somehow together.
The theme of personal isolation within small families is one of my greatest weaknesses.
How can they live their lives together, but still be so lonely?
Well, what do you expect?
We are a family, aren't we?
And a family turns inward toward itself in grief, it does not go in separate directions, pulling itself apart.
Like hell it doesn't.
Grief is ugly.
It is isolating.
It is not something to be shared with others, it is something to be afraid of, to get rid of, and fast.
This was one of my favorite movies when I was a kid (yes, I have always been in love with sadness) and I don't know why it took me so long to read the book.
I am glad I finally have though because not only is it a beautiful story about a family who can not forgive itself, but wonderfully written as well.
Judith Guest has a way of choosing just the right sentiments to allow the words to flow like oil over the pages and make you hope the son Conrad might finally be happy.
Wonderful book.
Great way to lift you spirits by watching those who are so terribly, beautifully unhappy.
I read this book last month (last year!) and forgot to review it. Ordinary People is the quintessential book of suburban angst. It might as well be re-released and re-titled #firstworldproblems because it's trying to decide where to go on Christmas vacation, playing tennis in the cold, and coming in third in a golf tournament.Okay, that's oversimplifying it. I think the book tackles depression very well and is still relevant today, 40 years after its initial publication.
