https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1920425.The_Pedestrian
Ray Bradbury wrote a story about being picked up by the cops for walking.
Just walking.
I had a not-dissimilar experience, I was also picked up for just walking.
He wrote about it much better than me.
My story in comment 4 Behind Bars: Surviving Prison.The police sometimes pick on people for no reason whatsoever but paranoia on their part, society, people who don't want to see anyone who doesn't look like them or act like them and want the police to 'clean them away'.In the next comment, msg 5 Laura saw the synchronicity and gave me a link to the story.
Thanks Laura.
Çıkarımlarım yanlı ve yanlış olabilir ama bu okumalar, bana Ray Bradbury’nin bilim kurgu veya fantastik hikâyeler yazarken işin insan tarafına daha çok eğildiğini gösterdi.
Bradbury bize olağandışı bir hikâye anlatırken insanı insan kılan temel hislerin yok oluşundan doğan dehşeti daha iyi aktarabilmek için bu yolu kullanıyor bana göre.Son Yaya adlı öykü kitabında da durum böyle.
Kitabı oluşturan beş öykü, bilim kurgu öyküsünden çok korku öykülerine benziyor.
Her öykünün son sözcüğüne geldiğinizde gözlerinizi tavana dikip, aldığınız derin nefesi yavaş yavaş vererek derin düşüncelere dalıyorsunuz.Öykülerin diline gelirsek: Çok güzel benzetmelerle etkileyici bir dil kuruyor Bradbury.
We had to read The Pedestrian in English class a couple of weeks back.
Since normally the teacher prints out a few passages of long books, what I didn't expect was to come home and google this name, only to find out that those small two pages he gave us was the entire novella!Despite being incredibly short, The Pedestrian definitely stirred something in me.
Imagine this - someone fifty years prior to today describing what the world would be like in a hundred years time.
Sometimes it feels as though it's exactly like that.
Falling in love with his prose everyday.
World gone crazy. Unfortunately, all of this original dystopian novels written as a warning to the future have gone unheeded by the masses and taken as a “how to” by those in power. I love Bradbury, but this one was slightly one note to me. Not bad and a quick read. 3 stars.
The content of this story is simple: a solitary man takes his habitual evening walk through his neighborhood, passing house after dark house full of people sitting and watching TV.
Murrow, who, not long after this story (and Fahrenheit 451) was published, in 1957, said: "It might be helpful if those who control television and radio would sit still for a bit and attempt to discover what it is they care about.
This is a ridiculously short novella, but have checked it nonetheless, as it quite simply conveys so much during its few pages - something that can be given interesting perspectives in the world of today.Basically, it's a dystopia where everyone watches TV.
Now, our protagonist has as his favorite pastime to walk around.
Just walk.
I think it's a scary thought, and although this short story doesn't really make an attempt at a "realistic" dystopia (at least in 2012), it provides great stuff for thought at just two pages.
"The Pedestrian" has several echoes of F451 within, such as "Magazines and books didn't sell any more," leaving the writer, Leonard Mead, out of work.
Also, several very similar linguistic phrases are also found in both Pedestrian & F451, such as "buckling sidewalks" and the tomb-like description of TV-worshiping homes.A short but powerful work.
Wow. Bradbury does it again with this four-page glimpse into a future full of skepticism and fear. Based on an experience in Bradbury's own childhood and said by Bradbury himself to be "the beginning" of Fahrenheit 451, "The Pedestrian" tells of alone man out for a walk at night who is stopped by an empty police car. All the three million citizens of the city are at home watching viewing screens, making cars and police nearly obsolete, and making a single man choosing to go out for air seem either criminal or mad. Brilliant.
Bradbury's stories are generally my cup of tea and this made no exception. Although short, "The Pedestrian" presents a gloomy view of the future, in which simply walking outside and enjoying fresh air is seen as an act of rebellion which needs to be punished. Dystopian fiction at its best!
So simple yet so amazing. He is everything a reader could ask for, these days.
I think I liked this book the bestLike the others they were futuristic and ahead of the times But they also showed what was to come of us in 50 years and I would much rather NOT have this happen it looks like it's actually quite true....?

We get the notion that walking just for fun is a very strange action in the time this story takes place.
As the man strolls carelessly down the sidewalk, he looks in all the houses and watches the people who are all glued to their giant wall televisions.
The man's name we learn is Leonard Mead.
Leonard does as it says and continues to be questioned by this driver-less car.
Along the way the car passes his house and he shouts out to it.
I would say people who like ambiguous endings, or stories that leave a lot to the imagination of the reader.
Plot SummaryThe story begins with Leonard Mead, he is an ordinary man, he lives in a house, doesn't have a wife, and he likes to walk outside at night.
He has never gotten caught in all his years of walking, and one night, he is walking down the street, mindingh his own business, thinking about his life and what others' lives are like, and he sees a police car round the corner.
CharacterizationMr. Mead is a different person from everyone else, he does not sit and watch TV all the time, he goes outside and walks and gets fresh air.
SummaryThe book starts off with the main character, Leonard Mead, standing at a crosswalk on a cold November night.
He continued to walk down the sidewalk, like he has done every night for many years.
Leonard loved going on walk at night.
Leonard told the voice that he was just going on his nightly walk.
Scared, Leonard slowly walked over and got in the back.
He wanted to know where he was going, but the voice didn´t answer, just drove off.RecommendationI recommend this story to anyone who likes Ray Bradbury.
It is a great, short book and any fan of Bradbury fans will like this.
PLOTThis short story is about a man, a writer, who walks every night for years.
Although the main idea is to show how it is suspicious to take a leisure walk because everyone is inside watching their television.
He goes on a walk every night for several years for fresh air and to get out of the house.
It is suspicious about Leonard because he is doing something that is unusual during the age they are in, even though it is just going for a walk like he has been for years.RECOMMENDATIONI would recommend this short story to people who want to discuss their opinions about the near future.
I say that because I think I'd be with the guy walking and wondering what the world has come to.
Also it makes me really think what is going to happen in the future generations.
Characterization: In the beginning Leornard Mead sounds like a normal guy walking the streets at night.
He seems to wonder why the world is like it is and that no one goes outside anymore.
Plot: Leonard Mead seems like an average guy just taking a night walk.
The voice ordered that Mr. Mead get into the car; when Leonard did, there was no one inside.
Personal Response:I thought this was an interesting short story.
I thought it was interesting because this story was wrote in the 1950’s, set in a time not far from our current year.
It was also freaky to read about people not walking around at all.Plot Summary:The story begins with a man walking down a deserted street at night in 2053.
He walks by people’s houses and talks to the house, asking it questions.
The voice comes from a police car.
After a bunch of questions, the police car tells him to get in the car.
I recommend this because this is an interesting story.
Personal Response:I enjoyed this story a lot because it was futuristic and provoked my idea of what the world will be like in the future.
Plot Summary: The story takes place in the year 2053 and follows a man named Leonard Mead.
We get an idea of this when a police car pulls him over and starts questioning him but there is not an actual person in the car.
The police man asks Leonard questions about what he is doing and then makes him get in the car to take him to a Psychiatric Center for Research onRegressive Tendencies.
personal response: I would have liked to read on but it just ends in a cliff hanger.
the police force had been cut down to a one patrol car, this car had found this man walking and what happened is that the police man grew suspicious of this man because he had no alibi so he arrested the poor man and took him to the Psychiatric Center for Research onRegressive Tendencies.Recommendation: I would like to recommend this to the people that don`t get angry when their is a cliff hanger at the end of a story, and one who can comprehend this type of literature.
Ray Bradbury's writing is simplistic and amazing, with a lot of common themes throughout his stories. The more you read, the more you can enjoy.
It was Fahrenheit 451 in two pages. And, to my tastes, the better for it. I read it online here courtesy of James:http://mikejmoran.typepad.com/files/p...
I would give this story a 5 out of 5 because even though it is short Bradbury conveys the author a big message.The story is set in the year 2053 were a man named Leonard Mead all nights went out for a walk and never saw anyone.
One night he was walking and then saw a patrol coming his way and then the patrol parked in front of him.
(hide spoiler)]One quote of this short story would be " The streets are like dry river beds" which the author uses to describe how the streets are getting cracker and empty due to the lack of use of the people at night.
Bradbury shows what he thinks 2053 would be like; yet, it is nowadays that we experience the society Bradbury has depicted.
(view spoiler)[ People are too attached to the television and/or other electronic devices, to an extend where we could spend a whole day indoors.
Bradbury shows in his story a quote that some people, including myself, experience: "The multicolored or grey lights touching their faces, but never really touching them." Sometimes, I am watching television, but not watching it at all (not sure if this make sense...); I am sitting there, dumbly and not fully aware, viewing an insignificant show...
One of the stories that lead to F451.
The character of this short story became Montag and the dystopian genre was changed forever.
Bradbury's anger at being stopped for walking in LA (I think) lead to him rushing home to write this and it shows.
The stupidity of the police officer in the story shows how Bradbury felt about all people who look strangely at someone going for a walk to enjoy the world outside, much like the world of today where YOU are in the wrong for not having your phone out while walking down the high street, never looking up to see the world around you.
The society in which Ray warns us about comes to life in this short story. After reading this novella, I had to let my mind drift off into the abyss of worry and anticipation. In this 21st century of new technology and innovations, I think we can agree that mass media has become vital for most people in our society. However, Technology is not a thing to be condemned, but will we let it control us the way Bradbury predicts?
Excellent short piece (12 mins) read in a stunning voice that scared the hell out of me when the police computer-robot-voice spoke. The English narrator is awesome. It's a small frightening tale in the not so distant future that feels like armageddon.
A terrific dystopian tale of a time when walking along the streets for a breath of fresh evening air is seen as a sign of illness or nonconformity. Really liked it, but would have preferred the story to be expanded.
read this in my english class and my teacher said "no kidding guys, when (x) said that it's weird for someone to take a walk at 8 oclock in the evening i got really scared for when you'd finish reading this on your own"nevertheless, it was a good story
