https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13539044-the-silver-linings-playbook
Where Perks ends with Charlie coming out of the hospital, Playlist begins with Pat coming out of the hospital.
Like his belief in silver linings and the happy ending to his movie, Pat has no room for negativity ("practice being kind, not right").
Quick talks about a specific Eagles season (I remember it, the events are real!).
Pat identifies with the up and down Eagles so it was important for Quick to write about that specific season.
I'm not writing quick-like.
I liked the ending a lot actually.
The Bell JarAlright, consider yourselves warned, now onward to my short review.Silver Linings is one of those books that I wouldn't normally pick up and probably wouldn't if not for wanting to read it before I watch the movie.
There were chapters that made me smile and chapters that made me teared but at the end of the day, I don't love this book.
I saw a review on Goodreads saying that Silver Linings is like an adult Perks and I guess I do agree a little.
So it's probably the case of 'it's not you, it's me' for this since I didn't exactly love Perks either.
Just saw the movie and I cried like a little girl..The next day, after reading the book...Well, I'm a little disappointed in the book.
The movie was excellent.
I loved the chemistry between the actors, their wonderful performances and the story.I found myself skipping pages in the book whenever Pat talked about football.
I didn't find Pat and Tiffany's romantic relationship credible because the book lacked the proper detailed descriptions of their heated encounters.
In short, I wouldn't have read this book if I hadn't seen the movie first.
Good thing it was a fast read.3 stars["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
4,2 starsOkay... so it was good. As you can already tell by my rating, it was an enjoyable read. However it did not give me the 5 star thrill. It is beautifully crafted, such an entertaining story, lovely and funny characters, inspiring message but it did not keep me eager to read and read. Would I recommend it? - Totally. Would I read it again? - Unlikely. Was it worth reading? - Of course.
And he even knows he’s different and that his head’s a little skewed, but all those chemicals are so impossible to control.Yet Pat Peoples remains childlike in his optimism.
And everyone knows that the only two things Philadelphia people do well is boo at kindergarten graduations and root for evil teams like the Eagles.But I digress.Because right now I’m thinking that maybe Pat Peoples isn’t so crazy.
Even if their books are easily forgettable, for the time that I am reading them, they are a fun way to spend my time.
A book that is not forgettable, that is well written and that has characters I would like to meet.
It is about the love of family, the loyalty of friends, the need to put right what is wrong and most importantly the search for happy endings.I could spend hours talking about each and every character, but that would spoil the book for you.
As a mother I completely identified with her unconditional love of her son.
I mean, I understand the construct - but I kind of felt like the "diary style" writing limited the author's ability to let me really feel the story.
I was so distracted by how many times he said mundane and pedantic things like "what felt like hours" and "I ran fast in that MAN gear - not because I am a MAN but because I am very good at running" and the fact that HE NEVER USED A CONTRACTION.
I mean, he would NOT use a contraction.
LOVED this book.
so funny and real.Pat Peoples has been in "the bad place" for years.
He believes in silver linings above anything else...
and he believes that by trying to become the best man he can, he will eventually reach his own silver lining.
he is distant and moody and his affection for Pat is anything but obvious.
Pat Peoples is a character you cannot help but love and root for.Tiffany has been through her own struggles.
In each other, Pat and Tiffany find a common ground and a unique bond.
Despite everything, "crazy" Pat Peoples sympathizes with others.
Pat’s main goal is to continue on a path of self-improvement including working on being kinder, strenuous exercise and reading books so he'll be a better husband when he finally sees his beloved wife Nikki again after their ‘apart time’.Pat likes being home, but his moody father refuses to talk to him unless the Philadelphia Eagles win.
As he works on becoming a better person, Pat gets to attend the Eagles home games with his brother and makes a lot of friends at the pre-game tailgates.
I like books that cover psychological and sociological aspects, and this was an interesting take on a narrator who is anxious, obsessive-compulsive and who is recovering from a trauma.It's the story of Pat, who was just released from a mental institution and is obsessed with getting back together with his ex-wife, Nikki.
I would recommend the book to those who like family dramas, psychological issues or stories of redemption.
I laughed the majority of the time with this book.
It’s a great debut, a quirky story that grapples with an eclectic mix of subjects including mental illness, the dynamics of a dysfunctional family, love, rejection, football & dancing.
For a good 1/3 of the book I was thinking give me a break, enough with the ‘behind every cloud is a silver lining’ shtick.
Made me feel good, I'm rounding up to 5Not spoilers just Pat’s thoughts on classic American literature and offered as a taste of the humour.
If you're not amused doubtful you'll like the book, I'd say give it a pass.(view spoiler)[A Farewell to Arms Hemingway’s best love story.
There are good books and there are bad books, period, that's the distinction. Norton Juster It appears that this book was structured, not around a plot but around a shamelessly badly rendered character. This idea could have been surprisingly successful, if in the hands of a author who knows his craft. 2d characters. You can almost hear the echo of their cries as they wither in a lack of creativity and the weight of their soul crush monotony. The main character is a narcissistic, obsessed, chil
Norton Juster It appears that this book was structured, not around a plot but around a shamelessly badly rendered character.
The main character is a narcissistic, obsessed, child who had the cognitive abilities of a ten year old boy, pampered by a mother with low self-esteem and tremendous enmeshment issues.
Yet, by some extraordinary means, this is even worse than  This is Why We Broke Up. A downright disgrace to a movie that, while completely and utterly flawed, at least held strings of suspense and character development.
This book, on the other hand is the complete absence of those qualities and lacks craft, and exudes a lack of skill and sophistication.
Anyway, The Silver Linings Playbook is an engaging, poignant novel that touched a lot of things: mental health, silver linings (obviously), brotherhood, parentage, lies, friendship, love, betterment of oneself, etc.
When I'm reading this part, I swear it was breath-taking and flawless and mesmerizing that I've become emotional and feel things beyond my comprehension.With this kind novel, I don't exactly note every detail about everything.
And I am thankful that it didn't disappoint.My only complain is that The Silver Linings Playbook spoiled a lot of good classic books.
The movie people made the dull book somewhat better.
The story of Pat Peoples here in The Silver Linings Playbook basically follows the same plot as those of Forrest and Charlie.
(view spoiler)[I will not tell you whether there is really a Nikki or not in the end as I want you to find this out for yourself as this one makes a big difference between the book and the movie and obviously, I liked the movie more.
Pat People believes that his life is like a movie.
Oh, in the movie, there is a scene when Pat Peoples throws the book out of the window.
The book is SO much better than the movie! I'm actually kind of shocked how much they changed or left out in the adaptation. If you liked the movie, you should read the book and then maybe reconsider! :)
Having liked the movie just fine and expecting the worst when opening the book, I was surprised it wasn't a total piece of trash -- it had some emotionally affecting bits (particularly as the narrator learns about everything he's missed over the past few years as he's been institutionalized), some funny bits, and was clear and quick for the most part (although the last third or so felt rushed).
It's also one of the rare cases in which I think the movie did a better job with a lot of aspects of the story … but more on that later.I see I'm not the only person who thought of this book as kind of being an adult version of The Perks of Being a Wallflower.
I think it was mentioned a few times that Pat was writing this story down, like a journal type of thing.
For one, I got kind of tired of Pat constantly talking about how he thinks of his life as being a movie.
I really thought this was 'that stupid book' everyone loves and I would hate. Funny fact: I loved it.
As time progresses we watch Pat struggle with his condition, become re-united with family and friends and meet a woman who is similarly recovering from a traumatic event.It's pretty clear where this one is headed from early on and despite a number of small surprises along the way it does travel the predicted path.
Also the attempt to follow a successful season for the Eagles along side the main narrative felt a little overdone (I lost count of the number of times the team chant was recited!)Probably more a 2.5 than a 3 – but after a good day on the beach I'm feeling generous.
I mean, I watched the movie before and absolutely fell in love with it.
I'd heard that the book and movie were very different so I wasn't expecting a perfect match (I think this helped as well.) I found myself just falling in love with Pat and Tiffany's COMPLETELY messed up lives for some reason and was rooting for them the entire book.
I was really, really hoping that each of them got the happy endings that they deserved.
I can't believe how far Pat has come from the beginning to the end of this book.
I definitely recommend this book!
4.5/5 stars!Thanks to Audible for offering this audiobook free, way back when. I finally got around to listening to it and I loved it. It even made me tear up at the end. It's very different from the movie, but excellent in its own right. Highly recommended!
Damage is done to any meaningful public comprehension of mental illness.
Just as so much literature of the past led them to believe that multiple personalities was a common solution of the afflicted to deal with life’s contradictions, the outcome here is to make us believe that total mental blanking out and revision of a non-war trauma is a common or plausible response.
Even for childhood trauma, the incidence of a total mental barrier of its memory, what Freud called hysteria, is not typically the mountain to mental healing and key to the work of psychotherapy as he made it out to be.
It’s about a football-obsessed, mentally ill man--Pat--who’s readjusting to his life after leaving a neuropsychological facility.
Although Quick never specified which mental illness Pat has, it’s clear it’s not severe enough to reduce him in this way.
By not specifying Pat’s illness, Quick didn’t have to work very hard to portray authenticity; he was able to mold Pat however he wished.
Then toss in an undeveloped romance with unlikable love interest Tiffany (also mentally ill and also in some vague way), and the story goes from silly to sillier.
Endearing, believable - a sensitive yet humourous exploration of mental illness.Pat starts the book in a 'bad place' - both physically and mentally.
Sounds like a bleak tone about mental illness, right?
His observations are also extremely funny at times (I loved the critiques of various classic novels - he's so right, many are so relentlessly miserable!), and the depiction of his family and friends is entirely believable - by the end of the book, you really do feel like one of the family.
I really enjoyed this book. The story is of a mentally deranged man who has spent four years in the mental ward of the hospital is learning how to conduct himself on the outside. He has a Wife he longs to see. He realizes that life does not always have a silver lining or a happy ending. It was very well written and I felt like I was right there with him for the book is placed here in Philedalphia.Enjoy and Be Blessed.Diamond
So the narrative felt more like the author making fun of the protagonist and I really had a problem with that.There are so many great American novels and when Pat sets out to read the entire syllabus of his wife’s class to improve himself you can’t help but be proud of him.
I know Pat wants a silver lining in every story, so I found it really amusing to think he would read those books that don’t fit his personal philosophy.Personally I did want to explore more of the depression side of this novel because I felt there were some very interesting elements explored but instead the author was more interested in a clichéd romance.
Although this story is dark and psychological and filled with regret and anger and frustration, I’d still say I obtained a certain amount of pleasure from this story, mainly because the characters felt lifelike with realistic problems, and I was so enamored with this tale that Pat Peoples could have been my next door neighbor and Tiffany could have lived on the next block over.And not just because Tiffany and Pat took to the pavement with as much joy as I do, getting a runner’s high with every mile, the endorphins shooting through their veins the same way an IV drip would.
There’s strength and power in recognizing you’re not perfect.I’d be remiss without mentioning the voice which felt like it was encased in childlike wonder and hope and strength, and I embraced it head-on without sidestepping or looking away or skirting off the dance floor.
Who cries after listening to Bonnie Tyler's Total Eclipse of the Heart?Pat Peoples, the offbeat hero of The Silver Linings Playbook.When in a difficult situation where retaliating through violence or similar abuse is probable, he runs away, literally, from the situation, until he can feel his tears mixing with his sweat.
I like Pat Peoples, not because he's sweet in his delusion that he'll ever get back his old life, but because he sincerely wants to rebuild himself into a better man.
So if all men were like Pat Peoples, I wouldn't mind if they cry over the silliest of love songs.
Ahora, con esto no pretendo decir que el libro no sea bueno, por el contrario, es increíble y creo que nos da a conocer en un modo muy simple, la complejidad de las problemas psicológicos.
Pero bueno, me estoy desviando —como siempre— y eso no es precisamente bueno.Matthew Quick nos escribe la historia de Pat Peoples, un hombre con una laguna mental que lo atormenta y la fiel creencia de que su vida es una especie de película producida por Dios, y su misión en la historia es ponerse en forma, ser una mejor persona y reconquistar a su esposa Nikki —su final feliz—, con la cual "estableció" una especie de periodo de distanciamiento.
