https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9597.Player_Piano
Thou shalt lie, steal and kill to protect your corporation against enemies7.
Thou shalt not demand meaning in life, but entertainment and convenienceThis is Vonnegut’s first novel, and the fifth I am reading.
Just like her first novel was full of the anxiety of a world on a disastrous voyage towards the Great War, Vonnegut’s first novel shows the horrible making of the post-modern human being - more robotic than the computers that are about to be invented.
Let’s fight the windmills of the corporate personality, for some magic to stay in the world.For as long as we are here, our stories will go on, as Vonnegut brilliantly states in his closing lines:“This isn’t the end, you know”, he said.
I just remembered that I did not review Player Piano.
I am not going to write a full review because I lost the momentum, but I have a few comments.
First of all, If you never read Kurt Vonnegut I would not start with this one.
This is his first novel and his fragmented writing style and satire is not fully developed.
Player Piano imagines a world where most jobs became obsolete due to the extensive use of machines to replace the use of less productive humans.
Kurt Vonnegut is gradually becoming one of my favorite writers.
In his first novel, published in 1952, Vonnegut envisages a dystopian future where nearly all jobs have been rationalised away by increasing automation.
But, just when things seem most hopeless, a saviour appears in the form of a brash, uncouth but lovable billionaire, who, despite having no previous political experience, rides a populist wave to become President.
He immediately expels all illegal immigrants and starts a war against an alliance of Middle Eastern and Asian countries.
Within months, America's downtrodden poor are again leading full, meaningful lives as fruit pickers, hotel staff, prostitutes and cannon fodder, and the country enters a new golden age.
When Kurt Vonnegut does dystopia (as he does in his first novel, Player Piano), you know it's not an empty idea for him to rail against, but a way for him (and us) to work out the implications of a new reality, in this case, our desire to improve the world with technology.
In this early dystopian vision (set in the near future after WWIII), the world is nearly completely automated (like the player piano).
Far from bringing about happiness, automation only serves to alienate the upper class from the rest of society who no longer have any purpose.
Player Piano by Kurt Vonnegut was his first novel, first published in 1952.
Early fiction from Vonnegut is told in a more straightforward fashion than Vonnegut readers will be accustomed to from his later works, but his imagination and wit are still unmistakable.
This is a dystopian work describing a United States after a third war where machines have taken the place of 90% of industrial workers.
Funny and thought provoking this ushered in a long and prolific career for Vonnegut.
The big names in the social sciences of the day - von Neumann, Ashby, Weiner, Bateson, Deming, Beer, to name just a few - all had cybernetic connections through the war-effort.Vonnegut's prescience about the effects of cybernetic thinking for things like automated factories, computer-assisted design, self-driven cars, voice-recognition and expert systems are at least as good as anyone involved in the discipline at the time.
Not for a decade did cybernetics under a new heading of Corporate Finance, as a real discipline and an ideology, become identifiable as a visible intellectual force.
His old friend and colleague Ed Finnerty has acknowledged that this way of life is hollow and unfulfilling a long time ago and resists the systematic automation of everything by not fitting into the mold of the brilliant engineer that he is.One day, Paul is asked to betray his integrity for a better job and a secure social position and he finds himself incapable of doing it.
It’s been almost thirty years since I read Player Piano, and all I had retained from that first read was the name of the main character, a faint recollection of the novel’s focus on a future world heavily reliant on automation, and a vague sense of not liking the book all that much despite Vonnegut being one of my favorite authors.
I have never read a book by Kurt Vonnegut that I didn't adore and this novel is perhaps one of his best.A beautiful book about the reckless and relentless escalation of technology and automation, questioning if the inexorable rise of gadgetry in our time has really improved the quality of our lives.
We live in an age of transition so dramatic and technological in nature that the themes of this book define our era, and there is no writer I would trust more to call bullshit on our brave new world than Vonnegut.
Yeah, I agree or at least am concerned with most of the themes brought up, but it was done with a lack of subtlety that grated on me.In terms of the societal and cultural critique I generally align with many of Vonnegut's positions.
In this book elites tell themselves they are heroes, moral heroes, saving the rest of humanity while in actuality most of their actions and motives are self-serving and based on consolidating or increasing their power.
Technology, with proper policy and decent thinking, can benefit broad swathes of humanity.
I love Vonnegut in general but like I said, in spite of the themes I was disappointed with story-telling, characters, and ideological heavy-handedness.
Seriously, anything by Vonnegut is a must-read!
After this, his first novel, Vonnegut went on to write far more original and versatile works, many of which I've read.
'Player Piano' is Vonnegut's most straightforward narrative, but also possibly his harshest and most thorough satire; his social discontent and bitterness does not jump out in short bursts here, but is more cool and collected, and therefore able to seethe beneath every word of this carefully constructed and brutal depiction of the powers-that-be and the trail of human wreckage left behind in the name of "progress".
There was a period in my life when I read all the Vonnegut I could get my hands on, which is mostly a very rewarding experience, but oh man, this is terrible. It's his first novel, and it really should've been a short story - even as a short story, it would've been forgettable. Classic scifi man/machine themes unleavened by the irony I would usually expect from Vonnegut, drawn out far too long, with characters who lack depth or interest. Read, I dunno, anything else by Vonnegut instead, and you'll be okay.
Player Piano felt different from other Vonnegut books: the sentences weren’t as bare, the pages were full and his fingerprint felt more spread out.
If Vonnegut’s prose is fast food and James Joyce a steak house, then Player Piano falls somewhere around Applebee’s but with good food.---Something close to Paul Proteus dies, and in an emotional state, he orders that its body be brought to his office.
Uncertainty impedes progress.There are so many little contradictions and truths spread throughout this book but everything seems to fall under the umbrella of “March Forward," which is Vonnegut’s cynical yet hopeful view of: yeah, we mess up, but keep trying to do better.
To get a sense of how gifted a writer he was - how tightly he could plot, how quickly he could develop a diverse range of characters, how expertly he could build tension and keep a reader's attention - one should read both the short stories found in Welcome to the Monkey House and his first novel Player Piano.
In both these books the Personality of Vonnegut had yet to become the dominate force in his writing, and so the full range of his craftsmanship can be appreciated.At least that's what I think.
The description of Player Piano on the dust jacket made my decision to read the book that much more poignant:"Want the computer to solve all your problems?
Want to find out what hell is really like?"Most of the students I teach (in spite of the best efforts of their teachers...) would answer in the affirmative to each of the above questions.
Vonnegut's jabs at the higher education institutions of the future, in spite of the book's vintage (1952), read like prophesy.
In Player Piano, protagonist Paul Proteus' realtor has a PhD in real estate, and he brags of his writing the "longest dissertation" of any real estate student at his university.
So it was with much joy that I received the news that my book club had decided to read Vonnegut's first novel, Player Piano, published in 1952.Dr. Paul Proteus lives in an allegedly utopian world.
This book is classic Vonnegut in the sense that he has clearly seen the future repercussions of what his society was moving toward and railed against it as best he knew how.
Of course, it's easy to rail against a system that disenfranchises millions but, as Vonnegut shows in Player Piano, it's damn near impossible to root it out.What is missing from Player Piano, and the reason I can't give it that fifth star, is the trademark sense of humor that runs rampant through his other books.
For his first book in 1952 Kurt Vonnegut made an entry in a long string of dystopian novels stretching back to (where else) Eugene Zamyatin's 1921 classic We. It's not the best entry.The We LineageIn order of quality:1984WeBrave New WorldPlayer PianoAnthemThese books all deal with futures in which social class has ossified and production has mechanized.
Lead character Paul Proteus's wife is a shrew (although she does, in fairness, get one scene that's not bad).Shitty Wives in LiteratureEdith StonerMildred MontagDominique FranconRosamond VincyAnita ProteusVonnegut's point - that people need to work to feel useful - seems surprisingly valid.
seriously loved this book 100%
You could see Vonnegut's genius in his first novel.On a blog I read, the Devil Vet's been thinking about hope and hopelessness in dystopian fiction.
"Hope in hopelessness" indeed.But then, that's one of Vonnegut's favorite themes (literally from the beginning, as we see) to kick around.
Sometimes that kind of show-and-tell subplot can feel tacked on or unnecessary, but Vonnegut's storytelling allowed it to weave in and out of the major action.final thought: No surprise, I agree with him.
I'm just saying, yeah, we all need that feeling of dignity that honest work can provide, whether for decent wages or just for our own benefit.
Vonnegut is one of my favorite writers, and this is my favorite book by him.
However I don't consider it exactly a Vonnegut book because it is absolutely unlike anything else he has ever written.Vonnegut likes to brag that he has never written a book with a villain in it.
Proteus has ambition, drive, and the one thing lacking from most Vonnegut characters: desire.
The world, however, frustrates him at every turn, trying to get him to become like the rest of Vonnegut's characters.
I consider this book to be part of the Revolutionary Series: four books by different authors about different types of Moral Revolutions.
What made it so fascinating (what makes all his books so fascinating actually) was that pieces of it were eerily close to the attitude of the world today.
How much freedom are we willing to give up for security?
What are we willing to lose for advancement?
Fantastic book.
I highly recommend it.Here is a paragraph amusing to my political science major self.
Not spoilery in any way:And Halyard suddenly realised that just as religion and government had been split into disparate entities centuries before, now, thanks to the machines, politics and government lived side by side, but touched almost nowhere.
It's pretty amazing that Vonnegut could write so brilliantly about a technological backlash in a computerized society well before the age of the PC and the internet. Besides the fact that vacuum tubes are considered high tech in this book, it could have been written yesterday. You know, if he hadn't died. I didn't love the way the book wrapped up, but I'll cut him some slack since it was his first.
My favorite Vonnegut. Epically dystopian--disturbingly relevant. Somehow it manages not to shove it's agenda down your throat but does gently haunt you.
Vonnegut normal bir insan yahut yazar değil.
İyi ki değil!
Yaşanılanların nasıl algılandığı ve bunların insan üzerinde nasıl etkiye sahip olacağı insandan insana değişir.
Bir olay herhangi birey üzerine daimî olarak şu sonucu doğurur denilemez.
Ancak yine de deneyimlerin ne olduğu, sonrasında kişiden kişiye değişse bile bir “itici güç” olma özelliği taşır ve anlam ifade eder.
Vonnegut içinse bu itici güç ne yazık ki üzücü bir durum: İkinci Dünya Savaşı.1922 doğumlu Amerikalı kalem, İkinci Dünya Savaşı’nda çarpışmış.
Hatta Dresden’de Almanlara esir düşmüş.
Bunların üzerine esir olduğu sırada, müttefikleri tarafından Dresden’in bombalandığına tanık olmuş.
Dresden’in bombalanması tarihin en acı olaylarından birisi; yaklaşık 120 bin kişinin öldüğü, şehrin darmadağın olduğu bir hadise.
Sure, there are dated references that root this book (and his other work) in the mid-twentieth century, but I can suspend my own perspective for a bit and enjoy this bit of fiction.The novel is futuristic, dystopian, and all too possible; set in the New York manufacturing city of Ilium, Player Piano follows a disenchanted high-level engineer Paul Proteus as he disconnects from the public works slight socialism that groups all regular intelligence citizens on one side of the city, essentially devoid of jobs and economy except for the Reeks and Wrecks cleaning and maintenance crews, and sequesters the few engineers on the other, alongside the constant hum of machines.
(Also glaringly obvious to modern readers, Vonnegut's complete and total inability to predict in 1952 the rise of creative industries to replace all the factory workers and administrative peons of his own times -- designers, marketers, TV and film producers, craft artists, small business owners, "user experience" experts, basically all the modern job types that get lumped into the catch-all term "creative class.") That makes the book problematic for contemporary readers, because it's hard to get over the schism here of Vonnegut describing a world that technologically works much like our real world does, but that in his case produces an Orwellian nightmare of a society that is perpetually on the brink of an ideologically based violent revolution; and like mentioned before, this is then compounded by the fact that his writing style here is barely above serviceable, a book that reads and feels exactly like the genteel Mid-Century Modernist relic that it actually is.
In reading this I was surprised to find a book that wasn't filled with Vonnegut's usual sarcasm and absurdity (in a good way). Then I realized this was his first book and that he was still probably finding his voice as a writer when he wrote it. Instead of relying solely on comical misunderstandings and dialogue, you find a more genuine story of people struggling to find a purpose in an unhappy world. Although nothing for me will ever match 'Slaughterhouse-Five,' I enjoyed this more than books like 'Breakfast of Champions' and 'Galapagos.'
Writing in 1952, Vonnegut depicts a world where automation has rendered most jobs obsolete except for a small cadre of managers and engineers who administer the factories and create new machines.
If a Messiah shows up now with a good, solid, startling message, and if he keeps out of the hands of the police, he can set off a revolution—maybe one big enough to take the world away from the machines, Doctor, and give it back to the people.”
This was Vonnegut's first novel and what a quantum leap the author makes from this drab and dated work to his amazing second novel published 7 years later: The Sirens of Titan.
Player Piano was the most conventional and boring of the Vonnegut novels I've read.
It's clear he still hadn't found that profound, irreverant, dark humor that him high up on my pantheon of favorite authors.
There just wasn't much here to sink my teeth into, but I'm glad to have read this to see how far Vonnegut would come from this debut.
I would only recommend Player Piano to Vonnegut enthusiasts and completists.
