https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10514.Travels_in_Hyperreality
I wander into an essay about garments in this book that changes the way I write this book review.
Eco writes that a garment that squeezes the testicles makes a man think differently.
The parts where I am witty and charismatic must be the times when I am wearing a loose-fitting robe and sandals (the true clothes of thinking men).
Faith in Fakes is a book about spontaneous discovery, thinking as play, and true understanding as rejecting intellectual closure.
I don't think Umberto Eco would have it any other way.
Travels in Hyperreality was a text from the late 1970s and early 1980s editorials by Umberto Eco which really hit home when a lot of the meta-commentary of entertainment hit in 1990s when I read it was a freshman in college.
Like most of his books of popular essays, Eco requires you to have a huge frame of reference though and you may be looking up both medieval figures and pop culture of the 1970s.
Of the books I read in my freshman year, coming back to this book for the fourth time in 17-years or so, I was surprised how much of this still stuck with me.
Eco suggests that for the average American’s taste, he feels the past must be preserved and celebrated in full-scale authentic copies; a philosophy of immortality as duplication.
He also feels that Americans always want more of extra, and that we are not satisfied with the average serving of life and must strive to fabricate the absolute fake - for instance the oval office in Texas.
hmmm. nice read until i got bored with an idea that was beat to death. eco seems to be in love with his own ability to draw obvious conclusions. and the conclusions start to lack while the pretention grows. i couldn't finish it--but the first half was good, so i gave it three stars. eco's main event seems to me to be "the name of the rose" afterwhich he becomes "umberto eco" and starts to rehearse that act a bit too much.
I cannot say that I enjoyed this book; Eco always writes as if his audience just graduated summa cum laude with a degree in Western Civilization, and at times he is just too much trouble to read, much less understand.The opening essay has Eco traveling the United States, home of the Hyper Real attractions (he notes that he was in the New Orleans French Quarter the day after seeing the New Orleans Square at Disneyland).
(I will leave it to those who read my Book Reviews to determine whether the fault in comprehending a good deal of Eco lies in him, in me, or in translation from the Italian.)
Eco recognizes this in parts of these essays but continues in this vein because alot of cliches Europeans have about American culture do have a lot of truth to them.
The essays about the modern fascination with the middle ages are a little more original and out of the ordinary.
The reason for the fascination is that much that is important in the modern world got its start in the middle ages.
A public mention by an author that he dislikes sports is something I have never come across before in print.
I have never seen this in print before and respect the author for saying it.
A writer interested in a pseudoscholastic take on a nation so consumed by modernity that it became a hysteric caricature, and in the ways history is bastardized and the present ridiculously beatified to create a sleazy metropolis absent of culture, Eco was William Gibson ten years in advance.Eco knows how to tell a tale, and getting drawn into his essays (which are more like bottomless trickbags) is hardly a difficult task.
My complaint is that, all the while, I never knew what hyperreality was.
Am I subject to an essay which aims to prove that Western culture is a grab bag of artifacts and symbols that have lost their meaning?
Useful for understanding the role of mimesis and simulacra in the latter half of the last century.Sample snark: "True, if you reverse the signs, both say the same thing (namely, the media do not transmit ideologies; they are themselves ideologies), but McLuhan's visionary rhetoric is not lachrymose, it is stimulating, high-spirited, and crazy. There is some good in McLuhan, as there is in banana smokers and hippies. We must wait and see what the'll be up to next."Read these essays if you're at all curious why Italians Do It Better.
Well, it is periodically the point (for historians and fastidious researchers like Eco), but by and large pop culture references to the medieval, explicit or implicit, really only speak to a set of stereotypes gleaned from what we require the Middle Ages to have been for our present day purposes.
These essays are not for the layman. They are complex and sometimes difficult to follow if you're not well-versed in whatever it is he's talking about. I got something out of a few of the pieces, but much of it was lost on me, perhaps for lack of really caring enough to put forth the requisite intellectual effort. As such, i won't give this one a rating. Just know that (minus one or two essays - in particular the one about blue jeans) this is not light reading.
His analysis of Hyperreality defined how I saw things in the 90s and influenced a lot of decisions I made about my own personal artistic journey. He is a brilliant intellectual & a passionate writer...a rare combination. I also loved Foucault's Pendulem. It is the thinking woman's version of stupid Da Vinci's codes lack of context. ceciliayu.com
Reading this collection of Eco essays from the late '60's to '70's was exactly like reading his body of fiction: some were just so good, and some were just confusing and not all that interesting.
In Eco's fiction you can predict how good a novel will be based on its chronological setting alone.
Which is funny, because in this book his essays pertaining to "older" subjects are almost all better than those about "contemporary" (contemporary at the time, anyway) issues.Anyway, it was just nice to read his "voice" again; I'm so bummed that he died.

As a novelist, he was almost the type of the hyper-rational post-modernist of the era.This selection of translated essays has all the hall marks of the commercial exploitation of a cultural phenomenon at a particular time and place alongside a major movie and just before a second popular (if less interesting) novel, Foucault's Pendulum (1988).The collection is, in fact, scrappy without context or introduction, glossed from journalistic and other writings between the mid-1960s and the early 1980s - sometimes insightful, often obscure and, equally often, I am afraid, deadly dull unless you are already a specialist.The intellect is on display but sometimes it is just far too clever-clever and, of course, the passing of three decades has made semiotics seem a little, well, obvious.
The title one speaks to the beautiful and horrific American sense of inflated reality as it manifests in its tourist spectacles, citing as examples a number of places I've been: San Simeon, Las Vegas, New Orleans, Disneyland and Disney World, and particularly the Madonna Inn, an over-the-top, theme-roomed Swiss chalet hotel in San Luis Obispo, CA where I spent my honeymoon.
Let's try telling about the rest rooms.The other essay I read, "Cogito Interruptus", is largely a critique and appreciation of Marshall McLuhan, which, if you are a McLuhan nerd like me, you'll be all into, but otherwise might not grab you.
Although there are some interesting little nuggets sprinkled here and there (I liked the one about how blue jeans shape behavior, and the first "Middle Ages" piece), only the first essay has a really effective blending of author and subject.
Too many of the essays here deal with overtheorized and stuffy lines of thought, which would take a different hand to make engaging; or else, Eco takes a good enough subject (like Casablanca) and bogs it down in too much academic babble.
Who takes all the fun out of Casablanca?

"To speak of things that one wants to connote as real, these things must seem real. The 'completely real' becomes identified with the 'completely fake.' Absolute unreality is offered as real presence. The aim of the reconstructed Oval Office is to supply a 'sign' that will then be forgotten as such: The sign aims to be the thing, to abolish the distinction of the reference, the mechanism of replacement. Not the image of the thing, but its plaster cast. Its double, in other words (pg. 7)."
Working my way through this one... slowly. I just finished the first essay on America's obsession with hyperrealism, the fetishization of places that preserve a "better" (read= more real than real) version of historical truth.
Lot of cool articles. Tough just keeping up with wikipediaing all the references. The man's an Italian Dennis Miller, only you know, smart.
I feel like this book is staring at me.
Umberto Eco's Travels in Hyperreality was an impulsive used bookstore purchase.
The hyperreality one is good--he traveled around the United States to examine how we construct different realities.
Sometimes they are copies of European originals and sometimes, like Disneyland and Disney World, we construct fake worlds that are intended to be artificial but actually better than reality.
And he kept using the word "bricolage." Yet he can be funny even with the dated (the essays span from the late 1960s to the 1980s) stuff, like a discussion of jeans (which for him appeared to be a relatively new thing).

Umberto Eco is one of my favourite authors and I read this immediately after the disastrous vote for the UK to leave the EU.
This is a book about glamour, about lies, about untruths and fake news and was presciently written from a series of essays started in the early 1970s and updated in the mid-1980s.Eco effortlessly and wittily takes us through his thoughts on Disneyland, mass media, wax museums and many other strange facets of contemporary culture, always with humanity and erudition and tolerance.
The book touches on themes of the present day, such as "culture jamming" and "fake news" and is absolutely essential reading.
Some of the essays are great, his writing style - sounding very academic, full of references to particular works, people, etc connected to the subject and then out of nowhere making a very informal, funny comment - is quite entertaining and will make the reader persevere through the harder-to-understand topics.
Some big brother making everything hyperreal so that we don't notice that what we think is real is not real anymore? It's a bit crazy but interesting. I read this for my thesis and some excerpts were useful.
This is a collection of essays 30-40 years old. It's worth reading for the first essay alone, even if references throughout the book are quite dated and often obscure.
Good; repetitive.
Insightful
3.5/5
