https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1021599.Scipio_Africanus
And now the Carthaginian armies were effectively cut off from Carthage.After grinding up the Carthaginians and their remaining allies in Spain, instead of turning against Hannibal in Italy, whose primary source of reinforcement he had blocked, he chose to attack the Carthaginian homeland, but not without a great deal of resistance from the Roman Senate led by Fabius Cunctator and his pendant, Marcus Porcius Cato (the future Censor and foe of the "degenerate" Hellenization of Roman culture, not to mention the embodiment of conservative self-righteousness who sold his old and sick slaves so they would not be a burden on him and regarded his wife as little better than a servant - see Carl Christoph Burckhardt's Cato der Censor: Ein akademischer Vortrag).Leading only volunteers he had carefully trained and outfitted and two legions disgraced at Cannae, he wrought enough havoc in North Africa to make the Carthaginians sue for peace.
Beh, quando comprai su una bancarella a metà prezzo la biografia di Scipione, pensavo che sarebbe stata non dico un pippone sulla guerra annibalica, che d’altronde non mi sarebbe dispiaciuto, ma certamente uno spiegone dedicato alla tattica e alla strategia del generale romano.
Un grande, sì, dal punto di vista militare, ma soprattutto un uomo, un politico e diplomatico che svetta come pochi.
Annibale rispose che reputava il più grande Alessandro, e poi Pirro.
This book; Scipio Africanus: Greater than Napoleon, by Liddell Hart was first published in 1926 and the years have not condemned it to the forgotten back shelves of a library.
You might not agree with the author in some of the cases he makes for Scipio Africanus, I still think that Hannibal was the better commander but I still enjoyed this book.
I would happily recommend it to anyone who loves a good tale of great commanders and leaders in the times of the Legions.A recent title covering the same subject was Scipio Africanus: Rome’s Greatest General by Richard A.
I went into this book on one of my favorite Romans, Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus, ready to experience an old style, biased, painfully and wonderfully British biography, and I got exactly what I wanted.Liddell Hart loves Scipio more than any other general in history, maybe even more than his own mother, and I think that means something coming from a man who advised the British government on security in the Interwar period and wrote a book simply called Strategy, a classic to this day.
Очень интересная биография полузабытого ныне человека.Прочитал с огромным интересом и однозначно прочитаю ещё несколько книг о Сципионе, так как такие люди рождаются не очень часто, а пробиваются к вершинам власти и остаются в памяти народной и того реже...
И тем не менее, у этого человека есть чему поучиться как с точки зрения стратегии, тактики и воинского искусства, так и со стороны дипломатии и искусства жить (хотя о последнем можно судить только по некоторым небольшим и отрывочным данным).
Иногда даже казалось, что он себя вёл как пришелец из другой эпохи, причём даже не нашей, а какого-нибудь 22 или 24 века...
A quote I marked in the book: "It was said of one of the finest British commanders in the war of 1914-1918 that if he had a personal dislike or distrust of a subordinate he invariably gave the latter more rope than others, knowing that if his distrust was justified the man would assuredly use this rope to hang himself." "A military victory is not in itself equivalent to success in war." Scipio could have been king after his victory.
All he had to do was to say yes to being given that power much like George Washington after winning the war of American succession from England.
I found Scipio Africanus by B.H. Liddell Hart a very informative read. Perhaps there is more that can be offered about the victorious General of Zama but this at least wets my appetite to learn a bit more. Much like Cincinatus, Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus is a model of what classical thinkers expect from their leaders - statesman who's primary concern is his country, not his glory.The end of the book offers some analysis by comparing other military leaders to Africanus. You may disagree but Hart makes some good arguments as to Publius's superiority in that realm.
You must read this! The general who defeated Hannibal. The statesman who put Rome's interest first, even when unpopular. Beloved by friends and foes alike. I will always carry this book with me.
Military hagiography. Don't read unless you like sitting around a campfire comparing the military strategies of Caesar and Napoleon and Patton.
In the modern day military you see this being instilled in leaders and soldiers alike through the seven Army Values, which seek to build morality.
In a modern day military manual, FM 6-22, we learn the importance of establishing morality in both soldiers and leaders.
The following are many other things that we learn from Scipio, which is both practical and important in modern day art of war:•	Scipio’s military motto would seem to have been “every time a new stratagem” •	In regards to reconnoiter Scipio said, “He who brings danger upon another has more spirit than he who repels it.
Scipio treated his wife as an equal when in Rome of the time they were no better than slaves.Where Scipio comes out on top, and perhaps equal to Alexander, is that he was a grand strategist.
He took too long, and failed to take advantage of his armies in taking Rome.Scipio eventually used his tactics against him, taking Carthage with hardly a skirmish, eliminating their allies by dividing their forces in their own territory and cutting off Hannibal in Europe, and using Barca's elephants against him.None of the other Great Generals fought another Great General.
When Scipio suggests a lenient peace (probably for no better reason than to ensure it was all signed and settled before a consul replaced him and diminished his glory) Liddell Hart draws comparisons between this greatness of spirit and transcendant humanity with what he (rightly) viewed as disastrously vindictive Versailles settlement.
His claims that Scipio was better than Hanibal seem excessive and the comparisons with Napoleon seem ill founded to me Yet this remains well woryh the read for glorifying a true hero of Rome (just not as good as Liddell Hart thought.)
I would thoroughly recommend this book to anyone wishing to learn more about the great general who would defeat Hannibal at the battle of Zama in 202 B.C. and win the second Punic war for the Romans.Basil Henry Liddell Hart absolutely adores Scipio Africanus.
(Liddell Hart holds this view highly, and this is interesting since at the time of writing the book (published 1926) he seems to have understood that another war in europe was inevitable.) Unfortunately for Carthage other views eventually won the day and the city was utterly destroyed in 146 B.C.All in all a great insight into the times and life of the great Scipio Africanus.
For those who might be interested in Phoenician/Carthaginian or Roman history, this would be a good and concise read.
For those interested in the second Punic war, this would be a nice overview of part of the war.While I recognized the author's name on the cover, it was vague recognition.
As I read the book, I got a very clear picture of the author and his personality and beliefs.
I will leave this quote from the book here:"As so often in history, the disappearance of the oppressor was the signal for dependencies to find the presence of their protector irksome.
Liddell Hart has convinced me that Publius Cornelius Scipio Africanus is one of (if not the) greatest generals and statesman of the world, both ancient and modern.
Hart claims that history only remembers those that have committed spectacular failures (Napoleon, Lee, Ludendorf) while those with permanent success (Wellington, Grant, and Foch) are merged into the fame of others.
For this reason the brilliant life of Scipio Africanus has faded from memory while the name of Hannibal, and his spectacular failure, live on.
Let it live on in this 20th Century biography!
I started this book as I assume many others.
I knew about Punic wars, I knew about Hannibal but I had no clue of Scipio.
Luckily this book changed that.
Scipio was the one who beat Roman's archenemy, conquered more for Rome than ever before or faster than anyone ever did.
Liddell Hart's style of writing is enjoyable and his insights, not only to the the battles Scipio won, but to the overall grand strategy is extraordinary.As Liddell Hart writes "But that a man who at the early age of thirty-five had scaled the Himalayan peaks of achievement and fame should do so is a miracle of human nature...little wonder that historians have forgotten him, for such loftiness of mind is beyond the comprehension of ordinary men-and ordinary men hate what they cannot understand."
In this book, Liddell Hart elevates Scipio Africanus to the peak of military art and proclaims him the greatest general in history.
He was a tactician better than Hannibal, a strategist at par with Napoleon, a grand strategist non-comparable by Hannibal, Napoleon, or Alexander the Great, and a private citizen devote to serve his country -- although the country did not repay him kindly.
In short, Scipio should have been at the top of the list of the military genius and deserved a more thorough study by every military students.
This book was a good overview of the life of one of Rome's greatest conquerors.
There is some debate outside of this record about his overall greatness as a tactician, but as far as strategy and cunning he was certainly among the all-time great.
While reading this book it will become apparent that the author loves the subject, perhaps in excess of what can be allowed while still expecting impartiality.
I enjoyed it, and it certainly does a good job at illuminating the human side of a brilliant young tactician.
Give it a read if you are thinking about it, strategy nerds won't be disappointed.
This book is just wonderful. While it is brief, it gives you enough information about Scipio Africanus to enjoy, especially in the middle of exams. It is very biased towards Scipio, and rightfully so. SA remains as one of my favorite generals of history, who, even with his errors, still managed to defeat Hannibal (in an albeit weakened state)
Great biography of a truly great man.
-Slightly biased writing-Incredibly informative and direct
Hart was a WWI veteran and wrote this book in 1926, but I venture he would say the same today.Hart’s philosophy shows.
For someone with only a tepid interest in military history, I was as interested in what Hart’s book says about the Lost Generation as what it says about war and Roman history.Why will study of Scipio prove more fruitful to a student of war than study of other great captains?
He needed, and had, an understanding of the interplay of military, economic, and political forces that was no less necessary for a general in WWI or for a general today.
“That Caesar's work is known universally, and Scipio little more than a name to the ordinary educated man, is a curious reflection on our historical standards, for one inaugurated the world dominion of Roman civilization, the other paved the way for its decay.”“How might the course of history have been changed had not Scipio's successors reversed his policy and entered upon the fateful path of annexation?
Concise and straightforward, the unconcealed admiration for the general -and the man as well- make up abundantly for the lack of more detailed information on campaigns, etc.
While Liddell Hart has been questioned for his lack of depth by not delving into the German and Italian writings on Scipio, he still provides a detailed and thoroughly interesting portrait of one of the greatest generals and statesmen of all time.
Liddell Hart makes a strong case for Scipio being named the greatest general of all time, and while I would have challenged that offhand before reading this, now I'm not so sure.
What I like best about Liddell Hart's depiction of Scipio is that he portrays the man behind the scenes and not just the general.
Liddell Hart writes a fascinating portrait on Scipio Africanus, one of the underrated generals in world history.
He covers Scipio's rise from his youth until his death and takes special care in describing the Second Punic War.Liddell Hart writes in a very short and succinct style that I quite like.
Interestingly enough the end chapter is a comparison of Scipio Africanus and other great generals (such as Napoleon which is of course where the subtitle "Greater than Napoleon" comes from) and while it is interesting to read I think that this particular chapter is a bit sensationalist and one I am sure that Scipio would have left out if this was his own autobiography!Despite this it is a very enjoyable read and Liddell Hart really makes Scipio Africanus stand out and give a complete view of the great general.
The Roman republic reminds me in some ways of our own.
This volume focuses primarily on Scipio's conduct of military operations.
While I am not a student of such matters, Hart's descriptions are lucid and even a nonspecialist can follow events.
The account also includes some discussion of the cultural, political and economic milieu in which Scipio had to operate, and these were as interesting as the military details to me.
Hart's final chapter attempted to justify the subtitle, "Greater than Napoleon." Without a deeper background in military history, I cannot judge how successful his argument is.
An excellent short biography of Scipio Africanus, the general who defeated Hannibal and Antiochus and made Rome the master of the ancient world.
Author makes several excellent points about Scipio's strategic and tactical intelligence.
Also, there is a great discussion of Scipio's ability to make use of victory to crate long term advantage (something which may have eluded Hannibal after his victory at Cannae and a failed march on Rome...).Another excellent point the author makes is how Scipio was excellent at making peace terms after victory.
This crated a lasting peace until later Roman politicians chose to overturn those terms and the peace was lost...An impressive biography about an underrated historic figure.
This is a really interesting take on Scipio Africanus, by a very influential strategist.
The book's utility to a historian is limited, since it is really just a rehash of Livy and Polybius and doesn't critically approach the reliability of the sources.
The book's utility is primarily to the student of grand strategy.
Tactically Scipio was an innovator in what we would call maneuver warfare in the ancient world.
From a grand strategy standpoint, Scipio is of the "resolute in defense, defiant in defeat, magnanimous in victory" school--c.f., Winston Churchill.
Quality history crafted from the very few sources available on Scipio Africanus.
Hart's true gift here is to question why Scipio appears to be less revered and studied than generals like Alexander, Caesar, Hannibal, and Napoleon.
Hart provides evidence that Scipio was the superior in both strategy, and tactics than these military geniuses (he also decisively defeated Hannibal, and yet doesn't receive the same adoration as that commander).
I was most engaged when Hart describes Scipio's moral qualities (regard for human life, excellent treatment of enemies after defeating them), and Hart's continued bafflement as to why this alone doesn't bring Scipio more regard from students of military history.
B.H. Liddell Hart wrote a work that has stood the test of nearly one hundred years.
It remains THE definitive work on Publius Scipio The Younger.
Regrettably we learn too often of the vain and the warmongers in our history books - the Alexanders, the Napoleons and the Caesars - while the truly great and humble heroes are lost to us.
Such a man was Scipio, whose behavior off the battlefield was as instructive as his martial genius on the battlefield.
And once complete, please read a history on General Flavius Belisarius - a kindred spirit to Scipio Africanus.
