https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/310634.Eros_and_Civilization
Esse livro é um lufar de inteligência nesses tempos em que as pessoas se orgulham de sua indigência intelectual, a partir das pulsões freudianas básicas Marcuse semeia questões sobre a hipótese repressiva e subverte seus resultados e isso abrange desde o trabalho até às questões estéticas. Livraço.
Freed by technology from the necessity of adapting ourselves to reality, being able to shape nature in whatever way we want (36, 92, 152, 156, 194), not having to devote ourselves to alienating work ("it is the purpose and not the content which marks an activity as play or work" (215)), we should be able to enter into a new civilization founded on the free play of the instincts and the eroticization of the whole life rather than on repression.
one of the major marx/freud syntheses. makes the basic argument that sex is way hotter in socialism. should've gone without saying, but some y'all as thick as whale omelets.
While I enjoyed both of my previous philosophy classes, it was Andrew's class and Marcuse's work that inspired me to take more philosophy classes -- I first took three more classes to complete a minor, one with John Bannan on "Philosophy of Emotion," one with Paul Abela on "Philosophy of Mind," and one with Jeffry Librett in the German department that was cross-listed with philosophy entitled "Psychoanalysis and Frankfurt School Social Theory." I again read Marcuse, and liked him even more the second time around (although Librett, while good, wasn't as great as Andrew).
I like the idea that capitalism can (and should) be transcended, but I don't know if I can endorse a theory that requires less 'capitalist' societies to have to go through the vicissitudes of such development.Some quotes with which to close:"Non-repressive order is possible only if the sex instincts can, by virtue of their own dyanmic and under changed existential and societal conditions, generate lasting erotic relations among mature individuals."Within the aesthetic imagination..."Whatever the object may be (thing or flower, animal or man), it is represented and judged not in terms of its usefulness, not according to any purpose it may possibly serve....
Marcuse examines how this way of putting our most basic impulses in the service of society makes for a profoundly neurotic, unhappy populace (think 1950s America, which can barely contain its urges to live more freely).The popularity of Marcuse’s book surely rests on this sense that many people had that sexuality was severely repressed in modern society.
These are concrete examples in which human desire is subordinated to laws and essences that are considered immutable but are clearly just the transformation of facts into essences.Marcuse describes Western philosophy as being invested in finding Truth or Meaning (this is not his way of putting it), instead of examining how our social existence, including our unconscious drives and desires, is socially constructed.
A fantastic celebration and reinterpretation of Freud, which demonstrates not only the possibility of a radically free and non-repressive society but the historical necessity of it.Marcuse works through the tradition of German idealism, borrowing from Kant, Schiller and Hegel, as well as the utopian tradition against the conservative readings of the non-repressive society by Jung and Freud. As well as this, Marcuse spends the final chapter obliterating the revisionist NeoFreudians, focusing on Horney, Fromm (Marcuse's interlocutor at the Frankfurt School) and Sullivan (a figure who still holds sway in the modern psychoanalytic schools).
The problem: how can man continue in civilization if civilization is a suppressing of this life principle?Key argument: correlation between progress and “guilty feeling” (78).
Narcissus and Orpheus represent latent desires which are at odds with rationality-principle.Kant: the aesthetic judgment is the realm where sense and imagination meet; it is the medium b/t freedom and nature.Marcuse wants to use Kant and Schiller’s aesthetic to base a non-repressive civilization, one that contains a new rationality-principle.
For Marcuse sees art-beauty as arising from the dark, latent forces.Combine this with the Eroticization of society where one frees the libido from non-repressive civilization, and you have the nightmare which is modern art.
Marcuse has not only taken a great many of his cues from Freud, but has also modeled his method on Freud...
and consequently, a great many of what I perceive as Freud's bigger flaws get carried on into Marcuse's work, namely an essentialist perspective on the family, a privileging of psychic over social forces, an assumption of "civilization" as a unified field, an inherent phallocentrism, etc.
And yet, in spite all of that, Marcuse's Freudo-Marxist synthesis shows some true insights about the nature of eros.
During my undergraduate days, there was a big fuss made in the liberal arts-side of my college education about Herbert Marcuse, so I read 2 books authored by him. This one was the first one I read and I must say I quite underwhelmed by his theories stated within this book. I'd consider it to be a second-rate sexualized Freud and many of his theories are not well-stated. I find it interesting that a second-rate philosopher such as Marcuse would be so acclaimed in current-day academia.
Muy pesado en ocasiones, vuelve sobre los mismos temas constantemente, pero una buena síntesis de las teorías freudianas y muy centrado en "El Malestar en la Cultura".
مقولات روانشناسی تبدیل به مقولات سیاسی شده اندآیا فروید تمدن را با سرکوب یکی می گرفت؟ آیا تضاد میان اصل لذت و اصل واقعیت آشتی ناپذیر است؟اما نظریه فروید دلایلی برای رد یکی گرفتن تمدن با سرکوب در اختیار می گذارد.آیا تمدن ناسرکوبگر ممکن است؟1- خود نظریه فروید بر امکان پذیری تاریخی یک تمدن ناسرکوبگر صحه می گذارد2- خود دستاوردهای تمدن سرکوبگر به نظر شرط لازم برای امحای تدریجی سرکوب را مهیا می کند.
جهان اجتماعی تاریخی است که غرایز و نیازها و ارضای آنها را شکل می دهد.
This is a great book, if for no other reason than Marcuse's talent to do psychoanalysis and aesthetics in a Marxist register. Sure, Marcuse's hope in automation reads a little silly now, but the idea that psychology's reified "reality principle" is the result of historical accident is important and necessary.The second half of the text, his reconstruction of psychoanalysis which follows his critique of Freud, is stronger than the first.
Very interesting, engaging and important book. Liked the way that Marcuse tried to justify a way for civilization to "improve". He would not settle for the dead-end pessimism of Freud in his "Civilization and its Discontents", although he respected Freud's rigorous methods of development.Marcuse, too, does not settle for short-cuts, and is rigorous as well in his justifications.
کتابی که خواندش دیگاه نوینی از تعبیر فرویدی تمدن و سرکوب جنسی را ارائه میدهد درواقع هربرت مارکوزه ضمن معرفی خوب و دقیقی از تز فرودید در خصوص رابطهی علی و متقابل بین «سرکوب جنسی» و «تمدن» تلاش میکند نشان دهد جامعهی متمدن بدون سرکوب جنسی هم ممکن است.درواقع از نظره مارکوزه جامعه سوسیالیستی چنین جامعهیی ست.
کتابی که خواندش دیگاه نوینی از تعبیر فرویدی تمدن و سرکوب جنسی را ارائه می‌دهد درواقع هربرت مارکوزه ضمن معرفی خوب و دقیقی از تز فرودید در خصوص رابطه‌ی علی و متقابل بین «سرکوب جنسی» و «تمدن» تلاش می‌کند نشان دهد جامعه‌ی متمدن بدون سرکوب جنسی هم ممکن است.درواقع از نظره مارکوزه جامعه سوسیالیستی چنین جامعه‌یی ست.
کتابی فلسفی درباره ی فرویدبا فصل های مانند گرایش نهان در روان کاریخاستگاه فرد سرکوب شده ریشه های تمدن سرکوبگرو..بیشتر بحث در مورد رهایی .. آزادی .. اروس و عشق و خصیصه های ضد فرهنگی دهه شصت است
Chatting with Bryan Magee :: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2pzfy...
Namun sebelum sampai sana Marcuse mengingatkan kita bahwa, “Gagasan tentang Prinsip Realitas ini didasarkan pada asumsi bahwa prasyarat material (teknis) bagi pengembangan Prinsip Realitas telah tersedia ataupun dapat disediakan dalam masyarakat maju dewasa ini.” Syarat material ini beragam dan sebagian besar diantaranya benar-benar material, seperti tentu saja kemakmuran dan hal-hal yang kasat mata lainnya.
Inilah yang sejak dahulu Freud katakan sebagai peralihan dari prinsip kesenangan menuju prinsip realitas, pembelahan dua dimensi kehidupan manusia, yang sebagian besar membedakan antara kesadaran dengan ketidaksadaran.Pengingkaran (represi dua ambivalensi manusiawi) ini kemudian berhadapan dengan kontradiksi internal di dalam diri individu-individu.
Dengan terus membangun harmonisasi antara insting dan alam.Perjuangan ini secara alamiah menuntut kita sebagai kaum muda untuk berada di garis depan.
Marcuse was apparently the considered the most accessible Frankfurt scholar around the 70s and earlier.
The problem I have with this and one dimensional man is that it is very clear when Marcuse is writing about the Antithesis.
To what degree would this be successful for people reading it for the first time in the 60s and 70s if Marcuse's positions were sort of "in the air" but very much not definitively "hegemonic", or the "go to" positions.
Marcuse, like the other Frankfurt Scholars was a humanist.
Still, I feel like there were better writers, better philosophers, theorists, and Frankfurt scholars.
من ثمة يوضع سؤال المعرفة هاهنا حول مصالح الحضارة في تعويض المعاناة المصحوبة على الفرد دوما والتي غالبا ما لا تأخذ هاته المسألة على محمل الجد.حيث إن جميع النقائص التي يضبطها (فرويد) معتبرا إياها عملية على نحو تكون لا رجعة فيها ولا مفر منها أبدا، تكون فيها حرية قبول الإنسان بالحاجيات الغريزية التي تحركه متعارضا مع ىالمجتمع المتحضر، من جهة أن التنازل و الرضا المؤجل مرتبطان بوضعية التقدم.
i feel like the intellectuals of the fin de siecle are looking through my eyes and saying, watch the fuck out)"The superego takes the wish for the deed."(you can't just go do whatever you want, you'll end up like hannibal lecter.
not that i want to eat people.)“It is not really a decisive matter whether one has killed one’s father or abstained from the deed; one must feel guilty in either case, for guilt is the expression of the conflict of ambivalence, the eternal struggle between Eros and the destructive or death instinct." (freud)in other words, we're all suffering and there's no cure"Neither the state nor society embodies the ultimate form of freedom.
an insightful analysis of Freudian psychology intended to find an answer to the problems of repressive social and economic forces ('Reality' principle).
in the final analysis Marcuse finds a way forward through the possibility of creative engagement with work, relying on the model of the work of the artist.
however this way forward does not work on account of 'creativity' itself (creative choices) being tightly framed in the workplace, and thus giving at best an illusion of freedom; and secondly, because this illusory freedom functions to seduce workers into sacrifice of life outside of work (ie.
Книгата на Маркузе,представлява главно философска интерпретация на Фройд от гледна точка на една критическа теория към действителността,дълбоко повлияна от марксовите катерогии взети от Ръкописа от 44г.Хуманизмът на Маркс не бива отхвърлен,както обичайно става при интерпретации на Фройд,а напротив,задълбочен е от интерпретацията на възможността за прогрес на сексуалността е Ерос.Друга интересна идея е мисленето на Фройд като социологически план,конкретно връзката между филогенетичното и онтогенетичното развитие у индивида като обособяващи етапи от прогреса-регреса на сексуалното.Цялата книга е интересен пример как психоанализата може да бъде силен инструмент за критическа интерпретация на социума и индивидите в него.
Saggio sicuramente interessante, ben scritto e condivisibile in molti suoi punti. Va però letto con la necessaria "testa", perché non è scorrevolissimo e dunque abbisogna della doverosa attenzione."La libido continua a portare il marchio della rimozione e si manifesta nelle forme orride e ben note nella storia della civiltà; nelle orge sadiche e masochistiche di masse disperate, di "élites sociali", di bande fameliche di mercenari, di guardiani di prigioni e di campi di concentramento."
The Epilogue was the most powerful and important part of the book in my opinion. I highly recommend it for that section alone. However, the entire book provides a thorough understanding of how Freudian theory matters to a materialist and emancipatory politics in general (and to Marcuse's project in particular).
Un libro fundamental en el pensamiento de Marcuse, y de las ciencias sociales de la primera mitad del siglo XX. Una visión política al psicoanálisis freudiano. Recomendable para adentrarse en el pensamiento de la escuela de Francfort.
Vi har læst et uddrag på 5 kapitler i undervisningen og jeg må indrømme at det ikke gav ret meget mening for mig. Heller ikke anden gang...
a literary anxiety attack
My video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B9tVK...
Well-written and easy to read/follow. Humorous at times. Outdated--I would love to see a 21st century perspective on this. Seminal piece. Should be required reading for psychology.
