https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/139033.The_Fox_The_Captain_s_Doll_The_Ladybird
Without an interest in and appreciation of Lawrence's techniques and style as a writer, this book of three novellas would probably have seemed quite dull. Luckily, I love his work, so I really enjoyed these stories. Another great writer trapped by his society and their small-mindedness.
"The Fox" was pretty good, and the first half of "The Captain's Doll" was ok, but I rather disliked the end of "The Captain's Doll," and I very much disliked "The Ladybird." Not into his "will to power" junk and the lengthy philosophizing without a story line!
On ne sait pas vraiment jusqu'au va leur relation c'est assez ambigue car elles vivent toute deux seules et dorment dans le même lit.
Mais finalement on se rend compte qu'Henry ne veut pas épouser March par interêt car même après savoir ça il veut toujours l'épouser et lui propose même de partir au Canada avec lui.On ne sait pas vraiment pourquoi Henry veut être avec March (qui est d'ailleurs présenté comme beaucoup plus vieille que lui).
Comme un animal il n'hésite pas à éliminer celui qui se met en travers de ses plans.March part alors ensuite avec lui dans son village à Cornwall mais elle n'est pas heureuse.
Written in Lawrence's normal elegant style, the three novellas (or short stories) in this edition cover a period around the end of WWI and are set in England and Germany.Unfortunately, none of the three yarns quite reach the heights of Lawrence's more well known novels, but they are enjoyable and relatively satisfying in their own way.Of the three, I enjoyed The Fox the most, followed by The Captain's Doll and finally The Ladybird.If you are a fan of Lawrence, these three novellas, first published in 1923, are definitely worth the short time it will take to read them.
These three novellas--all stories of erotic triangles--explore the eternally returning shadows of modernity: dissociation, destructive energies that outlast war proper, the aggression at the root of desire, disorienting shifts from intimacy to alienation, the subconscious intentionality of "accidents" (Banford killed by the felled tree, Mrs Hepburn falling out the window), and the failure to find meaning or connection in a world of displacement.
1923): Hannele (Countess Johanna zu Rassentlow), Mitchka (Baroness Annamaria von Prielau-Carolath), Captain Alexander Hepburn, Mrs HepburnTwo displaced aristocrats live in Germany and make their living creating artful, life-like dolls.
Maybe I am just some twat who finds more interest reading trashy YA Paranormal stuff but eeeeh?While I can understand the historical context for a novel like this (because once upon a time, people never had television or the internet to entertain themselves in their free time!
I don't remember half the characters names, I think there was a March and Barnes...
No I will not post onto the internet for the world to be horrified by.But I'm pretty sure the main male character in The Captain's Doll was described to be pretty damn hot, so yeah.
Here is an example from The Ladybird:That fierce power of continuing alone, even with your lover, the fierce power of the woman in excelsis - alas, she could not keep it.
She could rise to the height for the time, the incandescent, transcendent, moon-fierce womanhood.
But alas, she could not stay intensified and resplendent in her white, womanly powers, her female mystery.And so on.
My sense of rising irritation while reading each novella was matched in intensity only by my relief at having finished it.
Not a book to return to, and perhaps, sadly, time to accept that Lawrence is not for me.
three novellas at a time was too much d.h. at one go!
not to mention watching a mini-series version of 'lady chatterley' around the same time.
overkill on stories of class relations and tortured love.
i still think lawrence's life story is at least as fascinating as any of his books, and my favourite of his writings so far is 'the man who died' ...there's a sharp oddity about his writing that i find appealing.
i loved moments of the three of them, and was mesmerized by his observations now and again, but not wholly my cuppa, it turns out.
I really enjoyed reading these stories. The characters were really unique and quirky. Each of the stories have a sort of theme of love in them, yet they couldn't be more different from one another. The Fox I laughed out loud during and found to be the most comical of them all. The Captain's Doll left me feeling a little resentful or something similar. The Ladybird was probably the most intense of the three and had a very unexpected turn. I saw all of the characters and scenery so very clearly and was left inspired...
So I just read this relatively short novella for uni and I loved it..... It's a powerful but short love story, that refers to lesbianism without it ever being mentioned. But who is in love the two women? or the woman and the man? and furthermore how does the pressure placed upon them by society immediately after WWI force their hands in such matters.A great short read with a surprising ending that leaves all parties both bitter and pleased with the results at the same time.
It's been a long time since I read any Lawrence so this was an interesting experience. Only read these because they are set texts for year 12. I think that they will stretch the capacity o most f students. The 3 stories have very similar themes - dealing with the relationships between men and women and the difficulties of reconciling their different views. Not really enjoyable stories - so much darkness, so little happiness.
I really enjoyed this collection of short stories. I haven't experienced D.H. outside of poetry and short stories, but these are more novellas than a typical short. All three stories had some really interesting gender issues specific to WWI. I particularly liked "The Fox," but the connections between the Count in "The Ladybird" and Dracula were interesting as well. Lawrence just has a way with great storytelling, this is quite the collection.
So far I have read the fox, a terrible insight to some of the disaster that can be caused by sexual attraction mistaken for love, in the mind of our young soldier, and the power it and war can have on affecting his judgement. After reading this depressing yet intricately written novella I have found an author that I really enjoy, best of all-it's a literature text. :)
My lecturer insisted that we shouldn't enjoy this, that the writing is transparent and indulgent in a way that fits a 15 year old girl. Obviously I liked it very much. I enjoyed the darkness, the closeness, the claustrophobia and the vague nihilism. Maybe it isn't particularly clever, but it was entertaining.
Heavy in ambiguous symbolism, gender politics and meditations on happiness. The experience of reading it was disconcerting, fascinating, and somehow vaguely repulsive at the same time, if that makes sense. The Fox is my first foray into the weird world that is D. H. Lawrence. It was assigned reading, but I shall have to come back and look at the other two novellas in the collection sometime!
Women and men contend with each other in these three novellas taking place during the First World War and its aftermath. Lawrence’s rapturous descriptions of flora and fauna are frosted over by his characters’ thoughts and base motivations, which are brought to the chilly forefront.
The Fox; The Captain's Doll; The Ladybird : Cambridge Lawrence Edition (Twentieth-Century Classics) by D.H. Lawrence (1995)
Fascinating psychic exploration of characters.
The kind of thing only read for English class or when there's nothing else to be read.
Review to follow soon
The Fox; The Captain's Doll; The Ladybird: Cambridge Lawrence Edition (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin) by D. H. Lawrence (1995)
Each phrase is wonderful - the genius of D.H. Lawrence pierces through every page, as always.
The Fox is classic D.H. Lawrence. Symbolism and ambiguity abound!
Includes a terrible piece of hack work by Helen Dunmore as an introduction.
I finished the first story, The LadyBird and am loving it. Lawrence is a wonderful writer and great weaver of complicated human emotions.
An engrossing trio of novellas. Loved the original ending to "The Fox" included in the Penguin Classics edition--anything that offers a peak into the author's writing process is awesome.
Aaaaagh I HATE D.H. Lawrence! Why have I read so many of his books?!!
I enjoyed every story in this collection. Beautiful descriptions of nature, haunted lovers.
