https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/557211.Five_Go_to_Billycock_Hill
Another fun-filled romp of an adventure with the Famous Five. This one involves runaway pigs, abducted pilots and stolen military aircraft, so it's an exciting one. Rest assured, though, the kids still find time to eat five times their body weight in food. I'm starting to suspect they're actually hobbits masquerading as human children.
Lasten ja heidän koiransa nimet muistin sentään ulkoa, mutta siinä oikeastaan kaikki.
Niinpä oli aika lainata kirjastosta "Viisikko vapauttaa lentäjät" (Tammi, 2005), joka ilmestyi alun perin vuonna 1957 ja oli järjestyksessään kuudestoista Viisikko-tarina.Dick, Leo, Anne, Pauli ja Tim-koira ovat jälleen lomalla (yksi kirjojen klisee ilmeisesti tämäkin) ja lähtevät telttailemaan Billycock Hill -nimiselle paikkakunnalle, jonka lähellä sijaitsee lentotukikohta.
Lieneekö aika sitten tehnyt tehtävänsä Viisikkojen suhteen, vai sattuiko tämä olemaan vain keskimääräistä mitäänsanomattomampi tarina, mene ja tiedä!
Se kyllä kismittää poikatyttö-Paulia, mutta ei tämä ihmeemmin ala pulikoida vastaan.Ja hei, on se ihan totta: näissä kirjoissa tosiaan syödään jatkuvasti.
Die Fünf Freunde bei der Schmetterlingsfarm - gestohlene Flugzeuge und verschwundene Personen. Was gleich bleibt ist dass ein Junge aus der Nachbarschaft mit dabei ist. Ich sehe da ein Schema ;) [10.08.2018]
I liked as well the inclusion of Toby, a friend of Julian and Dick's- it seems to me that most of the kids the five go to school with wouldn't believe their adventures, and now one has shared in it.
Another darker aspect was when Benny goes missing, and his mother thinks he may have been drowned.
There is never any real danger to the kids in these books, but it makes you remember how quickly and easily something like that can happen, with both Toby and his mother believing the boy is with the other.One of my favorite five books growing up, time has not diminished it.
Enid Blyton remains -and after this book, stays - as one of my favorite authors.
This book made for a good merry tale of adventure and innocence, and the pages flew by in one day.
I needed this book after a few mismatched and false starts and hiccups.
I needed the silky and fluid narrative that this book provided.
If there had been a clever enough ending instead of the dumb one provided then it would be one of the best ever.
This book is about the Famous Five going off to a Hill bracketed by a proper Farm and a Butterfly Farm.
Every once in a while I read one of these.
These new German digital editions have new illustrations by Gerda Raidt, a German illustrator.
So far 22 of Enid Blyton's "Famous Five" books were transformed into the new format.I like that I know the stories by heart having listened to the audiobooks as a child over and over again.
The books make a short comforting read in between other heavier topics.In this particular edition the five friends go camping near a friend's farm.
An small airfield is closeby with secret new plane models.
One stormy night, two pilots get kidnapped and the planes stolen.
... reading with my 10 year old daughter...I've read all these books way back when I was a child and I've read them numerous times. My daughter loved it dearly. And it's one of my favourites from this series.
2.5/5★
Semua novel Lima Sekawan menyisakan kenangan indah bagi saya yang waktu itu masih SD/SMP saat membacanya pertama kali. Imajinatif banget menggambarkan kehidupan anak2 di barat karna dulu masih jarang film hollywood yang bisa ditonton.
Here, we join Julian and Dick, Anne and George, not forgetting their dog Timmy who went to Billycock Hill for a leisure trip but had to experience adventure with Toby-their friend, Benny-the sweet little boy(Toby's brother),Binky-Toby's dog,and Curly-Benny's pet piglet...THE BLOB On holiday again, the Five are back at Billycock Hill, and making friends  already.
Two of them kidnapped Jeff and Ray and the other two Flew off the planes which fortunately crashed in sea and they drowned.
It was Jeff Thomas and Ray Wells.
I'm sure it's caves and that's where Curly went, we know."
Saya ingat sekali novel pertama yang saya baca adalah "Lima Sekawan: Sarjana Misterius" saat masih kelas 1 SMP.
Membaca Lima Sekawan saat itu terasa asyik sekali, seakan saya ikut merasakan kekompakan bersama, kecerdikan Timmy, dan aksi kepahlawanan mereka membela kebenaran.
Gara-gara novel ini jugalah, saya jadi ingin merasakan tidur-tiduran di padang rumput yang luas di Inggris lalu menikmati tea time di sore hari.Namun semakin beranjak dewasa, saya merasa kisah Lima Sekawan tidak lagi menantang.
Berkat Lima Sekawan, saya jadi keranjingan membaca buku-buku tebal lainnya :-)Sekilas seperti: mainan kesayangan yang sekarang hanya menjadi pajangan saja.
These books (Famous five) are hands down one of my favorite books from my childhood. All those adventures and mystery …and those sandwiches they always packed! aww, just the best! I would love to read one of these again. To bring back those memories..memories of first experiences with reading books.
This time, of course, the bike trip is not the main dish of the vacation, but it reminded me of that book, with its bucolic feeling, stops at little villages to buy ice creams for everyone and complain that Timmy doesn't even taste his since he eats them in a gulp...
But here it feels even more like a spy story, with the secret military base and all.I enjoyed the scene where Toby takes them to a pool for a swim and they are scolded and chased away by a uniformed official from the airfield.
:( I like you fiery and determined, George!So the book does a lot of things right, although without breaking new ground.
Why wouldn't they report weird noises in the cave to someone, or at least ask?
Why when Benny went missing didn't they call the police and form search parties?
And don't even get mt started on why the Five rescued Ray and Jeff when the farmer and his wife stayed at home and didn't call the police!
Timmy saves the day again!On the plus side, we did have: ✔ boiled eggs✔ ham✔ ginger beer✔ simply-super cake✔ a storm✔ secret caves / tunnels✔ tents✔ A new character (Toby)✔ a runaway piglet✔ a friendly cousin-pilot✔ policemen (eventually)✔ a mad old lady with an abusive son (shades of Five Go On A Hike)✔ a picnic✔ a farm and associated farm jobs (nothing like Five Go off To Camp at all)
167 sivua nostalgiaa!
Enpä muista, milloin olisin viimeksi lukenut Enid Blytonia, mutta kun on kesämökillä ja sade rummuttaa kattoa, on hyvä hetki koluta läpi kirjahyllyt...Viisikko vapauttaa lentäjät vastasi aika hyvin mielikuvaani siitä, millainen on tyypillinen Viisikko-kirja.
Keskellä pöytää rojotti iso kinkku, ja leipä oli vasta leivottua.
Lasikulhossa oli rapeaa kasteenraikasta salaattia ja retiisejä.
Sivupöydällä oli mahtava kakku ja sen vieressä vadillinen teepullia.
Ja tietysti oli voita isot kimpaleet, kannullinen tuoretta maitoa, hunajaa ja kotitekoista marmeladia."Tarinassa oli jokunen porsaanreikä tai vähintäänkin erikoinen kohta ja kieli oli hupaisan vanhahtavaa, mutta myönnettäköön: kyllä minä tämän kirjan parissa ihan viihdyin.
When Jeff, a Royal Air Force-pilot and Toby's cousin, flies off late on a stormy night with the newest aeroplane which is full of secrets, the Five are stunned.
The media claims Jeff has flown away and people think he is a traitor.
Could Jeff really be a spy?
The Five and Toby disagree..."I absolutely adored Famous Five as a child.
For some reason in my childhood, there were lots of British books and comics widely available and back then they were sold for the mighty sum of 10 cents.
Seems funny now when some of the secondhand shops charge $7-10 per book!
This is a good additional to the series, there is camping,an airfield, kidnapped pilots and a runaway pig!
The five go to spend the Whitsun holiday at Billycock Hill where Julian and Dick have a friend called Toby.
When two planes go missing from the airfield during a stormy night the Five are upset to find out Toby's cousin is accused of taking the one of the planes, but when the planes are found in the sea where is Toby's cousin and who stole the planes.I really enjoyed this installment it was a simple little story but different from the 15 books that have gone before.
A great addition to the series.
Although the children spend most of the year at boarding school, Uncle Quentin is doing urgent experiments and needs peace so they are packed off with food to go on their own holiday.The five decide to camp at Billycock Hill where Julian and Dick's friend Toby lives on a big farm.
I loved Toby's baby brother Benny and his pet Curly the pig.
I had to laugh at Jeff's ingenius use of Curly the pig, I think if it happened now the RSPCA would charge him with animal cruelty.All new/older Enid Blyton fans will enjoy this book.
This story takes place during only a week holiday so the adventure comes on quickly and is solved very fast! It was interesting and a fun read! Usually Enid Blyton takes care of little details. When the three boys went to peek in the windows of the cottage, they used a ladder to see in the bedroom window. Blyton never mentions that they put it back. It would have given them away if Will Janes had see. It. They are found out pretty quickly anyway. But good old Timmy comes to the rescue then and in the end!!
berniat membaca ulang serial Lima Sekawan. tapi baru beberapa buku yang dimiliki. akhirnya memulai dengan Ke Bukit Billycock. sedikit banyak ternyata saya masih ingat garis besar ceritanya. bahkan masih ingat tokoh Pak Gringle. mungkin karena nama ini unik (?)begitulah. Sabtu sore ini berakhir dengan diselesaikannya buku Ke Bukit Billycock 😀
Misteri Lima Sekawan kali ini jujur cukup tertebak, tidak terlalu sulit, tapi petualangannya tetap seru untuk diikuti, termasuk rutinitas lima sekawan menyelidiki misteri dan kebiasaan orang-orang di sekitar mereka.
Actually I started this book thinking that it might be boring but after that my friend told it is a good book and after reading some more chapters it was very interesting.after all it was an interesting book
Sviđa mi se zato što se radi o otmici. Najbolje mi je bilo kad su našli Jeffa i Jacka.Sviđa mi se naslov.
Liked the adventure, though yet again set on yet another farm! I liked Benny and Curly and felt they were adorable.
My favorite childhood read.
เลมนี เบนนีกับลูกหมูนารักมากๆBenny and little pig are so cute!
เล่มนี้ เบนนี่กับลูกหมูน่ารักมากๆBenny and little pig are so cute!
3.5 stars
I absolutely adored these stories as a kid. I'm so glad they continue to be reprinted for current generations to enjoy!
Re-reading my childhood faves. My first mystery books and I was hooked to that sort of genre for good...
