https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/176881.The_Fire_Rose
This adaptation of Beauty and the Beast cuts out the merchant father and sisters mourning their sudden impoverishment.
Instead of a formerly-wealthy beauty, our heroine is the recently-orphaned daughter of a professor.
But it turns out there are no children, only a Beast who needs someone to translate some dead languages...This was a fun book.
Of course, this is a wizard so skilled he accidentally turned himself into an alsatian...A flawed book, but one that may be entertaining to readers with a penchant for fairy-tales retellings, the theory of the elements, or turn of the century settings.
"As an answer to petty misfortunes, suicide was frowned upon as a cowardly and disgraceful act." (source).Thus Lackey started to lose points early on, but I continued:Rose decides to live, accepting a job in San Francisco, working for the wealthy rail baron, Jason Cameron (aka the Fire Mage, aka the Firemaster).
And becoming interested in the man on the other end of the speaking tube.In too much detail, Lackey describes the assorted grim activities of Paul du Mond, Jason's apprenticed young sorcerer (a one-dimensional antagonist, with no variation).
Rose spends her days visiting Sunset the horse and reading ancient occult documents to Jason, seeking a way to reverse the spell.
It is a wonder I didn't throw it at the wall, or in the trash (my twin has thrown books of mine in the trash out of fits of dramatic disgust- before I've had the chance to read them.
Kinda like reading a book with someone else, even if sometimes you'll start writing a school paper on it too.
And her use of italics was like those kids who highlighted the unimportant stuff and wrote margins that massively missed the point.The magical theory was pretty good.
I'd doodle gay robots in the margins of my books (don't wanna miss the point, after all).
Disheartened by her situation, Rose accepts an employment offer from Jason Cameron: she will travel to San Francisco to be a governess to his children.
Only when she arrives, Rose finds that Jason was lying to her: there are no children and instead she is to translate ancient alchemical books for him.
"The Fire Rose" is a one book story, and has a good ending; it's just my personal (and greedy) wish for more of them.
Because Rose reads Jason many texts, it gives the author a great way to explain how the system works.
She might be stepping off into the unknown, but it was not with a sense of adventure.No shit. And yes, that's all I'm gonna say, because The Fire Rose was so utterly meh that I have nothing to add.
In which you would think that Beauty comes to love the Beast in spite of his appearance.
But in this book it totally comes off like Rose falls in love with Jason because of his appearance, and it's kind of weird.
Seriously, she's all, like, "Ooh, his wolf head is so attractive.
But it's a problem that's glossed over to make an unrealistically happy ending.
Which isn't a problem if that's what you want to read, but I found the fantasy bits much more interesting than the rather stereotypical romance bits.I did enjoy it overall though.
I love this book. It's a retelling of Beauty and the Beast, set in San Francisco just prior to the Great Earthquake of 1906. As always, her characters are so real that I felt like they were friends immediately: smiling with them, nodding when they talked. . . . You just get drawn right into this time and these people.
I was excited as hell when I saw that Lackey had done a fairy tale retelling, as I tend to like her work, and I love fairy tale retellings. However, I found this book rather a disappointment. Robin McKinley is 100 times more talented at the retelling, and honestly, I don't think Lackey put her best effort into this.A decent read, but not really worth the effort.
With an old enemy looking for any exploitable weakness, Jason needs all the friends he can get.I have to admit, I wouldn't have minded it if Lackey had only written this one Elemental Masters book.
This book teaches readers about Elemental Magic through Rose, who becomes Jason's apprentice - it's a nice way to give readers a lot of information while keeping things from getting boring.
I wasn't always a fan of Rose and Jason's many popular culture references (or what would have been popular culture back then - musicals, opera, books, etc.) - those felt a little overdone, like Lackey was trying a little too hard.
If I had to read one more time that non-orthodox spirituality is "good" and orthodox religious structures (to wit: Christianity) are "bad" I believed I would vomit.
It makes reading the rest of what she writes a trial.Even in this book, a novel not at all concerned with religion in any way or form, Lackey just has to spend a page or two talking about how Christians are stupid.
You don't have to be a religious studies scholar, but if you're going to criticize, do some basic research, or leave it out.I also have a giant problem with books set in historical eras featuring modern characters who basically just wear old fashioned clothes.
It was good to read, but I will never read it again.
3/4 of the way through it I was just reading to finish it, not because I was enthralled or wanted to know what happened.
dislikes were: 1) the beast never changed.
I know Belle falls in love with him the way he is, but...
and he still didn't change back to a human.
I get way into things.
4) We don't know anything about the motivations or history in between the characters.
I don't know what is motivating them to do the things they are doing and that bothers me.
Rose, the heroine, is like Jane Eyre, is so determine to have the same position with Jason Cameron, the hero, even when he is her employer.
Jason is also easy to love, though I have to admit that I don't like the way he’s keeping an eye on her.
It isn't a good thing to do, if you ask me.These lovable main characters make me enjoy reading this book.
I especially liked the way Rose and Jason interact with each other.
I have to force myself to keep reading it and need more time to finish it than I usually do with this kind of book.
This book felt rather like it was written by a teenaged girl as Beauty and the Beast fanfiction without an editor.
The worst example was a Chinese herbalist who gives Rose four packets of four different colors and then she uses the wrong colored packet in the next scene and the other three packets are never mentioned again.But despite all the horrible aspects and lack of workmanship, I somehow still enjoyed the book.
It's just something cute for girls to squeal over.She is a master of romantic fantasy and fun to read, but this book seems to be the worst example of her pandering and condescending to her readers.
For one thing, random quotation marks are everywhere and random quotation marks drive me INSANE.
For another thing, ML has certain canned rants about religion and the oppression of women that get old, especially because they're not particularly sophisticated canned rants.
I've started skipping over those bits.I've decided, though, that the parts I really like are the descriptions of clothes and food and decorating.
(This probably explains why I read Betty Neels -- whose books are nothing but descriptions of clothes and food and decorating.) Thinking over other ML's that I've read, I think description is what she does best.
This book in the The Elemental Masters series is often overlooked as it is published by Baen and not
Retelling of Beauty and the Beast. Was a good read, but last chapter felt like a letdown after all the buildup. Ended with a fizzle rather than a bang. Also, I don't know what the blurb writer was smoking, but "Jason's enemy offers to restore Rosalind's family fortune if she will betray Jason" was not in the book.
I had some issues with how this book was constructed, but Lackey's writing is good enough that I still enjoyed it anyway. Considering this is a precursor to the real series, I'm definitely interested in reading more.
One of the reasons I love this book - the core story is a re-telling of Beauty and the Beast
This was an entertaining read although I did feel things did drag on a bit on the second half of the book, with nothing much happening.
One of my favorite books. Loved it on audio.
Boom.So, The Fire Rose is a fairy-tale retelling of Beauty in the Beast set in San Francisco during the very very early 20th century with elemental magic thrown in.
I mean, fire does take a large portion of this, but there is a different branch of elemental magic at play as well!Rose is the Beauty to Jason's Beast and is led to believe under very misguided pretense that she was coming to his mansion in San Fran to be a tutor to his children and give them a very wide and open-minded education.
It’s usually an outwardly good looking man who can offer the Beauty all the worldly things the Beast cannot - a romantic interest.
He has become a recluse, trying desperately to find a way to reverse the effects of the magick, but has trouble reading the ancient texts – both physically holding the books – and also not knowing many of the ancient languages that Rose is an expert in.
I love Beauty & the Beast and have read many, many versions, but The Fire Rose is right up there on the top of the list.
This is a book that I first read and loved as a teenager that I like to return to when I need the literary equivalent of a comfort binkie.
But Rose arrives to find that the children don't exist, Jason's a big ol' werewolf and Magick (always ALWAYS spelled with a capital and a K) is real.
If it weren't for the fact that he loves Rose and she loves him, he could easily be mistook for the lecherous villain of the book.
One thing that really really bothered me during this particular reread is the constant mention of Rose's weight.
When Rose arrives in Jason Cameron's palatial mansion overlooking San Francisco Bay, she discovers that there are no children for her to teach, and the house is filled with invisible servants and a sour agent of Jason Cameron's named Paul du Mond.
What has become of Jason is that he is now half man-half beast and in danger of losing his mind to the wolf side of himself.
As a result, he has dismissed his whole staff except for his Apprentice, and relies on his mystical salamanders to help him.As Rose reads Jason's books to him, she discovers that she has the potential for Air Mastery herself.
I quite adored this novel when I first read it in my teenage years.
I was a big Mercedes Lackey fan - still am, to a degree - and was pleased as punch to find out she had written a twist on one of my all time favorite fairy tales.
Since then, I've reread it several times and still find it quite enjoyable.
As a ridiculously sappy teenager, The Fire Rose was pretty much my ideal novel.
And just enough romance to keep my sappy-but-not-too-sappy teenage heart content.Rereading it for the first time as a cynical old lady (ok, so 32, but still...
The book is the first in the "Elemental Masters" series, though I don't think they're a continuation, more like books that are all written in the same universe.
That's a good thing, because, while I enjoyed the book to a certain degree, it wasn't enough for me to continue the series.For one, Beauty and Beast, is a hard fairy tale to update.
Now, not only is Beauty, here known as Roslind, beautiful and a wonderful and caring person, but she's extremely brilliant, too.
In other words, she's brave, too.I finished the book, and on a certain level, enjoyed it.

When a person finishes a book there are two sensations: Ahh, that was great, or ugh! I'm never going to get that time back again. This book was the latter I'm afraid. The Fire Rose is a retelling of Beauty and the Beast with the main problem being the beast doesn't turn back into his human form. What kind of "happily ever after" is that! Seriously, I was so bugged by the ending, that even though I enjoyed the rest of the book and thought it was interesting, the ending ruined it for me.
The main reason I enjoyed this book was the heroine, Rose.
I have read a couple of the other Elemental Masters books, set in London, but not this first one.
It is a retelling of Beauty and the Beast in Chicago and the San Francisco area around the time of the eruption of Vesuvius.
While I enjoyed the story, it would have been improved by removing all of the scenes from the apprentice's perspective.
He was quite the nasty person and I didn't think it necessary to spend so much time to see how awful he was.
This is a clever retelling of Beauty and the Beast. Set mostly in the San Francisco area in the very early 20th century, it tells the story of Rosalind Hawkins, a doctoral student at the Univeristy of Chicago, who is hired by Jason Cameron as a translator and research assistant. I won't tell you any more, but there is magic involved. Lackey does a good job of setting the story and making it believable.
