https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11988046-pivot-point
The basic concept for Pivot Point is one of the most original and well executed concepts I've ever come across in young adult.
Addie herself was an extremely likable character, and I absolutely loved her wittiness and I found reading from her perspective to be so refreshing.
I only wish that one of the characters in this book could erase my memory of reading this so I can start it - and fall in love with it - all over again.
3.5 starsThis book was exactly what I needed to read right now. After a series of books focusing on the depressing, the gory, the serious and various roads leading to the apocalypse, Pivot Point is a refreshingly bright novel brimming with fun. From the light-hearted and hilarious dialogue between the characters, to the sheer likeability of the protagonist - Addie - who doesn't bog down the novel with melodrama and angst but leads us through a story that is completely enjoyable and practically
But, of course, things are not quite so simple.When Addie's parents announce that they are getting a divorce, they want Addie to decide whether to stay with her mother in the Compound where people with supernatural abilities (including her best friend) live, or to move to Dallas, Texas with her father and live amongst normal people.
One thing that was touched upon - and I'd like to read even more about - is Addie's relationship with her parents and the way their abilities affect her.
And no one likes a faultless character, anyway.Pivot Point, on the whole, is a great debut and a very fun book.
SPOILERS EVERYWHERE UNMARKED○Mind powers○Secret hidden world from the Normal boring one○MC who loves reading and feels the emotion of the characters○Relatable MC○TREVOR SWEET HEART○Likeable MC○Pain○Pain○and PainOk, so the first half of this book was very meh bc it was so contemporary like and I was really mad bc I felt like all she was doing a Search for was to choose what guy she ends up with, BUTThen there's this whole mystery/murder shit involved and soon her future is so much more than which world, parents, and boyfriend is worth ditching the other future for.
Lol.The first half of the story is indeed all fluff.
Addie is a special sort of clairvoyant who has to make a crucial life decision by “Searching” her two different life paths and each life path has complications, high school drama and boy trouble of its own.^^The story wasn’t perfect and neither are the characters but as already mentioned, the author seems to have this natural control over my feelings because I really enjoyed reading this despite the flaws.
-- Interesting paranormal abilities-- some genuinely cute romantic moments -- a story that moves quickly and keeps the reader's interest-- a solid ending that commits to the path it takes.
A few things that could have been explored in more depth:-- the powers are fairly straightforward, and your usual X-Men/paranormal types-- all the characters would have benefited from more layered relationships and back story -- I didn't really ever care for one romantic interest, and felt fine but somewhat indifferent to the other-- a little more could have been done to separate the two possible futures for clarityBut most of all, for some reason I just never felt the stakes ever felt that high, so I remained somewhat detached from the story.
And that was a very, very pleasant surprise because the novel kept me guessing from beginning to end.Addison lives in a little community that is very different from our world.
Door number one or two?Throughout the course of the novel you have two of Addie's future telling one story.
I really have to give her major props there because this book could have gone very wrong, but it went so very, very right for me.Now, what I didn't expect from Pivot Point was the very well assembled plot.
I love how Addie didn't let her feelings for one guy to dictate which path she should choose.
3.5"I don't care when people think I'm an antisocial, controlling bookworm because that's what I am. It's when they interpret me wrong that I have a problem."•I don't know how long it's been since a book kept me hooked and awake well into the night.  Pivot Point  did it, and this is always a thing that I not only take into account, but highly value.In spite of this, the book does have a couple of flaws -the kind of flaws that made me roll my eyes and grunt unhappily as a form of protest against
She was like a caricature of herself.As proof of the fact that she is actually a likable main character, during the rest of the book she is perfectly fine.
A thing I would have changed a bit, maybe, is the fact that the story is not character-driven at all, so much that I constantly had the impression that the characters, and Addie in the first place, simply went with the flow, as if the events themselves were what led them forward and not the other way around.
And that's what the plot is about: a huge change occurs in her life, and Addie finds herself with a choice that compels her to use her gift; the book is an alternate report of both her futures.
I really couldn’t get into this book and was about to DNF when I was about halfway through, until I got past the beginning and middle. Then I was hooked. It went from boring me to death to a complete plot twist with the murders happening. Now I really need the 2nd book ASAP. Favorite character that I completely loved was Trevor... that guy is something unique and amazing🖤 He saved this from being a 2 Star read🙃
Everything in her walled neighborhood is diffrent from the outside world, from their technology to the way they play sports.When Addison's parents announce they're having a divorce and leave it to her to choose whether she wants to stay with her mother or go live among the Norms with her father, she Searches both futures hoping it would help her decide.
One of her futures held Duke, a telekinetic quarterback and the most popular boy in Addie's paranormal school.
Buddy Read with my two lovely ladies, Kat and Chelsea! (click for their reviews...NOW)So at first I was all like...but then after a couple of chapters...First off, this is a  paranormal romance . Or sci-fi? I'm not sure, all I know is that this is a romance and nothing else, really, and I probably would have known that had I read the blurb other than the first time when I added this to my tbr more than a year ago. So why am I going on about this?Because for some reason I was expecting some acti
I was given:➲ Mean Girls➲ Quarterbacks➲ Boy Drama➲ Love TriangleBut I must admit this was all my fault because I had different expectations going in.
I said it!And I feel SO BAD-for the first time ever- for not liking a book by an author I've come to love but damn, all I was reading was basically the same theme over and over again with different guys.
And I love those-you know, aside from the badass bad boy (I'm cliche like that).
This book was a birthday present from Anna-thank you, crazy alien friend :D And I buddy read this with my hilarious/sarcastic friend, Kat and asked lovely Mela to join along. *3.5 Stars....I think* He grabs hold of my hips and pulls me forward. "You didn't fail me tonight. You saved me. I must've looked like the biggest idiot."I shake my head no, his hands on my hips making my breath come in shallow sips."What's wrong?" He asks. "You're confusing me.""Really? And here I thought I was making thin
I must've looked like the biggest idiot."I shake my head no, his hands on my hips making my breath come in shallow sips."What's wrong?" He asks.
And I sure as hell like knowing that if I invest time into a certain book scenario...that it well and truly exists.
But maybe a lot of that has to do with one certain boy..."She loves to read, Mom. Like these really old, boring books.
P.S. That's another reason I wasn't happy-I really really really reeeeeeaaaallllyyy wanted more Trevor time, but instead I had to share it with her other path.
In one potential future, Addie is a new girl in a Norm school and adjusting to life outside the Compound, and she meets the cute and sensitive artist, Trevor, who becomes her first friend in her new life.
But when her father is asked to consult a murder in the Compound, Addie's choices suddenly become even more dangerous, and she soon has to decide which path she has to give up.How awesome is that concept, by the way?
Duke is the love interest for her Compound future, while Trevor is the one in the Norm world.
para·nor·mal: adj. not scientifically explainable : supernatural -Merriam-WebsterMeet Addison, or preferably Addie; Clairvoyant Divergent. Addie has the unique and thought-provoking ability of being able to see both sides of the coin. In other words, when she has a decision to make, she can see the future of each choice and pick the one that's best. Fascinating, no? But what happens when you don't want either future you foresee? This plot revolves around Addie's venture into two futures after s
This reality also involves a creep with a menacing ability who we learn early on is bad news, giving the story a bit of a dangerous vibe.
-Merriam-WebsterReality two takes us to the normal world where Addie has to learn our present ways of life which lacks the technology that she is used to in her compound.
What makes it even more interesting is that, as one reality happens, the events of the other still come about, but without Addie in its direct path.
While it didn’t’ leave off on a cliffhanger, it’s going to be torture waiting for the next installment!Addison is a girl with special powers living in a city held secret from the outside world; a city where other “paranormals” live and perfect their abilities.
Addison has the ability to search her future and see the outcome of a path she takes.
Yet, I think she gave me enough to make the story interesting, and hold my attention.
Although, those chapters shed light on the story and gave information I wouldn’t have had otherwise, so they were interesting, too.
Can someone please come and erase my memory such that I can fall in love again with this story in 2014?
I really have a hard time believing that I will be able to sit still and wait a whole year for my favorite part of this story.
I saw Addie fall in love 2 times (and I loved both love stories – well, one more than the other) and now I expect the next ‘beginning’ to be just as sweet.I know, this is not the way to start my review, but how do you expect me to focus on writing whe
I saw Addie fall in love 2 times (and I loved both love stories – well, one more than the other) and now I expect the next ‘beginning’ to be just as sweet.I know, this is not the way to start my review, but how do you expect me to focus on writing when the ending hit me with the force of a hurricane?I LOVE(D) this story.I loved Addie, I loved her friendship with Laila, I loved both love-stories, I loved how fun the writing was and how emotionally invested I got (without even noticing until I fell deeply in love with this book).COVER:It is so beautiful and I love how it shows the reflected futures, even though I wish the girl had curly hair in one side and a stripe of blue in the other.CONCEPT:A tiny world inside our world, with supernatural people and their supernatural powers and advanced technologies?
Yeah, I think it’s clever how certain things revealed in one possible reality sort of parallels other events in the other reality, simply because the really big events have been ongoing since even before Addie uses her ability, but no matter how much West tries to plant hints and clues like the murdered girls leading up to revealing the big villain, I think she tries too hard adding in a random crazy (because turns out the ending is completely tangential to the whole point of the Search) and making Addie seem like she’s making this big sacrifice out of a possible future and it didn’t work for me.I guess I expected something monumental to happen at the end of the book, something that could’ve justified spending so much time on Addie’s daily life in these two different realities.
Two Paths - One Choice.  3.5 stars (but the ending was 5 stars, so hurry up book 2!).Poor Addie. I have a hard time trying to figure out which restaurant to go to or which movie to watch when given a choice. If you told me to pick between two paths which would lead my life in complete opposite directions, yet both paths might come with their own set of problems...forget it. I would probably end up having a nervous breakdown.3 second basic story concept : Addie's parents are getting a divorce.
The chapter headings were a fun little touch to distinguish between 2 different stories which took place in the PARA (special powers) community and the NORM (normal) community.
There was nothing that jumped out and grabbed me about what was going on because everything seemed to be focused on everyday life and the two boys who Addie might have to pick between (which was sort of lackluster imo when you could be focusing more on crazy powers), so I decided to come back when I was ready.
When there is a decision to be made in Addie's life her unique ability means she can search her future to see the possible outcomes of her choices.
So when Addie is given the decision to leave the compound with her dad or stay behind with her mum Addie "searches" her future to see the possibilities that each choice could have.
The book is set up in alternating chapters of each possible outcome i.e. stay or go.Overall this was pretty ridiculous, at times frustrating, very predictable and ultimately had a disappointingly written ending.
3.5 Stars “When I read, I feel emotion all on my own.
Emotion no living person is making me feel.”  This is why I read too 😀 PS.
I love you, Addie 💙 Spoilers Beyond.
Read @ Your Own Risk :D Things I Liked: ✔ Trevor ( and Brody ) is the definition of a good boyfriend in my book.
Does anyone know where I can obtain a Trevor?
✔ The ending, which completely took me by surprise.
I'm so dumb and didn't realize the whole book was a freaking search!
Sometimes, I'm so stupid when it comes to reading, I s
✖️ The beginning of the book ( first 150 pages ) were so boring.✖️ Addie's power ( searching the future / clairvoyance ) : honestly, with such an incredible mind power like this, the fact that she can only see two outcomes and can't do anything about it except choose either one is quite pathetic to me.
It just felt like any typical world in a YA novel.
Really good story with lots of potential, but in the end, the dislikes ultimately won out, thus the reason for my average rating instead of 5 stars.
“Sometimes perfection reveals the lie, not the truth.” Addison is a Searcher, she is able to see all the alternate paths when she has to make a decision. Basically, she's able to see, and live through, all the ways a certain choice will change her future and where that decison would lead. This story is set in a modern day world, where a secret society of Paranormals with special mind abilities lives in a technologically advanced Compound, only rarely mixing with the Norms - the ordinary people
This story is set in a modern day world, where a secret society of Paranormals with special mind abilities lives in a technologically advanced Compound, only rarely mixing with the Norms - the ordinary people not able to use any mind abilities.
I had also many problems with this book - the eye-roll-worthy tropes, my lack of deeper connection to the characters and their relationships, some generic parts of the story and Duke.
* Eye-roll-wothy tropes everywhere* Lots of generic filler in the story* Duke* Certain lack of depth of the characters* Way too much centerd on the two romances (not a love-triangle in this case though).
*shelved under childhood reviews*I'm not much of a review fanatic anymore, but I will say this: don't let the rather bland first half bore you into giving up.Trust me, it gets much better. I mean, I went from reading the first 100 pages and then tucking it away for the next three months, to finally overcoming reader's block and flying through the book within a DAY.The end will not disappoint....I just hope I'll be able to say the same for Split Second. *fingers crossed*
I didn’t exactly know what to expect because I’ve read all of Kasie West’s other books which were all contemporaries.
First of all her love for books and words, in general, is something I’m sure most readers can relate to but it wasn’t just that.
Duke wasn’t a bad character at the beginning but when I met Trevor I started to like him more and then I didn’t care about Duke.
As the story progressed it was difficult to even like Duke and this whole popular jock guy thing just didn’t make it easier.
Argh. I'm so mad at this book! Addison lives in a town where people have developed their human mind and are able to access a part of their brain which gives them "superpowers". For instance, her father is a human lie detector, her mother can convince you to do anything and her best friend can erase memories.Addie has the ability to see the future. Sort of....When she has to make a decision, she can see her life into the furture of every alternative, so that she can choose which path to take.When

Addie has to pick who to live with.She calls her best friend over and, to help decide, uses her powers as a searcher to see both paths in the future.
Just the way that keeps the audience interested in the book.One path, the one with her dad outside the compound, shows Addie adjusting to "normal" high school.
When with her mom, Addie hangs out with her best friend and a famous school football player, Duke.
She is funny and supportive, although in some ways she is very alike other best friends in YA.The whole Compound idea is very interesting and fun to read about, each person has a power or ability.
It did also remind me of one of the endings from the Artemis Fowl series, I believe the third book, with the whole memory thing.In this book you will meet Addison.
Then there was Trevor, who I was kind of hesitant about liking in the first place but definitely sort of started to fall in love with his character.
The only thing I would change about this book is the ending.
Not like the Artemis Fowl book did because it made sense.
However, with this ending it's like it happened to her yet she still choose what she wanted to do!?!
A seconda delle linee temporali, il comportamento di Addie cambia ed è una cosa che ho trovato molto realistica, ma non mi è piaciuto il suo lato petulante e debole, dove permette a chiunque tranne sè stessa di scegliere per lei.
C'è qualcosa però che bolle in pentola, quindi voi che non avete ancora letto questo libro: non giudicatela troppo in fretta!(view spoiler)[Nella linea temporale paranormale, davvero, volevo PRENDERLA A SBERLE CON UNA PADELLA!
(view spoiler)[Poi penso che sia comportata come si comportata perché era sotto l'influenza di Duke (e magari anche di Bobby), però non lo so...non mi fido completamente di lei!
I had a sneaking suspicion that I might hate this book and when I found out it was set in a secret high school for teenagers with special abilities.
Abort, abort!!”I don’t think I have really enjoy a paranormal book set in high school since Vampire Academy and I must admit I was expecting this book to be something more along the lines of The Time Travellers Wife.
This leads Addie using her ability to see which choice is best...The chapters of this book alternate from one potential path/reality to another and you might think that this would be confusing but Holy Hell!
But then you see PP, a book that is completely vampire-free, and you think "Hm. Maybe today, I should try something different?"These are the two futures, as laid out for you by me, the Knower of Futures:1) If you buy PIVOT POINT: You will at first think, "Oh wow, Kasie West is a cover model too??" and only later find out that no, she isn't actually, but DANG that girl is pretty close.
FOR SHAME.These are your futures, dear book-buyer.
(Hint: PIVOT POINT is the right choice.)
I don't know how i feel about this one but am sure as hell about how i feel about Trevor.I LOVE HIM SO MUCH KDJSIAKSNAK
I loved how fast-paced and addictive this book was!
