https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26582.The_Claiming_of_Sleeping_Beauty
It's just THAT BAD.Public service notice: This book has been brought to you thanks to the generous sponsorship by the word 'spanking'.
And 'boring' is definitely not the word that any erotica book should be described as, right?
Rape is never okay, and it should not be used as a "sexy" way to start a story.
Well, 'read' is not quite accurate of a word; it was so badly written that I ended up having to skim through most of it.
And still I could not escape the endlessly boring spanking or the atrocious language.Yes, everything else aside, the writing in this book is unbelievably bad.
This book elicited very strong emotions from me, from disbelief to WTF to OMG enough with the spanking already!
I've mapped out my emotional progression from the beginning to end:Pre-read with high expectations: Pages 1 - 100: Pages 100 - 200ish: Page 200 - end: This book is absurd.
I've never read the word "spank" as many times as I have in this book because it's noted on almost every single page.
It was a relief to finally finish the book, not just because of the perversity (not that it's lacking--this book is dirty) but because the overused plot devices became quite laughably boring.
Oh no,no,no,no,no,no......NO!! What in the name of Holy Mother was that??? A JOKE???Because seriously,if it is then call me dumb but I don't get it!!Now first of all,let me clarify that I love erotica and the fact that this story was supposed to be an erotic-retelling of Sleeping Beauty, captured my attention.My heartfelt apology to all those other reviewers who warned Readers away.I did not heed their warnings because I was too curious.But I guess,in this case at least,the age old saying came p
And then as soon as he sees her,he tears her gown with his sword wakes her up by having sex with her(she was still asleep by the way and woke up during the end) and then claims her.By claiming her if you're thinking he claims her as his princess and they ride away to the sunset,you are very wrong.He claims her as his SLAVE.Now ever since I had read my first fairy tale,Cinderella,I had always dreamed of a Prince Charming,loved him,sighed with my friends over him,and just...LOVED him.And look at this Prince Charming....
I was hoping for a more grown up version of the classic Sleeping Beauty tale. Holy Moly! This isn't at all what I expected, and while I am not a prude by any stretch of the imagination, this book was way too intense for me.According to some, I'm not open minded or enlightened enough to appreciate its value. To them I say... well hell, I'm still too stunned to say anything.
I think she just saw "Sleeping Beauty" and assumed I'd want it.
She wanted to borrow it from me when I was done.
I kept pretending to forget it every time.First Book: Fun and novel read.
Interesting background and lots of creative naughty bits for fun.
Second book: Lost steam.
She lost most of the background and plot and even though there was a variety of positions and objects -- she recycled quite a bit of the sex scenes.
I skipped what little bit of the plot was there.
I've been more stimulated reading the phone book.
Well, if you think so, just read my status updates to get a "tastier" insight into the extremely kinky, painful and humiliating sex antics Beauty and the other love slaves go through over the course of this book.
I "blame" Ms. Rice's juvenile writing for that: it was wordy and redundant, the story didn't flow effortlessly and all characters were one-dimensional and unlikable - in summary, this book became downright boring after the initial shock provided in the 1st chapters.
Beauty and any other (un)fortunate love slave in sight got spanked for everything, over and over again.
And, if your religious, republican, right-wing, or "bug-crawled-up-your-arse" sensibilities are easily offended by pornography, then this book is not for you and you should refrain from reviewing it.
If you're not even curious about it, refrain from reading and reviewing this book.
If you're not open to freeing your mind or opening it a bit to other possibilities, by all means, refrain from reading at all, and just go to your farm.3) This book deals witha fairy tale, namely Sleeping Beauty, but it touches upon other fairy tale archetypes, namely the Arabian Nights.
And in that sense, this series can even be read as a political treatise.
By the end of it Beauty is still innocent but she’s really only touched the surface and so has the book so the ending isn’t really all that surprising and I think the perfect prelude to the next one.I highly recommend this for anyone into the SM genre or if you are an erotic lit reader but want some shock value then by all means read it.
Mind you, if you’re narrow minded forget about it because the “shocks” (when I say shocks I mean for vanilla people) start right from the beginning and become more intense, imaginative and descriptive as the Rice delves further into the psychological factors of it.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || Pinterest💙 I read this for the Unapologetic Romance Readers' New Years 2018 Reading Challenge, for the category of: Fairytale Retelling Romance. For more info on this challenge, click here. 💙 When I was a preteen, I was out with my mom having brunch or something, and I remember these two ladies sitting nearby trying reaaaalllly hard to speak quietly, so all I could really make out was "Pssst....did you hear about...psst-psst...Anne Rice...psst-psst.
(17)...he suckled her breasts almost idly as though taking little drinks from them (17)Now that I think about it, KUSHIEL'S DART and CAPTIVE PRINCE both had very similar premises to this book (fantasy kingdoms whose courts/culture revolve around BDSM-like goings-on), to the point where I can't help but feel that they were probably indirectly inspired by THE CLAIMING at the very least.
TWO PEOPLE WANT TO SPANK ME TONIGHT - WHO WILL GET TO WIELD THE PADDLE?" I actually liked CAPTIVE PRINCE.Somebody with the ebook version seriously needs to do a word count of how many times "little" was used in this book.
So my friend sent me an article about "50 Shades of Grey", mentioning that real erotica experts thought 50 was crap and "Sleeping Beauty" was the real thing.
I have read and enjoyed erotica, even BDSM erotica before, but admittedly it's been situations where the submissive is tacitly permitting their treatment rather than being tortured - I guess what I'm saying is I like my BDSM with an undercurrent of actual emotion and enjoyment and with a safe word, or at least with a measure of emotional investment from the sadist side.
I do not want to read a book about people being farmed out to rapists.
This book was definitely a far cry from the 'Sleeping Beauty' I remember from childhood.
Aside from the overzealous paddle-wielding, the story wasn't really particularly "dark".
It was just so damn weird!I mean, who the hell administers a rudimentary enema in a kitchen, anyway!
I'm surprised the castle's resident perverts didn't all die of foodbourne illnesses with some of the nasty things going on in the kitchen.
The blurb sounded promising, but unfortunately, the execution left much to be desired.
Sounds pretty disgusting to me, but who am I to judge!
So if this book does it for you, then more power to you.
BDSM is an acquired taste and if you're not really into it, you'll find the book repulsive.Now, if you're into love games and are fascinated by mild (or not so mild) pain in an erotic setting - you've got the right book.
The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty is well planned out, with the right amount of plot, sex and romance.
Much easier to get through than Interview with the vampire (which I found long and tiresome though inspiring too), from which I gather that Ann Rice got better skilled at expressing her thoughts.
This is, from what my boyfriend tells me, a hilarious book to read aloud on a plane if you want to make the other passengers uncomfortable. As far as I can tell, that's its only use.
I'm not rating this because I couldn't finish it, and I don't feel it's right to rate a book unless you've digested the entire thing.
But I did want to make it clear why I gave up on this book.
I'm not a prude, not real squeamish when it comes to sex, and have no problem with consensual BDSM.
Key word there being "consensual".
The sexual situations in this book are anything but consensual.
The feeling this book incited in me was far from erotic.
When I've first read about it, I pretty much like it, the idea of "BDSM" and actually I think it was also last year when my friend IRL have a VCD about BDSM and we watched it.
And there are also different sex games I guess that you need to do in order to please your master.That's when the story got really interesting because I felt like everything that I considered weird at the first half of the book was slowly explained here.
The sub/dom theme is just a little much for me as it is presented in this book--especially since there seems to be little to no relief for the submissives.
I can see the interest in sub/dom, bdsm if it is played out like it is in Lover Unbound--you know where you play the role and then go back to your regular life.
One of my GR friends said she read it and the 2nd book only gets worse--my question is: How on God's green earth is that possible?✳✳ Reviewed on I ♥ Bookie Nookie Reviews___________________________________________________If you like this type of book, you might enjoy one of these groups.
Well, a four hour plane ride later, I thought there would be no harm to pre read a little bit.
If you want me to be honest, it kind of intrigued me a little bit.
Then he turned into a complete jerk, but I still had a little hope for him because he has set Beauty apart.
But honestly, as soon as they stepped foot (or hands and knees) in this castle I stopped any kind of good feelings for this terrible book.
The Claiming of Sleeping Beauty was the worst book I've read all freaking year.
You’re good, you get a spanking.
I totally dig trashy, nasty, dirty romance novels, especially the ones that use ridiculous words like tumescent, which is what I expected this book to be--with a fairy tale context.
What it turned out to be was 200 pages of rape and sadism and degradation.
Within three pages, Sleeping Beauty was awakened not by a loving kiss, as is the tradition, but by sex, which obviously she couldn't consent to if she was ASLEEP!
Uh, date rape anyone?
No offense to anyone who likes this book.
It picks up the Sleeping Beauty tale from the moment the Prince kisses her and spins a three-book saga of what happens next.
If she passes this test, she will be allowed to marry the Prince and regain her royal status.
The chapters are written from the points of view of Beauty and her male friends.
Each chapter contains a delicious sex scene, and most are GAY!
The chapters written from the perspective of Beauty's male friends are so astoundingly graphic I remember them to this day.
In one, the hot prince Laurent is forced to become a "pony" after misbehaving.
I was all for reading a little naughty fairy-tale erotica from an author I liked - but wow. The whole sub/dom theme (the title really should be "The Spanking Of Sleeping Beauty") was funny at first, then ridiculous, and eventually just tedious. Meh.
A prince comes and bestows his lovingly affections to the lovely princess.
When I say lovingly affections, I mean, him ruining Beauty's dress with a sword, raping her(she was asleep, and she doesn't give permission, which I call rape) and then giving her a kiss.
I could already imagine all that the prince had to endure to save the princess, which is absolutely amazing for my standards.
Anyway, despite the rape and all the nakedness Beauty had to endure, I had continued hoping that Anne Rice could offer me something sweeter.But alas, my expectations were not met.There is nothing sweet in this story.
This was fucked up.The Prince is a fucktard.Ergo, I didn't finish.End of.
Warning - ADULT CONTENTThis book was really my introduction into Erotica and is definitely an eye opener.
N. Roquelaure) that you may be ruined for other Erotica - I was.This book basically picks up on the fairy tale where the Prince awakens Sleeping Beauty with a...
The BDSM life that they lead there is basically a rite of passage for most before they become full noble men and women.
This book is the introduction to a series of three books.
You must be able to completely give yourself over to the fantasy - leave your inhibitions and women's empowerment at the door and enjoy.
Honestly, I'm not quite sure where Sleeping Beauty comes into play here except she's a princess who awakens from a cursed sleep.
What then ensues is such a clusterfuck of actions that I'm just left like...I was told early on that this was pretty much a BDSM book, when in actuality this is a book about humiliating people by spanking.
Then he told Beauty his story and the way Rice wrote it - from the way he speaks, to the language he uses - took me out of it.
The ending introduced us to another Prince, Prince Tristan, who seems interesting - especially to Beauty *snort*.
No, this book is about abuse, repeated rape degradation, humiliation, breaking the spirits of young, innocent boys and girls and spanking.
Sure, Prince Alexi confesses his love for Beauty, but I can't believe that he knows what it really means, considering his own story.
I don't think any of the characters in this book know the true meaning of love.
The Prince who claims her professes to be obsessed with her, that he loves her like no other, yet is the one who begins the rape, abuse and humiliation.
I think if this was published today she would have had to make all the "princes" and "princesses" at least 18 years of age, etc, etc.With that said, this book did it for me.
But LITERALLY it was a stroke fest, and weirdly when I first read this twenty years ago, it was the same way.But back then I didn't appreciate this for what it was...a very authentic exploration of the complexities and pleasures of power exchange.
The whole world in this book is sex, and Roquelaure/Rice plays very deftly with shifting power and the very essence of submission.
Tentacles, that's what this book was missing.
:)I snagged a copy of this just to see what all the fuss was about (and now that I have a kindle, I can read all the smut I want without anyone knowing, lol).
Here's what I thought:- Several images are going to stay with me for the rest of my days, and no amount of brain bleach is going to remove them (specifically: the guy that is forced to spend the night mounted on a statue with it's immense stone cock up his ass)- The whole tone of the book was one of humiliation, degradation and fear.
So recently I came across them while digging through my basement and thought it would be fun to see what a 37 year old Jenny thinks of these since my only perspective is from 20 years ago and teenage eyes.
So my new eyes (with a much stronger perscription glasses) spotted that this book is pretty dated.
I think the possessiveness of the Prince is sort of a dated attitude.
