https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1667589.Bill_the_Conqueror
Felicia Sheridan is in love with Bill West but engaged to Roderick Pyke.
Bill, meanwhile, is engaged to Alice Coker and is dragging her brother Judson to London to keep him out of trouble while he checks on his uncle's holdings.
Let's see Wodehouse resolve all those plot threads and bring Bill and Felicia together...I'm going to go out on a limb here and say this is my favorite non-series Wodehouse book.
Felicia, or Flick, as she is sometimes called, is feisty and has more than her share of the funny lines, although my favorite comes from Judson Coker.
Wodehouse is the guy.
More than 3 stars less than 4 -- maybe 3.25?Sir George Pyke, magazine publisher, wishes his won Roderick was more like his senior editor Percy Pilbeam.
Pyke's sister, Mrs. Hammond, comes up with the perfect thing for Roderick to do.
He wants to marry his boozy buddy Judson's sister Alice, but in order to do that he needs a job.
Can Bill pull off his promise to Alice in London and make Uncle Cooley proud?This early Wodehouse novel seems to be a prototype for the Blandings Castle novels and his other romantic comedies.
Sir George Pyke, founder of the Mammoth Publishing Company, is keen for his son, Roderick, to marry his sister’s husband’s niece, Felicia who is ‘sprightly enough to put the stuffing into any man’.
Unfortunately Roderick is in love with the stenographer from ‘Society Spice’, which Roderick edits with Wodehouse staple Percy Pilbeam, whilst Felicia holds a candle for her childhood sweetheart Bill West, the titular conqueror.
You should be!Only Wodehouse could right these and other wrongs in a story spanning the Atlantic, involving theft, kidnap, embezzlement and deceit of ever possible flavour.
Wodehouse, Bill and true love conquers all.
After a long-ish hiatus, I finally picked up a Wodehouse again. And, boy, did I miss the quintessential British wit, and the beautifully depicted situational comedy Wodehouse writes.This is an early work of Wodehouse, and one can see the humour isn't as polished/present as his later works, but his situational storytelling is spot-on, and you can see the genius that carries forward from this book to his classic later works.Additionally, the copy I read had a preface by Wodehouse himself, comparing it with his later works, which was a wonderful and interesting read!
In these little alleged reviews of mine which no one reads and even fewer look at, I mentioned that I'm working my way through the complete words of PG Wodehouse in chronological order.
Having survived the schoolboy and experimental works, I've often been forced to read through passable romantic comedies that hold no real interest for me being spiritually closer to Wooster or would it be Jeeves in my view of marriage.
On cracking open what I assumed would be another in this series of Wodehouse rom-coms separating me from my destiny of lodging at Blandings Castle or sharing an adventure with J&W, I settled down for another 'I must read this to mark it off the list' read.
He who tires of Wodehouse is tired of laughing and life.
How affirming to read about young people who aren't wringing their hands over microaggressions or sulking in Starbucks trying to finish their screenplays about the quest for social justice.
It includes the Wodehouse staples of imperious aunts, eggheaded academics, cute girls with hearts all a-flutter, deadly hangovers, and a plot more complicated than that of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy. The title character is what the criminals in The Friends of Eddie Coyle call "stand up." I had a million things to do this morning but put them off so I could finish the last 100 pages in one sitting.
Another wonderful bit of farcically tangled froth from the master. He keeps the plates spinning throughout with his usual gloriously light use of language - if there is one minor disappointment it's that the ending is tied up as quickly as it is (everything seems to fall into place in the last two or three pages). That's not a big enough problem to dock it a star, though. Bravo!
Heaven
Delightful. Possibly Wodehouse's best non-series novel of the 1920s
Wodehouse is one of my favorite writers, and every time I pick up one of his books I'm reminded why.
Bill the Conqueror has a wider cast of characters than I'm used to (given my main exposure has been the Jeeves & Wooster books), but it is none the worse for wear.
Wodehouse doesn't try to hide it from you.
Rather, the joy of reading Wodehouse is seeing how he gets you to where you want to be, and where the characters are heading.
Classic Plum in the best traditions of Blandings and Jeeves.
Bill is a typical Wodehouse imbecile with little ambition or energy.
Like Bertie and Ronny and most of the other leading lights he has a rich relation to set his hopes on.
Though, as usual, the money has to be pried from the grasp of a dismissive grouch.
There is also some insight into private tutoring which brought down my award with a star.
Still well worth reading; some beautiful phrasing and sentences.
And, as always, topsy turvy neck breaking metaphors which can brighten a whole day.
Wodehouse is perhaps best known for his Jeeves and Wooster series, and that's how I was introduced to him. Bill the Conqueror, though a social comedy, is a degree more realist; and the result is a portrait of aristocratic life in inter-war Britain that falls somewhere in between the exaggerated hijinks of Bertie Wooster and the deeply realist portrait of Anthony Powell's Dance to the Music of Time series. It's a wonderful balance, and it succeeds in spades. A terrific book.
Not quite as funny as Piccadily Jim or books featuring PSmith which I have found to be laugh out loud funny. Still extremely entertaining. I loved the character of the Uncle that loves old books. I could totally relate to his feelings about his books. I think there could have been some mistaken identity and a little more double dealing/heist behaviour to make this book perfect!
A fun one -- I'm, as ever, impressed by the way in which Wodehouse juggles the multiple plots and then has them all intertwine. Not sure this book will stand out over other Wodehouse ones in the future for me (there's no particularly vivid character like Psmith or Lord Emsworth) but it was quite enjoyable to read.
Three and half, really. Bill is no Bertie or Psmith, but endearing in his own way. The big finish is one of the most memorable and complete triumphs for a Wodehouse character, and delivered in the most understated way I can recall, to great effect. And it is indeed a well-run universe in which even Judsons have their uses.
After a brief publishing slump the past year or two, Overlook seems to have been on a roll lately with their new Wodehouse reissues. This one turned out to be one of the more enjoyable titles I've collected from them. Keep it up, Overlook!
PGW is in stellar form indeed. A love story, or three, spanning two continents and a gang of burglars along with the motley crew of butlers, parlourmaids and the whatnot. It is always sunny in the Wodehouse world. Just open this title and the rays stream through those splits in the curtains.
Any Wodehouse is a great refresher after a heavier read. Clever, witty, often hilarious British humor, and very evocative of the 1920's & 30's. Perfect for fans of charming screwball comedy films. I've loved all of his books I've read.
Entertaining romance set on both sides of the Atlantic. An early appearance of Percy Pilbeam as a sub-editor on the tattle sheet "Society Spice". However, the rich and foppish American, Judson Coker, is not quite up to Bertie Wooster standard.
I randomly rented this audiobook, with no idea of what to expect. It was silly fun and had me laughing aloud a few times. A good lighthearted pick for those of us who like stories written in bygone times.
Another Wodehouse classic!
Единствено заради името на автора успях да издържа до последната страница. Скучен и сладникав сюжет, плоски и предвидими герои, скопен хумор - по-скоро натоварващо, отколкото разтоварващо четиво.
Nobody else writes like this.
la mia recensione: http://xmau.com/notiziole/archives/00...
So so. Feisty heroine/strapping hero/gorgon like older woman/petty villainy/ kindly uncle. Pretty much a book by numbers
I just picked this off the shelf because it looked entertaining... And it is. I could picture it as a Gilbert and Sullivan opera. Just fun.
Brilliant humor, but a little bit predictable.
ah, romance! I love PG Wodehouse
