https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1029405.Skippack_School
Poor kid - it's not just that he prefers to be active and out-of-doors, and not just that he prefers to make things, but he also has poor impulse control, and these days would probably have been diagnosed and given Ritalin. And of course many adults would just assume that he's naughty and wilful. But wise Master Christopher, the teacher, knows how to bring out the best in the boy.As always, de Angeli's art is even better than the story.
I have been making my way through all of the deAngeli books and I think that this one might be my favorite so far.Eli and his family have come to America from Germany.
Eli doesn't like school.
In Germany, his school master was mean and Eli never aspired to learn much.
When he meets his new school master, who is kind and wise, he is surprised.
Old habits die hard and Eli causes a bit of trouble even when he realizes he is being a wicked boy.
When he is left alone to care for his younger sister and the cabin, Eli learns how to be responsible and good.
The first half of the book draws the reader in and introduces the Mennonite culture in Pennsylvania, including school.
The second half involves a visit to Philadelphia and tells about the processes of papermaking and printing.
The illustrations are lovely, particularly the color ones.I was puzzled by how the conflict was not clearly resolved - is the bench sold to pay for the glass?
I kept waiting for an ending that would solve the problem without selling the bench, but then it wasn't spoken about again.
I really enjoyed this children's book about Eli Shrawder coming with his family to America from Holland. :) As Germans, the way they speak is so funny. I love all the lessons Eli learns throughout the book! Definitely a book any child can read! :)
A fun book to read if you're new to the Philadelphia area. In addition to a good story, the book is well illustrated. The endpapers are a map that shows Skippack, German Town, Rittenhouse, the Wissahickon, Schuylkill in days when the area was known as Penn's woods. Now I'm tempted to draw a map of the neighborhood of my own childhood and see how many stories come back to mind.
the 4 stars are for the beautiful illustrations-that is the reason I chose to read this book. the story was maybe 2.5 or 3.
I read this in like 1 1\2 hours it was great!
This is one of my favorite children's stories and one of my favorite children's authors. Of course there are all the connections to my life from spending a day at the Skippack School when in the 4th grade and experiencing education in a one-room school house, Master Christopher Dock-style to attending Christopher Dock Mennonite High School. Although it's a lower reading level than our typical read-aloud, it was good timing as we just visited the State Museum and learned more about colonial life in PA and we're studying fraktur in art.
It's 1750 and Eli Shrawder and his Mennonite family have left Germany on the ship called The Charming Nancy to move to colonial America and live near German Town, Pennsylvania. As he adjusts to his new life and school on the Skippack river, he discovers he has a gift for working with his hands and learns to bless others with it.
Absolutely delightful with all the Pennsylvania Dutch references including Shoo-Fly Pie. Stories about the "Plainsfolk" have great potential to be annoyingly preachy; Skippack School manages to describe the life and beliefs in such an enjoyable fashion that I almost forgot it was about Mennonites. The building of character in Eli is a wonderful coming-of-age story.
Simple children's book about a German family who comes to PA in 1750. Eli loves working with his hands but must have discipline to sit still at school. His schoolmaster gently guides him. Eli also learns the arts of printing and papermaking. This book has been on my want-to-read list for years. It was very difficult to find.
good story of a child who wants to do well and eventually finds his way, in his own way.
i didn't like this book
Love this sweet family tale!
Great book to read to those reluctant about doing school work. It shows the importance of learning to read and do sums and what a little hard work can accomplish.
Story of a young boy who doesn't like sitting still for school and how his new schoolmaster helps him become a better pupil and looks for the good in him.
I lOVED this book in the third grade!
Read with my 7 year old son. Enjoyable read.
