https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/324277.The_Carnivorous_Carnival
Okay but first off: OBLIGATORY TEARS because the Netflix S2 has finished and now we get to wait alone in the dark with only a piece of salmon for company for the rest of the show. 😭😭But I mean, obviously you can read the books and find out what happens. But ya know. I'm still here to complain. ANYWAY! This one is quite dark?! Not as creepy as the hospital, but there is a pit of lions that they're going to throw people into so. \_(ツ)_/ Good quality literature. No wonder I turned out how I did, th
No wonder I turned out how I did, thanks Mr. Snicket, for a childhood filled with murder, arson, and hungry lions.Notable Moments:• for some reason I've forgotten 100% of this book until this reread• I mean I probably read it for the first time 10 years ago but whatever• (NOW I FEEL OLD??)• Madame Lulu was about as helpful as a broken piece of parsley• Is Esme actually a worse villain than Olaf???
which is what we live for!!!(I will probably pause my reread until next year when S3 comes out?!

My daughter and I adored the entire series, but this episode is my favorite.
It contains perhaps the funniest of Lemony Snicket's etymological digressions.
It marks the point where the larger story begins to evolve, where the traumatized young Baudelaire orphans first turn the tables on their arch-nemesis, Count Olaf.
And it's also a point where both the orphans and the story mature, evolving from a good-vs-evil fairy tale of morbid victimhood into a subtle study of moral complexity.It's a pity that so many people who begin this series give up after three or four volumes.
The children arrive hidden in the trunk of Count Olaf's car. A new turn of events - they know where Olaf is and it's them who are in disguise.The good-evil, noble-villain theme expands. The children are the spies. In addition they meet and join the circus 'freaks' who they see put to the test - decent people in a hard place offered difficult choices - will they act like noble people or villains? The circus freaks are a test case, an example, perhaps an illustration of how Olaf's hench-people &am
A new turn of events - they know where Olaf is and it's them who are in disguise.The good-evil, noble-villain theme expands.
In addition they meet and join the circus 'freaks' who they see put to the test - decent people in a hard place offered difficult choices - will they act like noble people or villains?
The circus freaks are a test case, an example, perhaps an illustration of how Olaf's hench-people & perhaps Olaf himself descended by degrees into villainy.We are tantalized with more mysteries and more possible solutions - we discover the secret that has allowed Olaf to find the children time and again...And at the end the children face danger and hard choices themselves.Continues with the familiar humour, word games etc.
I loved the carnival theme this book had going, I was excited that Klaus, Violet, and Sunny dressed up in disguises to fuck up Count Olaf's shit, the mystery of V.F.D is still unsolved, one of their parents might be alive and those poor lions oh my gahhhh...But...HOLY MADAME LULU!THAT ENDING.THAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAT ENDIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIING!!I WAS JUMPING ALL OVER MY BED AND SCARED THE SHIT OUT OF ONE OF MY DOGS!This was me after reading that ending:I'M READY FOR BOOK 10! - Richard
I liked this book a lot more that I thought although everytime I am close to finding out everything it just slips form my fingertips and I have to wait for the next book.
Such an intriguing addition to the story, the carnival vibes were cool!
JANUARY 2017 RE-READBumping this up from 4 stars to 5.
For some reason I had it in my head that I didn't enjoy this one as much as others in the series, but I was clearly mistaken because this is a great instalment.
Madame Lulu is a cool character, FINALLY the children are learning even more about V.F.D., the carnival setting is fun...just so many great things happening here.
Also some great and not-so-subtle messages about prejudice.
I just love Daniel Handler's writing style, and his decision to create a pen-name who is also a character.
De los que menos me ha gustado de la saga, pero tan guay y siniestro como siempre. No esperaba menos. ♡
Maybe I should have tried book 1 first but I happened on this one by accident.
Despite all the terrible things that happen to the Baudelaires there is always a feeling that they will find a way out and since I hated suspense back then this would have suited me down to the ground.
(Not too sure though about some of the content especially the treatment of "the freaks.")Altogether I can certainly see why the series has so many followers although I do not feel the immediate need to rush out and read any more myself.
3.75* Similarly to book eight, this wasn't the most memorable in the series but I absolutely loved the intensity of the ending! I thought the kids starting to question and doubt themselves and their actions was really interesting too! This was a slightly drearier book in tone than the others, but it worked in connection to the Baudelaire's reclining and undoubtably exhausting situation! I can feel the ending getting closer and I'm looking forward to finally (hopefully) getting some answers soon!!
😱😱😱 Oh no! A literal cliffhanger! Don't worry, Sunny! I'll rescue you!Onward Swifty, to Book the Tenth!
A brilliant little book from the series. Quite different than the previous books, as the kids go on their own adventure other than following a guardian.
The simple answer, "Not if they want bad things!" never seems to occur to her.It occurs to the Baudelaires, of course.
In the course of trying to persuade her to give them what they need, they're forced to admit that in spite of their best intentions, they seem to be sliding down a slippery moral slope:"Haven't you ever found yourself doing something you never thought you'd do?""I guess so," Klaus said, and turned to his sisters.
If you've been following my reviews, you may notice that the ratings have been dropping, mainly because I feel that the story is becoming a little too repetitive and that there would be some really simple solutions to the children's problems.
I'm still finishing this series, but my hopes are going down that there will ever be satisfactory answers and the plots aren't as intriguing and fascinating as the earlier books.
“I don't care who falls in!” announced the pimpled man. "To me, a woman in a turban is just as freaky as a two headed person. I'm not prejudiced!”
Every time I read one of these books I feel like I'm instantly transported to my childhood and it's the most wonderful feeling in the world! This is one of my favourite books out of the series, I'm a sucker for anything based in a carnival. It's been so long since I first read this book that I had forgotten most of the plot, I was actually quite surprised by the twist at the ending and now I'm quite looking forward to getting started on the next book to see how the Baudelaires manage to get out of this one!
Isso tá ficando MUITO sinistro, gente! Só nesse livro percebi que essa série já teve mais morte do que muitas outras adultas que eu li 😅 Eu já tô me coçando pra saber as respostas dos mistérios!
~3.5 stars~Sorry for all of these half stars lol That's just the way I rate stuff sometimes :PAs for the review, it's gonna be short lol I feel like we know more about a certain organization and I am intrigued to find out what will happen in the 10th book next!
Yeah, I know that was terrible...I'm sorry xD lol) It's the same old same old with the adults in this book though...they are all pretty stupid...and the things they allow to happen to the Baudelaire children are horrible!
I won't get into details, but let's just say they can be pretty cruel...
Mini Review: Might be my favorite so far! This one finally abandons the formulaic plot of its predecessors. The setting of the carnival was one of my favorites, all in all really happy with this one!
Reread.
The series continues with its breath of fresh air, revealing more information of the mistery regarding the children.The only complain is that it acts more as an explanation and bridge to the next books than anything. The good thing is that it ends like never before in this series.Full interested ahead with this series
With the Baudelaire orphans, it was as if their grief were a very heavy object that they each took turns carrying so that they would not all be crying at once, but sometimes the object was too heavy for one of them to move without weeping.
3.7/5 ~ Nothing too crazy happens in here, I thought the carnival part was way more used, instead it’s just a very vague background except for a few elements, freaks, fortune telling and lions. The story doesn’t make much progress either but as I always say these are very fun and light books and this helped me during these hard days✌🏻
Hard to believe that this guy can continue to think up new and even more unfortunate events for thes
"But the sad truth is that the truth is sad, and that what you want does not matter. A series of unfortunate events can happen to anyone, no matter what they want."The Baudelaire orphans have found themselves in a very dangerous situation and the only way to survive is to disguise themselves. They come so close to discovering answers, but those answers are ripped away from them. Overall, The Carnivorous Carnival is a ridiculous and absurd installment in The Series of Unfortunate Events and I wouldn't have it any other way. Full series review: https://todaysechos.wordpress.com/201...
Eu indo pro próximo livro:
There are only four books left. I'm going to give myself a break after reading 9 of them!
Snicket’s tone throughout is apologetic, sincere and matter-of-fact as he relates the unfortunate events in the children’s lives; his imaginative and even surreptitiously educational style will hold much appeal for younger readers, as will the persistent silliness of adults.
As always, the alliterative titles are delightful and Brett Helquist provides some wonderfully evocative illustrations.This instalment sees the Baudelaires poked fun at by the Carnival audience, learning that one of their parents may have survived that fatal fire, discovering a fraud, narrowly escaping the a mob’s violent urges and, against their better judgement, joining forces with Count Olaf.
Will they be able to catch up with Count Olaf, his cronies and their baby sister Sunny?
Zanimljivo ali još uvijek se ne nazire kraj patnji siročića Baudelaire
