https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12504224-the-green-archer
It’s been probably more than 25 years since I last picked up an Edgar Wallace novel, and – by the way – how dismally it strikes my consciousness that I am talking of a quarter of a century here, but let’s get back to the book.Now, Edgar Wallace is probably more widely known in Germany than in England, and anybody my generation will remember those Tuesday nights when the ZDF was showing those deliciously campy black and white movies – mind you, I didn’t think them campy at the time but took them seriously – starring Joachim Fuchsberger, Heinz Drache, Klaus Kinski and, unforgettably, Eddie Arent – movies which were, more or less carefully based on crime novels written by Wallace, and which often began with a string of shots, followed by a steel-like voice proclaiming, “Hallo, hier spricht Edgar Wallace.”Re-reading “The Green Archer” surely was a guilty pleasure for me even though Wallace’s style is infinitely less intriguing than that of American hard-boiled writers such as Cain or, especially, but then we’re talking of a poet here: Chandler.
A fine adventure/ghost story, but with an unfortunate amount of racism about a Eurasian character. Not unexpected in a book this age, but not nice, either.
Loved it. I can't wait to read more by this author.
3.5Entertaining old school mystery. A Project Gutenberg Australia eBook
Your mom has not been happy.It's a week-night, it's late, way past your bed time.
Your friends told you about this really neat movie on the late show.
But upstairs, you hear your mom moving about.
If she's going to the hall bathroom, you'll probably make it.
If she comes down stairs, you're cooked.Dad's going to be home tomorrow ..you're already in trouble, lot's of trouble.
You listen carefully for her footsteps ..what's she up to, what's going to happen ..to you?It's like that ..nostalgic, ..like goosebumps on a preteen.
This is very good. An amoral rich man who likes to build dungeons in his house meets his match: An archer dressed entirely in green.It is actually very suspenseful. If you like Wallace, you will like this one.
Excellent mystery, kidnapping, secret passages!
A long novel, by Edgar Wallace's standards, about twice as long as his usual. Lots of incident a ridiculously convoluted denunciation and great fun throughout.
Abel Bellamy is a very rich, very nasty American who has settled at Garre Castle in England.
There has been a legend about a green archer of Garre Castle since the middle ages.
Suddenly, after Bellamy takes up residence, people speak again of seeing a green archer about Garre Castle.
Bellamy locks his doors tightly and obtains savage dogs to prowl the gardens and hallways, but the presence of the green archer still is felt.
Somewhere along the way, perhaps before his dog is lost, one of his henchmen is found out in the garden, shot through the heart with a green arrow.
Now I know where Green Arrow came from. This was an interesting read, but it was far from the most exciting thing I've ever read. It's got a lot of interesting things going on, but really could have used more Green Archer and his trademark brand of justice. Oh, and the main villain is just a bastard.
My father introduced me to Edgar Wallace books a long time ago and I have coveted them ever since. The Green Archer is one of his best. Love his writing style. And a GREAT mystery. VERY different from today's style in mystery writing. EMINENTLY ENJOYABLE.
Politically Incorrect? Yes, but the mystery is quite a ride. So do we forget this story, rewrite it like Twain's overuse of the n word? Could that be considered as bad as Book Burnings and Banned Books? Or do we sit back and say, we've not come far, but at least we've taken a step forward.
These days, many people poo-poo Edgar Wallace, but the guy could really write exciting stories. Loved this one!
