https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/515885.But_Not_the_Hippopotamus
A tragic story of exclusion, bigotry and prejudice, while ultimately celebrating redemption. A satisfying read, but one I feel is let down by the lack of any attempt to explore the motives of the characters. Why were the moose and the goose together having juice without the hippopotamus? We do not find out. Without wanting to post spoilers, I will also add that the denouement contains a twist worthy of M. Night Shyamalan.
(For those of you without kids, the answer to each question is yes.)On each rereading of this beloved children's book I am bothered by the isolation of the hippopotamus, and later, the armadillo.
And armadillos carry leprosy.And now parents face a new difficult question: Are young children ready to learn the truth about hippos and dillos?
After reading But Not the Hippopotamus to my children for six of the longest years of my life, I strongly believe that this book is far more harmful to the adult who reads it than the child who hears it.
This hippopotamus was so cute. I'm reading this again!
This is a great poem about the trials of being a non-standard person in a world where everyone else rhymes. I think kids can get a lot out of this little board book, and think Sandra Boynton is a genius when it comes to short and pointed poems and her drawings accompany the story nicely, despite their simple cartoony style.My Daughter and I still feel sorry for the armadillo though.
The book is well written and illustrated, but it's a horrible plot. It was a great book until the very last page. Spoiler alert, the Hippo is excluded the whole book but then is included in the end. But then they exclude the Armadillo instead! This could have been a 5 star book about including everyone if the author had simply left out the last page, but instead became about excluding the less fortunate. I've decided to cover up the last page and create an alternate ending so that I don't hate this story.
I personally love this book and I'm an adult.
It's a cute story about what other animals do, but not the hippo who doesn't seem to be allowed to do anything except at the end she does do something.
She kills all the other animals because they were mean to her.
I'm joking.
The story is very amusing.
My daughter loved this book when she was younger.
Boynton's books aren't very babyish.
She uses words like "cavort" "bog" which you typically don't see in toddler and preschool books and I like that.
It's good for expanding a child's vocabulary.
Why is this five stars you ask? Well, if I could have one wish, it would be for peace on earth. But if I could have two wishes, it would be peace on earth and a recording of Small Change era Tom Waits reading this. It totally fits as a song of his. At least, it did when I tried to do the voice.
Easy read. Finished it in one day
What I learned: anthropomorphized animals are not as exclusionary and mean as they may sometimes seem at first. Also, animals are cute. And "goose" and "moose" rhyme with "juice."
We are called to empathise with the heroine* of the story, as she watches the "cool kids" around her engaging in various activities.As is common with extremely shy people, it's not immediately apparent that she wishes to join in, so it's understandable that perhaps the others initially mistook her lack of participation as disinterest.Thankfully, the others collectively figure out what's really going on, and they seek to remedy the situation.My parents gave a copy of this book to my daughter, who was but a toddler at the time.While I had long been familiar with Ms. Boynton's illustrations, this was the first book of hers I read, and is thus the benchmark against which all others are compared.
I loved reading this to my daughter when she was young, and read it again this year after reading the disappointing new sequel. Still love it! The combination of words and pictures is cute, charming and delightful.
A cute Boynton book with a story line that all my children could enjoy, even if it was just to be able to repeat the word hippopotamus over and over again. Not one of our all time favorites, but adorable illustrations and one we all enjoyed.
Really thick pages. Good for miniature fingers. A tale of odd pairings and outcasts, with a sequel hinted at involving an armadillo.
My 2 year old says: "It was amazing. I really liked it." At the end, he says "the armadillo is sad because he wants to come. The armadillo wants to cry." Hugs.
The more I think about this, the more I think the rhyme scheme is a plot device.
More excellent Boynton. The best thing about this one is that Iris unfailing breaks into a HUGE grin when the animal pack comes scurrying back for the hippo. It must be because of our delivery; it's the cutest.
Boynton has a way with words and illustrations. It is a fun sing song rhyme that works in whatever format it is in.
A rhyming board book in which groups of animals seem to be excluding the hippopotamus from their fun, but ask her to join in by story's end. A fun read aloud for the Toddler and PreK crowd.
Aw this is cute! It has the fun rhymes and the shy hippo. Not to give away the ending but I truly laughed out loud and then immediately went "awww"🙈
One of my all-time favs, didn't like the end, so I rewrote the last page with a sticky label to include the armadillo
A hilarious classic!
She is excluded from the activities the other animals are participating in together and each page shows friends doing something together "but not the hippopotamus" in the end the whole group of animals ask if the hippopotamus would like to join them and while she says yes she goes with the group but now the armadillo is left behind.
It is also a great book to teach word choice because the author uses words like "cavort" and "bog" rather than more basic words that would be appropriate for young children.
This is my favorite Sandra Boynton book. It rhymes nicely and flows well. The art is very cute. And it even had things you can ask the little one to count or find in the pictures. And it has a very cute ending. Plus you can even talk about how the characters in it feel and they all wind up modeling fairly good behavior. I highly recommend it.
Mercy likes Doggies better, but this is another cute children's book. Easy to read and get the feel for as the small phrases rhyme while telling the story. This one leaves something to be desired at the end however as the hippopotamus finally joins the group and we find an armadillo in it's place. So... will there another book in the series called But Not The Armadillo?...
Typical of her style, it's fun, easy to read and short, so you can read it to young children and get to the end before they lose interest. I have some objection to the rhyming of "frog" and "hog" with "jog", but not enough to change my general enjoyment of reading this to children. We just mispronounce "jog" and laugh a lot.
Not my favorite Boynton. I know it's supposed to be funny but the ending seemed kinda sad/mean after the otherwise happy resolution. Though I guess we can assume the happy resolution would come later again. Could still be a good teaching tool for including everyone and not making anyone feel left out.
I've been living in the land of board books for the last few months, and Sandra Boynton's are my favorites so far, and this is my favorite of hers. The 5-month old likes them all, but this one is extra special to the sleep-deprived adults who find it very meaningful.
Typical Sandra Boynton. Rhyme, rhythm, cute pictures, and a bit of a sense of humor. Essentially, the hippopotamus is excluded from many activities, until... she's not. The book ends in such a way that there could be a sequel if she chooses, but it's not necessary.
I'm happy the hippo finally got to hang out with friends but the book leaves me feeling sad for the armadillo.
Between Karanina and the boys, I have read this book so many times, and I still think its funny.
