https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/115130.A_Stranger_in_the_Mirror
It was adapted into a television film in 1993 starring Perry King, Lori Loughlin, Christopher Plummer, and Juliet Mills.عنوانها: غریبه ای در آینه؛ غریبه در آینه؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ تاریخ نخستین خوانش: روز هفتم ماه ژانویه سال 1994 میلادیعنوان: غریبه ای در آینه؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: شاهرخ فرزاد، مشخصات نشر: تهران، شیرین، 1373، در 452 ص، چاپ دیگر: تهران، درایت، در 452 ص؛ 1377؛ شابک: 9646370055؛ چاپ دوم درایت 1378؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان سده 20 معنوان: غریبه ای در آینه؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: جعفر صفاری، مشخصات نشر: تهران، ارغوان، 1373؛ در 391 ص؛ عنوان: غریبه در آینه؛ نویسنده: سیدنی شلدون؛ مترجم: معصومه دریاباری، مشخصات نشر: تهران، نشر کستر، 1389؛ در 256 ص؛ شابک: 9786005883022؛ این رمان، داستان زندگی دو هنرپیشه ی خیالی هالیوود، به نامهای: «توبی تمپل» و «جیل کستل» را، بازگو میکند.
This was my first ever Sidney Sheldon book and I loved it.
I felt the passion, the hate, the love, and to be honest, I felt turned on (Blame it on my fourteen year old hormones) at the well-explained sex scenes.Every word made me want to read the next.
Even the prologue made me want to read the whole book that instant.
I loved every minute of reading the book.The last few scenes gave me chills.
It was probably due to the fact I was reading at 11 pm.
It really was great and I can't wait to buy another Sidney Sheldon book.
A Stranger in the Mirror is a story that revolves around the life of two characters, namely Toby Temple and Jill Castle.
Most of the novel is the story of Toby Temple; from the humble beginnings of Toby Temple, to his long struggle to make a mark in Hollywood, his failures, his struggles, his eventual triumph and his rise to the top of show business and becoming an obnoxious star is a fascinating journey.
From revenge to random characters coming back from nowhere to even some paranormal activities, the climax felt like bit of a mess (when the story could have easily ended on a good note, few chapters back).
** spoiler alert ** I could give Sidney Sheldon's books 5 stars without even reading them because I know they're all gonna be great!
The story is absolutely breathtaking!It's about a boy "Toby" and a girl "Jill" who wanted to leave their hometowns to find fame in Hollywood.
The boy forgets about his past and enjoys his success and turns into a jerk.It's like two stories in one book.
The amazing part is, when these two "Toby and Jill" get together in the last few chapters...
So, buy it, read it, and thank me later ;)
“You don't know what can happen tomorrow. Life is like a novel, isn't it? It's filled with suspense. You never know what's going to happen until you turn the page.” ― Sidney SheldonA Stranger in the MirrorThe story presented a trashy look at Hollywood with an awesome twist in the tail. Good for easy reading in the rain~This book has a promising start and a successful ending. It haunted me just like any Sheldon books I have read. Another awesome novel, Sheldon.P.S.: There's too much explicit content in this book but...it's sheldon's so, no worries! hahaha! ;p
লাইফে পরথম শিডনী শেলডনের বই পড়ি কাজিন রিচার থেকে নিয়ে। সেই ববই সমপরক এ সে যা বলছিল সেটা এখন ও কানে বাজে। এই বই পড়তে গিয়ে মনে হল ওর কথাটা খুব একটা ভুল না। কাজিনের এপিক বানীটা ছিল "আর বলিস না কিছু হইলেই তারা বিছানায় যেতে পছনদ করে " :3রিভিউ শেষ ১৮+ রিভিউ দেবার পর ও বই কযামন না বুঝলে আমার করার কিছু নাই । ২.৫ মাগার গুডরিডস যতদিন আধাআধি রেটিং যুকত না করছে ততদিন পূরন সংখযা দিয়েই কাজ চালাতে হবে।
লাইফে প্রথম শিডনী শেলডনের বই পড়ি কাজিন রিচার থেকে নিয়ে। সেই ববই সম্পর্ক এ সে যা বলছিল সেটা এখন ও কানে বাজে। এই বই পড়তে গিয়ে মনে হল ওর কথাটা খুব একটা ভুল না। কাজিনের এপিক বানীটা ছিল "আর বলিস না কিছু হইলেই তারা বিছানায় যেতে পছন্দ করে " :3রিভিউ শেষ ১৮+ রিভিউ দেবার পর ও বই ক্যামন না বুঝলে আমার করার কিছু নাই । ২.৫ মাগার গুডরিডস যতদিন আধাআধি রেটিং যুক্ত না করছে ততদিন পূর্ন সংখ্যা দিয়েই কাজ চালাতে হবে।
Enjoyable, entertaining, unputdownable and amazingly written. The title is intriguing. Characters were full of suspense. I enjoyed this book very much.
I didn’t quiet remember what I liked with this book except that I cried to the uber tragedy romantic ending scene.Yeah!
LOLWhy I liked it:Pity with the girl.Sweet revengeI cryAnd cryAnd cry...Why I didn’t:I’m now afraid going Hollywood.
[Rocks landing to my direction.....bang!][They said that this is typical Sheldon's work so this might be the first and last book Ill read by him.]Just stick with what I felt with last six years.But If I reread this I’ll probably will not have the same rate that I give it now.
I am in the process of re-reading my Sidney Sheldon book collection.
I haven't read these books for many years and thought it would fun to go back try them again.
I'd actually give this book somewhere between 2-3 stars.
This book has just about everything...starting with poor humble beginnings to pride,greed,revenge,sex - a lot of sex,consequences of choices made....and much more.
I don't think this is one of Sheldon's better plots.
It was very easy for me to put down the book or quickly become distracted by other things, which is unsually for me when I am reading.
This is bit different than his other books but I really enjoyed it.Toby grew up with an idea that he was born to be famous.
Soon, both realize that the only place that gives them what they want is Hollywood.Both of them have to struggle to reach to the top.
Soon Toby becomes the superstar and the king of Hollywood but Jill is still struggling until one day they cross each other's path.
The hounding carries on until they come together again, and until their love story is written forever by the stars that are only visible to soft night wind and the timeless sea.Sidney Sheldon gets 5 out of 5 again from me.Published on http://pchhantyal.blogspot.in/2014/10...
In this one, two young aspiring performers have simultaneous stories.
This one gets three stars rather than just one because the story genuinely surprised me and it was immensely readable and enjoyable to me.
There was stuff, especially in the last third, that I simply did not see coming and I loved how Sheldon pulled it all together.
It's like cotton candy - I'll have forgotten the characters' names by next week (actually, I had to look up Jill's last name just to write this review).
But I love cotton candy.
Sheldon enjoyed - that's just a saying, mind, I'm not sure he was even aware - a brief super fame in Sweden in the early 80's and his books were published in large, low-price hardbacks with fashion model covers that had nothing at all to do with the content.
Unfortunately for me and my friends (who for the longest time thought he was a woman for some reason), this coincided with our early to mid teens and we devoured his sex-spiced outings.
And I'm sure we loved the fact that we were reading real books!
Big and heavy also (due to large print and margins, but hey...).
Well..its my 5th Sidney Sheldon book.
I could not rate less than 5 stars in any of his books so far.
Here, Toby Temple captures the title "the most funniest man in the world" though he passed through many loathsome folks in his path.
On the other hand, Jill Castle who also had an ambition but partial talent, uses Toby to reach her heights.
Selfish love, revenge, hatred, betraying were brought out in a marvelous way.
The tale was really interesting that i was reading contiguously skipping my appetite.
The rapid situations and suspense did not allow me to guess the climax at all.
I actually read the version that is translated into the Russian language. The book is a good read, but it doesn't really get too interesting until the last few chapters. It seemed to drag on a bit, however it leaves you wanting to know what is going to happen and WHEN it will finally happen! All in all, it was alright.
The reader 'grows' with the characters, visualising them change and discover as they reach the epitome of Business, and lead to their respective destruction.The author takes special care to paint a mirror image of one's own self, as we drive through life taking it head on!
a dish best served coldit was a bad idea reading the last 3 in succession
I read this a while back. While the book is very well written, there was a depressing air to the entire book. Even now as I remember vividly the storyline, it feels me with sadness. Both the hero and heroine in the book went through so many horrible events in the book. I really do hope that Hollywood is better than how it is portrayed in the book.
foul
what a perception! the master of authors..
This story is about Toby Temple who is a superstar, the world's funniest man. He will make you laugh if you are an audience. He will make you go through a lot of emotions if you are reading his life story. Go for it.“But a comedian is naked. His only weapon was his wit.” ― A Stranger In The Mirror
The plot follows the life and times of Toby Temple, a youngster born in the family of a German butcher who apparently is of no good and his mother has held the mantle of the house for a very long time.
He finally makes it big.On the other hand, Jill Castle a.k.a. Josephine Czinski, born to a poor family (she gave a hard time being born) never wanted to do anything extraordinary.
She used every possible way, every single avenue, but still she couldn’t make it past the bylanes of Hollywood.Enter Toby Temple into Jill Castle’s life.
Toby menjadi terasing dan kesepian di tengah-tengah keberhasilannya.Di sisi lain, novel ini menceritakan nasib Josephine Czinsky seorang gadis cantik keturunan Polandia miskin yang dibesarkan dalam keluarga yang agamis.
Josephine remaja mengalami patah hati karena David yang dicintainya menikah dengan orang lain.
Josephine yang kemudian berganti nama menjadi Jill kemudian putus asa berusaha menjual diri kepada sutradara atau orang2 film untuk mendapatkan peran di berbagai film.Nasib akhirnya mempertemukan Jill dengan Toby yang saling kesepian.
Namun setelah menikah, Jill memanfaatkan posisinya sebagai istri Toby yang bintang film kelas atas untuk melakukan aksi balas dendam terhadap orang-orang perfilman yang selama ini telah menindasnya.
Jill dengan rasa cintanya merawat Toby dan timbullah keajaiban dimana Toby bisa sembuh dari stroke.
Meanwhile, we have Jill Castle, her upbringing was very tough, with a fiercely religious mother, she struggled with blinding headaches all her life.
The majority of the story is about the early lives of these 2 main characters.
Maybe we aren't really supposed to like these people.Toby becomes an arrogant, rude man who uses people to get where he wants, and at the same time is incredibly lonely.
She also uses people to get what she wants and in that way, the 2 characters are made for each other, however can a relationship like that survive?
And while we know this story will end in a tragic way, I had to complete it!It is compelling, intriguing, well-informed, and in the end, justified - for we sure don't want to have a negative feeling like "They got away..."And Sheldon has taken care of that.
We know them like we saw them...
And this story haunted me...than any book I ever read.And though I felt depressed by the story line, I thought about it a lot and knew that this one is a great book, because, it doesn't give false hopes, and it is one that made me kept reading though the characters weren't really the nicest persons in the world.A deep story that says truth isn't a sweet fruit always...
This is a wonderful book which I would recommend to people of all ages.
A girl has so many dreams for herself and with little help of the resourceful people, she could have achieved all her wishes and lived the life which she dreamed of.
Perhaps because, in life , love is the most important element which can make us feel complete.
Any amount of success and glamour appear shallow and cold if there is no one to love us.
This book takes a cyclonic ride from extreme poverty to international stardom and shows that if you have wronged someone, you can never ever expect a happy ending.
Esta obra estuvo tan fascinante que escribiré dos mensajes a públicos de diferentes áreas.PARA LECTORES: Es una historia muy bien desarrollada, la prosa de Sheldon es rica en detallar los sucesos.
Te enamoras de los personajes y de cierta manera, el libro te hace sentir un famoso más en el mundo del espectáculo.PARA LOS QUE SE DEDICAN O QUIEREN DEDICAR AL MUNDO TEATRAL: Se sentirán identificados y tomarán consejos que Sidney nos presenta a lo largo del libro.
Excelente para todos aquellos que quieren perder el miedo en escena, aprenden del mejor artista de todos los tiempos (literario): Toby.Me encantó todo en general, no encontré ningún detalle malo, todo está excelente.
This is a remarkable book--my favorite of Sheldon's and probably his best (of the ones I've read--I've not read them all), and I think it shows that he's underrated as a novelist.
His content tends to be shallow and materialistic and glitzy, which is typically not my favorite; however, beneath that in Sheldon's books, there is often so much well-plotted storytelling-cleverness that I can overlook any shallowness, like with this book.I'm not going to give away the most-excellent plot because I hate spoiling and spoilers.
But the development of the discomfiting events here is fabulous--and is just my kind of development in the book's middle parts.
Mixed feelings about this one, certainly. Familiar style, some sort of familiar events in most of his books yet manages to capture my attention time and time again. I weep for Jill and Toby. I pity the ambitious little girl, Josephine.There are so many rights and wrongs that sometimes one tends to get lose in them.You lose yourself as the darkness surrounds....but I couldn't say that this is my most fav from him. I didn't enjoy the central idea much.
This book was a made-for-television miniseries, and I would expect nothing less from Sidney Sheldon. That said, the entire freakin' story hinged upon a bizarre plot point that was WAY beyond believable. Honestly, 2 stars is a stretch.
I read this one long ago...I remember "If Tomorrow Comes" because of the "YES!" feeling I had at the end...I remember this one because of the "yucky" feeling I had at the end. I obviously got involved with the characters, because I was almost depressed by the ending. Least favorite.
