https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/330760.The_Subterraneans
I am an admitted Kerouac fan and I think most people who read Kerouac begin and end with On the Road, which was of course groundbreaking in its day.
I loved On the Road and have read it repeatedly on and off over decades.
Consider that an interracial relationship would have been pretty radical in the 50's, and both Kerouac's alter ego, Leo and Mardou both realize this.What struck me was the utter nakedness of Kerouac in this completely stream of consciousness book.
This is a completely introspective book and he spared himself nothing.While some will find the wild prose off putting, I loved it.
Kerouac's kind of a dick in this one, whining and chasing after this black girl Mardou all through the book. Once she caves in to his non-existent charms he dumps her like he's Tommy Lee or something. When he's not crying for her to take him back he's busy fetishizing her blackness like she's a pickaninny doll and then drunkenly makes in-crowd jokes to his pals about Buddha and Boddhisatva. What a shithead.
A profoundly sad novel. I fall in and out of love with Kerouac's prose, but his story rips your heart out. It was recommended to me by a colleague who told me that this book is about "people who make decisions by not making any choices."
"Los subterráneos" es una música para ser oída de noche, con sus largos fraseos que suben y bajan, bocanadas de aire etílico y versos que estallan contra la ciudad: San Francisco, ciudad de maricas, poetas y vagabundos.Tened cuidado de no perderos en esta ciudad subterránea, de andar por la calle equivocada, en la que todo envejece mal: el canto por el amor perdido, la energía sexual que fluye por las páginas, o ese amor pagano.
Bajo el sopor de la música nocturna, te extravías en cualquier portal, fuera del abrigo de las largas noches de alcohol y sexo.
The Subterraneans is much more than a romance in the vein of “He’s just not that into you.” The relationship itself is something of taboo in the 1950s, Kerouac’s style of prose experimental, and his description of the beat culture in this book sets in motion the evolution of Beats to Hippies and, now, the Hipsters.
Kerouac never makes a solid attempt at examining how the relationship between him and Alene could be viewed as taboo by the dominant culture of 1950’s America.
It feels a little indulgent, all the moping, kind of a prod for us to start a Leo pity party that makes me glad when they do get together, because he steps away from the pathetic for a while when he’s with her.I think I would label this one of the truest love stories I’ve ever read.
By the end, I’m also more inclined to indulge Leo in his mopey sadness, because I’ve seen his ambivalence in action (want the girl, but jealousy and wanting other girls and a certain amount of self-sabotage get in the way), and it makes me a little sad, too.
Kerouac da en çok okumak istediğim, o olsun diğerleri olmasa da olur dediğim ‘babe’ Beat içinde, kendime en yakın gördüğüm, kendimi gördüğüm, hele ki mektuplardan sonra.Ginsberg ve Jack’in birbirinine yolladığı mektupları (ithaki yay) okumaktayım -2 yıldır- ancak ilk kitapların bitirildiği döneme girince, artık kitapları okumalıyım dedim, paralel götürüp daha iyi özümsemek istiyorum çünkü Beat dediğiniz şey yazarların, özellikle Jack için birebir kendisidir, yarı kurgu olsa da otobiyografiktir eserleri.
Urban legend has it that On the Road is the primary example of Kerouac's "spontaneous prose," but the description works much better for The Subterraneans, for better and for worse.
It's an honest and accurate picture of the protagonist's (and I think it's fair to say, Kerouac's) consciousness, and you can learn a lot about masculine consciousness (of a certain time and place), but still....There's almost no sense that Kerouac took women seriously as intellectual/creative or for that matter sexual equals.
(See Joyce Johnson's brilliant Minor Characters for an incisive take on women and the beats; she did some time as Kerouac's girlfriend).
There they are -- the Subterraneans -- drunk as skunks while they burble on about literature and their love lives.
Jack Kerouac (Leo Percepied in the book) wants nothing more than spend all his hours with these pseudo-intellectual lowlifes, but at the same time attempt to maintain a relationship with Mardou Fox, a young black woman.
The Subterraneans is the story of this relationship and how it winds to a close with Jack deciding in the end he wanted life on his own boozy terms.
The pity of it is that Jack really appears to have loved Mardou, and Mardou was worth the trouble.
Occorre addestrare l'orecchio.È anche vero, però, che Kerouac scrive nel 1958 e che in mezzo secolo di cose ne possono succedere: ciò che era osceno allora, può non esserlo più oggi.
Se infatti i romanzi della trilogia narrano davvero la storia di una generazione, le contraddizioni della società statunitense del primo dopoguerra, lanciata verso l’affluenza e il consumismo e nello stesso tempo intrisa di un conformismo politico e morale in stridente contrasto con i bisogni da lei stessa generati, narrano davvero del disagio giovanile rispetto a tali contraddizioni e del tentativo di superarle e negarle attraverso una liberazione individuale fatta di viaggio, droga, alcool e sesso, e delle disillusioni rispetto a tale tentativo, I sotterranei narra invece una vicenda strettamente privata, che sia pure immersa nell’atmosfera di quella generazione, di quella cultura alternativa non riesce, a parer mio, a divenire un tassello del grande affresco kerouachiano.I sotterranei fu scritto da Kerouac nel 1953, sembra di getto, subito dopo la fine della sua breve ma intensa storia d’amore con Alene Lee, una ragazza di colore che frequentava il giro degli intellettuali beat nel Greenwich Village di New York.
Puede que, al menos dentro de lo que leído, Kerouac sea el escritor más inocente de todos: genuinamente interesado por la diferencia, por el ritmo frenético de su vida y la de los demás, por las nuevas formas y maneras de ser y vivir y, por qué no, por las nuevas potencias narrativas que su pluma estaba siendo capaz de generar.
Sin embargo, me suele molestar un poco (puede que esto sea un rasgo más de su inocencia) su provincialismo; de hecho, Kerouac pareciera ser un vaquero texano gringo más (a pesar de ser canadiense)...uno de esos que cree que el orden instituido en el lugar más recóndito del sur norteamericano viene siendo el orden "divino" o, mejor, el orden "americano".
They didn't mention the author or the name of the book, but location questions such as 'philosophy?' and 'biography?' and 'just plain fiction?' encouraged me to find their aisle and say, simply, "I'll take it." (Paperbacks were on sale that day for a quarter.) At that time, I had just finished Burrough's "Junky" and had just started on Ginsberg's poetry.
Kerouac's impact (along with Burroughs/Ginsberg/Cassady) on the impending 1960's sexual revolution is arguably immense.
And arguably, Walt Whitman had been there and back by the close of the 1870s.
And Burroughs!
And Ginsberg!
I had not read any Kerouac for 30 years and saw this one in the library -written in his 'spontaneous prose' style which requires a lot of concentration to read and absorb.
Set in San Francisco, with friends like Ginsberg and Burroughs disguised with pseudonyms, it tells of a love affair with a half-negro, half-Cherokee woman.
The narrative is dominated by his drinking and his frustration at not being published is also obvious, and his alter-ego, Leo, is not a sympathetic character.
Reputedly written in 3 days, there are some great phrases hidden in the narrative style - I particularly liked 'othergenerationey' as an adjective.
Well that is the riddle of Kerouac isn't it, because in the end he did succumb to those delusions and paranoia, and escape to his mom to be taken care of.One thing about some of the most powerful Kerouac work is that it is not about an uplifting story, it is not about having some good underling message or meaning of life.
But whether it is real or uplifting it is the true story, if not of events, then of the emotions of Jack Kerouac.
Spanning over 93 pages, this form of writing - as a reader - is quite a hard concept to pierce, with pragmatic sentences and an abundance of block sequences making the novel extremely hard to engage with from the outset.Leo Percipied (Jack Kerouac) tells a story - that in a nutshell - consists of jumping from bars around San Fransisco with his cliquey group, comprising of other aspiring writers of the time, Adam Moorad and Frank Carmody (Allan Ginsberg and William S.
Maybe that's the whole point of the exercise Kerouac was attempting to design, but there's a fine line in self-indulging and this book crosses it on a regular basis.
In my spin through Kerouac's books, my friend said after reading On The Road and The Dharma Bums that my next task should be The Subterraneans.Apparently, he wrote this 110-page book in only three days.
While the bulk of On The Road was written in this way, making it an American classic, I have to say that for this book, it didn't work as well.Here, Kerouac shows a more poetic than prosaic style.
Perhaps its my own style of writing and reading, but that grates on me.If you love Kerouac's other books, I suggest a trip through The Subterraneans.
Jack Kerouac, for all his iconic writing and cliche beatnick status, still manages to capture the life and thoughts of the younger generation who were simply looking for any sort of adventure.
Kerouac shows their growth and takes his readers through the realization that things aren't like they expected them to be.
Somehow, though, even though this sort of melancholic epiphany seems to be common for his endings (at least in the books of his I have read), he manages to leave me with a sense of understanding, to leave me with the feeling that everything is alright.
He approaches lost-love like an experience.
Overall, I really liked this book.
I highly suggest this book.
The setting of the story was moved to San Francisco at the behest of the publisher.The book tells the story of the love, and its end, between Leo Percepied, the Kerouac character, and Mardou Fox. Mardou is half Cherokee and half black.
She has gone from lover to lover among the Bohemia of San Francisco until she meets up with Leo.The book shows some of Kerouac's understanding of his own character.
The protagonists of Jack Kerouac's The Subterraneans and Richard Brautigan's  Sombrero Fallout  (both versions of their respective authors) have lost or will lose a love interest. This loss will serve as the catalyst for the text's composition. Kerouac's The Subterraneans ends, like Gertrude Stein's  The Autobiography of Alice B. Toklas , with the assertion that they, the author, will record or have recorded these events, thereby creating a text that seems to write itself. Brautigan's Sombrero F
Whereas Kerouac's The Subterraneans is an exercise in style, Brautigan's Sombrero Fallout is more substantial than one would gather from its simplistic style.
The discarded story embodies the neglect that the protagonist (an unnamed American humorist) must feel following his separation from Yukiko (his Japanese ex-girlfriend).
Kerouac based Mardou Fox on African and Native American intellectual Alene Lee. Brautigan based Yukiko on Japanese musician Anne Kuniyuki.
By which I mean to ask, is it possible for these men to truly know or love these women when they are so preoccupied with their superficial attributes, never pausing to consider the experience of a Japanese woman in America, or an African and Native American woman in America.
Kerouac is very popular, but is going to be difficult for me; this book isn't one of his most hyped ones; it's a break-up story.
Honestly, I think I only liked his girlfriend (ex) Mardou Fox and his best friend Adam.
Throughout, Leo rambles on about how he wants Mardou but is constantly evading or mistreating her, and I didn't understand the concept of why.
Современные писатели, с сохранившейся тенденцией к именно битнической методике письма, душу бы продали за талант Керуака, он рисует настоящие полотна из самых простых и обыденных вещей и не раз - не один раз умудряется проникнуть во что-то, близкое к их сути.
Я считаю, если, допустим, выбор стоит - читать ли Керуака или любого другого американца его лет, то выбора как самой идеи тут быть не должно.
La vida de Jack Kerouac, y por extensión la del resto de los beatniks, fue tan interesante y divertida que no necesitan crear personajes para escribir libros; ellos mismos se bastan y se sobran para crear historias.
Este es uno de esos libros perfectos para leer fumando en el suelo del baño a las 2 de la madrugada (lo cual he hecho en más de una ocasión, a decir verdad).
La verdad es que poco hay de esa inspiración en Los Subterráneos, una novela mucho más sencilla y con pretensiones mucho menores que las que parece haber en En El Camino.
Debería haber un poco de los beatniks en cada uno de nosotros.
This is the third book by Kerouac I have read, and without fail, they all have an unusual raw emotional gravity about them.
This book is short burst of linguistic invention--supposedly written in only three days, and it reads as such.
It does not match either On the Road or The Town and the City in terms of overall narrative power, but is a strangely compelling book after you adjust to Kerouac's fevered prose style.
The Subterraneans is sometimes difficult to read--Kerouac can go for pages without paragraph or punctuation--but does become more manageable as the book nears conclusion.
The narrative itself wasn't all that exciting; a lot of getting drunk and scoring with women, but not anything substantial that makes a worthwhile story.
After reading "On the Road", "The Dharma Bums", and "The Town and The City" I very much had high hopes for this book too.
The only problem is that it didn't deliever the raw excitement and adventure of "On the Road" or the self reflective loneliness of "Dharma Bums", or the emotion of "Town and the City".
Some people might enjoy it, and I do recommend it for its uniqueness of style, but as a story as a whole it lacks connectivity and direction.
I think from most of the books I have read, the ones from the beat generation are the most interesting.
He has a group of friends that pretty much do nothing more then sit around and drink and smoke Tea aka Pot. It is a beautiful set up haha.
Then he meets this beautiful girl Mardou and he falls in love, but at first she wants nothing to do with him.
I had to read it though because I hadn't finished A Clockwork Orange and needed another book to report on.
This book left me with nothing, So I wouldn't recommend it.
I thought Kerouac had gotten lazy and was just writing whatever the hell popped into his mind-- and he his.
"The Subterraneans" is a book about a 3 month fling between Kerouac and a young black woman.
Kerouac's writing is tender and moving; one gets the feeling he really cares about humanity and people in general.
I really feel that with this book Kerouac captured a "fling" type of relationship perfectly: the intense first love, the passionate fights, the irrationality of love, Kerouac does a fantastic job nailing all of this down.
The formatting really sucks for this book; it is hard to read--like literally hard to read.
Knitting with black yarn, for instance, or the novel "Nausea," of which I could not pass two pages.
My reason for getting queasy with this novel, however, requires no exotic explanation.
Poor grammar!
A whirlwind of ideas, a maelstrom of images rushing towards the reader to allow him or her to experience the narrator's emotions and reactions.
This approach may have worked, had these emotions and reactions been beyond the superficial.
None of the characters seemed motivated by anything beyond sex; it was, in fact, dubitable if even sex motivated them.
In grammar, plot, and narrative, it was deficient, and dare I say it?
I like this, though:...
– “I have this balloon now – I don’t need you any more – goodbye – goo away – leave me alone” ...Kerouac was a mad driven genius who flamed out young.
With the smugness of hindsight, let's not lose sight of the fact that the man changed the course of American literature with prose like this.
Entre pausas (de otros dos libros por párrafo) logré completar esta obra.
¿O como cualquier otra?) que termina poniendo al protagonista en la friendzone, O Discordia.Tanta borrachera me hizo odiar mi gusto por una buena cerveza de vez en cuando, pues temo que terminaré así, como un vil subterráneo que a veces es difícil distinguir la muy fina y frágil linea entre un subterráneo y un hipster (con eso de que consideran a un vegano como hipster automáticamente).
Carajo.Y creo entender por qué le ha gustado a mi amigo Miguel Soto, siendo él psicoanalista.
Creo.
