https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34082.The_Waste_Land_and_Other_Writings
To be honest, I don't know if I'll read all of the essays.
But back to Karr, she sets up the "Wasteland" wonderfully, explaining the importance of Eliot in his time, while at the same time arguing for his accessibility -- and his continuing relevance.
A few notes on poems in this edition: Prufrock, Portrait of a Lady, Preludes, etc., all have snatches and images that are building toward the Wasteland.
Karr essay, same.
Eliot's essays (which make up over half the book), is more of a mixed bag.
But, the catch is that much of it is non-english which means I still can't read it, which means Eliot in his modernist fashion has meta-trolled me, which means that despite the corrections of my original review the rating is unchanged.
With notes With translations this publication of the poem could have easily been a 5 star rating for me.
I will try to review more poetry and essays from the book never-the-less.
For Eliot fans this is a good book to have if you find it cheap, otherwise I would get an anthology with notes by someone OTHER than the author himself.
Q: If you want to read poetry criticism and poetry for 1 year solid, what could be better than an all-in-one like this?A: Selected...
would've been better because #1"The Love Song of J.
I'd love to read it once a day until it's recitable upon request.
The rest of his lines, however—even the pretty "Preludes"—seem like mere practice verses, or dilute self-imitations.and #2i really Really REALLY don't enjoy or benefit from Eliot's critical essays.
I read his "Introduction" but section 1 of "The Perfect Critic" was unbearable.
Eliot's "The Waste Land", in which the possibility of growth can only take place within a culture of tradition and memory, is the greatest poem of the 20th century.
Eliot's poetry and literary criticism are essential bulwarks against philistinism and barbarism.The Waste Land contains an entire chorus of voices.
And the response was the thrilling and quite peculiar movement of modernist literature, music, and poetry."I can connect/Nothing with nothing", Eliot says in The Waste Land.
Eliot constructed a poignant and enduring work out of the fragmentary and impressionistic material that he used to construct this, the greatest poem of the 20th century.
It was so boring and I could only read a few pages a day, actually falling asleep one time.I never came across anything like that before, where a poem is that difficult to understand that they have to tell you "how to read it" so you get something out of it.
And I didn't think it was worth spending my limited time on the computer looking up the meaning of foreign words in a poem that's boring anyway.I didn't read any of the 3rd section of the book, with all the literary criticism.
I always did suck at having to read books I wasn't interested in and writing a report on it!
TS Eliot's The Waste Land is why I've struggled with poetry, yet yearn to understand it. I don't think I'm far enough along in my studies to tackle this. I've read The Waste Land a few times now. Have reread Mary Karr's introduction to it. I understand it is quite innovative and famous and has a host of other wonderful attributes. I'm not getting it so will try it again at some other time in the future.
Read for the Local Author prompt of the Popsugar Reading Challenge. Either I am too stupid to understand these poems, or this is decidedly Not My Thing. Maybe both. I had to force myself to keep turning pages and found the experience wholly unenjoyable. I should have just gone with a William Burroughs book but I wanted to try and branch out into some classics I had never read.
I can appreciate the mastery of poetry but didn't find it moving. Constant researching of obscure references detracted from the reading experience.
I still think Lovesong is as gorgeous and stimulating as ever.This is a small book, but not so easily read.
Hardly anyone denies this claim, but Eliot investigates it and shows why, over several essays, and one begins to understand the feebleness in our present efforts to make our language dance.
There's no denying that in several of Eliot's poems the language dances furiously, though not in all.
Such things add to the understanding of what Eliot did, for it allows the Time of Eliot to override the restriction of time and place in which he lived and thought.
Despite being the titular work, “The Waste Land” is buried in the middle of this edition, sandwiched by other poems and Eliot’s essays.
Or, rather, I felt overwhelmed by all the changes in language and style included as Eliot tries to touch every reference text.As for the essays included at the end, I rather liked “Tradition and the Individual Talent”, which addresses the concept of “newness” in art and how criticism can and should be leveled against an artist.
Why do I sense a link between the speaker/voice of The Waste Land and the character Pink in the movie The Wall?
The book is jammed with images and lines from previous works of art, such as Marvel's "To His Coy Mistress." The landscape of this massive poem is strewn with scattered thoughts and of poetic masterminds but they seem to add up to nothing because modern man can't connect the dots, can't put 2 and 2 together, can't understand that he is being bombarded by other images that distract him from purpose and meaning in life.
His criticism of other poets through time and his search for true artistic poetry and its origin demonstrates his superior level of intellect and insight.
His definition of a poet's mind as a medium in which special feelings are at liberty to enter new combinations demonstrates how easily he could manipulate language to make his points:"The analogy was that of the catalyst.
When the two gases previously mentioned are mixed in the presence of a filament of platinum, they form sulphurous acid.
The mind of the poet is the shred of platinum.
I've spent too long in school and didn't feel comfortable just reading The Waste Land without any major prep work or whatever, and so I diligently read Karr's essay first (because somehow I made it to 30 years old without reading this poem, embarrassing) and she told me to just go ahead and read it and experience it and think about whatever it makes me think about.
Of course there's more to any poem or artwork than our gut reaction, and Karr's essay also helps the novice reader move past their initial impressions into a deeper understanding of what's going.
While reading about myth (Campbell) and also paying attention and suddenly finding references to "the Waste Land" in many places, I decided to sit down and read the whole thing, and in book form not online.
I'm sure I will one day, but I was specifically looking for "The Waste Land" to impact my soul and that's what it did.
I found the introductory essay very helpful--I took the suggested approach of just "listening" to the poems rather than trying to figure out line by line the meaning.
But still, it was frustrating when Eliot broke into Latin or French or various other languages, as then I couldn't fully appreciate either the sound or the meaning.
And the poems are so good that I want to understand.
I at first found his essays tedious, but eventually some of them helped me better understand his own approach to writing poetry.
I'll go back to this book in coming years--one poem at a time, though.

I had always seen this book when I walked into bookshops but had never bothered to pick it up and look at it.
I read it; and now am a devout Eliot follower.
I think "The Love Song of J.
I would not recommend this book to the judgemental of heart, do to the fact that it might change them.
Nor to those who think themselves better than others, for it might make them humble.
This is more than worth its weight in gold, it a precious find, for those who find it, and an even worthier read for those who wish their minds to grow.
The Waste Landnot going to rate this because a) i'll have to reread it for class in a couple of weeks and b) if i give it a 5 stars i'll look pompous and shallow, and any other number below will look equally pompous, who am I to judge this self-proclaimed (ish) masterpiece?
Honestly though, unnecessarily inaccessible, but theres the genius in it too.
I called it a self-proclaimed masterpiece precisely because of its self-aware difficulty, that allows it no other option than to be classified as a piece of 'great' literature, One of The Greats.

I'd only ever read bits and pieces of The Waste Land and a random assortment of his other works, so I figured I might as well sit down and properly read them.I quite enjoyed myself.
I know that The Waste Land is supposed to be massively depressing, and I understand that, I do.
It's just that while the picture that Eliot paints is bleak, he paints it so vividly, and with such hauntingly beautiful colors.
I really appreciated her introduction and felt that she did a fantastic job of setting up Eliot's poems, as well as historically contextualizing his work for the reader.
Eliot's political views are repugnant to say the least, but this collection of poetry and literary criticism is worth your time. The collection includes some of Eliot's most notable early poetry and some literary criticism. I can't say much about the poetry other than I enjoyed it, but the literary criticism also was enjoyable, offering a narrow engagement with the English tradition of literary criticism. It would have been nice to have the volume translate some of the French passages, but overall, worth the read
While I do enjoy poetry (I love Larkin, Petrarch, Baudelaire, Whitman, Dante, and Rimbaud), I just can't find a way into to Eliot. Perhaps it's because the poetry is SO intertextual (and Eliot is aware of that as he appended notes to the Wasteland) that I find it impossible to immerse myself in the actual poem. Instead, I get overwhelmed by the constant flux of languages and literary references. His work certainly references and interweaves varies fascinating sources, but ultimately it's too dense for me.
The Wasteland is the perfect encapsulation of the haunting and incalcuable effect of World War I on literature and life. From the opening lines which mock the jaunty lead to The Canterbury Tales to the final words, a sanskrit invocation to peace and possibly hope, "Shantih, shantih, shantih", Eliot weaves a tapestry of images, words and arresting moments that say so much and give away nothing.And Prufrock is simply the best poem ever...in our poetic lives, we'd all like to be Byron, but we are most likely Prufrock...nervous, introspective and a big, fat coward.
Okay. What? I have no idea what went on here. Even after reading Sparknotes in hopes that it would help me out I just didn't get the meaning and point behind this poem. Perhaps, once it's explained to me then I will appreciate it. But, until then, I will go on thinking that it is a confusing piece of overrated literature. Maybe my professor though, will change my current feelings of the poem, once we analyze it in class. Until then though...I guess modernism just isn't my cup of tea.
i really shouldn't like eliot. he's as pretentious as poets get, and not only that, he's responsible for the musical cats. but he's good at what he does. so freaking good. i swear, prufrock was written from the collected neuroses of every young man and the waste land...well, that's just on its own planet. i don't care what cut you come from in life, if you have any artistic sense in your bones, there's something to be found in eliot's writing.
I loved the all the poems under The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock. Didn't care for the next section: Poems and The Waste Land could have been very interesting if not for being chock-full of obscure references. I would not be opposed to exploring those references and understanding it better at another time in my life, but I simply don't have that kind of time.I glanced over the literary criticisms also included in this book, but they're a bit too textbook for me right now.
Eliot (my partial namesake. My middle name is Elliot after him, which lead to a lot of "what the FUCK, mom?" when I was old enough to read and get Eliot) isn't necessarily as talented a poet as Pound, but he's also slightly less of an anti-Semite. These are the trades one must make when studying Modernist poetry.
Brillaint, haunting, forbidding, difficult, evocative, atmospheric, surreal, erudite, spooky.About as good as poetry gets, in its best places and moments....this is a wonderful collection, worth getting because of the inclusion of some of the essays which are deeply reasoned and pretty well written in their own right....
I remember ploughing through 'The Wasteland' and 'Love song of Arthur J Prufrock' at school, maybe resenting it a little at the time, but always remembering the poems. Lines from them appear to me at the most inopportune moments, so I thought it was time to read them again. Am loving the re-reading.
the poem contains a lot that comes from other poets. fragments put together. like a waste land with bits and pieces of things used in the past. it's not a collage skillfully designed. in the end we are invited to bring our own part to this holy ruin. here t.s. eliot describes the status quo we're in after WW l. we live in a culture of bits and pieces. so no worries. no great expectations either.
