https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262366-one-summer
If you read this book, here’s what you’ll get:Stories of early aviation and how the US was way behind Europe in scheduled commercial air travelThe “sash weight murder” and the rise of the tabloids.
It’s a shame, because I think storytelling is the paramount quality of a good history book.
Bryson covers the many attempts (some doomed) by aviators to win the Orteig Prize for the first nonstop flight between New York and Paris.
Bryson does a nice job of weighing the facts of the case and suggesting further reading.
Bryson mostly follows the larger-than-life Babe Ruth.
Bryson certainly whetted my appetite to do further reading on both.
Even with a well-known figure like Lindbergh, Bryson managed to present an interesting factoid or two that I had missed.
A madman in Michigan blew up a school and killed 44 people in the worst slaughter of children in American history.
Whatever else it was, it was one hell of a summer."I've always loved history, and Bryson does a marvelous job of weaving together different stories and putting events in context.
For example, Prohibition was still going on in 1927, but Bryson goes back to 1920 and explains how it came about.
"The 1920s was in many ways the most strange and wondrous decade in American history, and nothing made it more so than Prohibition.
For example, he doesn’t just tell the story of Lindbergh’s historic flight and of his subsequent fame, he also lays out in a succinct manner how America had been trailing the world in aviation up until that point as well as how it changed things afterwards.It’s that context that makes this more than just a list of events, and he also goes to some effort to add depth in several places like describing how horrifyingly racist American society was in those days with the Ku Klux Klan enjoying a reemergence while even supposedly high-brow publications like The New Yorker would casually use ethnic slurs.
I know I'm Johnny-come-lately on the Bill Bryson bandwagon, but I am fast becoming a full-fledged fanclub member! Honestly, I'd read just about anything that dude wrote. In fact, if I can convince him to write my obituary, I'm going to throw myself in front of a bus the first chance I get just so I can read it!The title of One Summer: America, 1927 explains pretty clearly what's between the covers. And oh boy, what a whole heck of a lot happened that year! Here's some of the highlights >>&
Here's some of the highlights >>>Charles Lindbergh's historic flight across the AtlanticThe Great Mississippi FloodThe worst national disaster in U.S. history at the time, affected well over half a million people.The advent of televisionFirst real talkie, The Jazz Singer Brings about the sudden death of silent films.President Calvin Coolidge Least hard working US President of all time.Babe Ruth broke the current home run recordLindbergh's story and that of flight in general takes up a large portion of this book.
Think Sacco and Vanzetti, Charles Lindbergh, Babe Ruth, Al Capone, the invention of TV and talkies, Coolidge, Hoover, and Henry Ford.What struck me most about this book is that the things going on in 1927 aren't that much different than the things going on today.In the autumn of 1927 [Hoover's] opponents, of whom there were many, began floating the notion that Hoover couldn't legally run because he hadn't been resident in America for the proceeding 14 years, as the Constitution required.Recently, people try to claim Obama isn't an American.Illinois imposed no restrictions on the sale of tommy guns, so they were available to the general public in hardware stores, sporting goods stores, and even drugstores.
It has been a long time since I have read a Bill Bryson book so when I happened upon an opportunity to win an ARC of One Summer: America, 1927, I jumped at the chance.
He names some who thought they were guilty and boldly states: Many people closely involved in the case, then and later, concluded that Sacco and Vanzetti were certainly guilty of something.For himself, Bryson says,  Across such a distance of time, it is impossible to say anything with certainty, but there are grounds for suspecting that they were not perhaps as innocent as they made themselves out.He did not specifically note the positions of the tabloids that were often evidently a trusted source.
Within a few weeks I had devoured everything BB had ever written and eagerly awaited being one of the first to read his newest works that followed.This time, I was able to read a publisher's advance copy of "One Summer, America, 1927" a full month prior to the book's introduction to book stores.While you may think that the events of the Summer of 1927 are not, high on your list of things to know, please do yourself a favor and pick up this book.
Unlike A Short History of Nearly Everything or At Home: A Short History of Private Life where Bill Bryson looks into the full picture behind centuries of research, we have an account in extreme detail about regarding a single year.
Funny, how such a popular man became only a footnote after nearly a hundred years.America became enraptured in the first big tabloid driven murder trial (Ruth Snyder murdered her husband and did an extremely poor job of covering it up).
Herbert Hoover does a incredible job with relief efforts from the Mississippi basin flood.There's so many fun micro-histories covered in this novel.
A five star review from an avowed fiction reader for a non fiction book is pretty rare.
But this book kept me just as enthralled as a great novel.
What a summer 1927 was and what a storyteller Bill Bryson is!
From the fascinating little known facts about Charles Lindbergh's flight (and all the disastrous attempts before him) that I had to read aloud to my husband saying, "Did you know this?" to the gossipy stories about Babe Ruth, Calvin Coolidge and some really stupid murderers, I couldn't put this book down.
Don't let the size of this book stop you.
I have very mixed feelings about this book.
I gave it 3 stars because I did like the wealth of information in the book.
But I felt like that information was presented in a very disjointed way.
Going month by month was OK, but I felt like the titles on the sections were misleading--I was expecting a whole section to be about the section heading--not so.
Maybe I just expected too much from the book, knowing that it's a bestseller and by Bill Bryson, but I ended up feeling disappointed by it.
The 1989 book on America was titled "The Lost Continent." Now, in 2013, Bryson seems to have finally found the United States in his newest labor, One Summer: America, 1927.
From the booming cinema industry to the poor decisions made by a select few bankers on Long Island that led to the Great Depression, Bryson explores how the seemingly random events of the summer changed our history.
Bryson deftly bounces from one topic to another, elegantly imbricating his many narrative snapshots, until they ultimately form a full picture of "one hell of a summer" that perhaps shaped world history more than any other of the twentieth century.
OK,this is the 5th Bill Bryson's book I translated to Serbian (the previous ones being A Short History of Almost Everything, Made In America, At Home and Down Under) and I am delighted again.
Maybe not everyone is interested in recent history of America, but I am quite sure most of the readers will find many fun-facts about various thing they even didn't know they didn't know...
So, kudos for Bryson.The Serbian translation will be available this Spring, published by Laguna, Belgrade.
(By the way, Charles Lindbergh's exploit took advantage of his excellent navigation skills.)In Bryson's hands, each story becomes a fascinating marvel, so well told, with a tone of understatement instead of over-the-top hype.
Instead, the book is a steady stream of interesting history, constructed so as to keep your attention riveted.So, given that it is such a good book, why do I give it only three stars?
Bill Bryson has a very pleasant voice, so shouldn't I enjoy the audiobook?
Random House Audio, the book's publisher, produced a set of audio files that were recorded at a very low volume.
It is obvious that Random House Audio has some very very poorly-trained recording engineers.
A definite return to form for Bryson after the disappointing 'At Home - A Short History of Private Life'.Who would have thought that there was so much happening in one country in one year? Written with Bryson's more than usual trademark wit and with his skill of telling otherwise forgotten, obscure or neglected stories in an entertaining, informative and engaging way.As usual he conveys these stories (connected more of less by the year 1927) with his usual his wide-eyed delivery - sharing his fascination with the facts and stories he has unearthed along with the reader.
One Summer America, 1927is clearly not a walk in the woods but a lazy stroll down memory lane.
I had to wonder how and why Bryson chose this particular summer to write about.
Our book group wouldn't go so far as to be negative and all thought they learned something and will use One Summer America, 1927 as a stepping stone for some research on whatever figure captured their attention.
Mine would be Calvin Coolidge as most of the others were more than I need or want to know.Perhaps I'm used to the Bill Bryson of the Thunderbolt Kid A Walk in the Woods.
It took me a few days (I kept picking it up and putting it down) but once I got into it - total immersion from start to finish.
Originally I was questionable as to why the author picked 1927 as a type of narrative structure, but as I began reading it it became clearer to me.
The author uses the events of one faraway summer to expand on the ways and mores of an America (yet) untouched by depression and the spectre of another World War.If anything, besides being a phenomenal read, this book has stoked the flame of my interest for all-things twenties.
This gave Tunney extra recovery time and on the count of nine he stood up continued the fight and easily outpointed Dempsey to retain the title.Henry Ford is described as a bungler in the book.
In one of the Ford’s other foolish moves he established a community in the jungles of Brazil modeled after a typical American community in order to produce his own rubber cheaply for Ford tires.
He insisted that alcohol be denatured which made it poisonous, and blurted that “those who drank it and died deserved what they got.”A more shocking event occurred in a Supreme Court Ruling.
Mr. Bryson writes - "The development of air-cooled engines - America's one outstanding contribution to aviation technology in the period".Air cooled engines were in use from the start of powered flight and used in great numbers throughout the First World war.
for details.Some may think I am being very picky, I might agree, were it not for the fact that I am certain there is much in the book that, unlike aviation history, I do not know.
For a book that covers living history, I, for one, need to know that what I am reading is being presented accurately.
With the summer of 1927 being one of America’s most historic, celebrated non-fiction writer Bill Bryson took a long, hard look at everything that went down that year in his acclaimed 2013 release, One Summer: America, 1927.
How the Ford Motor Company survived is astounding.One of the biggest obstacles with writing non-fiction has to be getting the flow or style right.
Obviously Bryson has a wealth of experience with writing non-fiction, but I’m sure it’s always a delicate balance when trying to stay somewhere between page turning prose and blatantly regurgitating facts.
One Summer: America, 1927 is a real eye-opener; I thought I knew a good deal about the many people, places, things, ideologies, and events of 1927, and the twenties at large - but my knowledge only scratched the surface.
As Paul Harvey might say: "now I know the rest of the story." Or at the very least, relatively more than what traditional history books led me to believe about our nation's iconic heroes, haunts, achievements, influences, and hullabaloo of 1920s America.
Could be the dullest accumulation of facts ever put into 456 pages. Bryson may have other successes but he was greatly in need of an editor with real guts on this one.
In September of the previous year, René Fonk hastily took off in his Sikorsky built plane in a quest to win the Orteig prize.
He packed extra fuel, an abundance of emergency equipment, two kinds of radios, spare clothes, presents for friends and supporters, and lots to eat and drink, including wine and champaigne.
One source that Bryson cites claims that 11,700 people died in 1927 from being poisoned by their own government.
“Keep Cool with Coolidge,” “Yankee Stadium – The House That Ruth Built,” the “Long Count” in the Dempsey-Tunney fight, “Lucky Lindy,” and of course the all-encompassing “Roaring Twenties.” Bryson gives substance to these tags.
Who would have thought that one summer could encompass so much?Actually, of course, Bryson doesn't limit his story to America in the summer of 1927.
Bryson's lively, humorous style keeps the book zipping along, even when he's covering topics in which I have little interest (such as transatlantic flight, boxing, baseball, automobiles...
well quite a bit of the book, actually, but my point is, if he can make these things interesting to me, he's working some real magic!), and while the organization, theoretically by month, might seem to chop stories up oddly, I never found it to be so.
Key events, people and topics that Bryson covers in some detail include: Charles Lindbergh’s flight across the Atlantic (and aviation in general), the scandalous murder trial of Judith Snyder and Judd Gray, prohibition, Herbert Hoover, Babe Ruth, Al Capone, the transition from silent to talking film and Henry Ford.
I enjoy Bryson’s writing quite a bit, particularly his later books that deal with science and history (his earlier travel books, while often amusing, seem to unfailingly degrade into a dull if persistent whine).
Though One Summer can be favorably compared with other history books, in terms of Bryson’s other writing, I thought it lacked the liveliness and humor of his other work.
The title is a bit of a misnomer, as 'One Summer' is much more expansive than its title suggests.
The book is a social and cultural history of America during the 1920s, which reads something like a modern version of the classic 'Only Yesterday' by Frederick Allen Lewis.
The book does not present any new research or conclusions, but it is nonetheless an enjoyable read, as Bryson is a gifted storyteller with a special talent for illuminating the most interesting and entertaining details of every historical character and episode.
Bill Bryson is a writer who could make anything fascinating and he really shines in this book.
I had no idea the summer of 1927 was so noteworthy, but it turns out a bunch of remarkable people were involved in a lot of impressive and/or notorious activities, including Al Capone, Babe Ruth, Henry Ford, Charles Lindbergh, Herbert Hoover, and a host of others--some of whom I’d never heard of.
Due to personal preferences parts of the book interested me more than others, but Bryson’s skill as a storyteller kept me glued to the page throughout.
It’s the kind of book that will make will make you laugh and shake your head in amazement.
It's hard to think of a more insightful, more hilarious author working today.Bryson's thesis is simple - America in the summer of 1927 may not have realized it, but it was taking its first steps as a world leader - in economics, in the arts, in sports, and in technology.
Bryson manages to find either the humanity or the hilarity in each development - sometimes finding both.Much of the book revolves around Charles Lindbergh's unimaginable feat of crossing the Atlantic in a plane.
and it came crashing down just as our most recent "New Economy" miracle failed.If you're a Bryson fan, you must read this book.
Every time I read a Bryson book I am amazed at his easy going, funny tone coupled with research.
Obviously, Ford has not been the leader for years, but I didn't realize just how quickly he lost his priority.Farnsworth developed the first TV and a physicist named Lawrence used his technology to develop the first particle accelerator.
Fermi-lab is situated on Farnsworth Rd. In general he just has a great tone and knows a lot and his books are always worthwhile.
Bill Bryson is a clever and funny writer, but frankly, he tries way too hard to keep up the pretense that this is a book all about the wacky and wild summer of 1927.
You will read in this book lengthy discurses about the Harding administration, Herbert Hoover's relief efforts, Jack Dempsey's boxing career, Henry Ford's anti-Semitic ramblings, Babe Ruth's first few years in baseball - these, and many more passages in the book, are all kind of interesting BUT THEY DON'T TAKE PLACE IN THE SUPPOSEDLY FANTASTICAL SUMMER OF 1927.
also not during the summer of 1927.
