https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438190.Darkspell
Just as entertaining a tale as the first book, but I had to knock off a star for the blatant homophobia. Sigh.
Again, I get irritated when the change of storyline happens but one quickly gets sucked into the new storyline and cranky when you have abandon that one later on.The pseudo-celtic setting is well constructed and unlike many tales, does not stay totally static over the 400 years the story tells.Reading with fresh eyes, there is a little homophobia creeping through but that might be the era of books and trying to anticipate the moral outlook of an essentially medieval setting.
It feels more like a series of vignettes than something with a beginning, a middle and an ending - and if there is a plot, its actually the bad guys', with the main characters just riding along for giggles.
I like vignettes, so I'm okay, but cohesive plot demanders beware.One point - I've seen a lot of other reviews talking about the homophobia.
Well, they've got a point, but I don't think the book itself is homophobic.
Yes, but I don't think they're shown to be right.
As such to me, its not saying "All homosexuals are this", any more than its saying "All close knit families are incestuous".
The 11th-century sections have all of these elements, such that I was bored through much of the last half of Darkspell.The presentation of the evil characters, the wielders of dark dweomer, was especially over-the-top.
Daggerspell completely broke down these defenses, and while Darkspell didn't have quite the same impact, whether due to its being a second book or to the failings I perceive in it, Deverry's marvelous braid of present and past; of background detail, character and theme; of tragedy and hope, takes me as close as I'll ever get to declaring love.
To be honest, I like the old, unrevised version better.
My guess is that Kerr edited it so that it wasn't quite so negative about homosexuality -- incest in the first book!
pedophilia and gay rape in the second.
But I liked the family connection, and I love the complexity of Sarcyn's character.
And I really, really, really do love the story of Lady Gweniver in the Time of Troubles.
When I started re-reading the series, I squealed when I realized the reference back -- remember in Daggerspell when Jill starts trying to convince her father about women warriors?
Lady Gweniver, and she was only back in the time of the troubles.

It was interminable for about 85% of the book. I am not amused with the timeline jumping to show the reincarnations of the characters. The last 10 to 15% of the book made significant head way in opening up the long arc and the world, but for me it was too little too late.I may return to this series at some point just to see if it improves in subsequent books. It's much loved by a lot of people. But I'm not very motivated for it right now.***********How can there not be any audiobooks of this on Goodreads?
This follows the format of the previous book, the present day timeline and then a series of flashbacks to the reincarnations of our main characters from a previous timeline.
Gweniver (Jill) was the only other 'main' character to feature prominantly, and her story was suitably tragic and tied up their wyrd's perhaps even more.Back in the present Rhodry is dealing with the aftermath of the previous book and adapting to life on the road whereas Jill is again finding herself involved in workings of dweomer and facing her affinity to it.
I'm enjoying this series, but it took a sharp left turn into the weird once it started involving sex and rape. Just not what I expected from an otherwise pretty straight laced DND-type magic setting.
We continue our journey with Nevyn as he comes up against the sinister Old One – a dark dweomer master who has sent his operatives into Deverry to steal a magical jewel and sow dissent.
Of course Jill and Rhodry soon find themselves entangled in the plot, and Katherine Kerr also takes us on a secondary journey to examine more of our central characters’ past lives, and how these influence current events.The template of the warrior-maiden seems to be cast for Jill, only in her past life we get to know her as a priestess in service of the Moon Goddess’s dark phase.
Honestly I feel a little bad giving this book such a low rating.
Not because I actually have a higher opinion of it but because a lot of people appeared to really like it and I'm obviously missing something....I read the revised version before anyone asks.It's slow.
There would've been a lot of facing your own demons and dealing with the reality of what happened and I would've liked to see how a past Jill would've handled that situation.I feel bad for giving it such a low rating but it was just....
Yes.I would not recommend anyone starts reading the Deverry cycle unless they intend to read them all, as the macroscopic story is at least as important as the microscopic ones, and as such I am reviewing the books as a set.I almost give them 4 stars (excellent) but in the end I am not enjoying them quite as much as I did in my early 20's and so I settled on 3 stars (good).
As fantasy novels go the concepts and the writing are really excellent but for me the last couple of books haven't been as enjoyable as the early ones and it's a lot to expect people to read fifteen novels.
You have the present storyline that revolves around Jill, Rhodry, and Nevyn fighting against the forces of evil.
You have the previous incarnations with their storylines covering the extensive back-story and you have the ever-present question, will Nevyn be able to help Jill fulfill her destiny in this lifetime or will he have to wait, once again, for her to be reborn.
Whenever I read a book like this, I think of a tapestry.
It is really pretty amazing if you think about it, and this story gives me that very same feeling.Full Review Here: Dragons, Heroes and Wizards: Fantasy Series Book Reviews
I'm giving this book two stars because it's at least written in complete sentences. It is one of the most poorly written books I have ever read, lacking in creativity and relying heavily on the authors personal biases to invoke darkness or evil in ways I find to be ignorant and offensive. If I were to mark up this book with a highlighter every time the author uses the phrase "all at once," it would dry the highlighter out completely. This book is nothing short of a waste of life.
I am really enjoying this series again. Very happy that I didn't finish it the first time around (I started in 2008 when Kindle was just getting off the ground and ebooks were scarce) so I have no idea how it is going to end.This is true epic fantasy, of a kind that we don't seem much of these days. And the ones we see seem to be taking 10+ years to finish and or get the next books out.
This book follows two timelines out of Nevyn's many iterations.
The connection of cause and effect--how Brangwen swore to learn to fight in one timeline, then was a warrior in all subsequent timelines--is super interesting to follow as the story unfolds.
It's devastating to read so many versions of the same story, knowing that most of them will end in tragedy!
I wish they alternated timelines more often so that the two stories seemed to weave together more fluidly instead of doing the book in 10-page chapters followed by 200-page chapters.
I finished the series in one sitting, but regarding this book in particular: I liked that Rhodry was getting used to his reduced status, in particular:Even Jill had to admit that, expensive drink or not, it was pleasant to sit in a tavern room that didn't smell of moldy straw and unwashed dogs.
I was a little confused about why we kept following Mael, but it was extremely satisfying when we eventually found out that it became "Maelwaedd".
Carrying on from where it left off, this story re united the characters of Jill, Rhodry and Nevyn.
Then moved back in time to Jill and Rhodry with the ever present Nevyn at their side.
The quest was to reunite the humans and elves so they could join forces to overturn the evil dark forces and master of dark majics only know as 'The Old One'.
When it concluded, with the humans and elves being victorious, I was so glad I still had two other books to read!
I am devouring the series and fear that we haven't heard the last from the evil 'Old One'.
I had an issue with the gender politics of these books and stopped after this one. Why did the characters get reborn into the same gender every time? That bugged me. And I found it deeply disturbing when the bad guys are the only people engaging in homosexuality. Seriously? This review is really for my own record of why I stopped reading this series ~ perhaps there's redemption in further books? But I'll be reading something else.
So incredibly unsure about this book...Second in the series..It reminds me a lot of Robert Jordan's Wheel of Time. Kerr quickly absorbs you into this world, but you don't flip through the pages, parts of the book seem to drag on for long periods of time. The way the characters re-appear with different names at different years, you can get a bit confused and it is best to read this in long chunks of time....So if i'm to read the third, it better be on holiday!
A good sequel, though not as interesting as the first novel. It lacked a cohesive plot. The sub-story of Gweniver really helped sell the novel to me. The homophobia less so. (of course the book talks about rape, but if the only gay-sex in a series is violent it says a lot)Still, am looking forward to the next part.
Another fantastic book in a fantastic series. I like series because you really get to know the characters and, for me, these folks are old and dear friends. I'm ready to dive into the next book.
+++4:23pm
Great!I really enjoy this series and Each of the books. The Celtic references and the interesting of the dweomer are fantastic. Looking forward to continuing this series
Removed 1 star because the gay rape scene was too graffic. I'd rather it was implied.
A gripping read with three of my favourite characters, Jill Rhodry and Nevyn.
A worthy sequel and propounds the original attraction to the world within.
This one gets a little dark. And I liked it.
My hands-down favorite Deverry book!
https://fantastiskfiktion.wordpress.c...
