https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/659002.Curious_Wine
There are certain books classified as classics that are important in lesfic.
At least lesbian books that weren't considered pulp, that had horrible endings.
And considering this was published when I was 1 years-old, that's pretty good.The main characters do fall in love very quickly, but what I like about it was its sensuality.
And overall I thought the sex scenes were pretty well written for 1983.I do wish there wasn't a rape scene.
I did feel like Daughters of a Coral Dawn, Forrest's classic sci-fi book, made me feel more.
But I do understand why this is considered a classic.
“Nothing interesting can possibly happen in a cabin full of women.” So ends the first chapter of Curious Wine, Katherine Forrest’s classic novel of the early 80’s in which 6 women bring their personal issues to a beautiful Tahoe cabin for a weeks skiing in an era when encounter groups were in, padded shoulders were the norm and lesbian romance was definitely still in the closet.Diane is depressed about breaking up with her boyfriend.
One has that as the main theme (this book); other has that as a subplot (Mira Grant’s ‘Into the Drowning Deep’).I’d like to say something along the lines of ‘this is the oldest lesbian fiction book that was both a romance and one with a ‘happy for now’ type ending’ – unlike lesbian pulp that I’ve read that tended to have unhappy endings, and/or if there is a happy ending, it definitely didn’t involve two women together at the end.
I thought this book was an absolutely beautiful love story about two people that were meant to be together. I loved the constant references to Emily Dickenson. I thought it was an original story line and way ahead of it's time. I will definately be reading more books by Katherine V. Forrest in the very near future. This book made me laugh, smile, and almost cry. I really enjoyed how the author had such a perfect way of describing the emotions felt by the characters in the book. One of my favorite books.
Lane and Diana are a swoonworthy couple. Both women are brilliant and beautiful, and it’s no wonder that they’re drawn to each other. Their chemistry is palpable even before Diana starts to figure out her feelings for Lane, and Diana’s journey of self-discovery had me enthralled as she figures out what their relationship means for her life.Full review: https://www.thelesbianreview.com/curi...
I liked this book because it will tell you exactly why women would choose to become lesbians and why that is so much better than the alternative!
But you have to see it for what it meant at the time, and consider it a part of women's history.
I am sure it was a huge milestone at the time to write about a two women discovering each other and choosing to live as lesbians in a time when that was highly unusual.
It's a fun and easy read, and you can easily justify reading lesbian romance brain candy by considering its important historical context.
This was on a list of classic lesbian romance novels so I read it. Written in 1983 and set in 1978, it was very dated. Like watching Dessert Hearts now, I can understand that it was maybe groundbreaking in its day but it just doesn't hold up well. The romance happened fast which I found hard to believe. And *spoiler* there was a rape which I found disconcerting and inadequately processed. And if it was there to compare a hetero relationship with a gay one, a bit problematic.
I read Curious Wine 13 years ago and it was my first time ever reading a lesbian romance. 13 years later I still read it all the time and find myself always anticipating the first time Lane and Diana come together. Some of the descriptions may be dated for younger people but this story is truly timeless.
I do not think that a woman who thought of herself as straight would just have sex with another woman she barely knew, and not only that, but then went crazy for the hot sex, and immediate vows of "I wanna be with you forever," and "true love." Not a moment of self reflection as to what the new life means, on many levels, including perception of identity.
It was the only real thing about the book.I realized very early on that there is so much dreck out there in lesbian fiction, and women read it because there isn't anything else.
I did take a leap of faith a few years back, so that must have been it.Reading Curious Wine made me think of both Desert Hearts and Claire of the Moon.
I believe I would go as far as calling Curious Wine relevant, even if I still feel conflicted about the depiction of women at certain times throughout the narrative.All in all, I would say it was a rather different read, a bit experimental, a bit… secretive.
if the book had only been about diana and lane, i'd have given it 5 stars.
as individual characters, they were both compelling, smart and beautiful and as a couple it was just a pure firework.but then the author added the whole groupe of women, whose stories were interesting but it just kept you from focusing on diana and lane which was a shame.
and there is also the absolute horrible casino night interlude which was so wrong (but let's just forget about it ever happening).WHAT MATTERS is that i got to read about two women, embracing their new love for each other, without denying their previous love stories with men, written in a peculiar but in the end rather nice style, WITH lots of DICKINSON POETRY EXTRACTS and it was AMAZING.
Apparently describing lesbian sex as "soft" and "beautiful" for 200 pages just doesn't do it for me.
Dated, but a classic to be sure.
It's a love at first sight for both women and while neither woman has been in a real relationship with a women, Lane, the woman the protagonist, Diana falls for, at least recognized the tendency in herself.It's a sweet, tender story set in a time when they were going to have to live their relationship in secret.
Yet it was because, in part, of women like that that refused to live ins secrecy that I can be so open today.I'm not going to pretend this is great literature.
It's a fairly utopian love story.

4.5 starsThis is a love story of two women who are alike in so many ways: both are raised by and have strong bonds with their single fathers, both share similar passion for poetry and music, both are feminine yet strong-willed, independent. It is all about gentleness, tenderness, softness, sensitivity and intensity (words mentioned like a hundred time in the book), something only lesbian relationships can make you feel.
This book was short and sweet. I read it in just two days ( which is a record for me. I'm usually so slow to finish a book ) I enjoyed this. Finally a lesbian romance that is happy. I enjoyed the characters and enjoyed the quick look into such a large moment of their lives. I would have loved to know more about how things went, even would have loved to read a series about these two.
Romance written in the 70s and 80s is a hard sell for me, but a friend of mine loaned me her copy so I read book. This one was a quick read, but I had a hard time getting invested in the characters. Also, it's a matter of taste, but I needed less talking and more tension. Not angst, but sexual tension. I don't really mind a slow burn, but there was no burning, not even in the sex scenes.
I guess this is supposed to be lesbian erotica, or some sort of lesbian love novel...perhaps if you're a straight white man. Seriously, this book is ridiculous.
A sweet and unusual lesbian romance. Set in 1978 it is definitely dated, quite amusingly so. Gentle all the way, and subtly gripping, it left me keen throughout to learn how events would unfold.
This book in my opinion is one of the best lesbian romances out there. I happen to be a big fan of Katherine Forrest and this is her best book by far
Of course most of the men in the story are lecherous, disgusting fools; Forrest writes most of her heterosexual male characters that way throughout her books (not the gay male characters, though; she's very complimentary towards them), and usually gives them silly old-fashioned names like Fred and George.
One thing that really bugs me is her prudish way of writing her sex scenes.
I realize Forrest was in her 40s when she wrote this book 30 years ago so she's of a different generation where women didn't talk about sex, but even back then female authors were more graphic than Forrest was when writing about sex.
It's a love story between two women that doesn't involve death, insanity, or the participants repenting their unnatural ways and going back to men - considering how routinely these tropes appear in classic works of lesbian fiction, Curious Wine was like a breath of fresh air.
It's also significantly racier than the cover - deceptively plain - suggests.Curious Wine did more than live up to my expectations - it made me think about the context in which it was written, what has changed for lesbian women since it was published and what has stayed the same.
It's funny because for some reason when I first read the summary, I didn't think Lane was a woman's name therefore it actually surprised me when I realized I was reading a woman-woman kind of romance novel.
I'm used to reading gay romance, whether it's books or fanfiction so my understand came naturally.
I liked the book.
I liked how effortlessly and lightly it was written, it was like a passing warm breeze that tangles your hair and messes with it a bit but overall it's the nicest of all imaginable feelings.
The feeling of warm freshness on your face just coming over your body and soul.
I liked how the book made me feel.
This book felt very dated.
Published in 1983, the story feels ten years older with its “women’s group” dialogue, feminist posturing and pseudo-psycho activities.
The women in the cabin are self-absorbed and dull.
Thankfully women have moved on from this sort of “navel gazing”, “group hug” style sisterhood stuff and realised that they are individuals not some sort of collective against the world.
The best parts of the book are the scenes between Diana and Lane and the development of their romance.
The hot sex scenes and the number of variations that Forrest manages to write are impressive, believable and successfully avoid the pornographic.
Despite how short the novel is, I felt an incredible affinity with the two lead characters and was desperately willing them on the whole time.
Beautifully written, I can't remember the last time a book made me smile so much.
A simple story that needed to be told, and one of those books that makes you want to flip right back to page 1 and indulge all over again.
The characters I am sure will stay with me for a long time, and this is going to become a very well read one in my collection from now on.
If you want interesting fiction...delightful characters...funny dialog...engaging action...artful literature...you'll find none of that here.I loved this book, but only because I wanted some lesbian fiction that was a little more romance and a little less raunch...more heart and less sweat. Sure it was erotica, but erotica with a bit of cheese and sap. That's what I wanted, and this was it! That said, unless that's all you care about too, I don't think I'd recommend it to anyone.
This is a very dated book, and a bit in the cheesy romance novel genre. There are some things about it that feel very real, but a lot of it makes me think of bad early 90s hair and the world of the perma-closet.
Definitely lesbian chick lit from another generation. Enjoyable, but somewhat bland. And so much entrenched acceptance of sexism! An unembellished window into a different chapter of lesbian America, lacking some depth but pleasant enough for reading in the park.
A captivating novel full of sensual magic in the love story between two women. It will make you laugh, feel on edge and maybe even cry.
