https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/633270.The_Ear_the_Eye_and_the_Arm
I enjoyed this book, but it had problems.The story is about a group of 3 children who go out into the world and get kidnapped.
The other problem is that the author set out to write a sci-fi novel.
It is not a sci-fi novel.
The book has a bunch of stock sci-fi features, but they are randomly stuck onto the story.
robot maid!" and "Hmmm...
Bet they never saw that one coming!"Really, the book is a novel steeped in the religious traditions of Zimbabwe.
I think adding in the random sci-fi elements really detracts from that, but the book still manages to be pretty good.
This book is amazing.
Period.
End of story.
Last year, when I was strolling through the classroom library, I came upon this book.
I saw the cover and I said, "This is the best cover ever." Others may disagree with that statement, but I'm me and I thought it looked awesome.
I decided to give it a shot.
BAM!
It blew me away.
KAPOW!
It knocked my socks off.
ZIP!
I read it so fast because it was so FREAKING AWESOME!
The chase scenes were off the hook, and the book was filled to the brim with suspense.
I first read this book back a little over ten years ago on the recommendation of my English teacher.
One of the best young adult book I have ever read.
It is a book that is felt with everything for me.
A book that just grabs the reader right in and never lets go.
I never felt I was in Africa at all.Farmer is a great writer that I see rise with more Middle School readers reading her later books, especially House of Scorpion.
I just really wished that more readers read this book!

This book has taken me about a year to finish.
It' odd though because the story or the writing kept drawing me back in.
The detectives hired to find the lost children are bumbling oafs and are always one step behind.
The children themselves are thrust into the same scenario of "captured"/"escaped" over and over again.
I can't truly explain what is missing from this book - I think it may be the lack of backstory or the inability to define plot changes effectively.
I'm left with the feeling that this could have been a great story, but it fell way short on delivery.
Mostly, I’m so impressed that this was so diverse for a book published in the 1990s, because it’s a nice piece of Afro-futurism, entirely set in Zimbabwe, with an almost all-black cast and some historically-grounded mystical elements etc.It reminded me a bit of A Series of Unfortunate Events, in terms of three siblings out on their own, in peril, and going through a succession of absolutely useless or dangerous adults as they careen from place-to-place, temporary guardian to temporary guardian.
Along the way, they’re followed by a trio of superpowered detectives tasked with bringing them home to their parents.The prose just didn’t hook me, because it’s somewhat flat/straight-forward in the common way of middle-grade, but I know that I probably would’ve loved this if I’d read it as a kid.
Young adult novel?
Zimbabwean backwoods journey?
Check.
Check.
You don't get a lot of books that hit all three of those points- this may be the only one.
As a fifth grader I wasn't entirely sure what to make of this novel, but it grew on me as I read.
There are elements I remember to this day: the house full of taxidermies; the mile-high hotel skyscraper; the multiethnic mutated detectives.
The writing isn't entirely polished, but this book still gets high points for originality, especially when, fifteen years later, YA has become a series of generic cookie-cutter dystopias.
Great memories of this book, if only because it was so different from anything else I'd read at age 12 or so. I'd hate to read it again and have those memories ruined, but I still kind of want to. Because dystopian Zimbabwe, supernatural detectives, and spirits in masks.
I LOVED IT
I enjoyed the book a lot - the author tried to pay homage to real traditions and beloefs as much as possible. My main gripe with the book is that the villains seem unnecessarily vile and vicious without any depth.
Instead, Farmer explores ideas of personal, cultural, and spiritual identity with superficial science-fiction elements only really critical to set the futuristic tone of this world.
Tendai and Arm are the only two characters in this book who seem to develop and avoid conforming to a single type.
The world Tendai and Arm inhabit is populated with very realistic characters.The most intriguing part of this story to me is the tie to the spiritual.
The crisis of identity both Tendai and Arm are experiencing covers many facets.
However, the ideas of cultural and spiritual identity are not-- particularly when they are so closely tied to each other.
This was a really (junior high level) amazing foray into ideas about identity, belonging, and cultural purity/evolution.
The amazing detectives (named in the title) who discover, ultimately and by accident, the whereabouts of the Security Chief's kidnapped children are blessed/cursed with special abilities as a result of a radioactive accident in their anscestor's past.
This futuristic novella dares to set itself in the (probable?) world of 22nd century Zimbabwe.
A young boy (14) embarks on as almost accidental adventure when he and his two younger siblings dare to leave the carefully constructed compound of his caring parents' design.
When the She-Elephant decides to sell them, the children uncover a conspiracy involving a gang known as the Masks, who practice human sacrifice—but not before getting caught up both in an enclave in the middle of the city whose inhabitants live in a traditional African fashion, known as Resthaven, and in the home of the Praise Singer's mother, a white woman looking for a fat ransom payout.
It’s like reading two very messy stories intertwined into one where the plot is the same: they ALMOST run into each other, but the children are just one step further away.
I picked up this book with the idea that Ear, Eye, and Arm could do wonders with their messed up genetics, but the story didn’t even stress their powers.
It was obvious who Ear and Eye was, but I thought, initially, Arm had super strength or could stretch.
It was only halfway through the book that I finally understood that Arm’s powers were a mix of empathy and mind reading.
The first is the story of three kids, living a sheltered and rather boring life, who set off on a series of adventures.
How much you enjoy this book seems to depend on how much you like any or all of those kinds of stories.We read this for book club, and I enjoyed it more than anyone else.
But I guess I was caught up in the adventure of the story and didn't worry too much about how it all worked together.
I really liked Tendai, the oldest of the three kids whose trip to the city sets off the whole chain of events.
The children, brought up in restricted safety, learn about the old culture of Zimbabwe and the new culture; I particularly liked how they see the English residents as strange outsiders.
The pacing is excellent, as Farmer cuts back and forth between the kids and the detectives, keeping the tension and the interest level high in both threads until they finally meet in the book's climax.
And I really loved the characters, who are portrayed both sympathetically and wittily; the bizarrely talented detectives particularly could easily be over the top, but they're just as human as anyone in the book.
I might have liked this book more if I didn't know that Farmer is capable of better.There is an inescapable PG-ness to the plot that lowers the stakes of the whole book.
There is really no doubt about where the character arcs will end and how the story will turn out.
As a result, the setting has to carry the interest level of the whole book.
Farmer does put out some amazing settings, with some great commentary on the pros and cons of different cultures and ways of thinking.
I just wish that the characters and situations were more suspenseful.
first book of 2008. what a remarkable position to hold... i remember loving this book in middle school. still enjoyed it now, though recognized some new/questionable elements. generally good narrative and some very interesting characterizations of zimbabwe 2194. was particularly intrigued by the over-simplified but largely critical portrayal of the post-colonial race and class warfare of the southern African future... especially interesting was depiction of domestic workers and power relations inside the home...worth reading. esp worth reading before giving it to children to read. could start some good conversations with middle schoolers --
The three children of a broadly benign dictator, General Matsika, languish within the protected compound that is their home, forbidden from all but the most proscriptive exposure to the world outside for fear of offering their father's enemies an opportunity to kidnap or kill them, and lay him low.Empathetic Tendai, his thorny sister Rita, and their young brother Kuda long for an unrestricted taste of the rich world beyond those walls: Harare, capital of Zimbabwe, where life is really lived - not like their days of studious isolation, which are only enlivened by the daily praise singing of the household's Mellower, a semi-psychic servant whose hypnotic chants reinforce each listener's sense of personal pride and well being - but that can only go so far.When his duties are complete, the Mellower is as much their playmate as he is their babysitter, and together they hatch a plan to win a day's freedom from their comfortable cage: the next morning, his songs lull their mother and father into a suggestible state, and they depart to their jobs leaving pass cards and money on the breakfast table.
Tendai, his sister Rita, and his brother Kuda, against the wishes and warnings of their strict and influential parents, go out into the world away from their house so they can explore.
I loved the incorporation of the African folklore and mythology and how it was woven into this futuristic world taking place in Zimbabwe.
It wasn't hard to read, but I would recommend it to those who are aware of the strangeness of some of the characters as well as making sure they are aware that Farmer is known for creating books that are of this same strange and creative caliber.

This is the worst book I have ever read! I would never recommend it to anyone. This book was full of horrible things I could hardly stand to read. If I didn't have to read it, I would never of had finished it. The beginning idea was good a good idea, but kept getting worse as the story went on. The characters and their actions were truly evil, attempts to kill an innocent baby, contacting and possessing evil spirits, evil gangs, and attempting to sacrifice children! The whole thing was terrible!
This book was amazing! the book is about three children living with their African family and the family has super powers to save them in all types of ways. There are three detectives which are eye, ear and arm. and they work secret powers. I would recommend this book third to fifth grade. Great read anytime even outside of school. The two ideas I have and take from this book is its story quality and you could relate the book to black history month in your classroom. Definitely was a WOW book.
The story itself was very fun, but I'll admit I remember very little of it. The real story lies in the time when I began reading this - I was in middle school. My mom would read it to me before bed. Time happened, and we never finished it. Until now, a week after graduating college, we took turns reading it until we had finished it!
The writing wasn't too elaborate, and therefore easy to understand, and African lore was obviously researched well for this book.
This book has actually been on my shelves for years but I never got around to reading it until now, which was a massive mistake on my part.
I was interested in chapter one, hooked in chapter two, and fully engrossed by chapter three.
In my opinion, it read more like a dystopian like  Ready Player One or  Divergent.
Anyway, it was fun to read; it's earned its place on my shelf.
Something I didn't realize before was how good the pacing of the novel is - Nancy Farmer moves the action along, never spending too long in one location, but the story never feels rushed.
Unlike E.L. Konigsberg, who has a style so unique that it stil appeals to me now, Farmer's prose is clearly written for young readers, at a level similar to Harry Potter.
It made me think that maybe I shouldn't give Stephanie Meyer such a hard time for her lousy writing style- the difference between writing for smart 12 year olds and mediocre 14 year olds isn't so big.
I'm sure the top general in the country would hire you and only you.) Some parts of the future setting worked but a good deal was just flying limos with some robots jammed in.Also - I don't see myself as a prude, but an 11 year old making an orgy joke on page 10?
Farmer creates truly fantastic African settings, for example, a marshland completely composed of compacted garbarge where the poorest people mine for now-rare plastic; but these places and situations build upon a recognizable society: different tribes or races intersect and often conflict, and old traditions are fiercely protected by a minority in a rapidly modernized world.
The children's odyssey reads like an adventure novel, but readers may also find deeper connections to contemporary issues, both global and personal.
Tendai, the oldest child, begins to see not only the world outside his heavily-guarded fence in a new light, but he also recognizes greatness in the family members who used to annoyed or neglected him.
Each adventure the children encounter deftly weaves core human foibles and what can be learned from them into the plot: greed, power, laziness, unrestrained talk, retardation, childhood innocence.Farmer writes in a more literary style than many books these days, but this tale was engaging.
Encounters with interesting characters and compelling situations kept me reading.Farmer created a science fiction alternate-history in Zimbabwe.
Three children of a high-level law enforcement official run away from home for a day adventure, but are immediately kidnapped.
While the children grapple with the underbelly of their city, their parents and three detectives (Eye, Ear and Arm) attempt to find them.
Another interesting aspect of the author's style is the use of many themes.
The children in the book are thrown into a world of crime and have to narrowly escape danger and survive- something they've never experienced before coming from a sheltered life as children of a powerful general.
Because the main characters are the children and the narrator knows their thoughts, this style makes the reader see from a child's point of viewers easily.
The style makes it obvious to see the big change the children face after they "disappear" from their sheltered life and everything they know changes.
