https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/660523.Secrets_of_the_Morning
Tak moje guilty pleasure pokračuje (snad jsem to napsala správně), zase nehodnotím. Tenhle díl byl o něco pomalejší, ale na bizarnosti mu to rozhodně neubralo. :DDost mi celá tato série připomíná telenovelu pro mladší... Strašné osudy hlavní hrdinky, strašné zvraty, strašné zacházení...No, jelikož jsem druhý díl dostala k recenzi, tak očekávejte video na oba díly zároveň... Uvidíme, co z toho vznikne. :D
How can it be that I almost always love reading V.C. Andrews and these books are SO MISERABLE?!! I'm drawn in and the characters come alive and I want to know what's going to happen next to these people. I was pleased with the way this story wrapped up and can't wait to start book 3.
All I've got to say on this book is that she's an idiot
However, Dawn is still haunted by Grandmother Cutler's evil manipulation, as she had written a letter to Dawn's house mother at Sarah Bernhardt School talking about what a slut Dawn is.
Grandmother Cutler takes the reins and sends Dawn to her insane sister Emily who lives on some abandoned plantation in Virginia.
Of course, all of this evil is to no avail, as Dawn is hauntingly beautiful with flaxen hair and cerulean blue eyes.
But what has become of beautiful Baby Christie?
Grandmother Cutler strikes again: and has given Christie up for adoption!
Can Dawn's beauty win the day?
Just as a disclaimer, like I said in my last review, I haven't read this book since I was 14.
I do not remember much about this book other than the plot and that I enjoyed it.
This book is actually pretty sad, when you think about the circumstances Dawn has been placed in.
I found this book to be slower then the first in terms of the flow of the plot.
This book kind of delves into an even darker and more construed plot then the first installment.
What can I say...? How about this:  If you didn't have an unhealthy obsession with V. C. Andrews' novels, then don't read this book. My review for the prequel, Dawn: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...3.5 stars. The only thing saving this book from a 2 stars rating is the ending.Too stupid to live Long suffering heroines! Crappy parents! Evil older women! Unrealistic dreamboats! Incest...sort of! Well, again it is just another day in Ms. Andrews' twisted fictional world.Guess what? You know
(hide spoiler)](3) The same like the first book, the heroine continues to suffer endlessly for nearly an entire book.
Okay...this one isn't entirely a bad thing...I'm okay with the heroine suffering throughout the first book, but in this second book, I think my patience have ran out.(4) The writing: it isn't bad, but Ms. Andrews' Gothic undertone is nearly gone in here.Still...as an attempt of self-torment, I will continue reading the next book.
Dawn soon meets a broadway singer, drops her panties for him quickly (Have poor Jimmy even gotten to second base by now?) and big surprise, finds out she's pregnant.
Then, Jimmy finds out, becomes pissed for like two minutes, and then tells Dawn it's okay, he'll be the father to her baby.
Dawn inherits the hotel (Like we really believe a man would give a daughter controlling interest rather than his son).
But, because Dawn is trying to show that you don't have to finish high school to succeed, she becomes the owner of Cutler Cove.
this is another one of the dawns series.
dawn return and is going to one of the best colleges.
plus she can now fulfill her dreams .
Michael a stunning music teacher comes to teach at the school and soon lust finds it way in the relationship that dawn and him have.
then when dawn thinks everything is well he leaves her.
dawn now has to return back to her past w/ her cruel grandmother and Phillip.
but maybe jimmy her pretend brother can return and protect her for the shocking secrets that is about to come next.
I ate these books up when I was younger so I hate to give them a 3. However, I realize that they are actually terrible books, and I can't justify anything more.
Antroji Katlerių šeimos sagos dalis, kuri mane labiau nuvylė nei nustebino.
Viskas buvo taip nuspėjama, kad galėjau antrąją dalį praleidusi tiesiog imtis trečiosios...Don išsiunčiama mokytis dainavimo į prestižinę menų mokyklą.
Jos kambarioke tampa balerina siekianti tapti Triša.
Triša nesmerkia Don, o tiesiog ją palaiko.
Garbindamas Don ir jos balsą, jis prisiekia jai padovanosiantis pasaulinę šlovę.
Tačiau draugė įtaria kažką negero...Ir viskas "Ryto paslpatyse" tai nuobodžiai ir vilkosi...
Buvo ta Andrews dvasia ir kuriama pompastiška drama, tačiau šį kartą ji nei jaudino nei stebino.
Vienintelis smagesnis dalykas buvo tas, kad pirmą kartą Andrews savo pagrindinei veikėjai davė tikrą ir nuoširdžią geriausią draugę, o ne apsimetinėjančią melagę.
While Michael Sutton is the capital S in "Sleaze", it was still kind of fascinating (and sickening) watching Dawn be seduced, and then impregnated by him.The pacing for the New York storyline is good and I'd forgotten all about Dawn being whisked off to the Meadows once Grandmother Cutler learns about her pregnancy.
I feel that by the end of the book, Dawn is even stronger than ever and I'm interested to see if that continues on into the next book, which I only remember a few details about.Jimmy grew on me more during this book as well, especially when he came to visit Dawn in New York and when he came to rescue her from The Meadows.
Although I have had my heart broken - and badly - when I was a little younger and in a relationship where I was blind to the other person's flaws (and to mine!) and I can sympathize with Dawn, I found it difficult to believe that she so readily believed Michael Sutton's lies.
She had to grow up a lot in this book, and when I get to my re-read of the next book, I hope to see that she realizes how amazing Jimmy is to love her like he does.I was not fond of the twist at the end of the book.
The book ends on an extremely hopeful note though, with Dawn and Jimmy - quite literally - headed toward their future, together.
I hope the next book in the series isn't this dark and evil.
Dawn had her baby girl and it was immediately taken away by the evil Emily.
Jimmy found and rescued her, and they went back to the Hotel to confront the evil grandmother as to the whereabouts of Dawn's baby.
Before they leave to confront the family who adopted her baby, the grandmother's will is read.
He then leaves 60% of the hotel to Dawn, which outrages her "sister." The books ends with Dawn and Jimmy off to fetch her daughter.
But he runs off and leaves her.She's too scared to tell Jimmy but she tells her friend and soon Grandmother Cutler finds out.
Soon Dawn is being held prisoner at the Meadows and she's forced to do horrible chores and eat hardly nothing.Miss Emily, one of Grandmother Cutler's sisters, delivers her bay and then sends it away.
Her Father leaves her sixty percent of the hotel and now she is rich.The book ends with her and Jimmy going to the address of the people Grandmother Cutler chose to adopt her baby, Christie.
It was nice to see Dawn have a female friend, heroines with girlfriends seem to lack in the early V.C Andrews book and a friendship to me is very important to have, someone you can confide in when your family aren't the best to talk to at a certain time.
To sum this fucked up shit nicely, Crybaby Dawn is sent to a Performing Arts school in New York City, starts an affair with her music teacher, Michael Sutton, until he leaves her pregnant and abandons her.
Anyway she births Michael's child until one of the cruel sister's takes the baby away and Dawn has to try and hunt the baby down.
To enjoy this book I had to completely separate this series from the Dollanganger series.
I was very disappointed with "Dawn" because I hold the Dollanganger series in such high regard.
There are many similarities between this book and the second book in that series (Petals on the Wind).
Although this series isn't nearly as interesting as those books, the story does get better as the series progresses.
You'll enjoy this book if you consider Dawn's story through her eyes, instead of your own.
Considering her psychological development will help you enjoy the story more.
&Unlike the Dollanganger series, this is one that I would recommend to preteens.
Han habido determinados capítulos en los que no podía creer lo estúpida que estaba siendo y me daba mucha rabia, de verdad.Y otro pero gordo es que he empezado a encontrarla bastante Mary Sue: siempre tan perfecta y buena a pesar de lo mal que lo pasa (en serio, no hay prácticamente nada que no le haya pasado a esta mujer).
THIS BOOK WAS SO MUCH MORE STEAMIER.
I LOVED HOW DAWN FINALLY HAD DEVELOPED A STRONG FRIENDSHIP WITH A GIRL NAMED TRISHA.
LIKED HOW TRISHA DID NOT LOOK DOWN ON HER WHEN SHE LEARNED ALL OF DAWNS SECRETS.
THEN WHEN SHE GOT PREGNANT AND HE LEFT, SHE WAS SENT TO THAT HORRID PLACE, CALLED "THE MEDOWS." MY FAVORITE LINE FROM THAT BOOK IS WHEN AFTER JIMMY GOES THERE TO RESCUE DAWN, JUST BEFORE THEY LEAVE, DAWN HAS A CONFRONTAION W/MS.EMILY, AND SHE SAYS "HAVING TO LIVE WITH YOU, HAS MADE ME FEEL SORRY FOR SATAN, FOR SURELY HE DOES NOT DESERVE ANTHING AS HORRID AS YOU."
This book was much better than the first one.
Dawn flies off to New York to attend a school for performing arts and manages to make a few friends.
The events in this book unfold very smoothly and the new characters are interesting and full of personality.
I think one of the reasons this book worked so well was that the two most annoying characters, Philip and Clara Sue, were absent for 90% of it.
This book was good enough for me to want to continue the series.
Some of the things that happen to Dawn in this book are just astonishing, and should remind us all not to take what we have in life for granted, because we could just as easily have a life like hers any day.
The relationship between her and Jimmy is absolutely beautiful as well.
Andrews is a great author, and I cannot wait to get my hands on the next book in the series.I did happen to rate this one four stars because it began to get extremely boring towards the end of the book.
It was smooth sailing up until about page 300, and slowed down for almost the rest of the book, but definitely recommended otherwise.
After reading Dawn, I was naturally anxious to see what happened to her afterwards and how she uses the opportunity Grandmother Cutler gives her.
However, in her haste to get rid of dawn, Grandmother Cutler does not realize what might happen with sending a young girl to the big city by herself, and quite a few things happen!
This book packs quite a few punches, especially the ending where Dawn's paternity is revealed, and Grandmother Cutler's hatred of her now finally reveals the reason behind it.
Once you read Darkest Hour - the last Cutler book, the whole series makes much more sense.
This book is part of the Cutler series.
Dawn Cutler is sent to school in New York and the question is will Dawn find happiness there.
Being a V.C. Andrews book, you know the answer is no.
If you have read V.C. Andrews before, you know where the plot is heading in this book.
It was a decent read with plenty of melodrama.
I cared about what was going on in the main character's life and at times I wanted to scream not to be so naive.
I will continue to read the series and looking forward to how Dawn handles her new life.
The second of the Cutler series where Dawn started, her new life in New York, to pursue her singing career. She meets her new best friend Trisha, and Michael Sutton, her handsome music teacher. She lives in a house with a dramatic Agnes, (who her Grandmother has control over). She becomes pregnant and is shipped off to her Grandmother Cutler's sister who takes care of her while she is waiting to give birth but is cruel and works her hard. Finally she gives birth to a premature baby girl who is taken away.
It was way better than the first.
I read this series when I was younger and it was one of my favorites.
I reread the first book, Dawn, and this one in 2011, years since the last time I read it.
I didn't enjoy them as much as I used and because of that, I regretted rereading them.
I had put this series in such a high praise.
The first book was pretty bad but this one was a lot better.Dawn, though, is naive in this book just as much as the first one.
I really love reading V.C Andrews.But his books are very predictable.For example,the central character is always a girl with a evil sister,whom she meets later wen she becomes rich.Then there will be a boy in past for that girl whom she loved but later comes to know that he is somehow her brother.Also in the first part of books,the girl is poor and later she comes to know that she is actually descended from a rich family. I read 2 of his series and the stories were very similar.I guess he has a limited imagination.
Pretty blatant that a ghostwriter took over after the first book. It felt like the writer(s) didn't know the characters anymore. As nice as it was for Dawn to become friends with Trisha(finally, a friend!), Trisha really got on my nerves -- I didn't find her very likable, she hardly had anything to offer and the book could have easily done without her.. she was just a caricature. I had a lot of difficulty getting through a few chunks. A LOT of clichés.
Dawn is having trouble in her biological parents' home. She finds out her brother was actually her boyfriend at her high school. Her grandmother treats her horribly, making her work at the hotel as a chambermaid. She just wants to be with her "brother" Jimmy again and get away from her real brother Philip, her mean sister Clara Sue, and her grandmother. She gets the chance when she is sent away to a school to prepare her for a career in music. Good read!
Gosh Darn it!I wanted to loved it but so many parts of this book bothered me, pissed me off, and had me cursing to the greater gods that I had to say Although I did still love Dawn..The book itself fell flat. A pretty enjoyable read and I will definitely be finishing the series there were so many things and people in this book that I hated and found pretty damn peculiar. Overall it was decent but as I went into the others I know now it was this one that had me heated the most!
I loved this book.This series is one of the best ones. I didnt like the aunt I thought she was rude. I loved the very end of the and how the grandma died. I know thats not nice but she needed to. I loved the very end also and how we had found out how Dawn's grandma didnt like her. I cant wait till I read the rest in the series.
This is a worthy instalment in the Cutler series. In this book Dawn studies in New York, is seduced by a teacher and a truly sinister family secret regarding her paternity is revealed. We learn more about the loathsome Grandma Cutler, while Dawn and Jimmy's relationship continues to grow and develop at a steady pace.
