https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49251.Citizen_Soldiers
How many wonderful stories (books or movies) have a structure something like this: Hero reluctantly gets involved in a struggle.
The way Ambrose told it, the US Army was the hero—learning how to fight in hedgerow country, learning how to fight in a city, getting surprised in the Ardennes, making some mistakes with the Repple Depples and Market Garden, but ultimately pushing through and triumphing.
Maybe that is why World War Two is still something so many people love to study.Ambrose does a good job of giving the reader a broad picture of what was happening with the US Army in Northern Europe.
Namun ternyata buku itu masih belum tamat saya baca untuk ketiga kali dan catatan saya masih belum tuntas.Buku ini menarik untuk diulas karena cakupan cerita yang tidak hanya menggambarkan suasana kompetisi di antara para Jenderal.
Namun, kelalaian kecil membuat gerakan pasukan penyusul itu terbuka ketika mereka ingin mengisi bahan bakar di stasiun pengisian, "petrol please!" He he he Kekhawatiran keselamatan Eisenhower membuat ia dipindahkan ke sebuah markas lapangan yang dirahasiakan.Buku ini tidak hanya bercerita mengenai kompetisi para jenderal.
Lain itu, buku ini juga bukan cuma buku perang, karena di dalamnya ada cerita bagaimana organisasi yang baik dan inovatif akan lebih mampu menghadapi situasi dan perubahan di lapangan.
Racial problems were endemic at all levels, but Ambrose reserves his harshest judgment for the upper echelon commanders who remained clean, dry, and well-fed in the rear while front-line troops were asked to take objectives that often made little sense at great cost.
Had they been trained as units, with experienced sergeants and sent into battle as units fewer would have died, suggests Ambrose.
Ambrose clearly admires what these soldiers for what they endured.
In the end, the reason for fighting the war is exemplified by the tragic comments of a severely wounded German lieutenant who desperately needed a blood transfusion.
The German died refusing to be transfused.
When people know you like history, especially military history, you are probably doomed to get Ambrose books.
But that which is original is not good, and that which is good is not original." The fault of plagiarism leveled against Ambrose I mind less than his original idea, which is basically that Americans won against the Germans because they showed that virtuous citizen soldiers were more effective than the minions of the dictatorships.
And, as Norman Davies shows effectively in No Simple Victory (which I highly recommend), the western front was not where the defeat of Hitler really happened.
A history of the U.S. Army in World war II, specifically the European Theater, from D-Day to VE-Day. Very readable, with lots of awe-inspiring anecdotal reminisces from both American and German infantry and pilots; it’s also clear and informative on the types and abilities of weaponry both sides utilized.Ambrose is, of course, a patriot, almost a jingoist.
But the meat of this book is the interview and material from the front-line soldiers, and here it’s fascinating.
So in that respect, Ambrose accomplishes the book’s purpose with skill.
I read Citizen Soldiers by Stephen E.
The book describes how these "citizen soldiers" came to be soldiers, and what they did once they were.
It gives the story through the eyes of those who participated in the various units.
I enjoy this tile and the stories the former GI's share.
“Citizen Soldiers“ is the name for the draftees, national guard, and army reserve soldiers, the non-regular army soldiers, which were so necessary to field an army of the size that was needed in World War II.
Read and reviewed by Jimmie A.
While the soldier at the front line is the focus of the book, Ambrose does spend a significant amount of time detailing the drama at the command level, especially with people like Eisenhower, Patton, Bradley and Montgomery.This has been an essential read in my latest foray into World War II history.
While movies like Saving Private Ryan provide a glimpse of the sacrifices made by America's young men and women in World War II, such works fall short of the words and emotions of the people who were actually there.
I'm on a little world war II kick right now and I realized that this book would basically tell me what my grandfather and Kate's grandfather were doing in 1944.
There are lots of great first-person stories of the war here, although it is a little jumpy all around between armies and corps and divisions and stuff.
If you're like me, you'll keep saying to yourself, "wait, ok, division 30 of the 1st Army, when did he talk about them before?
The other thing you get out of this book is, if ONLY that eyepatch tom cruise guy had managed to kill Hitler like he wanted to.
Whatever else Ambrose does, he does his homework. There's enough primary material in this book to make it worthwhile just for that, for telling the story of the men and women who were there. It's hung together with enough filler material to make it interesting and coherent, and enough background to make it accessible to those without a solid grounding in WWII history. It stands out as perhaps his best book about the period, simply because it focuses on the people, not the action, which is enough for me to think it an Important Book.
A very good book on the American campaign in Europe. It has many first-hand accounts from the common GI, all woven in with the big picture of the war. Ambrose also has chapters on the Air war, battlefield medicine, military justice, morale and many other aspects of the American war effort in ETO. The only drawback to this book for me was a little to much rah, rah cheerleading , from the author. Otherwise I really enjoyed the book.
Was a good book and very informative, seemed to drag in a few places, but other than that a good read.
My father was an infantry soldier during World War II, who landed on D Day, fought in the Battles of Normandy, Hurtgen Forest, the Bulge, helped to liberate concentration camps, and suffered emotionally as all combat soldiers must.
If any person had a father or grandfather who fought in Europe during World War II or has an interest in U.
Also, unlike many other books about World War II I have read, Ambrose doesn't mince words about times when the commanders made tragic mistakes that resulted in senseless casualties.
I probably would give this four stars if I was not already such an avid reader of WWII history.
He certainly does have a great knack at taking the oral histories of veterans and stringing them together in a compelling, easy-to-read format, drawing in readers who perhaps would not read about WWII history.
A must read for any of our military holidays.
I finished it last night, gripping and heartwarming & heartbreaking.
These men, these ordinary few, is there really anything more to say?
I miss these brave men......Stephen Ambrose is a National Treasure.
One day I’ll get thru all his books.
On a side note: I read this with my sons.
Over the course of the week of Memorial Weekend thru DDay the other day.
I’m not impressed with their history curriculum, so most of the books I read in Autobiography are pretty much all read by the family.
Telling the history of the United States Army from the perspective of the individuals who served in Europe during World War II instead of from the perspective of battles and troop movements makes that conflict even more devastating.
I just couldn't finish it. It was neither very informtive or interesting for me personally.
First book I've added in a long time to my "required reading for the human race" list. Be aware that there is some soldier language in the book.
The blurb from the catalog of the National Library Service for the Blind and Physically Handicapped reads:"An eleven-month World War II chronicle spanning the period from D-Day to Germany's surrender on May 7, 1945.
Hearing the stories of the war in the voices of average soldiers is a powerful experience indeed.
As I read, I kept thinking of my father who proudly flew the B24 in World War II.I will admit that my mind frequently wandered as I read, but that had nothing to do with Ambrose's writing which is exceptionally powerful.
This is a great book, either read on its own or as a sequel to D-Day, Ambrose's book about June 6, 1944.
There are lots of anecdotes about events and conditions of the war, mainly on the front lines but also elsewhere in Europe.
I had to do a little supplemental reading (Wikipedia) to get a good overview of the campaign; once I did that, I was able to follow along with the overall plot of the book.Definitely worth a read for any military history buff.
Such an awesome way to tell the story of WWII. He sets up the overall historical events but fills around the time line with stories of individuals to give us a sense of what was really going on at that time and place. These guys and their support system back home definitely earned the title of the greatest generation.
For example, while telling about the first days of the Battle of the Bulge, Ambrose includes diary entries of both German and American soldiers that explained how they each felt about the quick change of direction in the campaign.
As you can imagine, they were not very friendly to those who were destroying their homes and killing their families.As a final note, Ambrose does a wonderful job showing that there were good and bad among both sides.
He talks about kindness showed by German soldiers and civilians, as well as their atrocities.
I really, really loved Ambrose's way of combining very personal accounts of the soldiers on the front lines up through the ranks to those making the big decisions.
It's one thing to read about the decisions at the top for what they wanted accomplished and the divisions and units they sent to do so, but it makes it so much more agonizing and amazing to have the accounts of what the actual people in those divisions and units had to do to to meet those objectives.
It probably wasn't the best choice for a 'summer read' - but it was still a pretty good book.Ambrose (who wrote the awesome book "Band of Brothers") is a military historian for military historians.
Once I decided to read this book as a collection of thousands of short stories about WWII in Europe post D-Day, it became a lot easier to read.
Ambrose does a great job of exploring post D-Day Europe from the perspective of the junior officers and NCOs on the front line.
As much as I expected that a book about the US Army would be patriotic, at some points I found it so pro-American it was getting pompous.
Quoting countless witnesses makes the narration fast-paced and fascinating, as you can often see the same event from the point of view of a few people, sometimes even from both sides of the conflict.
Ambrose was absolutely fascinated with the World War II and it shows.
Hohohoho...Selesai bagian 2 (Battle od the Bulge), masuk Bagian 3------------------------------------------------Beres dah bagian satunya, masuk bagian duaSo Patton said to Eisenhower.
Stop Monty where he is, give me all the fuel coming to the Continent, and I'll be in Berlin before Thanksgiving.
Monty said to Einsenhower.
Stop Patton where he is, give me all the fuel coming to the Continent, and I'll be in Berlin before the end of October.Dan Eisenhower pun pusing tujuh keliling :DDooh, ini dua Jenderal ini brantem mulu.
Dah adu panco ajah, yang menang ambil tuh semua pasokan bahan bakarnya.
The first hand accounts of every day soldiers from both sides of the war gives a unique history of World War II that at times had my heart lifted in pride for what these people accomplished and moved me to tears by thier sacrifice.
This book should be required reading for every High School history class if for no other reason that maybe if teenagers today realized that 80 years ago people not much older than them were will to fight and die to stop tyranny than maybe they would stop whining about how the world isn't being handed to them and do something.
This book gives a graphic picture of the major impact the American GIs had on the war in Europe.
Without their numerical and arms superiority it would have been unlikely that Hitler would have been defeated.
The various campaigns are covered but the difference being it is told through the accounts of the soldiers who were taking part and from both sides.
There were atrocities were prisoners were shot and moments when humanity surfaced as in the Easter church service with GIs and German civilians participating.
All in all an excellent book.
Ground-level narratives lend an authenticity and immediacy that gets lost in other media: Digging trenches into frozen ground to spend the winter night in the Black Forest?
Sick, cold, tired, hungry and scared...and you can hear your enemies scant feet away in the pitch black, doing the same thing?
Kind of makes me rethink just how tough my toughest winter Boy Scout trips really were.
:) Cutting through ancient hedgerows, set up with cross-fire machine gun killing fields also gives you pause.
This is powerful stuff, when taken at the boot-level point of view.I like it, quite a bit.
A fascinating book about Europe W.W.II as told by the men on the front lines, not a media hugging officer or a dry historian. Ambrose captures the sense of history from both sides of the fence, sticks to the facts as we know them and keeps his comments to a minimum. The best part is a large portion of the book is actual quotes and personal stories taken from the men and women who were actually there. The book starts off a bit slow, but picks up momentum as one gets going, and than it's hard to put it down.
This is my first WWII book and so far, so good.
Ambrose tells the story of the War in Europe from the eyes of the ordinary, everyday soldier.
So, unlike other historical books I've read, this one does not focus on the "major" players.
I'm about 100 or so pages in.
The time period is around August of 1944.
The battle of Normandy is over and the Allies have advanced some.
I'm enjoying learning about WWII and will add this subject to my rotation (Revolutionary times, Civil war and now WWII) all to prepare for my next job (a high school history teacher).
