https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8155.A_Woman_of_Substance
(originally published in 1979)A Classic saga that stands the test of time-This is the story of Emma Harte, a poverty ridden young woman employed by a wealthy family, who eventually works her way to the top of a rich and powerful business empire.
But, when she is informed that forces are working to overthrow her, taking her decision -making authority away- she sets a plan in action…But, as she schemes to preempt a coup de grace, the reader is transported back in time to Emma’s humble beginnings, following her through the years as she builds her business, makes friends and enemies, makes fateful decisions, falls passionately in love, all while plotting her revenge against the powerful family that betrayed her.
Lovely series! a book of family values: their success,substance...as richly characterize as ever and has great depth..well written..recommend (paperback!)
Great series! one of the best novels in print...had to reread it a few times because it was that good,the storyline was well developed along with all the characters. The plotline showed emotional turmoil for its main character (Emma)because it was too much on her family...kudos to the movie also
This is a very long, verbose book that has a good story buried among its endless descriptions of, well, just about everything.
This book left a lot of unanswered questions in my mind, and there were a lot of times when I was skimming through the long, boring descriptions of Emma's furniture and china and walls and clothes and the color of the sky and the degree of greyness of the clouds - ack!!
The interactions between the characters were generally quite good, but it was like slogging through mud to get to them.
I found I did not particularly care for BTB's writing style, at all.
Magnificent, a spellbinding saga in lifeAdvantages: truly captivating, can boost your willDisadvantages: noneA bestselling book by Barbara Taylor-Bradford, A woman of substance is a spellbinding saga in life that will instill within your heart, the will and drive to succeed.
This is the first of the six novels about Emma Harte and her family, among others are Hold the Dream, To be the Best, Emma's Secret, Unexpected Blessings and Just Rewards.
A Woman of Substance is really one of the best novel that i have read.
It was really captivating and enthralling story every woman should read.
I think this is the first grown up book I read. I recall reading it in bed when I was having a sleepover at my aunts and uncles house when my parents were away. If I needed babysitting perhaps I was to young to be reading this?! I do want to re-read this though. Those were the days of reading whenever and however. Nice to reminisce. I wonder if this is like Danielle Steele?! Which I do like of course!
I read the series, each about the next generation of the Harte family, and enjoyed them immensely, but each book stands alone with satisfying endings.A friend described it as a "delicious read," which is an apt description.
When the series ended I missed them as I did a dear friend.Shortly after reading this I read a news article telling about the life of Estee Lauder and the rise of her eponymous cosmetics empire.
It was so similar to Emma Harte's story I told my mother, a devotee of all things Estee Lauder, and she recommended A Woman of Independent Means, which I devoured and it was an equally wonderful novel which also changed my life.
My all-time favorite book/story.I will re-read and re-read this book time and again.The beginning of a large saga, this book captures the hearts of anyone who loves a great story and one with a young girl named Emma who has a "Plan with a capital P." Emma stays true to her plan and in the meantime we are learning all about her and her circumstances as a young child in poverty.
The following books in the same series follow Emma and her posterity into the world of money and lots of it.
An enriching and sweet story, the first of the series of which is my favorite of them all.
It was a NYT Bestseller in the 1970s, so I feel like the writing style, etc was a bit dated.
My main complaints were that the author loved to use big, impressive words and described everything in super detail.
I'm all for using good vocab, but sometimes a simple word does the job best.
Also, the dialogue seemed a bit forced and unnatural, and the main character HAD NO FAULTS.
It kept me interested the whole way through, and the story was good, albeit a little unbelievable.
My mother read this book when it first came out in the late 70's and she still says it was one of her favorite books.
However, you aren't going to find a Kindle edition and you're not going to find it in the book section at BJ's, you'll have to get it out of the library - which I hadn't done in years.
Head to your local library and find it!
It's super long but reads fast and you'll find you can't put it down!
Yes it is a long book, yes there are long descriptive passages of furniture and clothing, but all of this should remind the reader of the time period in which Emma, her friends, her opponents and her family live.
A time not like today but a woman who would most likely succeed in today's world!As I recall from my previous reading some of the unknown or unanswered information other reviewers are looking for are answered in the remaining books in the series.
i recall reading at least 3 but I see now a few more have been added.
I look forward to what I remember, what I've forgotten and what the writer found to add in the newest book.
It's the rag to riches story of a British woman who went from lowly maid to powerful head of a business empire in the early 20th century when women weren't by and large able to rise to such heights.
However, the writing style here was puerile romance aisle, and far too wretched to make me willing to stay with this for over 900 trade paperback pages.
Within ten pages we have such cliched and purple writing as "implacable mouth" and eyes "cold as steel," (Emma Harte's, our heroine--they're green--classic Mary Sue color--as is those of her granddaughter protege--those are "violet.") and loads of adverb, adjective and simile prose pile-ups and dizzying point of view shifts.
Also, this author likes to make extremely long-winded descriptions of interiors, which I find detract from the plot, especially when a character is ruminating on important things and these ruminations are interrupted with a long description.
I really felt that Emma's actions could have spoken for themselves and that this repeated reminder of her strengths was unnecessary.Having said this, however, I was able to make it through the first part of the book and after this point, I began to really connect with the story.
The characters in this book are so real, and many, like Blackie, are lovable.
A Woman of Substance Is a meticulously plotted, extensively detailed, verbose and sometimes tedious saga, that overall comes to a satisfying conclusion.
The novel spans over 50 + years, following Emma from rags-to-riches, as she basically builds an enterprise from the ground up.
The character of Emma is a strong one.
She's a calloused, strong willed, business woman at her core.
This book certainly isn't for everyone, but if you enjoy long and verbose sagas, you will definitely enjoy this book.
Far too long.
Far too much "colloquial dialect" in the parts dealing with Emma's young life.
If edited, the story could be better, but still not really memorable.This book even contains some very surprising grammatical errors (which were obviously not intentional, as those in Emma and her family's tedious dialect were)The seduction scene in the cave drags on and on until one thinks the characters will be to old to act upon their desires.
As period fiction the book is OK, as historical fiction it doesn't offer much.
I was not impressed.All in all, I expected more from a book that was such a best seller.
36 pages of insufferably bad writing was enough to convince me that I would not make it through 910 pages of it.
Everything described in such minute detail, with adverbs piled on adjectives piled on multiple subordinate clauses in every sentence.
Everything told; nothing shown.
It's maddening.
A few reviews seem to suggest that it gets at least marginally better after the first section, but I just can't do it.
I also gather that the story itself is half decent, so maybe if someone makes a mini-series or something, I'll watch it.
But I cannot slog through this atrociously overwrought mess.
Read it many years ago and loved it. Was a Barbara Taylor Bradford devotee. Just wanted to add it to my books. I've read most of her books.
I flat out, wholeheartedly love this book. Both the plucky Emma Hart and the sweep of 50 years of history make this a leap-from-the-pages saga. Emma's battle from poverty to high-powered business woman is a dramatic, sensational story and Bradford's prose captures Yorkshire in gorgeously. Anyone who loves a big, breathtaking story will love this. (Also, it's the best of the bunch. Hold the Dream isn't nearly as good, nor are any if its other sequels)
It was completely unrealistic and Emma grew into more and more of a fake character.BTB tried writing about the greatest woman she could come up with, but got lost and ended up writing about an unrealistic woman.
BTB gave her a perfect personality where Emma possessed every single virtue from intelligence to charity to humidity but also strength.
They were all attractive (which is shallow writing), nice and humble and good (I was practically chocking every time BTB described some new character as truly good, filled with light.....ugh!!), and somehow where able to give Emma whatever she needed at the opportune time!
This isn't a work for everyone - the early parts of the book are intensely descriptive, again like those great British literature works, listed above, so there is great description of the sweeping moors, the stately manors, etc.
I wound up enjoying the main character and felt the detailed description of her life painted a true characterization of a complex woman such as she.
I enjoyed this fallable character and greatly enjoyed this long book.
Again, if you don't enjoy long, sweeping, narrative descriptions of people & places, don't go for this book.
Fans of historical fiction will enjoy this novel.
The book was published in the 70's and was one of the world's top bestsellers, translated into many languages.
Curling up with this book on a rainy day, being transported into a bygone era and a world in which the protagonist rises from poverty to wealth, and from being downtrodden to triumphant, but not without some price to pay during any of those stages, the portrayal of the protagonist in this sweeping novel also offers parallel glimpses into different bits and pieces of our own lives as well.
I have definitely read this book but remember only bits and pieces of the story... maybe because I skipped some parts of the book to get to the end of it, not because it was bad but because the book was very long for the teenage version of me to complete properly. Giving it a 3* for the bits I remember reading....
I find it funny that the author has some strange preconceived idea about business people—that they are in business to dominate others, or some such nonsense. People are in business for one reason: they need the money. Simple as that. The main character. Emma, is such strong-willed woman, with so much confidence in herself, etc, yet spends the whole of the first chapter straightening her back, and reminding herself how tough and wise she is. I kept reading, but did not enjoy it, so just quit reading. Not my kind of book, I guess.
And it makes me sad that there isn't a moral compass for the characters in the book.
"Paul had patiently explained to her that their combined wealth set them above the usual conventions, making them invulnerable to social censure, and she admitted the truth in what he said.
Her natural self-confidence and courage soon overcame her earlier misgivings." "Tell me, did you discover anything special along the way that you would like to impart to your old friend?""Yes, Blackie, I did.
Not unintelligent, educated at the best schools, Arthur was, however, so indolent and self-involved he was utterly unable to retain any serious thoughts for very long.
I read it through very quickly; and frankly, I loved it.
It was pure escapism and the focus on a female making it in business was lovely to see at that time.
I found Emma was quite often a difficult heroine to always admire or love because she was stubborn, illogical and bore huge grudges.
I loved the adaptation with Jenny Seagrove who gave Emma sufficient warmth to make her likeable and read the book again as a result and though I still enjoyed the story, I was not so enraptured as first time round.

Read this book several years ago, and still think about the characters at times.
The main character begins life as a servant to a wealthy family, falls in love with one of the sons and becomes pregnant.
While pregnant, she leaves that household and moves to a city to start life on her own with her new baby.
Beginning with a small food market, she is able to build a large empire and becomes an extremely wealthy woman.
She met her lifelong friend, Blackie, while still a servant and they were good friends for many years through all of her successes and personal disappointments.
I thought this was a great book!
It was so good that I read the series.
Emma Harte is a once in a lifetime character.
Her story was well done, the other characters were superbly written and I couldn't put id down.
I have re-read this book several times over the years and just recently recommended it to my daughter.
The story has everything - love, friendship, fear, loathing, heartbreak.
While I was reading it was as if I knew this woman and went on her roller coaster ride of emotions with her.
Saw it as a TV series when I was barely 10.
Giving me inspiration ever since.
I read the book in class 11th.
Re-read it again a couple of years later.Some say it's long, I say it's not enough.
loved the chemistry between edwin and Emma and again Paul and Emma.
Hated the husbands in between.
The jars of homemade jam, the betrayal by Edwin, the scene up in the mountains between Edwin and Emma, the friendship with Blackie, the assault by Edwin's brother, the death of the father, all still fresh in my mind like I read it just yesterday.
This is honestly one of the BEST books I have ever read, and I am an avid reader.
It tells the story of one woman's entire life, which might not sound all that entertaining but it was absolutely riveting.
I loved the language at the beginning of the book and then watching that language develop with the main character's education and with the progression of time.
The characters were the sort that you will not be able to shake, it is a powerful and impactful book that you will not soon forget.
Take the time to read this, in my opinion it should be a classic.
