https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/136977.The_Places_That_Scare_You
I've still got tough times to face, so it will stay right where it is on my nightstand.At first I was totally repelled by the title in accordance with my instant aversion to anything sounding like a self-help book (perhaps that's too telling...) (I bristled before falling in love with Amy Hempel's Reasons to Live), but then I thought, "You know what?
Here we sit in a nest that's getting pretty smelly and that hasn't served its function for a very long time" (8).
Smelly nest.
I was at B&N looking for some other book when I mistakenly picked up this one so I placed it back on the shelf and thought nothing of it.
Then out of nowhere the books from the top shelf fell on my head.
When I looked at the pile they were all books by Pema Chodron.
So, I began picking them up and when I looked at the shelf next to me (the second shelf from the bottom) there was another row of books by Pema Chodron (obviously placed on the wrong shelf) and the cover of this book staring at me.
Only through this process, she says, can we experience the deep joy of being alive.This is a great companion volume to her book "When Things Fall Apart." It elaborates on themes introduced there, describing several practices of Tibetan Buddhism, some ancient and long forgotten, which help us not only cope with anxiety but use it to overcome fearfulness.
Fear immobilizes us, makes us pull the covers over our heads, and isolates us from others.Chödrön, a student of Chögyam Trungpa, encourages the consistent practice of meditation.
That is the place where I find myself over and over again.Here how Pema explains it;"We are told about the pain of chasing after pleasure and futility of running from pain.
Anxiety, heartbreak and tenderness mark the in-between state.
The challange is to stay in the middle rather than buy into struggle and complaint.
Becoming intimate with the queasy feeling of being in the middle of nowhere only makes our hearts more tender.
When we are brave enough to stay in the middle, compassion arises spontaneously.
took this book to read on my first jury duty summons... Didn't realize I was reading a "self-help" book until I was done. Uplifting and encouraging... like a little Yoda in my backpack.
Authentic joy is not a euphoric state or a feeling of being high. Rather, it is a state of appreciation that allows us to participate fully in our lives. In my life, times of crisis or great change, though painful, have had the power to reawaken me. I remind myself of what is important and what is trivial; I take joys in simple things and appreciate everyday good fortune; I empathize more readily and react more kindly; I feel fully myself and fully aware.But such elevated states quickly fade. R
I remind myself of what is important and what is trivial; I take joys in simple things and appreciate everyday good fortune; I empathize more readily and react more kindly; I feel fully myself and fully aware.But such elevated states quickly fade.
The central premise of this book is that the crisis state I described above—one of openness to the world, sympathy with others, joy in simple things—is basic to human life, and gets covered up through fear.
But in my experience it is certainly true that overcoming fears helps to reconnect me with the world in that basic, joyful way I described above.
4.5*"We cling to a fixed idea of who we are and it cripples us.
Nothing and no one is fixed.
That’s an important question." Not much to say about this one: Pema has a great way of explaining concepts relating to meditation, but I would not recommend this book to someone who is new to Buddhism or meditation practice.
If anything, this book is a good accompaniment but it does require some familiarity with terms and concepts.Nevertheless, a thoughtful compilation of stories and advice which invites readers and practitioners to question everything.
Pema Chödrön's The Places That Scare You came in a time of personal need and it's been a medicine I've enjoyed taking for dealing with the uncertainty and pains of life.
It can be a bit repetitive and some of the analogies seem a little flimsy but I think the book still stands as worthwhile and nourishing.The Places That Scare You is an introduction to a particular perspective on Bodhicitta, lessons and ideas in exercising compassion and by doing so, come to accept ourselves (note: I'm sure this is hugely reductive but bear with me).
I checked this out before the election because we read the first four chapters of the class and I wanted to read the rest.
However, when the election hit, I wasn't expecting the results.
Basically, I needed this to calm my brain down and find a way to make sense of things.I'm very familiar with Buddhism.
My mom is very well practiced in teachings, especially ones to do with love.
All of the teachings Chodron brings up in this book are ones I've lived with, just without names and specific practices.Honestly, I recommend this book for everyone.
If there's something that's scaring you or just upsetting you, it may help in some way.
This is the first Chodron book I have read, though I have always been drawn to her titles.
For example, I have been generally uncomfortable with uncertainty, and thought "I should read that book".
What I love about this book is the way she describes the practices both for moving towards compassion for ourselves and others and finding a true connection with ourselves and the world around us by training in acceptance of what is.
This book could be comforting or terrifying depending on one's perspective at the time of reading it.
I love this book, and it is one I will return to time and again.
I hate self-help books almost as much as I hate sentences that begin with I.
It’s the writing, which is uniformly poor, at least I think so.
Bad writing is hand-holding writing.
I’m not a dog in a collar being taken for a walk on a leash.
The fourth is the first, like an M.C. Escher staircase, it takes you to the beginning.
I still don’t like self-help books, just as I still don’t like sentences that begin with I, but now I think this may not be a self-help book at all, but an other-help book, a user’s manual, an operating system.
Chapter 4, "Learning to Stay," discusses living with discomfort, whether that is physical, emotional, etc.
I just kept thinking of a friend who often follows a statement with "But I have and am in my breath, so I am fine." I wonder if he is a bit Buddhist.Chapters on loving-kindness, compassion, and joy insist on this being something that is shared, based on empathy and understanding.
"Compassion becomes real when we recognize our shared humanity."I was a bit surprised - places that scare you are not tangible.
It is another person's pain, our own discomfort, the suffering of a stranger.
That’s another chapter, but in this one, “when we touch the center of sorrow, when we sit with discomfort without trying to fix it, when we stay present to the pain of disapproval or betrayal and let it soften us, these are times that we connect with bohdichitta.”She goes on to say, “tapping into that shaky and tender place has a transformative effect…just to stay there, even for a moment, feels like a genuine act of kindness to ourselves.” Bodhichitta is trapped inside us, as groundwater is trapped inside stone, and “rather than going after these walls and barriers with a sledgehammer, we pay attention to them.
A really beautiful book that makes ideas about Buddhism and meditation and the like very accessible.
A great read for someone going through a tough time but also just a generally great read for anyone?
Because we've all been through tough times at some point?
But that's besides the point and I'm using humour to cover up the fact that this book hit me so hard at various points and just really made me reevaluate quite a few things about how I have been doing things in my life.
This feeling of groundlessness scares us, and yet it is the state of the universe.
Pema Chödrön's book explains in gentle, simple, and often humorous ways that we need not be scared of facing this groundlessness in ourselves and our world; if we accept its presence, our lives will change for the better.
Change happens in every moment of our lives, and it is through this beautiful book that we will begin to awaken to the fact that we don't have to be afraid of it any longer.
The thing about Buddhist texts is that I often find myself reading something and thinking, "wow, I have missed that point all these years!" I don't know if I have missed them, or if I just forget and then come back to them or if I just wasnt ready to hear them the first 5 times, but no matter there are some potent thoughts in this little book.
Denigrating ourselves is probably the major way that we cover over bodhicitta." "We must honor ourselves as the source of wisdom and compassion" Yes yes, important points (at least for me).
I've been reading this for a while (5 months!) and really can't get into it, although I love the author and her ideas definitely resonate with me.
Definitely good, but not right for me at this time.
I might try it again years from now...My inability to read the entire book from start to finish does not mean that this is not a good book.
It's just one of those that you have to read at the exact right time in your life, or the message doesn't resonate.
2.5 stars. Feeling kind of "Meh" about this one. As much as I like Pema Chodron's writing, this title seems a bit deceiving. I was hoping to get a more hands-on, practical guide to meditation in daily life, but in "Places," she seems more interested in telling us all how to heal the world through loving-kindness and compassion practices -- not that it's a bad thing, but a bit broader topic-wise than I'd thought I was getting. Worth a read if you are interested in mindfulness meditation and wider applications for relationships.
quotes:"Do I prefer to grow up and relate to life directly, or do I choose to live and die in fear?""Thus we become less and less able to reside with even the most fleeting uneasiness or discomfort.
What begins as a slight shift of energy - a minor tightening of our stomach, a vague, indefinable feeling that something bad is about to happen - escalates into addiction.
This is our way of trying to make life predictable.
Because we mistake what always results in suffering for what will bring us happiness, we remain stuck in the repetitious habit of escalating our dissatisfaction"
This is a book that needs time to ponder, percolate, and wonder. Sometimes it gets rather thick and then I needed to reread. Pema Chödrön guides you to think about yourself and what scares you and she also has you go outside of yourself and think of people you care for and people you don't care for and those you do not know. I'm glad I bought this book because it is full of highlights that I will refer back to for a long time to come.
We become unnerved by the possibility of freedom, and when the walls come down we don't know what to do.3 Strategies we use to provide the illusion of security, to avoid life as it is.-The lord of form.
Any form of ideology or belief(-ism) which we use to avoid the uneasiness of not knowing what is going on.
It is the capacity to relax with not knowing, not figuring everything out, not being at all sure who we are.Addictions form habits because they provide temporary, yet unfulfilling relief from discomfort.
Pema Chodron's wisdom shines through every page of this marvelous book. I have been turning to her profound words to help me during difficult times. A wonderful book.
It shows you how to sit with yourself and accept all the things that make you an individual-- the good and the bad.
Just sitting around is something I don't do often and I know I need to face up to what I am rather than just being a human doing.
I know I've picked up some good ideas for things I can do and be more aware of and know that another two or three readings of this book is in order.
Overall, an interesting read and a good one for those who want to delve deeper into their own being.
I believe I have read this book 3 times now and each time I take something new with me. After this reading I see how much her words help me relax and be open to the truth of change. This book is not just for difficult times. Pema's Guide to Fearlessness in Difficult Times is a guide to being open to life just as it is. The bonus is that we are given specific instructions on how to deal with our uncomfortable energy.
Here is a book on Tibetan Buddhism, with lots of practical affirmations and insights into how to meet the difficult times in our everyday life how to build courage to face our fears. This is a good book to have at home and re-read it many times.
This is a book that clearly explains some basic concepts in Buddhism. A reference to return to again and again with clear, pertinent examples of how to find love, compassion, joy, and equinimity even in the most difficult times in our lives.
Vilken svår bok. Den måste jag nog läsa på om begreppen hon pratar om och läsa den igen och se om den träffar mig mer...
Here Pema reiterates her advice to learn to constructively work through what we are feeling and face our own fears and anxieties head on -- which of course is never easy, this path isn't for the faint of heart.
Also, if you know anyone who struggles with anxiety, depression or anything of that nature I highly recommend her books ("Start Where You Are") or one of her audio lectures being a good place to start.A few quotes worth sharing:“A further sign of health is that we don't become undone by fear and trembling, but we take it as a message that it's time to stop struggling and look directly at what's threatening us.”“Things are as bad and as good as they seem.
In 'The Places That Scare You' Pema provides some great tools to deal with uncertainty.
As I was reading, I could instantly apply many of the teachings directly to difficulties I'm facing in my own life, from uncertainty at work, uncertainty in my personal life, chronic and constantly evolving medical issues that I struggle to deal with, as well as all of the upheaval and change happening in the world.
These teachings help us relax that grip, and learn to ride the wave of uncertainty with compassion and appreciation for the present moment.
If you're looking for a short book with basics on Buddhist teachings for how to cope with afflictive emotions like fear and anger, this book is fine.
It feels like a list of Buddhist platitudes.
It feels like they "throw out the baby with the bathwater." In this book, Pema talks a lot about "fearlessness." That the goal should be to shed all fears.
No, not permanently safe, just safer.
Maybe what Pema means by fearlessness is "freedom from irrational fears." A lot of my fears, maybe even most of them, are irrational.
A better goal is to simply gain insight into each fear about whether they're serving me, not fearlessness.
