https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2800.The_Mechanical_Bride
Marchall McLuhan hates everything, too, so why do I like him more than Slavoj Zizek? I will tell you why. Because I am petty, so when Zizek says, 'everything is stupid,' I say, 'whatever, duh.' But when McLuhan says 'the media is evil,' I say, 'yeah! I am the choir, preach to me!'
The Mechanical Bride may have been an important book at one point, but now it feels very old.
A frightening book about tv, radio, print and other ads, ones that change our goals, alter the neighborhood, and elect our presidents. It's impossible to measure precisely how ads affect our lives, but this book tries. Let's face it, from now until the day we die, morning, noon and night, seven days a week, we're going to be bombarded by mind numbing ads. Escaping the effects of ads is tough if not impossible. This book might make you think more about it. That's a good start.
Witty and entertaining but not one of McLuhan's seminal works. My original thought upon picking this up was that it was like an American companion to Mythologies by Roland Barthes. Not so much. The latter still fascinates, while this one is just cute. It reads at about the same level as Thomas Frank.
McLuhan prints a really old advertisement then gives his opinions on it on the same or opposite page. The ads are hideous, the opinions trite, and the book worthless.McLuhan admits in the preface that he is not doing art criticism but rather politics dressed up as art criticism. So not only is he misusing art but he is doing what he accuses mass media of doing - trying to force his opinions on others under the disguise of them being what the others want. No. No thank you, we are fine thanks and do not need your wares.
Amazing book. Written in 1951 when only 1 in 10 homes had TVs. This book really sets the ground work for a lot of the intellectual paths that came after it.
http://gnomeship.blogspot.com/2016/10...
Actually seeing McLuhan's early work in pop culture and communications makes this book a fantastic trip through memory lane.
Once you can see the facade you wonder why it was invisible for so long!Maybe we need to look again at the Mechanical Bride and see her for who she really is: False Maria!
"The Vanguard Press (1926–1988) was a United States publishing house established with a $100,000 grant from the left wing American Fund for Public Service, better known as the Garland Fund."Self-explanatory. Don't pick up this book expecting anything less than the most painful 157 pages of wretched, petulant leftist claptrap you'd find outside of a community college. Honestly delivered more of a headache than Sorrel's Reflections on Violence, which I'd consider a major accomplishment.
First book of the new year! Marshall McLuhan uses commentary on ads to show how the best trained minds of our age have made it their full time business to get inside the collective public mind in order to manipulate, exploit and control. This generates a lot of heat but no light and keeps us in a constant state of mental rutting. AMAZING BOOK.
كيف تجسد الاعلانات في المجلات والجرائد احلام شعب وثقافته؟ من مستحضرات التجميل التي تحوي وعودا بالجمال والانوثة، الى اعلانات السجائر التي تعد وعودا بأن تصبح أكثر رجولة، الى مستحشرات التنظيف المنزلي التي تعدكم بأنك ستكوني ربة بيت ماهرة لتسعدي عائلتك. احببت فكرة الكتاب وتعليقات ماكلوهن الساخرة ولا أملك الا ان "أرى صوته" عندما شاهدت بعض الاعلانات الساذجة كلما عدت للوطن :)
As I was reading this book one thought accompanied me throughout reading almost all of it: was this really published 1951? The author's ability to unravel the mysteries of the human psyche in our modern time was truly amazing!Highly recommended!
Decades later, the observations made in this title, written largely as a collection of essays, are still incredibly relevant.For any artist in New Media, any Publisher, and any child of the digital age, it's definitely worth the read.
An absolutely fascinating view of our culture from a completely unique perspective. This is where McLuhan started his journey of exploration into how our tools, and means of storing and moving experience shape how we view the world; as well as how they extend our various faculties and appendages.
When I read this book I was working in the advertising industry as a young art director. McLuhan's clear perspective on the nature of the greed industry opened my eyes to see beyond mere seductive images and the mind machinations in the viewer. A breath taking work.
Very interesting read on the culture of commerce and the disconnect that can happen between members of our modern society.
Definitely does not stand the test of time. Couldn't spend more than 5 minutes with it.
