https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9515964-the-inimitable-jeeves
“We Woosters do not lightly forget.
At least, we do - some things - appointments, and people's birthdays, and letters to post, and all that - but not an absolutely bally insult like the above.” Absolutely hilarious!
The adventures of Bertie Wooster and Jeeves are narrated by Wodehouse with his natural flair and brilliantly fun-filled manner.
P.G. Wodehouse shows off his comic genius in this timeless funny classic.If you are feeling down then i would recommend a dose of Wodehouse, which will refresh you up and fill you with a glow of warmth for sure.
And it is one reason why P.G. Wodehouse is one of my all time favorite and most read author.
The Inimitable Jeeves (1923) is the first full-length book completely devoted to Jeeves and Wooster (My Man Jeeves, only half Jeeves, featured the proto-Wooster Reggie Pepper), and my sense is that neither the gentleman’s gentleman, nor his gentleman, has reached perfection here.
Jeeves is less Olympian, perhaps a tad too familiar with Bertie, Bingo and their betting friends, and Wooster’s narrative voice lacks that miraculous unity of brainless superficiality and incisive social observation which characterizes Woosterian narration at its finest.
All this is completely excusable in a story collection, but The Inimitable claims to be a novel.Still it is Jeeves and Wooster, and it is funny.
3.5 starsThe first book in the series is all about Wooster and Jeeves whereas this book is more about Bingo and Jeeves, Bingo and Wooster, well- Bingo in general. Am I complaining?-- NO.I thoroughly enjoyed all the idiocracies that Bingo got into.There is an apt statement that describes Bingo...  "But there's no reticence about Bingo. He always reminds me of the hero of a musical comedy who takes the centre of the stage, gathers the boys around him in a circle, and tells them all about his love
Am I complaining?-- NO.I thoroughly enjoyed all the idiocracies that Bingo got into.There is an apt statement that describes Bingo...
"But there's no reticence about Bingo.
He always reminds me of the hero of a musical comedy who takes the centre of the stage, gathers the boys around him in a circle, and tells them all about his love at the top of his voice."
Bingo got into this hilarious love escapades and then looked for help from Wooster.
Wooster in turn looked at Jeeves to solve all the problems and Jeeves did that splendidly as usual.
The many situations in the book had me snickering.
Overall this book is definitely engaging and lifts one's mood!
"I am no expert on what Honoria likes to call literature.""I believe I would concur in that judgement," Jeeves agreed, and I fancied I saw his left eyebrow twitch slightly.
It almost makes me feel there could be something to this reading lark.""I see the book has profoundly affected you," said Jeeves.
"You barely even glanced at the thing!""It pains me to relate," said Jeeves, "that a glance was enough.
What was the title again?""The Inimitable Jeeves," I said, mystified.
It's nothing a chap like me should be wasting his time on.""A very wise decision, sir," said Jeeves.
"This is the eel's eyebrows"  exclaims Bingo at one moment, and I would apply the comment to this second collection of stories featuring laid-back boulevardier Bertie Wooster and his brainy valet Jeeves.
I would say the volume is closer to the novel format than to the usual mix of unconnected sketches.In the first story, Bingo falls in love with a waitress and petitions Bertie, or more precisely requests the use of Jeeves outsized intellect, to devise a plan to convince his rich uncle to approve the marriage and to dole out the money needed for the comfortable life.
I also enjoyed Aunt Agatha’s determined meddling and Bertie’s reluctant involvement in the family battles.My enjoyment of Dorothy Sayer’s Lord Peter Wimsey series inspired me to give Wodehouse a try—the two authors were contemporaries, and I suspected that the relationship between Lord Peter and his butler Bunter might be a nod to Wooster & Jeeves.
Lord Peter may have started out a bit more like Bertie in the first book, but he quickly became a sleuth to be reckoned with; however the relationship between Lord and butler has definite similarities, confirming my hypothesis.
An early (1920s) and solid collection of Wooster & Jeeves from PG Wodehouse, the master of British light farce.The short stories herein include "Jeeves in the Springtime", "Aunt Agatha Takes the Count", "Scoring Off Jeeves", "Sir Roderick Comes to Lunch", "Jeeves and the Chump Cyril", "Comrade Bingo", "The Great Sermon Handicap", "The Purity of the Turf", "The Metropolitan Touch", "The Delayed Exit of Claude and Eustace", and "Bingo and the Little Woman".Most are about love and most involve Bertie Wooster's old school chum Bingo Little, a man in love with every woman under the sun it would seem.
I'm somewhat astounded myself at the number of volumes of, not only Wodehouse but of Bertie and Jeeves stories I've read, listened to and in some cases placed on my own shelves.
I was laid up the first time I took a Wodehouse book from the library and these stories turned out to be ones that my wife and I both found sidesplittingly hilarious.Later I came across a couple of stories where some language that today would be considered offensive was used and I try to warn people up front that it's in a couple of stories.
Please remember when the stories were written and that the words weren't meant to be offensive.
P.G. Wodehouse was a comic genius.
A standard line from Jeeves at some point in the book (every book) is: I endeavour to give satisfaction, Sir. When Jeeves is asked about the weather, it isn’t ‘good’ or ‘sunny’ or the like but exceptionally clement, Sir.Apart from the extraordinary comic genius that P.G. Wodehouse possessed, what I noticed this time was the medium through which this was achieved – his exceptional gifts of language.
There were so many utterly original and funny metaphors and sentences that I fail to mention any specific ones.
Silly, delightful and funny through and through.
The first Wodehouse I read - and it made me an addict. In this one, Jeeves rescues Bertie from unintentional engagements, helps Bingo Little in affairs of the heart, beats all odds in the Great Sermon Handicap and gets rid of the troublesome twins Claude and Eustace.In his own words, Jeeves "endeavours to give satisfaction".
Stolen pearls, a village school fete, shady characters, a forceful Aunt Agatha, romantic escapades and schemes which flounder and flop.Meanwhile, Jeeves serenely steps in, attaining an aloof and unsympathetic air, and rescues Wooster from many a hilarious scrape.A novel full of sparkling dialogue and wit. I giggled my way through the pages and annoyed my family with quotes from the book and sudden bursts of laughter.Jeeves and his approved "pick-me-up" recipe worked like a dream!
Somewhere in this book Bertie Wooster says that "If you want shrinking reticence, don't go to Bingo." Well, you can't help it in this book, since most of it revolves around Bingo's "habit of falling in love with every second girl he sees." When it's not about Bingo, it's Claude and Eustace and a host of other crazies in Bertie Wooster's orbit, providing laugh out loud humor.
The perfect book for intermittently taking my mind off what's ailing me, it is truly, as Bingo Little says on p.
I will say that it's hard not to hear Stephen Fry as Jeeves in my head, but I don't really mind that so much.
"I'm going into the park to do pastoral dances," he tells Jeeves in a moment of particular enthusiasm, noting in the narration that the late April weather creates a "[k]ind of uplifted feeling": "I'm not much of a ladies' man, but on this particular morning it seemed to me that what I really wanted was some charming girl to buzz up and ask me to save her from assassins or something." Unfortunately for Bertie, the character who needs saving is not a charming girl, but a lovesick old school friend deficient in both common sense and tact.
In My Man Bertie was constantly rescuing his New York friends with the aid of Jeeves; here, Wodehouse simplifies the formula by sort of combining all the idiotic chumps who ever needed help from Bertie into a repeat offender by the name of Bingo Little.
My first time to wonder about this was when I read Kazuo Ishiguro's Remains of the Day which has this same situation of a butler and his two wealthy masters and so I was excited learning about Jeeves and Woostah in this well-loved series of Jeeves books by P.
The comparison between the two books end there because Remains of the Day is a well-loved drama while The Inimitable Jeeves is outright hilarious.These Jeeves books form part of the two sets of books that made Sir Pelham Grenville Wodehouse (1881-1975) popular in Britain during the 1920s.
The characters are so carefully and lovingly crafted, the ‘one liners’ so brilliantly funny and the utter dryness of Jeeves’s asides so glorious that any complaints seem a bit mean-spirited.
You know, “What else do you want, McCandless?”Wooster lunges from near tragedy to near tragedy and from fashion crime to fashion crime – only to be repeatedly saved by Jeeves with seemingly no effort.This morning I read something on the blurb of one of Wodehouse’s books that Evelyn Waugh said about him.

Another veritable treatise on literary humour.Got more evidence as to why Salman Rushdie,Douglas Adams, Terry Pratchet and many others look up to Wodehouse as an absolute master of English prose.
Bertie is the stereotypical British upper crust, living on inherited money, avoiding work at all costs, who thinks he’s brilliant, but really is dumber than a post, and who needs Jeeves to get him out of all sorts of bizarre scrapes.
So in typical Jeeves fashion, the butler just mentions to a jealous suitor that Bingo is not what he appears to be.
“I fear I may carelessly have disclosed Mr. Little’s (Bingo) identity to Mr. Butt (jealous suitor) .
Bingo continues to make a fool of himself, requiring the assistance of Bertie (for money) and Jeeves (for intelligence).
The Inimitable Jeeves is a fun light read of 18 short stories with a common thread.Our heroes are the simple and good at heart Bertie Wooster and his intelligent and supremely marvelous valet Jeeves.The stories concern Bingo's amours, for which, as a dutiful friend, Bertie lands himself in troubles at every turn.
Some of them are funny and some you feel sorry for Bertie.
But they come out alright all thanks to Jeeves.The ingenious schemes of Steggles including betting on sermons on length, children games and affairs of the heart are hilarious.
The chemistry between Wooster and Jeeves stands out.
I felt a little daft from not realising that earlier.)This is of course a short story collection featuring P.G. Wodehouse's classic, popular characters Bertie Wooster and his butler Jeeves (the title character).
It is those moments which feel like the best sort of payoff for the reader and in the rare moments where you forget that Jeeves is NOT supposed to be a seriously developed character written for authentic reasons, your mouth just drops in awe of him.Those moments, therefore, were fantastic and so worth the time put into the reading experience.The main reason, however, as to why I really enjoyed this book was this:The Fab Writing Style!The classic genre has nailed it on the head again.
(Brief review because I still have a lot of thumb pain.)Rather enjoyed this at times, but it got old after a while and I was SO ANNOYED with the majority of the characters.
*grits teeth at Bingo* However, the British humour was lovely for the most part, and I loved Bertie.
AND LONDON.
I looooved that most of the stories were set in London.
(view spoiler)[Use of the d-word probably five or six times, God's name in vain several times, and the a-word quite often.
Though I'm thinking that British people used to not consider it a curse word?
(hide spoiler)]Overall, enjoyable, but not something I would probably read again.3 stars
A couple of years later I noticed a copy of Wodehouse's Service With a Smile; it made me laugh a great deal, but the library had no other Blandings books and - knowing my hopeless completist tendencies in those days - I was reluctant to start buying such a prolific author.For the best part of twenty years, that was that.
(My former standby of Pratchett's Discworld finished; Tom Holt a beige imitation; Robert Rankin too silly; Sherlock Holmes a little depressing when fuzzy-minded; and going back to old children's books at such a time felt a little too much like giving up.)I remembered about Wodehouse and read several samples on Amazon, starting with that from Carry On, Jeeves which was fortuitously wonderful.
Red cummerbund, purple socks, bon vivant Bertie relinquishes a beloved garish accoutrement when valet Jeeves exercises his large brain to save Drone club members, such as master B, and pal Bingo Little, from trouble, especially inappropriate romantic attachments.
Aunt Agatha, on holiday in a French hotel, pushes Bertie on a chance-met girl without checking honesty credentials.
Finally Agatha orders the twins to South Africa, but they fall for the same actress.
Meanwhile the pretense that Bertie wrote happy-ever-afters for servant class girls, such as cooks, is smashed by Bingo's final fiancee.Try out excerpt from Most of PG Wodehouse found at my blog Free Books
One of the earlier Jeeves and Wooster books, "The Inimitable Jeeves" is a collection of interconnected short stories that don't completely stand on their own individually, but also don't form one long, intricate plot like "The Code of the Woosters" -- perhaps the best Jeeves and Wooster novel -- does so well. Nevertheless, it is a fun read, especially for someone who's already a Wodehouse fan. This just wouldn't be the place to start for a new Wodehouse reader, as he may fail to see why Wodehouse is so well-loved.
A well-to-do upper crust who stumbles through each day largely guide by that oh-so-reserved and deep GPG, Jeeves.Wooster's slapstick-like stumbling though life makes the flow of words and characterizations seem sublime.
If the art of being successful or British is to not let the other chap see you sweat, then the author acheives that with remakable ease.I did not expect deep thinking or mental challenges when picking up this book.
But there is a certain intellectual enjoyment, much like a well-written whodunit, in trying to guess what arcane plot twist is coming next and how Jeeves will save the day, in the end.
And the website Ask Jeeves plays on the valet's crafty intelligence in saving Bertie Wooster's hide repeatedly.
So, I was very excited to begin reading Wodehouse's Jeeves/Wooster series.
The Inimitable Jeeves is my first direct encounter with Wodehouse's work.The book is a collection of short, often madcap comedies that prove a couple of things - Bertie and his friends are idiots; Jeeves is brilliant.
I highly recommend spending some time with Bertie, Jeeves, Bingo, Aunt Agnes, and the entire gang.
The episodic nature of this book suits the slapstick humor of Jeeves and Wooster, I think, better than the straight story of The Code of the Woosters.
(So begins the most boring review of a Wodehouse novel ever, you think.) Anyway, I enjoyed the various Rosie M.
I need to come to terms with the fact that I am the sort of person who can't "really like" a light humor novel.
I'd love to be the type of carefree bird who loves these books, but I guess I'm doomed by constitution to prefer a novel with at least one tragic death.

This volume containing connected stories of the classic duo Jeeves and Wooster is quintessential Wodehouse. Bertie's school chum, Bingo Little, is a particular catalyst of the adventures and misadventures that require Jeeves to do his best brain work and solve problems that range from saving Bertie from unwanted engagements, raving cat-phobic psychiatrists, and Aunt Agatha.When life becomes too depressing, you can depend on Wodehouse to slip you into his placid world where tea is delivered as soon as you open you eyes in the morning and where you never have to worry about money to pay the bills.
What a man. This Jeeves is really fantastic. 😉 Everything time Wooster has his problems, Jeeves shows up and has the right ideas. 😉 Great man.
