https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59415.Terra_Nostra
The New World seems to offer to the characters the possibility of something alien to the tradition of Empire than is established in Europe, a tradition that has the Emperor Tiberius at one end and Philip II at the other trying to prevent change, to maintain orthodoxy (broadly envisioned) and by so doing maintaining power.Part of the challenge is overtly political and part through stories.
and then i get kinda bored.
and then i get bored again.
here's the deal: fuentes sets out to do no less than cover christian mythology and pre-cortesian mexican mythology -- to dramatize the birth and death of religions and civilizations.
but fuentes is more concerned with ideas, it seems, than writing a great book; he places symbolism, allegory, theme, and idea before drama -- and with a book of this nature, that's a bad road taken.
the best narrative fiction is that in which the great ideas are invisible, wriggling around inside the dramatic and the visceral and the real and the alive.
Fuentes'in edebi devi Terra Nostra, bitirdiğimde omuzlarımdan bileklerime kadar tüm kaslarımda hisse
This massive meditation on the Conquest and its effect on imaginations, moralities and all related matters pertaining to worlds both New and Old hit me like a cinder block. I recall going to Day's Espresso at the time, such a locale offered magnificent lattes, they made me fat. I didn't care. I loved this book. There is a well of intertextuality within which is nerdy yet effective.
But at any rate, wanted simply, in loo of a revieewooo, provide you with a non=representative passage which I'm sure many of you bookish folk will enjoy :::"You have named fifty stories, but you spoke of a thousand and one half days...""Fifty accounts are accounts beyond count, Filipe.
That half day is the infinite sum of the readers of this book, for as one finishes reading, one minute later another begins to read, and as that one finishes his reading, on minute later another begins it, and so on and so on, as in the ancient example of the hare and tortoise: Neither wins the race; so, too, the book si never without a reader, the book belongs to everyone..." "Then, wretch that I am, reality belongs to everyone, for only what is written is real." [pp604f]
It's certainly ambitious, insanely so, and takes some very interesting liberties with narrative space and time.
It's also refreshingly aggressive and non-subtle in it's attack on religion and power in general, and quite entertaining too, at least most of the time.
I have no problems in general with long books and/or these sort of narrative tactics, but Fuentes just doesn't pull it off quite convincingly.
I had wanted to read the book for a decade or so, snatching up the fat Penguin- an edition I'd never seen before- on my way back from the liquor store.
And that there is much suffering, lurid sex, evil dictators, and betrayal.
There's birth, too, more suffering, mad dwarves, and both the beginning and the end of time.
This is the sort of book that make a writer want to throw in the pen.
Just awesome, as the kids would say.
Exhausting, humbling, and just fucking awesome.

Epic and kaleidoscopic in scope, full of profound weirdness and stunning, hallucinatory prose.
Forget Garcia-Marquez, this is more Pynchonian in its lucid irrationality, a waking dream of Spain's conquest of Mexico that straddles multiple centuries, from Aztec creation myth to Millenial apocalypse.
Alternately frustrating and mind-blowing - I came close to quitting it more than once, particularly in the first book, "The Old World," but Fuentes kept dragging me back with his wild imagination and elegant prose.
The second book, "The New World," stands on its own as an epic re-imagining of Mexico's origins and conquest.
He didn’t want to leave Spain, and for the most part, neither left Escorial, the tomb-like palace he built for himself and, according to the story, didn’t put much faith in the new world, even though so much money came in it.
The Spanish rule sure doesn’t bode well, especially from a Mexican point of view.Published in 1975, Fuentes tackles magic realism, time travel and assorted tricks, like including himself and his colleagues in the story.
I read an old New York Times review that says if you are going to fail, fail big.
I wish I had the time to sit at it like an eager undergrad, newly acclimated to putting a highlighter to a weathered copy weighing down my backpack, extracting things-to-quote from its thicket, desecrating a weathered copy with my love and devotion, chuckling to myself openly and brazenly about "Fuentes", forlornly wishing there was that one someone with whom to share that one line I'd found that day, and if that person found the line as profound as I, we would be soulmates.
I am not that eager undergrad anymore, and I know the bonds of a good line are short-lived in the the actual terra nostra.
it's pretty long and about some sort of mystical apocalypse and tawdry sex and systems of government that doon't involving slaughtering everything (spoiler: you have to slaughter everything) all the cool refs from your favorite part of european history [prognathic inbreds screwing up ruling the wealthiest and most powerful empire at the time in order to cling to some dutch marshes].there's also some nice sentences, more than just that first sentence that's on the quotes page of this very website.
later on i found out that book is about sephiroth from final fantasy 7, pretty cool.
Lu après la lecture de « l’art du roman » de Kundera où il le pose comme un des romans du 20eme siècle avec les livres de Kafka et « Les somnambules » d’Hermann Broch.
Il est particulièrement question de l’Espagne au moment de la découverte du nouveau monde, du nouveau monde, et un peu de la fin du monde.
Mais c’est toutefois extrêmement touffu et difficilement résumable, avec une volonté de Fuentes d’offrir un roman-monde englobant un peu tout.
Mais si y a une chose qui m’a particulièrement plut, ce serait l’importance mise sur les archétypes, Don Juan, Don Quichotte, le Seigneur qui contribue en bonne partie à l’atemporalité de l'univers du livre.
Everyone in this book is insane and is trying to fuck, kill or mutilate someone, and its also about history repeating itself like all his other books
The main story seems to exist as stories within stories, as an encounter in the present day takes us back to the reign of the Spanish king Philip II (though I think we meet his similarly named father first, charmingly, both are called "El Senor"), carrying us through the son's attempts to build what eventually becomes the El Escorial even as he physically declines and all kinds of weird mystical things happen that may have to do with the New World and may have more to do with the fact that Fuentes ladles on great heaping doses of magical realism, which is just another way of him tapping you on the shoulder and whispering gently into your ear, "Just go with it".Paging through my volume for this, I also just realized that there's a extremely helpful character guide in the very beginning, which I suggest you avail yourself of.
This is an amazing book.
I read it nearly 20 years ago, and if I were sent to Radio 4's Desert Island this would be my choice of book.
It took me six months to read (and I'm a fast reader!)- I had to keep dipping in and out, as it is such a rich and complex text.
Part SF, part historical fiction, and with more than a touch of magical realism it is a book I will re-read at some point.
It is an absorbing, speculative and beautifully written doorstep of a book.
You know I only bought this book because I read the list of characters and couldn't make any sense of it. And I couldn't make any sense of where the book was going till about half way (and that's a lot of pages), although all the separate parts were completely fascinating. Then the bits gradually started to come together - and my head pretty much exploded with the brilliance of it all. Worth the wait, let me tell you.
Simply the most exciting book I've read since Under the Volcano, Terra Nostra seeks to unify the mythology and politics of 15th Century Spain and the New World in one meteor-like work! Amazing! It literally has to be read to be believed.
Almighty God, this is a brilliant monstrosity of a book! It's been a long time,but I remember this being a fabulous, magical, beast of a book. Carols Fuentes is a mythmaker supreme!
A masterpiece of a fiction. Impossible to summarize.
Like reading Shakespeare as your first English Language NovelTerra Nostra, written by Carlos Fuentes and almost a Spanish classic, is Metaphor rich, like existing in a living dream.
With the use of the pronoun ‘Our’ in Our Earth (the title) – Fuentes is speaking directly to and about the Hispanic world.In the opening sequence, a young man named Pollo falls into the River Seine and washes ashore on the beach of 16th Century Spain as a different character.
Red velvet and white plaster.
Well...I finished it, though not before it almost finished me. And to be honest, I'm not sure it was worth it. The thing is, this is a very long and difficult novel, and when I embark on such a thing, I kinda want more return on investment than I got here. Terra Nostra is easy to admire but hard to love; indeed, I'd say it's easily the least lovable novel I've read in recent memory. Impressive, yes, but I'm not going to let myself be overawed into giving it a better rating than I think it deserves.
I have no idea what happened.
In this version of history, it is one of these youths who discovers the New World and the entire middle section of the book (separated into The Old World, The New World, and The Next World) is his journey and immersion in the myths and religion of the Aztecs.Along the way we meet Don Quixote, Don Juan, view a literal transcript of the first page of Kafka’s The Metamorphosis written and stuffed into a bottle by this universe’s Cervantes analogue.
One scholarly character hypothesizes it’s impossible to become a full and integrated personality until you’ve lived several lives in several times and possible worlds.There’s a question that runs through the book: if someone could live life over again, would they change the actions they took, the decisions they made?
Increíble el primer animal que soñó con otro animal.O como diría yo, Increíble la persona que escrib
It merges time, space and person to reflect on the damage done to the New World and the impacts on society to the present.
The book is made of three parts ‘The Old World’ (mainly about Felipe’s youth); ‘The New World’ (mainly about the imagined discover of Mexico) and ‘The Next World’ (mainly about Felipe’s demise) and three quotes from the book sums it up ”those three books did I truly find the destiny of our history” –“is the honour of a monarch not a better restraint to passions than the ambition of a merchant” and “a transposition of the historic past into a future that will have no history”.
A la par, hace una reflexión sobre el hombre contemporáneo, el choque y la transformación de los mitos, los cambios a partir del siglo XX y el propio concepto de ficción, armando así una novela metaliteraria que se recrea y autodestruye.Detrás de la historia, Carlos Fuentes habla de relatos del pasado que tenemos en conjunto y nos determinan como individuos, de esa identidad colectiva donde la historia es sólo parte de sus formas.
About halfway through this book I started to get the feeling that after reading Terra Nostra I could be content never to read another book again, as if it were the culmination of my lifetime of reading.The absolutely gorgeous prose (could be the translator), is in the same vein as Nabokov and Pynchon, but not quite as complex.
I'd never felt more like I was there, in the book/story, than in Terra Nostra.
I was completely taken away from my own world when I was reading (time just seemed to vanish from the clock), also like Pynchon but even more so in this regard.Unfortunately, the book seems to fall apart over the last couple of hundred pages.
This is one of my favorite books of all time. I read it many years ago when I was younger as part of a college course and it has stayed with me. From what I remember, Margaret Sayer's Paden, the translator, wrote a very detailed article, "Reader's Guide to Terra Nostra", which will give you a lot of the background behind the story. I don't remember where the article was published. Also, as I recall, "Cervantes or the Critique of Reading", a series of essays by Fuentes, illuminates much of what happens in Terra Nostra.
Es una gran obra y rompe con los esquemas que he conocido hasta el momento. Contiene un lenguaje pesado y su trama es algo confusa, ciertamente no es un libro para leerse en algunos días. Aunque me tomo un mes leerlo, les juro que me costó bastante y le dedique una semana completa solo para leerlo y al final estaba exhausto. Está dividido en tres partes y preferí la segunda parte a las otras. Si se deciden a leerlo, espero no se les haga tan complicado.
