https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/71196.The_Short_Stories_of_Saki
Is there a writer mastering sarcasm as good as Saki? He is the CCTV of Edwardian era. Watching every detail of peculiar or ordinary characters to bind them into his story telling. The witty nature of his short stories is so enjoyable, I wish I was able to erasethem from my memory and read again and again.This edition is like wine, enjoy in small sips, a slow and unforgettable taste of literature.
Reading works by Hector Munro for a summer class and this guy has such creativity when it comes to naming his characters I find myself laughing out loud at his odd one-liners and catch phrases.
I think Saki was the type of man society women kept hovering around in the parlour, like his famous cat. His famous story about a talking cat really made me laugh, until the end, that is, which was too droll and catty, like many of his other short stories, done without purpose, just for a weak giggle.
One of my favorite writers!
Some of the best satire you're likely to find. A lot like Twain, but dealing with the foibles of his British countrymen.
Forgot how much I enjoy this author. 'Found him and Chekhov at Park City Library, Park City, Utah.
Many of his short stories are gems. They are sly, observant, unpredictable, and irreverent. His was a great observer of the English classes and their distinctions and foibles. He had a way of turning an ordinary situation into something clever and surprising. If you do not know Saki, get yourself to a bookstore or library forthwith and be enlightened, entertained, and enthralled.
After being picked up by Dad and being directed--his right hand on my head, turning it in to turn me as we walked along--to the parking lot, two men in suits came up to us besides our Hillman Husky, apologized and asked to see my book.
They were shop detectives or something like that.
Smugly producing that produced more apologies and their hasty retreat.As regards the book itself, get it, especially if you've got kids.
They'll love it because he so often writes about awful adults and the much cleverer children who are subjected to them.
I still love it.
It takes quite a good writer to make a book of short of stories that I'm willing to read straight through.
Scott Fitzgerald but with a twist in each story that takes them out of the city to contend with nature.
"Esme" the story of the women who capture a hyena in the woods who promptly devours a gypsy child was twisted and funny, but Tobermory was the best examining the idea that we come to resemble physically and in other manerisms, our pets.
This is fine if your pet is a good natured parrot...
A fun book of stories for all ages.
3.5* Read a little over half the book. Lots of 4* and 5* shorts in the 100 or so stories that I read. But got tired of the Brits aristocracy / class system themes. Most are have great twists and turns at the ends and only run 2-4 pages in length. Didn't feel like another 300 pages of the same...
Loved it.Roughly a contemporary of Oscar Wilde and writing on the same subject, (British aristocracy), Saki poignantly and satirically gives intimate flavor to that bygone, post-Victorian era.Not as ribald as Wilde, but every bit as funny.
"Sredni Vashtar," "The Story-Teller," "The Open Window," "The Music on the Hill." and "the lumber room", I will read the rest as soon as I find them
currently listening to his short stories on libra vox and I LOVE LOVE LOVE them! So imaginative and different and strange and loving!
3 1/2 stars
Great writing from a truly tragic character. If you like this, check out the  stuff for grownups  by Roald Dahl as well.
I love the snarky character Reginald; who knew Saki could be so entertaining!
I'm savoring every last story in this deliciously witty book. It may take me a decade to get through it, since each little story is so pithy and wonderful.
so... this is the first professionally recorded audiobook where, for me, the narrators really detracted from the writing.
Amusing. Subtle humor by a gifted writer. Worth the effort.
Untold riches of hilarious wit, droll malice, delectable irony, and even the occasional thrill of the macabre wait within. Don't waste another moment -- start reading.
