https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251964.The_Black_Lyon
Updated 3/1/2013 - While doing a re-read with my local book club I was anxious to see if this would stand the test of time.
I once again devoured the book and I’m glad to find it's still one of my all time favorites.Ranulf, The Black Lyon is a fierce, alpha warrior.
He doesn’t believe in love nor does he trust the fairer sex.
This story is filled with jealousy, angst and even though you must be able to suspend disbelief along with a fair amount of cheesiness, I still found this to be one of my all time favorites.
DNF @ 35%I know this is a crazy popular historical romance, but if I have to read one more page of this madness then I might end up going postal.
There is simply way too much bullshit miscommunication going on here for my liking, and it’s not the fun, pushing the story along and engaging the reader kind of miscommunication either, it’s the too stupid to live, makes me wanna tear my hair out kind.
The fact that I’ve only ever DNF’d five other books in my entire reading life tells you just how serious I am.
Hate to say that, but it's true, and I'm guessing that means that I should have read these books a very long time ago like most people.
If rape is a trigger for you, don't read this book!
I think that this use of a naive heroine goes sort of hand in hand with the age in which this was written, so I did expect it to a certain extent, but I've also read it much better done.
I can see why people consider this book/series a favorite, I think she's just one of those authors that I can't connect with.
There's nothing like your first romance. This one was mine, and I still love love love it best.
Loved it- it was my kind of thing, fast moving, strong characters, alpha male, passionate love, jealousy that tears them apart, a perfect match.
I love how Lyonene's mother plots to bring them together as she recognizes the strong character and honor of the Black Lyon hidden behind his gruff exterior as the perfect match for her wild and free daughter.
Their attraction is so strong that Lyonene throws herself at the Lyon and he fights her off to protect her virtue.
His jealousy is over the top and because of a set up by a jealous previous suitor of Lyonene he is brutal to her and wants no love from her.
MILD SPOILERSGosh, I did not like this book at all!
I found the heroine to come across like a giggling teenager of about 13 whilst the hero came across as an extremely abusive man and a complete jerk.
Not to mention two rape scenes, potential affair and multiple cases of abuse towards the heroine due to paranoia (the word jealousy is too subtle for the hero's behaviour).
I probably shouldn't call him a hero either he was more a villain, or at least had a multiple personality disorder.
I found myself so disgusted with scenes in this book I only read about 2/3rds of it.
Considered the first book in Jude Deveraux's Montgomery series but reads as a stand-alone. Set in Medieval times. Ranulf is a great warrior who meets the gentle and beautiful Lyonene and is betrothed very quickly. Beautiful beauty tames the beast story. An old favorite. One that has stood the test of time for me. Ranulf is an alpha jerk but I couldn't help but love him.
Sometimes or often when old Skool historical romances are retroactively converted to eFormat, the author do some "fixing" to the text to bring the book in line with 21st C sensibilities.
There was a part of the story where things got really stupid and I nearly stopped reading at 75%, but worked through it and finished the book.I guess I'd say the overriding theme of this love story is a lengthy process for the hero and heroine to learn to trust each other as a married couple as they hadn't known each other but a day or two before they became betrothed.
This book was written like it may have been one of the author's first books.
The hero Ranulf sucked in a major way.
This guy was not only insanely jealous, but he actually slaps the heroine.
I don't think I liked that.
He and Lyonene (our fair heroine) fall in love two days after meeting.
I don't think they are ever really happy until the last page.
Angst!The heroine Lyonene was too weak for my tastes.
Lyonene allowed some jealous chick to come into her house and drive her out of it!
No way!I have read other books by this author and enjoyed them.
Both were insanely jealous and insecure- and thought that got cumbersome at one point- still the tender love scenes made up for it.Possible pet peeves(view spoiler)[This was a bodice ripperThe first two times the sex is basically rapeShe's 17 and he's older (I DO NOT mind this in historicals)The hero slaps the heroine after he thinks she cheated on him and her lips are bloodiedThe heroine doubts the hero when a villain convinces her she's pregnant and leaves him (whiles she's pregnant too)Both have trust issuesWe later come to know Ranulf knows it was Lyonene all along in the tent- but it's hinted he might have cheated if it wasn't her??
Lyonene is the most stupid heroine history has ever created…Throughout the book I was pulling my hair like a mad-woman, I fear Beauty Salons will refuse to let me step in their salon let alone re-style my hair… I have read some great reviews about this book but I must say that I am terribly disappointed with this one. The only thing interesting in this book is the language and dialogues and nothing more. The story is CRAP. You have Lyonene who falls in love with Ranulf and are betrothed. Before
Then after the betrothal, Ranulf starts thinking of the betrayal of his ex-wife and thinks that all women are the same and thus, Lyonene is cheating on her.
When Lyonene was threaten by Giles, instead of confiding to Ranulf she agrees to give jewels to Giles (after knowing how her husband feels about her talking to another man, she decide that it’s best she give the jewels to Giles instead to telling Ranulf the truth)Then Ranulf beats her, but like a stupid skull she goes after him to persuade him of her love.
So far he raped her twice, one time while he was drunk and doesn't even recall it..
I don't know why I finished reading this novel.
Read the following quotations if you're still not convinced:He leaned his head back against the tub.
"Finish my shave, wench, and contradict me no more." page 159He lifted her from the floor with one arm as he quickly kissed her, nearly crushing her ribs.
"See you how to kiss women; let them know they kiss a man." page 166"I wonder how Darce fares with that new wife of his.""Did you think her pretty?""Beautiful.""More so than me?""By far.
page 182
Bu yorum aynı zamanda Romancekolikte yayınlanmıştır.English Review;Story ContainsJealous husband - Hero make me crazy about that. Yes he has a heart ache of his late wife but this man is paranoiac in this subject. Even when heroine is joking about other mens.Shrew, rescued women - Yes she rescued by hero. And she return his good intention with betrayed him. She made heroine uncomfortable and convince her Ranulf cheating her. Yes in this place I ate my nail for stress book caused me. And want it
Even when heroine is joking about other mens.Shrew, rescued women - Yes she rescued by hero.
But our heroine believe her deceptive word and fall her plan to abducted by one of Ranulf's men.
Ranulf çok kıskanç bir koca olduğu için gözü döner zaten bu sevdalıda deli bir adamdır sonuçta ölen o olur.
Bu olaydan sonra Ranulf baya bir süre kıza güvenmez kavga ederler hatta kızı evine yollamaya çalışır.
Bir kadından dans etmeyi öğrenip kocası için performans gösterir ama iş ileriye sürüklenince kocasının onunla onu başka kadın sanarak beraber olmasını midesi kaldırmaz.
Bu arada bir kadını kurtarmak için canından oluyor Ranulf.
Fanciful Medieval Bodice Ripper with Strong Heroine and Stronger HeroSet in what appears to be England in the 13th century (Edward is King of England, though his queen is “Eleanora” rather than Eleanor), this is the story of Lady Lyonene, a baron’s daughter, and Ranaulf de Warbrooke, 3rd Earl of Malvoisin, aka “the Black Lion.” When they meet at her family’s keep, Lyonene and Ranaulf are instantly attracted.
There isn’t much history in this tale, which often appears fanciful rather than historical romance but there is a clear medieval tone, which I very much enjoyed.
Ugh. This book.I know this was one of Jude Deveraux's first novels, if not the first.
There were times I had to set the book aside because of what the characters were saying or doing; for example, when Ranulf and Lyonene first meet, and they play in the woods.
Every time she says something, it's like, "Ranulf turned and gazed at her with a fierce gaze." (That wasn't taken directly from the book, I just made that up, but that's what it's like).
Every time she brings up the rape afterwards, he basically acts like, "Shut up.
I had to reread the novel in order to start the series anew and to be able to express my opinion properly.
For all their faults though, they were rather okay, I suppose, taking into consideration how old this book is and the type of the plot.
Thus if you have such issues or take offense, you'd better not pick this book, since at least half of it is full of bad mojo.
For its' length though, a slightly slower pace would've helped - or fewer pages for that matter - and better development instead of those time and emotion leaps it had.
All in all, it was a promising start for the series.
Umm was I the only one who had a problem with the fact that he hit her? Also I think she is sort of pathetic for trying to win him over when he is acting like a complete ass who let me say this one more time HIT HER.
At times it felt there were too many things/developments jammed into some parts of the book, leaving me unable to cope.
Still I loved both the hero and the heroine(can't remember their names right now, though I think hers is Lyonene or Lynone, or something like that), especially The Hero(even though he is dense at times, and there was this one scene that REALLY bothered me (view spoiler)[when he was mad and jealous and he attacked her.
Not sure how, though (hide spoiler)]) and found there were many great things about this book, and my overall impression was really positive, though I mainly complained here.
This was a re-read of a book I read a long time ago. I forgot how much angst is in this story. Lord have mercy. My heart was in a constant state of twisting and bleeding. There was also a little less steam than I remembered. I guess my more recent reads have just been a little steamier ;) Overall, a great story if you're looking for a historical featuring a strong warrior and a super strong bride who have to battle a lot of obstacles for happy hearts!
I am in a Jude Devaraux mood these past 2 weeks. I got hooked up on some of the more humorous books but I am making my way through this series. I love the Montgomery’s. This book is the beginning of the series and although I wanted to beat some sense into hero/heroine I found this book a delightful read. I am continuing with the series.
1.5 stars Don't know why I kept reading this.
I was new to the world of historical romance, my high school English teacher having loaned me her copy of Ashes in the Wind a year or so before.
It's why I have so many hardback copies of romance novels in my library) and we swapped books by the truckload.So I went through all the big names of the day: Johanna Lindsay, Rosemary Rogers, Bertrice Small, Kathleen Woodiwiss, Jude Deveraux.
(I understand it was the first romance novel read by our fearless leader, Sarah McLean.) I am well aware that I cannot give an objective review of this book because I have loved it for too long.
re-readI have no idea if it was written first, but the Black Lyon is the prequel to Jude Deveraux’s Montgomery series- in fact, it’s the tale of the origin of the clan.Written in a medieval setting, I’m guessing 1200’s because we’re talking vassals of English King Edward the 1st.
I have only read one other book by this author but have many more in my tbr, I'll have to move them up the reading list.I like books set in the medieval times, I love to see how two strangers marry then have to get to know and trust each other.
I also liked that at the begining of this book she gives the floor plan of the castle, it was nice to look at when reading what rooms they were in.I marked this book into my rape shelf, Ranulf (H) does say himself that he raped Lyonene (h) but I didn't think it was rape.

Loved it!
This book is full of drama and both of the main characters are freaking crazy! My freaking brain is fried from all of their drama but at the same time I enjoyed reading it!
I had recently seen a blog post where the Deveraux's Montgomery and Taggert books were discussed so I did some digging and found a list on AMZ that tells the Series Reading Order.
(I have to read a series in Order.
I fell hard for both Ranoulf and Lyonenne, Lucy, Brent, Dacre, the Black Guard and all the rest.
The story was wonderfully told, and even though there were times I wanted to smack the hero or shake the heroine, they always came back around and had me reading with tears in my eyes.
I hated the bad guys/gals in the book though and hated them hard.
Fanciful Medieval Bodice Ripper with Strong Heroine and Stronger HeroSet in what appears to be England in the 13th century (Edward is King of England, though his queen is “Eleanora” rather than Eleanor), this is the story of Lady Lyonene, a baron’s daughter, and Ranaulf de Warbrooke, 3rd Earl of Malvoisin, aka “the Black Lion.” When they meet at her family’s keep, Lyonene and Ranaulf are instantly attracted.
There isn’t much history in this tale, which often appears fanciful rather than historical romance but there is a clear medieval tone, which I very much enjoyed.
