https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23754479-purity
franzen is too deliberate an author to not be trying to provoke his critics and sustain their complaints with this, right??i'm not the usually the one to complain about "how women are portrayed in novels"; that's not top of the list of what i read books for.
i don't even feel like writing any more about this - franzen isn't a bad writer at all and he managed to flesh out an impressive number of sprawling storylines here and there's a lot that is admirable, but the overall reading experience was so off-putting for me; not just the unpleasantness, but also how frequently boring and bloated the book was.
There is a brilliant novel buried in the some indulgent furious prose that is full of contempt for the reader. I really enjoyed the brilliant novel and wished the indulgence has been excised. Full review on NPR next week.
Up till now, I’ve defended Jonathan Franzen. That’s despite his skirmishes with Oprah and Jennifer Weiner, his curmudgeonly comments about social media and his bizarre statement about adopting an Iraqi war orphan to understand millennials.The author of The Corrections and  Freedom  can write. Who cares what people who don’t read his books – and only troll Twitter – think?But now I’m reconsidering.His new novel is ponderous, bloated and tin-eared. Something’s wrong when a book only gets going at
Who cares what people who don’t read his books – and only troll Twitter – think?But now I’m reconsidering.His new no­vel is ponderous, bloated and tin-eared.
Something’s wrong when a book only gets going at the 400-page mark.There are four main characters.
Leila Helou is a Lebanese-American journalist who’s married to an aging novelist and soon begins work for a privately funded online news publication.
And Tom Aberant owns that publication and is Leila’s lover.Slowly, oh so slowly, the connections between these people start to appear, but only after endless exposition that doesn’t further the plot and adds only slightly to character.
However, this book may not be for everyone: It's long, with complex - multi-layered characters -plots and subplots - and many 'issue-themes'.
A little about the story itself: Purity Tyler, College Grad, ...( she goes by 'Pip'), is in her 20's, living in Oakland, California (where I was born), She owes the government $130,000 from student loans.
1) her crazy living conditions and housemates in Oakland...and her relationship with each of them....(you'll have to read the book to dive in deeper to this messy situation) And2) Pit has a mother ( no father - no other siblings- not even a pet - or TV).
There were secrets in this story - where I felt would benefit the characters 'to' exchange.
I continually felt like I was reading an inferior version of Freedom and The Corrections (both novels I loved).
If there’s a subtext in this novel it might be decoded as “everyone needs a dad because mothers are a bloody nightmare.” You could say Purity is essentially about squabbling.
(The rather heavy handed parallels with Great Expectations were like a joke I didn’t get.)  The second voice is Andreas Wolf.
The novel stands or falls on Wolf as he is central to the bigger picture Franzen is presenting.
I’m sure Franzen will write another great novel but this certainly isn’t it.
She apparently wants older men and money to pay off her $130,000 of student loan debt.
There is some talk about the debate on privacy and security and the future of technology, but also multiple scenes where older men have solemn determined sex with younger women and have murderous impulses but that's tolerated for them somehow, maybe from some crude biological essentialism.
All the women hate each other.Franzen's talent at creating arguments and dysfunctional psychology, but the way his unpleasant women are written fits neatly into every stereotype of women - this is no Great American Author unfolding the delicate strands of human psychology, this is every schlub at the dive bar who bloviates about his 'shrew' ex-wife.
Lots of leafy prose to appreciate, but moving forward was kinda a pain in the ass.His debut novel The Twenty-Seventh City had more narrative thrust, but the plot was a bit labyrinthine.
Franzen seems über self-aware and seems to enjoy using Pip's mom to poke a bit of fun at the extreme end of the cartoonish, obnoxious, west coast liberal...
It wasn't obnoxious enough to distract me for long from the novel, and look I'm a pretty liberal guy myself, but sometimes Franzen's approach to capitalism, feminism, privacy, animal rights and global warming seems a bit clumsy.
I liked Franzen's book.
Franzen in Purgatory?”After all, as Aquinas wrote, the least degree of pain in Purgatory ‘surpasses the greatest pain that one can endure in this world.’”  ----Stephen Greenblatt in Hamlet in PurgatoryWriting a novel is an intimate act.
I came away thinking Franzen is in a world of hurt.
Something is rotten indeed in Franzen’s world.Franzen is completely intentional and self-aware about his “stale, obese, exhausting…bloated and immensely disagreeable” work.
"The play’s the thing, wherein I’ll capture the conscience of the king." (…III.i.) How quickly Franzen became disillusioned.
Who else has ever worn the mantle of “The Great American Novelist” so uncomfortably, so unable to relish his fame or renounce it?
Even as we’ve largely expelled literary writers from the pantheon of celebrity, Franzen, who never shot a rhino in Africa or even stabbed his wife at a party, remains stuck in the spotlight, wincing through those black-framed glasses.But if there’s an autobiographical impulse behind his new novel, “Purity,” which will be released Sept.
As he did in “The Corrections” (2001) and “Freedom” (2010), Franzen once again begins with a family, but his ravenous intellect strides the globe, drawing us through a collection of cleverly connected plots infused with.
Not just because of the name but because both Pips have mysterious unknown fathers who the Pips are seeking, and, readers suspect, when the truth is revealed it will probably involve shedloads of money and tears before bedtime.PIP’S SEX LIFEThe novel is intimately concerned with Pip’s sex life.
She gets involved with a thing called the Sunlight Project and its “charismatic” (that word is used) leader Andreas Wolf, a man old enough to be her father.
Probably as old as your father.
Apparently, I looked really intense while reading this, which seems appropriate for one of Franzen’s Big Serious Books, but this one felt lighter than The Corrections and Freedom, and funnier somehow, even though it has all the things I expect from Franzen: the calling out of our emptiness, technology and what it’s done to us, the intense love-hate-needy relationship thing, the girlfriends and wives and mothers are all evil thing, the all fathers are selfish assholes thing, and so on.
It was entertaining but a little awkward, then by chapter two it hit its stride and I was engrossed and enjoying it quite a lot.
Tom can meet the human Grumpy Cat this year!” I know I’m not the only one to make that joke, but all I got from my coworkers were blank stares of incomprehension.I texted my husband: No one in this office gets my Jonathan Franzen jokes.He texted back: I bet Jonathan Franzen would write an angry essay about that.Guys, this is why I married him.
After the critical success of Franzen's last two novels – both of which I really enjoyed – the release of his first book in five years was always going to be a big deal.
Interesting...The criticism this book received put me in mind of the reaction to Tom Wolfe’s  I Am Charlotte Simmons, also released after two highly successful novels.
So I was undaunted and grabbed an audio copy of Purity as soon as I could and settled in for the ride.It’s a big story, but the main thread tracks a young woman, Purity Tyler, in her quest to find a father her mother steadfastly refuses to identify to her.
And what if she liked him anyway?” Depravity with impunity: in reducing men to this dull fantasy and women to its antagonists, Franzen cheapens the character-rich achievements of the authors — not only Dickens, but also Tolstoy, Dostoevsky, O’Connor — he claims to emulate.In a 2010 New York Times review of Freedom, Sam Tenenhaus asked rhetorically, “Assaultive sex reverberates through Freedom, and why not?” Why not, indeed?
I'd have to say  Purity, Jonathan Franzen's eagerly-awaited fifth novel (in a roughly 25-year writing career) doesn't disappoint his fans (or certainly not  this one), but that is not to say it's a smooth ride navigating this monster.
As random and divergent as the plot's direction seemed headed at times,, it never strayed too far from Franzen's bailiwick and specialty: the dysfunctional relationship..
the troubled relationships in all the novels I've read of his thus far, but none of them more poignantly, corrosively examined than those in  Purity.I can totally understand how some would have an opposite viewpoint than I do.
(It's laughable to critique this as the author's "contempt for readers," per the NPR review, or, better yet, "self-indulgent nonsense." Dark-casted and consistently intelligent thoroughness isn't contempt for a reader.) Time seems to pass as sections read days ago take on a temporal sheen.
I think what maybe holds Franzen back a bit is the sense that he's in too much control, lacks a hole in the head to let the light in, distrusts intuition and the natural looseness of life -- there's no real serious spiritual side to his stuff, usually the mark of the highest order of writers.
Να λοιπον που τελειωσα το πρωτο μου βιβλιο τουΦρανζεν.οπωσδηποτε ενα βιβλιο που δεν μπορουσα να διαβ
I suspect many women who read the book will start the first section and feel the same squeamishness I did knowing that Franzen is writing about an attractive and damaged young woman.
(And Pip is that classic example of a young female character who doesn't actually seem to have much of a personality besides her backstory and who people are continually drawn toward for reasons no one can know.) But I like books with unlikable characters, I don't think Franzen should get a bad rap for it when we often praise women for writing books with unlikable characters.
Then halfway through, it finally hit me: Franzen was clearly hugely inspired by Gillian Flynn's Gone Girl.
With its intense, battle-of-the-sexes storyline and a few suspense-thriller twists, this novel should/could cross over a bit in appeal to Flynn's fans who stick with it.I think it's going to be a huge hit and deserves to be.
And the novel also shows him dealing with his fame/infamy in a constructive, playful way, for example articulating the problems of the internet/social media with wit and eloquence but then putting it in the mind of a deeply deranged character.
And even when I resisted the novel (which was rarely), I was enjoying it.
Sadly this novel and its full-chestedly tepid prose fucking sucks.
There are families, there are fucked-up families and there are fucked-up Franzen families - and boy, does he excel himself here.I may have read this in a flu-induced delirium but I thought his equating the internet machine with the totalitarian state of the GDR was just inspired.
Intelligent people and outliers with rebellious natures are likely to act out their subversion in some way.Andreas Wolf, a brilliant individual and the son of privileged communist parents, struggles with a duality that never ceases, provoked by the Communist rule and his mother's rule at home.
Every character plays the Purity card in one way or another, but it is the Blemish one that keeps making them all so human.Although the themes are what make the story so tantalizing, Franzen also creates a combination domestic drama and thriller.
My favorite part, though, is “le1o9n8a0rd”: the longest section and the only one in the first person, it’s Tom’s memoir of his ex-wife, Anabel.As per usual with Franzen, the novel repeats the title phrase and variations thereof as often as possible, with multiple meanings teased out: it’s a main character’s name, but also the virtue (“She was horribly poor but her sheets were clean; she was rich in cleanliness”; “nougat cores of innocence”), a state of totality (“purely”), and so on.
Names in general are interesting to trace, like Tom Aberant (= Aberrant?) and the close echoes of Andreas, Annagret and Anabel.
Can't think of much to say about a book that's been been dissected so widely and in so much detail, but feel obligated to explain something about why I liked it, so: I didn't love The Corrections, and after it I had little desire to read anything else by Franzen.
Instead, I found the unfurling story ever-more mesmerising, the characters unforgettable, and in the end I was surprised by how much I had loved the experience of reading it.(And no, this wasn't the exact edition I read, but I love this cover and I don't like the UK one, so I'm using it anyway.)
Che simpatia, però, uno che va a comprare IL perché sente di essere classe dirigente contemporanea e del futuro.Classe Dirigente Contemporanea e del Futuro (di seguito CDCF) - "Mi dia IL" (con piglio da classe dirigente contemporanea e del futuro).Giornalaio (di seguito G) - "Il cosa?" (con piglio da palle girate che è là dalle sette del mattino e classe dirigente non lo sarà mai, né ora né nel futuro)CDCF - "IL!" (spazientito, la classe dirigente non ha tempo da perdere)G - "Il?" (altrettanto spazientito, dietro c'è la fila, la vecchina che vuole Il mio Papa; l'adolescente brufoloso che aspetta l'ultimo numero di Metal Blood Hard Hammer e altre cose dure e pure a casaccio; il nostalgico che vuole il calendario con il duce, e siamo ad agosto; il pensionato rincoglionito che cerca il 3676° fascicolo di Costruisci il tuo galeone, c'è il remo in omaggio)CDCF - "IL!" (insiste, ha fretta, deve vedere se il Dow Jones sta salendo, trasandarsi la barba incolta, cercare su internet una bici vintage, scroccare 50 euro a papà)G - "Il?
This is actually a three and a half rating.
A big fan, actually.
This said I think he tried to do something slightly different with Purity than in his previous novels,and it didn't quite work out as smoothly for me.
He worked so hard on this complicated plot, that I feel he got lost on the way and had to trace his own steps backwards in order to make it work.
Too much stuff cramped together in order to make loose ends meet, make Purity slightly contrived.
You'll know what I mean when you come across it.
I thought both The Corrections and Freedom were terrific books and Franzen a world class author.
I still find him a fabulous writer but, really, what is Purity all about?
I have no idea what the point of the book was.
I am not saying there should always be a clear point in a book, but this was getting really tedious.
I even don't get why one of the main characters had to be a East-German, as his story might as well have occured somewhere else.
Well, might have made the man more mysterious and cosmopolitan, I assume.
misogynistic, particularly in contrast to the character of her quasi-anorexic friend Anabel, and the uncontrollable attraction that the current narrator, Tom (who seems to be a clear Franzen stand-in, baby face and all) has to "the thinness of her upper arms." Pip, the main character, is described physically in broad strokes, but early on in the book we are reassured, by an ostensibly upsetting, but clearly important to include, text message from a guy she's just made out with, that she has a "nice face, fantastic body." The book is populated by women who are either fantastically gorgeous (Annagret, Anabel, all the interns), specifically unattractive to the narrator(s) (Moosewoody Lucy, Tom's mother with her steroid-inflated face), or, like Pip and Leila, not overtly gorgeous but, no worries, actually super attractive once you look closely.
Franzen, "Purity"In reading novels, I think I can successfully put aside my contempt for an author.
I saw the juxtaposition of Purity, Pip's birth name, from her youth and in her search for her unknown father, against the impurities of a life looked at from the rearview-mirror by the four other main characters, all in their fifties, who have suffered broken relationships and shattered personal myths.
Because the only way to avoid irreparably damaging our Purity is by abstinence from others, shouldn't we just accept impurity as inevitable and figure out how to deal with it, for isn't a life without relationships hardly one worth living?
Реална оценка 4.5 най-вече заради образа на Анабел, чиято екстремна счупеност ми остана леко неубедителна до края.Нямам идея дали скоро ще бъда в състояние да напиша две смислени изречения за книгата...
