https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/740112.Six_Thousand_Years_of_Bread
But it's the history of the world (literally) told through the lens of bread.
The author describes its invention, production, religious and nutritional significance, and then spreads out to show how it sparked and shaped agriculture, engineering, wars, policy, commerce, and still dictates the balance of world power.
History is only recently becoming a favorite subject of mine.
But the way this book links economics, civics, population shifts, and the everyman's daily life had me wishing this book was used in my highschool history classes.
The fact that the author wrote this book on the eve of WWII gives many of his hypotheses chilling resonance.
Although, it’s hard to take seriously as a book of history at first when the opening section reads like a tale from Just So Stories, as the hypothetical family of first humans discover agricultural, with everyone playing their roles along antiquated gender lines.The book makes a good argument that grains and breads were the founding cornerstone of many of the world’s religions.
Jacob makes a good case that the Egyptian and Abrahamic religions are obsessed with wheat, bread and yeast, both literally and metaphorically.
Therefore, he repeats two charges against Jews that any Jew who knew their religion and also knew about Christianity, would never make.The first is that he claims that the Jews wanted Jesus dead because he contradicted Judaism.
I know the Gospels claim that the Sanhedrin met to condemn Jesus to death on Passover.
The Catholic Church itself proclaimed about half a century ago that the Jews were not responsible for Jesus' death.These facts don't lessen the main point of Jacobs' book: that religions through the ages have made bread the focus of their rituals, up to the practice of modern Christian communion.
trabalho apenas minado por circunstâncias bélicas (segunda guerra do mundo) e pela medíocridade dos tempos modernos - qualquer livro que caminhe com a história pela trela, torna-se quase insuportável à medida que se aproxima deste presente em que tu e eu existimos.o senhor Jacob também se perde um pouco, inevitavelmente, na tarefa descomunal em que se meteu - mas isto funciona mais como testemunha da enormidade da tarefa do que como crítica negativa.verdade seja dita, o senhor Jacob tem um dom para transportar pessoas no tempo e enrolar as coisas em magia:o templo de deméter.tribos nómadas que ceifam o pecaminoso fruto sedentário com culpa, de espada em riste.fogos de santo antónio (ergotismo)!as descrições dos padeiros larápios e dos moleiros mafarriquenhos.a chegada das monstruosas máquinas e o consequente estupro das planícies.o gangrenar dos tentáculos bélicos devido às infecções da fome..um livro belo e inteligente.
A Western Civ class from the perspective of bread. (Not anthropomorphized, talking bread, but a bread centered historical narrative by a Jewish emigre to New York city during WWII) Idiosyncratic. Not sure I trust his archaeology/anthropology--just a gut feeling. But interesting. It's one of those books I got to about 70 pages from the end and then was just like, eh, I'm done.
Really like 3.5. Can be very dry at times but overall decent read.
A history of the (mostly Western) world, told through the lens of bread, grains, and agriculture. I was hoping for more of a history of bread. Overall, a bit dense and dry, but still interesting. I could have done without the roughly 50 pages on the Christian interpretation of bread as the actual body of Jesus versus just a metaphor.
It's interesting to learn how much religious significance has been given to bread in all religions, and i like how when he speaks of the religions he does so in a matter-of-fact way that does not denigrate any one religion, nor does it exalt one religion.
It makes sense when you consider that it was first published in 1944, but I would love for some historian to write a part II to this book that picks up where he leaves off.
But even more, I would like to get this author's perspective on the organic farming phenomenon and all of the non-bread or non-food uses of corn these days (sweetener and fuel).
The subtitle of this book is "Its Holy and Unholy History." And indeed, it turns out that bread plays a critical role in the story of many religions, not the least of which is Christianity.
It may surprise people to learn how much blood was shed over bread.
Nevertheless, as we move into a future that promises shortages of water, timber, oil, and arable land, it behooves us to understand how elemental needs can transform the mundane into the essential and drive people into a frenzy of killing.
Most intriguing to me was Jacobs' exploration of the cultural and religious implications of the choices people have made: which grain to use for different purposes; the implications of leavened bread as opposed to flatbread; the significance of nomadic versus settled lifestyles; the social status accorded to bakers in different societies; the symbolism attached to the breaking of bread.
The critical importance of grain production in the ascendancy of Egypt is well known, but Jacobs takes this economic argument much further, exploring the impact of grain upon both the ancient world and modern societies.
It suffers a bit from the lack of access to research resources, and harkens back to 19th century histories of domestic science.
But still, a valuable piece full of nuggest of information, despite the datedness of its opinions and the near-century of research that has come since then...
(The praise of commercial bread as more sanitary and also less work for everyone will tweak the nose of the home bread making enthusiast!)I read it for its remarks on medieval and pre-1650 breadmaking, but there are more topical sources out now.
Still, a read through this text is probably de regieur for the serious student of food history.
A history book that happens to be written in a time I'd consider to be a part of history. So for those interested in that sort of thing, there is twofold value to this book: a comprehensive discussion of the historical, religious, anthropological and societal importance of bread but also a peak into how a Victorian mind interprets things out of the past. I admit, reading the world "Mohammedan" used earnestly was a bit of a mind-blower.
A really great read. It's written in a sort of 19th century literary-historical style, but addresses the role of bread up to and including World War II. The last two paragraphs are really harrowing and show why the author would be so obsessed with bread as to write such a thorough, lyrical history of its role in human life and history. It's not a perfect book, but I would give this 4.5 stars.
Reading this book took a while, never expected it would be so intense. This was like taking a university history course. It is so detailer, the author said he used 40,00o sources! And to think he went on to write something like 40 other books, its mind boggling how some people can achieve so much in a life time.
Reading this book took a while, never expected it would be so intense. This was like taking a university history course. It is so detailer, the author said he used 40,00o sources! And to think he went on to write something like 40 other books, it´s mind boggling how some people can achieve so much in a life time.
My brother bought this for me and I feel a gauntlet has been thrown. I WILL read it. But you should know (when reading any non fiction review by me) that I do not really read much non fiction and never is it the only book I am reading. In other words, my thoughts on this book will come piecemeal, over a large span of time!
Written in German in 1944 by an escaped Jewish scholar, the first half jumped around a little, which made it a little difficult to read. It was however really interesting, covering the role of bread in society, religion, war, and science.
I started this in Jan 06, and then gave up during jury duty the following month. I'd like to start over soon.
Not a great cohesive whole... but so many awesome little tidbits. Easily worth a read.
very old school writing from an old world renaissance guy who quotes plutarch and ibsen at the drop of a hat.very few people are that well read nowadays
food & cooking
Six Thousand Years of Bread -- a history of the world that follows the triumphs and tragedies of the human experience in field and kitchen.
Makes the reader think about how a simple staple food changed the world
This book was a delight. I read it slowly to prolong the enjoyment. Politics, economics, warfare, religion, all vastly influenced by bread.
A definitive history of wheat & bread from ancient Egypt to modern America. Excellent history.
