https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13837.Lioness_Rampant
The first half of this book was a bit of struggle for me, but honestly once the adventure for the jewel was over, the story picks up a bit.I didn't like how Alanna's brother Thom was practically non-existent throughout the entire series, and has a small (or rather large) part in this book and.
The author made it seem like just because they were twins, they knew everything about each other and were each other's other half, but really they had only sent a few letters to each other throughout their lives and never even visited each other.
Then, once Alanna gets the jewel, she goes back to the capital city and lives at court for a while, where we have two intersecting plotlines of George Cooper trying to hold onto his role as King of the Thieves and Prince Jonathan trying to uncover whatever plot the only-mostly-dead Duke Roger is cooking up.That's a lot of plot to cram into 300 pages, and both storylines have to fight for space, and both suffer for it.
I really, really wish this last book had been split into two books: the first one could be all about the quest for the Dominion Jewel and the people Alanna meets on said quest, and the next and final book would be about her time at court, the struggle with Duke Roger, and the conclusion to the Dominion Jewel plotline.
Most of the time when I read action scenes in books I have no idea what the fuck happened or the author takes a cop out and writes something like "and then everything happened at once" and then skips to the aftermath but in these I always had a vivid mental pic of everything that went down and it was rad.
The last few action sequences were especially amazing and I wasn't expecting that.I kind of wish that the last two books of this series had been cut down into one, because I feel like there was a lot of filler that I could've done without.
There's a real choppiness between the first and second half the book, and while (view spoiler)[the notion of Roger back from the dead provides a chilling villain (and a necessary one, I think, since it allows Alanna to face how far she's grown in a way a new villain wouldn't), there's a lot of unforgivable vagueness around why Thom thought Roger--Roger, of all people!--would be a good target for practicing necromancy and around just what Roger is trying to accomplish.
And I'd like to dock half a star on this for the needless murder of a cat.SIGH.Maybe high fantasy isn't really my thing.
Maybe I needed something more in-depth than a middle-grade series could provide.
And don't try to tell me that this book isn't middle grade, because it's not written above maybe a fifth grade level.)I just couldn't get behind this.
Of course Alanna would be able to pass as a boy with no problems.
Of course they'll defeat the whatever it was in the first book.
OF COURSE Jon isn't offended that she's been masquerading as a boy and basically abusing his trust.
I have to admit I amazed that some how in my adolesence of female oriented fantasy reading I never picked up the Alanna Quartet.
The series is most definately unique in the world of fantasy directed to girls;the sex is frank, the main character has the unique attributes of red hair and violet eyes but is at one point described as short and stocky, she works to callous her hands, and has chosen the road that will most definatly at the end of her life leave her with a great deal of physical scars.
It's plain to see why the Alanna books created so many die-hard Pierce fans.This could have easily been broken into two books, but I'm glad it wasn't, after the weird cuts between books the series made earlier.
While the first was fun, I liked the second half better.
I love Corus and things are way less interesting when George isn't around.But (view spoiler)[THE CAT.
WHY DID THEY HAVE TO KILL THE KITTY.
I can deal with the other two major character deaths way better than I can deal with the cat's, and I KNOW he's technically immortal!
Because MOAR KITTY.
[3.5 Stars] I don't think I enjoyed this one quite as much as the last. It was wonderful read, but there is something about it that I just didn't fall in love with and I can't quite put my finger on why. All in all, however, this is a fantastic series though it could use a little more depth.
Think about the scholar who tells them about the Dominion Jewel, about how it works for those who are rulers and conquerors by nature, which is why it's often used best by a commoner.
Alanna tells Liam, when he asks her if she's the best in Tortall, that she doesn't know, because she only fought knights.
This book does so much quiet legwork to persuade me that Jon and Thayet will make a great couple.Stuff to ponder: the current plot that centers around Roger seems to have been started by Delia of Eldorne.
I can usually tell how much time passes while I read, not here, not with this volume.
Things progress quickly from here a series of meetings, attempted assassinations and of course a meeting with our lovely, somewhat helpful and terrifyingly vociferous Goddess.More Tortall lore gets expounded upon(which is great).
Then, when all that is done, about halfway through at the end of more great fighting, the "Silent War"(my own name for it) recommences.
The end, while not what I would call unique was not one that you could guess with even 50% accuracy(I am talking about the whole sequence here not the overall outcome).Now that all my praise is out of the way, here is my one gripe with LR.
Alanna was a pretty great outlet for that.Things I liked that I missed the first time around:-Sex positivism.
I work out more than I did back then, and I love the feelings Pierce describes.Things I didn't like as much the second time around:-The writing was a bit less engaging than I remember, but it's still awesome.
There are a few too many "the amethyst-eyed girl looked at the blue-eyed boy" things, and several abrupt perspective changes.-Everybody just seems to be okay with a talking cat.
I mean, okay.-Duke Roger wasn't as engaging a villain as I remembered him to be.Things I still liked:-Aw George.
-Aw Faithful.-I will always love that Alanna's such a badass.
Tamora Pierce was the DEFINING author of my childhood. I loved fantasy, and she introduced me to fantasy with heroines who take charge of their own lives. I learned more from her about feminine strength than almost any other author (save, perhaps, Anne McCaffrey). This series is a must-read for growing girls and grown women everywhere!
A decent (though slightly rushed) conclusion to a series I should’ve finished a while ago. I’m content.
[first read: 6 January 2008]Alanna gathers her own band of merry wo/men as she continues her adventures outside of Tortall.
The myths and legends of Tortall and its world are fascinating!As many of you have stated, I was not impressed with the handling of the Thom plot-line.
(I will admit that I found a certain joy in seeing Alanna shrug off Roger's slights and Thom's meddling, as well as the explanation as to why she was able to do so.
I like that George has power and strength, but he never utilizes that power to try and force Alanna into doing anything she doesn't want to do.
(Not so sure if conservatives would be so happy if they found out their daughters were reading this series ;p) Although simplified I was intrigued by the fact that the relationships were more realistic, or at least touched upon common relationship themes:Boy #1: High-school sweetheart (or in this case knight-in-training sweetheart) whom you still love but whom you are not going to marry because you've grown into different people and your lifestyles aren't compatibleBoy #2: The guy you love who makes you laugh and has always accepted you for who you are.
There really isn't much more I can say about this series.
I honestly think that every child (not just girls) should just be issued it at birth.
Alanna is such a great, powerful, honest, stubborn, determined hero.
I love how this series ended.
Even though Alanna is so tough and nearly invincible, I could so easily see her humanity.
She struggles to "have it all" which is something that women young and old, mundane and heroic also struggle with constantly.
We want to travel and have adventures and make discoveries and we also want to be mothers and live a settled life.
Alanna is such a paragon of womanhood.
The final book in the Song of the Lioness Quartet is also the saddest. The love story is fantastic, for it is the romance of attraction (but not cohesion) that most of us have had at some point in our lives. To suffer the consequences of breaking up, not for lack of love but for lack of compatibility ,is a marker of emotional growth. In this final book, Alanna is fully an adult and as such facing war means not glory but loss, betrayal, and absolution. It is through loss that Alanna finally finds peace with herself.
Epic.
I can't believe this series is already over!! God I loved it so much. So in this book we have the addition of the character Liam, who is a Shang warrior. I loved how tough he was and the effect he and Alanna had on each other. I think they learned a lot from each other and not just about fighting. I was really annoyed with Thom in this book and how he let his pride and arrogance get him in deep shit. I liked how this book wrapped up, but I'm sad to see Alanna's adventures end.
I like where he and Alanna end up in this book.Liam, le sigh.
(view spoiler)[I do enjoy how Alanna defeats Roger, in the end.
I feel like it might be.) Either way, I think George/Alanna has been bumped to the top of my list for "Best Tamora Pierce romance" (not that there is a lot of competition).
And given that he brings Roger back from the dead, I feel like everyone's reactions to him are disproportionate.
I just, feel like at the very least Alanna needed to yell at him for it.
(hide spoiler)]Original Review(view spoiler)[I forgot how MUCH happens in this book!
For all that she has three love interests, it never feels like TOO many.I kind of wish a little more time had been spent on her and George's relationship in this book?
The very first time I read the books, I was rooting for Jon. After that, I was always glad she didn't end with Jon, but in re-reading this, I think I can see how my younger self didn't quite get the George thing.
که من و ثنا هر دو همزمان می خواندیم و هی دعوایمان می شد و منتظر می ماندیم که دیگری کتاب را زمین بگذارد تا خودمان شروع به خواندن کنیم!و بعد از الان که ساعت دو و نیم شب است و کتاب تمام شده است ...ساده بگویم، که خیلی دوستش داشتم..
ولی اینکه اییینهمه اتفاق رو در چند صفحه آخر جا داده بود..
خب یکم ناراحت شدم :)) باید طولانی تر می بود...و...(view spoiler)[و واقعاً قلبم بخاطر لیام به درد اومده و می خوام های های گریه کنم.
برای اینکه یک مجموعه که روزهایی را همراهش گذراندم تمام شده، و به خاطر لیام، و به خاطر هیجانات احمقانه ام...
چی شد که امین مرد؟ واقعاً توضیحی نداااااد.
Wow. What a way to end. I love reading and growing older with characters. This is one of those series where you're left with a chunk of your heart missing.
Alanna is chasing down the Dominion Jewel in the far eastern realm of the world of Tortall with Coram in tow.
She meets a Shang master name Liam and as a tumultous but shortlived romance with him.
I've always thought it would be really interesting to see Pierce explore the Shang in a quartet.
Pierce brings Alanna's third-person narrative to a close in this last book; but if you're wanting more, don't worry.
Alanna shows up in The Immortals and then is mentioned in Protector of the Small as Kel follows her footsteps (without hiding her gender).
4.5 starsRreview can be found at FantasyLiterature.com.
1988? I can't believe this was published that long ago. It's not just Alanna's courage, her fighting abilities, and her noble heart, but this story that supports self-exploration and discovery, whether that be through traveling, learning new cultures, or falling in love, which makes the series such an icon. This message of girls growing into their skin and being happy with who they area by their own decisions. It's not subtle but it's effective.God, I will miss Liam calling Alanna, "kitten."
This series was wonderful! I'm in love this Tamora Pierce and excited to read more of her stuff.
Fantastic end to this series! Teared up several times, plenty of action..I just love Alanna!
Alanna is basically a Knight, priest, rogue, monk and mage rolled into one.-Liam's the squeeze of this book, and is predictably disposed of with some contrived character flaws and insecurities afterwards (ala Jon'), in keeping with the 'this season's sausage' mantra.-The dealings with Duke Roger were almost too stupid for me to stomach reading.
Apparently they must all be amnesiacs, because suddenly, he's back from the dead (courtesy of questionable plot devices), and somehow, everyone says he's clearly innocent, totally not up to something, and that the events leading up to his death were probably a conspiracy against his character.Why didn't they re-kill him when he was brought back from the dead again?I'm not too sure about how things were wrapped up though...
