https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31076583-a-court-of-frost-and-starlight
Things this book has:• lots of walking around Velaris• shopping for presents• lots of bad innuendos• me physically rolling my eyes every two pages• way too much internal monologue about who had fucked whom, where and in which position• one really long and really cringy sex scene• somehow galaxies were involved in the sex scene and that’s not even the weirdest thing that’s ever happened in a sjm sex scene• mate mate mate mate mate m a t e ma te ma t e mat e m ate mAtE mATe MATE matE M a te • "gentlemales"• I repeat: g e n t l e m a l e s• a few cute moments• a few funny moments• a tiny bit of actual fucking foundation for the next booksBasically Feyre and Rhys need to retire and let secondary characters finally have the spotlight.* The only POVs I genuinely enjoyed were Cassian’s and Nesta’s, which, surprise surprise, will be the focus of the next book.
In fact, I felt like the chapter excerpt for book #4 in the back had more to offer than this entire "novella" provided in 220+ pages.
I'm going to keep this as spoiler free as possible, but if you haven't read the previous books in the series I would stop here.********************I'm actually having trouble writing anything about the plot because nothing really happens in the story, aside from one decision that is made between Feyre and Rhysand.
It has come to the point where it feels repetitive and stale and dull and every single other character in this book, aside from a little bit of Cassian/Mor/Nesta was mostly left out.
This literally reads like someone from Tumblr wanted a scene with all the ACOTAR characters having christmas together so sarah whipped out her laptop.
Sarah, don’t pretend that women are so equal to men but then literally only have female characters who love jewels and shopping and cooking and serving men and having sex.
This book was COMPLETELY unnecessary and the fact that Sarah is only extending the world to exploit the characters people like and get more money is just low.
I know many people weren't happy about getting another book about them but they still hold a special place in my heart so a new whole canon book about them?
I lost count of how many times Sarah said the whole book's purpose was giving a deserved ending to the feysand arc and creating a bridge between the two series.
And I know that many people weren't happy with her arc but for me seeing her hitting rock bottom was the perfect set up for the next book, she has her own healing to go through (Cassian does too).
RAISE YOUR HAND IFyou would rather read about Mor accepting herself entirely and unconditionally and growing comfortable in her sexuality; Nesta finding her way towards healing and self love and getting her revenge on the queens; Elain focusing on her personal growth and learning to healthily cope with being Fae and slowly getting used to her new found abilities.........instead of yet another uninspired, drab, unnecessary smut scene between Feyre and Rhysand✋🏽
ACOFAS definitely doesn’t read anything like the 3 main novels; the chapters switch perspectives occasionally, featuring POVs from Feyre, Rhysand, Cassian, and Morrigan.
With Cassian’s perspectives especially, it felt like this was written to be a legitimate “bridge” between the ACOTAR series and whatever comes next, which I was honestly fond of, even if the next book’s focus on Cassian and Nesta does have me pretty nervous.
Perhaps the most unexpected bits were the ones in which we visited Tamlin—with a novella this short, I honestly didn’t expect to see him at all, and certainly not in the state in which Rhysand found him.
Buuuut I'm thinking 3 stars is pretty generous now.The story (I use that word loosely) is told through the split POVs of Rhysand + Feyre, with some third person POVs thrown in from Cassian, Mor, and Nesta.
I get that this was trying to introduce new characters and set the stage for the next book, but most novellas have a PLOT.
I really didn’t get into it until like 40% of the way through.Basically, this was like a string of deleted scenes on a dvd that you think are fun and mostly enjoy because you love the characters...
Rhys: Mate. My Mate.Me: *retches*
Update 5/11/18OMG!
This is exactly what I needed today after my stressful appointment with my Radiology Oncologist.
It's hard to read a little novella from Sarah but knowing there are more books in this series coming makes me both happy and scared.
I don't want to see any of my loves die so I'm hoping for the best.
This book was everything a novella should be, I got to fall in love with my characters AGAIN!
They make me so happy!
But I'm ready to get back to some lovely fat books in this world.
Happy Reading!
4.5*
(Understatement!)I'm sure we'll be getting more of Cassian and Nesta in the next book and Sarah J Maas does character development ridiculously well and my god, being able to look forward and dream about their character exploration makes me want to pee in me pants, man!I loved that we got see more of the Inner Circle.
And the emphasis on art in this book and seeing Feyre getting back into it as a form of healing for herself and others was a dream.The progression from ACOWAR to this felt natural and the cities and its people (including our main lot) were still healing, still too traumatised from the war.
*cue the undiluted screams of joy*   Okay. Okay. I will try to be objective about this one but I just finished ACOWAR and I am still riding that emotional high.  To summarize:  for a companion novel - not bad at all. It's full of  cotton-candy fluff,  and I devoured every single bite.Now, this one was a bit heavy on the smut and a bit light on the Nessian but it definitely had all the right feels in all the right places. Stars flickered around us, sweet darkness sweeping in. As if we were the on
Mor is absolutely terrible at expressing her feelings (and gift-giving in general).And Amren makes out like a bandit (mostly cause everyone knows what to buy her - priceless jewels).And, of course,  Nesta being Nesta made this novel shine.
Ranging from I Will Eat Your Eyes for Breakfast to I Don't Want Cassian to Know I'm Reading Smut.
I know this is just a companion novel and that there won't be much development in terms of relationships but c'mon Sarah J.
I wish I could just time-machine myself into next year for book 4.
But until I get that working, this companion novel will certainly tide me over.P.s. I got to read the hand-stamped version of Sarah J.
1.) A Court of Thorns and Roses ★★★★2.) A Court of Mist and Fury ★★★★★3.) A Court of Wings and Ruin ★★★  “The first snow of winter had begun whipping through Velaris...”  A Court of Frost and Starlight starts out a few months after the events of A Court of Wings and Ruin, and Feyre, Rhysand, and the Inner Circle are preparing for the Winter Solstice. The entire gang is also suffering in their own ways with the trauma they are enduring from the events of the war.   “But it had been a long, brutal
Please, do not proceed to read any further unless you have read this book and its predecessors or you wish to be spoiled!I have done this in the past reviews I’ve written for this series, so I’d just like to break down each character and talk about the way they made me feel.
- You all know I want Elain with Lucien, so unless SJM is really going to go there and give me a polyamorous relationship between these three, then I just get irritated that Azriel is messing with my ship.
But how are they going to find that information when so many booktubers, common sense media and Goodreads members are hiding it?You can also find the information about the erotic content of this series on the american hardcover version of a court of mist and fury.Pages 21, 22 (view spoiler)[A faery woman is descriptively fingered by someone different than the hero, then she has descriptive sex, then oral, descriptions of the fluids and the nudity and the action in vivid detail.
For a series that is supposedly about women's choices, when Goodreads, Booktubers and Publishers hide this information from young girls they are taking away their right to decide when or if they would read erotic content.
bitch is just throwing together some random nouns for her titles now
wtf?Honestly what even the fuck is the fucking point of the fucking existence of this fucking book?Normally I don't mind fanfics but.
It's basically Rhys' penis in Feyre, the word 'mate', another round of cringey ass smut, another sprinkle of 'mate', and that's it.Throw the whole fucking book away.
overallI'd rather drink bleach than read about how good Rhys' dick feels like.________________________________________________ Pre-read review Just saying that I'm honestly going to sue SJM if there's no Nessianoh sweet baby Jesus on a pogostick.
Do I have to read 224 more pages about how beautiful and selfless and big Rhys's dick is?
Now when they have “won”, the work of rebuilding, forgiveness and moving on from the losses suffered.Yes there is no where near as much action in this book, and the characters are not moved along as much as I would have wanted but the are definitely important issues uncovered her that need to be explored later.
This is more of “wet the appetite” for the next huge chapter, but almost as importantly a much need to assess where the characters are right now in themselves, and to each other.Though Feyre and Rhysand embrace their fate together.
if you're a sjm fan pls don't interact,, just skip this review,, nothing to see herepls read sil's review bc she snapped real niceword count:mate: 66male: 59...
: 133the amount of pages: 224the amount of sex scenes: 1.5 and shit ton of flashbacks because we're 900 years and horny like teenagersthe amount of genitals spotted: 0.
rhysand wasn't fucking here because he and his constant sex thoughts and annoying innuendos ruined EVERY FUCKING MOMENT.
like that moment with feyre and cassian getting drunk and messing the decorations?
if sjm actually learned not to use the m word when it's totally unnecessary in the sentence.
3.5 StarsSo...I'm not in a reviewing mood at ALL; but I figured I better lay something down here before I completely forget any thoughts I have about this book and my experience reading it.
I went in knowing that, by her own admission, Maas struggled writing it.So I guess you could say that 1) lowered my expectations bar, and 2) made me read the book knowing Maas had been experiencing personal pain while writing it.
It really drilled down into a lot of their inner thoughts and longstanding issues and baggage and - as someone who loves character driven stories - I really enjoyed that aspect of the book.
I know I'm so late for the partyBUTTHIS COVER!!!! I can't believe we'll be able to read this in a few months!!! XDPlease let there be more of Nesta and Mor and Azriel!!! More than anything, MORE THAN REALLY  A.N.Y.T.H.I.N.G  I want to see my precious red head LUCIEN though!!! So please let there be LUCIEN!!! Even if it's only a single line!!! <333PLEASEEEEEE!!!! *making huge puppy eyes*
3/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“Stars flickered around us, sweet darkness sweeping in. As if we were the only souls in a galaxy.” I'm sorry. I'm so fucking sorry. THIS BOOK FUCKING KILLED ME WITH BOREDOM. I swear to God, I'm dead now. My ghost is writing this review. I'm fucking dead because this book had no point in even existing. This book isn't even filler. It's nothing. I can't even describe it. This book was SUPPOSED to be the bridge between the old series and the new series. But like??? This book was just
But now let's go to the summary of the book, which is also inadequate.Feyre, Rhys, and their close-knit circle of friends are still busy rebuilding the Night Court and the vastly-changed world beyond.
This book was: shopping with Feyre, shopping with Mor, cooking with Elain, hardcore negotiations with Rhys, Az and Cassian, some good ol' fucking with good ol' Feyre and Rhys, and then again shopping, and then again some fucking, and some tension featuring Nesta, ART with Feyre, brooding with Tamlin, sexual tension with Cassian and Nesta, and let's not forget the epic new single....
A book about the Winter Solstice which is basically Christmas, shopping, gifts exchanging, happy times, scenes like these seem unnecessary.
Real Rating: 2.5 This book made me realize that I am more interested in the characters that are not in the inner circle like Lucien, Tamlin, Viviane, Kallias and even Eris (I’m really intrigued by him).
So hopefully, his belle would come soon 💕- I honestly don’t think Feyre did that much damage in the spring court to warrant the current state- I used the ship Nesta with Cassian like most people do but while reading this, I realized that I only shipped them because of the tension they have together.
Feyre went back to roaming around the house doing nothing all day, Mor is still hiding herself for no apparent reason— homophobia is not even a thing in this world and even if it were we all know the Inner Circle would accept her no matter what, so what’s the point?, Nesta went back to her old self (though I kind of get that), Amren lost all her strength and fierceness and just sits around doing jigsaw puzzles, and Rhys, oh god, Rhys.
FINALLY!!We have a cover! It's absolutely beautiful <3I can't wait until May :(
THERE WERENT ENOUGH PAGES. IT DIDNT LAST LONG ENOUGH. I HATE MY LIFE. BUT IM SO EXCITED FOR THE NEXT BOOK
that shit was relatable!- I loved all things related to drunk decorating- Toilet Situations + Amren :')- Snowball fights- That cake legit hurt my heart- Solistice and all of the gifts, it was just so nice and I dunno it felt like a family coming together on a holiday and just being normal and there for each other, it was just too damn cute!- All forms of Nessian interaction, my heart and soul needed it!- The dresses!Now the things that I'm in a bit of a tizz over.
RATING: 3.5OKAY SOOOOOOI really did enjoy this BUT I cannot justify a five star review for this because I mean WHERE WAS THE PLOT?!I was happy to be back with my favs but this is literally 200+ pages of shopping, painting, Rhys & Feyre making one decision, and talking.
I've been waiting what feels like my entire life for it since Rhys & Feyre decided to be rude and sneak behind our backs and get married and there was all this hype about a wedding THAT NEVER HAPPENED.
Again, RUDE.Now before you think I hate this book entirely here are some things I did LOVE.-Nesta being her usual bitchy self.
This was just supposed to bridge the gap between the old and the new series and it’s only a novella, but I still expected more.
I’m really not his biggest fan but come on, give the guy a break.Overall this book kinda bummed me out with so many depressed, unhappy and pathetic characters.
If I’m going to read the new series then only because of Az and Cassian because I love these guys.
It will be tough, though, since I don’t know how I’ll stomach any more Nesta.And thanks for reminding me why I usually don’t bother with novellas.Buddy read with my Belgian truffle.
I mean I'm not bothered by this book because this series holds a special place in my heart and, most importantly, it gave me more Cassian, obviously (if you read my pre-reviews, you can see just how much I was looking forward to getting more Cassian and more Nessian).
But, the next book is about them, while it leaves me quite nervous because I don't know how this will go, I'm still very excited because Nessian is my OTP and *ehem* I get more Cassian *ehem* and we'll finally be getting the development and healing Nesta deserves.
The only character in this whole series who was halfway decent was Tarquin and of course he was cheated and lied to and treated like garbage by that fucking MELT Rhysand and his Shit Squad who do nothing all day but shop and bake bread and cry about their sad love lives and then dabble in some more fuCking TORTURE.My goD JUST DON'T TALK TO ME ABOUT THIS UNTIL I HAVE CALMED DOWN.TWITTER • INSTAGRAM • MY WEBSITE
