https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20109273-selected-poems
Keats is lovely.
And unfortunately, as a girl deeply in love with the heiress of Romanticism, Emily Brontë, and the last Romantic, Thomas Hardy, I found Keats mild and tame in comparison… and slightly lacking in lustre.I suspect my shameful lack of Greco-Roman mythology knowledge (despite having studied Latin Literature and directly translated Metamorphoses) probably had something to do with my complete lack of interest in the epic poems - which make up over half this collection.
Luckily for me, as well as numerous critics, Keats himself acknowledged that Endymion was… well, really not that good - so I don’t need to feel guilty at not enjoying some critically acclaimed masterpiece.
Sorry, Keats, don’t take it personally.
Being student of English Literature Keats is indispensable. I simply love his poems
Just realised that, despite having read the entirety of the collection, I have yet to say anything on here about Keats.
I am so glad that I'm studying this collection as I would never have picked it up out of choice.
At the start of year thirteen I could barely stand this collection- I found Keats's language harder to understand than Shakespeare and the idea of romanticism and negative capability went right over my head!
But, over time, I must confess that I've come round to him.
Endymion is acknowledged by critics, and by Keats himself, as really not that good.
Keats is a great poet.
But he wasn't born a great poet.
He was born gifted, it is safe to say, but he became a great poet.
He made himself a great poet by writing a lot a lot a lot.
You will probably not become the Keats of your day, but if you want to get anywhere close to greatness, pay ye your dues.
I only read a few of his poems, but from what I've read I can't wait to read more. Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard  Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on; Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear'd,  Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone: Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave 15 Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;  Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss, Though winning near the goal—yet, do not grieve;  She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,
I only read a few of his poems, but from what I've read I can't wait to read more.
Heard melodies are sweet, but those unheard	  Are sweeter; therefore, ye soft pipes, play on;	 Not to the sensual ear, but, more endear'd,	  Pipe to the spirit ditties of no tone:	 Fair youth, beneath the trees, thou canst not leave	 15 Thy song, nor ever can those trees be bare;	  Bold Lover, never, never canst thou kiss,	 Though winning near the goal—yet, do not grieve;	  She cannot fade, though thou hast not thy bliss,	  For ever wilt thou love, and she be fair!
How can one fully understand the depth of Keats' poetry in a single sitting. Some of verses gave me goosebumps. Some made me understand the meaning of love and romance. I shall read Keats' poetry till I die. This is just the introduction
I just love good poetry. Keats is one of the bests.
I read all those (my favourites being the Robin Hood and the Mermaid Tavern ones) but like with Wordsworth's book I read last year, I wasn't wildly astounded by the 'short' poems, being as they are odes to extremely minor things such as people/places I don't know or dandelions, rocky crags and pebbles.
As with Wordsworth, Keats conjures up some lovely imagery and beautiful lines on occasion, but as I've read Endymion long ago, I can't bring myself to read this 108-page poem again when I can only understand about 5% of it, masterpiece though it may be.
Therefore it's no surprise that I feel in love with his work as these classical tales are some of my favourite things.
It's been stated by some scholars that by Keat's death, aged 25, he'd written more works of note than Shakespeare and Milton had combined by the time they were 25, thus suggesting that if he'd lived longer Keats may have become the greatest writer of the English language.
From reading this collection I feel like that sentiment is truthful and founded in some of the most engaging poetry I've read.
Penguin delivers an ample selection of Keats’ greatest hits, posthumously published pieces, and lesser-known poems. The breadth reminds that Keats is a brighter star, de-pigeonholing him from the category of tragic, ‘early slain’ St. Sebastian-lipped romantic, or the-name-rings-a-bell penman of a few famed odes. His lines, exasperatingly for the have-a-go aspiring poet, are very nearly all possessed of an astonishing gemlike beauty: Or where God Bacchus drains his cups divine, / Stretched out, at ease, beneath a glutinous pine; / Or where in Pluto’s gardens palatine / Mulciber’s columns gleam in far piazzian line. (Lamia, I:209-12). Regrettably, Endymion is abridged.
Pink and gold. Always in the mood for some Romanticism.
I realize now that I'm someone who enjoys shorter poems much more than longer ones, as I tend to lose track of what's happening, especially when I have to stop reading halfway through
pretty words by a very young boy ... he definitely had a "knack" for saying things the way they SHOULD be said ... :)
As much as I kind of enjoyed these poems, I pray to God I don't have to resit
John Keats was one of the great Romantic poets.
I bought this many years ago, with a collection of other Romantic poetry.
The price tag is still on this volume; it cost 50 cents from the Bradley University Book Store (so I probably bought it in 1968 or 1969)!
There is a very brief introductory essay that provides some context on the poet's works.
Then, the remainder of this volume focuses on Keats' poetry.
His first volume appeared in 1817, when he would have been about 22.
His last major work was published in 1820, shortly before his death.
Where's the Poet? show him! show him,Muses nine! that I may know him.'Tis the man who with a manIs an equal, be he King,Or poorest of the beggar-clanOr any other wonderous thingA man may be 'twixt ape and Plato;'Tis the man who with a bird,Wren or Eagle, finds his way toAll its instincts; he hath heardThe Lion's roaring, and can tellWhat his horny throat expresseth,And to him the Tiger's yellCome articulate and pressethOr his ear like mother-tongue.
You can't help but fall in love with this contemporary poet. The pain and romance this he manifests in his poems is magnificent and makes him a legend. He gained an audience after his death while robbing him a chance of life as a celebrated poet while he lived. I just love the chance to read romantics like him. Bliss :)
Not the fluufy stuff I thought it might be. Once you get beyond any preceived notions you may have you find a poet who richly desreves the kudos and acclaim he has received. Somethimes the poems are lenghty which in this modern age are a challenge but with some patient resolve the effort is soon rewarded.
I'll be brief, and I'll be simple.This is a brilliant man, whose Odes are of a quality which no man can imitate. An Ode To Psyche and Ode To A Nightingale, two of the greatest poems ever.If you don't like it, it's fine.But to me, myself, and I, greatest poet and greatest poems ever.
The verses approach the sublime, especially in the odes, with their sensuous imagery and unexpected metaphors. I found it hard to fully sink my teeth into the narrative poems, inspired by classical mythology; when it comes to rendering the English landscape, though, Keats is quite peerless.
Keats has always been and will always be lovely. That he has infused the world with more beauty in his quarter-of-a-century life than most people do in their exponentially longer lifetimes only adds to his gorgeous literary creations.
I've been in a poetry kick lately, probably prompted by rereading a Keats anthology (not this one, cover different and too lazy to go to my car and retrieve the book). Favorite is Hyperion. Damn tuberculosis--Keats died so young and had so few years in which luckily he was very productive.
First proper introduction to poetry and I was pleasantly surprised.
A reasonable-indeed, more than reasonable entry into the Microcosm of Keats.
