https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/202206.Studies_in_the_Sermon_on_the_Mount
I like this book so much I turned it into an audio and e-text app in 5 parts.
It is singularly the most rich, inspiring, convicting, and helpful book I have ever read.
First, its really long (635 pages) so by creating a mobile version with audio and synchronized text, you can absorb it as fast or as slowly as your schedule will allow (and never lose your place).
Second, because it was created in the early 1950's I provide a glossary and biographies of most of the key people Lloyd-Jones mentions.
Put simply, this book helped shape how I view the Christian life, preaching, the teachings of Christ as the basis of Christian discipleship, and ultimately helped me fall in love with the Sermon on the Mount.
At the beginning of this book, I thought MLJ to be a bit of an overrated Christian preacher in the history of the church.
I now understand why he didn't want to eventually publish Preaching & Preachers: you get to know Lloyd-Jones' approach to preaching best by reading / listening to him!
Dr. Martyn Lloyd-Jones will surely be a source of great relief for the rest of my life.
Martin Lloyd-Jones does a great job of commenting on this text of holy scripture.
I greatly appreciated how he stressed taking the text in its content and to always remind yourself of that.
I also benefited from him stressing that this is not a list of moral laws to be taken to follow, such that you can reach heaven.
Quite the opposite is true, these truths clearly show the depravity of man and our complete inadequacy to follow the law.
This is exactly opposite of what many pagan/agnostics hold to.
Fantastic. Of all the commentaries on Matthew 5-7 I've read, MLJ is the most thorough, insightful, considerate of multiple perspectives, & above all, worshipful. He does a fantastic job finding the balance of academic/theological work, and of using those things to drive readers deeper in knowledge, love, and dwelling with the God of the biblical text. Encouraging, exhorting, challenging, convicting. A great read.
A most excellent book. I would highly recommend it as a part of your daily devotional reading. The chapters are fairly short, but tightly packed with many good things to consider. I would also recommend it to the pastor/preacher as a solid example of how to preach the Word to your people.
Some people love the Sermon on the Mount and insist it is the only good part of the Bible; others give nervous shuffling glances and head it off to a future dispensation that, surely, can never be applied to the Church.With our excuses or unhealthy interest, this series of 60 sermons, collected in one volume, by David Martyn Lloyd-Jones is a breath of fresh air to our truncated interpretations.
Jones begins by interpreting the Beatitudes as the foundation of the sermon, restricting the audience to those born again, not to the whole world.
This is easily one of the best books I have ever read - it is insightful, clear, soul-searching, sober, and thorough without bogging you down. I read it over the course of about a year while teaching through the Sermon on the Mount in a Sunday School class and found it to be consistently more helpful than even DA Carson and RT France in their respective commentaries on the Gospel of Matthew. Very highly recommended. (I posted a separate review of volume 1 earlier. This book contains both volumes in one.)
This guy is a solid expository preacher. He writes 10-15 pages on one verse of the Sermon on the Mount. His whole premise is that the Sermon on the Mount is a picture of what the Christian is called to live like...pretty interesting considering how Christians are currently living and/or being portrayed. He begins by bemoaning how 'superficial' Christianity is in many people. Hoping this helps me be more consistent in living from the grace I've received. Should be good...
One of the best books or sermons I have ever read or heard on the Sermon on the Mount. I was challenged to take the words of Jesus seriously as the sermon is painting a picture of what Christian character is suppose to be. It is a long book but well worth the read and I will be reading it again.
This is one of my favorite books. It's really a collection of sermons so I found it a great day by day read. He is very direct and does not sugar coat hard topics to deliver. I re-read portions of this book quite often and have always walked away with something fresh and convicting.
This is a book I come back to again and again. Really excellent reformed teaching from Jesus explained so profoundly by the Dr. The authority of this biblical teaching leaves you feeling foolish if you ever doubted calvinist doctrine.
I love this guy! I have just started spot reading this book as I am seeking more wisdom on pieces of this Matthew text, but I have been blown away by his honesty and passion for Jesus!
Disclaimer: I only read The Beatitude section of this book. I really enjoyed it but can’t say that I want to read 400 more pages on The Sermon on the Mount nonetheless. It’s also a little more dreary to read sermon transcriptions as opposed to pure prose. That’s not a knock against the content whatsoever.
I’ve been reading this collection of sermons for several years, and am happy to say I’ve finally finished it. Lloyd-Jones is a master preacher and his spoken words translate easily to the page. And of course, these true words of God are timeless, making Lloyd-Jones’ sermons from post-WWII England still so relevant. While some sermons were more striking than others, the full series of sermons do build on each other and are worth taking in their entirety. They are challenging, steeped in scripture and provide so many new insights into the three chapters of Matthew.
His criticism of modern faith and his positive construction of what faith is (namely, trusting God in all circumstances and not the world) is great.-MLJ concludes all the sermons with a sermon applying Christology to the entire sermon which was superb.-MLJ provides good examples of the deceitfulness of sin which will be helpful for the Christian to example himself/herself with.Cons:-MLJ can be very laborious to read at times.
While this can be draining if you read the book straight through, at a relatively quick pace, it actually will be helpful in the future if you "pop in" at certain points.-While MLJ's larger framework is pretty good, his working out of the minutia is sometimes wanting.
This book is worth more than its weight in gold. I have read Jesus' sermon on the mount multiple times but never did I have a true understanding of it until I read Martyn Lloyd-Jones' book. Jones takes you through the sermon line by line explaining what Jesus actually taught and what it truly means to be a Christian. I never grow tired of coming back and reading this book again.
The Dickens of Pastors is at no loss of words in this volume. Lloyd-Jones has compiled a lengthy series on the Sermon on the Mount into thsi volume (it was originally two) and it has stood the test of time well. Some parts cry for more brevity, but one can't be too disappointed when it is the good doctor waxing eloquent.
Phenomenal book! I has been great to go through this book with the other men of the Church! This book merits a reread! And will be forever one of my favorite books to read
the best treatment of the SOTM I've read.
So far an excellent book! I have read several books by this author, and I am always challenged by his straightforward and insightful exposition of the Scriptures.
An ocean of ink has been spilt commenting on the Sermon on the Mount. This book is a gem floating on that ocean.
Without a doubt one of the best volumes on the Sermon on the Mount.
85% of this book is 5-stars and beyond.
Ordinarily 85% 5+star material is surely a 5-star book for me.
But that assumes the remaining 15% is just missable.
Consistently amazing with the occasional dud chapter that doesn’t quite stir my heart.
I also feel he teaches wrongly about the imperative of forgiveness.
I thought the entire chapter on the narrow WAY was a huge missed opportunity.
So, for that reason, I feel I can’t give it 5 stars, despite the vast majority of the material being phenomenally challenging, illuminating, and encouraging.
5-7 is what we all know as the Lord’s sermon of the mount; and i think this is the best book on it i have read so far… well not that i have read many at all…Very readable!
Blessed are the peacemakers (v.9): making peace for the glory of God***12.
Denying self and following Christ (vv.38-42): in true communion with God and living for His glory***13.
(vv.43-48): in resemblance to God and as opposed to the natural man**** Of religion1.
Seeking and finding (7:7-11): that God will always give us the best in His own good time***5.
I’ve used this commentary before as I taught through the Book of Matthew.
Martin Lloyd Jones is a great writer in his attempt to communicate from the text of scripture to the spoken/transcribed sermon.
Jones knows how to challenge and convict the reader using the written word in his commentary.
I used the book as a daily devotional and read all 60 chapters in two months.
After reading the commentary through, I have a much better grasp of the Sermon on the Mount.
I truly looked forward to each day’s chapter and was well equipped by Jones to continue to meditate on the message for that day.
More than a year and a half ago I undertook to teach youth group lessons on the Sermon on the Mount.
I did not anticipate it taking a year and a half.
I started out a bit on my own, a few lessons in I remembered a book I had inherited from my grandfather, which I had read a bit of and admired.
So I pulled it out and found it extremely valuable as I studied this passage in preparation for teaching the youth.
This book is invaluable as a personal and teaching aid for the Sermon.
Sixty expository sermons working through the Sermon on the Mount verse by verse by Lloyd-Jones. It doesn't get any better than this. The Pharisees were (are) only interested in the letter of the law; Christ in the spirit. It is convicting to see how easy it is to slip into a Pharisaic attitude. The read is not difficult but it is challenging, living the Christian life that much more.
This was my first time reading MLJ. I really enjoyed this sermon series. I came away with greater appreciation for Matthew Chapters 5-7. For more of my reaction and notable quotes, read my past comments.
Fantástico como seria de esperar
Was given a couple of reads on the Sermon on the amount. This one was outstanding!
