https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/73086.Kiss_an_Angel
But we quickly get to know Alex and Daisy, and the reason for the arranged marriage takes an approved back seat for a while.
But I don't love you, Daisy, and you can't begin to know how sorry I am about that because if I could choose anyone in this world to love, it'd be you.
She always includes a full story of the B characters, and I always love it.
Here are a couple of the B characters that I loved.Sheba is the circus owner.
She plays a key role in the story, and forms an attachment to Daisy.My Heather:Note to Susan: Dear Susan,Cheers.
Well that's exactly what happened to me but I'll do my best to try to explain it to you all.This was my favorite book from this author, I even liked it more than the Chicago stars series and I already had adored that one, I gave 5 stars to most of the books in it.
It's not like he had not tried, he had, but he thought he could never get to love someone, that he was broken inside.
5 stars!! Kiss an Angel was my first book by Susan Elizabeth Phillips, and after reading it, I'll definitely be reading more! I adored this story! Daisy Devreaux and Alex Marcov are to be wed... it's not common to have arranged marriages in the US in this day and age, but Daisy has gotten herself into a pickle and marrying Alex is the only solution she sees. She doesn't know what she's gotten herself into, though... Daisy is used to the privileged life. But things have changed for her. She think
it's not common to have arranged marriages in the US in this day and age, but Daisy has gotten herself into a pickle and marrying Alex is the only solution she sees.
That is one thing I absolutely loved about Daisy.
At first I was worried I wouldn't care for Daisy as she seemed a bit vapid at first, but I ended up loving her completely.
Alex was another story.
Daisy and Alex really do seem like an unlikely pair, but for some reason, they make the perfect match.
My only criticism is that I listened to the audio book and was not a fan of the narration.
4.5 STARSMore than 31,000 ratings and almost 1,900 reviews. What can I possibly say more? Except that I LOVED IT!!!QUICK REVIEW:Enjoyment:: 5/5Writing style: 5/5Storyline: 5/5Hero: 3/5Heroine: 4/5Secondary characters: 5/5 Hotness/chemistry: 4/5 Romance: 4/5 Angst: 3.5/5Darkness level: 2/5Humor: 4/5 Depth of the book: 5/5POV: multiple, 3rd person Triggers: (view spoiler)[none (hide spoiler)]Books with similar theme: Hearts of Fire (Hearts, #2) by L.H. Cosway, The Traveling Man (Traveling, #1) by Jane Harvey-Berrick["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I can't believe I'm about to read this because I LOATHE everything about the circus and I usually avoid any books involving them. I had a bad childhood experience at the circus and ever since then they've creeped me the fuck out. But I trust SEP, so I'm going against my gut here...
OMG...I cant even...This love story just blew me away.....   "I don't love you anymore,Alex.""It's alright sweetheart.I love you enough for the both of us." KISS AN ANGEL  is a beautiful love story that revolves around two broken & loney souls,both vulnerable and lost in their own ways...Honestly speaking,this book surprised me in more ways than one.I mean with its chic-lite cover,and the book's subtle summary.I had no clue,how emotional this book would really turn out to be.The characters
especially towards the end.The sad misunderstandings that Alex and Daisy go through...seriously,I was a mess.
I would highly recommended this book to anybody wanting a good emotional read if they have a LOT of spare time that day because trust me.You would want to finish this in one solid reading.Seriously a great book, completely deserves to be read, at least once.
RELECTURA: 19/06/2018Está claro que adoro este libro, y cada vez que lo leo amo aún mas a todos los personajes (humanos y no humanos jejeje) Es el libro que me saca de mis crisis y que siempre siempre me hace disfrutar y suspirar como la primera vez.PD: en realidad, este libro es el que mas veces me he leído, aunque ponga que es la segunda, diría que voy por la 5 jajajaja------------RELECTURA: 01/02/2017No importa las veces que lea este libro (ya perdí la cuenta) pero siempre consigue enamorarme y hacerme disfrutar de esta preciosa historia.
Y Besar a un ángel es una adorabilidad de libro jeje¡LEEDLO SI NO LO HABÉIS HECHO AÚN!
5 STARS[image error] Seriously.. I’m speechless.. LOVE LOVE LOVE this book!!!!It’s official! I am hopelessly in love with Susan Elizabeth Phillips! What a wonderful and endearing story this was. I was glued to the pages from start to finish with a stupid silly grin on my face the whole time. In fact, I can’t help smiling now as I’m writing this review. Just thinking back over the story, makes me want to pick the book up and start in all over again. The characters were absolutely fantastic. The d
So immediately following this poor excuse for a wedding, Daisy is dragged from her Manhattan lifestyle off to a broken down traveling circus where her new husband is determined to tame her to his ways.
“I’m not going to fall in love with you, sweetheart.
Empathy that soon starts feeling something like love.
And while he felt himself damaged and incapable of love, Alex soon found he was finding it harder and harder to stay away from girl he thought was beyond help.
“I love you, Daisy.
“I love you, Daisy.
simplemente me sigue encantando cada vez, lo amo!Es mi libro favorito y espero que eso no cambie...Diría que Besar a un ángel ha sido un cóctel de sensaciones para mí.
Adoré a estos dos chicos, la lengua filosa que tienen ambos, su carácter y los momentos entre ellos que son pura explosión.Es una historia de amor preciosa, con partes bien dramáticas, dolorosas y emotivas así como otras que te hacen morir de risa, muy divertidas y geniales.
Para mí es novedoso el ambiente que rodea al mundo circense, la trama en general, las situaciones que se dan a lo largo de la historia (unas tan preciosas y otras tan dolorosas y tristes)...
5 beautiful, brilliant stars!“Don't dare a person who has nothing else left to lose.” It's official! I'm hooked! I'm the newest SEPPIE Fan Girl! I loved this story! Alex and Daisy are all kinds of amazing. I laughed, I sobbed, I sighed, I fanned myself... My only problem with the story is that it ended. Thank you to my lovely friends whose ravings made read this author. What do I read next???
5 BILLION ZILLION GAJILLIONTY STARS  I take thee... to be my awful wedded husband”   I have NO idea how I missed this book by one of my all time favorite authors, considering I've practically read her entire backlist. But I did. And I've been kicking myself for days for taking this long to do it. Because this book? THIS BOOK WAS MAGICAL! It is hands down my favorite contemporary romance, not only from this author, but period. Yes. It was THAT good. Actually, no. It wasn't just good. It was brill
I have NO idea how I missed this book by one of my all time favorite authors, considering I've practically read her entire backlist.
It's in my heart, of course.” “You're letting me demean you!” She smiled.
Alex has his own reasons for agreeing to the arrangement, but he's keeping a tight lid on those.Suddenly sweet and somewhat sheltered Daisy that's used to globe trotting and dining with celebrities with her flighty and selfish past model mother, finds herself thrust into circus life, with a husband that's determined to prove to her that she can't hack it.
Doy gracias a Dios por habernos dado a SEP y que esta nos haya regalado este libro.No sé las veces que lo habré releído, pero siempre me emociona y conquista en las mismas partes.“-Esta noche no, Daisy.
Te necesito.”Es un libro maravilloso, con una historia de amor que a las románticas como yo las hace sufrir hasta el final.
Y es por ese miedo, que ha creado una coraza a su alrededor, y no deja que nadie se acerque a él.“-Calla, amor.
Pero como toda historia buena de amor, también nos harán de sufrir.“—Ya no te amo —susurró ella.
I didn't just love this book; I'm in love with it!!Admittedly when I started to read this I thought this was not going to work for me.
Even with the over-the-top unrealistic circumstances that surrounded the characters, this book STOLE MY HEART!!
Daisy, oh my goodness, talk about wearing your heart on your sleeve, she did everything… everything out of love!!
I did not like Alex at first, but as Daisy works her magic and he starts to come around, she falls for him and so did I.
I read the last 12% of this book over and over…I had a hard time putting this one away.
Fucking loved it. Loved it. Alex is a jerk, a fucking major jerk. But ... yes, his childhood was shitty. Let's give him some space.Daisy, Daisy, Daisy. I love you.Tater. I love you too.Sheba. You are a bit of cunt. “But I don't love you, Daisy, and you can't begin to know how sorry I am about that because if I could chose anyone in this world to love, it'd be you.” My expectations are so high for the new SEP book due out in August. I sure hope it lives up to my expectations.
5 Tu, yo y el circo STARS Según mi perfil de Goodreas tengo 431 libros pendientes por leer. Y cada día la lista aumenta más y más. Lo bueno de esto es que nunca me quedo sin material de lectura, al terminar de leer un libro ya tengo en frente otro. Lo negativo es, que en entre tantos libros algunos títulos quedan en el fondo, o simplemente olvidados. Como es el caso de este libro. A primera vista la portada y título del libro me parecieron aburridos, así que lo empecé a leer solamente para sabe
A primera vista la portada y título del libro me parecieron aburridos, así que lo empecé a leer solamente para saber de qué trataba ya que ni siquiera recuerdo cómo fue que llego a mi biblioteca electrónica.
Pocas veces me ha pasado esto, desde las primeras lineas en las que la protagonista está diciendo sus votos matrimoniales y olvida el nombre del hombre con el que se esta casando, yo ya me encontraba enganchada.
Lo mejor del libro es que se desarrolla en un Circo.
Ame este libro por completo, esta fue mi cara todo el tiempo mientras lo leia.
*** 5 Adksldkdl💕❤😍 STARS***   Reto 2018: Una relectura    —Ya no te amo —susurró ella. —No te amo en absoluto.A él se le puso un nudo en la garganta.—No importa, cariño. Yo tengo amor suficiente por los dos.  AMO ESTE LIBROOOO!!! 💕❤Sin duda es el mejor libro de SEP y uno de mis favoritos de la vida, tenía miedo de hacer esta relectura porque hay veces que un libro te gusta tanto que cuando lo vuelves a leer no es lo mismo y tienes que bajarle la calificación y me hubiera dolido en el alma. Grac
No tan así pero casi..👇👇Este libro tiene uno de los inicios más divertidos y enganchables de todos los tiempos a Daisy en plena boda al citar sus votos se le olvida del nombre de su futuro marido, a mí todavía me da mucha risa.
😂😂 Todo el libro es bastante divertido pero también es uno de los libros más tiernos dulces y bonitos que he leído sin llegar a ser empalagoso y que me ha causado tantos sentimientos aun con una historia tan simple y sencilla.
So with the epilogue/ending (.5 points) and the sexual chemistry (.25 points), I'm going with a 4.25 star rating.Brief Summary of the Storyline:  This is Daisy and Alex's story.
I felt bad for his past, but I did want him to communicate a little better with Daisy at times.h rating: 5 stars.
Their sexual chemistry just fell a little flat for me for some reason.Descriptive sex: YesOW/OM drama: Yes (view spoiler)[ An ex f-buddy of the H is the owner of the circus, and she causes a good bit of drama for the couple (because she had fallen in live with him and he didn't return the feelings).
When I first read Kiss an Angel I was highly disappointed. I don't know why it bugged me so much. Honestly, I just didn't like the hero or the heroine in this book. The hero is no hero. He is abusive, explosive, and a complete douchebag. He treated the heroine horribly. Daisy starts out an awesome heroine and turns into a doormat. SEP books I recommend: Natural Born Charmer, This Heart Of Mine, Honey Moon, Lady Be Good, Ain't She Sweet and Call Me Irresistible.
Normally contemporary romance novels from the 90's aren't really my thing, but this was compared to The Unwanted Wife by Natasha Anders so I had to read it.Kiss An Angel is the story of Daisy who gets roped into an arranged marriage to a man who seems to despise her.
Alex works for a traveling circus and seems to find a lot of pleasure in assigning Daisy to tasks which would humiliate her.
But Alex will never love anyone, and he makes it clear he will never love Daisy.This book started out a bit rough for me, I almost threw in the towel and I pushed on.
I really liked Daisy and Alex, I liked them even more together.
KISS AN ANGEL published 18 years agoDaisy has finally pushed her dad to his breaking point.
Spending all her deceased mother’s money and racking up debt has lead her father to give her one last chance.
Sounds easy enough?!?!Alex is a strict Russian who has agreed to marry Daisy because of a debt he owes her father.
To break Daisy of her wild and frivolous ways he’s been informed that he must be firm when dealing with her.
Alex is a no nonsense man who manages a traveling circus.
The circus atmosphere along with the animals adds to the completeness of the story.
El primero que he leído de esta autora.Por supuesto quiero más.
So I am going to continue with my laziness and provide you with a short and sweet review.
Now that I have read and loved enough of her books I have put her on the dreaded author pedestal.
Their words are spot on and their pictures capture some of my favorite moments in the book too.But I will say…..The two main characters Daisy and Alex were pretty amazing.
❤ And one thing I always love about SEP books are the side story and side characters.
As the story starts to peak I found myself completely invested in not only Daisy and Alex’s love story but the relationships of the others characters.
Mă bucur că am cedat presiunii prietenelor mele Dana și Tyna și am făcut cunoștință cu această autoare. O poveste sensibilă, amuzantă și dureroasă în același timp. O poveste despre iubire.
I have to thank my buddy Lana for the rec and for listening to me bitch and moan while reading this one. :D Will definitely re-read some day
2, 5 reallyI didn't like the hero, he was a real as*hole for me and the heroine was kind of a doormat, so I didn't like her much, either. Their marriage was based on something unbelievable for me. And there wasn't enough groveling at all... Little to none!My 2,5 points go to the scenes with Sinjun, the tiger and Tater, the elephant, as I fell in love with these two animals :)
Written September 14, 20135 Glimmering Huge Stars - Amazing, wonderful, sentimental, romantic... just the best kind of romance - simply a story that must be read - and now belongs to my top shelf         I'm in love! In love... In this wonderful story. Therefore, this is an exuberant, completely one-sided tribute review and must be read with an ounce of sanity. Because I never want to stop and will say again and again in different ways how much I love this book. Please be patient!! ~~~~~~~~~~~~
There is both happiness, tears, laughter but above all an absolutely incredible wonderful heroine in the lovely Daisy (an angel is really the right term).
"...to be my awful wedded husband...” Daisy Devreaux can either go to jail or marry Alex Markov, the man her father has chosen for her.
Tater the baby elephant in love, Glenna a lonely female gorilla and of course the poor old "talking" tiger Sinjun.
Animals in cramped cages and with rather dire living conditions which Daisy came to take care of and started to love.
I loved Daisy and Alex, their grand lovestory, their friends and all the cute animals in the circus.
Not my idea of romance at all.The itinerant circus setting was well-portrayed and original, but even the secondary characters were mostly exaggerated stereotypes, like Sheba, the "strong" woman of the situation, and the quasi-preternatural connection Daisy develops with some animals further detracted from my enjoyment, since I usually don't care for unexpected paranormal abilities popping up to show a character's specialness in what is initially presented as a realistic background, especially when contemporary.If I don't regret having read this book, for the always delicious writing, the fast moving plot and a little bit for having finally slaked my curiosity, I can't see myself picking it up ever again, nor would I recommend beginning one's acquaintance with SEP's oeuvre from here.
Una novela previsible de principio a fin y bastante inverosímil para estar situada en la época actual, pero está tan bien escrita, tan cargada de ternura y tiene tantos matices, que se le pueden perdonar todos sus deslices. Daisy es una persona buena en esencia, capaz de ver el lado amable de cualquier situación y por eso mismo, la única capaz de desarmar el carácter y mal genio de Alex. Se desarrolla muy bien la evolución de la pareja principal, sin que por ello ninguno de los dos pierda su identidad. Excelentes diálogos y escenas íntimas de unos personajes inolvidables.
Its a beautiful love story with a strong cast of characters, each playing a vital role to make this story a worthwhile read.Alex Markov was rescued by Daisy’s father Max when he was twelve years old from the constant physical abuse he was facing under his uncle Sergey.
5 Estrellas Como amé este libro, disfruté tanto leerlo desde la primera página ya me tenia enganchada hasta no soltarlo los personajes son tan increíbles y adorables, nunca había leído un libro donde estuvieran en un circo y la temática me encantó adoré a los animales.
