https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110387.The_Secret_Diaries_of_Miss_Miranda_Cheever
Today I fell in love.
And then I fell out of love.
It appears that I can't help myself : give me a smart, brave, strong-minded heroine who doesn't shy away from her desires and a - a what exactly?
And then Turner started to act like a selfish jerk, so childish, really (I mean really?
Turner crossed this line and I couldn't find in me to care about him anymore.
Turner finally realizing that he loves her).
My favorite moment in this book is when the heroine has to be physically restrained because she opens a can of whoop-ass on a bookstore owner who refuses to sell her a book because he only sells to men.
Apparently, they had bookstores for men only, and women only.
And, she spends her marriage being all butt-hurt.Well, girl, maybe if you had kept your legs closed, you wouldn't have this problem.In the old days, before cellphones and dinosaurs were running wild, my old grammy used to say that you always had to hold a quarter between your knees when you went out on a date.
Those authors are: Eloisa James, Lisa Kleypas, Sarah MacLean, and Julia Quinn.This is (so far) my favorite Julia Quinn.Miranda Cheever meets her best friend's elder brother Turner for the first time when she is only ten years old, and she loves him instantly.
Nearly ten years later, she still loves him, but Turner is no longer the bright and optimistic young man she first gave her heart to.I've already said that HR is my new favorite guilty pleasure, so I have no problem admitting that I LOVE this premise--girlish crush becomes unrequited love becomes not-so-unrequited love.
Fair warning: This is a gut-reaction review, written under the influence of my monthly "gift" from mother nature.
Specifically by Turner and, to a lesser extent, by Miranda herself.
I can't think of anything in the book I can qualify as "romance" and still hold my head up high.First, Turner.
There is no excuse for behaviour like that.
I don't care how scared poor widdle Turner is.
when he backhanded Avry but I'm ready to lead a lynch mob out for Turner's blood?
No. She'd rather blindly believe she can "fix" the damage done by Turner's first wife.
I like Quinn's writing (despite the scattering of anachronistic expressions which sometimes threw me out of the era), I mostly liked Miranda, and I was prepared to like Turner if he got over his conviction that his previous lousy marriage entitled him to be a jerk.
And I felt that Quinn wrote their personalities so that would have been believable, then for some reason pulled a cliched "oh noes you almost died having my baby I luuuv you!" This was one of a number of cliches that weakened the book: running into the drunk hero in the library in a virginal-yet-hott white nightgown, check.
And the end of the year ends with a sweet romance, so sweet that my teeth ache! 😂I loved parts of the book, especially the character of Miranda. And other parts of the book annoyed me. The whole, “Why don’t you love me?” plot was a bit much. The book could have been about 70 pages less and got a better rating from me.I’ll still continue with the series though because I’m sure there will be a story about Olivia and I’m looking forward to that book!
At the tender age of ten Miranda Cheever fell in love with the brother of her best friend; Viscount Turner, with his act of kindness to a awkward growing girl, Miranda never forgot his words that day to her and kept a journal with her thoughts of love since then.
Now years later the once kind and caring Viscount Turner, Nigel Bevelstoke is left a bitter and cold hearted man after his wife ripped all his dreams of love and family to sheds with her numerous affairs before her death.
I couldn't put it down, which I'm sorry because it was over so fast that I feel bad for having spend money in something that lasted useful in my hands only some hours,lol.
Then again, I can't think in anything better than spending my money in this amazing books,lol, I don't regret it of course.
But I guess you just can't help it when you find a good book.Julia Quinn is just an amazing writer.
Just wanted to say that after having read her Bridgerton's series I though she couldn't write anything just as good, but let me tell you that this series does not disappoint.
Es de esos libros que te gusta releer con el tiempo y disfrutar como la primera vez.....Adoro las historias de amores infantiles que con el tiempo madura y se convierte en un amor verdadero....
Miranda es un personaje adorable ( aunque hay veces que la daria un coscorron por ser tannnnnn persistente jejeje), cree en el amor y en Turner y sabe ver los defectos de este ( no se ciega por el amor infantil que siente desde siempre)....
y Turner (ayyyy que cabezon muchacho!) con el corazon roto por un mal matrimonio y curado de espanto, no sabe reconocer lo bueno cuando se lo ponen delante....Ayyyy Julia cuando nos haces de Sufrir ( y de disfrutar):))
#RetoRitaUna delicia.Es una novela de esas con una protagonista femenina con carácter, apasionada e ingeniosa. Es la historia de un amor infantil, se transforma en un amor adulto, verdadero y apasionado.Turner, desengañado y absolutamente decepcionado del amor (con toda la razón). Los diálogos entre ellos son chispeantes, un tira y afloja continuo, muy divertidos.Es una de esas novelas, que sin ser una historia con grandes pretensiones, resulta una delicia. Romántica, divertida, dulce. La he disfrutado muchísimo otra vez.
I just finished this and for the first 2/3 of the book I really enjoyed it. There’s a ton of witty dialogue that is trademark Julia Quinn. She has a way of making you feel a part of her protagonists’ lives. I loved the diary entries.
I have no bookshelves to put this book on. The Secret Diaries of Miss Miranda Cheever was my third book by Julia Quinn, and it seems that the third try is the charm. -ish.While I wasn't deeply offended by it, as I was with  The Duke and I , or so indifferent to it that I found it utterly forgettable, as is the case with To Catch an Heiress, The Secret Diaries of Miss Miranda Cheever leave still a lot to be desired.What bothered me most, besides the age difference and the fact that the heroine is
, or so indifferent to it that I found it utterly forgettable, as is the case with To Catch an Heiress, The Secret Diaries of Miss Miranda Cheever leave still a lot to be desired.What bothered me most, besides the age difference and the fact that the heroine is only nineteen, which I can't state enough, creeps the ever loving life out of me, is the great imbalance between Miranda and Turner.
*major creeps ensue when they're making love because she seems too young for him*Two stars because 60% of this book are perfectly enjoyable.
I ADORE Miranda Cheever.
She and her sweet friend Olivia are two of my favorite characters in modern writing.
The story was lovely and unexpected, filled with the unrequited love of a ten year old girl.
(Miranda Cheeser) And with the pain and disenchantment with life that comes when all your hopes and dreams in life are shattered.
How we rebuild is a measure of our character and resilience.
And this in one of my favorites!
:)))) Audio format: narrated by Jenny Sterlin = 3.5 not the worst, but only because the story was so good.
Η άποψή μου για το βιβλίο στο site "Book City" και τον παρακάτω σύνδεσμο: Το κρυφό πάθος της Μιράντα
This book exacerbates the problem because it is so perfectly obvious that the hero does love the heroine and he shows her in a million ways, which leads to the other eye-rolling part of the tension: the heroine's desperate need to hear three little words or her life is simply unbearable.
But there was an opportunity for the heroine to die at the end as we waited in not-so breathless anticipation to find out that she would make it, I found myself thinking how much better the book would be if she did die.
Upping to 3.5 stars second time around.First time:This may be my least favorite Julia Quinn book, certainly in the bottom three. Miranda was too foolish and Turner was too much of a jerk for it to strike me as amusing.
14 libro del #RetoRita. Hacía tiempo que no leía nada de Julia Quinn y me ha parecido un libro muy de su estilo, entretenido y dulce, aunque mucho más explícito en las escenas de amor que la saga de los Bridgerton. Aunque me ha gustado la pareja principal, no me han vuelto loca. Le doy un 3,5.
Have a backbone!)** (5) Miranda is not even UPSET by the fact that she miscarries and regardless of the kind-of-explanation that her mother had many miscarriages also, I just found this VERY troubling - you'd think she would somehow be affected** (6) I didn't like the progression of the book, one example being the fact that we basically skip over the first six months of Miranda's second pregnancy and are just given one of her diary entries as a substitute** (7) I was annoyed with Miranda (if you couldn't tell, Miranda gets progressively more annoying as you read) when she finally gets her long-awaited declaration of love and she reacts negatively at first because she doesn't want him to have realized his love only because he almost lost her(8) The ending was very, very corny and yes, I know, I'm reading a romance novel, but the whole journal-revealing moment and Turner's comments ("My God, Miranda," he breathed reverently.
Miranda Cheever fell in love with her best friend's older brother when she was a young girl, now as a young woman...she's still just as in love. Seeing him so wracked with hatred and unhappiness after his philandering wife's death she longs for the man she remembers, the kind and funny man she fell in love with. Turner doesn't remember Miranda being so interesting or desirable, but after his bitter marriage full of disappointment and heartbreak he isn't willing to risk falling in love again, es
Turner doesn't remember Miranda being so interesting or desirable, but after his bitter marriage full of disappointment and heartbreak he isn't willing to risk falling in love again, especially not with his sister's best friend.Way back when this book has to be one of my first reads by Julia Quinn and so has a special place in my heart, which is why when I was recently in a bit of a book slump that I decided to give it a go.
He knocks Miranda up and does not ask her to marry him even though anyone who's read even a page of a Regency romance knows that just a kiss means you're a dirty dirty whore to the Ton. After he finds out he knocks her up, he goes on a six week bender.
When he finally mans up and goes to her Scotland baby-birthing place to do the right thing, he is relieved that she miscarried.
The worst part is that Julia Quinn writes this with the conviction that Nigel is A Good Man in Bad Circumstances.
So much drama and so addicting!! Loved it!!
You'll fall in love with her character right away.So, she listened and asked for a journal from her absent-minded scholar father and wrote: 2 March 1810 .
Miranda still loves him.
I liked both Miranda and Olivia and their friendship.
But, in a historical romance like this one that's just plain wrong.*the unpleasant part may stay with you in such a story, but at least you knew the rules of the world beforehand (hide spoiler)]Overall, a lovely story that took its sweet time to get its main character accept what is going on.
I love a bittersweet story of romance.
I read some reviews where people complained about a hero not being able to say the dreaded three words (I LOVE YOU).
However, I honestly felt bad for the hero in this story.
I could feel his pain, and I could feel the heroine's pain.One reason I love Julia Quinn as an author is the way she can craft a captivating story with no gimmick (spies, action, murder, time-travel, etc).
She is very talented at just writing a story with good character development.
So...I started off loving this book even though the "hero" (Turner) was kind of (for a lack of a better word) weak.
I instantly connected with Miranda...
oh how I love the ugly duckling turned beautiful swan stories...but something happened that threw the book way off track and it never came full circle for me.
Turner just didn't fit the bill and I kept hoping Quinn would man him up a bit, but she never really did.
I hate that Miranda didn't get the man that she deserved...I bet that's one thing she'll never write in that diary of hers!
Regency romance with sex.
I really don't think Julia Quinn even wrote this.
It just doesn't seem like something she'd write.
There's very little humor in it & JQ is all about humor in her stories.
I didn't like Miranda.
Her heart is always on her sleeve & for what?
One act of kindness 10 years ago?
Divested of her virginity, Miranda waits in vain for a kind word or marriage proposal.
It's all about him & his poor 1st marriage.
After having sex with Miranda (NOT making love!) he takes off for 7 weeks to a rowdy house party.
Por lo que esta vez, ya habiendo meditado durante, mmmm, 5 minutos tras haberlo terminado, le pongo 5.He disfrutado como una enana con los ellos (Miranda y Turner).
:).Por otra parte está Turner, un hombre que se enamoro de una manera desbocada, pasional de su primera mujer, y posteriormente, sufriendo por dicho matrimonio, convirtiéndolo en cínico con respecto al amor y a las relaciones en el matrimonio.
Tan poco hacía rellenar con tonterías para llenar el libro, ellos dos sólitos lo han hecho fantásticamente bien.Por cierto Miranda en la actualidad, sería otra de nosotras, usando Goodreads, foros, reseñando.
The characters of Turner and Miranda were inconsistent.
Miranda was poised and had dignity and did give Turner a hard time for being the cad that he was.
He was told that Miranda "was pregnant before but no longer".
No "what happened?", no "are you ok?" I have never been pregnant myselft but losing a baby is a TRAUMATIC experience.
I was appalled by how cool Turner and Miranda both were about the miscarriage.
The book has all the Julia Quinn charms which is why I still found the reading experience positive.
I won't be gushing about the book but it is worth a read.
This book appealed to me more in the audio version than when I read it several years ago. Jenny Sterlin did a fine job narrating.
So I have this mental list of amazing male protagonists from novels, men who get to stand proud and tall in their billowy tucked-in, unbuttoned shirts, as I bestow upon them admission to the exclusive “Best Romantic Heroes in Literature” Club. …Nigel Bevelstoke, Viscount Turner  is not  one of them.**Full-Steam Spoilers (and Rants) Ahead**First off, I would like to point out that this is the third book by Ms. Quinn that I have read, and funnily enough, the three books I have read have been THIS
Nigel shoves his sister against a wall when she’s upset at the prospect of losing her friend, he shakes her like a ragdoll and threatens to backhand her if she doesn’t tell him why Miranda has gone to Scotland (she retreated there when she found out she was pregnant and Olivia is the only person who knows the reason), and when he corners Miranda in Scotland, he tells her that he has people watching her house so she can’t escape, he grabs her wrist and painfully squeezes it until she complies and agrees to whatever he wants, and gives her many a disturbing glare, all with the threat that something *bad* is going to happen to her if she dares disobey him.This is NOT a man to fawn over.
Tampoco en sus diarios, a los que el título de la novela parece darles una gran importancia y, en cambio, tienen la justa, pues no revela mucho más que lo que ella ya nos demuestra en las escenas que le corresponden, tanto con su comportamiento como con sus pensamientos.
Turner no es un buen protagonista de romántica en el sentido de que resulta difícil, como lectora, enamorarse de él, pero me ha parecido muy real, mucho más que Miranda.
