https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/361119.Hawkmistress_
while I enjoyed the darkover series as a whole, this book was probably my favorite. I remember signing it out of the local library when I was in sixth or seventh grade, and getting so caught up in romilly's familial angst, and her desperation to fit in somewhere, anywhere, that by the time I got the end I was in tears. the story stuck with me, so when I stumbled across a copy in a second-hand bookstore a few years back I immediately snatched it up and brought it home.
But there are some Darkovan creatures in this book, like the sentry-birds.
This makes it a little less like a terrestrial story just displaced to a different landscape.I think the character of the child Caryl is more important than he's often given credit for.
One would like to hope that Caryl would begin developing such a bloc, before fraternal strife further decimates a society already weakened by inbreeding and the unique reproductive problems associated with laran.I observe that the nonsense about crying being worthless is compounded in this book by the ridiculous argument that anger is beneficial.
I loved this story. Romilla is a great woman and her story is wonderful. I think this historical period of Darkover is one of the most fascinating, oh well, all Darkover eras a re fascinating!I'm so glad I decided to read the whole series again!
La prima parte sembra un lungo prologo e quella finale, in cui c'è una vera e proprio GUERRA CIVILE, presenta un conflitto a casaccio A CINQUE PAGINE DALLA FINE DEL ROMANZO (mi chiedo proprio come finirà, guarda) e scrive a mo' di epilogo una delle conversazioni più stupide che abbia mai letto (cioè, manco i personaggi dei cartoni di Walt Disney parlano di matrimoni e piani per il futuro in modo così meccanico e forzato).La protagonista, Romilda, è un'antenata e prototipo della Nihal troisiana: una ragazzina così viziata e lagnosa da prendere a sberle ogni volta che apre bocca, ma per fortuna non troppo Mary Sue (almeno non è una modella tettona di 40 kili in grado di combattere con spadoni più grandi di lei) e anche abbastanza credibile come personaggio, al contrario della sua controparte moderna.Lo stile dell'autrice ha messo a dura prova i miei nervi: domande retoriche manco se piovesse e tantissimi punti esclamativi!
What makes the two novels in The Ages of Chaos stand out is the sacrifices that are being made in order to bred and keep laran (Darkovan psi powers) within the ruling families.In the first novel of the omnibus, Stormqueen!, the story centers around a young woman (a pre-teen more accurately), Dorilys, with a special type of laran to call forth lightning and storms.
How could there not be, these two stories are set in the 'Ages of Chaos' after all.
I stayed up way too late last night finishing this, despite having already read it countless times.
It doesn't seem to have lost any of its impact since the last time I read it.
And in rereading it now, I'm suspecting it to be one of the influential books of my life.
And the matter-of-fact reality of homosexuality, though that had a bigger personal impact on Romilly than Menolly.I noticed that latter bit more this time than in previous rereads.
If so, I'm sure I will spend many years of it reading the never-written sequels to many favorite books!
I have read none of the Darkover fantasy series before; this was the first and it was very good.
Romilly MacAran is the main character of the novel with a gift of laran, psychic powers inherited from her father, which allows her to train horses and birds.
Romilly dresses as a boy, has adventures, gets out of scrapes, learns more about her laran, saves herself, and then saves a kingdom.
The novel was a little too much feminist leaning, perhaps, and Romilly has a period where she is a bit of a snot that I found unattractive as she deals with the horrors and exigencies of war.
enough to want to read the other books in the series.
Clearly my one of my favourites in Darkover along with The Forbidden Tower. Very engaging character and storyline, all the feministic touch of MZB but not too much, gripping story and lot of nature there. Loved it.
Loved it, loved it, LOVED IT! What an amazing book with strong heroine. I loved the independence and critical thinking the Romilly has. Her views on marriage and womens right were expressed so wonderfully.
Com este livro termino a trilogia Darkover publicada pela DIFEL.O terceiro livro da cronologia (segundo Wikipédia e considerando unicamente os livros da MZB) retrata a estória da Romilly MacAran no fim da Era do Caos em Darkover.
This feminist fantasy novel was one of my favourites by MZB.
I loved this book, it is my favorite out of the series that I have read so far. Romy was so real to me. I really hoped to see her in a future story as she traveled her path in life and evolved.
Slow start, but worth the read.
Great story, as ever.
Once she is revealed to be a man, Romily falls into the company of the Renunciates, the society of Darkovan women who refuse to follow conventional rules concerning women.It's really the best of Bradley--strong women, political intrigue, and a final climactic battle scene that's as good as any in fantasy literature.
I still think 'Thendara House' is Bradley's best novel, although I'm hard pressed to think of reasons why 'Hawkmistress' isn't just as good.
These collections are put out by Daw books, and are handy because they don't cost more than a regular paperback, they give you two or three books for the price of one, and they keep good fantasy novels that are forty years old and older in print.
Romilly isn't perfect, but like any journey, she grows into a young woman of resourcefulness and strength as she seeks a place to belong where she doesn't have to compromise who she is and the gift she's been given.
Romilly, much like Menolly of Dragonsong, was that heroine whom I admired and had things in common with.
One of the best things about the Darkover series is that no matter where you start, there's always a complete story.
Though this essentially fleshed out Romilly's part of the annoying Clingfire trilogy, it was such a treat to escape the protracted Eduin saga that I didn't mind the retread.
Reading these in order, but finding it odd the way the saga had been pieced together after the fact.
With the Clingfire books jammed in as an afterthought, this book now leaves us back on the middle of that story, so I'm not sure where I'll find myself with the next book.
Oddly enough, when my first Darkover novel was shoved into my hands years ago, it was apparently from the middle of the story.
I'm a fan of Marion Zimmer Bradley, but my affection for her rests not on the Avalon books, which I didn't care for, but her Darkover series.
(Thus the title, "Hawkmistress.")Although some of the Darkover books are loosely connected, having characters in common, this one can be read completely independently.
That's particularly so given MZB didn't come into her own as a writer until the mid-seventies, and books published earlier, even though they may fall later chronologically, are much weaker books.
Hawkmistress!, however, was published in 1982, when MZB's powers were at their height.

I do think this one of the weakest novels--if not THE weakest!--that I've read in Bradley's Darkover series.
Yes, it has a very strong female character &, yes, there is the conflict between the sexes.
Nothing happens except a very interesting female character huffs & puffs & broods over life not being fair.
Instead of lifting the story, it drags it down into netherworld of boredom.By no means let this assessment turn you off from this series for I truly enjoy the planet Darkover & will return to it again--Bradley is a great writer.

I really appreciated Romilly's strong female character, after the last few Darkover novels I read where I just couldn't connect with the female leads.This book had many things I love in a book: strong female lead, a journey, resisting what is expected, a connection to animals, a bit of fantasy, and a bit of romance.
It reminded me a bit of Anne McCaffrey's Dragonsong, which I love, but the setting was very Darkover.I enjoyed Romilly's adventures and loved the ending - it was very true to the young woman she had become.On the other hand, at times it felt over long and over wrought, and there was a bit of repetition.
Grade C.
Book D2.6, D2C.Notes on Hawkmistress.
May contain spoilers.
These notes were taken during reading long before the internet existed.
I attempted to place each novel in a fictional chronological order based on content.
It does have errors.
Dates were later adjusted to make more sense.No estimated date.
She helps fight for the deposed king Caroilne Hastur.
Heads for tower training in the end.---- charactersRomilly McArren (~15)Carolline Hastur - deposed kingCaryl - a childAleric - youngOrain - Aleric's fatherThe story fits between Storm Queen and Two To Conquer.
The next book would be Shattered Chain part 1.
This is my very favorite of the Darkover novels and I can't count how many times I've read it.
I once wanted to name my daughter Romilly, but my husband nixed that.Romilly MacAran is a classic example of Bradley's strong female characters who chafe at society's restrictions upon them.
In the process, we see Bradley's Darkover as it was during the Ages of Chaos, with all the different gifts of the mind (Romilly's is rapport with animals) and the strange and terrible methods of warfare, plus her amazing societal structure.
I visit Darkover time and again.
[These notes were made in 1984:]. An earlier period in Darkover's history, before the setting-up of the Earth station. Romilly is an under-appreciated daughter in a male-dominated house, who discovers she has "laran" (telepathy) and particularly the kind which allows communication with animals. Once again feminist, in that it involves a woman breaking away to do her own thing, this novel is not offensively polemical like Thendara House. Instead we get lots of good sword-and-sorcery stuff involving usurpers and rightful kings, etc. etc. I enjoyed this one very much.
I think I may have hit a Darkover tolerance level. Yes, I appreciate independent, talented, smart women. Yes, the idea of being able to link with animals through laran is captivating. However, I'm getting somewhat burned out on men that are insistent about controlling and/or demeaning women. There is a great deal of interactions with horses, hawks, and other creatures. Oh---I'm also rather tired of stubborn folks who have laran, refuse to accept training, and then end up with all kinds of problems due to the lack of training.
This was the first fantasy book I ever read with an absolute strong female lead.
I was mesmerized, I don't remember the exact moment of magic as I do when I first was introduced to the hobbit, but MZB had as much of an influence on me as Tolkien.
I was as much of a confused teenager at the time of reading this as Romilly and absolutely sympathized and related to many of her thoughts and emotion.
I cried when Thorin died in the Hobbit, and I cried for Orains troubles in this book.
That is a great compliment from me.
I had no idea that Bradley was known for her fantasy novels. I came upon these in the San Francisco library and plowed through most of the series in a couple of years. In my experience, it is difficult to come to most fantasy worlds as an adult. Most people I know who like fantasy came across one or two authors when they were teens and tended to stick with those. I admired how well-drawn and varied the Darkover novels were, but they didn't capture my imagination the was that MacCaffrey and Lackey did.
I love the Darkover books. In this one Romily has the MacAran gift of rapport and control with animals. She can train even the most ferocious hawk. When her father gives her precious trained hunting hawk to her brother and her in marriage to a loathsome neighbour twice her age she takes flight on her own. She has great adventures, meets a future king and rescues that kings brother who is her friend. Darkover is a wonderful world to spend some time in.
I didn't want this book to end! I cared about Romilly and those she cared about, wanted the good guys to win and yes, wanted to keep on reading. Not just to figure out what would happen next in Romilly's life, but also because I enjoyed the story so much. Wish there was a sequel to this story, a book set a few years down the line that explains what Romilly chose to do with her life and why, exactly.
