https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/288946.The_Deep
”In sea water more than a few feet deep, blood is green. Water filters the light from above, seeming to consume the colors of the spectrum shade by shade. Red is the first to succumb, to disappear. Green lasts longer. But then, below 100 feet, green, too, fades away, leaving blue. In the twilight depths--180, 200 feet, and beyond--blood looks black.” I DVRed The Deep (1977) because I knew it was based on the Peter Benchley novel. I’ve been meaning to read the book as part of my nostalgic 1970s h
”In sea water more than a few feet deep, blood is green.
Finding the movie playing was one of those portentous moments where I decided the universe was talking to me, and it was convincing me that it was time to return to my 1970s tour.
He played Quint in the movie version of Jaws, also written by Peter Benchley.
This turns into one dangerous honeymoon for the Sanders as they and Treece try to recover the ampoules before Cloche and his gang.
The book is fast paced and definitely has some underwater chills which may have actually come across better in print than in the movie.
في الأعماق يستحيل لون الدماء إلى الأخضرلمعة الماس تجذب الباراكودا في الاعماقالمورفين قد يكون من كنوز الأعماقفي أحداث متلاحقة لها عبق البحر و رائحته. .تبدأ منذ عام 1943 ثم يكملها الزوجين ساندرز في أواخر السبعيناتو لان القبور تذخر بالشجعان و لان العريسين كان من الأفضل لهما كثيرا التركيز في شهر العسل..سنلهث خلفهما هم و قراصنة البوكانير بيتر بينشلي صاحب الفك المفترس لم يخذلني قط . .أدب البحر اعشقه و ألجأ إليه عندما ارغب في السفر ولا استطيع. .رواية تتخمنا بالمعلومات و لا تحرمنا من المتعة
I probably read this when I was 11 or 12 and I only remember two things from it: the female character bending over so that her bikini-covered breasts' honey-coloredness became visible, and the word "ampules." This is the kind of book you should read when you're 11 because you'll get much more out of it.
In general, they were good and believable, which is what I expect on a good book.I really liked that the story explored two shipwrecks, and the secrets the characters found out about History that weren't know; that's something that interests and fascinates me, even though it's just fiction.The book had a fast pace and some gripping moments, but nothing really awesome until the last 50 pages, when I things became even more awesome and I couldn't put it down.The Deep was a pleasant surprise to me, and I think it should be more recognized.
The couple are adamant about not supplying the local drug lord and they are fighting for their lives.I have never seen the movie that was developed from this book so this was all new for me.
What stood out about this book was the description of the dives as the characters searched the bottom of the ocean.
The theme of the drugs was always present but I wish the threat of the drug lord was more of a menace.This book is a good example of a beach read.
After Jaws I was hoping for more. This has a plot hole you could Captain a U-boat through. Too bad, since the main character is well drawn, perhaps too well, since a backstory dump drags down chapter three. If a crappy plot won't keep you from a sea yarn, it's a fair Audiobook. DNF halfway.
While it's not as much fun as Jaws, Beast, or White Shark, the Deep was some decent summer reading.
Athough there are a couple of cool scenes with a big creepy moray eel, those were my favorite parts.I liked the tropical vacation in Bermuda setting and all the scuba diving.
I've never been scuba diving so it's cool to read about it.
The voodoo based villains were somewhat reminiscent of the villains in Live and Let Die which is one of my favorite Bond books/movies.Don't go into The Deep expecting another Jaws.
The first novel I ever read.
قاع المحيط شبيه بامرأة هوائية متقلبة تتغير طيلة الوقت ، يمكنك أن تفتش حطام سفينة فى يوم فلا تجد شيئا
The DeepBy Peter BenchleyA Honeymooning couple is diving off the coast of Bermuda when they come across a shipwreck and a small glass vial that will forever change their lives.
From there a man who doesn’t even exist officially tries to hire them to find more of the vials and soon the couple discovers what is so valuable, the small vials actually contain pure morphine.
The man who wrote this also wrote Jaws so I was excited to be able to write a review, it turns out I wasn’t disappointed.
يكفيني اسم بيتر بنشلي لأشترى الروايةلم يخيب ظنى أيضا هذة المرةبرغم أن هدف الرواية لا أخلاقي و النهاية أيضا لا أخلاقيةلكنها تحبس الأنفاس من فرط الإثارة !
At first I wasn't sure that I'd like this book, but as it went on, the elaborate story got more and more gripping. This book was really intriguing and definitely a fun one to read.
Jaws by Peter Benchley was made into a decent motion picture.The Deep,however,is fairly boring.
Imagine Dirk Pitt on his honeymoon with Congresswoman Smith. A sunken ship with treasure and drug smuggling.
Gail and David Sanders are honeymooning in Bermuda, enjoying the scuba diving.
They dive on a wreck near their hotel and come up with, among other things, a glass ampule filled with yellow liquid.
Word gets around the island quickly and the Sanders find themselves first being coaxed and then threatened for information.
Their only chance at surviving the local gang is working with Treece, a wreck diver who is after the Spanish treasure in the same spot.If you've read Benchley's Jaws, you would know why I began reading this one with more than a little scepticism.
Very calculated, well-written, and an excellent read for those who enjoy a Caribbean backdrop with a lot of diving and treasure hunting.
I absolutely loved the character Romer Treece and reading about diving/underwater archaeology culture.
I give this book my 5 stars with confidence, although the one thing I noted was that some of the dialogue was a bit fanciful at certain parts, but those lines were few and far apart and didn't take away from my enjoyment of the novel.
Although not as intensely thrilling as Jaws, I enjoyed it. From the storm in the beginning to touching on the history of Spanish treasure, made for an engaging read. In some ways I enjoyed the book more than the movie, simply because there was more character development. The fate of some of the characters was more appropriate, as opposed to Treece popping up at the end of the film just in time for some terrible disco music! I enjoyed getting to know more about the moray eel as well.
This was not what I was expecting. I was expecting more of a horror story, due to the inscription on the cover, "The terrifying new novel...". But it isn't a horror story, it's more of a thriller; and it was really good!
Peter benchleys novels almost always include a nautical theme (sharks, giant squids, boats and beaches) and he knows how to keep an authentic feel and pace. This book is a treasure hunt with all the twists and turns along the way. Great read and another classic from mr benchey
Much more interesting than the boring movie made from it, but still no Jaws. A solid effort worth a read, but not near as powerful.
I'm sure I confuse this with the movie off it very much, I do remember, however, that it was a huge disappointment after the suspense Jaws brought.
Deep dark scary good!
the ending just blew me away; otherwise, the sea was unchangedp272: military term for it's a shape charge.
Can't really explain why it is I loved this book so much...very similar to why I love the original poseidon adventure.
“One day you’ll realize you lost the moon by counting the stars.”When thirty-seven-year-old David Sanders and his twenty-eight-year-old bride Gail, decided on a Bermuda honeymoon, they did it for the pristine white beaches, clear blue skies, and the clear waters surrounding the islands; a perfect place to dive and explore its fascinating depths.
The book also supplies an uncanny glimpse into Bermuda, scuba diving, ship salvaging, and treasure hunting.Peter Benchley, is best known for his Great White tale if death, Jaws.
With this book, he travels into the mysterious depths of the sea in a quest for a strange treasure aboard the wooden three-masted cargo ship, Goliath.
I haven't read this one in twenty years or so (probably longer) and I remembered it being really good when I was young.
It still is really good, probably one of the best adventure novels I have read.
Most notable is Romer Treece, probably the best character Benchley created other than Quint himself.
up next and re-read that one, I know I have it downstairs in the basement somewhere...In short, THE DEEP is a fantastic adventure, and one of the best undersea ones ever.

Erittäin hyvä kirja! Tykkäsin todella siitä, miten rauhallisesti lopullista yhteenottoa rakennettiin. Tarina oli jännittävä pelkästään sen takia, kun odotti pahisten tulevan. Usein odotus on pahempi kuin varsinainen tapahtuma. Ja mitä vähemmän pahiksia näkyy, sitä kuumottavampia niistä tulee.Olisi hauskaa nyt nähdä tämän kirjan perusteella tehty elokuva. Edellinen kirja (Tappajahai) oli menestys ja leffa vielä suurempi sellainen. Omasta mielestä Tappajahai oli parempi elokuvana, koska kirjassa ollut kolmiodraama tuntui leffan katsottua hölmöltä juonenkäänteeltä. Voisin olla eri mieltä, jos olisin lukenut kirjan ensin. Syvyyden saalistajien kohdalla veikkaan kirjan olevan jännempi.
After watching the classic movie Jaws, I decided to read a novel from Peter Bentley.
This book is an underwater adventure that takes place in the Caribbean after an American honeymoon couple discovers a secret while SCUBA diving in the crystal blue sea.
The best part of the book is the description of the underwater oasis and the SCUBA diving.
This novel made me want to get my equipment and head to the ocean for some exploring.
I enjoyed the story, but the ending was so abrupt that it left me scratching my head.
"The Deep" is kind of slow at the start...you have to get through the introduction of the main characters and figure out what the story is really about. The cover art could lead you to believe that perhaps there is a "something" in "The Deep" akin to "Jaws"...but, not quite. What might you find resting on the bottom of the ocean off the coast of Bermuda? Rhymes with Heather (sort of?). Anyway, good novel...not great...not horrible. Sex, murder, and fun in the sun. What more can you ask for? Maybe a "Heather" map? Did I say too much?
