https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/164.The_Untouchables
I was more entertained than educated by "The Untouchables", which is hardly surprising when you consider that Ness was a publicity monger who recognized the value of a good story and enhanced the truth whenever it fell flat.
There are phone threats, drive-by shootings, and murders galore, despite the fact that the son of one Untouchable, Barney Cloonan, told Ness biographer Paul Heimel that they were rarely shot at.
Although Ness and the Untouchables did not take down the Capone mob as claimed in the popular media, they did damage the famous mobster's bootleg income, inconveniencing him financially.
Ness died just before "The Untouchables" hit print, making it a haunting as well as intriguing read.
Sommige personages krijgen niet eens een naam maar worden gewoon met hun roepnaam of koosnaam vermeld.Verander de “ik” in “hij” en je krijgt gewoon een geschiedkundig verslag over die 2,5 jaar.Och ja, ik zal dit niet gauw zeggen maar in dit geval was het een zegen dat men voor de film het scenario “verhollywoodiaanst” heeft en zich niet strikt aan het verhaal van Ness heeft gehouden.
I may be the only person in the Western Hemisphere to not have seen the movie, 'The Untouchables'. Even I'm surprised that I haven't seen more than a minute or two here and there. This type of story is right up my alley… why? Well, because it's a true story, real history- it takes place (I'm sure you know) during the Depression and Prohibition in gangster riddled and control Chicago.It was a great story. These men were exceptionally hard working and dedicated. What they accomplished was truly an amazing feat. I'm going to seek out more books in this.
Jacob Wirth This book is about Eliot Ness when he was just getting started into the Prohibition Bureau. It started out with him and his friend talking what to do about how to stop all the bootlegging and they came up with ideas. Eliot Ness came up with a great idea and his friend went to the chief and later on. “ I’m sorry, I can’t do that because the leader of this squad is going to have free hand-and not even I am going to tell you whom you should choose.”(Eliot Ness, 22) This quote show the f
Jacob Wirth	This book is about Eliot Ness when he was just getting started into the Prohibition Bureau.
Eliot Ness came up with a great idea and his friend went to the chief and later on.
“ I’m sorry, I can’t do that because the leader of this squad is going to have free hand-and not even I am going to tell you whom you should choose.”(Eliot Ness, 22) This quote show the first time they made the decision on who is going to be the leader of the team.
I would rate this book a 4 out of 5 because it had great detail and a good plot.
I had always wanted to know what it was really like during those times to see how the war was fought by those agents asigned to taking down Copone and his henchmen. What is also interesting to learn about those times was how much money those special agents were paid by the government compared to how much money Copone and his men were making, the difference is huge. Great cop and robber book of its time and I can see why each Eliot and his team of men went on to do bigger and better things in their lives.
Very interesting, first hand account of the bootlegging business in Chicago in the 20s and 30s. Easy read, read it in one day. Interesting to see how Capone, etc. were making so much cash they could offer bribes of $100,000 or more a year, a highly respectable salary even today.
Eliot Ness tells the story of how Justice finally caught up with Al Capone. Much better than the movie, Ness tells how he and his men really were untouchable by Capone or his gang. Though not acknowledged by Ness, it seemed clear that, for whatever reason, God's providential care was on this man.
I gave this book 5 stars even though it had a lot of language. It was an incredible read; I would have thought it was a fiction action-thriller if I didn't know better. Absolutely amazing that this is all true.
Ness radiates a kind of all-conquering goodness, enhanced with clever tactics and the loyalty of an equally incorruptible team.
But Ness's team is as determined to bust them as they are to make money and build power.
When the bootleggers adopt new tactics, Ness and his team figure out new ways to defeat them.
There is no mention of Edna Staley, who was actually Ness's wife during the time covered by the book.
We can only suspect that this cleaned-up version of his personal life is not the only cleaning up of the facts in the story that Ness tells.The story makes better reading if we accept that the truth may have suffered a bit, or more than a bit, in the telling.
I've been interested in reading the book the film was based on for years, and picked up Elliot Ness/Oscar Fraley's 1957 The Untouchables at a used book store recently.
While historical sources would indicate that some level of exaggeration or fabrication made its way into the novel, the story of young Elliot Ness' drive to address graft in the Chicago PD and Treasury Department's ranks, and subsequent targeting of Al Capone's criminal empire was fast-paced and gripping.
Step by step, first-person accounts of raids on distilleries call to mind Robin Moore's French Connection, and Ness' interactions with police recall Serpico.
Seems a little sensationalized, after all it was written by the man himself some time after all the events took place. It seems like a typical 1950s type documentary. But still interesting, especially so since I'm from nearby all the places where this took place and I grew up with stories of gangsters in Capone's mafia.
I gave up 50 pages in or so but I'm counting it as read because I feel like I know all I need to about it--this reads like a little boy writing a story about himself as a big strong detective. Fascinating story but I can.not.deal. with the writing.
Synopsis: The true story of the team which broke the Chicago mob as told by its leader. A great movie.
Fictional? Enjoyable lite read.
The airbrushed story of federal agent Eliot Ness, whose squad brought down Al Capone's illegal alcohol empire in depression-era Chicago.
Not nearly as good as a book about the attempt to bring down Al Capone could be.
I remember quite well trying to make sure I got to see every episode of "The Untouchables" way back when it was on the air.In my yard sale book finds this past weekend was this book, "The Untouchables" by Eliot Ness/Oscar Fraley and I just had to have it.
Well today, I had started reading another yard sale selection book by Joseph Wambaugh (can't even remember the title right now)and this evening, when I was going to sit down and read some more of that book, I couldn't find it.
I wanted to read up about the infamous Eliot Ness and his team of Federal Prohibition Agents known as 'The Untouchables' - so called because they were beyond the reach of the corruption and bribery spread throughout 1920s Chicago by Al Capone and his mobsters.I chose this book because it was written by the man himself.
So instead of reading an accurate (or at least, mostly accurate) account of true events I was left with poorly written 1950s thriller fiction in which Elliot Ness crows about how great he is.Personally I'd avoid if you're looking for an account of what actually happened to Al Capone
My love of the era was at it's peak by the time I checked this book out from my local library a few years back.
It's a good thing that a little time has passed because my review might have been a little cloudy if I were to give it then.
Having said that, the book is an average read.
The book was most certainly motivated as a quick cash grab for the people who couldn't get enough of the Al Capone/Bugs Moran stories that Ness most likely told from Chicago bar stools to whomever was willing to listen."The Untouchables" is only a must read for hardcore fans.
Synopsis: "The Untouchables is the gripping true story of the team of men who broke the back of the vicious Chicago crime mob and its stranglehold on the nation, told by the man who orchestrated the effort."My Review: I have a secret soft spot for mob books, I read Donnie Brasco's book in high school and since have rather enjoyed them.
It is written in such a way that it is more like reading a journal account than an actual story.
I enjoyed the book even though it wasn't quite as heart pounding as I expected, you would expect far more threats and shootouts from Al Capone.
The Untouchables is further proof that books are better than movies (unless we're talking about Jaws).
The movie was a favorite of mine; I even owned it.
But it sure feels weak after reading the book.
Loved reading about the raids and the need for ladders, the parade the Capone's organizations impounded vehicles, the driving around trying to lose tails and the telephone pole wire tap scene.
The book even lists addresses of the warehouses storing the booze or the still locations, which appeals to the Google maps loving dork that I am.
I don't often keep books I've read, but I think I'm making an exception with The Untouchables
1. Elliot Ness tries to give us a tatse of how the wicked mob grew to control Chicago and how Elliot Ness organized a small group of agents beyond corruption -- The Untouchables. 2. The book is short. The chapters are short. The sentences are short. Everything is to the point. 3. The book fills the bill. It has to be a first of it's genre. If you liked the TV series, you'll love the book.
This book is very good and so is the movie. its about the prohibition era and how alchol was very illegal but the crime groups sold it. In the streets of chicago italian gangs were running everything by scaring businesses to work for them and pay them or else they would get killed and a single man named Al Capone ran this whole process. This book is all about how a man named eliot ness who was a cop and he put together a force to bust Capone and his people doing all this crime.
This had to be read of course, after being a fan of the film for so long I couldn't resist this book when i found it in a charity shop. Its been a while since I read it, so this review might not be so helpful, but I remember it being quite nicely written and still intriguing historically.
This was an okay movie tie-in novel. The movie makes a great movie - - but this is far different from the actual book by Elliot Ness. Try reading that one.Merged review:This is the book. It tells the story of how Al Capone was brought down by the man who was responsible.
I really enjoyed the book but can't rate it higher as it is semi-fictional and misleads events in his personal life. That being said, the story of chasing Al Capone is a very good one and you can get a good idea of what led to his conviction.
Having seen the Kevin Costner movie, I wondered which parts of the story were true, and which were Hollywood. This book certainly answers that question, and there are many interesting stories that were not included in the movie.
Read very much like a crime report. Very dry. Had a few stories that I think were more inside jokes to Ness and his gang than the book.
read between fall 1974 & spring 1975
Awesome
