https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/849380.The_Seven_Principles_for_Making_Marriage_Work
If you begin to make changes in your schedule with respect to each other, or in little ways of doing things, you will be able to deal with each other a lot more easily.The sixth principle is "overcoming gridlock." Probably about 70% of the problems that a couple has together is a matter of deep fundamental differences you two have.
This is the real, deep stuff that one might call spiritual.Gottman provides a lot of activities and exercises throughout the way, little games that you can play with your partner or with other couples to improve and increase the strength of your relationship.

Early in my own marriage I took a series of parenting classes taught by our community's own black-belt of child raising, Linda Jessup.
At first I thought that statement was arrogant and far-fetched, but as I read, and remembered Linda's saying, plus the observations I've made of couples I know, I now think it's probably true.
I also liked the idea of "love maps" and the exercises which probe how much you know of the inner thoughts and history of your partner.I think Linda would approve of this book.
They observed how the couples talked to each other...the every day chit chat, the serious conversations and even the fights.
What they curiously observed is that fighting is not what breaks marriages up.
In fact, fighting can be good for marriages in some ways.What they did find is that in the couples who remained married and reported being happily married, there were elements of behavior present that aided in getting through disagreements and fights.
In the marriages that ended or were unhappy, there were elements that were also present that contributed to the breakdown of the relationship.I learned a lot from reading this book.
Marriage therapies based on conflict resolution share a very low success rate—over the long haul they only work about 20% of the time.So what does work?John Gottman is a marriage counselor who took a different approach and started to collect rigorous scientific evidence on over 650 couples, tracking the fate of their marriages for up to fourteen years.
However, all these satisfied couples also practiced seven principles, even if they didn’t know it, which helped them navigate their way through all the difficulties and keep their marriages happy and stable.And it’s not just opinion.
I know why.")Some of the highlights:* Distinction between perpetual and solvable problems in marriages; most problems fall in the "perpetual" (unresolvable) category and are often a rehashing of some fundamental personal and marital issues that need to be carefully addressed.* Happily married couples can have significant disagreements and arguments; it's the way these arguments are conducted (maintaining respect, avoiding criticism, being willing to be influenced by your spouse) that matters.
It's just not the kind of marriage book that inspires me.
It is too much of "do this and don't do this" rather than providing inspiration and perspective on marriage.
Some of the exercises look like fun and/or helpful and I do think this book could really be good if a couple sat down and did it together.
I like the part where he talks about how happily married couples don't necessarily have to "solve" every problem and that clear communication (i.e. using "I" statements) is not necessarily the key to marital bliss.
There were some good parts...
So, although I might be putting the cart before the horse, I really like to get things right!As far as self-help/relationship books go, this is of the caliber that I like best -- based on years of sound research with a proven track record.
While some of it seems like common sense, some of it is surprising: such as the finding that some VERY common relationship advice (such as the importance of active listening, needing to share common interests, etc.) doesn't actually have the track record to back it up.
Why is it considered normal to consult a manual and put work into maintaining a car, but not a relationship?This book can be pretty cheesey a lot of the time, but it contains lots of exercises, is easy to read, and is based on principles and evidence that is highly regarded in the field (which surprised me).From his experimental "love lab", Gottman observed tons of couples that worked and didn't.
His findings inform the book.
Dr. John Gottman became famous for his work in Seattle's "Love Lab," a research apartment wired with cameras he used to observe how volunteer couples communicated with one another.
Through his observations, Gottman discovered patterns of communication that correlate with lasting relationships.
Among Gottman’s observations was that the frequency of a couple’s fights had less to do with relationship success than other factors including whether or not they had compatible styles of dealing with conflict, whether the partners engaged in certain destructive communication behaviors Gottman labeled "the four horsemen of the apocalypse," and how successful partners were in responding to what he calls breakdown "repair attempts." It’s been a while since I read this book, but I recall it as having a lot of useful, down-to-earth information for improving communication in intimate relationships.
الكتاب عبارة عن خلاصة لمجموعة من الأبحاث والتجارب العملية التي قام بها المؤلف على مجموعة من الأزواج المتطوعين داخل معمله الذي أطلق عليه اسم معمل الحب. ومن هذه التجارب التي سردها استخلص ٧ مبادئ لانجاح الزواج. يحتوي الكتاب على الكثير من التمارين التي يستطيع الأزواج القيام بها معا.
Saying 'poor baby' and then resorting to gossip and unifying hateful statements (I'm not making this up, this really is in the book) just to strengthen a connection between two people sounds like enmeshment/fusion and flat out immaturity to me.
This strengthening the connection between the spouses notion gets repeated in his advice on dealing with in-law tensions; he asserts that the solution to this common conflict is "for the husband to side with his wife against his mother"...adding that one of the basic tasks of marriage is to establish a sense of "we-ness between the husband and wife.
I first read about Gottman's marriage research in Maclom Gladwell's Blink. Since I am interested in all things social science, I picked up this book at the library. The content is interesting and applicable, even if some/much of it feels common sense. The biggest downfall of the book is Gottman's egoistic prose. (He  has been at the forefront of research in his field - and I would have believed him the first time he mentioned it.)
I haven't read a lot of marital counselling books, yet I feel good about claiming that this one is the best one out there. This has been one of the most enlightening and thought-provoking books I've ever read. The best part is: It's simple and practical. He doesn't dwell on complext theories of romantic love and its components--he focuses on what's been shown to make marriages work.
Please read that book if you are in a relationship! If you really think you are really good at it, you are not! Your relationship might die if you don't work on it. So please make yourself a favor and learn how you can get better.
This is not just a book for professionals, its for anyone who wants to make their marriage stronger.
John and Julie Gottman have spent over 40 years researching, writing about, and working with couples, and they are the hallmark of what they do - creating marriages that last and sustain.
But this is one of those books a person grows with, just because.This is also my June Decathlon Pick - I have been married for 22 years this September, and the last decade has been all about this partnership and my family.
I am teaching ten weeks of couples counseling and am loving it.
I think the takeaway is that Austin and I are incredibly compatible!
Instead, you need to understand the bottom-line difference that is causing the conflict between you- and learn how to live with it by honoring and respecting each other."Makes me think of the advice: I didn't marry you because I though you would one day become just like me, I married you because you are you!Principle One: "...intimately familiar with each other's world....They remember the major events in each others history, and they keep updating their information as teh facts and feelings of their spouses world changes....They know each others goals in life, each others worries, each other's hopes." one way to keep this up is to choose sets of questions like "What is your dream for 5 yrs" or "what is your favorite meal" and ask each other on a date night.Principle Two: "By simply reminding yourself of your spouse's positive qualities- even as you grapple with each other's flaws- you can prevent a happy marriage from deteriorating.
Matt's reading this for class, and though it's a secular book, he says it's really pretty fantastic.
It's based on years of in-depth scientific research and doesn't just theorize potential trendy ways to re-phrase things and thereby "improve communication" in a marriage.
I mostly skipped those, but found the book affirming of my marriage (which I had already believed to be fairly healthy, but of course every marriage takes work and can take steps to be strengthened) and also comforting, encouraging.
Whether it be a great, healthy relationship or a marriage that is about to break - and anything in between.

Lots of good and helpful insight. I have been wanting to read this since I first read about John Gottman in Malcolm Gladwell's Blink. With 98% accuracy, Gottman can predict whether or not a couple will divorce after watching them interact for just fifteen minutes.My favorite quote about successful couples: "In their day-to-day lives, they have hit upon a dynamic that keeps their negative thoughts and feelings about each other (which all couples have) from overwhelming their positive ones. They have what I call an emotionally intelligent marriage.”
The author thinks rather highly of himself and his research, but as annoying as his attitude is, he does make some excellent points. I've been married for almost eleven years, and while I consider my marriage to be quite healthy, I definitely found this book to be helpful and informative.
This man is a genius. He can predict divorce with a 93% accuracy rate in FIVE MINUTES.
As I read The Seven Principles, I could not only see all of the areas that this marriage with Sean is glowing; I saw where my first marriage failed beyond abuse.
Because I review everything I read, Sean and I always do the exercises in any given book.
So, yes, there are cases where they all can be resolved in a marriage.If you're looking for help, and your spouse is on board, this is a good book to look into.
The Seven Principles, while I have some disagreements, is a good book for healthy and unhealthy marriages alike.
This book provided me powerful insights on my relationship with my fiance.
I would love to read it again in a couple years once we have been married for sometime because I felt like there were some items that I personally couldn't relate to not having been married yet or having children yet.
The only thing I didn't like about this book is the amount of time the author spent talking about himself.
I ended up glancing over those parts since I found them irrelevant to what I wanted to get out of reading this book.
This is a great book for anyone in any relationship/ marriage. It has good exercises to strengthen your marriage and to learn more about each other and how to best handle conflict. I wish I had read this book when it was first published many years ago.On a side note, I've been subscribed to the Gottman Institute Marriage Minute email for quite a while and I highly recommend that too.
I'm not a fan of marriage books.
I liked that he pretty much defies traditional relationship therapy practices which I have always found irksome and off the mark.
Finally someone articulated the vague sense of absurdity I felt about the "old style." Gottham was a little overconfident in his ability to predict a marriage failure in just a few minutes of hearing a couple's conversation, and his descriptions of fail predictors made me feel like my marriage was doomed, even though it didn't seem that bad before I read the book.
I like the check-lists and workbook type style.
I'm forced to conclude that either this is deliberately pandering to the heteronormative ownership paradigm, like these are the terms he feels he has to use with his target audience, or that John Gottman himself is an emotionally retarded weirdo.Overall I get the feeling that this is intended for the sort of people who get into screaming matches with their partners in Wal-Mart parking lots because they bought the wrong brand of bottled water, and you only did it because you don't care about me, you're just like your drunk of a father and you're going to die alone, I hate you etc.
He also talks about how nearly all of the time the tone that *opens* a conversation is the same tone as ends it (so if you start out a conversation with your partner angry and accusatory, you aren't likely to get much accomplished).He introduces the concept of "emotional bids" - the thousands of little words and gestures we make throughout each day asking for emotional connection.
The concept of the emotional bid is helpful in understanding *why* deep friendship and *little* moments like reading the paper together can make your relationship so strong.
Most of these strategies focus onvalidating your partner's perspective and learning to be a goodlistener.
There's nothing wrong with this--except that it's very hardfor most people to do at any time, much less when they're distressedIt's just a factthat people can change only if they feel that they are basically likedand accepted as they are.
When people feel criticized, disliked, andunappreciated they are unable to change.
