https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/59721.Vineland
‘I’m not some pure creature,’ Frenesi agonises at one point, during a painful imagined break-up with a girlfriend who put her on the usual pedestal – ‘you know what happens when my pussy’s runnin' the show…’ It’s a dynamic played out in almost all his books, but the collateral resonances are nowhere made more obvious, the D/S overtones in her submission to Brock prefiguring something essential about what happened to her whole generation:Brock Vond’s genius was to have seen in the activities of the sixties left not threats to order but unacknowledged desires for it.There’s the whole novel in a sentence.
So when you think of Pynchon you think of serious work, right? And trudgery and difficulty and obfuscation and pedanticism, and like this dizzying thing that just makes you feel unintellectual and slow for never being able to catch up, right? Well if that is the case, you have never read  Vineland . Because oh. my. god. This book is so fucking good.I'm not going to try to summarize or anything, because this book is too sprawling and reeling, and anyway that would be an afront to its amazingness.
And trudgery and difficulty and obfuscation and pedanticism, and like this dizzying thing that just makes you feel unintellectual and slow for never being able to catch up, right?
I mean look, this book is tough, for sure, and I won't try to claim that I understood everything, but honestly it just doesn't matter.
I was so sure he was going to do something horrible, leaving everything messy and unfulfilling, end things like right in the middle of a sentence or something, but no!
The ending was beautiful, just like the rest of the book, totally satisfying and wonderful.

The novel transports him back to California, the country he has often visited, even lived in, but wh
If Three Should Be FiveI first read “Vineland” some time in the 90’s. Based on an imperfect recollection of it, I rated it three stars when I joined GoodReads. I’ve raised my rating to five stars, partly because of how much fun I had reading it a second time.I can’t think of a better novel to read between now and when we emerge safely into the Post-Trump era. Reprise and Foreshadow“Vineland” reprises the longing and quest for an absent woman that was at the heart of  “V”  (in this case, the daug

But I also don’t usually allow myself to read more than one of an author’s works within a calendar year (many books, little time, etc.
Ruggs, you magnificant bastard, I hope you know how many personal rules I’m violating because you’re the first time since auspiciously picking up my first collection of Bukowski poems that I’ve been able to add a This Writer Changed My Life For Always notch to my literary bedpost.
Reading “Vineland” confirmed what “Gravity’s Rainbow” left me suspecting: I bloody love Thomas Pynchon.
Rilly.Finishing “Gravity’s Rainbow” left me with an almost obscene urge to help myself to another serving of Pynchon, which is an urge I’ve been fighting for months now.
è come provare, leggendo, l’effetto di una sbornia di tetris (nella vita 1 fui nel tunnel, so di cosa parlo).
ci si lascia travolgere dal beato effetto di spaesamento lisergico, sedurre dalla prosa, coinvolgere dal riconoscimento di quel che di vero c’è dietro ogni sparata sugli ideali infrantisi nel decennio reaganiano.non so se anche pynchon alla lunga provochi un ispessimento della corteccia nei lobi frontali, e un ampliamento delle facoltà cognitive e del pensiero razionale.
però so di sicuro che, come taglia corto quel fallimentare big lebowski che è lo zoyd wheeler di questo romanzo, «finché è durata, ci siamo divertiti un mondo».
Gravity's Rainbow is the flashy intellectual you date for a few months before discovering his/her pretensions to be vaguely problematic long-term; Vineland (like Zoyd) is the partner you keep around for while, who cuddles you at night and makes fancy herbal tea. I'll stay friends with Gravity's Rainbow always, but Vineland hit me really hard and my allegiance is to the latter - as a more accessible, beautifully-written but nonetheless still-Deleuzian brain fuck of healthy proportions.
While not for me his strongest book, Vineland shows very Pychonian characters trying to work out their relationships to each other. There is even a big Hollywood style ending (probably a pastiche/parody) to the story. I found that the backdrop was less the chaos and anarchy that I appreciated in Gravity's Rainbow, Mason&Dixon and Against the Day and so I appreciated this one less than those. I would put it low in the Pychon canon but still suggest that it is worth reading for his insights into California hippyism which are often hilarious and sometimes poignant.
After having read everything that preceded Pynchon's fourth novel, it's still difficult for me to wholeheartedly disagree, even though I thoroughly enjoyed some parts of it.
It made me laugh...but even though I wasn't an avid fan when it was published in 1990, I still couldn't help wonder why this was the book that Pynchon decided to put out there seventeen years after Gravity's Rainbow.
Pynchon's tone and style seem weak throughout, making Vineland sound, at times, like someone ghostwriting for him.
Καθώς διάβαζα άλλο ένα απίθανο βιβλίο του Pynchon αυτό που είχα συνέχεια στο μυαλό μου ήταν τι εντύπωση θα μου έκανε αν το διάβαζα σε real time, το 1990, ως το βιβλίο που κυκλοφόρησε ο συγγραφέας μετά από 17 χρόνια σιωπής που ακολούθησαν το αξεπέραστο Ουράνιο Τόξο.
Ίσως βέβαια ο Pynchon να το παρακάνει με τις εναλλαγές αφού κάπου στα μισά το Vineland μοιάζει ένα πολύ μπερδεμένο κουβάρι αλλά το καταπληκτικό φιναλε δικαιολογεί μάλλον τα πάντα.Δεν θα πω τίποτα παραπάνω, απίθανο βιβλίο, ανώτερο του IVΥ.Γ.
Video-review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0D5iB...Unjustly considered a happy-go-lucky slapstick comedy of a novel, Vineland is in fact quite dark and bitter in its potrait of what went wrong with the 60s. There's humor, sure, but lots of capital E Evil too. A novel of ideas more than character, more I think than any other Pynchon's, it might work well as a starting point for those looking to pop their Pynchon cherry, although I still believe Inherent Vice works better.
«Watch the paranoia, please!»This was my third go at trying to gradually voyage through Pynchon's oeuvre, having read Lot 49 and Inherent Vice before.
We follow numerous characters that were involved in various ways with the events of that time, and we see how they are affected by the consequences and aftermath of that era, and we get numerous flashbacks to the turbulent events of their younger days.There's a lot of trademark Pynchonian quirky humor and absurdity in here.
There's not really a single leading character, and we instead change between numerous people whose own backstories and sub-plots are expounded.In my eyes, I do feel that Pynchon tackles many of the same themes of this book in a slightly more engaging way in Inherent Vice.
What I love about Pynchon's writing is the way he moves from the comedic to the lyrical to the strange in a single sentence.
Pynchon's writing, when addressing this idea of a community of love without rules or governors, becomes indescribable, dripping with aching desire, yet acknowledging that perhaps such a vision was never possible in the first place.
Vineland is a bleak novel at times, presenting with almost ruthless cyncism the schemes of the agents who exploited the youth rebellion for their own aims.
Coming down from a sort of high after reading Mason & Dixon about a month ago, I had pretty high expectiations going into this one.
As usual Pynchon has a lot of sub-plots going on, characters disappearing and then coming back into the story again almost at random, and characters coming into the book but you never actually see them ever again.
I don't think I've ever read anyone who writes in a similar vein; it's really remarkable at times.
It's not as brilliant as Mason & Dixon but hardly a failure of a book either.
Very much Pynchon, and well worth reading!
Semplicemente perché se amo leggere lo devo ad autori come lui, capaci di raccontare mondi, generazioni, culture, cambiamenti, mode, paure e chi più ne ha più ne metta, in maniera visionaria, illuminante e poliedrica, sempre.Fatta questa necessaria premessa posso parlare di Vineland in particolare.Vineland è il nome di una piccola città della California del nord, dove hanno luogo gran parte degli eventi descritti.
La loro esistenza viene sconvolta nuovamente da Brock Vond, uomo del governo, che negli anni ’60 ha sedotto la moglie di Zoyd, Frenesi, e l'ha trasformata da hippie in informatrice dell'Fbi. Frenesi, però, è scomparsa e Brock vuole usare la figlia per ritrovarla.
For as big of a fall from Pynchon's first three novels as it is, and for as massive as an improvement as follow-ups were, it's hard to really stay mad at Vineland.
and The Crying of Lot 49 were fine novels in their own right, they also seem to function as lead-ups to Gravity's Rainbow, far and away the peak of early-period Pynchon, and arguably all of Pynchon's career, although Mason and Dixon puts up a good challenge in that regard.
And the TV subplot is a little too "WAKE UP, SHEEPLE" for my liking.Still, isn't a fundamental part of Pynchon's charm in the fact that he walks the line between genius and kook?
Has anyone else ever employed such loopy, labyrinthine, lovely language to tell such weird and wackily written tales? I think not.
Vineland by Thomas PynchonPublished: 1990format: 385 page paperbackacquired: 2007 from the annual Houston Public Library book sale read: Sep 9-23rating: 3 stars Back when I bought this I had only a vague idea of who Pynchon was.
There is a nice review here) But, I'm reading all of Pynchon (maybe) and this was next.
Mason & Dixon was in progress and Vineland was maybe something extra Pynchon did as he worked through that.
The novel begins with Zoid, who lives cooped up in the forests of northern California, supported by government checks for a faked mental instability the requires him to annually jump through a window.
'Vineland' is a singular novel, the first by Pynchon that I've read.
The writing style is distinctive, though, with rambling paragraph-sentences constantly sliding into lists.
I'm not quite sure whether I enjoyed 'Vineland'.
The interwoven life stories of the characters are interesting, plus I appreciate Pynchon's distinctive naming scheme.
Her former partner DL is the most appealing of the bunch, although her story veers off into magical realism rather.
As a novel it is effective, albeit dense and rather odd.
I know Ernie Triggerman.
Yeah and Ernie's been waiting years for the big Nostalgia Wave to move along to the sixties, which according to his demographics is the best time most people from back then are ever going to have in their life — sad for them maybe, but not for the picture business.
First, the plot is ridiculous.
Pynchon is one politically pissed-off and paranoid dude.
The result is that characters act as they should not; indeed, could not.
Plenty of reviewers have made the point, however, that one doesn't read Pynchon for the plot.
Well, why read him?Because the writing is brilliant.
I didn't care how the story ended.
After tangent after segue after tangent and another morphing tangent, who could care.
You either drop Pynchon after 50 pages or you hang on for the ride.
Paragraphs and dialogue are thrown against the wall, pyrotechnics like abstract art.
I read this when it first came out and I have to say I enjoyed it even more the second time through!Will write more later, but I will say, a good read to contrast with our new world of internet espionage.
And it's about something, which I guess a book doesn't have to be, but personally, I reeeeaallllly don't feel like Pynchon is nearly as good at writing about nothing as everyone seems to think he is.
(Someone complained in a review that it doesn't capture Humboldt County very well, but I disagree: I don't think anyone's written about the feeling of morning in the redwoods as exactly as Pynchon.) Maybe there's just too much Prairie in me to trust the rest of what he's written like I trust Vineland, but it's a human book, I guess.

When I was getting a PhD in English, I refused to read Pynchon because I thought the last thing the world needed was another book by a modernist author who trying to be more difficult than Joyce.Then I picked up Vineland out of a bargain bin, and realized it was probably the funniest thing I had ever read. Pynchon is an incredible comic writer.
(There's also a way to undo the vibrating palm, as it happens.)Engaged gender politics, such as the presentation of Sedgewick's homosociality thesis, as when the novel's obscure object of desire is told by her fascist lover that she is "the medium [leftist lover] and [fascist lover] use to communicate, that's all, this set of holes, pleasantly framed, this little femme scampering back and forth with scented messages tucked in her little secret places" (214).
Τρελοί χαρακτήρες, τρελή πλοκή, με πολλά flashbacks κατά τη διάρκεια όλου του βιβλίου και χωρίς προειδοποίηση, αν δεν προσέχεις λίγο, μπορεί να μην καταλάβεις τίποτα, το σίγουρο, όμως, είναι ότι μερικά πράγματα δεν θα τα καταλάβεις έτσι και αλλιώς, οπότε το θέμα είναι να μην το "χάσεις" όλο το βιβλίο.
Η γραφή καταπληκτική, φαινόταν, αλλά η μετάφραση όχι τέλεια, και μερικές λέξεις, μερικές αναφορές σε διάφορα πράγματα που αφορούν τις ΗΠΑ, δεν εξηγούνταν σε σημειώσεις, όπως σε άλλα βιβλία, αλλά τ'άφηνε έτσι...
Vineland is Pynchon somewhere between the grandiose chaos of Gravity's Rainbow and the loopiness of Inherent Vice.
The connection is Gordita Beach, where Doc Sportello himself probably caught a few gigs of The Corvairs with Shasta Fay at his side.
Mucho Maas from The Crying of Lot 49 makes a cameo as well.
I think that V.
had a guy jumping through plate-glass window for kicks but I can't be sure.
I can't be sure of anything anymore...
There is a lot in Vineland to admire.
The plot is Pynchonesque, obviously, but never too hard to follow.
Probably not the best Pynchon I have read, but what certainly could be my favorite. A fun romp through 80's paranoia with incredibly drawn characters and a pretty linear plot. This was my 4th Pynchon in a little over a year, and next to DFW, he is probably my favorite discovery from GR. Vineland would be a great entry point into the world of Pynchon. It's not too heavy, but it is incredibly written and at times laugh out loud funny. And it even has a sweet ending. Tremendous fun!
