https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77034.Mama_s_Bank_Account
It is little more than a series of vignettes, but they are realistic as well as heart-warming and not unduly sentimental.It tells the story of the hardscrabble existence of a Norwegian immigrant family in San Francisco in the early years of the 20th Century.
Papa is a good man and a hard worker, but it is "Mama's" force of character and indomitable love which holds the family together.I'm a big fan of the George Stevens' movie and especially of the luminous performance of a forty-nine-year-old Irene Dunne as "Mama" Marta Hanson.
Sometimes when I am down I long for the era of polite books for grownups - books that don't need sex, violence, heartbreak, or 50-cent metaphors to entertain. Forbes' memoiresque style is sweet as she shares the travails of a Norwegian immigrant family in San Francisco. The title story is the nicest. Big thanks to the librarian who stuck this old book club edition (sternly marked No Renewals with a long-ago stamp) on the end-cap display for me to find. There is something friendly about paper so old the edges are soft.
I was impressed throughout the novel by Mama's common sense, wisdom, love, and work ethic.Mama is definitely the kind of mother that I hope I can be to my children.I really love books written during this time period.
'Is good,' Mama said, and Papa nodded approvingly.'It will cost a little money,' Nels said.Eagerly we brought up chairs and gathered around the table.
'We do not,' she reminded us gently, 'want to have to go to the Bank.'We all shook our heads.'I will work in Dillon's grocery shop after school,' Nels volunteered.Mama gave him a bright smile and laboriously wrote down a sum and added and subtracted.
This was such a PLEASANT book to read! Thanks to my sister for sharing her copy with me. It was the most basic story of human love and kindness displayed by a mother towards her family. Amazing how a little love and guidance can go such a long way! Required reading in my opinion!!
Delightful! I was humbled by how patiently, yet determinedly, this mother worked toward solutions for her family's needs. She sacrificed, but without feeling martyred. Very memorable...
"I Remember Mama" is one of my Mom's favorite movies. She bought me a copy of it and for some reason I have not watched it yet. I came across this book that was the inspiration for the movie and play and tv series. I loved it! My Dad's father is from Norway, so I loved that Mama and Papa are from Norway. The stories are sweet and memorable. Love feel good books. I read some of it to my husband and he enjoyed it as well.
I read this aloud to the kids for school.
I thought it was a great book!
The kids really seemed to enjoy it too.
It's about a Norwegian immigrant family living in San Fransisco during the early 1900s.
It's written from the perspective of Katryn, one of the daughters, and it's based on her own life.
The warmth and family love make this book something special.
"Mama" is a key character of each chapter and her resourcefulness, determination, and compassion really shine.
I highly recommend this story.
It's sort of like Little House on the Prairie -- Norwegian style.
This was a enjoyable read. I had watched "I Remember Mama" many years ago and don't really remember it much, but reading this book brought back little memories. Yet it was so much more than that. It is the story of a family. It wasn't a perfect family, and they didn't always agree, but what family does? Each chapter is a little story all its own, yet they build on the others to create a lovely tale.
I fell in love with this book in the first chapter. I didn't want to put it down. I enjoy sweet stories full of good family values. Mama reminded me of my grandmother. I was teary eyed by the end of most of the chapters. I read several chapters out loud to Dax, and he enjoyed them. I came across this title, when looking for something similar to A Tree Grows in Brooklyn. The writing is much simpler than Tree, but for me, I think the story is just as good.
I had to spend some time in the ER and just happened to have this book in my purse. I read it in three hours while waiting for test results. The perfect book to read then. It's loving, sweet, funny, homey and wonderful reading. I loved every page.
To quote Katrin's dear mother, "Is good. Is very good." I loved the tales of her and her Norwegian family as they grew up in San Francisco, with the security of their parent's love, and Mama's Bank Account! It deserves every star.
I really enjoyed this easy read. My only complaint...the end didn't feel right to me.
If you want to feel warm and fuzzy about the little things that make life BIG, this book is for you!
Definitely a feel good book. Loved the stories and loved Mama!
I absolutely adored it!
The characters and their adventures are all so sweet, the family is delightful, and it's adorable to see the children grown up as the story progresses.
The whole thing is written in what I would call vignettes rather than a linear story, with each chapter being a little story in itself (the story keeps progressing forwards though).
Every vignette or chapter is so endearing that you just have to keep reading!Definitely give it a go, it's free after all ;-)You can find a scan of the book on archive.org here.
A Norwegian immigrant family growing up in San Francisco. It's a delightful story of a delightful family.
March 22, 2016: I found the TV program I mention at the end of this 2012 review.
In a series of short, witty stories, Ms. Forbes takes the immigrant Mama and Papa and their American-born children through the years of the children's growing-up into their young adulthood.
Despite its shortness, the book has unity over a long span of time --- long because measured by the children's growing up.
I wonder if the program is on DVD now.)
A DELIGHTFUL READ.“Her disposition became, if possible , even meaner, and her vocabulary consisted entirely of cat expletives.”—page 162Kathryn Forbes’s fictionalized memoirs, ‘Mama’s Bank Account,’ is a collection of engaging, charming and heart-warming stories from a simpler time and place; 1920s, in s San Francisco boarding house.Recommendation: An enjoyable read for all ages.“Life is good,” she said contentedly. “Life is so good.”—page 176Harcourt, Brace & World, Inc., hardcover edition, 204 pages.
A short book published in 1945 about a Norwegian immigrant family living in San Francisco. Short stories of a family with an endearing mother who keeps everyone from worrying about the hard times they live in by often referring to her mysterious bank account. Perfect if you're looking for something you can read in a single afternoon, this bestselling book inspired the play, movie, and long running TV show I Remember Mama.
A fascinating look at a sweet, intelligent, well-meaning Norwegian family. If you are a good mother, or you had a good mother, you will love this book. I teared up several times reading about this good woman. It is a quick, short read and well worth it. These are the kind of good quality people that make America what it is today. Good parents raising kids with values. A lesson for us all.
Thoroughly enjoyable! I wasn't sure I'd like the short chapters but Mama's personality was so outsized, it made up for the scanty text!
I read this book for a class I am taking and I wasn't expecting to enjoy this at all. I read the synopsis and it sounded like nothing happened in this book. Well.... nothing did really happen in this book, but PLOT TWIST... I didn't mind it. I was entertained just by the author's narrative. It was interesting and empowering. I was never bored throughout this book and I devoured it. So I was proven wrong and I recommend you read it to and let me know what you think about it!
Pleasant collection of short stories. Similar vibe to A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, minus the drunk dad. Reading it made me want to go watch the movie I Remember Mama again. Sweet movie & sweet book.
Just as good as the movie. And having a Norwegian husband helps :)
This was a fun book to read with a neat storyline.
ASE book
It's a collection of memoirs/stories/stories based on memoirs written by a daughter about her family, recent immigrants to San Francisco.
This was so popular when it was published that a movie and then a TV series were based on it, although I have seen neither.Grade: B+Recommended: This is a little on the bland side, but it made a great book discussion book because it was such a good jumping off point to talk about the immigrant experience and that particular time period, and provided lots of fodder for people to compare it to other books with similar themes as well as more personal family experiences.
I love this little book.
It is sweet and simple about a wonderful family.
Each story could be its own family home evening and I don't think that is a bad thing.
I wish more books like this were written about a functional happy family.
I still love the story of Kathryn stealing the candy.
To me, it is the perfect book.
So, I just read this book again- in just one sitting.
A book I can read over and over again with continual delight.
I especially love the story of how her mother handles Karyn stealing candy from the general store.
This is a sweet story of a Norwegian family living in San Francisco.
Both the cultural and language barriers make for plenty of humor.Mama knows that her children must feel safe and secure, so each payday she exclaims that there is plenty of money and no reason to go to the bank to hit up their savings account.
Actually, there is no bank account.
Mama has never even been inside a bank!
Yet, this mama knows what to say and do to instill confidence, integrity, and love of family in her children.I watched the movie, "I Remember Mama", many times when I was young.
Mama's Bank Account tells the story of how a Norwegian mother Americanizes her family with her charm and understanding.
Many issues are touched on such as, finances, family relationships, and assimilation.
The last story in the novel takes place 10 years after the first story and shows how the next generation assimilates.
There would be so many issues to deal with such as cultural and economic.
I remember one chapter in the story when Mama has the wisdom to create a fictional bank account in order to simmer the family's concerns on money.
