https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15581.Ferdydurke
Be prepared to embrace your immaturity as Gombrowicz attacks so-called 'maturity' and exposes it as a fraud in this story about an aspiring author who is reduced to back to his childish teenage self before a former professor and brought back to school.
Gombrowicz toys with the absurbed as he delivers a hilarious blend of comedy, political and social satire, literature and psychological critique and the question of identity all while exposing man as an immature being.While Gombrowicz is considered a major figure in Polish and Eastern European literature, and his first novel, Ferdydurke, is considered one of his foremost novels, it wasn't until the later stages of his career, however, that Gombrowicz's genius became widely recognized.
I maintain, on the contrary, that the more dull and narrow-minded they are, the more urgent and compelling are their opinions, just as an ill-fitting shoe hurts us more than a well-fitting one.”And the judgments of the oafs prevail and Ferdydurke is the world seen through the eyes of idiots.“Normality is a tightrope-walker above the abyss of abnormality.
How much potential madness is contained in the everyday order of things?”And seen with the eye of a talented ignoramus the ordinary social stereotypes and customs become preposterous and our regular behavioral patterns turn ludicrous.
Gereğinden fazla değerli...Böyle yazdığımı gören kitabın yazarı buna da iki cümle dizerdi.Kitapların bazıları vardır ki, mimarisi güzel birçok katı olan meskenlere benzerler, hangi katta oturmak istediğiniz size bağlı.Fakat en üstteki katlar modernitenin size sunduğu görsellik karmaşasından dolayı sizi yanıltır, bir şeylerin sahibi olduğunuzu ve çoşkunluğun suni hissiyatını size tattırır. Halbuki alttaki derinliğe indikçe bekleyenler, sizi şaşırtacaktır. İşte böyle bir kitap olan ferdydurke'nin
Gereğinden fazla değerli...Böyle yazdığımı gören kitabın yazarı buna da iki cümle dizerdi.Kitapların bazıları vardır ki, mimarisi güzel birçok katı olan meskenlere benzerler, hangi katta oturmak istediğiniz size bağlı.Fakat en üstteki katlar modernitenin size sunduğu görsellik karmaşasından dolayı sizi yanıltır, bir şeylerin sahibi olduğunuzu ve çoşkunluğun suni hissiyatını size tattırır.
İşte böyle bir kitap olan ferdydurke'nin katlarını indikçe başka bir derinlik, başka bir aydınlık ile karşılaşacaksınız.
Hemen ardından müthiş bir yaşamın dizininden biçimselliğin aynasına baktığınızı göreceksiniz.
Yazar kitapta; Bilincinden dürtülerine, kaygılarından çağrışımlarına, yaşama isteğinden istememene, çoşkunluğundan hiçciliğine, Tanrı'ndan Tanrı'sızlığına, ahlakından ahlak karşıtlığına ve düşünebileceğin hemen her şeyin Biçim olgusunun ürünü olduğunu okura ispatlama çabasına girişir.
Avrupa, Duçe ve Führer’lerin velhasıl büyük adamların kitleleri olgunlaşmamış böcekler gibi ezdiği, şekillendirdiği, kişiliklerini yok edip yeni kişilikler kazandırdığı ayakları altında bilim, modernite ve ilerlemenin bayrakları ile eziliyor.İşte bu ahval ve şeriat içinde bir türlü olamamış bir yazar Joseph kowolski ( Dava’nın bir sabah suçlu bulunan Joseph K’sına bir gönderme) uyandığı uykusundan bir ergen olarak kalkıyor, sonrası olaylar olaylar..Yıllar önce Pornografi’si ile tanışıp niyeyse devamını getirmediğim Gombrowicz dünyasına geçen yıl Ferdydurke ile dönüş yaptım ve nasıl bu kadar süre ıskaladım diye hala dert yanarım.
Şöyle yüzeyden bakarsanız 16 yaşına uyanan 30 yaşında bir yazar önce bir okula kaydedilir, bir arkadaşı ile okuldan kaçar teyzesinin taşradaki evine sığınır ve oradan da teyzesinin kızı ile kaçar gibi görünse de hiç de böyle değil.
Aslında hiçbir kalıba sığmayan ama hakkında çok şey söylenebilecek bir eser.
kitabın iki yerinde bir es vermiş yazar önsözü ile birlikte.
Kitaba bir simetri bir temel kurarak yapıyı ayakta tutmuş yoksa o kadar esnek bir yapı ki nerden tutacağınızı bilemiyorsunuz adeta.Kitabın isminin doğru tellafuzunu da epeyce aradım bunun yanında ne anlama geldiğini de kitap boyunca görür müyüm diye ümitlendim ama yok.
Okyanus diplerindeki ışıksız ortam ucubelerinin güzelliği var bunda demek isterken beni alıkoyuveren bir şey tarafından şunu demeye zorlanıyorum:Dis iz Ferdidurka! Childish Gombrino yapmış yapacağını. Bunu demezsem, yani ciddi ciddi, okur okur, tumturaklı tumturaklı, altını çize çize konuşursam, bu kitabın kafa bulduğu, tiye aldığı, maytap geçtiği tiplerden biri olarak kendi kendimin koca :Popolu bir karikatürüne dönüşeceğim. Astarım yüzümden pahalıya çıkacak :P Bye.
This book is a failure, a good idea, and some interesting moments but overall the book never lives up to it's potential, and the reader (well that would be me), thinks Rabbit Updike is a fucking idiot, who once again sounds like a paid spokesperson for a book instead of an honest critic, or someone with an honest opinion.
I've said it, I don't like this book and I don't like John Updike, and it wasn't until I started writing this review that I even noticed he had written the blurb on the back, and yes that might have given me the conviction to give this book two stars instead of three.
I remember a song from my youth—one we played on record players before households had stereos.
A time when said record players still had a setting for 78 rpm, which is what we had to use to play this tune.
(read it, you’ll see) And, BTW, the pupa (one of its meanings) should never be considered cute by anyone, other than a parent or grandparent, certainly not a priest.
Deserves reading for being banned by both the Nazis and the Communists.Among the many lines I liked: Normality is a tightrope-walker above the abyss of abnormality.
yazılış tarzı itibariyle fazlasıyla erken bir romanmış ferdydurke, o nedenle de uzun yıllar yasaklı kalmış. özellikle ilk baştaki okul ve öğretmen anlatımı çok iyiydi bence.ama asıl iyi çeviri nasıl olur diye okunabilir. osman fırat baş harikalar yaratmış.
A man is taken out of adult life and made to live as a child, he is forced to return to school and given foster parents to live with.
In one scene he hopes to achieve this by convincing his foster parents that something scandalous is going on in their teen-aged daughter's bedroom, there he opens one cupboard to reveal (I believe) the aforementioned pretty schoolboy - result happiness on the part of the parents, such a relationship is at least appropriate even if plainly over actively indulged in, so the narrator is forced to open a second cupboard - revealing the school teacher - result complete outrage and confusion.
Akıl almaz bir şeylerin anti-manifestosu ve aynı zamanda sıra dışı bir manifesto. Neler olduğunu ve olan şeylerin neden olduğunu, kimin neyi ve neyin kimi temsil ettiğini, hangi kelimenin hangi anlamlara gelip, hangilerinin hangi anlamlara gelmediğini çözmeye çalışırken kitap da bitiyor. Gözleri pörtlek okuyucu elinde bitmiş bir kitapla ve bir sürü anlamını kaybetmiş, yamulmuş, erimiş ve ezilip büzülmüş, tersine dönmüş soru işareti ile baş başa kalıyor. Anlayabilene aşk olsun
This book is the image of the battle for the maturity of someone who is in love with his own immaturity.As long as you understand Ferdydurke as a battle with convention, it will trot calmly down the well-beaten path; but if you understand that man creates himself with another man in the sense of the wildest debauchery, Ferdydurke will neigh and leap forward as if you had jabbed it with a spur, carrying you off into the realm of the Unpredictable.
Witold Gombrowicz (1904-1969) is considered as one of the most important literary figures in Poland.
Two years after its publication Russian invaded Poland and turned it into a communist country.
Poland subsequently banned this book so Gombrowicz hid in Argentina and France.Ferdydurke is a darkly satirical comedy that is considered modernist.
It is also my first time to laugh at the end of the novel upon reading this line:
Imagine reading 281 pages of this book and missing maybe third of what it says, then being referred to as an ass!
ha haBottomline, for its historical perspective and for sampling an important Polish novel, it's a worthwhile read.
Ferdydurke'nin 1937'deki ilk baskısı Bruno Schulz'un çizimini yaptığı kapak ile yayımlanmış.
Schulz, Ferdydurke için "Freud ve Proust'un yapıtlarına eşdeğer bir yapıt." diyor.
Schulz çok bilinmiyor olsa da, Kafka kadar sağlam bir referans.Sanatı, aileyi, eğitim sistemini, aşkı, yediğimiz yemeği, karşı çıktığımız savaşı, benimsediğimiz rolleri; yani şimdilerde "değer" olarak isimlendirdiğimiz her şeyi eleştiren, komik, sıradışı, diline alışılması zaman alan, biraz Otomatik Portakal tadında bir roman.
“Banyoya girmeden önce, dimdik başıyla alafranga tuvalete saptı ve orada doğal bir işlevden utanılmaması gerektiğini bilen bir kadın gibi kültürel kültürel, bilge bilge, bilinçli bilinçli ve entelektüel entelektüel gözden yitti.
Ve işte o zaman, oraya zaten bir mabede girer gibi girdiğini anladım.
Modern roman nedense beni sarmalamıyor
Unlike PORNOGRAFIA, this takes its sweet time revving up, but once the motor is cranked FERDYDURKE delivers some bizarro batshit thrills, memorably unnerving encounters, and genuine belly laffs.
The intro essay by Susan Sontag praises "its sublime mockery of all attempts to normalize desire," which is spot on.
With its tumbling prose, psychological acuity, and surreal gambits, the novel was so far ahead of its time that Gombrowitz included several digressions to discuss his methods and demonstrate that he knew what he was doing.
Often, he lets these mini-essays and playlets tilt toward contradiction and paradox.
By way of further explanation.
This actually makes some kind of sense as my own reactions oscillated somewhat between those poles, even as I read it.
As a result the novel makes a great deal of sense, and as I said often conveys itself very well, but takes a very long time to do so, with any actual action requiring pages of explication to get them off the ground.
right in the snoot! bash him right in the pupa!
Whee!" And so on (not an exact quote, but you get the picture)….But nor this book would cease mocking you if, nodding sagely like a Prof as you read it, stroking your scholarly chin as you congratulated your mature self on congratulating this novel for its zany immaturity, telling yourself, when you gasp for breath over the finish line (I have not yet recovered my own) that you are giving it the full five stars that its indubitable canonicity deserves—But, "It was Amazing!"?
The author fled to South America and since Europe had other things on its mind in the coming years both author and book were pretty much forgotten.
The story of the protagonist, who is compelled for strange reasons to return to high school as an adult, and thereby suffers again all the agonies of adolescence, is intertwined with bizarre non-sequitur chapters concerning arcane philosophical arguments between schools of thought represented by a pair fictional professors, along with all sorts of other sometimes irritating, sometimes brilliant, and sometimes impenetrable digressions.
It's all fart jokes and nose-picking until you realize it's actually one of the smartest books you've ever read.
But be warned: if you come looking only for the fart jokes and nose-picking, you could easily be disappointed.
The stupidities of the mature/noble/aristocratic cause stupidity of an immature/base/slumming kind.
And the cycle continues, as the stupidities of the immature cause others to set themselves up as mature or noble, and then everyone fights, and the fight does not end.
The genius of this book, also, is that it does all that in the form of fart jokes.
Chciałbym rozumieć więcej z tego co przeczytałem.Może w szkole (che che che) mi powiedzą
Gombrowicz (or the character he has used to portray Gombrowicz,) starts off experiencing a type of early mid-life crisis in his writing career, one published book under his belt, frustrated that he is hovering somewhere between being taken highly seriously and with great acclaim by certain pointless artistic circles to no end, and totally lampooned by the general public.
Best enjoyed with some Zubrowka (sorry for more Polish stereotyping) under the blinding rays of the arch-bum, when you feel like having some conventional traps of thought about who you are turned on their head- don’t take any of it too seriously and you’ll start to find it takes you to some pretty serious departments of the self.
Imagina que estás a dormir e enquanto dormes vais escrevendo tudo o que sonhas sem dar grande importância à forma ou à estrutura. O Ferdydurque é isso, mas também é mais; no sentido que faz pensar no absurdo, na sua importância, e até que ponto a dita normalidade não é por si um grande absurdo de sobrevivência. Publicado pela primeira vez há 80 anos, continuará por muitos mais a desafiar todos quanto se identifiquem e apreciem a audácia e a extravagância literária.
Gombrowicz is a useful author more than anything else. This book, for example, gives you an idea - "immaturity" - and then shows you how it can be used to systematically dismantle every system of meaning you might come across. People complain about philosophical novels, but "philosophy" here doesn't mean argument, or logic - more like following an intuited form as it grows and surprises.
4,5Popo'dan kaçabilene aşk olsun.
Or like, Joe Kowalski, the narrator, I will be entrapped and dealt the pupa.
Gombrowicz comes close to the heart of Ferdydurke when he writes:One would need to establish, proclaim, and define whether the work [at hand] is a novel, a memoir, a parody, a lampoon, a variation on a fantasy, or a study of some kind -- and what prevails in it: humor, irony, or some deeper meaning, sarcasm, persiflage, invective, rubbish, pur nonsens, pur claptrapism, and more, whether it's simply a pose, pretense, make-believe, bunkum, artificiality, paucity of wit, anemia of emotion, atrophy of imagination, subversion of order, and ruination of the mind.
Gombrowicz's presentation of youthful extravagance, tension, and conflict is a far cry from modern American popular culture's re-presentation of youth as some sort of white bread yesteryear of tamed revolution out of Happy Days and the Fonz or little mamma's boy Elvis Presley standing in for the big black dick of jazz, rock n roll, marijuana and true virgin estrogen and testosterone in a high school gym.
And there were so many Briticisms in a translation trying so hard to be American that it was clearly a foreigner's work, not native to either idiom--and not in a good way.
this book is funny and cool yall, starts off like a weird celine sort of fever dream where the narrator is seeing asses in the sky and then the fever dream turns real!!! omg. + lots of funny stuff like a making faces contest, a fight between analysis and synthesis and about 20 pages spent on athletic schoolgirls in their school girl outfits. good fetish, and in 1934 may have been ahead of its time, altho perhaps the polish schoolgirl of 1934 was not wearing the pleated gingham skirt of today's fetish. irregardless,
Le livre qui théorise le faisage de gueule et le cucul. Je ne sais pas à quel point le texte polonais a été altéré par la traduction, mais décidément, ça passe mal.
