https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5157.Black_and_Blue
Read when it came out in 1998 because it was an Oprah's bookclub selection, Black and Blue made me a lifetime fan of Quindlen's writing. A powerful book about the survivor of an abusive marriage and her son who is putting the pieces of her life back together, Black and Blue is a poignant tale of perseverance of a strong female protagonist.
She allowed me to really see into the heart and soul of Fran Benedetto, a mother and wife that stayed with an abusive husband for what she thought were the right reasons.
One day that Fran decided to save herself and her son, Robert.
Bobby Benedetto may never have left a single mark on Robert’s body, but Fran recognized the relentless damage to his spirit.
I felt Quindlen did a superb job in giving a voice to Fran, a voice that made me listen and start to understand a topic that may be all too easy for us to ignore if it doesn’t affect our own lives quite personally.
If you have been lucky enough never to have been hit by a man, Anna Quindlen Black and Blue is written so that you can walk in a beaten woman’s shoes.
No intelligent woman would ever stay with a man who hits her, right?
You spend years covering up that you are in a violent relationship and then you spend the rest of life covering up that you were a battered woman.
No one battered woman wants to see the pity and shame in another woman’s eyes.
I first read this book when I was entering 9th grade, and it changed my life. This may have been because of my age, but for me, Fran was a woman who did what I had never realized you could do- she left a horrible situation to make her life better. This book still inspires me, still makes me cry, and still gives me hope that no matter how bad something may get, you still have the power to help yourself. I would recommend this book to anyone over 15!
At moments quite stereotypical, other times very absorbing.Anna Quindlen has written very well-developed characters, and she clearly has an idea of what's going on.
I have never experienced abuse, so someone who has and read this book may think otherwise.
Our narrator repeats herself many times throughout the book.
Maybe this is why we often have her resurrect topics more than once.Besides those few points, the book was a pretty good read.
Or if you even know someone who is suffering from abuse, I advise you to tell them to go get help and suggest reading this book.
I have several favorite writers, and I concentrate much of my reading on their works.
I retired after working twenty-four years as a police dispatcher, so I am all too aware of the problems of domestic abuse.
I am so glad that I read this book, not just as a diversion from my usual novels and authors, but as a work which has reminded me anew what a terrible thing domestic abuse really is.
This book has been out for several years, but if you have never read it, I heartily recommend that you do.
Black and Blue is the story of a woman who flees an abusive relationship, taking her son and attempting to disappear into residential Florida, all the while waiting for her husband, a New York cop, to find and hurt her.
Black and Blue is merely an example of weak writing that reads like a made for TV movie.
Facing the realities of abuse is a good lesson to learn, and so the subject is worth reading about, but Quindlen's portrayal is less than realistic or compelling.
Just a little synopsis, this book is about a woman, Fran, who is in a relationship that is full of domestic violence at the hands of her NYPD husband, Bobby.
You have to keep it real, because you are telling the story of not just the possibly fictional heroine but of every woman who has encountered this situation and picks up your book.2.You have got to make the people who have never encountered domestic violence understand as much as possible.
It would have been really cool if the book switched perspectives from Fran, to Bobby, to maybe even her Son. I just thought that as a journalist it would have been way more controversial, uncomfortable, and scary!
I stayed because I loved Bobby." This book is a MUST read for anyone that says "Whys don't they just leave?", often said without compassion or understanding.
The answer to the question, "Why don't they just leave", is never an easy answer.
It is never something that unless you have lived it, that you can fully understand or judge.
This is just one window into a situation, but it is a good and clear window.Read it, maybe it will help you understand, maybe help you recognize it in someone else, or at the very least maybe make you less likely to say, "Why don't they just leave?"
I would not have picked up Black and Blue, with its proudly-displayed "Oprah's Book Club" emblem, had it not been a quarter at the annual neighborhood yard sale, but seeing as it was under a dollar, and was written by a journalist I admire, I thought I'd give it a whirl.
Basic plot: smart woman in abusive relationship almost dies from a beating, and finally leaves with her son.
Quindlen creates a believeable world that includes some very well-written supporting characters, and she made the point that smart women can end up in abusive relationships.
In many ways, Anna Quindlen is the diametric opposite of the Lifetime movie writing--none of her characters are all bad or all good, and her plots aren't predictable tragedies or feel-good endings.In "Black and Blue" Quindlen does a really good job of explaining how love and attraction and family get in the way of personal dignity and self-determination.
Even a bad-dude character like Bobby is made human, and the life Fran built with him a mix of the good--her son, her home, her job--and the terrifying.
This is a truly heartbreaking novel. The only real downside is that Quindlen's syntax would throw me off sometimes. Other than that, this is a quick, sad and true-to-reality read that I'm glad I picked up.
If you don't like wife beater books, then this one's not for you.
Fran Benedetto begins her first person narrative while sitting on a bench waiting for further instructions from a woman who's helping her run away from her alcoholic and wildly abusive husband (with their 10-year-old-son in tow).
The book follows her as she begins her new life, which in my opinion is much better than reading about her getting beaten all the time wondering why she won't leave.
Good insight into the horrifying and all-too-common abusive home but her constant fear at being discovered by her estranged husband gave me ulcers.
But good overall.
Written from a first-person narrator's perspective, this is an insightful view of domestic abuse from the victim, Fran Benedetto.
Fran was in an abusive marriage for 18 years when she finally had enough, took her son, and went into hiding under a new identity.
This book is filled intensively with Fran's feelings about the relationship with her policeman husband, her reasons for staying with him, and her feelings/fear after leaving.
I think it helped me understand a little better why a woman might stay with a man under such circumstances.
I've always been one of those people who thinks 'why doesn't she just leave'.
This book compelled me to read but I didn't really like it.
I was never really engaged with Beth and the writing style made it very difficult to empathize with her.
The book is about domestic violence and a woman's escape and her new life, but so much of it is simply within Beth's head it is difficult to really get caught up in the story.
It's almost like the reader is just thinking along with Beth and it's dull, everyday thoughts.
I'm actually surprised I finished it considering how little investment I had in the story.
I love Oprah books, okay? I just do. I love dark, heavy depressing subjects. I always have, most likely always will. I love reading about betrayal and revenge and cheats and liars. So I enjoyed this one. I didn't love it; it was sometimes predictable and wasn't always well organized, but it kept me engaged and wanting to hear more, which is all I really ask of a book: ENTERTAIN ME. If they do more, that's fantastic. This one wasn't fantastic, but I still enjoyed it and wanted to find out what would happen next.
I don't know why but I found this book really intense and couldn't put it down. I learned for the first time that organizations exist that will relocate battered wives and set them up with completely new identities, and how difficult but very necessary this is for the wife and her child(ren). Anna Quindlen's style is easy to read and follow. In no time I felt I knew Fran and all her emotional and physical bruises well.
The main character was stupid from beginning to end, so it was difficult for me to muster up even a little sympathy for her tragic situation.
This was not a cheery book, but spousal abuse is not a happy subject.
Even though it took Fran a long time to finally break away from her husband, I admired her for being strong and doing what she needed to do for her son.
The author did a good job of making me feel Fran/Beth's emotions.
I read a few reviews where the readers didn't like the ending, because it wasn't happy.
Even though the ending was hard to read and made me very sad, I appreciated that the author didn't end it the way a book like this typically would have.
I read a book in only 2 days (both of which were days I worked a full shift) and still only gave 2 stars?
So, you know, this wasn't a fun book.
But it was exactly the kind of book I'd have expected to be chosen for a book club (Oprah's or otherwise), and the kind of book my sister-in-law, who thought Nicholas Sparks was a pretty good author until recently, would read.
It's a book that takes something ugly (domestic violence) and makes it palatable for the casual reader, just like what The Help did for racism and what The Kite Runner did for the Taliban and Afghanistan.
3 1/2 stars rounded upAnna Quindlen paints a heart-wrenching picture of an abusive relationship and a mom who only wants the best for her child.
About halfway through I did have a hard time pressing on hence the 3 & 1/2 stars.
Otherwise this would have EASILY been a 4 star book.
This one hit really close to home because my mom was in an abusive relationship before marrying my dad so reading into the mind of a woman going through that was incredibly moving.
While I saw something of that sort coming, my heart broke when it did happen.
A great, painful readReading this book felt like becoming the battered Fran Benedetto.
Quindlen inhabited her character so thoroughly that reading it felt like walking around in Fran's shoes as she escaped her husband, raised her child and tried to build a new life for herself.
So much of this book was devastating, but at the same time it felt run through with truth, so that you feel like you have to stay, to keep turning pages, to bear witness to this life.
I don't know that I'll be in a hurry to read this again, and if spousal abuse is a trigger, definitely stay away, but I'm glad to have read it now.
3.5 stars for Black and Blue by Anna Quindlen.
Black and Blue is about Fran Benedetto who flees an emotionally and physically abusive marriage with her son, Robert.
Fran's husband, Bobby is controlling, manipulative, and downright nasty to her, and after a particularly severe beating, she has had enough so she takes off.
I sympathized for Fran and Robert.
Bobby Benedetto was well portrayed as the evil, hateful, abusive, drut of a husband.
All played important roles in the story and they were all interesting characters.
So, overall, Black and Blue has a lot going for it and it is a believable story about escaping an abusive relationship.
A story of a woman whose marriage has slipped into one of domestic abuse, impacting not just the two of them but their young son as well.But this book is powerfully crafted, and surprisingly, told in the first person.
And to add to the challenges she faces, her husband is a cop.She shares her fears for their young son, and the heartache of knowing that she wasn't the only one being abused in the marriage.
The risks of leaving an abusive spouse are high, and carry with them huge costs - having to repeatedly learn new identities, alter your appearances, and the potential need to disappear into the night at any given time (making putting down roots very emotionally risky).
3  stars. It was good because it was thought provoking. But it had a downer quality. Not entertaining enough.This book showed what Fran’s life was like during the first year after she ran from her violently abusive cop husband. She was in hiding. A group helped her by giving her a new name, id cards, a job, and an apartment. She’s not happy but doing ok. She makes a few friends. Her son is around age 11. He is doing ok but shows psychological scars from years of being around his mother getting b
Not entertaining enough.This book showed what Fran’s life was like during the first year after she ran from her violently abusive cop husband.
He is doing ok but shows psychological scars from years of being around his mother getting beat up.The end had more sadness than happiness, but it was ok.
If you want happy endings and a feeling of being uplifted, you won’t want this.
The goods and bads of kidnapping a child and keeping him away from the other parent.
And how the child might have a need or desire for one or the other.This was an Oprah Book Club selection.
When we were married, I thought a baby would help.
After the baby, I thought if we had another child he'd feel better.
When Robert was 2, I couldn't leave because those were the formative years.
When Robert was starting school I couldn't leave because school was a big adjustment.
So I stayed, and stayed, and stayed."Page 215 "I stayed with him a lot longer than I should have because eventually I thought I'd get perfect enough to make things better.
I was wrong."Page 293 "Everyone says that I did the right thing, that I shouldn't look back, that I had no choice.
Black and Blue portrays the plight of an abused wife who, after years of living in domestic terror and shame, finally decides to flee with her son to a new, anonymous life.
In particular, she uses the time to bond with her son and to watch carefully for signs that he, too, will become an abuser like his father, like his father’s father before him…Can they break this tragic cycle?
Though most couples agree to premarital counseling before getting married, I wonder if reading a book like this might give women insight into what the seeds of abuse look like before it blooms after the honeymoon is over.
Μια συγκλονιστική μαρτυρία για την κακοποίηση των γυναικών. Αξίζει να διαβαστεί, και μπορεί να διαβαστεί μονοκοπανιά.
Kept my interest mostlyI liked this book all right. I found it to be predictable and your typical domestic abuse story. It was an easy read to me and did hold my interest.
Fran finds herself, with her son, at the other end of the country; they have to start a new life with nothing to their names other than what has been given to them by the charity.The book tells us what it is like to constantly look over your shoulder in fear of seeing that familiar face, or hearing a noise in the night.
A lot more detail could have been given about the events of the last couple of years rather than skipping to the present time.I would be interested to know if such an organisation does exist; is there a lady like Patty Bancroft?
