https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/462396.The_Stars_are_Ours
On the outside it appears to be just a stock science fiction novel...but somehow it has always appealed to me, and become one of my all-time favorites.It would make an excellent movie.
I first read this when I was eight or nine years old, and probably read it a couple of dozen times during my childhood. It was probably my favorite book. In general, early Andre Norton (she got wonky as she got older, and wrote crazy cat lady stuff) is the best there is in juvenile science fiction, along with Heinlein juveniles like Farmer in the Sky. Other early Andre Norton favorites were The Time Traders, The Defiant Agents, The Beast Master, Lord of Thunder, Star Guard, Star Man's Son, and Star Rangers.
A group of scientists do just that, but is the new world inhabitable, or just as dangerous as the one they left behind?Andre Norton spends 190 pages attempting to answer those very questions where most authors would need at least 600.
By the end, there are just too many directions in need of exploration for the novel to possibly continue, therefore it stops abruptly with no resolution to anything.This novel is the first in a series called Ad Astra (To the Stars), so I am relieved we get to continue exploring this world.
I suppose if I'd thought of it, I'd've assumed that Norton and Ellison would've met--just seems odd, somehow.Because it involves a sleeper ship, the book is somewhat fragmented, and the part set on Earth is something like a prequel.
The rest of the book is set on Astra.
If I had to give a name to the series, I'd call it the Astra series: and although at the time of these two books, Astra is a world apart, unconnected to any interstellar union, the flora and fauna of Astra were apparently later exported to the rest of the Galaxy.Note that though this book begins with an explicit disavowal of racism, it ends by equally explicitly embracing racism, by means of the standard dodge 'they're not like us, and there's no way we can ever meet in peace'.
I'm finally getting around to listening to this book, as read by Uvula Audio. It's somewhat dated I suppose, but I'm finding it an exciting adventure thus far and am looking forward to hearing how the outlaw scientists do at trying to avoid the blasters of the anti-science authorities.FINALI enjoyed the adventure and the exploration of the alien planet. Just about the time when I was getting bored with the exploration, Norton amped up the action with ... well, I won't say with what so anyone else coming to this story will enjoy it also ... but it was exciting.
This was the first science fiction book I read, 'way back in grade school in the mid '50's. It changed my life, opening my mind to possible futures and a love of science.
continuing my reading of woman-authored pulp/golden age sff: this is a weird book. part one is a familiar persecuted-scientist dystopian future. part two is 300 years later (miracle of freezing...) landing on an earth-type other world. there does not seem to be any organic connection. part one is basic chase adventure, part two is discovering/settling. easy read, fast, simple plot and characters. maybe i am reading into it but it seems almost comic and self-referential like philip k dick...
This is a science fiction novel written by the great science fiction author Andre Norton.
I found it a real enjoyable read.(view spoiler)[Earth has come under the rule of religious theocracy in which all science is outlawed and scientists are hunted down and killed.
A secret society of scientists is plotting an interstellar journey to freedom.
The story recounts this groups escape from Earth and life on a new world where they may potentially come in conflict with a cruel and hostile intelligent species.Given the timing of this novel I have to winder if Norton was making a comment on McCarthyism.
(hide spoiler)]
Overall quite good. A bit of a departure from Norton's norms but definitely display her great abilities.
Not a bad read for a 1950s sci-fi classic. Andre Norton (penname, Alice Mary Norton is her real name) is one of the most prolific female sci-fi writers of her time. I enjoy modern sci-fi but I also like to realize an appreciation for the writers who led the movement that gave us what we have today.
Definitely a book of two halves. I really didn't like the "Boys Own" style of the first half of the book but loved the classic science fiction of the second. Stick with it and it pays off. My first "Norton" but definitely not my last!
dropped
Great adventure! Even after all these years, Norton's still got it!
Continuing my re-read of the Andre Norton books I loved as a kid. I didn't remember this one, and it doesn't hold up as well as some, but still enjoyable.
Unknown to our main character, Dard, there is a secret group that is making plans on leaving Earth and finding a new planet where they could start anew.
They just needed a formula for suspended animation, so they could sleep away the many years it would take to complete the trip.Our main character's brother, who is a cripple, has finally finished his formula.
After many adventures, Dard and his sister make it to the enclave and eventually after fighting it out with the despotic group that has been hunting them, the group blast off and sleep for no-one is sure how long.
It's not intended to destroy anyone's livelihood nor to churn out book promotions for them — just my opinion/reaction shared with other readers and a means to track my reading, provide book comparison data and aid in book recommendations feature.I rate here according to goodreads scale meaning that because goodreads determined most readers choose books they think they will enjoy, the goodreads average/okay rating on a 5-unit scale (2½) is rounded down to 2 stars where other sites like retailer Amazon round up to make 3 stars the average/okay read.
This adventure tale has a great premise and decent pace and an abrupt political ending.The world of this story is one where scientists are blamed for atomic weapons, and most other weapons of war.
The second half of the book details Dard and the scientists adventures on a new world, far from Earth.This book was originally published 60 years ago, and some parts of it feel dated.
The ending is very abrupt and feels like a political statement against war.
Andre Norton wrote a sequel to this book, and perhaps this ending was adjusted to tie them together.That sequel, "Star Born", was released just three years later.
This book plods along, detailing the struggles of an underground group of outlaw scientists who, in order to escape the tyranny and oppression of a despotic ruling class, escape in a rocket to an uncharted solar system.
In this book, few of the characters have common names.
Names like Kimber, Dessie, Sach, Hew, Lotta and others populate the book, probably trying to suggest that in the future we will be multicultural and interacial, but our prejudices are replaced by fanatic class divisions.
The end seems to query if mankind has the ability to live a peaceful, prosperous life in a world where external threats from other cultures or races which may oppress them in the future.
Earth had been ravaged by war, and most of the population destroyed.
The survivors blamed the scientists and learned individuals living for the war and resulting hardship of mankind.
The remaining few individuals with knowledge banned together, and built a space ship.
With the knowledge of frozen sleep, they boarded the ship and took off for a possible new home among the stars.
They then explored the world, made friends with the remaining inhabitants, and found that the original owners had fought a war, destroying almost all of them, and were entirely hateful toward all life.
It's set in a post apocalyptic world, where a terrorist incident has damaged the world in a number of ways.
This novel is set in what appears to be the northern middle states of the US near the Rocky Mountains.
Here that lingering strain of anti-intellectualism has given rise to the pernicious philosophy of Pax. People are divided into Peacemen, peasantry and slaves (former scientists, teachers and anyone who disagrees with the Peacemen.)The Stars are Ours review at SFReader.com
This post apocalyptic story begins with a totalitarian government that is systematically hunting down and killing "free scientists." The main character, Dard Nordisis, and a select few escape the worldwide tyranny in an experimental spaceship, leading to a new life in an alien world.Andre Norton paints a vivid portrait of both the hostile world they escaped from and the hostile new world they discover.
Contrasts abound between the danger from the human hatred they escaped and risks in this new world where strange creatures threaten them.
Imagery and character development make The Stars are Ours a fast and fun read.
This is a very standard science fiction adventure written in the 50's, with the target audience being teenage boys.
It's a pretty easy read, and a decent story, just don't think too much about any of the details in story.
Things work out pretty easily for these intrepid explorers.
They randomly pick a star out of the sky to flee to, the star happens to have a planet with abreathable atmosphere and water, there are no real predators and there are a lot of things they can eat on the planet, because apparently no one thought about any of these rather important details.
Also why does a sinister science hating government have a super computer and helicopters.
Earth technology develops far enough to get humans to Mars and Venus, but then a weapon is turned on Earth that kills millions and convinces mankind to reject all knowledge as dangerous, especially science.
A few brave scientists survive after the purges and builds the first galactic spacecraft.
This is the story of how they escaped the oppressive hold of Earth and reached a whole new world.
So far, this is one of my top 5 favorite Andre Norton novels.
It has a lot of depth to its world-building, and actually it is still a possible future for mankind, even though this book is decades old.
In a post apocalyptic Earth, a charismatic man becomes leader and when he is assassinated, the person who takes over leads a purge of all scientists and other educated persons. Dard's brother is a scientist and their living is very precarious. When Lars finds the answer, and then is killed, Dard and his niece must make their way to safety with other scientists who are planning to leave the planet. Lars had the answer to cold sleep. They make their way to a new planet and start new lives there.
This is a fast paced adventure novel.
Not a lot of depth or character description, but then as long as you don't epect these its fine, in fact its more than fine, I found it enjoyable.
The story is split into two half, the first consentrates on how a group of scientists, who are hunted by the government, escape and leave Earth.
The second is set when they arrive on a new planet and some of the issues they encounter.Take the brain out, don't try to think about it too much and enjoy the ride.
Very good science fiction classic written in the early 1950's. Dessie and Dard are siblings living on Earth after society has broken down and the current government bans science, hunting and killing Free Scientists. They are entrusted to bring some scientific information developed by Lars to a group of rebels. This group is developing a ship to leave the Earth and go to find another world. Very well written with a sympathetic protagonist and an interesting portrait of another planet.
Good, old-fashioned Sci-Fi. Not tech-dependent, but more on the social side. It has been a while since I read a pulp-type sci-fi book, and I wonder why. This is not high-brow, heavy hitting literature, but it was a good, entertaining story, and a quick read.No wonder Andre Norton is/was such a popular writer.
Although the ISBN-10 and ISBN-13 match my copy, the cover photo does not. In tis story, there are several conflicts. Scientists against pacifists. Technology versus agriculture. Men against men.
Somewhat weak.
read this when it first came out 20 years ago
