https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/394798.Foxfire

Absolutely vile. The heroine is an insufferably spoiled racist snob, and the hero is a "savage" half-Apache (modernized with a college education) whom she "tames" through an endless marriage filled with teasing sex, manipulation, and financial scheming. But when I describe it like this, I make it sound much sexier than it really is. Because the whole book is deadly dull. Except when it's really, really offensive.
When Dart's half Apache mother dies, Amanda finds papers detailing a legend about two priests who discovered an ancient Anasazi cliff dwelling in the high country of Arizona with a glittering wall of gold in the cave behind it.
Some readers might find the first half of this novel to be a bit slow paced as Seton sets up her storyline and details in the day to day life of a mining operation, but I enjoyed it very much.
As stated previously, I enjoyed this book very much, but probably only for die hard Seton fans (and I am one) or for those interested in mining history and legends of lost gold.
Another favorite that I re-read every so often. A good story about two people learning to live together despite very different backgrounds. He is so true to his ideals that he cannot bend; she is so flexible that she seems to lose her own sense of self. This was made into a really crappy B movie in the 50's or 60's that didn't seems to have any relation to the book other than the title and it was set in a western mining town.
Early 1930's depression era when Amanda meets the dark and brooding Jonathan Dartland (Dart) while returning on cruise from Europe.
Amanda has had a lovely, somewhat spoiled life, and Dart is well-educated, professor father, American Apache mother.
He loves the southwest and the poor mining life.
I loved Dart's character and getting to know his Indian family; as always Seton brought them truly to reality for me...
they Am Indians that we should all know and appreciate.
I loved the southwest adventure, the details of mining in those days.
3.9***An impeccable plot that combines a beautiful heroine – Amanda, a dark dashing hero -Dartland and a historic mine (Poldark déjà vu) though the mine in this case is in Arizona in the 1930s midst of the depression.
This book really captures the time period, the struggles of frontier mining life and the southwest flora- wonderful references to ocotillo, saguaro, cholla and creosote bush.
Insightfully poignant and believable references to Native American plight living in their wickiup dwellings and their children returning to reservation life after required attendance in white schools.
It radiates with the beauty and honesty of a WPA painting.
Was it good...I don't know? I feel confused about how to rate it. I'm not much for romance novels. So I kind of find it hard to be fair. I read Dragonwyck years ago and loved it a lot and always wanted to read some more Anya Seton. This was Arizona set, so it got me interested. It's kind of rambling. I did find it page turning. I didn't really like the last 20 pages at all. It's a bit cliched. I have one more Anya Seton book on my self, so I'll give her another try.
3.5 stars. This is an old-fashioned romance written in the early 50's and taking place in the 30's. Somewhat formulaic and not Seton's best work. Some reviewers did not care for heroine but I found the hero rather unlikable. Set in remote areas of Arizona and interesting from that perspective.
Amanda and Dart are newlyweds in Lodestone, a tiny, struggling Arizona town, during The Great Depression.
Struggling to make ends meet, Amanda's interest is piqued by a legend of hidden gold in the desert.
Dart is initially dismissive of the story, but as both his and Amanda's pasts conspire against them and threaten their futures, he too ultimately gets sucked into a cross-country adventure.Foxfire has a more modern feel than most of Seton's other works.
The language itself seems more modern than others that I have read.
I read this book many years ago and knew I had saved it for a reason.
All these years it has been sitting in my personal library while I have given away dozens of fascinating books to second hand stores, etc.
Finally decided to read it again and I loved it more than ever.
A charming love story set in the old west with everything you need for a page turner.
A dark and handsome inscrutable hero, a beautiful heroine way out of her comfort zone, and a setting both harsh and wonderful make for a yarn you just can't put down.If I'm still around in another ten years, I guarantee I'll read it again.
I can't give no stars or one star to Anya Seton, she's one of my favorite authors (I named my daughter Anya) and she wrote my all-time favorite book (Green Darkness) but this wasn't good.
It didn't completely suck, but it wasn't even close to her other 9 books, most of which are excellent.
I guess every consistently good writer has one bad book, or one that's not as good as the others.
Toni Morrison, even, had a critically panned book I couldn't get through (Paradise).
So I'm disappointed but happy there are other books of hers to reread and enjoy and pass on to my Anya.
Young, beautiful socialite Amanda Lawrence falls in love with a young man from a different social set.
Part-Apache Johnathan "Dart" Dartland a mining engineer who has a position with a company in Lodestone, Arizona.
He takes her away from her comfortable lifestyle and settles her in a Sears and Roebuck papered shack near the mine.
Amanda goes through "growing pains" with her new life and marriage and Dart has to adjust as well to their marriage.The book describes their relationship with honesty and paints a strong picture of the hard-scrabble life of persons who lived in the mining towns.
Probably my very favourite romance ever written.
It's not just about falling in love, but about two people with very different sets of values learning to understand each other and make a successful marriage, while learning to deal with poverty and hardship during the depression era.
Very strong side plots about lost love and regret.I might be biased because I have an interest in mining and I like Arizona and Native American themes.
However, the quality of writing, the characterisation and multi-faceted story makes this so much more than a romance.Shame about the terrible movie into which it was made.
This book was ok but a bit of a dissapointment. I did mnot like any of the characters, especially Amanda. DArt was proabaly the best but too good a person. I hated Dr. Hugh and wondered why Amanda liked him so much. As for As for Amanda's obsession to hunt for the gold it made no sense to me. And when they went and looked for it the book got crazy. Wow and this solved all their problems, even though there was no fortune to be found. I'' have to try her other books as reeaders say they are better.
This is not my favourite Anya Seton book - mining is not a particularly interesting subject for me, so reading this novel was always going to have a possible boredom factor. However she is talented writer and her characters are well-drawn and believable (within the framework of the story). There is a tendency to melodrama in some of the descriptive passages, but not enough to be off-putting. I enjoyed the book overall, particularly the second half, and have allocated a 3-star rating.
I finished this book two days ago and I am still on the fence about it. I loved the characters and the settings,(Seton always knows how to develop a great character!) The first of the book instantly hooked me, but I felt like the middle of the book was long and slow while the end was quick and abrupt and everything ended a bit too tidy. But all in all I love Anya Seton, and I think the book was a very enjoyable read.
Ah, I love the old books. There just seems to be a quality of writing that is missing these days. This one has captivating characters, a strong sense of time and place (right after the stock market crash of 1929 in the American southwest), conflicts between an east-coast former rich girl and her new part-Indian husband and a vicious mining boss, and just enough romance without being icky. Perfect recipe for an escapist read that you don't have to feel guilty for.
It was in one of those big, hardback books of three novels together all by Anya Seton so I wanted to read it to be able to pass the book on. About page 50 or so the book gets quite suspenseful: the characters get really interesting as well as the setting in a small mining town. It ended up being my favorite of the three Anya Seton books bound together.
really enjoyed this story of two very different people and how despite their very different principles one exploration for a common goal brought them together. With a character highlighting a lust for gold I thought it was clever how against him Amanda and Dart's search was for more than just gold. Really good story and would recommend.
We'll see how it is!! It's been on my shelf for so long I have to read it! Okay so I had to stop!!! I did not like it at all! Too much mining detail for me, that I could not even get through it. I have read other Seton books and loved them, but NOT this one! Sorry!!! I gave it a chance, made it to page 80!
At this point in the read, not my favorite Anya Seton...However, I feel she brought the story home in closing and the characters will linger in my mind...it's just that I didn't like them all that much...and reading the first half of 'Foxfire' is akin to pouring winter molasses...
Overall, this was an enjoyable read. However, I'm not sure I really liked the ending. It felt a little as though the author had decided the book was long enough, and so everything wrapped up fairly suddenly. Also, I'm not sure how believable the ending really is. Still, a fun read.
Anya Seton, one of my favorite authors ... I've re-read this book several time, about a very spoiled, rich young lady that choose to live in a gold mining camp, without any conveniences and how she copes.
Slow to get into, as mining just isn't that interesting to me. Second half of the book was definitely more interesting. I wish that Calise had been more of a focus of the story, as so much could have been done with her story.
More interesting to read because I am visiting central Arizona where the book takes place.
This was fantastic. Really great characters.
I liked this one, though not one she is well know for writing
A love story set in 1930’s America and the hardships of living in a mining town that looks at the ways people interact. Excellent
Only book of Anya Seton's that I did not like. Just not like her typical novels. Katherine, Green Darkness, Winthrop Woman, excellent, this one .. meh
My second Anya Seton book. I enjoyed Dragonwyck so much, I thought I'd try another. This book is VERY different from Dragonwyck, but I really liked it nonetheless.
