https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35210.How_to_Talk_to_Anyone
This book definitely increased my awareness of my social behavior, and I’ll keep several of the tips in mind.If you’ve read How to Win Friends and Influence People (my review) or other books about winning people over, you won’t find much new here.
Some tips seem disingenuous and manipulative, such as timing your smile, crafting your compliments, and altering your behavior, but most are sound.I listened to the audiobook, which is energetically read by the author.
The woman who wrote this may have social skills, but she is also an idiot.
Like a true conversationalist, Landes makes sure every single "trick" is accompanied by one or two vapid anecdotes.
Favorite idiotic quote- "Most Big Apple subway riders know only two things about the subway: where they get on and where they get off.
They know nothing about the rest of the system.
Most people are like NYC strap-hangers when it comes to their hobbies and interests.
They know their own pastimes, but all the others are like unvisited stations."You like this?
1. The Flooding Smile – Don’t flash an immediate smile when you greet someone, as though anyone who walked into your line of sight would be the beneficiary. Instead, look at the other person’s face for a second. Pause. Soak in their persona. Then let a big, warm, responsive smile flood over your face and overflow into your eyes. It will engulf the recipient like a warm wave. The split-second delay convinces people your flooding smile is genuine and only for them.2. Sticky Eyes – Pretend your eye
Never the Naked Introduction – When introducing people, don’t throw out an unbaited hook and stand there grinning like a big clam, leaving the newlymets to flutter their fins and fish for a topic.
Like a parrot, simply repeat the last few words your conversation partner says.
Knowing the big-deal news of the moment is also a defensive move that rescues you from putting your foot in your mouth by asking what everybody’s talking about.
Here’s another way to tell the big players from the little ones just by listening to a few minutes of their conversation.33.
I shall elaborate.The author of this book, Leil Lowndes, has divided the book into 92 "mini-essays" for each of her "little tricks".
It tries so hard to reinforce her own inflated sense of self-importance it's almost like you're reading a pep talk from the author to herself.
Half of it sounds like invented garbage and...to no real end.But to be fair, there are some decent tips in the book.
Overall, the book isn't terrible if we purely look at the content, but you're going to struggle your way through all of Leil's garbage boasting and Big Cat little cat talk.
What I liked was the practical advice and clear examples and anecdotes for each tip.I docked a star because I while I understand where Lowndes was going with the "Big Cat" vs "Little Cat" comparison (or "Big Winners" vs "Losers"), at times I felt she took it too far.
Having good social skills is important, I get it, but c'mon, we're going to make mistakes along the way, too and we shouldn't be deemed permanent failures as a result.
Mistakes are a part of learning.But overall, great book, and as I mentioned earlier, I did leave with some good tips to put into practice, so that's a bonus.
2 word review, shit sandwich.
I read this book because the title was appealing to me, an awkward turtle.
I'm not good at small talk even when I know what I should say, I probably have ADD and I don't like looking people in the eyes for too long.
Nearly all these tips are so phony and about basically being a fake person for other people so they like you.
The tips are all fairly obvious (if not contradictory) but it doesn't help anyone like me who already knows the lot of it but has severe trouble in actually applying them!
This one is not that book.
بعضی از مطالبش مفید بود که خیلی از وقتها از ذهنمون دور میمونه و بهش توجه نمیکنیم ولی کلکها و دروغهایی که به خواننده یاد می داد اصلا اخلاقی نبود. حتی به نظرم مخاطب حتما تفاوت فیلم بازی کردن و توجه واقعی به بعضی اصول و آداب معاشرت رو میفهمه و اگر اونجوری که توی کتاب میگه کسی فیلم بازی کنه بازخورد منفی هم خواهد داشت. بهتر بود و میشد بسیاری از همین مطالب رو افراد از صمیم دل انجام بدن نه اینکه دائم توی کتاب یادآوری کنه که کافی هست نقشش رو بازی کنی و دروغ بگی
This lady probably has some good social skills herself, but she's a god damn idiot.

از کتاباییه که هر کسی باید بخونه به نظرم یک بار خوندن واسه اظهار نظر کافی نیستوقتی بار دوم خوندم دوباره ادیت میکنم
The author starts by saying that Dale Carnegie's book of How to Win Friends and Influence People is not applicable for the 21st century any more.
However, the author did nothing but copying the same lame ideas from his book and attached her name on the cover.
I real time waster.
Nevertheless, I listened to it through as an audiobook, however it keeps to be waste my valuable moments of peace.
I really have to stop giving a chance to this sort of self-development books and keep in mind that they are nothing but turning you into a nasty doormat to people in order to be accepted.
It is good to be reminded of these skills if you are working with people and counseling them. Some of them I found came natural to me as I invest my entire life in being fully there for people in their needs and pains.
my mom made me read it; the "tricks" are totally superficial and many of them are actually rather conniving. i'm not a fan.
It really does helps me a lot before I enter my current job.
This book sucks.
ไมคอยถนัดอานแนว how to เลมนีซือมาเพราะเหนวานาจะมีประโยชน สวนใหญเคลดลับในเลมกเปนสิงทีรูกันอยูแลว หากทำบอยๆ มันกคงจะพัฒนาทักษะการสือสารสนทนาได แตพวกอานแลวอานเลยอยางเรา คงไมเกิดผลอะไร อืม แตการทีมีคนเอาเคลดลับมาสรุปยอยเปนขอๆ แถมยกตัวอยางขำๆ มันกสะดวกดีนันแหละ
ไม่ค่อยถนัดอ่านแนว how to เล่มนี้ซื้อมาเพราะเห็นว่าน่าจะมีประโยชน์ ส่วนใหญ่เคล็ดลับในเล่มก็เป็นสิ่งที่รู้กันอยู่แล้ว หากทำบ่อยๆ มันก็คงจะพัฒนาทักษะการสื่อสารสนทนาได้ แต่พวกอ่านแล้วอ่านเลยอย่างเรา คงไม่เกิดผลอะไร อืม แต่การที่มีคนเอาเคล็ดลับมาสรุปย่อยเป็นข้อๆ แถมยกตัวอย่างขำๆ มันก็สะดวกดีนั่นแหละ
اول های کتاب خیلی هیجان انگیز بود، حتی چند تا از تکنیک هاش رو هم استفاده کردم و جواب خوبی گرفتم، ولی آخر کتاب خیلی لوس بود، انگار نویسنده مطلب کم آورده بود
Having some experience as a management trainer, I look at self-help books critically and here is my analysis.First the positives.
It is especially good for people who are socially challenged.On the downside, the book traverses social and professional settings, zigzagging its path, which becomes a tad confusing.
This formatting is focused on producing 92 separate tips and relating social situations to conform to them.
It would have been better to classify social situations with their progression and then offer tips accordingly, which would have made the book more coherent and pragmatic.The book borrows from Dale Carnegie and yet dismisses his tips as dated, this was a put off for me.
Either way, this book had a couple truly good, insightful tips (all at the beginning), and the rest was either common sense or something that a socially observant person would have already picked up on in the course of their life.
An example of a good tip was at the beginning- when greeting/meeting someone, wait a second before smiling, considering them, finally letting the corners of your mouth slowly creep up into a full smile, communicating to the other person that your smile is just for them.
This book isn't as much a communication tool as a how-to manual to get hired.
چندین بار دیگه هم ،خواهم خوند این کتاب رو8>
Interessant boek met heel goede tips. Zeker voor mensen die van nature geen groepsdieren zijn of eerder introvert zijn. Het enige dat mij een beetje stoorde was dat het boek voornamelijk handelde vanuit eigenbelang. Je geeft bijvoorbeeld complimenten omdat je gesprekspartner JOU leuk zal vinden, je herinnert je bepaalde belangrijke evenementen uit zijn leven omdat hij JOU meer zal appreciëren. Ik vind dat zo'n dingen ook zouden moeten kunnen gebeuren zonder er meer uit te willen halen.
Just wanted to read up to improve on persuasion skillsBecause... of my work natureLately, I've been rather busy trying to adjust to my new job. Thankfully, I am getting into the flow of things and just wanted to seek improvements in my interpersonal skills. This book definitely provided snippets of useful information as well as anecdotes. Some were relevant, some were easy to grasp while some were a little abstract. On the whole, a self help book that did deliver its message albeit a few complicated analogies.
Great book for anyone who wants to learn more communication tricks
The content of Leil Lowndes's How to Talk to Anyone is much better described by its subtitle: 92 Little Tricks for Big Success in Relationships.
Rather than cultivating a "bag of tricks" to make people around feel better about themselves and me, why not cultivate an attitude of genuine interest and care for others around me?
To me, a form letter just doesn't seem the height of caring.However, there are some really good techniques in the book, too.
I can, and will, apply parts of this book to my life but the content and tone is heavily geared towards your professional life and creating somewhat artificial relationships to get sales or get ahead.
For some this book might be more valuable by skipping the talk of big cats and glass ceilings, reading the tips at the end of the chapter and then reading that chapter if they apply.
I'm a big fan of clear communication and speaking up and representing yourself.
I am also a big fan of relevant and concise information, without wasting anyone's time, especially my own and that of my clients'.
This book is too long, it is badly read in the audio version AND it is dated.
Very very dated.
And her self-aggrandizement got old after the first time she did it, but the entire book is full of examples of her own superior knowing to that of her friends and colleagues, about whom she shares entirely too much detail for me to feel comfortable for them being publicly shamed for their gaffes.

Communication isn't hard, but we all need reminders. This book helped me pinpoint what I do and don't do correctly. This also gave me help with dealing with the two most dreaded questions, where are you from? and What do you do? The "naked" answers to both usually making people a bit uncomfortable.
Repeating an action makes a habit Your habits create your character Your character is your destiny..
