https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/568592.Fushigi_Y_gi

If you've never read shojo manga before, this series is a great place to start.Book Details: Title Fushigi Yûgi, Volume 1: PriestessAuthor Yu WataseReviewed By Purplycookie
I remember reading a little bit of Fushigi Yugi back when they were first being released, but never finished off the series.
The art is really, really, really pretty, enough that it bumped the rating up a whole star for me.
The actual plot itself seems pretty interesting, and is off to a fairly good start.
And Miaka herself is a very weak main character, someone that I don't think I could stand reading about for much longer.
I don't think I really liked any of the characters here.
So pretty art aside, I'll leave the rest of this series be.
Loved this one! The ancient culture stuff was really fascinating, and there are some great characters. The artwork is brilliant, and it's an intriguing storyline that's quite unique.
Is it too early to hate Miaka? I can't stand her, but gotta love her Tamahome. Reverse harem in sight!
I am sorry for you manga lovers, but I did try to like this book.
But when you do find a book like that- which is Fushigi Yugi- it ends up disappointing so much.
I mean, unless they find whining and pinning attractive, there really is no reason to like these kinds of characters.
There are absolutely no reasons for them to like each other.
Hell, their "love" is so lustful the rest of the letters in the word should be capitalized.
Most people I know would like this manga, but unfortunely, I'm not one of those people.
I read this a while ago, so my memory's foggy, but I do remember going, "meh" to this book and then being very glad the library didn't have any of the other books in the series.The main character is what's known as a "hapless heroine sue." In other words, she's so "normal" (or what is considered "normal" of a girl in Japan when this was written).
Only the guys have brains or brawn.
Main character doesn't even have looks.
Je commence à reprendre les mangas que j'avais entreposés chez ma mère (même si je n'ai pas encore aménagé de bibli chez moi pour les ranger!) et je suis retombée sur les Fushigi Yugi qu'une copine m'a laissés ! Je ne me rappelais pas que c'était si drôle. L'histoire est maîtrisée, les suspenses aussi et y'a de la romance pour qui en veut. Ca se dévore très rapidement c'est vraiment sympa à lire. Par contre j'aurais du en prendre plus que 3, c'est vraiment pas assez !
Waktu itu baca waktu masa puber, pas SMP, makanya saya bisa tahan baca manga romance yang fluff dan klisenya sehebat ini.
LOL.Tapi dari sudut tema saya suka sekali, terutama setting zaman dan wilayah yang dipilih....
Atau sebelumnya?Dari tema, mirip Inuyasha, tapi bedanya ini harem.
Saya ingat dulu saya jatuh cinta sama Tamahome dan Chichiri, terutama kalau Chichiri lagi buka mata (FUJI!!).
(view spoiler)[dan anaknya Miaka sama Tamahome lucu banget!!
Saya dulu bacanya skip di terlalu banyak tempat (yang bertaburan angst!
saya suka angst, tapi kalau berlebihan juga gimana gitu rasanya).So after all, it was OK, but couldn't say this was my favorite.
Okay so, I originally read Fushigi Yugi when i was in junior high and high school.
I was really into the romance and adventure and mythology of the story.
Miaka is ridiculously, insanely, unbelievably stupid basically in order to move the plot forward.
Hotohori...
apparently randomly in love with Miaka but mor with the idea of her.
And lastly, Nuriko.Nuriko is one of my favorite characters but i don't really understand her motivations in this part of the story.
so frustrating reading this again.
(view spoiler)[Hotohori's never gonna be able to marry you cuz you're a guy (hide spoiler)]...Anyway, gonna continue my reread.
Fushigi Yugi is a great Manga series for fans of girl's romance. Its got a slew of memorable characters, plenty of action and of course a love triangle (or square or... you get the idea). It gets a little weird towards the end, however it is worth a read. Try any of Yuu Watase's fantasy stories.
Reread #500000000 (Not really but I did read this volume a lot when I was younger.) I might do a full review of the series when I finish it, but I will say right now that volume 1 isn't as good as I remember it being.
Un des premiers mangas que j'ai dévoré d'un coup! Yuu Watase Powa!!!
Nope.
Zum Inhalt:Eine Liebe die eigentlich nicht sein darf, eine Freundschaft die zu erbitterter Feindschaft wird und ein Abenteuer das im Manga-Universum seinesgleichen sucht: Yuu Watases Kult-Manga Fushigi Yuugi ist all das und noch viel mehr!Miaka Yuuki ist eine absolute Niete in der Schule und isst für ihr Leben gern.
Außerdem besticht die Geschichte von Yuu Watase mit witzigen Szenen.Besonders junge Leserinnen werden sich vielleicht mit der Rolle der Miaka identifizieren können - Miaka versucht es allen Recht zu machen und in der Schule zu glänzen, doch so einfach wie das zum Beispiel ihre Mutter sieht, ist das für das Mädchen nicht.
Como buena seguidora del anime (en catalán y del K3, donde se emitían) cuando vi los mangas no pude evitar comprármelos.
Al leer el primer tomo me preocupaba que mi yo de ahora no le gustara y se preguntara por qué en ese momento me gustaba tanto.
Así que fue una sorpresa cuando al empezar a leérmelo me hizo sentir tan bien, entendí cosas que en su momento no entendía (EL EMPERADOR, ejem, ejem).
Miaka sigue siendo un amor de personaje y el primer tomo ya te dice como van a ser las cosas.
Así que solo deseas saber si Miaka conseguirá a los 7 dioses.
I am sure the vast majority of people that have read this book would give it 3-5 stars.
But I just couldn't even get through it.
I thought I'd like it because I enjoyed the anime as a teenager, but as an adult, I can no longer stand female main characters that are idiots.
The classic Sailor Moon strong of heart, but little brains, idiotic female lead character.I'm okay with female lead characters that are do not know much (a.k.a. ignorant of knowledge), but I just can't stand ones that are idiots where all they care about are boys or food, and they make inane imbecile comments and actions.
Once I found out that Takiko Okuda's story was out, I was literally on pins and needles.We knew (if you have read Fushigi Yuugi) of what happened to the first girl to open the Universe of the Four Gods, but not much else.Great story, and the ending was as expected. Since the priestess of Byakko's story is up; lets see what happens next!
Re-read from my childhood. I cant believe I haven't picked this up in years. Looking back her artwork has come along so far in the past few years. But I have to say this is one of my favorite stories and favorite protagonist.
Good
What a story! The fantasy, action and romance mixed into this series is great making the whole story really enjoyable to read. 4.5 stars for sure, I'm so excited to read more of this series!
Leídos todos, una obra clásica que nunca me canso de leer.
the following review is for the entire Fushigi Yugi series.more shameless manga reviewing!Yuu Watase has a good feel for balancing dark drama and romance.
like Inuyasha, Fushigi Yugi was one of the manage/anime series that dominated my little teen life and holds a special place in my library.
but I guess that is just shoujo manga...anyway, what is nice about Miaka's character is that she is not overly self sacrificing and good.
Today's docket is Fushigi Yugi (aka The Mysterious Play, waaaay back when this was originally translated and released by Viz) volume 1: Priestess.Meet Miaka Yuki, an average Japanese middle school student cramming for her exams.
Miaka goes back, cause hey easy Street am I right?, and Yui is more or less stuck dealing with that in our world.In this vol we meet: Tamahome (profiteering jack of all trades master martial artist), Hotohori (the prettiest flower...also the Emperor) and Nuriko (one tough broad...er delicate lady of the Inner Seraglio).We can recap like this: Miaka don't do that!
Really everyone is pretty awesome...until they succumb to the reverse harem rule: thou must love the heroine.
It seems a bit like Red River, though I've only read the first volume of that series too.What is VERY interesting to me is the manga-ka talks a lot about not copying other artists in her panels.
She talks about making sure you have your own style and it's okay to be influenced by other artists you like, but don't make your characters look exactly the same because to her, that is annoying.
I just thought it was kind of funny she was lecturing people about not copying artists and making your own art style yet hers looks exactly like Rumiko Takahashi's.
I'm really not sure what to think about this one.I first saw an ad for Fushigi Yûgi in the back of another manga, and instantly fell in love with the picture, which is same as the front cover from Vol 1.
Unfortunately, it's out of print and has so far proved impossible to get in the UK for less than an emperor's ransom.When I found Vol 1, 2, 9 and 10 in a second-hand store, I scooped them up.
By the time we met Hotohori, my interest had been piqued, and by the time the quest was delivered, I was thinking that I might well carry on with the series.Will I shell out the big bucks for Vols 3 through 8?
I had just started anime and my neighbor had these on VHS at the time.
I never did finish watching it even after my sister bought the series for both herself and my niece to enjoy.Now I remember why I didn't finish it: Miaka annoyed the hell out of me.
I think I would have poured more into the series if she had learned to stand on her own two feet and become something more.
She learns nothing and doesn't even try really once to stand on her own always believing Tomahoma will swoop in and save her.And he does.
This is one of the classic shoujo mangas by Yuu Watase.
They saw an opened book and read that those who will read it will become the heroine in the story.
They met Tamahome who demanded money for anything (reasons will be shown on further volumes).The characters slowly show their personalities.
The heroine, Miaka, does not think much but she has a big heart & courage.
It's the old-school formula for shoujo (because you know, this manga is old).
Miaka might be seen as a weak character but I think she is just a magnet for trouble.
She ends up in a fantasy world resembling Ancient China where she becomes the Priestess of Suzaku.I love pretty much everything about this series.
We meet Miaka, get her backstory, travel to Konan and meet Tamahome (the hero) Emperor Hotohori and Nuriko - that's three of the Suzaki 7 found before we've even finished the first book!Some people might find the bubble-headed Miaka a tad annoying but you can't help but sympathise because she has such a good heart.
Tamahome, the gorgeous but mercenary hero, the pretty-boy emperor Hotohori and the manly bitch Nuriko.
Here is the actual review.So, my thoughts start here.For some reason, this book gave a good atmosphere.
(It might be improved in the later volumes) Miaka isnt  that  annoying but she has to learn some manners.
Miaka and Tahahome  should not  be together .
Miaka just fell in love the moment she saw him.
Real love isnt like this.
No, not like this.MAN, EVERY MALE CHARACTER FALLS IN LOVE WITH HER.
WHY.The reason I gave this 2 stars instead of 1 , is because its fun to read.
I felt like reading it somehow.
