https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124718.One_Man_s_Wilderness
I am in no way a DIY'er, nor do I have any desire to live off the grid without today's modern conveniences, but I loved reading about the simplistic life that Dick lived during his time in Alaska.The book is based on Dick's daily journals of the first 16 months of his life in Twin Lakes; building his cabin (from the ground up, hand tools only please), hunting, fishing and gardening; simplistic meals he's prepares for himself, his excursions exploring his new "neighborhood" and meeting his new wildlife neighbors.
A great read about an inspiring man.
In the late 70's, Rich Proenneke went to Alaska to live in the wilderness.
He lived there from his mid fifties until his late 80's.
Near the end of the book, he shares his reflections and writes "I wonder how many things in the average American home could be eliminated if the question were asked "Must I really have this?" It si surprising how comfortable a hard bunk can be after you come down off a mountain.I just season simple food with hunger.I enjoy working for my heat.
Sam Keith, the author of this book, has taken Richard Proenneke's daily journals, recorded from his sixteen month stay during 1968-1969 alone in the Alaskan wilderness, and set them into a book.
After the two month construction of his cabin and its interior furnishings, Proenneke is free to spend more time fishing, hunting for necessary food and observing the fauna and flora around him.
Some of the birds came to eat from his hand.Proenneke is not living completely solitary.
He does use tar paper and polyethylene plastic in the construction of his cabin.
Beautiful story of a man who lived 16 months in the deep isolated forest of Alaska. He built his own cabin and everything with his bare hands. He really lived his dream in an amazing way, I wish I could do something like that!
I picked this book up at a bookstore and finished it on the plane on the way home.
At home, I keep picking it up to look at the amazing pictures.
I looked around my house when I got home and was again reminded of the amount of "stuff" I have unnecessarily collected and the complexity of my daily life.
Keith's soothing renderings of Proenneke's Journals are a marriage of artistic observation and raw understanding (and understatement) of the nature of wilderness life.
Did anyone notice the amazing coincidence in that Keith and Proenneke, both old men at the end, died within a month of each other?
This is a remarkable story of a man who goes into the wilds of Alaska to build a cabin to live in.
I would love to have 10% of the craftsmanship that Richard has.
Richard was off the grid before anyone at HGTV or Discovery was even born!
After reading this book, I've added a visit to his cabin in Lake Clark National Park to my bucket list.
He built his cabin before it was a National Park, but left it to the park service and all of us late in his life.

It's about a 50 year-old man who moves from Iowa to Alaska in the early 1970's to build a cabin with no modern tools and attempt to live out there in the wilderness.
It makes the book feel it is ONLY written for men, because apparently only men can understand wanting to live in the wilderness.
And he's so adorably humble.Most of the book, is detailing how he built his cabin, hunted, cooked, made tools, made warmer clothes, weathered out bad weather, bears, etc.Moreover, some of the simple prose and appreciation of nature is absolutely wonderful:"I have found that some of the simplest things have given me the most pleasure.
I think this is more of a guy book. The best chapters were the last two. Other than that a lot of the book is just him explaining in detail how he makes his cabin, tools etc...
Richard Proenneke, Navy carpenter and mechanic, fulfills ambition to live in Alaskan wilderness for a yearSlow paced, simple language describing slow paced, simple, deliberate livingdescribes building his log cabin, interactions with wildlife, travelling around the lakes on foot and in canoe, the progress of the seasons -you can get lost in the rhythm of the wordswatched some samples on youtube from the PBS documentary 'Alone in the Wilderness' afterwards, although reading the book, rarely got the sense that he felt he was alonealso, regular supply runs from local pilot help with contact and with necessities“I enjoy working for my heat.
When Richard Proenneke was 51 years old he decided to retire from his job, move to the wilderness of Alaska, build a log cabin and live off the land.
This is his story (at least the first few years of his story) - how he moved there, build the cabin, built a new life and thrived.So let me say that he did what has always been a dream for me so...I probably liked this book a lot more than most people.
I can tell you everything he did those first few years in Alaska but I can't tell you why he did them because he didn't allow us that insight into his life.
Jason and I bought these books for our dads last year after we saw the PBS special, which was awesome.
Dads loved the books and sent them back to us to read.
Jason just finished it and suddenly has ideas about building all of our own furniture from FS land scraps.
If we were living in a rustic log cabin, I'd be all for it.
But, just can't see it fitting into our modular home decor.
True, true the odyssey adds to the growing list of reasons to get to AK.If you promise to send it back, you can borrow our copy Troy.
A great, no-nonsense journal about building and living a life in the wilderness.
I realized when I opened the book that I had seen the documentary a few years ago...but I am so glad I actually read his journal. His observational skills and natural curiosity were inspiring not to mention his building and problem solving abilities. This is a rare book that captures a landscape and ecology in simple language that does not distract from the setting. What a great birthday present!!!
Chores are easier if forethought is given to them and they are looked upon as little pleasures to perform instead of inconveniences that steal time and try the patience.”2.
“To look around at what you have accomplished in day gives a man a good feeling.
The world is full of such things.”Later on the day that he left his cabin behind for the first time in sixteen months, Proenneke recorded this in his journal: “That night during a gathering at Babe’s place, I felt a civilized cold germ taking hold.” He didn’t stay away long and spent most of the next thirty years in the cabin on Twin Lakes.
The main topics of the book are building progress and techniques, hunting and gathering, and exploring the scenic mainly frigid (think dark winter sub -40F) countryside.
He writes about the satisfaction of creating this, to him, wondrous living environment all by himself.
After reading this it made me reflect that authors writing books have much in common with Sam Keith.
Writing books for the most part does not at its core seem to be a "team sport".
It is only when the creative writing process is done that networked team building of any sort comes into play.
Dick Proenneke lived in his cabin for 30+ years and presumably took photos and film and kept journals the whole time.
The confusion of this book lies in what belongs to Dick Proenneke and what belongs to Sam Keith.
I mostly did not notice, but in the photo sections the captions shifted from "Dick" to "I" and back again and that's one of the few times it was apparent that someone other than Proenneke was involved.
The epilogue was beautiful, and the author photo (of Sam Keith) is...
What a Daunting JourneyDick Proenneke was a unique man among his peers I am honored to have learned about his choices and peeked into his mind.
Absolutely fabulous...but, I've changed my plan. I want to live in Alaska but have someone else bore through the ice to get my water, kill & skin my game, and shovel snow.

This is a lovely balm of a read. His clear descriptions of his work to build and maintain is cabin and his serene enthusiasm for the nature around him are a pleasure to read. His joy at living in the wilderness is charming. It's a nice companion to the equally compelling PBS special that features the film he shot of his Alaska home.
Long before there was YouTube, selfies, or vlogs, Dick Proenneke was filming his life in the Alaskan wilderness.
He moved to Alaska in 1968.
He was in his early fifties and a retired diesel mechanic.
I’ve seen the video, “Alone in the Wilderness” a couple of times on PBS and didn’t realize there was also a book.
It’s hard to believe that a diesel mechanic could be such an entertaining writer!
The book covers the first 18 months of his life after moving to Alaska.
His absolute joy in living a self-sufficient life in the wilderness made this a wonderful read.
The book started out a little dry for me because it's pretty much a very short summary (I believe there is a fuller version of his diaries, but this one has been edited) of his day to day work on the cabin and changes in the weather and landscape as the seasons change, as well as animal sightings.
Dick decided to take the calf home to his cabin because he figured the mother probably didn't make it.
Proenneke built a cabin in the Alaskan Wilderness on the edge of a lake using only hand tools and his ingenuity.
This book describes the detail of building that cabin with no power tools.
Proenneke was flown into the cabin spot with his tools and supplies for a month or so.
During the next 5 months, we follow through words and pictures the building of that cabin.
The world is full of such things."If you have always wondered what it would be like to build an isolated cabin with minimal tools, this is the book.
This is a book about a man who wanted to fulfill his dream of living off the land, Richard Proenneke.
This book would be good for anyone who likes the outdoors, and building/ working with his/ her hands.
I would give this book five stars.On May 17th, 1968, Richard Proenneke decided to fulfill his dream of living off the wilderness.
The book takes place in Alaska, where Richard Proenneke builds his cabin.
Richard Proenneke the main character started to build his cabin when he was in his fifties.
Richard wanted to full fill his dream of living off the wilderness, and he did it for nearly thirty years.
The author (that is, Pronneke, about whom the book was written, not Keith, who compiled and edited it) was 50 years old in 1969 when he decided to live up in Alaska in a cabin he built himself.
I imagine this book's popularity spread like wildfire when it hit the shelves in the time of back-to-the-land and nostalgic anachronistic skill sets.This is great escapist fantasy, especially for men.
If McCandless had had Pronneke's skills, wisdom, and foresight, he'd probably be alive today.Being away from people (and internet!
First and foremost Dick tells and shows how to be a man, a manly man, secondly Dick tells you how good you can do on your own, that you dont always have to belong to a group or a tribe, third he shows the true colors of nature and how to live in it without falling into idiotic romantic notions, fourth he shows that even at the old age of 51 life is not over, family or kids dont have to give your life a meaning, you can simply pack your bags, educate yourself and start life anew.
Know this name, watch his documentaries and tell others about him.
At an age where manhood is under attack from all sides, men like Dick stand out tall as prime examples.
LOVED this book!
This is a marvelous story woven by Sam Keith, of the journals of his life-long friend Richard Proenneke, on his adventure into the Alaskan Bush.
Beginning in the spring of 1968, already middle-aged Dick set off on his life's adventure.
Proenneke kept a written, film, and photo journal of his experience, beginning with the selection of a cabin site and the felling of spruce logs for the cabin the summer before (1967).
Proenneke's experience was ultimately documented in the and another book, as well as a famous film, "Alone in the Wilderness." His life's story is renowned in Alaska, especially among outdoors men and women.
I have admired this man, Richard Proenneke, for many, many, many years.
This man has achieved everything I have ever wanted to do, but for one life occurrence or another, never got the chance.
To live back in a time, even the 50's and 60's, to glass a piece of land and say, "This is where I will build my future." must have been the ultimate feeling of freedom.
listen to me, give this a chance.
then you will feel what Mr. Proenneke lived.
This was his life for 35 years, and to read his thoughts was, for me, the greatest satisfaction i could have ever felt.
