https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61181.The_Ringworld_Engineers
1. Some Non-Trivial Calculus As the MIT students sang back in 1971:Oh, the Ringworld is unstablethe Ringworld is unstabledid the best that they were ableand it's good enough for me!People who want the details should check out Non-Linear Dynamics of Ringworld Systems, by Colin McInnes (http://eprints.gla.ac.uk/38/1/JIBS_C_...). It'sfascinating. If you like that kind of thing. 2. The Puppeteer Shock Doctrine See, they engineered this disaster so that the Friedmanite Puppeteer government could for
As the MIT students sang back in 1971:Oh, the Ringworld is unstablethe Ringworld is unstabledid the best that they were ableand it's good enough for me!People who want the details should check out Non-Linear Dynamics of Ringworld Systems, by Colin McInnes (http://eprints.gla.ac.uk/38/1/JIBS_C_...).
See, they engineered this disaster so that the Friedmanite Puppeteer government could force the Ringworlders to reorganize their economy according to strict monetarist principles in order to quality for an IMF loan, thus immediately creating...Hey, Naomi!
how about putting in some sex with a bunch of non-human but, you know, sexy creatures?
Perhaps some of them could be, hm, vampires?Thanks, Manny, good idea!
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Wireheads: "The Ringworld Engineers" by Larry Niven(Original Review, 1980-12-20)Reading some people's complaints about unpleasant events in SF (e.g. Louis Wu becoming a wirehead in "The Ringworld Engineers") reminded me of an article in Analog some time back. It was written by a founder of a company that would keep you in cryogenic storage until a cure was found for your disease, or the Messiah came or a John Bircher became president or whatever was your heart's desire.
The story picks up the pace, quickly reunited Louis with Chmeee so that they can all go find the Repair Centre and save the Ringworld.I like the pacing, and the intensity, and the sense of delayed urgency.
They have a little more than a year to save the Ringworld, which seems like a lot of time, but they don't actually know where the Repair Centre is.
Then Louis is faced with a moral dilemma: can he kill 5 per cent of the Ringworld's inhabitants in order to save the rest?
Like its predecessor, Ringworld, I really liked the overall ideas of this book: a massive, artificial, circular world that needs saving, varied hominid species filling all ecological niches, non-humanoid alien species that act in a truly alien manner, and a hodgepodge group of heroes.
However, the main character, Louis Wu, is portrayed as God's gift to any female hominid; if it's anatomically possible for him to sleep with someone, he does, basically.
Overall, the book was mostly entertaining and had some interesting evolutionary and engineering ideas, but I got so sick of Louis Wu, Sex God, that I finished reading more out of obligation that interest.
The sequel to Ringworld, this has a better story.
The characters go on an adventure in which they explore, experience and come into conflict with a lot more people.
This book explains a lot of the mysteries found in the first book, and introduces more.
Niven fixes some engineering and ecological gaps that were left in the original, and expands greatly on the plot found in the first book.
His storytelling is better in this sequel, and he uses his first book very successfully as a springboard to a much more complex and interesting story.
We get up close and personal with many of those inhabitants, to which Niven spices them up by infusing elements of evolutionary biology.
Niven does a good job in offering interesting puzzles to solve and new players to help or hinder our old friends.
Character development actually exists in Engineers, as well as character twists that some might not see coming.Ringworld was an unbelievable ride into exploring the unknown in a contained, but exponentially massive environment.
Ringworld Engineers does not have much of that facet, but it prevails as a strong sequel that moves towards typical space opera fare.
There were lots of good ideas but most of them were just set out without any kind of proper foreshadowing or setup.Take the origins of humanity (and the creators of Ringworld) - what would be a huge, fascinating reveal in any well-written tome - it's a huge flop here, an afterthought.
Again, most of the ideas are fascinating, but the execution tends to feel half-assed, like this was just a 'phone it in' book.
This book is an excellent squeal in that it answers almost every question that came to mind after people were done reading the first one. This book is about a voyage back to Ringworld, it gives much more detailed information on the Ringworld, and tells what happens to some old characters like Teela as well. If you were lucky enough to experience the first one, then you must experience the second.
Este es el segundo libro de la serie Mundo Anillo,me ha gustado mas ya que no solo son descripciones
Jaké to štěstí, že jsem se ke knize dostal! Pro fanouška SF radost číst. Technologickou stránku věci má vymakanou, občas až k nesrozumitelnosti.
(2013 was turning into a stale year for SF. That summer, I really needed the solace of good, hard SF to escape, if just fleetingly, some harsh realities, same reality having given me long days and nights to read and listen. So, without really making a decision to do so but compelled by circumstances, I started a re-read of the Ringworld series. The publication history of the series was such that one book came out every ten years, on average. And so each book read provided a reflection of a deca
The most prominent of these was the instability of the structure, so loudly proclaimed by MIT students; it needed constant adjustment via attitude jets to stay centered on its sun.
And of course, the nature of the engineers - with the powerful technology at their disposal, why build a ring at all rather than, say, exploring neighboring stars or a less rigorous design such as orbiting platforms.
(view spoiler)[To the instability, he posits attitude jets fueled the ring's own sun.
(hide spoiler)]In this re-read, after some 30 years, made more rewarding having also re-read Ringworld just a few days ago, I enjoyed the book even more than the first time.
I wasn't sure if I wanted to read this book to start with because of the change to Louis Wu's circumstances at the start of the novel (he's a junkie, addicted to the pure pleasure of electrical stimulation of the brain).
Perhaps his escape from addiction was a little too easy, but, as I've said, we know from the previous book that Louis has a very strong will.The return to the Ringworld itself is interesting if not novel.
As the series progresses, I continue to enjoy Niven's clear style of writing. He makes the hard science interesting. We learn more about the Ringworld and get a little deeper into the character Louis Wu. While I recommend this as an enjoyable read, I couldn't give it more than 3 stars because of the predictable plot. But there are enough surprises and revelations to entertain the Ringworld / Niven fan.As an example of what I like about Niven is the scene where the puppeteer looks into his own eye. You gota love it, right?
I didn't love Ringworld. It was with much goading that I read the second one. With so much love for the series, I do wish that I liked it more. But I had fewer instances in this volume where I felt bored. I have not yet connected strongly to the characters, and I'm still a bit put out by the tendency for women in the series to be relegated largely to the role of thing for the main make characters to have sex with.
Another excellent book in the Ringworld series. Niven writes an easy to read but engrossing SiFi Story. Very recommended
The feeling is too much of a sequel and it's so uneventful and unsurprising that all I could say would be spoiling.
I was really captivated by the fisrt so I went ahed of my self and bought the second and third book.
The Ringworld was such a great idea that it become the prison (so far) for the narrative and the characters, it's like all the imagination was confined to this construction and nothing could escaped its limits and premise.
I will defenitely take a look at the third but I doubt that I will purchase the next ones.
I like the continued exploration of the ring. More details about the people and the ring itself really expand the world. I also found it interesting how the origin of the ring was explained as well as how it tied to humans.I think it’s cool how the author took analysis and input from the fans of the first book and incorporated them into the story.
The first book may have taken certain things for granted that weren't sketched out fully enough for me to appreciate the nuances of characters, places, events, whereas I felt this book did a better job of introducing ideas from the background shared by the Known Space books.
There is one major figure from the first book that is re-introduced at a time and place in the novel that won't have quite the impact it ought to if you didn't at least read the first book, but otherwise, the effort here to tie in previous works is done more gracefully than in the first.Moreover, I felt the first book merely presented an IDEA that was very compelling, but no narrative arc worth investing in.
Niven is great in combining the can do spirit of classical SF with modern physics and has the imagination and knowledge to make up something like the titular Ringworld and people it with the most fantastic inhabitant.
And both the Kzin, the Puppeteer and some of the human races treat women as breeders mostly), and also the sexual politics (Niven has an imaginative idea of sex between different kinds of humans, and everybody is more than willing to sleep with the protagonist because of it, and his lust is something that must be satisfied at any cost).
My biggest complaint is that the falling action at the end feels very forced, as if the publisher was begging him to write a book, not a brick.
It felt like there was more to tell, and we only got four pages.Again, I think that other books have done the "new world" concept better, and the writing here is not as good.
Niven has too many convenient moments when an explanation of the universe comes up at just the right time.
If you write with an overall concept, rather than write yourself into a corner, your "wow!" moments feel much more natural and much less forced.
I can hardly remember the original Ringworld anymore (it's been a few years already), but I really hope it was much more better than this.
Pointless sex scenes, the humans will solve everything (the sci-fi version of Americans solve everything), we'll also figure out vastly superior (or not?) technologies just by looking at them really hard, and also, let me think, where to put the spaceship's hyper-drive?
And all this in a story that pretty much isn't leading anywhere, well nowhere interesting at least.I think if i wasn't trying to be kind I might just say this was utter crap mediocre pulp fiction sci-fi.
In Ringworld, he dares to think bigger than just creating a universe -- he creates sentient beings powerful enough to create a solar systems and he builds solar systems unlike any other.
In the process, he also creates a mystery that keeps you looking for answers that he never provides....
until Ringworld Engineers.Ringworld Engineers takes on the challenge of answering questions about Ringworld.
Ringworld Engineers is well thought out, intricate, hard science at it's best.
Larry's especially good at creating aliens with unique detail and complex personalities.
Una bastante buena continuación del terriblemente original Mundo Anillo, un gigantesca construcción circular que gira alrededor de un sol y, en su superficie, aloja una superficie equivalente a miles de planetas enteros, con una enorme diversidad de vida.
A diferencia de un planeta, que está en orbita alrededor de su sol, el Mundo Anillo gira sobre un plano para mantener su forma pero puede facilmente derivar en ese plano y cruzar la trayectoria de su sol y destruirse.
Al mismo tiempo, elementos no develados sobre el origen del mundo anillo en el primer libro se conocen con más precisión aqui.
Sure, there was interesting material presented in many chapters and interesting problems to solve on occasion, but the novel was way too episodic: Go somewhere new, discover some problem, then have a sudden and fortuitous event, condition, or insight occur to magically fix everything, allowing the character to leave; end the chapter.
It became dull.I was especially disappointed after having read the author's introduction and dedication: that this book was supposed to be specifically crafted for those who read the first Ringworld book and had additional technical questions remaining.
Perhaps the introduction set me up more for a technical manual than a novel.
Niven's first sequel to his classic Ringworld fully lives up to the standard of the original.
Here we see the cultures and the engineering of the Ringworld in finer detail than before, all framed by a more plot-driven narrative.
We also get a nice look into the psychology of Pak Protectors via a surprise guest appearance.
The most difficult-to-swallow aspect of the The Ringworld Engineers is the persistent recurrence of rishathra scenes.
However, considering the types of things you can find on the internet these days, Niven might have been on to something.
The Ringworld series continues with this book, The Ringworld Engineers.
Some of the same characters appear from the first novel, most prominently, Louie Wu and Chmeee.
I thought this book was a little confusing and had too much rishathra (sexual practice outside one's own species), which had nothing to do with furthering the story.
I do like the characters and I do like the attempt to explain the Ringworld's potential real existence through science, so I find that very interesting, but I was hoping for a better story.


Este autor está banido das minhas opções de leitura, até ao fim dos tempos.Li este livro baseado na promessa (explícita no título claramente enganoso) de que, finalmente, o autor desvendaria (de verdade...
algo que justificasse a leitura de recheio de chouriços) o mistério acerca dos construtores do "Ringworld", e a razão (convincente) para a existência de tamanho artefacto.
Eu devia ter aprendido com o primeiro livro.Bem, com se costuma dizer: à primeira, quem quer cai.
À segunda, só cai quem quer.
À terceira, só cai quem é burro.Fico-me pelo segundo livro (devia ter seguido o instinto e ficado pelo primeiro).
Meh. This should be titled "Louis Wu Fucks His Way Around The Ringworld". I found it tedious, especially towards the end. Not even sure exactly how it ended since I mostly skim read the last few chapters just to be done with it. I don't think Niven's books are for me. I especially find his use of names/labels to be discourteous to his readers. It doesn't add a lick of depth or interest to have difficult to pronounce or long names, or refer to characters by different names at different times, it only stops the flow of the story.
