https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/99713.A_Coney_Island_of_the_Mind
Sure there were other poems, some by arguably better poets—the lyric (and ironic) Byronisms of Corso, the Shelleyan ecstasies of McClure, the prophetic lamentations of Ginsberg, the zen eclogues of Snyder—but none of the others embodied so perfectly their vision of their world: sceptical of all institutions, yet open to the experience of joy and suffering—with a painter’s eye, a mystic’s soul, and a lover’s heart.The first third of the book, entitled “A Coney Island of the Mind,” contains a remarkable number of memorable individual passages:
In looking at the book page for this book, I am struck by how many people chose to include one of Ferlinghetti's poems. In my opinion, what that says is that although some of the slanguage and cultural references may be a bit dated, these poems still resonate with people, me included. I bought my copy of this book at City Lights Bookstore in San Francisco, sat, and read it from cover to cover. Almost everyone who reads this book will find a poem that will stay with them a long, long time.
my dad gave me his beat-up copy of Coney Island when i was in junior high, and showed me "11" the poem he'd recited for his forensics team when he was in high school. that poetry could be that natural, funny and defiant shocked me, and i've been hooked ever since. this one is up there on the list of books that changed my life.
One of the greatest influences of my teen years. Meeting and working with him in 1984 was an experience I'll never forget. Yeah, I still have my "ancient" copy of this book from the 1950's!
in honor of one of my favorite beat poets, i will write this review without touching the shift keyand, of course, my thumb readily on the space taba collection of interesting visual poetry don't need to snap your fingers or wear blackor have a set of bongosfluid writing, cool fluidly throughout read over and overand over again
Leggendo queste poesie sembra di perdersi in un lungo viaggio in cui, dopo aver condotto tutto quello che si pensava di essere al di la della propria comfort zone, ci si accorge della vastità del nostro mondo interiore e in quella scoperta si trova la ragione stessa per affrontare una nuova idea di ritorno e di casa.
BY LAWRENCE FERLINGHETTIIn Golden Gate Park that daya man and his wife were coming alongthru the eno
the guy wrote a poem where marc chagall's mom is yelling at him. "but hekept right onpainting"i love how sweet ferlinghetti's poems are. i don't think he means them to be. but they are.
I am WaitingI am waiting for my case to come up and I am waiting for a rebirth of wonder and I am wa
I often feel like I live in an all-too-illiterate society (hence my enthusiasm for Goodreads' counterbalance) & reading a bk at all, esp 1 that references many other writers & artists, is ultimately what probably makes me feel like I'm in the company of friends - even though I only 'know' most or all of these people thru their works.
Ferlinghetti is, of course, the cofounder of City Lights bks & a publisher - as well as a writer in many forms.
There're probably people who wd find poetry read along w/ jazz to be a sad cliché of a bygone age - for me, these recordings are utterly wonderful.
I am leading a quiet life in Mike’s Place every dayI hear America singing in the Yellow Pages.
I am leading a quiet life in Mike’s Place every day watching the champs of the Dante Billiard Parlor and the French pinball addicts.
I am leading a quiet life on lower East Broadway.
I read the American Boy Magazine and became a boy scout in the suburbs.
I saw Lindbergh land.
I have seen the garbagemen parade in the Columbus Day Parade behind the glib farting trumpeters.
I am leading a quiet life outside of Mike’s Place every day watching the world walk by in its curious shoes.
In high school and into college it was Rachel, artist, fabricator of her own clothing, the girl down the block.
Ferlinghetti was just a name to me, a representative of the older generations, a representative of the Beats.Frankly, I wasn't much impressed, not like I had been with Ginsberg, not like I wss with the more conventional, and usually philosophic and/or romantic, poets we read in school.I left Rachel and Park Ridge for college that late summer, staying faithful to the romantic ideal of her until another girl, a virtual stranger, contrived to impose her own romantic ideal and have her way with me.
Att läsas experimentellt till (inre) jazz.En favorit är Autobiography.#BOTNS bokbingo: 'Has a place-name in the title'
30)(to see the poem in all its glory, view it here: http://www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/...)The second part is written in a more straightforward style, which the author explains in the preface..."These seven poems were conceived specifically for jazz accompaniment and as such should be considered as spontaneous spoken 'oral messages' rather than as poems written for the printed page...."Consequently, the poems from the second part are my least favourite.
29)(to see the poem in all its glory, view it here: http://www.poetryfoundation.org/poem/...)Ferlinghetti is one of the most influential American poets of the 20th century, both for his poetry and his publisher (City Light Books).
I am waiting for the rebirth of wondershe loved to look at flowersI am waitingJohnny Nolan has a patch on his assThe world is a beautiful place it is heavenly weatherThey were putting up the statue of St. Francis Christ climbed down the Dog at the pennycandystore beyond the El and one enters a completely different worldDon't let that horse run away with that violin
I like Ferlinghetti for his rhythm, humor, and creative use of white space.
He uses this to great effect in works like "Johnny Nolan has a patch on his ass," where the text mirrors the rhythm and action of the poem.This volume is an odd mix of political, sexual, and comical.
The middle section of this book is dedicated to poetry meant to be spoken aloud with jazz accompaniment, and thus considered to be unfinished and in flux.
This was my first book of poetry. A gift from my college professor uncle. I read it right away, eager to break away from the school-taught (to this day!) Frost/Poe/Dickinson monotony. Don't get me wrong, they were great, but I suspected there was more out there and I was right. Ferlinghetti was the beginning for me. Incidentally, Uncle John also gave me a little text called "Revenge of the Lawn," which I just finally cracked last week after it stayed in storage since high school. Sorry, Richard, I mean, Mr. Brautigan.
Lawrence Ferlinghetti might be one of the lesser known Beats, which is unfortunate. Although I generally do not like poetry, this is one book that's been on my shelf since high school. My admiration for Ferlinghetti resulted in visiting his City Lights Bookstore when I was in San Francisco ten or so years ago. I had hoped to run into him, but was not successful; however, just being in his world was enough for me. I periodically page through this book and re-read his poems and take pleasure in their imagery and cadence.
In "A Coney Island of the Mind"Ferlinghetti's poetry is totally mind blowing and unbelievably still seems quite current...A masterpiece!!
Clearly, this is one of the most wonderful and important collections of American poetry yet written. Ferlinghetti is, in my view, king of the Beat Era poets.
This is a perfect book for people interested in exploring the world of poetry. I know quite a few people who got hooked on the genre through this book.
Surreal, romantic, hopeful and somewhat despairing. Some primo pieces of work evocative of the psychology of the latter 50s to early 60s, with the Cold War and the onset of the hippie movement.
Not reading this is UnAmerican. Really.
Every bookish malcontent in the world gets all hot and bothered by the Beats, and that's fine, of course, but Lawrence Ferlinghetti is one of the major poets of the movement and he gets overlooked quite often.
Corso's all shabby and grungy and resentful, a bitter minor voice if there ever was one, and he says something to Ferlinghetti to the effect of "Jack and Allen got famous, we didn't!" Which is of course, true, at least in a commercial sense, not to mention posterity.Ferlinghetti nods and responds with admirable poise and grace: "I know.
That decision promptly landed him in court, but Freedom of the Press eventually prevailed.Most of the Beat poets were unceasingly dreary and dark - the nickname "Beats" came not from the rhythm of their works, but from the feeling they had of being beaten down by society until they were "down so long it looked like up." Ferlinghetti, however, used a strong sense of absurdity to communicate his contempt for a society to whom the downtrodden were invisible.
Also, I think his poems have a marvelous internal rhythm.It was published in the mid 1960s, I think, but you could find print copies on Amazon the last time I looked.
Coney Island?
It was noises and images and an America you’d hope to find out on the east coast boardwalk of the great arcade known as Coney Island.
It has the wisdom of, “Who gives a shit?” And it has the heart of a romantic, one you can tie down, one that you’re not sure you even want to see tied down.
It’s not a wild heart though.
It’s just has a fluttering quality to it.
Actually, this whole book read like a drinking buddy rambling inspiration, but you don’t know if it’s a big joke.
It’s that light-hearted while being that serious and insightful.
(read the rest here) I'm not really sure how people in 1958 easily digested this book of poetry without the internet at their fingertips.
Here we have the heroine of a fantasy novel on scrutiny:funny fantasies are never so real as oldstyle romances where the hero has a heroine who has  long black braids and lets nobodykiss her ever and everybody's trying all the time torun away with her and the hero is always drawing his(sic) sword and tilting at ginmills and forever telling her he loves her and has only honorable intentions andhonorable mentions and no one ever beats him at anything but finally one day she who has always been so timidoffs with her glove and says (though not in so many big words) Let's lie down somewheres babyToward the end of the book, there's a poem that makes me wonder what Ferlinghetti would be writing today.
Ferlinghetti conducting a symphony of wordscooking a recipe of ideas with pop culture and counter cu
There is going to be a poem that resonates with you. An allegorical collection of poems, 'the author intended it as a sustained metaphor or allegory for modern life'. His use of structure is very note-worthy. It allows the reader to freely read it, changing the meaning of the sentence depending on your intonation. They're smart and witty poems. I liked '15' where he compares a poet to a tightrope walker. Or the one where he describes a drunken hookup, the girl declaring that 'you and I could really exist'.
i slipped this from a top shelf of my parents' floor to ceiling bookshelves when i was 12 years old. i lay on the floor and fell head over heels in love with these words. there is an undeniable current within these pages and these poems stay within the recess of your mind."only the next day she has bad teeth and really hates poetry"the well-worn copy i keep within reach is that same copy i slipped from that shelf.
