https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18854.Three_Guineas
Four score years ago Woolf envisioned a time when the very prospect of members of her sex delivering sermons from the pulpit will not elicit scorn or sneers, when the blonde-wigged, ageing torch-bearers of society would allow women to administer justice, climb the ranks of the distinguished Civil Service and teach young men in universities.
Composed in the format of a letter addressed to a (probably fictional) gentleman (a lawyer) who asked Woolf to help preempt war by making contributions towards the preservation of artistic and intellectual liberty, the essay tries to delve deep into the causality of inequalities both in the public and private spheres and exposes how these inequalities between the sexes and the classes cripple society and foment antipathy and hatred.
This enables Woolf to take a close look at women’s education and women in the professions in constructing her response about war.
The oppression of women in Britain is linked quite clearly to the perpetuation of war and to Continental fascism.
Many editions of Three Guineas don’t include these pictures and that is a significant loss; they give the book an extra dimension.
There are reflections on religion and education as well as war and a close look at how their exclusion of women have contributed to the perpetuation of war.
A three-part answer to the question of how women might prevent war and protect intellectual freedom, Three Guineas features Woolf at her most impassioned: the essayist insists upon women's right to establish and determine the course of their own institutions, in addition to critiquing the links between the patriarchal household, patriotism, and fascism.
So, too, does Woolf here in part acknowledge the specific social position from which she writes, making the work read as more honest and complex than A Room of One's Own. The fast pace at which Woolf moves, as well as her uncharacteristically candid language, betrays the desperation she must have felt as she watched Europe inch ever closer to another world war.
look, fuck these clowns, all right?The point being that Virginia Woolf's rhetoric here is masterful, even as it's obvious she had to play the "don't get mad, no actually don't get emotional at all, the men on the side of patriarchal thinking can get as emotional as they want but you as an opponent of it absolutely cannot, that is OUR territory, &c., &c." which she herself addresses in the wonderful passage about "infantile fixation" in some of the men of the 19th century.
…it matters not just because women win. It matters because it means we have a seat at the table. And everybody in this room knows the basic rule, if you don’t have a seat at the table, you are probably on the menu.—Senator Elizabeth Warren This is my seventh Woolf. I own ten more. It is not often that I unconsciously commit myself so thoroughly to a single author, for when I was young and did not have recourse to Goodreads for purposes of planning out further successful reads, I followed each a
To forgo feminism for humanism is to imply that the millenia of centuries do not matter, we have not really come very far at all with our ability to not only survive but propagate, to not only propagate but to control, to not only control but to enhance, to not only enhance to progress, due to the fact that this movement is for the sake of women and women, as we all know, are the half of the population of humanity that is composed of objects.
Virginia Woolf's essays on on a letter to a long unanswered letter asking her to join a society on the prevention of war.
Woolf plays (lived) the role of a "daughter of an educated man." This indicates that she herself is not a recognized person but rather a part or extension of another.
Woolf covers three main topics in her essays -- Prevention of War, Education, and the employment of women.
The prevention of war and education for women blend nicely together.
Women in allowed employment roles earn significantly less than men for the same positions.
For unlike Virginia Woolf who waited three years to answer the question how can women prevent war, I can't wait that long for me to understand what is happening in the south of the Philippines where Filipinos are fighting with the Malaysians over a property called Sabah.
Can women possess independent opinion to influence a society in need of peace and can they form women's groups to preserve their culture and experiment on better solutions?If there's still war, then we women have much to do.
V. WOOLF: *drops mic*
But alas, I don't believe she does.The premise of it is this: a man writes a letter to VW asking her how the daughters of educated men, having won the vote and the right to enter the professions, might help to prevent war.
Woolf questions how, after only 60 years of opportunity, an educated man can possibly ask women to make up for centuries of silence and step confidently into a position that enables them to provide economic and political support to preventing the oncoming war.
However, I liked the following excerpts as typical of her fine, unique and rare arguments:We can say that for educated men to emphasize their superiority over other people, either in birth or intellect, by dressing differently, or by adding titles before, or letters after their names are acts that rouse competition and jealousy -- emotions which, as we need scarcely draw upon biography to prove, nor ask psychology to show, have their share in encouraging a disposition towards war.
34)So, Sir, if you want us to help you to prevent war the conclusion seems to be inevitable; we must help to rebuild the college which, imperfect as it may be, is the only alternative to the education of the private house.
Written during the Spanish Civil War, and as Hitler and Mussolini moved to extend their dominion, Woolf receives a letter from a pacifist organization asking for her membership, her financial donation, and her opinion on how our society can prevent the brutal violence that the enclosed photos of murdered Spanish children and burnt homes indicate.Woolf's response, in the form of a series of letters, is this book.Her reflection is still timely.
My annotated Harvest Books edition includes facsmiles of Woolf's extensive notebooks, where she pasted letters, news clippings, and the like; much of it is her source material for Three Guineas.
First and foremost she posits that since men are the ones who throughout history have been the killers of men as well as animals, the premise that men and women have come to this point in human history somehow equally to blame is flawed to say the least.
Second, if you seriously want women to be a part of the solution, stop preventing them from educating themselves.
I particularly liked her examples of how a father was aghast at the idea of their daughter taking a part time teaching job.
Basically in a society where women weren't even allowed to leave the home alone, how can they be expected with any seriousness to respond to a question about preventing war?
Phenomenal. Virginia Woolf at her best. It's too bad so much of the content is still relevant!
Any educated woman should read it and cherish it forever, as a reminder of what it used to be and of how far we have come.
Most importantly, it should serve as a reminder that, to the present day, not every woman on earth has the right to education that we so easily take for granted.
And finally, this book should be used as weapon from the educated women of today to conquer and grant the same right to education to every other woman on earth.
Because, to put it like VW, "As woman, I have no country.
As woman, my country is the whole world".
After reading most of Virginia Woolf novels (except for one) I have decided to move on to her non-fiction works.
Wasn't really a fan of this topic, I mean it was interesting, but if it was written by someone else I wouldn't bother to read Three Guineas.This is long essay about giving women the right to have a good college education to maybe prevent wars from starting or giving anyone the proper education to see that war is bad.
Woolf herself was a feminist and she was against wars.
She never had the money for an education and she read books above her age limit as a girl.
This is a great feminist rant about the disgusting nature of male interference in women's education and how women could prevent war.
She also takes a few deft stabs at fascism and patriotism, in searing Woolf style.
It makes me sad that so much of this is still relevant.
I even kept forgetting that this was written in the 20th Century and not in the 18th or 19th...
a lot has changed, but there's still ingrained remnants of this attitude remaining in society.I liked A Room of One's Own more, as this became a bit too repetitive at times, but it is well worth the read.
Where in short is it leading us...?""...question the value of professional life - not its cash value; that is great; but its spiritual, its moral, its intellectual value...if people are highly successful in their professions they lose their senses.
Sight goes.
They have no time to look at pictures.
Sound goes.
They have no time for conversation.
They lose their sense of proportion - the relations between one thing and another.
Humanity goes.
Money making becomes so important that they must work by night and by day.
What then remains of a human being who has lost sight, sound, and sense of proportion?

I read this book in college, and fell in love with it. I love her almost anthropological analysis of men, education, and war - the decorations of university students in robes compared to the medals and uniforms in the military, how ornamentation and pride play a role in the cause of war. Woolf's nonfiction writing has more of an appeal to me; in these works, she uses her observations and descriptive writing to convince an audience.
It's a really great book! I enjoyed reading it!
Virginia Woolf while tackling how Britain could refrain from going to war makes the connection between fascism and the oppression of women.
Three Guineas is no exception.Even though a couple of her arguments are a little dated, since (even though it sometimes doesn’t feel like it) women have more rights today than they did back then, but the majority of the book still applies to today’s society.Basically, this book is Woolf’s response to a letter she received from a male friend in which he asked her how to prevent war.
Three Guineas is Virginia Woolf's response to a letter from a man asking her how to prevent war, sent during the Spanish Civil War and on the cusp of WWII, when Europe was consumed with anti-fascist and anti-Nazi concerns.
Woolf's response is well articulated and her arguments are easy to follow, even when she follows a point of contention down a convoluted path; her language and writing style are impeccable.
The reality seems to be that women in a patriarchal society cannot do much to prevent war, despite Woolf's assertion that indifference, inaction, and (curiously) the growth of women's sports leagues without trophies can make a difference.
Virginia Woolf originally wrote this as a novel-essay which was to form part of her novel The Pargiters – the original idea to have alternating fiction and non-fiction chapters.
Of course in the end Woolf re-thought this idea and The Pargiters became The Years, the non-fiction sections removed to become Three Guineas.The essay is essentially a series of letters – letters which serve to answer the question of how war could be prevented.
Che cos'è il femminismo, o meglio questo movimento, questo impeto doloroso delle donne che le spinge a cercare giustizia, uguaglianza e libertà?
Virginia Woolf lo definisce un "antifascismo ante-litteram", perché è proprio con il fascismo che l'esperienza di dominazione subita dalle donne diventa comprensibile a tutta l'umanità, e così universale.
Perché le donne sono le "estranee", dimenticate, le dominate nascoste e cancellate della storia.
Virginia Woolf adduce esclusivamente motivazioni stringenti e prove inconfutabili.Questa lotta ne va della giustizia, della libertà e dell'uguaglianza delle donne, e quindi di tutta l'umanità; così come si percepisce l'impeto di pacifismo e di antifascismo, così dovrebbe sgorgare il sentimento di lotta per l'uguaglianza di tutta l'umanità.
Three essays responding to requests for three charitable donations from various progressive causes.
She outlines the conditions with which she makes the donation in each case.
Don't skip the footnotes which make up almost a third the length of the book.
She tucks away several important arguments there, including one in which she takes St Paul completely apart at length, footnoted off of a mere passing mention of the apostle in the main text.
Pity I didn't read it sooner.I think I may be the first person in the history of the world to read this book while seated in an NFL stadium, one eye on the football game.
Su clase posee por derecho propio y no a través del matrimonio, prácticamente todo el capital, todas las tierras, todos los valores y todos los cargos de Inglaterra.
Por propio derecho y no mediante matrimonio, nuestra clase prácticamente carece de capital, de tierras, de valores y cargos en Inglaterra.
De lo cual parece seguir el indiscutible hecho de que «nosotras» —y este «nosotras» significa una unidad integrada por cuerpo, cerebro y espíritu, sometida a la influencia del recuerdo y las tradiciones— forzosamente seguiremos siendo diferentes de «vosotros», cuyo cuerpo, cerebro y espíritu han sido diferentemente educados y son diferentemente influenciados por recuerdos y tradiciones.
Eloquent passages such as this inform and inflame the mind: “The questions that we have to ask and to answer about that procession during this moment of transition are so important that they may well change the lives of men and women forever.
For we have to ask ourselves, here and now, do we wish to join that procession, or don't we?
Above all, where is it leading us, the procession of educated men?...Let us never cease from thinking--what is this "civilisation" in which we find ourselves?
Where in short is it leading us, the procession of the sons of educated men?”
I haven't read any of Woolf's fiction. But her nonfiction is brilliant. This "essay" is a series of letters back-and-forth and explains why, by definition, a woman cannot support state-sponsored aggression. Woolf argues that before women can engage in reform and revolution, the paradigms of this world need to be reformed. This is a man's world, and until it is made for women, too, Woolf argues women canot be agents of change.
If you write Virginia Woolf a letter, you better actually want a response. I can't say this is my favorite read of hers. She makes some very interesting arguments in places but it's hard to read straight through because it feels fairly scattered.
