https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25365683-demelza
I will always be Team Demelza At the back of his mind, Ross was aware of the sound of wind rushing about in the distance. Once, when he glanced out of the bedroom window, his eyes confirmed that the swell had, in fact, quite broken up and the sea was stippled with white-lipped waves, which crossed and recrossed each other in confusion, running heedlessly, colliding, and breaking up into wisps of futile spray. The wind was as yet only gusty on the land, but here and there eddies rushed over the w
I will always be Team Demelza
***A Bit Of Spoilery Below**And wee little Julia was born to Demelza and Ross ♥ I love these characters so much.
Well, not the evil ones but I have to admit they are played wonderfully in their own right.
I am team Demelza all the way.
I don't like Elizabeth and I feel for Demelza that she has to feel second best.
Demelza is selfless.
She knew it was right even when everyone else were being jerks.
Happy Reading!
Mel ♥MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListAMAZON: REVIEW
In this installment, Ross Poldark and Demelza are now happily married and giving birth to their first child, Julia.
Even though Elizabeth is married to Francis, she will never forget that Ross once loved her and she’s determined to create the best marriage and life possible with him, to win his true love.
Demelza’s character matures and grows as she becomes more confident in society and she proves herself to Ross and everyone else equally.Much happens in this installment with the birth of Julia and also Demelza’s persistence with getting Verity coupled with Captain Blamey.
The characters in this book are burdened by real struggles, and a great degree of social unrest exists during this time.
"Demelza was beginning to feel like a lion tamer who has been putting his pets through their paces and finds them getting out of hand." I adore her – a splendid leading woman who does not forget her roots.I highly recommend this series to anyone that enjoys engaging historical fiction with superior character development.
You really must read the series in order, as the story is quite linear in time.
As for the PBS series – yes, I have watched but not in real time.
True, in Ross Poldark they shared some beautifully tender moments during their fledgling romance, but I didn't feel it as much in Demelza.
The one big change though was towards the end when on TV there was a visitor to a sickbed, and Ross's response to it had me all but punching the air in delight; his words were exactly what I'd be wanting to hear and I couldn't wait to re-live that scene in the book, but it wasn't there, it was made up by the adaptation.
I really want to know how the story progresses, but do I wait for the second TV series next year with my Ross and Demelza, or do I carry on with the books that don't hold the same magic?
This is the second book in the Poldark series which was first published back in the 1940's.
The series centers around the life of Ross Poldark, who is a dark and broody character, arrogant and strong, yet often overly compassionate in his nature.
I love Demelza's character.
Alas there are 12 books in the series and I have ten yet to go.
We are hasty -- quite incredibly hasty, it seems -- and sharp-tempered, strong in our likes and dislikes and unreasonable in them."Demelza is the second book in the Poldark Series by Winston Graham.
Ross Poldark, returning to the ruins of his beloved family estate of Nampara, marries the daughter of an impoverished miner.
Ross appears to have married Demelza more out of duty than out of love.
The Poldark Series is far, far more than that.It is solid historical fiction that depicts several generations of people suffering from the receiving end of decisions made at their own hands and by the hands of others.
Really really loving this series, right now! Hard to decide which is better the books or the tv adaption because they are both amazing, for real! Love all the characters, especially Demelza, Ross and Verity...don't really care for Elizabeth, Francis or George much though.
"Ross," she said, "I should like you to make it up with Francis sometime.
I know that sounds a bit strange but his writing just takes me there and it's as if I am living and breathing with all these characters in the late 1700's to the early 1800's.
It made reading it that much sweeter IMO and also offered invaluable detail into the thoughts of Demelza and Ross that can only be realized thru the written word.
I realize I have not actually explained what this book is about, but there are so many aspects to this story (and I am not at all eloquent in my writing of reviews).
The story builds to a crescendo, and even though I knew from watching the TV series exactly what was in store, I was glued to every page and full of emotion by the end.
What I love the most about this story is that every character is fully developed and very real.
They do things without fully understanding the consequences of their actions; they endeavor to right things and frequently make them worse; they love and hate--and sometimes both emotions are thrown at the same individual.
I am not one who generally reads a series.
The show covers the first two books in the series.I fell in love with the world of Poldark as soon as I picked up the first book, Ross Poldark.
Ross is seen as a strong man, a figure within his community, but it is Demelza who begins to impress those around her, and takes centre stage in this brilliant novel.I don't want to give too much away, because the TV show is still ongoing, and I want everyone to read the books.
I was not disappointed when I continued with the story in this second book of the series which really needs to be read in order.As the title states clearly, this is Demelza's book.
Ross and Demelza's marriage and daily life are still center, but the dark clouds of low rates for the copper, tough times for their people, strained relations with their neighbors even family, and most of all, the rising conflict with the Warleggans make for continued page turning.
The second book is this series was every bit as good as the first, and did not disappoint me at all. At this point, I feel as though I live on the Cornish coast with not only the landed gentry, but the miners and their families as well. And now I can watch the first season of this Masterpiece Theater production, which encompasses the first two novels. Still have a crush on Ross, am best friends with his wife, and there's still a lot of characters to hate and gossip about. Good writing takes this family saga over the top.
This is some of the best historical fiction I've read in a while. I loved the characters, the setting, the relationships... everything. Some of the scenes dealing with the copper company were a bit dull but for the most part I loved it.
Demasiado bonico, aunque me han hecho mucho de sufrir.
After reading this second book in the Poldark series I am even more captivated with these characters.
Graham writes naturally, adding no unnecessary details that take you out of the story.
His characters are complex yet entertaining.
The views of the Cornish coastline, written in panoramic detail, are stunning.
Even if I weren't thoroughly bewitched by Demelza Poldark this would be a worthwhile read.But at the heart of this offering is Demelza's story.
This book is a reminder of how uncertain life can be and those who cling to their belief that things will get better will surely endure.
3,5 Soy fan de el personaje de Demelza, pero tanta descripción minera me lo ha hecho algo pesado. Sin embargo, seguiré con los otros aunque sea con calma.
4.5 I'm starting to get attached to these characters. I feel like I know them. I love the poetic writing."The stars moved up the sky, climbing and turning on their endless roundabout. A gentle wind stirred and sighed among the bracken and the brake, stirred and moved and then lay down again to sleep. A cricket began to saw among the gorse, and somewhere overhead a nighthawk cried."I highly recommend for those who like historical fiction!
Re-read was even better than the first time around!
DNFUnfortunately, second book in Poldark series isn't as engaging as first one so I'm putting it aside for now. Hopefully the right mood will strike me one day so I can finish it.
She begins to gain confidence, both in her marriage and within society, finding that she can hold her own against uncharitable people, and discovering, to her amazement, that she has the power to attract men.
Men accepted his integrity where with another they would have asked “What has he to gain?”In the first book, there wasn’t a huge amount of romance in Demelza’s marriage, or if there was, it was a bit one-sided.
In this installment, Ross and his young wife Demelza welcome their first child Julia into the world. Demelza struggles with the status she has married into, but her love for Ross hasn't faded and she remains friends with Verity. However, two bitter feuds, a shocking crime, and an unexpected tradgedy threatens everything.
Cornwall in the end of the 18th century, where people are mainly depending on the tin and copper mines.The story starts when Ross, a young man from the higher classes, but without money, comes back after having fought in the American wars.
There are times when you don’t like him so much, but he always manage to justify the means in the end.Demelza is another fantastic character moulded out of a miner’s daughter and coming to Nampara by coincidence.
She is the one most difficult to get a grasp of.Winston Graham wrote many books, and being so impressed by the way he tells a story, I think it is a must to try some of the rest.
Great continuation of the Poldark series.Review to soon follow
4.5*What an interesting, complicated and very likeable character Demelzer is, she is at the core of 

Un gran libro. Ha sido una lectura muy intensa, complicada de dejar de leer. Demelza sin duda es la gran protagonista aunque Ross sigue siendo el mejor personaje, tan complejo y con tantas aristas y contradicciones...Definitivamente adoro cómo escribe Winston Graham, siempre con la frase perfecta a mano, diciendo lo justo sin florituras y, sin embargo, expresando todo de un modo muy bello y sutil. Adoro la historia, los personajes y lo que he leído. Estoy deseando seguir sus andanzas y sufrir con ellos (porque no hay duda de que se acercan tiempos más revueltos aún)
Demelza, with love in her heart, also champions the side of happiness and true love over the expectations of her husband's class.
I only have a few minor quibbles where the author fell into the stereotypes of his day and the time period he wrote about (George's looks, Ross's feelings towards Demelza's innocent actions, attitudes towards Keren).
If Ross represents the darkness of raw emotion, then Demelza represents the light of a pure heart.
She is starting to come into her own here and become a true partner to Ross.
I also love Verity, Ross's spinster cousin.
Reading this series is enthralling in its presentation of what life was like, and also makes you grateful for the advancements of modern times.Mr. Graham writes very real, very human characters for his books.
Dem has definitely grown on me, and I love her strength of character, her refusal to be bound by people's opinions of her, or her desire to grow as a woman and as one of elevated status through her marriage.
Also this book ends with some seriously sad shizzle (view spoiler)[ Ross's & Dem's little baby girl Julia dies due to the illness Dem contracted from caring for stupid Francis, Elizabeth & Geoffrey Charles.
This one picks right up where Ross Poldark leaves off. All sorts of romantic entanglements, a christening party goes hysterically wrong, a new arrival throws a couple into a tragedy, and be sure to keep the hankies handy. Very well written, full of twists and surprises, and what I really like in historical fiction, characters that you like in spite of themselves. Four stars overall, and very much recommended. For the longer review, please go here:http://www.epinions.com/review/Winsto...
A great follow-up to Ross Poldark and as soon as I turned the last page I was ready to start the next one.I have two gripes that kept me from giving it 5 stars: Firstly, my 21st-century sensibilities were ruffled by the sprinkling of patriarchal commentary found throughout. I get that we're in the 18th century and that the author was in the 1940's but did every single female character have to have drank the kool-aid?    He must do as he chose and she, at whatever disappointment, must accept it.
A great follow-up to Ross Poldark and as soon as I turned the last page I was ready to start the next one.I have two gripes that kept me from giving it 5 stars: Firstly, my 21st-century sensibilities were ruffled by the sprinkling of patriarchal commentary found throughout.
I get that we're in the 18th century and that the author was in the 1940's but did every single female character have to have drank the kool-aid?
and another female character says to her soon-to-be husband, 
And a story becomes instantly unbelievable when main characters have kids and life continues as if nothing had happened.
