https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/899608.A_Fish_Out_of_Water
Because this is the first book that my daughter, Shrija, read aloud to me.
As parents, we are used to reading to our kids but when the favour is returned, believe me it is an experience far sweeter than any other in this world!The story is about a little boy who buys a fish as a pet and is warned not to overfeed it.
What happens next to the boy and the fish is told in such a beautiful manner, with such wonderful illustrations that it made for a perfect read with my daughter.
:) :) All five stars go to Shrija for making my day a perfect one :) :)
When your parents ask you to not feed the fish much, for once, you should listen to their advice! Read it to see what happens when you don't follow the rules!
Kids are always warned when they go to buy a fish that they must not feed the fish more than it is required. Most kids don't follow this. They get in the sentiment trap of fish and feed them more.This story is a perfect lesson that we should never feed the fish more.But if an friendly fish like this, comes to you for food, how can you refuse?
I find it hard to read this book without thinking about Helen Palmer Geisel's suicide, which came after Dr. Seuss' adultery with the woman who would become his second wife.
Palmer (I'll stick with her chosen nom de plume from now on) took an old story of Seuss's -- a story he had abandoned -- and turned it into A Fish Out of Water.
Just the thought of it depresses me, but it is not bad.
I wonder if it is Seuss' second wife.
Feeding a fish too much causes him to grow to an obscene size within hours?
I'm sure that is probably what made my parents laugh uncontrollably as they read this to me.So why do I adore this book?
He had some of the greatest voices when reading this book, and I have so many fond memories of me and my sis sitting on either side of him as he would wail, "WHY DID I FEED MY FISH TOO MUCH?"At the very least, in a humorous way, it tries to teach children to be responsible and listen the first time, particularly when caring for pets.
Just as I remembered.
For the last few years of Helen’s life, Dr Seuss was having an affair with the woman who would later become his second wife.
In 1927, Helen married Theodore Geisel, known to friends as Ted, and later known to the world as Dr Seuss.
And Helen Palmer’s name also lives on as an author herself.But even there she remains in her husband’s giant shadow, for A Fish Out of Water in fact originated as a short story by Dr Seuss, titled Gustav the Goldfish.
All I can say with certainty is that I loved A Fish Out of Water and that Helen Palmer, despite her tragic end, was no failure.http://dadreads.blogspot.co.uk/2016/0...
I remember reading this many years ago when I was young.
As we recent got some goldfish, and they always looked SO hungry (resulting in some overfeeding by the kids) this book popped into my mind and I looked it up and borrowed it from the library.Bring a "I Can Read" book with the Dr. Suess logo, I was expecting it to be a little more rhymey than it was.
But a cute, quick read, with darling illustrations....
with a reminder to the kids that the story IS make believe, that a fish really wouldn't grow, the water would just get so dirty they might die.
In this humorous book, a little boy buys a fish from a pet store. The boy overfeeds his fish. The fish grows and grows and grows.
Fun and highly original story, it emphasizes in a funny way the importance of following directions.
It’s about a little boy who buys a fish called Otto and the man at the pet store, Mr Carp, warns him not to feed Otto more than a little bit.
The boy ends up feeding Otto more than he was told and Otto grows and grows till he finally has to be moved to a pool, and Mr Carp comes over to make Otto small again, we just don’t know how he did it.
Every child should be able to think of a time where they made a mistake like the boy in the story which makes it relatable.
A Fish Out of Water, by Helen Palmer, is about a young boy who gets a first pet which is a fish.
Mr. Carp, the fish salesman, told the boy only to feed his fish a pinch of food or something will happen.
But then one day the little boy does feed the fish too much, and something does happen!
While this book doesn't necessarily give exact pointers of how to care for a fish, it does show children what can happen if they don't follow directions, because taking care of another living thing is a big deal.
I would rate this 10 stars if i could!!! This was my mum's favorite book when she was little. And when I was little I thought this was a real story so I was always careful when I was feeding my fish!;-P
Dr. Seuss's first wife, Helen Palmer, wrote this story about a little boy who feeds his fish more than the shop keeper told him to feed him. The fish grows and grows. The boy has to call for help to stop the growth.
Mr. Carp *told* the narrator not to feed his new fish, Otto, too much, but our narrator did not listen. Otto grew bigger and bigger and had to transfer to bigger bowls, pots and pans, a bathtub, and a swimming pool! [spoiler] It was lucky that Mr. Carp had seen this kind of problem before and was able to restore Otto by the end.
Thank goodness for Mr. Carp!
This book is read every single night in my house. So I'm counting it.
Sometimes the professional is right4 August 2013 This story is about a boy who buys himself a fish and then proceeds to ignore the advise of the pet shop store owner (ironically, or not so ironically, named Mr Carp), succumbs to the guilt trip that the fish lays upon him, and feeds the fish the whole box of fish food. Well, he should have listened to the professional advice because the fish then begins to grow at a rapid rate and nobody knows what to do about it, until Mr Carp comes along and do
This is a silly book, but it is probably about how we should listen to professionals because, well, they are professionals.
However, that is all irrelevant because this is a kid's book and is designed to have an amusing story that will appeal to the children and also teach them a lesson (and that is listen to professionals because they don't tell you things just because they are a professional – well, not always, but that is a whole separate topic for another time).
The police called the firemen, the fire men took Otto to the pool but people in pool don't like him in the pool so the little boy called Mr. Carp the fish seller and narrated what happened to Otto.
the little boy now learnt his lesson not to overfeed his fish.Learning Experience: I will read this book to the children and teach them how to follow the rules or instruction given to themFeeding: I will also discuss about overfeeding self during breakfast, lunch and dinner.
1. Controlled Vocabulary2. A little boy learns a hard lesson when he doesn’t listen to the pet shop owner and feeds his fish too much! Who knows what can happen if you don’t follow directions!3. Critique:a. The strength of this book is the simple presentation and limited word use to get the story across.b. By using charming pictures and a limited vocabulary, the book becomes a great one for early readers who are still getting used to recognizing and reading words. This way of writing is almost l
The strength of this book is the simple presentation and limited word use to get the story across.b. By using charming pictures and a limited vocabulary, the book becomes a great one for early readers who are still getting used to recognizing and reading words.
I have no doubt that any child would be completely engrossed in the cute story and be reading it on their own before long.c. The light rhyme scheme of the book keep the text flowing, but still simple by rhyming words like “lot, spot, and not.” The reader will quickly recall the story because it is so much fun, but in the process he or she will begin to recognize basic vocabulary.4.
When the young boy bought the fish, the pet store owner had warned the boy not to overfeed the fish at all.
The town was furious so the pet store owner was asked to save the day.This book is a good example of learning from your mistakes and listening to instructions.
The boy was told that he must never over feed Otto but he decided to not listen to his given instructions which caused much stress and annoyance around the town.
You could use this book to teach a child about owning a first pet or a fish specifically.
This book starts off with a boy going to get a fish from Mr. Carp.
Mr. Carp explained to the boy what to do and how much food the little fish needed.
Well the little boys doesn't listen and his fish grows big.
He grows so big that the boy had to find him a new home.
The fish had to be taken to a pool and there Mr. Carp fixed the fish and told the boy how he didn't follow the rules and his fish got so big.
From there the boy didn't disobey.
A charming little story of a boy who did not follow his teacher's directions and ends up in a big mess.
The little boy gets a fish and is told to only feed him one pinch.
The boy loves his fish and wants him to have al the food he wants, so he feeds him the whole jar of food!
The fish grows and grows.
Firefighters, police officers, all sorts of people come to help him.
Mr. Carp ends up coming back to save the day.
This is a nice lesson on following directions and listening to adults.
This is one of my 2 year old son's favorites. I remember loving it as a child as well. This story goes from simply "not following directions properly" to totally out of control fish growth. The unnamed hero of our story bravely tries to save his ever-growing fish that he fed too much by transferring him from one container to another until he ends up in a swimming pool. Finally he calls the fish store owner for help.
Never ceases to amaze me how captivating this book is, even for 3 year-olds! It just builds so beautifully and boggles the mind. What did Mr Carp do? Love, love, love the illustrations and there is such voice in the smoothly crafted text. Watch out though for the desire to overfeed the library fish!
This is a great story for children about the consequences of not following adults' directions and appropriately asking for help when facing such consequences. The way the main character loves and cares about his pet fish despite a harmful decision sets a good example for children and parents alike. The prose is simple and articulate with charming rhyming.
I loved loved loved this book when I was a wee child. A boy feeds his pet goldfish too much and it grows to an unmanageably large size. Recently donated and added to our collection at Kailua Public Library!
I love this book! I remember it being read to me as a child so I purchased it to read for my son. I love the moral of the story....that noone benefits when you don't listen to directions! It's a cute little story about a fish that gets overfed! Extremely entertaining! Highly recommend!
This book doesn't rhyme, which most children's books do...I was a little disappointed.Love the illustrations (guy who wrote/illustrated Go Dog Go).Overall the book just doesn't make a lot of sense. The LO is obsessed with fish so it works.
Amé las ilustraciones y tipografía de este libro porque me recordó mis libros favoritos de casa de mis abuelos (libros infantiles de los 60). Es un libro que, de haber conocido de niña, habría sido mi favorito y habría releído mil veces.
