https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/325636.The_Summer_of_the_Swans
Now while I do have to admit that with regard to personal nostalgia, I still somewhat prefer the German translation that I read as a nine/ten year old, that I do in fact enjoy Als die Schwäne kamen a tiny and trifling bit more than the original, I can and will most certainly very highly and warmly recommend Summer of the Swans (but with the caveat that since Summer of the Swans was penned in 1970 and thus more than forty years ago, especially some of the words used to describe little Charlie, his challenges and limitations might not really be what one would call entirely politically correct by today's standards, albeit that Betsy Byars definitely and yes very fortunately and happily always points out that the word "retarded" is pejorative and bigoted and should not in ANY manner be used to depict and describe Sara's little brother, who is also first and foremost portrayed as a little boy, albeit he is a youngster with challenges and someone who can thus also at times be challenging to and for his nearest and dearest).
I would have prefered it better if the story had focused more on the innocent Charlie, who was forever stuck in the mind-set of a three year old, instead of his self-absorbed, horribly self-conscious sister Sara, who was in the middle of self-discovery and puberty.
My students liked it, which I guess is the most important thing, but I'm not sure I want to read this one to next year's class.
There wasn't a lot of action, there wasn't a lot of character development, and the bulk of the story was Sara talking about how she wasn't good enough for anyone to like her.
This was such a disappointment after enjoying Betsy Byars' The Winged Colt of Casa Mia.Color me nutty, but if a book is titled The SUMMER of the Swans, perhaps swans should somehow be part of a whole summer instead of just two friggin' days.I guess this was one of the first books to deal with an autistic child (long before the word "autism" was coined).
The child gets lost in the woods at night.
Too bad every other character in the book didn't get lost, too.If you want to read about kids getting lost in the woods, try The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon by Stephen King.
This was a very good read aloud. We didn’t want to wait to find out what happened. Such a sweet book.
It's a nice enough story about teenage angst that touches on some interesting subjects including deceased mothers, absent fathers, mentally handicapped children.
Unfortunately, it only grazes the surface of these issues and reads with about as much intensity of a corporate video about "Mutual Respect." Yes, it is well written, has great imagery, and it won a Newberry award, but I think it is too simple a story to take seriously.
There is much more to swans than that, just as there is much more to a teenage protagonist than awkward feelings and frustrations with shoes.
There are many authors who treat children with respect but Byars is not one.
I re-read this book that I loved so much as a child.
Basically, this book is perfect.
The trend in children's books now is that you have to grab the reader by the throat in the opening line and have non-stop action.
But this gentle, contemplative book is of its time (the '70s) and is essentially character-driven.
I remember as a nine-year old thinking this book was really "deep"--and I still think so!
(Charlie had a high fever as a baby, then stopped speaking, and now stims on beautiful objects, has poor fine-motor skills, has trouble with transitions, and needs his routine.) Charlie and Sara are both very lovable characters and their small-town world is so real.
This probably would be better if it was longer; as is, it feels like an overlong short story. Underdeveloped all around, and terribly dated. Compared to this, RULES is a masterpiece.Incidentally, I notice that a disproportionate number of Newberys take place in West Virginia, which is pretty odd.
The Summer of the Swans, Betsy Byars عنوان: تابستان قوها؛ نویسنده: بتسی کرومر بایارس؛ مترجم: پروین علیپور؛ تهران، افق، 1384، در 155 ص، شابک: 9643691624؛ موضوع: داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی قرن 20 م
A standalone fictional novel for young adults revolving around fourteen-year-old Sara, just hitting puberty with all the angst of it.In 1971, The Summer of the Swans won the Newbery Medal.My TakePuberty is hitting Sara hard, and Byars is absolutely brilliant in her depiction of the angst and drama of a young teen with the frustrations about her father and her impatience with her little brother — this rings so true of sibling relationships!
Sara knows it's the same as last summer…it's just…something is different this year.Then Aunt Willy forces Sara to take her brother along to see the swans, for it causes an awakening in Charlie in the night.
I'm surprised it won the Newbery Award since it seemed fairly simple.
The swans play a fairly small role despite the book's title.
There is the death of a parent at the beginning, but it is an event that happened in the past to set the stage for the book.
Later the phrase "mentally handicapped" is used instead, which would serve as an acceptable description for 1970 when the book was written.
Even though it is simple and not an in-depth book, it is wonderful to be able to read a children's book that is clean, descriptive and age appropriate unlike many of the new books for this same age today.
All the Kool Aid references sure did add some authenticity to the setting!

I'm sorry, but this was just a dumb book. The protagonist is completely shallow and unlikable and the story and themes were hardly developed. This is a classic tale of "you don't know what you've got till it's gone" (to quote Joni Mitchell), but it's so straightforward and simple that I really don't see what distinguishes this story. Also, a minor peeve: I would expect a story called The Summer of the Swans to take place over more than two days' time.
The ending was disappointing, & the dialogue seemed very odd. I didn't even like the main character most of the time. I'm not really sure why it was a Newbery winner, unless it was the fact that it dealt with the subject of mental disabilities.
I really did like this book, but it felt entirely to short. I feel like the ideas were there, but the surface of the various topics (death, absentee parents, coping with mentally challenged persons) were barely realized. It definitely could have been longer, but I still did enjoy it!
Overall I enjoyed the story, I just would have wished for a deeper character development.
2.5This was more of a reading assignment than a novel. I thought the relationship between Sara and her handicapped brother was sweet, but nothing else about this story was earth shattering. Really just a bit boring. I wonder how influenced I am as a reader by the cover? Look at it! Blah. I blame the cover. But I can't say that because that would make me THAT person. So, no. Not the cover. But, look at it!
A sweet story about a girl and her special needs brother. A quiet voice and an honest narrative...a nice story. Audio version is well-done.
Read this one because it was a Newbery winner. It only grazed the surface of the things I found most interesting about the book, which I found frustrating. It read almost like an extended short story rather than a novel.
This review also appears on my blog, Read-at-Home Mom.Fourteen-year-old Sara Godfrey lives with her Aunt Willie, older sister, Wanda, and younger brother, Charlie, who has some disabilities resulting from an early childhood illness and does not speak.
Sara's superficial concerns take a backseat, however, when Charlie wanders off, possibly to see the swans that have recently appeared on the lake, and becomes lost.I foolishly avoided this book for years because I had it mixed up in my mind with Lois Lowry's A Summer to Die and assumed it was a story about a child dying of a rare disease.
Charlie and Sara one day decide that they were going to look at the swans at the lake before they were to move to a different lake.
Well after Sara had fallen asleep Charlie heard a noise so he looked out his window and found that there was a swan in the bush so he decides to go out side and chase this swan well he chases this swan into the forest and it is now foggy and really dark so he has no idea how to get out of there so he just keeps on walking.
This book is about a sister and a brother and there having fun during the summer but I think she sho
The summer of the swans is a girl that is on a summer vacation.she never had the perfect summer and shes had 14 summers thats gone bad for her.This summer its about to be different for her.theres a girl named Sara with a brother named Charlie and a pet named Boysie.Sara did not want to go on the vacation the summer.Her aunt are coming with her.her aunt names are aunt willie they went to a place in a house.when they get there she went in and she helped to bring the rest of the stuff.one mornig Sara woke up when she went into to Charlie's room she didn't see hem in the bed.She went down stairs, but he was not there either.She woke up her mom to tell her where's Charlie.Her mom told her he was in the room, but she said she was not in there.
joe came back to give Charlie back his watch.
That is until Charlie goes missing and Sara is forced to rely on the help of a boy she thought was her enemy to find her brother.
This story encompasses aspects of self-discovery and growing up, family relationships and mental, personal & emotional challenges.
Because this story is so personal, I would encourage my students to write a journal entry after each chapter.
While journal writing is very open, I would have the students begin each entry with their thoughts and feelings about the chapter and continue with their own personal experiences that relate to Sara’s.
This book packed a lot into a few short pages and I can see why it won the Newbery Medal.
Excellent story about 14-year-old Sara, her older sister Wanda, and their mentally handicapped younger brother Charlie who all live with their aunt in West Virginia.
Sara is struggling with the typical teenage problems that seem so important when you're 14, but also with the loss of her mother six years before, her distant father who works in another state, being raised by her single aunt, and having a mentally handicapped brother whom she both loves and is exasperated with.
I love reading a book that only says exactly what it needs to.
I love the portrayal of Charlie, his innocence and wonder shines through the eyes of the narrator in a way that if he were to be given dialogue could not compare.
I love the loyalty shown in a confident sister, Sara, and her fierce protection over her mentally disabled brother.
I love the sum up of her inability to cry even though it is something worth crying about.
I came close to tears at the helplessness of this shining spirit in Charlie and the connection between him and his family.
A bit angst-y for my tastes, but, at the same time, I remember days I felt just like the main character.
It's got a bit of problematic content, a girl calls a little boy a retard.
But, that is portrayed as negative.
The older sister is dating, but, it doesn't go into detail.
The main character has some body image issues and self-loathing/attention seeking.
Overall, it's not much fun, but, once it gets going the pacing is quick enough where you are at the end of the book before you know it.
There is some personal growth and the main character gets more likable.
Life is so confusing at fourteen.
You're growing up but your body is a mess.
Your emotions take you on a roller coaster ride.None of that matters when your little brother disappears on night.
But the swans are so beautiful on the lake he must go to see them again.Where is her brother?
How do you find a boy who will be terrified when searchers start combing the woods?This is a good coming of age book.
Each character must face past problems, present dilemmas yet somehow come together to save a lost little boy.
This book is filled with teenage girl drama that may annoy some, but others will be able to identify with.Sara's mother died. Aunt Willie is raising Sara, her sister, and brother. Charlie, the younger brother, is mentally challenged and is often teased. The girls have to care for Charlie who is often not compliant, but is difficult to deal with.Predictable, but could be good to listen to and discuss the audiobook on a family vacation.
Not much to this book. A short story with slightly annoying characters (again, not the best audio book...maybe I'm too picky about who reads to me). In 1970, a story centered around a "mentally handicapped" boy was extraordinary, I'm sure. In 2017, I recommend Rules instead.
