https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81153.Briar_Rose
It's been two years since I read it, so I don't exactly remember how graphic it was, but if I had to make an educated guess it wasn't half as graphic as your average heterosexual romance novel.Let me be clear here: I didn't like this book.
The Nazi mass murder of millions of people because of their ethnicity, religion, disability, political and, yes, sexual orientation?
A lot harder than the mass murder of millions of people because of their ethnicity, religion, disability, political and sexual orientation!
Becca has grown up hearing her grandmother (called "Gemma" because one of her granddaughters couldn't pronounce "grandma") tell the story of Sleeping Beauty to her and her sisters.
Gemma's story is different from the widely-known version, however - in this one, Briar Rose has red hair (like Gemma) and lives in a castle where everyone falls asleep after an evil fairy sends a mist over everyone.
Here's my favorite: Gemma is telling Becca about the evil fairy that cursed Briar Rose and describes her as, "the one in black with big black boots and silver eagles on her hat.
This novel retells a segment of the holocaust through the lens of a family story masquerading as a fairy tale.
I had a little trouble determine the intended audience for this book.
The viewpoint character is a young woman, a recent college graduate still living at home.
I think the biggest disappointment is that the viewpoint character is supposed to be on a search to understand her Gemma's story.
At the end of the book, the reader has been told a series of facts, but does not really understand "Gemma the woman" any better than at the beginning.
Mmm, I'm very sorry to say that this is by far the most implausible retelling of a classic fairy tale that I've read recently, and not because of historical inaccuracies or bad writing.Simply put: it's because Yolen tries too hard to draw a parallel between the Charles Perrault tale of Briar Rose, a.k.a. The Sleeping Beauty in the Wood, and the tribulations of Gemma/Gitl Mandelstein, a now elderly survivor of the Holocaust who obsessive-compulsively tells and retells the fairy tale to her three granddaughters, with the twist that she is in truth telling her own story of survival from the Chelmno concentration camp.
So I was excited to find this retelling of Sleeping Beauty that is, of all things, also a Holocaust story.
Becca is the 3rd daughter (third--very important in fairy tales...)of a Jewish family, whose grandmother, known to them as Gemma, has slipped into senility and finally dies.
On her deathbed, Gemma makes Becca promise to track down her inheritance--the truth--of the story of her life.
I was fascinated by Jane Yolen's ability to envision Briar Rose in a Holocaust setting, and I feel haunted by the story she wove.
It’s different from what I was expecting, I guess because her The Devil’s Arithmetic had a young teen protagonist and had more of a speculative fiction aspect, and I was afraid this would be pure fairy tale.
However, this story is not fantasy but modern day & historical fiction Holocaust fiction, with fictional aspects added to Holocaust events – with a made up small group of people and one person in particular.
Yes, the Sleeping Beauty fairy tale has its place here, and I saw a bit of Cinderella too.It’s gorgeously told, sometimes horrifying and heartbreaking, sometimes even fun at times.
The story was instantly addicting, it was a lightning fast read and when I noticed the original copyright was 1992, I wished this book could have appeared in the curriculum of my 8th grade English class during the month we studied the Holocaust (in 1992).
On her death bed, Gemma asked Becca to discover the truth.The story that follows is impossible to put down and leads Becca on a 3-week trip to Poland where she discovers the truth about princes and princesses and castles and Holocaust victims and survivors--Jews and non-Jews alike.
If my child is a reader and ever finds him or herself studying the Holocaust during school, I could see myself suggesting this book for further reading.
Real line, really included in this book, really not removed by her editor:"Her eyebrows worked independently of one another, which gave her the look of a slightly demented dove." (Followed by: "Becca decided she liked that.")So many questions raised here .
how do eyebrows work independently?
Why, exactly, would that make anyone look like a dove?
And good heavens, why a "slightly demented dove?" If I ever meet Jane Yolen, these will be the questions I ask.
You can always depend on Jane Yolen for excellent writing, but this is my absolute favorite of hers. She manages to combine the Holocaust, the Sleeping Beauty tale, and a young woman's memories of her grandmother into a really wonderful book. Very highly recommended.
.
Wonderful book for young readers...grades 6-8. A fun story about a young girl who learns about her grandmother's true identity through the content of a box her grandmother leaves her. If you enjoyed  ,  ,   and   you will enjoy it. I was going to add   to the list and as fantastic and education the 'Night' is, its not really for young Adult. Briar Rose is perfect for the YA format.Set in the present day with flashbacks to the Holocaust, it is an unforgettable story. Yolen skillfully weaves Gemma
Yolen skillfully weaves Gemma's recounting of the Briar Rose story with what really happened and it is heartbreaking and moving.
The novel is filled with great characters - Becca, who agrees to find out Gemma's story and pledges to do so no matter what; Stan, her editor who encourages her to do so; Magda, the irrepressible Polish girl who helps Becca; Josef Potoki, who fills in many of the blanks in Gemma's life (his story is one of the most moving parts of the book); and of course Gemma herself as her story unfolds.
Gemma and Josef's stories are moving in many ways - a reminder of how much people lost during the Holocaust.
Review to come (eventually)
If you picked up this book thinking it was a fantasy/modern fairytale, you will be disappointed.
A few reviewers felt the same way I did about the beginning of the book but said that the culmination was worth hanging in for.I think the part of the story related by "The Prince" is worth reading but overall, I was really disappointed.
I give it three stars and say it is worth reading because it tells of events that people need to know about and think about.I would also add that this book is on the juvenile shelf in my library and I, personally would not want my under 14 kids to read it without me, if at all.
it deals with a young woman searching for the truth about her grandmother's life.
The grandmother had always been loving, but a little bit eccentric, and obsessed with the story of Sleeping Beauty, or Briar Rose.
Her granddaughter, Becca, makes her a deathbed promise to 'find the castle,' which she interprets as a request to find out the truth of how the metaphor of Sleeping Beauty applied to her grandmother's life.
1.5 stars Got about 3/4 of the way through and then had to put it down. Jane Yolen definitely didn't have to put all the gay/lesbian stuff in the book. It was just a bit too bothersome for me to finish :( And there could have been less swearing.
Instead we are left with a poorly written, confused, and mediocre young adult novel.Many of the characters that populate this book are completely unconvincing.
She was a nuisance to read with her broken English, and her benign comments seemed to only reinforce the stereotype of the “Stupid Polack.” Stan was a useless plot device (Beccah’s love interest) and should have been further developed or thrown out entirely, as the romance seemed to have no real purpose at all.There also seems to be an issue in this book with age.
The start was good, the ending wasn't too bad but the middle was seriously weak - I was not impressed (and I can't even be bothered to go into all the details).Just a couple of things...1) Once Becca got to Poland (and oh, wasn't that all so very easy all of a sudden?), she was just sooo annoying, constantly correcting Magda's English.
Sachenhausen is not the name of the labour camp north of Berlin near Oranienburg (not Oranienberg, big difference), it's Sachsenhausen.
That really seriously irked me; perhaps because I've been to Sachsenhausen at least a couple of times.
And even though to tell a story is to tell some kind of untruth, one often suspects that what seems to be untruth is really a hidden truth.Briar Rose is a new take on the classic fairy tale, Sleeping Beauty.
Rebecca begins a search into her grandmother's past to discover that some fairy tales have a basis in reality.I was not overly fond of the writing in this one, but about halfway through the author found her stride and I found myself thoroughly interested in the tale of Briar Rose.
"Gemma" has told the tale of Briar Rose to her three granddaughters for as long as they can remember, but on her death bed, in a moment of lucidity, Gemma emphatically informs Becca that she actually is Briar Rose.
A box full of Gemma's secret possessions leads Becca to unravel the mystery of her grandmother's past in a harrowing holocaust story.
Becca's actual journey, which takes her all the way to Poland, has many interesting and endearing moments, but the magic of this book is how Yolen weaves Gemma’s apparent fairy tale into the reality, teasing out the story of Briar Rose bit by bit, until it reaches its bittersweet conclusion.
Although it's loosely based on Sleeping Beauty it is not itself fairy-tale-like, and is set in modern times. Part of the action takes place in Nazi Germany and the plight of the Jews (the significance of the barbed wire on the cover photo). It's a good story, and although it's not all happy events I did like it very much. It's in my "to re-read" pile.
A haunting, beautiful read. Though it's framed in the Sleeping Beauty tale, that's not really what the story is about in the end. But a lovely, exquisitely written book. Heartbreaking and yet hopeful. Recommend!
Originally reviewed on The Book SmugglersFor as long as she can remember, Becca has been enamored, frightened, and captivated by her Grandmother Gemma's favorite story - that of Briar Rose, and the awful sleeping curse placed on her and all her people by the cruel fairy with black boots and emblazoned with silver eagles.
With a box of trinkets and a fairy tale as her only clues to her grandmother's past, Becca starts her investigation into Gemma's life.
What she finds leads her on the path to a small town in 1940s Poland, to a place where Gemma's fairy tale intertwines with threads of memory and truth.
DNF at page 115I wanted to love this. I really did. The cover is gorgeous and I really enjoy fairytale retellings. But this just did not work for me at all. The writing was dull and dry, Becca was so uninteresting, and the story is just not what I expected at all. So I'm putting this one down. Maybe I'll come back to it? But probably not.
However, if you're looking for a mix of historical fiction and fairy tale, or an exploration into how fairy tales and stories (or fiction in general) might be used by someone to cope with tragedy, read this book!4.5 stars(view spoiler)[In response to reviews mentioning the "graphic" homosexuality in Briar Rose and its being "inappropriate" for young readers:Seriously?!!
(Or throughout history?) I did not remember reading anything "graphic" in Briar Rose, so I went back and re-read Josef's story.First, though, reviewers commented on Becca having a lesbian friend.
I'm usually pretty careful about that, because I don't want to waste my time on a worthless book.
However, the main thing that I had no idea about when I picked up this book was the homosexual content.
The protagonist is friends with an openly lesbian former professor and, later on, there are graphic depictions of the completely promiscuous affairs of another homosexual character.
Also, the fact that random people popped up making fairy tale references felt a bit forced.
For example, the stranger on the plane telling Becca that, because she hadn't traveled much, she was like Sleeping Beauty.
Overall, the book was a waste of time.
I am happy to have I read it, but I have mixed feelings.
On one hand I applaud Yolen for addressing a horrendous subject matter and for using the fairytale Briar Rose/Sleeping Beauty to tell a story about the Holocaust.
Becca the main character is raised on a special version of the Briar Rose/Sleeping Beauty tale that her mysterious grandmother tells her.
Furthermore Becca arrives in Poland not speaking a word of Polish and the first thing she does when she arrives is correct her guides English!
If it were not for these things I would have rated this novel higher.
The Prince then kissed her and woke her from deep sleep.On her deathbed Becca's Polish immigrant grandmother pleaded with her to "find the castle."Discovering fragments of her grandmother's history in a box left behind, Becca undertakes an incredible journey to Poland where she learns of the brutality inflicted on the innocent at an extermination camp that was housed in a schloss (castle.)Weaving the tale of Briar Rose and the Holocaust, Yolen vividly depicts the horror at Chelmno, Poland where from 1942-1945, 320,000 people were gassed and buried in mass graves.Fairytales do not always have happy endings.
Briar Rose is a re-imagining of the fairy tale Sleeping Beauty.
I had hoped for either a new and adult take on a fairy tale, or a new look at an old story that I could share with my 10 and 12 year old daughters.
Here's what it did give me: a way to see how fairy tales tell us more about real life than we might imagine.Briar Rose tells the story of Becca, a 23 year old journalist whose grandmother, Gemma, always claimed to be Sleeping Beauty from the story.
This is a very moving tale about a woman trying to find her Grandmother's history.
Becca's Grandmother, known as Gemma to her family, loves to share the tale of Briar Rose (Sleeping Beauty) and insists she is, in fact, Briar Rose herself.
She has not shared any information about her life before coming to America in the 40’s and her family believes she does not know.
On Gemma’s deathbed she asks Becca to promise to find the castle from her story.
It is simply a fairy tale retelling with no fantasy elements at all.
The book begins with the impending death of the grandmother Gemma.
After researching the clues left, Becca heads to Poland and is led to the former concentration camp of Chelmno.
She meets an elderly man Josef who knew her grandmother and he shares the story of how Gemma survived the death gassings, married and became pregnant, and the circumstances that led her to immigrate to America.
The story explains much, but not everything, of why her grandmother would tell a unique tale of Sleeping Beauty that fit the narrative of some of the horrors that she endured.
