https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1044141.The_8th_Habit
قرأت هذا الكتاب منذ خمس سنوات بمناسبة درس الانجليزية في الجامعة، حيث طلبت منا الأستاذة قراءة كتابين بالانجليزية في أي مجال نختاره ثم تقديم عرض موثق عن الموضوع.
لن أقول أن هذا الكتاب غير حياتي، لأن قراءة الدروس وحدها لا تكفي.
أعتقد أن علي قراءته مرات أخرى و على مهل لاستفادة حقيقية، مثلما فعلت مع كتاب العادات السبع الذي مازالت تفاصيله ترافقني و تخطر ببالي العادات في بعض مواقف الحياة اليومية.
Why I Read this Book: There are few things more important to success than having a clear vision of what you want to accomplish.
This book was fantastically written and is an absolute must read for people serious about continued personal (and professional) development and enrichment.
I have found every one of the books on this site to be very beneficial.The 8th Habit is to find your voice and inspire others to find theirs.
It is why so few people read books like the 8th Habit and others listed on this site.
انت أوفر حظاً منهم لأنه بين يديك اخبار من سبقوك, ومن فقه أخبار من سبقه أضاف حياةً إلى حياته!كوفي لا يخترع علماً جديداً, هو يخبرنا بأمورٍ نعلمها, لكنها لم تقدم الينا مرتبةً جاهزة من قبل.
لذلك كوفي وجد وهجه في تعليم الآخرين كيف يجدون وهجهم!
إذن يتبقى لنا ان نقرأ ونفكر ملياً فيمن نحن وماذا نرغب ان نكون, نطرح الاسئلة نفسها التي طرحها أبطال قصص كوفي, ونرسم بناءً عليها المستقبل الذي نرغب فيه لنا وللآخرين من حولنا ♥
يتحدث فيه عن العادة الثامنة التى يحتاج اليها لاكمال عادات النجاح السبع وهى كن مبادرا - ابدأ والغاية 

و ماشجعني على الأخذ باقتراحهم هو انهم حددوا لي جزئية معينة قالوا انها شاملة لأهم افكار الكتاب..فأخذت بمشورتهم ..سعيدة لأني فعلت..الكتاب غيّر الكثير وكان القشة التي قسمت ظهر البعير..كان بمثابة إطلاق لصوتي الداخلي..و هو كذلك..رسالة الكتاب كلها ترتكز على هذا الأساس..هناك صوت بداخلك عليك التوقف عن تجاهله وتناسيه..الجدير بالذكر اني بعد قراءتي للجزئية المقترحة ..تحمست لقراءته كاملاً..وعدت لصفحاته الأولى لكن ولسبب ما مللت !!ربما يعود ذلك لاني فهمت ما وراء كل تلك المقدمات الطويلة ..و القصص الكثيرة التي بدأ بها ستيفن كوفي رائعته ..لم انهي الكتاب لا لسوء فيه ..إنما لاني تعرفت على كتاب "التغيير من الداخل ،تأملات في عادات النجاح السبع" والذي عرفت انه يلخص كتاب ستيفن بطريقة تتناسب و بيئتنا الشرقية..لذا قررت بعد طول تفكير ان اتوقف عن قراءة هذا الكتاب و البدء في كتاب الدكتور ايمن ..
فمازال هناك الكثير من الكتب التي اتمنى قراءتها..والعمر قصير !!
It’s the sequel to his ‘Seven Habits‘ book, the eighth habit being ‘Find your voice, and then help others find theirs’.
Had he taken into account the reality of the business world today, where the driving force is not finding your voice but to ensure your survival?
When the squeeze of margins everywhere has made the survival so extremely difficult, where do you find the luxury to discover and enrich your voice?That said, he has the right to his opinions.
In any case, it’s a good sequel to his first book
I have read the "7 Habits" in 2006 and was taken aback by the insights of the book.
Three/four years back, I was gifted "The 3rd Alternative" and the book was above my expectations.
The diverse examples from different fields were really informative in themselves and not just illustrating the concepts in the book.Somehow, I decided to read the "8th Habit" as I had it as an audiobook and had some long trips and wanted something "not thick".
From my experience with Covey, I was expecting another great book full of thought-provoking insights (even though the book was published before the 3rd Alternative).
But, like any ecosystem, moral authority develops and expands outward, yet all parts are interrelated and interdependent.Birth-Gifts, Our Cultural Overlay and WisdomTo review, in an earlier chapter, Covey identifies birth-gifts: the power to choose, natural laws and principles and the four native intelligences (physical, mental, emotional and spiritual).
Wisdom comes in finding a Third Alternative that transcends these poisonous cultural norms and puts these birth-gifts to use in achieving greatness.At the personal level, most people want quality relationships and personal peace.
"Our deepest fear is not that we are inadequate.
Our deepest fear is that we are powerful beyond measure.
It is our light, not our darkness, that most frightens us.
You are a child of God. Your playing small doesn't serve the world.
There is nothing enlightened about shrinking so that other people won't feel insecure around you.
We are all meant to shine, as children do.
We were born to make manifest the glory of God that is within us.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
Here's a synopsis: The new Information/Knowledge Worker Age, exemplified by the Internet, calls for an eighth habit to achieve personal and organizational excellence: "Find your voice and inspire others to find theirs." Covey sees leadership "as a choice to deal with people in a way that will communicate to them their worth and potential so clearly they will come to see it in themselves." His holistic approach starts with developing one's own voice, one's "unique personal significance." The bulk of the book details how, after finding your own voice, you can inspire others and create a workplace where people feel engaged.
Another masterpiece by Stephen Kovy. Genius book. Foliage in everything agrees with the autumn. This book should be read to everyone, in my opinion-------------------Ще один шедевр від Стівена Кові. Геніальна книжка. Повністью у всьому згоден з автром. Цю книжку варто прочитати кожному, на мою думку
I love the positive and all-inclusive approach to the topic.It's important to know your talents and gifts and then express them with vision, discipline, passion and conscience.
Then in inspiring others you need to model and help others find the path by building trust, blending voices and finding win-win alternatives that create a shared vision.
There may be too many ways to say the same things in this book, but it is very thorough and has great principles and lessons to apply in many situations.
And as we let our own light shine, we unconsciously give other people permission to do the same.
However, from here on out, the book really started to dry up for me, and I don't know that I would recommend it to anyone.
Well, I might recommend the first half, which would be pretty much like reading the whole book.
Covey's writing reads to me more like a journal entry or the transcript from a counseling session than a list of habits, which never fails to perplex me given the titles "7 habits" and "the 8th habit." I take to objection to this principles in his books, guess I've just become familiar to the point of boredom.
كتاب صوتي آخر ينضم لقائمة كتب العام، وهو متمم ومكمل لكتاب ستيفن كوفي "العادات السبع".هنا يعرف كوفي ا
This is the best book on leadership I have read to date. Some books focus on a single narrow aspect of leadership, this book takes a very holistic approach to the topic. The book also does a decent job of covering the predecessor book The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, so this is a bonus if you have not read that book.The constant comparison and analysis of the leadership styles used in the Industrial Age vs. those required in the Knowledge Worker Age was excellent.
أقل من عادي. معظم الفصول والفقرات الجيدة كانت مُقتبسة من كتاب العادات السبع. عنوان الكتاب نفسه هو استثمار في نجاح كتاب العادات السبع.بدايته حتى منتصفه يستحق ثلاث نجوم ونصف ولكن مع إنهاء الكتاب شعرتُ أن نجمتين للإجمال كانت كافية.
The paradox is that I do enjoy reading and discussing Business/Self-Help books, but I feel like by definition, their teachings are obvious.David Covey is on the Mt Rushmore of Business/Self-Help authors.
Even if you have not read his 7 Habits of highly Effective People, I can still pretty much guarantee you have been exposed to his teachings.This book is a bit of a misnomer, in to me, it clearly is a gimmick to sell more books by connecting it to this business masterpiece.
The problem with many of these books is that they fail in giving what feels like real life examples.
Covey (likely because of his fame) has plenty of examples of things he's done.
Reading this book is like putting everything that I have learned about being a human in to proper perspective.
For me this is a very sound advice and helped me take a closer look at the imbalance in my own life.Covey delivered his ideas very convincingly through numerous examples like stories of people, quotes from well known authors and public figures, etc.
While others may not like the idea of going to a website while reading the book, I like it very much since it kept me engaged and the films helped illustrate the ideas more effectively.If you haven't notice this book is the sequel to Covey's best seller, The Seven Habits of Highly Effective People.
As I build my own startup, the visions I have for it had seem rather idealistic and on the verge of being “just a dream in an ideal world” but reading this book has given me conviction that it’s not idealistic and it’s not just a dream nor will it only happen in an ideal world.
It tells me it’s the right thing to do and is honestly the only step forward that we as a society is hungry for but unable to achieve as yet.
So that’s a bummer.Ultimately though, I appreciated this book because it’s what I hope to build.
And Dr Covey has given me tools to achieve it.
He teaches principles that if you can implement into your personal and work life, will truly make a difference to you and those you come in contact with.
As you find your voice, which is at the core of everybody, you will be able to accomplish great things and truly make a difference in life both personal and professional.
It was truly and amazing book and I highly recommend that everyone read it!
It even comes with a companion DVD which helps to teach and reinforce the priciples taught in the book.
كيف ستتعامل مع كل كيان ؟ وهل يستطيع الإنسان في هذا العصر التعامل مع هذه الكيانات الأربعة حتى ضمن العمل ؟ كيف تطور الإنسان في التعامل مع هذه الكيانات من عصر الصياد، الزراعي، الصناعي حتى المعرفي ؟ما خصائص عصر المعرفة ؟ كيف يجد الإنسان صوته الداخلي ؟ ما هي المقومات الاربعة التي تجعل من صوت الإنسان أمرا ملموسا ؟كيف نستطيع تطبيق هذه الأفكار على مؤسسات وكيف نحدث تغييرا فيها ؟ كيف نتعامل ...
؟ ما هي النشاطات الأربعة الأساسية التي تجعل من المؤسسات مراكز لخدمة الإنسان ؟ الجميل في الكتاب أن يتحدث مع الناس بطريقة واقعية وعملية.
Like the previous book, 7 habits, this is a book I'd like to have on my own bookshelf at home as there are lots and lots of things to implement into the way I live my life and how I work.
This book is a followup as the original 7 habits were written back in 1989, and while still applicable there are new ways to really apply them.
The main theme of the book is to find your own voice and be your own person.
You must know what you believe and then learn to apply everything together.
Lots of things for me to work on.
Covey's "7 Habits of Highly Effective People" remains a class manual for focusing and improving the quality of one's own life. Here, he adds the 8th habit; in his words, 'Finding your voice and helping others find theirs". In other words, leadership and inspiration. Covey suggests taking an entire year to work through the principles and specific suggestions here. It's so jam packed with great ideas and insights I'd love to spend that year on the book, and work with others in exploring and enacting it.
I really enjoyed 7 Habits of Highly Effective People and picked up "The 8th Habit" as a result. There are a lot of new concepts he introduces, primarily concepts surrounding leadership. At first I felt the book was repetitive, as there were many concepts and illustrative anecdotes which were taken directly from "7 Habits". However, towards the last 25% of the book, I really felt things came together and that is where I learned the most.
This is a great book as a follow-up to the 7 Habits book. In fact, it's good even without that, as it presents a holistic view of people, their needs, and how to acheive greatness. It also addresses how many people really are just existing rather than living life to the max. I want to buy my own copy so I can go through it slowly over a year and put into practice all the suggestions I see I need. Highly recommended!
This was such an excellent book - I think I actually liked it better than "7 Habits." The principles were amazing. It is written as a business book, but it can easily be applied to anybody, anywhere. The more you read out of it, the better it gets. I think everyone should read it, even those who haven't read "7 Habits" first (although that book was great too).
I have learnt from Stephen Covey that these are not just unique to me, but universal human needs.
Finding my voice, as he says, has always been my never-ending mission, wherever I have been: school, work (employment), and now my client organisations.
I find the book supportive of my mission: developing the internal power and moral authority to break out of organisational challenges, and becoming a significant force in surmounting them, for the sake of my clients, colleagues, and the world of work.Changing the world, one leader, one team, and one organisation at a time, for me translates into changing my community & my country, for the best of all.
هو انا بحاول اقرا اي حاجة عشان ارفع من روحي المعنوية - بس حقيقى الكتاب زفت - احنا ليه نقرا الهري ده واحنا عندنا علوم زي علم التزكية مثلا - معتقدش ان الكتب دي ممكن تعمل فيك حاجة غير انها تديك شوية حماس اهبل
I read this book before reading The 7 Habits, so perhaps my review is less credible.
However, I’ve read enough self-improvement books to know that these authors will typically follow the same formula and just juggle the various themes around.
So what is the 8th habit?
Wouldn’t it be funny if the 8th turned out to be one he simply forgot in the previous book?
I think the book is heavy on concepts, but light on practical details.
I think the reviewer’s are being generous in their ratings because it is a Covey book, on it’s own merit, I would have given it a 2.
