https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/384184.Vegan
Here we have the well poured ink on paper that begat my long journey along the rough and seldom climbed path of Veganism.
Since I live a vegan lifestyle only because of animal suffering I never really gave a second thought to the whole health aspects of veganism.
The brief introduction in the first few chapters talking about dr.
The book is called Vegan but actually only talks about a plantbased diet and not about leather, wool, silk, fur and animal testing.
Overall, with its obvious imperfections I would highly recommend this to people who want to learn more about what veganism is and the reasons behind it (health, animals, environment, global food distribution).
For books on animal rights it's better to turn to Gary L.
Excellent introduction to pursuing a vegan path.
Interesting book...I thought some of the benefits attributed to a vegan diet were probably a little overblown, or at least were not put in perspective with other lifestyle choices (like exercise), but much of the info on post-industrial agro-business practices and the chapter on food borne pathogens seemed legit (and very scary).It certainly makes you think twice about the sustainability of modern agricultural practices.
So, not many vegans out there, and I myself no longer qualify, but it was a good read on diet and health and the whole meat/dairy-producing industry. Note: You will probably look like a pretentious-mightier-than-thou-hippy whilst reading this book; I recommend you do it in private or invest in a book cover!
I read this book with the intent to educate myself on how food gets to my plate as well as how the farming industry treats animals in general.I found a lot of the material disturbing and it did lead me to question the ethics of the way my family eats.I'm not sure if everything in this book can be taken as Gospel, but it is a good read for those who are interested in changing their diet for health as well as humane reasons.
Another great book for those curious about the vegan lifestyle or beginning their journey as a vegan. Great information and statistics, easy to read and engaging. Don't expect anything more than the basics, though. But for what it tries to do it definitely does successfully, covering all the bases of the benefits of veganism: animal rights, human health, environment.
Covers all the issues, though might overstate some of the health benefits of veganism. Really great chapter on the environmental impact of cattle ranching, which is something none of the other books I've read have touched upon. Also some terrifying information about the earth's carrying capacity. This would be a good starting point for people exploring issues related to meat eating.
Discusses the ethical, economical, environmental and health reasons for why vegans choose their diets. I suggest you don't read if you don't plan on going vegan, because otherwise it is really tough to digest (no pun intended). Similar to visiting McDonalds right after watching Super Size Me.
This is a must read for anyone considering switching to a plant-based diet. I have been vegan for 10 years and learned a lot from this book!
It's been a while since I read this, but I think it was pretty good.
Wow, What a great book! It really made me think about how we vote with our dollars at the gorcery store and malls. I really enjoyed this book.
it will change the way you think
This is a great insight to the reality of the foods we eat, their affects on us, the environment and what we can do as individuals as well as a society change direction.
A compelling book. Worth a read just to open your eyes.
The personal anecdotes of those who had switched to an all-plant diet were enlightening, especially the first of the man who had given up all medical tests, and was convinced by Dr Ornish to test his diet, and the affects this had on him.
This is a great introduction into veganism, and the healthy long-term affects it can have.I also share the author's discovery that switching to a vegetarian or vegan diet helped to expand his food and cooking possibilities, as opposed to limit them.
As a vegan, I greatly enjoyed this book but, at the same time this book also broke my heart because it goes in depth of what goes on in diary farms, hen houses, etc. It also provides good insight on what switching to an all plant-based diet and living can do for our bodies and for the ecosystem :)
There were minimal parts I liked, and main foods to be considered a vegan lifestyle. The other parts via stories, testimonies, and food chain elements was a bore for me. Therefore, it was just an okay read but was able to scan through the book within 2 hours.
Definitely recommended if you want to learn more about veganism. Great book.
This is the awakening book.
I've definitely learned that I don't need animal products as part of a healthy, well-balanced diet, which is contrary to everything most of us have ever been taught.
I've been eating a mostly-meatless diet ever since I read Eating Animals, and this book is certainly enough to convince me to cut out eggs and dairy, but I don't think I'm ready for that yet.
My biggest gripe with this book is that it's like 10 years old by now, so I don't know how accurate all the statistics are for the meat industry and the health studies.
interesting)2.) The Truth About Food Animals- Most of this information is not new if you are familiar with practices of factory farms.
That being said, MANY people (myself included until recently) did not know these facts.
Told from the point of view of a great organization called Farm Sanctuary.3.) Beyond the Dinner Table- Including a piece on world hunger, scarier than any horror flick I've seen.Highly recommended if you are a vegan or considering a vegan/vegetarian lifestyle, or if you just want to know more about our food, where it comes from, and the impact on our earth.
This is an even-handed and agreeable book that explores the health and ethical motivations behind choosing a plant-based diet.
I was pleased to see the author did not resort to hyperbole, as is sometimes the case with veg*n books.
I was also relived to see Marcus explore certain issues that so many authors shy away from or ignore completely.
My only complaints are that the few photos were black-and-white and rather poorly reproduced, and that the author bolded certain phrases in the text seemingly randomly, which I was a bit thrown by.
This is a book I would suggest to omnivorous skeptics.
The book starts with good intentions. It does a few case studies on people who have improved their health through a vegan diet. Then the book starts on the path of how animals are raised, slaughtered, etc. If you have read Fastfood Nation this is not a big shock to hear about. I really think if the book had stuck to vegan case studies and maybe other topics instead of going down the path of animals being slaughtered, chickens being debeaked, pigs living in awful conditions and the raising of veal it would have been a much better book.
I guess this is comparable to Fast Food Nation only the focus is on veganism instead of capitalism. (Maybe those are one in the same? I don't know.) Though I wholeheartedly agree with the message the book is still pretty dry and very fact-y. It's a good vegan resource and definitely worth reading if you're on the fence about whether or not to live animal-free. (duh, of course you should.) I'm still waiting for the final kick in the ass that will make me give up dairy.
While I didn't go vegan until 2 years after I read it, I think this book was very important in my willingness to go vegan. He hits all the suspects: consuming animals' horrible destruction to the environment and human bodies; and, of course, animal rights. Because the animals ain't here for you to kill or use. For any reason.
Kind of a newer, shorter (and better layed out) Diet for a New America. Presents some amazing facts regarding the suffering, unhealthiness, and pollution caused by a animal-centered diet. Oops, I actually haven't read this, the "revised edition", but I imagine it doesn't differ too much from the original.
Although not a vegan, yet, reading this book has helped me to continue with my committment. It's a sad commentary on humans that so many think they are above the other species that share this planet. If just one person would read this book and make some small changes, you don't have to become Vegan, it would save many lives.
Eye opening and completely re-affirmed my choice about eating vegan. I cried a bit while reading this, being the animal lover that I am, and I think that everyone who eats meat/dairy should read this and get a real perspective on where your food is coming from. You can even download the book and read it for free.
While much shorter and breezier than Diet for a New America, "Vegan" makes many of the same arguments in a fairly compelling way. Not my favorite book on the subject and not one that I really recommend to people, but I'm glad to have read it and glad that it's out there.
