https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183103.The_Black_Jacket_Mystery
This 8th mystery in the Trixie Belden series opens with the BWGs (Bob-Whites of the Glen) planning a carnival fundraiser to help the Mexican village of San Isidro following an earthquake.
As an adult re-reading these I am wondering one thing though......when is little Bobby (Trixie's little brother) going to start talking like a 7 year old and not a toddler?
:) As an adult, I'm still very much enjoying the series, but I do notice I look at a few things (like Bobby's dialogue) with adult eyes.Moving on to book 9!
The Trixie Belden series was written from 1948 - 1986.
This series is ridiculous (better than Nancy Drew, though!) and (much like Nancy Drew) I've read and reread 30+ books at some point during my childhood.
I fell down the rabbit hole again this weekend and I'm up to book 11 now.This series is - surprise!
A tomboy teenager with annoying brothers and a few millionaires' kids as friends solves mysteries in upstate New York!
Dan wears a leather jacket, so he might be part of a gang.
It's so well-meaning and atrocious, it's almost funny?Anyway, moral of the story: don't judge a book by its leather jacket, kids!
Your new best friend might be lurking underneath!
The cover of my version of this book has Dan wearing a cheesy leather cap with a visor, which apparently passed for gang haute couture back in the day.ETA: Okay, what is UP with Mrs. Belden that she can't keep an eye on Bobby?
I just reread this last night, and Trixie spends much of the book's beginning chapters feeling guilty she isn't doing a better job of keeping Bobby out of her mother's hair.
I wonder if Helen Belden has some secret drinking problem and spends a lot of time passed out?
It's pretty solidly a story about not judging a book by its cover, though Dan Mangan works overtime to reinforce Trixie's assumptions.
I guess some of it is that I enjoy the adult characters in this one, like Regan and Mr. Maypenny, and some of it is that Dan is interesting despite being a stereotypical Bad Hat. That's about it.
The book's weakness is tied to its straddling the line between MG sensibilities and YA material, because Dan's friend (whose name I've forgotten) is nasty and should have been portrayed as nastier than he was.
In the midst of planning a winter carnival and skating competition to aid a school in Mexico that has been hit by an earthquake, 13-year-old sleuth Trixie Belden half-overhears conversations and half-reads papers she’s told in no uncertain terms are none of her business.
Trixie, Honey, Trixie’s brother Mart and Brian, along with Diana Lynch, and Honey’s adopted brother, Jim, form the club known as the Bob-Whites of the Glen, who solve mysteries, irritate the police and foil the plans of many a crook.
Granted I lived in New York state quite a few years after the Bob-Whites did, but I’d never heard that word before, so I doubt that it’s regional.
Yeah, Dan Mangan belongs to a gang called…The Cowhands.
They wear cowboy boots and have their gang name painted on the back of their eponymous cowboy boots.
To be fair, The Mysterious Visitor depiction of Skid Row was also pretty embarrassing, so it's not just ghostwriters perpetuating bizarre depictions of the criminal underclass.- All of a sudden Trixie and Honey have always had penpals in Mexico.
Unlike Tad Williams, however, Dan Mangan gets rushed into full-on club membership, and equally quickly shuffled offstage at the beginning of nearly every subsequent book.
This is a case of where I wish I could rate parts. The story on the whole is good but I think the adults are stupid in it. If they had just told the BWG's who Dan was and to see if they could befriend him, none of the stuff that happened would have happened. But of course then there wouldn't be a mystery. It was still the stupid adults faults!
August 2013 ... re-read, a good story, though there are some minor discrepancies in details from the earlier books written by Julie Campbell. Those were not noticeable as a kid ... but I noticed them now. But in general a good read, helping to enforce the lesson that we must not judge people based on what they look like. Some good food for thought.
He is such a lovable character and I always enjoy when he is a part of a mystery, helping the kids, or just someone they stop and visit.In this title, Trixie is at again trying to figure out who Dan is and why he is living with Mr. Maypenny.
After many false leads and wrong guesses, the story comes out and we learn all about Dan Mangan, a kid from the city who got involved with the wrong people then.There is also the added danger of a catamount (mountain lion) that is loose in the Wheeler preserve and it threatens anyone who crosses the forests threshold, including six year old Bobby who hears about the "kitty" and wants to catch it for Trixie.
3.5Super cute, wholesome fun. Don't judge a book by its cover and all that. I have always preferred Trixie Belden to Nancy Drew and I'm really enjoying revisiting a childhood favourite. Funnily enough my first trixie Belden was something I randomly found in an opp shop in Sussex inlet when I was a kid and it seems fitting that I found this on the community library wall in Dapto Mall. My edition was some one's 13th birthday present in 1976, I love it when people write messages to the receiver on the flyleaf.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
(3.9)Again, this is not a mystery in the truest sense, but the reader gets to meet Dan, the final BWofG (and my person favorite male BW when I was younger). We also get to see how all the adults are actually friends (because it's important to see adults being friends in MG/YA books) and how sometimes kind words and just being friendly can help a person (also important in MG/YA).Recommended 10/11+ for scary situations, mentions of gangs, and possible underage smoking (In TB lore, Dan is 16/17 and his friend could be around his age or younger.)
This was one of my favorite Trixie Belden books when I was a kid. It stands the test of time!
I slowly amassed the whole series as first editions (it seemed so glamourous as a kid owning precious books that were older than me!) by saving all my pocket money to buy them from the local secondhand store.
They sat in a back corner of the store, thankfully ignored by everyone else, as I slowly acquired them through pocket money and then in a mass swoop for Christmas.
This book takes the Bob Whites back into the territory of not talking to people to eliminate confusion. If the characters talked, there would be no tension, and therefore no story. So they should have told a different story. There’s almost a complete lack of threat, and both of the sources of external friction in this book are dealt with off-screen. Generally unsatisfying and a weak entry for the series. Good thing that the ghost writer of this volume apparently did not return. I won’t give up, but can’t recommend this one.
This story wasn't one of my favorites in the series, and possibly still isn't, but I think I appreciate it a bit more. Gangs, gang involvement, and trying to get out of gangs and live a better life are all relevant today, and the dangers of such activities are far more glaring to me as an adult than they were as a grade school kid.
I just found a new series i liked 👍
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– approximately 1961.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
– Ready to read more.Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers decide to create an ice carnival, and determine Regan the groom's secret.
Trixie becomes suspicious of who he is and if he's responsible for some bad things that have been happening around Sleepyside.
Meanwhile, a catamount is loose on the game preserve.(Copied from The Trixie Belden Fan Website)**OMGness...does Dan become friendly with the BWG's and end up becoming one of them OR does he go to jail?????
It takes great faith and a daring rescue to convince the BWG's that he is really a good guy deep down, that he just came from a really bad place and needed to see what REAL friendship was all about.
Little things really annoyed me throughout.
Starlight suddenly being a mare probably always bugged me.
This time it was the location of the lake, which suddenly seemed to be out in the middle of the woods, accessible only by horseback, and yet this is the same lake where the kids swim in the summer and the Wheelers' maid walks down to bring them refreshments.
And the constant flip-flopping of the Bob-Whites (particularly Mart) to liking or hating Dan was really annoying.
:) And the whole Dan/Trixie/Bobby scene in the woods really touched me.
I legit feel like I may die trying to find these books cause they are that old.
First of this is the 8th book of the Trixie Belden and you don't even have to bother reading the first 7 books(EVEN THOUGH I TOTALLY RECOMMEND THEM).
There are sometimes you may feel a little lost, but Kathryn Kenny always explains after.
In this book a mysterious character named Dan Mangan comes to stay with Mr. Maypenny, just in time for the ice skating show Trixie and Honey produce to help raise money for their pen pals in Mexico.
Is Dan to blame, READ TO FIND OUT!
For Christmas one year, my parents grabbed me the entire Trixie Belden set and I couldn't put them down.
After I finished with them, they continued to purchase them as quickly as I could read them.
Even with a learning disability, I devoured the books.
I look back now and I find that Trixie Belden was much more age related to young girls, particularly to me, reading the books than Nancy Drew.
There was something in these books that I found to be a greater escape than I did ND, too.
I found that they weren't so "over the top" or dated.
Dan Mangan comes to town and he appears to be a bully. He will be living and working with Mr. Maypenny. However, the Bob-Whites think the new kid is nothing but trouble.Naturally, Trixie becomes suspicious of who Dan really is and if he's responsible for some bad things that have started happening around Sleepyside. In another storyline, a catamount (short-tailed wildcat) is loose on the Wheeler's game preserve. Is the gang safe when they go horseback riding? Just another mystery for the Bob-Whites to try and solve.
Trixie Belden and the Happy Valley Mystery is book number nine in the Trixie Belden mystery series. Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved. In this book, the pair find themselves meeting a suspicious boy from New York, named Dan, who wears a black jacket and cowboy boots. Trixie and Honey are determined to find out who this suspicious boy really is.I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
Trixie and the gang get together to organize an ice carnival to raise money for a library for their pen pals. There's a new boy in town named Dan who is staying with Mr. Maypenny and Trixie instantly disliked him, he dresses in leather and brags about belonging to a gang in the city. When things get stolen, Trixie is sure Dan is the culprit. Will the Bobwhites be able to catch the thief and get their Ice Carnival off without a hitch?
This is one of my favorite all time books. The Trixie Belden series is my favorite series. In Black Jacket Mystery, I think the reader learns not to "judge a book by it's cover" when Trixie learns that the new boy, Dan Mangan, is not at all the bad guy she thinks he is at first. The book gives you a warm, cozy feeling even though it's set in the cold winter in New York state. I highly recommend this book for readers of all ages from about 7 years old to adult.
The eighth book in the Trixie Belden series and the introduction of Dan Mangan to the series. I have to say, I didn’t like Trixie’s judgemental attitude in this one – they all have shades of it from time to time as you read the books, but she was particularly bad in this one.There were some good twists and turns with the story on this one, and I really quite enjoyed the story aside from Trixie’s attitude towards Dan.
This is my first time to read a Trixie Belden mystery. I wonder why I never found these as a kid, I would have loved them. As an adult I find it not bad and not as formulaic as other series that could be mentioned. It is weird to read about kids who have so much energy and initiative for big projects. But then, if we took away the TV/video games and overscheduling from our kids, maybe they'd have that much time and energy too.
This was one of my least favorite Trixie books so far. the plot was a little childish. And Bobby couldn't stay still! In the middle of a snow storm, Trixie just happens to pass by a hole in the middle of the forest where her brother is stuck. I do like Trixie, and the idea of her and Jim together...but only time will tell.
There's a new kid in town, and since strange things have started happening, Trixie thinks he's up to no good. Besides, he's always wearing that black jacket. Is she right? I love this book to this day, especially the great climax.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
