https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/108713.Pimp
They are all cautionary, and in that way they all fail, two of them because they are obviously bullshit, and this one because after reading it I'm sure all the good stuff the author got out of being a pimp outweighs the awfulness that followed.
The one thing that I did learn from this book, and it's a lesson that will stay ingrained in my head for the rest of my life is that even the freakiest bitch don't like to be hit with a wire coat hanger that's been twisted into a metal whip.
Iceberg Slim didn't invent the great American pimp archetype in 1969 but he codified it, he exposed it to mass culture, so he's an influential writer.
So when Robin Kelley writes for the New Yorker, "I'm always amazed when I encounter well-read people unfamiliar with Iceberg Slim," I kinda get it.
I mean, is this a good book?
Borrowing a trope from Fanny Hill and Vanity Fair, he presents Pimp as a cautionary tale, and unlike those two books he seems to mean it; he doesn't glorify his life.
But Slim sucks up to Sweet, a master who pimps “by the book,” and learns how to beat his whores into submission for the scratch they could earn.Robert “Iceberg Slim” Beck writes in street slang but also in full, richly detailed sentences, paragraphs, and chapters that draw us in and sketches for us his shaky beginnings and long affiliation with the whoring trade.
There comes a time in a reading life when a book makes sense in the order of things.
On Proxenetism and Pandering as Metaphors for Book-ReviewingFrom a feminist/post-colonial viewpoint, the activities of book-reviewing and pimping have much in common.
Operating within a patriarchal structure, the reviewer-pimp claims power over the essentially female text (recall Derrida's useful concept of "invagination"), and offers it to the reader-john as part of a quasi-commercial transaction where he is paid with "likes" or "comments".
Just as the pimp symbolizes dominance over his girls using clothes which present a distorted and masculinized view of their sexuality (latex dresses, fishnet stockings, etc), the reviewer asserts hierarchic superiority over the text by structural transformations like parody, satire and use of absurd pseudo-academic gibberish.To cut to the chase: Frances, thank you for a wonderfully inappropriate present!
His inner-life is so rich with cunning and scheming to out-think his whores."- Iceberg Slim, Pimp: The Story of My LifeIceberg Slim dances on that thread between unapologetic and remorseful.
It was while watching Dave Chappelle's "The Bird Revelation," however, when I decided I NEEDED to read Iceberg Slim sooner rather than later.
It was Chappelle who opened my eyes a bit to how understanding Slim's perspective on pimps and whores gave one a larger understanding of capitalism, power, and race in America.* So, I didn't need to enjoy this book to get something from it.* According to Robin D.
Granted, I should immediately admit that I probably like this book for all the wrong reasons; I’m sure that the ‘correct’ grounds for appreciating “Pimp” (if such standards have been established) are to ponder the struggles of the black man fighting to rise up in American society and to look at the infelicitous lot he’s been subjected to and to carefully inspect the inherent disparities built into ‘the system’, which are broadly applied based solely on skin color.
I picked up this book to read some cool pimp talk.
There are some funny pimp-talk one-liners, like: I was busier than a whore on soldiers’ payday.
There’s glossary at the end to help with the pimp lingo, in case you’re not hip enough.After a while the book stops being entertaining and the writing starts to feel flat.
It stops being funny when you get to the part where Iceberg Slim uncoils a wire coat hanger to beat up one of his whores, who is also Black.
This is not a book you can "like." It is a repulsive book you can learn something from and hope desperately that conditions have changed since its publication.
You'll find cultural commentary and insights into the psyche, but you'll also find vile, unimaginable misogyny and disregard for humanity in general.
I suppose I learned something, but the urge to vomit accompanied that awful education.
Old Iceberg Slim's tale, in the most (for lack of any other way to say it) yucky way, shows the tremendous and awful danger that occurs when the torments of anger and hatred rise above conscience and the most basic elements of human decency and actions.
Perhaps not, but he was way more influential than you think.
Now you’re asking, “Who is Iceberg Slim, Paula, you idiot?”You might not know who he is, but I bet he influenced even you.
Iceberg Slim, in short, is the backbone of hip hop music, movies, TV, comedy, and is the reason you know anything at all about flashy pimps with their pimp suits and pimp tactics and....
Maybe you don’t want to know about pimps.
This book is a semi-autobiographical mostly true look at Iceberg Slim’s 25 years pimping on the street in the early part of the 1900s.
How could anyone have any sympathy for someone who engages in the most despicable crimes?This book answers those questions because, in a surprisingly skillful way, the author, Iceberg Slim/Robert "Bobby" Beck/Robert Lee Maupin, gives humanity to the most inhuman of lifestyles.
In fact, that style of prose and the particulars that are given would appear in many cases to have lead to a misinterpretation of this book as an instruction manual rather than a cautionary tale, and the author himself warned against that reading later in his career.
What does it mean to be a hero in an antagonistic universe?This book is a thoughtful and brutal examination of the choices one is forced to make in a world turned against the individual.
An ecstatic ascension of hopes and elation, built up over several pages, comes crashing down when through various subtleties this once thought good woman is dramatically revealed to be a man in disguise, hid behind cheapness.
One can hear the ominous echo of ancient political thought across many a page of this book.
i know there's a big debate - at least at the academic level - about whether slim wrote this book or it was ghostwritten.
i'm not sure that matters to me - the story still needs to be told.
it's interesting that despite the fact that slim eventually reformed, this book has some of the coldest lines ever written about women in it.
it's also really hard to resist the time period the book takes place in, and i think slim does a killer job using the lingo in a way that makes it understandable.maybe this is less a book and more an experience and a life.
I wonder how many people will end up here because of Dave Chappelle's Netflix special.Interesting book, the language is coarse and rather offensive to women, but that was the times they lived in.I wonder if the pimp game today is still as complex as it was back then. I'd recommend it to everyone to read, especially if you enjoy the show Boondocks and the character A Pimp named Slickback.
Always get your money in front just like a whore.” ---Iceberg Slim, “Pimp: The Story of My Life”Robert Beck, a.k.a. Iceberg Slim, was born in 1918 to a single mother.
Beck recalls the life that could have been lived with a kind-hearted man named Henry.
A devout Christian and well-to-do business owner (a rarity at the time, especially for black people), Henry Upshaw fell madly in love with Beck’s mother.
Thus, “Pimp” was born.Beck would go on to write and publish seven more books, all of which quickly gained a following, especially among the black community.
Entertaining to the core, but that doesn't mean Iceberg brushes over the nuance and complexity surrounding his situation. "The Skull Book on Pimping" concisely covers issues that sociologists have prattled about in dense and meaningless jargon for decades. Slim is among the few honest autobiographers in his embrace of his contradictions. The book is neither self-glorifying nor moralizing. Nor is it, and it does not pretend to be, simply the facts. Like the hip-hop music it would influence several decades later, it thrives in its own contradictions. As a Gemini, I find that sort of thing to be excessively dope.
From the films and modern music videos often pushed out in the media, many people often see life on the streets, surrounded by girls, money and drugs, to be glamorous, but Pimp is one of few books that gives readers a view of the ugly side of things, as told from the perspective of a former pimp himself.
It's an often dirty and unsafe environment, where the most vulnerable of people are exploited, and this book captures it all for what it really is, without sugar-coating anything.
Y por mucho que él intente planear este texto como una especie de historia de redención y de cómo puede uno salir de esa espiral de violencia, parece difícil creer que no aceptaría esos honores con orgullo.Para Slim su "profesión" era la única forma de acceder al mundo de lujo y dinero de los blancos.
Quizá el relato se hace un poco largo y las situaciones se repiten, pero uno puede sentir por qué Pimp ejerce una influencia tan poderosa incluso hoy en muchos autores negros.
brutal, ugly, honest, energetic.
so maybe bad things have happened to me in latter years, but i also grew up comfortably, i had good parents, good brother, good travel, good schooling, some friends, some girls, book intelligence if not street, rewarded art inclinations, did not ever much suffer racism, poverty, deceit, stupidity, cruelty, assault, of any of the many ways that the author has suffered....
as far as nature, i was never as handsome, street-smart, never attracted to pleasures now, to stupid girls, to triumph by manipulation.
this is an ugly world full of stupid hustlers and constant danger.
A powerful story of underground America.
Many of my clients don't enjoy reading, and I have few people utilizing my books, but one client in particular is a frequent borrower and when I told him I was reading this memoir, he shared with me several books that were important to him growing up, this being one of them (another was a Donald Goines novel I had already purchased but not read yet).
Iceberg Slim brought the hood to America, and in the gritty, disgusting way it sometimes presents itself.
Even though this memoir began before WW2, the language, the movement, the neighborhood, it all felt the same.
I also found myself disbelieving that any of the women who worked for him REALLY talked the way he wrote them.
But Slim's memoir is important, it brought me a new awareness.
Granted, while some might read this book and take it that way, I look at it as to why one shouldn't get into the life at all.
Like what Iceberg said at the end that pimping is for young, stupid men.
Same can said for the street walkers, it is for young, stupid women.
Iceberg does acknowledge behind the mask of every pimp in his biography there is a dark past into why they get into the life.
Again fantastic look into the life of pimping by Iceberg Slim.
It's quite similar to Pimp which gives one an idea into Goines' life as a pimp.
The one thing that I did learn from this book, and it's a lesson that will stay ingrained in my head for the rest of my life is that even the freakiest bitch don't like to be hit with a wire coat hanger that's been twisted into a metal whip.
Even if the woman likes being smacked around, being beaten with the coat hanger will set her straight (straight meaning here spread her legs willingly for you, and then spread them for money which she will then give to you without cheating you of any of it).
I learned everything i know from this book.
I currently am a pastor at the Skokie Baptist revival church in Skokieville, NY, and I make all my flock read this book.
Sure, some of the older members don't like the dirty language and risque situations (the scene where all the ho's air their battered pussies out of the side of his convertible as he drives down the street has a few double entendres that are quite graphic), but most of them sleep through church anyways.
Five stars!!!!Through with the game before you knew what to do with the game,Pastor Spots
Slim writes with poetic ease of the streets, he was born with storytellers talent. He lived a hard life and was a real pimp sometimes he doesn't fully describe his pimp ways, but I'm sure he wasn't as soft as he sometimes portrays. I love all Slims books and suggest them to any one interested in the world of prostitution and big city's back in the good old days, when gangsters were truly gangsters and hustling was an exciting way of life. Similar style to my idol Herbert Huncke, pure, natural &a
Slim writes with poetic ease of the streets, he was born with storytellers talent. He lived a hard life and was a real pimp sometimes he doesn't fully describe his pimp ways, but I'm sure he wasn't as soft as he sometimes portrays. I love all Slims books and suggest them to any one interested in the world of prostitution and big city's back in the good old days, when gangsters were truly gangsters and hustling was an exciting way of life. Similar style to my idol Herbert Huncke, pure, natural & raw.
"I tried hard to make up for all those years.
I had neglected her.
It's hard to square an emotional debt.
That last sad day she looked up into my eyes from the hospital bed.
In a voice I could scarcely hear through her parched lips, she whispered, 'Forgive me, Son, forgive me.
Mama didn't know.
I'm sorry.'I stood there watching her last tears rolling down her dead cheeks from the blank eyes.
I crushed her to me.
I tried to get my final plea past death's grim shield, 'Oh Mama, nothing has been your fault, believe me, nothing.
A dark and fascinating insight on the life of iceberg slim.
I tried this on a recommendation from Dave Chapelle's comedy special. It's probably an important piece of American culture, from a sociology perspective. That said, I just couldn't make it through it. I almost never give up on a book for cursing or sex, so I think it's just how much the character hates women and how dirty I felt reading it that made me put it down. Not that Iceberg Slim would be offended.
I was horrified and -- at the same time -- perversely fascinated with the abuse of women.
In one memorable scene Slim tells his mentor, an older, more successful, pimp about a problem with one of his whores refusing to work because she is sick.
The older pimp tells him how to braid a whip from a metal coat hanger, and we learn in graphic detail how Slim uses his mentor's advice to achieve his desired results.
In one chapter Slim gets a married woman in loving relationship to leave her husband, not with seduction, romance or sex (not even sure they ever have any), but simply telling her she can come work for him as his whore.
"A pimp is happy when his whores giggle.
He knows they are still asleep." Chilling.
This was a loan from Dan. The narrator is such a bastard.
If it wasn't an autobiography, it would be decried as misogynistic, which it is.
But that would be the point, right?
I mean, he is a pimp.
Hustle & Flow owes a great debt to Pimp and its sympathetic portrayal of that world.Putting morality aside, if one can, the narrator's voice is unflinching and compelling.
Pimp reminds me of The Invisible Man and would make a nice companion to that text.
Frankly speaking, the book neither gave me an insight into the world totally unknown andalien to me nor did it provide any insights into human behavior.
It was just a story told told by a person.
While the book was slightly boring at times, my curiosity kept me going.
When I finsihed the book, I felt relieved actually.I don't know why, sometimes autobiorgraphies tend to be drab and boring.
There is so much to know from his life but it would haev been more impressive had he naratted the story in simple english.
