https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25402194-the-choice
Loved this book, and as all of his books this is unpredictable with a really happy ending. I loved this book and again provided me with lots of warm fuzzy, even the odd tear was shed moments. It sweeps you up into fantasy situation where you can easily loose touch with reality. A great escape from life's mundane events.
Mr. Sparks, All my life I believed in order for a wonderful marriage all you needed was true love. And now, knowing that for a relationship to work it needs much more then love, reading your books is honestly quite pathetic and sad. All your books are the same, have you ever thought about writing a book that doesn't involve two people falling in love over the course of twenty-four hours?
WE GET IT, TRAVIS GETS IT, HIS FRIENDS GET IT, PEOPLE WHO HAVEN'T EVEN HEARD OF THIS BOOK GET IT!
I did prefer Travis to Gabby, but I don't really know what that says.The relationship between the two is soooooooooo unrealistic.
Mr. Sparks you have your two main characters fall in love in one weekend!!!!
I was so annoyed by how everything went that I was praying to the book gods to just have Gabby die!
Wealthy white people fall in love, someone ends up in the hospital, but in the long run it all works out for them...
The Choice has assured I will never read another Nicholas Sparks book.
I found this novel to be a long-winded, tedious waste of time.
If you are going to write about a dog whelping – get your facts right.
If you are going to write about comatose people – get your facts right.
, you might want to try giving her a brain.
If you want a romance novel, a Harlequin writer could have told this story in a third the pages, on a higher reading level and probably have added some needed passion to it.
'i love you Travis Parker.' 'And I love you Gabby Holland.' I do not understand how that can happen in that short amount of time while she's already in love with somebody else.
And she cheats on her boyfriend by sleeping with Travis ever spare minute she has for like five days.
Travis has a written document that's signed by Gabby saying if she's in a coma for more than twelve weeks with no sign of recovery whatsoever, she basically wants to be taken off life support.
O Milagre de Travis ***Não sou crente, mas se há coisa em que piamente acredito é em Milagres do Coração!E isto porque já assisti à realização de muitos impossíveis, apenas por obra e graça desse magnífico sentimento, que dá pelo nome de Amor!Assim, quando Travis, que é perdido de amores pela sua Gabby, atropela um menu de razões dificilmente refutáveis, optando por não desligar a máquina que mantém a sua amada presa à vida, eu senti um Milagre a caminho.É certo que tal decisão se opõe à vontade de Gabby, que antes redigira um documento com instruções específicas em sentido contrário!E não é menos certo, ser altamente improvável a reanimação de Gabby após um longo período comatoso.Além do mais, desligar a máquina seria pôr termo à agonia duma esperança defraudada, cortar com aquele estado límbico de auto-esquecimento a que se entregara, e ...
Pulled at my heart strings and ended up crying for about 5 mintues at the end. His writting has a way of getting in your head and you can imagine yourself in the situation. What would you do......
I'm glad I read it, as I've been curious about the Nicholas Sparks following (at least among a certain, um, demographic).
Sparks' writing style is also clear, it's an absurdly fast read, and I'd be lying if I claimed the storyline didn't occasionally leave me a bit verklempt.That, however, is where my praise for The Choice ends.
First, the characters in this book were ridiculous.
I'm sorry, Nicholas Sparks fans.
I do enjoy a good fluff-filled love story, and I'm a big fan of certain types of fantasy (hooray, Harry Potter).
Maybe The Choice would make a better screenplay; I thoroughly enjoyed the cinematic Notebook, after all.
Uno de los libros más reales y justificados de Nicholas Sparks.Tiene su dosis de drama, pero es un drama real, de pie de calle, el que le puede pasar a todo el mundo.
Travis es un personaje muy logrado, lleno de miedos e inseguridades, pero decidido y valiente a la hora de luchar por lo que quiere.El final es puro agobio, todo iba mal y estaba ahogándome en mis lágrimas.
Y conociendo al autor, ya me hacía a la idea del final que iba a darle.
Y ME EQUIVOQUÉ.Espero que la película le haga justicia al libro, porque tiene el listón muy alto.
I think I understand what the author was trying to convey with this character but she bothered me.
Especially in how Gabby and Travis got together.
Now I understand that as soon as Gabby chose Travis she quickly ended it with her boyfriend but it still doesn't excuse (in my mind) that she cheated...big time.
I loved the turn of events and the choices that had to be made throughout the whole book, before the ultimate relationship between Gabby and Travis and afterwards.
Despite my mixed feelings about Gabby being in a relationship when she got together with Travis.
I made the wrong choice in reading this lol!
It was very boring and 'extremely' predictable!
I did tear up like once maybe but nothing beyond that!
The last few chapters were slightly better but still very predictable.
It was a one time read, more like a waste of my time read.
Yes I will be watching the movie and yes I am excited to see it but that's only because when it comes to Nicholas Sparks books the movies are wayyyy BETTER than the books.
The next Nicholas Spark book I'll be reading will be The Rescue.
This book was a bit longer than I think it needed to be but overall an okay read. Nothing super amazing though, which was a bit disappointing but oh well.
Bilingual review / Opinião bilingueENGThis must be the 10th Nicholas Sparks book that I read, after a few years break. The last one had been “Dear John”, and I hated it to the point that I never thought I’d read one book from this man again. To be clear: he’s still the same. If you want to know his “formula”, mix up these ingredients:- Many dialogues (to make it lighter) with easy and random jokes;- Really cool and sexy guy with little holes on his chicks who enjoys his beer;- Pseudo-independent
Se querem conhecer o estilo recorrente de NS somem estes ingredientes:- Muitos diálogos a propósito de nada com piadas aleatórias.- Chavalinho porreiro com covinhas na cara que bebe cerveja- Chavalinha com mau feitio que bebe Diet Coke- Encontros comuns – jantares, barbecues – combinados e sem nada de espontâneo, onde eles discutem a espontaneidade e decidem que vão dar um mergulho, aprender a andar de mota, algo do género.- Beijos conservadores no final desse primeiro encontro- Um viúvo- Alguém estéril- Um acidente- Uma doença- Um cão- Uma ligação inexplicável com um animal que não lembra a ninguém – como o Noah da Alquimia do Amor com o cisne, ou agora o Travis com um pombo.- Um dilema moral complicado, do género: a) ela está a morrer, vale a pena ficar com ela?
This has been my favorite book and my plan is to read every Nicholas Sparks book.
I read this book last summer and this book is also about love and promises.
I learned not all promises should be kept (even though they should).
In the time of there marriage a promise came up- If anything ever happened to Gabby and needed be put on life support, then her husband Travis, would only let her be connected for the three months that the insurance covered.
Travis needs to make a decision whether Gabby will stay alive or not.
Goodreads #RomanceWeek16"Estar contigo mostrou-me tudo o que tenho perdido." * "Spending time with you showed me what I’ve been missing in my life."-Travis
When a new Nicholas Sparks novel comes out, you know what you're in for - a southern romance between a romantic, lovable, handsome man and an intelligent, independent, naturally beautiful woman.
I'm not a big fan of romances, but Sparks books are simply good stories and always enjoyable reads.
"The Choice" is about two neighbors who fall in love, despite one being in a relationship.
Readers don't find out what choice the title suggests until deep into the story.
While this is another surefire bestseller, I still prefer my favorite Sparks' books: "A Bend in the Road" and "The Rescue."
The worst thing is that I paid full price for it at the airport and didn't even like it well enough to pass it on to anyone else to read.
I don't know that I'll ever read another one of his books again and if I do, rest assured, I'll get it at the library.
The funny thing is that my other choice was a Grisham novel (another author who writes anything now that his name is known) but I'm wondering if that would have been a better choice.
I haven't read him in awhile so hopefullyhe's gotten back in the groove!
I'm one of the few people on the planet who is not a huge Nicholas Sparks fan, but that said, I liked this book.
This is a book for those times when you just want to sit in front of the fire and read something that isn't too deep.
It's a very easy read, something that you can put down when the kids need diapers changed or someone has started a kitchen fire, and when you have the chance to pick it back up, you won't be totally lost.The story line is easy to follow, not so many characters that things get complicated.
This was my first Nicholas Sparks (unless you count the movie version of The Notebook) and it was... OK, actually.Yes, it's schmaltzy but I'm a big ol' softie beneath my tank-like exterior and am not completely averse to some schmaltz from time to time. While this didn't exactly set my world afire, it was quite entertaining and even had some poignant moments. I'll probably read some more Sparks eventually but there're definitely a lot of books in front of it in the queue...
Now I decide to read another of the Sparks books, only to be terribly disappointed AGAIN.
Utterly perfect, and I would punch him in the face if I met him in real life, not fall madly in love with him.
Now Travis has to make a 'choice' (clever use of a title....not) after he breaks his perfection by making a mistake and putting Gabby in a coma.I spent the whole book hoping that the next page I turned would be the last.
A friend told me this was a good, but I get irritated with Sparks tendency to kill off his protagonists by the end.The Choice is a great read (and thoughtful...who doesn't need to be reminded that we all need Living Wills.) I loved the Part One where Travis and Gabby "grow" in love.
As a reader, I wanted more details, but admit this would have muddle the plot and ultimately the point of the story: How far would you go to keep the hope of love alive?A great read for a snowy afternoon under a quilt.
Nakon još jedne pročitane Sparksove knjige sam sad potpuno sigurna da su mi bolji svi filmovi snimljeni po njima.
Čitajući njegove romane kao da čitam dobar opširniji sinopsis i upravo zato filmovi mi ostavljaju puno jači, dublji dojam.
Tako i u ovom romanu ljubavna priča Travisa i Gabi, iako zabavna, nije me posebno dojmila, a čitala sam je stalno očekujući da se nešto desi i poremeti tu idilu kao i u svakom Sparksovom romanu.
Stoga sam nakon pročitane posljednje stranice rekla sebi, u redu dobra je to priča, ali ipak jedva čekam njenu ekranizaciju kojom bi tek trebao biti postignut pravi efekat na emocije.
But what if . . .  No one can write a love story like Nicholas Sparks. There something about the way he tells a story that gets me every single time. This isn’t my favorite of his books, but it’s one that I still really enjoyed. What made the story great was Travis and Gabby. Their banter and teasing made me laugh and their connection felt natural from the start. They just sort of fit.It was hard for me to believe that anyone would be ready to say the l-word after only one weekend together thou
No one can write a love story like Nicholas Sparks.
There something about the way he tells a story that gets me every single time.
Maybe because it’s Nicholas Sparks and he’s written so many books that I absolutely adore??With any of his books, you have to expect a sad turn.
There is always something that sort of test the couple’s love for one another and this one was no different.The story is broken up into two parts and with the start of part two, I felt like one thing was happening, when in fact, it was something totally different.
I LOVE THIS BOOK SO MUCH WOW TOUCHED MY SOUL!!!!
I watched the movie first and I absolutely HATED it, I was VERY very disappointed.Then I decided to give it another chance since it's about a medical student (kind of obsessed with the concept) and read the book during the summer, just going to be honest here, I couldn't even finish it. SHALLOW AND ANNOYING!I do feel bad giving this book less than 3 stars but damn Nicholas Sparks, you could do SO much better! The plot actually had potential, it started off as okay but then shit turned bad. 👎🏼
WOW !! This book takes my breath away. The title of the book is so right and I hope that I will never have to do that choice. Nicholas Sparks wrote another incredible book that I won't forget any soon! I without a doubt recommand The Choice to everyone, it makes me feel grateful for what I have. Seriously people, read this book !! Travis & Gabby are going to be in my heart for a while
“Spending time with you showed me what I’ve been missing in my life.”I watched the movie 4,5 years ago so I didn’t remember most of the story.
I enjoy Nicholas Sparks writing and the way he put magic in his not-extra ordinary stories, But after reading this book I realised that I should give his books a space now, They all starting to give me same vibes, I read A bend in road and The choice in a month, both stories deals with grown-up people, which is not the thing I enjoyed most, First half of the book I enjoyed that was so fun and sweet, but something in the stories aren’t clear for me like I wanted to know more about Kevin what was his reasons, and what exactly happened with him.
And now that I've read the book I'm pleased to see that I made the right choice in waiting for it to come to tv (which doesn't take all that long these days, only a few months most of the time).SPOILERS!!!!!!!!The second part was a bit of tear jerker once I realised what the reveal was, as Travis' dilemma is my worst nightmare.
Even if the probability were low, it's never completely impossible and I don't know if I could deal with the possibility that I was killing my family member when there was any likelihood that they weren't gone.I look forward to reading more from Sparks although I think I'll do my best to avoid the more depressing ones, I'm not a fan of books that make me full-on cry.
Travis Parker tiene todo lo que pueda desear, pero se resiste a enamorarse. Esta cambia cuando conoce a su nueva vecina Gabby.
I love how this book starts out.
Gabby accusing Travis of his dog getting her dog pregnant - the banter is just hilarious.
The fact that she took Molly to the clinic that Travis works at is hilarious too.
Isn't it ironic - it is like fate is putting them together.
These two cannot resist each other and are becoming closer and closer.
I feel so bad for Travis having to decide to take her off life support or not - even though she wants to be taken off as he will says he just can't seem to do it.
