https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537102.Myths_and_Symbols_in_Indian_Art_and_Civilization
The most reverent, lyrical and aesthetically pleasing treatment of Indian thought that I have come across since The Discovery of India. Zimmer was a genius much ahead of his time.
I will let it all settle in; and revel in the mighty imagination of the folks who dared to envision the circularity of events and the multiple, disorienting manifestations of that which has ‘no other’. Dr. Zimmer, gifted with extraordinary neatness of words, and a scholar of remarkable depth, has my greatest regards.
Wow. Okay. The real treasure lies buried in the innermost recess of our own home. Reading Indian myths and symbols enriches my mind and soul, the way a healthy and nutritious meal enriches the body. A very good read.
Zimmer himself was a refugee from Nazi Germany who ended up teaching in the US and passed away in the early 1940s.This isn't a history of Indian art, but articles about key aspects of Indian religion--the gods and their vehicles, lotus, elephants, the triad of Brahma, Siva and Vishnu, the wheel of rebirth, the Mother Goddess...inspired by the myths alone, although using some sculptures and art works as illustrations.
The great scholar of Indian temple architecture, Stella Kramrisch, noted for example that Zimmer had never even seen a Hindu temple.)But this isn't why one reads this volume.
The retelling of the myths is detailed with restrained but illuminating analysis & interpretation.
This book brings even more life to my readings of the Upanishads and the Bhagavadgita (et al).
A must read for anyone curious about myths & symbols in Indian art and civilization.
And it lies behind the stove, the life-and-warmth giving center of the structure of our existence, our heart of hearts -- if we could only dig." (Heinrich Zimmer)This book gives readers a plethora of tools to start digging.
The work is clear, concise and well-ordered. It really gives you a piece of the picture when it comes to the mentality of the people behind this beautiful art and symbolism.
This book is awesome. I am always fascinated by India's rich spiritual heritage. They use some pretty grotesque symbols to convey certain concepts, and the art is sublime. A good read.
Anybook that attempts to translate Indian motif to the Western mind will be criticised by some of the subcontinent. Indian sysmbol is so diverse and expressive after all. As an overview this is a beautiful attempt for a non India to gain some grasp to build on if he ver seeks to submerge himself in the ocean of Indian thought.
Por otro lado, la historia de la construcción del libro añade ciertos trazos dramáticos a su lectura: siendo conferencias que Heinrich Zimmer dio en Columbia tras su emigración de Europa por causa de la persecución de su esposa (judía) durante la Segunda Guerra Mundial, el autor no tuvo oportunidad de compilar los textos, pues un día enfermó y a la semana murió súbitamente por una neumonía.
Otro titán del estudio del Mito, Joseph Campbell, se encargó de revisar los textos de Zimmer para darle la forma final al océano de pensamientos.
While not exactly the most exciting read you're likely to encounter, Zimmer's book on the complex mythology that underlies the art and architecture of India is a very valuable volume for those interested in better understanding Indian culture.
If anything, the situation is even more complicated in Indian art, where the gods and goddesses change shape and form with frightening regularity.
Even the Buddha, in some cases, is seen as an incarnation of Vishnu.
Luckily, Zimmer is extremely helpful in sorting out how all these variant incarnations and avatars are related, and the visual forms they take.
So far the take on Indian myth (from a person with a thoroughly Western background and perspective) is interesting and valuable. Indian myth is a weak area in my knowledge of world myth as a whole, and this book is a good introduction. Obsessively taking notes as I go, and only reading in my spare time lately, but I don't see myself putting this one down.
Very interesting read. I enjoyed that the text was written by Zimmer but edited by Campbell. Since the study of Hinduism is completely new to me, there was a lot to take in with this text. However, I am fascinated by it all!! The only thing that I didn't like about the text is that the great images of the Indian art are small and in the back of the book and in black and white.
Brilliant and thought provoking. Offers stimulating interpretation of mythic iconography of varying kinds, while relating information in an easynto follow format. It's got pictures too, WOOT!
magistral
