https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/767680.If_You_Give_a_Mouse_a_Cookie
If you give a mouse a cookie, he's probably going to poop all over your kitchen counter.
He's certainly NOT going to do all of the cute things that this book suggests.Last night I read this to my son and then tucked him and his fifteen stuffed animals (one of which is most likely a mouse) into bed.
Tonight I will again read this book to my son and then we'll probably sing the Mighty Mouse theme song.
But I must say that my son really does like this book.
Who remembers this book?Happy is as happy is!!!!Some books just bring back great memories!!
René Girard identifies this parallel with chilling accuracy to our present condition: "The distance between Don Quixote and the petty bourgeois victim of advertising is not so great as romanticism would have us believe.” It is easy to replace “bourgeois victim” with our murine hero, raising to idolatry his search for false desires, which leads to a parodically circuitous odyssey of “want.” Numeroff’s story is one of deceptive simplicity, but with a jarring impact.
And chances are if he asks for a glass of milk, he’s going to want a cookie to go with it.” Thus desire begets desire, begets desire – the search for fulfillment is endless, and our hero is left always hungry for something new, but can never identify what that is.
3 Cookie ★'sIf You Give a Mouse a Cookie is an okay picture book, it's not a favorite of mine that's for sure but at the same time, it is really cute. I found this one to be a bit boring and it actually kinda annoyed me. The illustrations weren’t very colorful nor were they bold enough. The story does not have the deepest meaning, but overall... Meh, it's an okay book for children, I guess. I won't be reading it again though, once was plenty.
Every time, somebody says Cookie or mouse, it is impossible for me to not repeat the entire title.Funny and unique. This poem is innovative and entertains amazingly.
Although I do have to admit that Laura Joffe Numeroff's If You Give a Mouse a Cookie is a cute and entertainingly sweet enough little story (and I also realise that young children often tend to much love cumulative tales and perhaps even guessing what might occur next, what might the next scenario be), personally (and having first read If You Give a Mouse a Cookie as an older adult in my late 40s), I am left more than a bit underwhelmed and unmoved (as even Felicia Bond's accompanying illustrations seem rather unspectacular and much too gaudy and cartoon like, even rather strangely unrealistic for my personal aesthetic tastes).
I know a ton of people love this book, but not me.
The illustrations aren't horrible and neither are they uniquely memorable; moreover, the story is uninteresting and bland.
The story is cute, but it is just a bland series of partially logical observations made by the author about this mouse.
I could come up with something similar, so let me try (I might just publish it later).If you give a dog some food he might want some water.
If you give a dog some water he might want a walk.
If you give a dog a walk he might want a snack.
I enjoy children's books more as an adult than I ever did as a child.
Perhaps, this is because I can see past the cutesy bullshit and appreciate the adult agenda within them.
Who's really surprised?If You Give a Mouse a Cookie is both a lesson about the very adult dangers of kindness, and can even be interpreted as a warning against welfare.
(I don't know enough to have a proper opinion on the welfare debate, but I appreciate that a childrens book can even raise that question.) It's impact might be lost on child readers, but I believe the exposure to such concepts is good for their minds.
There's a good amount of happy nostalgia associated with this book for me, so, the bad is that it makes it hard for me to review this objectively, but, the good is that obviously I loved it when I was little.
The illustrations are adorable and the absurdity of the antics of this helpful little mouse are delightful!
I also adore (now and when I was little) the scale of everything: the mouse in relation to the cookie, the tiny box for the mouse to sleep in, etc.
I know, it probably seems odd for a 23 year old to give a children's book such a good review, but this has always been, and still is, one of my all time favorite books.
If You Give a Mouse a Cookie was one of the first books that I read.
It was in my elementary school's library, and if you go to that school and find the book it probably still has my name stamped in the back of it a hundred times.
I love the continuous progression of the story and the mouse's needs.
While I read this as a child, I decided to re-read it again as my wife has not read any of the quintessential childrens books. As an adult reading this book to an adult, there are a few things to note: (SPOILER ALERT)1) Mice are messy2) Apparently, kids will clean up after the messes that mice leave3) Mice are much better at drawing pictures than children4) Stranger Danger doesn't extend into the word of critters-Nick
Este libro es muy famoso en inglés. Sin saberlo, se lo compré a mi hija de 3 años, ya que le gusta mucho los libros. Es una lectura de fácil compresión que trata sobre un ratón y sus interminables deseos.
Okay well, I guess I'm about the only person in the world who thinks these books stink.
Most humans can I think.
I think you could take some 78 year old crackhead who has been huffing paint and gas for the past 58 years, give him a pen, a piece of paper, and while dangling a crack rock in front of him, tell him to write a mediocre story and you'd have something along the lines of this masterpiece right here.
Can I get lucky like this chick?
Do I even want to be lucky like her?
'If You Give a Mouse a Cookie' is one that I would use to teach the children in my class 'cause and effect,' sequencing, and various procedures for everyday life.
For example, at the beginning of the story the cookie leads to the mouse wanting milk, then in the end, after a long chain of cause and effect events, the cycle also ends with a cookie and milk.
By having children guess what may happen or what they would want to happen, the story is a great gateway to classroom discussions that create higher levels of thinking in young children.
Well, I just reread this for the June Picture Books Club at the Children's Books group. The theme for the month of June is culinary.My favorite of this series has always been If You Give a Moose a Muffin. I like the alliteration, the moose, the humor best of all.But, this is a fun book too. I like all of Laura Joffe Numeroff's "If You..." books. They're very engaging.
This series of books is ADOOORRRRABLE!!! I loved it & try to give it as gifts to little ones (3& up age group) when I can find it. Simply darling :-))
This book is either an innocent fun and silly story...or its a first childhood look at conceptual social critique on the inherent consequences of social welfare... You tell me. All jokes aside, this book is adorable, with wonderful illustrations.
বাংলায় একটা পরবাদ আছে "বসতে দিলে শুতে চায়"; এই গলপের Shoulder Strap Jeans পড়া আদুরে ইঁদুরটার অবসথা হয়েছে তেমন। পরথমে খেতে চেয়েছিলো কুকি, সেই কুকি খেতে গিয়ে তাকে বিছানা পেতে শুতে দিতে হয়েছে। শুধু তাই না, তাকে ঘুম পাড়ানোর জনয আবার গলপও শোনাতে হবে!গলপের একটা মজাটা হলো বাসতবের বসতে দিলে শুতে চাওয়া মানুষের মতো ইঁদুরের কানডকারখানা বিরকতির উদরেক ঘটায় না। বরং উজজবল ছবি দেখতে দেখতে ইঁদুরের সপতকানড পড়তে বেশ ভালো লাগে!
বাংলায় একটা প্রবাদ আছে "বসতে দিলে শুতে চায়"; এই গল্পের Shoulder Strap Jeans পড়া আদুরে ইঁদুরটার অবস্থা হয়েছে তেমন। প্রথমে খেতে চেয়েছিলো কুকি, সেই কুকি খেতে গিয়ে তাকে বিছানা পেতে শুতে দিতে হয়েছে। শুধু তাই না, তাকে ঘুম পাড়ানোর জন্য আবার গল্পও শোনাতে হবে!গল্পের একটা মজাটা হলো বাস্তবের বসতে দিলে শুতে চাওয়া মানুষের মতো ইঁদুরের কান্ডকারখানা বিরক্তির উদ্রেক ঘটায় না। বরং উজ্জ্বল ছবি দেখতে দেখতে ইঁদুরের সপ্তকান্ড পড়তে বেশ ভালো লাগে!
The mouse, obviously a metaphorical stand-in for humanity, (which often gets referred to as a 'rat race'), wants a cookie.
Now, if we understand cookies to be a representation of that which we desire, the metaphor could not be more apt.
We all want cookies, yet they do little for us, except maybe go to our thighs.
Yet as soon as we get a cookie, we want another.
Only by freeing ourselves from the cookie in the first place can we cast off this false consciousness which the milk makers manufacture.
True happiness comes from casting off the cookie.
I thought the story line was perfectly planned out in the tale of events of the mouse and the small boy that makes a small friend by showing he cares.
The care and kindness of the little boy in the story towards giving the mouse everything he might need shows the friendly, compassion that children can exhibit to their friends and family.
Even more specifically, children could have a discussion with their parents or school class about the specific qualities that they too can exhibit in kindness and generousity towards others, as the child did in this story.
With the energetic illustrations and easy-to-read progression of the book, it is sure to be a family and classroom favorite!
Summary and Critique: This has always been one of my favorite books because it was one of the first books i ever learned how to read.
It was just a progression of events that all lead about to the fact that you gave the mouse a cookie.
Classroom use: Since this book is for such young kids, i would have them do a drawing assignment of their favorite part with a few sentences explaining what they drew with the help of me.Genre: Comedy, humorFormat: picture back with little textGrade level: PreK- 3rd gradeTheme/topic: Sharing, compassionGender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: None were involved in this book Citation: Numeroff, L., & Bond, F.
If you give a mouse a cookie.
What a nice and well-mannered little mouse :)
It circles back the mouse asking the little boy for some milk and a cookie at the end.Characteristics to Support Genre: This book has colorful, playful pictures that help the reader make predictions and understand the text.Concepts Integrated: cause & effect, events in a story, sequencing, social studies, goods & services, wants & needsOther Suggestions that could be useful regarding literary content, reading level, and other ways in which the book might be integrated: 1-3 reading levelWriting - This book teaches students about cause and effect relationships.
This is not the kind of thing I normally read, but I was in the waiting room at the dentist while my mom was getting a root canal and I'd already finished the book I'd brought with me, as well as a Vogue magazine and the issue of Martha Stewart Living where Martha throws some weak pie-related shade at Gwyneth Paltrow. So it was either this or David Decides About Thumbsucking. Mouse it is!Long story short: if you give a mouse a cookie, you'll never get rid of him.
Originally posted on www.yareads.com, reviewed by Nichole.When I was teaching pre-k with 4-6 years olds, I scheduled a whole week dedicated to Laura Numeroff. I had everything planned out in my curriculum and the students did a whole bunch of fun things….they loved it! In my daycare, I have the following ages: 1,2,3,4. This book was a little too…..advanced for them. They didn’t seem to find the story very interesting and the pictures weren’t colorful or bold enough. I would definitely recommend this book for a slightly older age group (probably 4-6 is a good place to start.)
A young boy begins his day by offering a little brown mouse a cookie.
No longer happy with that, the mouse wants more; a cup of milk to quench his thirst, a napkin to wipe his face, a mirror to make sure he looks okay and so on.
All common sense activities that take them on a journey around the house.
Except by the end of the day the boy is worn out, the house is somewhat of a mess and the cycle begins again.This is a cute childrens' picture book that teaches young boys and girls about sharing and caring for others.
While there were a lot of books that I really enjoyed as a child, If You Give a Mouse a Cookie has always been one of my favorites.
It was a reassurance that this book, this story, is being well loved- like how I loved the copy at my library when I was a kid.Even coming into this book as an adult, it was fun to read about the little mouse's shenanigans, and the little boy struggling to keep up.
The story was very kid like, fun, and almost whimsical in a way.
I find my daughter and I quoting this book daily as we end our meals with, "Would you like a cookie to go with it?" The illustrations bring depth to each page from the detail of each hair the mouse cuts off his head to each crease in the mouse's underwear.
The story might make me laugh more than my daughter as I always feel like my children are asking me for one thing after another.
This book brings energy and interaction to reading and students can laugh along with the story as the mouse creates one silly task for the boy after another.
After the mouse eats the cookie, he asks for some milk and then a straw.
The mouse's requests begin simple enough but he continues to ask for more and more and until he ends up moving into the boy's home.This story is suitable for children aged 4-6.
It is a simple picture book with colourful illustrations on each page which would capture the attention of any young child.
I think that it would be a great story to read aloud to a younger KS1 class as it is easy to follow and children would find it both interesting and funny.
If you Give a Mouse a Cookie is one book from the series written by Laura Joffe Numeroff.
This book is fun and humorous as it starts out by a boy eating a cookie.
The boy spots a mouse and offers a cookie to the mouse, but this starts a long line of giving and taking between the mouse and the boy.
As a child I loved this series because the mouse was so cute and the fact that he could eat a cookie was hilarious to me, just hearing of this story puts a smile on my face.
Is it sad that I still like this book so much? I mean, shouldn't I eventually grow out of picture books? Especially picture books that don't really having absolutely breathtaking illustrations (like Barbara Cooney's) or a heartbreaking story? Well, I guess I'll never be mature, but I still love If You Give a Mouse a Cookie. ;P
I get it, this book is satirizing appeasement because it can escalate.
However, I think that this is offensive to people like myself with lactose intolerance and glucose intolerance.
Additionally, I see chocolate chips inside of that cookie.
I always see people drink milk with choco chip cooks, but I don't see anyone else dunking their dried out fruit in the juice of a cow's utters!
I don't have the luxury of experiencing this myself because I have lactose and glucose intolerance.
Now, if you're gonna write a book maybe you should consider how your readers may feel ???
I feel certain I must have read this before at some point but I really didn't remember anything about it.
I actually had a bit of a distaste built up for reading it--and now I am honestly not sure why!!!
It is such a cute, fun story!
I think maybe I just felt the whole thing had been over-commercialized and there are so many spin-offs now (which I also haven't read so it's not fair of me to judge!) Anyway, I think it's just the sort of story I would have liked when I was little, too--taking care of an animal, and a cute mouse at that (and all the eensy-weensy mouse-sized things, like the bed for the mouse) and the fun-filled annoyance-exhaustion of the boy as things spiral a bit out of control ;-p An adorable and super fun read!
Cute! One thing leads to another is this adorable childrens book. The story is catchy, the images fantastic. There a re a few challenging words that will test a child skill or they might need help with depending how young they are and what their reading level it. But overall, I think any child can love this book.
This is one of our favorite read aloud books right now with my 4 year old. The pictures are bright and cute. The story takes you on an adventure which eventually returns to right where it started with a line of what if questions which take you from a cookie...back to a cookie. Great books.
I know If You Give a Mouse a Cookie is considered a classic, but I wasn't all that enamored with it as a child, and I can't say that I am as an adult, either. There are a lot better picture books out there in terms of both illustrations and story that don't get nearly as much attention.
A book we read a while ago, it was satisfactory but a bit over the heads of my preschoolers. My 5 yr old liked it good enough, but there wasn't enough text to make this even vaguely educational. Still, it was an entertaining story with good illustrations.
A reread for me (and the kids I babysit), but it's still just as amazing as it was when I was a kid.
The mouse's daily routine reflects how some young children's routines are, and reflects another reason for why I love this book so much.
Eventually, the book comes back full circle to the mouse receiving another cookie.
This book is also good for those children who like animals and are interested in shorter readings.
One way this book can be used in the classroom is to teach students about making inferences, or at the Kindergarten level, educated guesses on what is going to happen throughout the book.
The grade level for this book is Kindergarten.
The reading lexile for this book is 660L.
2) Grade level, interest level, lexile (1 pt)This would be a great book for 1st and 2nd grade.3) Appropriate classroom use (subject area) (1 pt)This would be a great book to introduce during a month of different story book authors.
She has many different really good books with the same story line.4) Individual students who might benefit from reading (1 pt)Students who are struggling with neediness would be a great target for this book.5) Small group use (literature circles) (1 pt)This book would be great for a themed literature circles.
Since it is very easy to understand and engaging by its use of humor and bright illustrations, this is the perfect way to get students to begin thinking about difficult concepts in the most simplified way possible.Why this is a WOW Book: While this book seems nothing more than a fun children’s book, it is interesting to see how much of a deeper meaning it carries.
For example, I read an article online (http://www.ew.com/article/2015/11/20/...) that blames this book for the way millenials feel entilted because we grew up hearing a story about how if a mouse wants something than, there you go, it’s his.
She felt that she could relate to the story line, because she continually asked for items.
She thought that this book was quite funny and great for young children.PlotOne afternoon, a young boy encountered a mouse.
This predicament started when the mouse asked the young boy for a cookie.
The mouse seemed content for a few moments before he realized that he needed something to accompany his current item.The mouse continued by asking for some milk.
The boy thought that the mouse was content while napping but was then startled when the mouse woke up and asked for another cookie.
She thought that this book could be read as a bedtime story.
Personal Response: I read the book If You Give a Mouse a Cookie to my younger sister.
She also said she always got hungry for cookies when she read the book.
I asked her what her favorite part was and she responded, “My favorite part was when the mouse got a cookie because I like cookies.” Plot: This book started out with a mouse and a boy.
Once the mouse received the cookie, the mouse asked for some milk.
The reader is left in suspense, because the reader doesn't know what the mouse will ask for next.Recommendation: I would recommend this book to boys and girls of the age of three through eight.
If you give a mouse a cookie is a great picture book to teach k-2 students about cause and effect.
The little boy gives him a cookie, so then the mouse needs milk.
If you give a mouse milk, he will need a cookie to go with it.
Right?I use this story, and other Laura Numeroff books, as a author study.
During our writing workshop, we use the elements of the story to create our own cause and effect stories with looping at the end.
We then published our Laura Numeroff inspired stories and created a class book.
If You Give a Mouse a Cookie is a very simple children's book.
It is about a young boy who has a pet mouse that keeps wanting more and more.
It starts off with the boy giving the mouse a cookie, and then the mouse wants milk to go with it.
After everything the boy gives the mouse, the mouse wants something to go with it.
All the he wants is the simple cookie, not all the fancy stuff he thought he wanted.This is a very good children's book that I think many kids are familiar with.
