https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35411685-how-to-stop-time
I guess I should straight off the bat tell you what happened when I finished reading "The Humans." And yes, I know this is supposed to be a review about "How to Stop Time." Bear with me.
Because she's one of the people I encouraged (forced/insisted/wrangled int0) reading "The Humans" and she also fell in love with the book, she came to my work and dropped off the newest novel last week.
Try. Think kind of shaky, breath a bit rapid and shallow, scared and excited, all at the same time.I (get this) PUT IT ASIDE for six days.
There's very little story or forward momentum beyond that.Tom spends the whole book wallowing in self-pity over having been alive so long and having to abide by the rules of the Albatross Society - a group for people like him.
And if you think it's going to be all sweet and romantic like The Time Traveler's Wife because the blurb is all about how he can't fall in love and how this is a "a love story across the ages"-- this is misleading.
What I said in my review of Jack Finney’s book Time and Again held true for me here: When I read a time travel story, I try not to dwell on how the character got to this other time and place.
To those who just don’t think they can accept the premise of the story I say the same thing I said about Finney’s book: Imagine you are in another time, in another place with people you don't yet know.
I would never call this ‘fiction nonsense’ ( cough cough)- like the last book I didn’t finished where I was pounded over the head by a guy, ( not really - haha - but a little), for writing a review- having only read 41%.
Usually I’m not a fan of time travels anyway- ( 11/23/63 was a one time exception- I was sure of it) - but then I read Diane Chamberlain’s new book, “The Dream Daughter”, and thought she crafted a fascinating novel where I was authentically stimulated by the challenge she presented.
Read OTHER reviews- many readers LOVE this book!!!!Rating for approx 41%.
The shadowy head of the society, Hendrich, controls Tom and calls in favors to move him to place to place every eight years (since that is about the period of time before people notice he doesn't seem to grow any older).
And the one major rule Hendrich has impressed upon Tom for many years now?
But Hendrich will stop at nothing, will use everything and anyone to ensure his charges comply with his rules.This is a fascinating, beautiful, moving book about love, loss, loneliness, and adventure.
shifts between Tom's current life and the different persona he assumed throughout the years.
Review coming up in about 400 years
There comes a time when the only way to start living is to tell the truth.
To be who you are, even if it is dangerous.So, I'm breaking the rule of not sharing a quote on an ARC book.
You kind of have to know if you are going to read this one...do you like pretty flowery writing?
It's pretty full of that.
Tom is old.
Very old.
He just does not look it.
He has been alive for centuries.
No, he isn't one of those sparkly vampires.
He has a condition that causes him to age much slower than the normal
To be who you are, even if it is dangerous.So, I'm breaking the rule of not sharing a quote on an ARC book.
Tom is old.
Tom has challenges.He is taken under a secret 'society's' wing where he meets people with the same condition that he has.
He whines about these two things for most of the book..so get ready!And he has met several famous people.
(This took away from the story for me..as I had to roll my eyes a few times-but then I'm an old heifer.)I didn't hate this book but I sure did not love it.
You have to choose to live...Exceptional story, out-of-the-box subject: Tom Hazard has a dangerous secret. He may look like an ordinary 41-year old, but owing to a rare condition, he's been alive for centuries... Imagine, living in times of Shakespeare, Napoleon, up to today.... And try to be invisible, as people may be looking for you.... And whatever happens, don't fall in love. A story about love and making choices. I like this writer. Recommended!
3.5 An engaging story about a man who is 400 years old and will continue to live hundreds of years more.
Tom Hazard, a man now living in current times, but remembering his love who lived so long ago, and his daughter, who he has long been searching.
His daughter, who like him, is able to live a long time.
There are interesting forays back in time, historical happenings as Tom remembers.
My reception of this novel was mixed, it is entertaining and flows well, easy to read but the constant changing focus if the story kept me from engaging emotionally.
4 original and captivating stars to How to Stop Time! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ If you are looking for something a little different, this is it! I always shout from the rooftops when I find an original book! I’ve read nothing even remotely like How to Stop Time. Tom Hazard looks like he’s 41 years old, but he’s been alive for centuries due to a condition that causes him to age slowly. Luckily for Tom, he has a support group of people like him, and the number one rule of the group is that you cannot fall in love f
4 original and captivating stars to How to Stop Time!
Tom Hazard looks like he’s 41 years old, but he’s been alive for centuries due to a condition that causes him to age slowly.
Luckily for Tom, he has a support group of people like him, and the number one rule of the group is that you cannot fall in love for reasons one might expect.
We travel with Tom through four hundred years of his life, which at times felt on the long side.
Other times, I was captivated by what was happening and watching love unfold.
I love time travel and although this was not that really, it had the same effect and was just as pleasing.Tom Hazard has a condition which means he ages very slowly indeed and in this story he is well over four centuries old.
How to Stop Time alternates chapters from the present with others from his extensive past.
When I was reading the past I had to keep reminding myself he was living it at that time and not visiting it from the present.
It was intriguing.I was pleased that the present chapters and the past were equally interesting.
He is stricken with an unusual "condition".
His condition makes him an "alba" which means he could be in danger of being discovered (never aging).
We find out who Tom has loved, the tragedies he has endured, and the lessons we can learn about time.There is a mystery to unravel, some elements of fantasy as he meets famous people such as Shakespeare and others, a bit of a romantic element, and even a rather thrilling end!I enjoyed reading this unique book, but felt the alternating chapters of past and present took away from the flow (for me).
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!4.5 StarsIf you were to call him by name, you could call him Tom Hazard, but the truth is that over the years, he’s been known by many names, having to change his identity before the truth catches up with him, reveals him to be who he is.
There are more than a few famous names you will recognize as this story talks about the changes in time and place throughout his life.
There is an organization that looks over, looks out for these people, anagerians, those whose internal “clocks” have a much different timeline than your average person.
Tom is over 400 years old but looks to be in his 40s.
He can expect to live close to another 600 years.
It’s a rare condition, but there are others like Tom.For a culture that is obsessed with anti-aging products and plastic surgery, this sounds like a dream come true.
Music simply uncovers what is there, makes you feel emotions that you didn’t necessarily know you had inside you, and runs around waking them all up.” "Just as it only takes a moment to die, it only takes a moment to live.
These are the questions this book attempts to answer, all from the point of view of Tom Hazard.Tom, our main character in this journey, has lived for over 400 years.
He is a member of the Albatross society, a society of men and women like him whose main rule is to live in anonymity and to not fall in love.
The author of this book (Matt Haig) wrote one of my top favorite books (The Humans), I mean, top five all-time-favorite book, and because of it I read all the books he publishes.
Overall, I liked the book but did not love it as much as The Humans.
Barely 3 stars.I feel like I’m in a bit of a fiction reading slump.
Tom is one of few people in the world who ages at a far slower pace than most humans.
The story moves back and forth in time, and plays around with the existential consequences of Tom’s anomalous condition.
But it really felt like a great thought experiment devolved into silliness.As I say, I feel like I’m in a reading a fiction reading slump, but I think I’ve been picking the wrong books for me.
Lots of people are liking this one.
This means that he now looks like a man in his 40s.He has lived through many periods in history, met a lot of famous people from the past, and seen plenty of inventions brought to life.There is a secret organisation set up to protect the people like Tom, called ‘The Albatross Society’, run by a man who is very, very old, Hendrich.
Two very different things.The book is very touching, and you can’t help but feel for Tom, a man who may have been alive for many years but one who can’t live a normal life.
It was this line in Gail's review that was the clincher.”I can only liken this to the feeling one gets after a long, hot and dry summer spell which is broken by a torrential downpour of rain.
How do you stop the ghosts of all the other nows from getting in?
Ho, in short, do you live?”The Sinker - I am a huge fan of time travel and though How To Stop Time is not that genre, its nod to time in main character, Tom Hazard’s rare condition of a longevity we can only imagine, is alluring.
Though Tom does not travel to the past or future, we do as his story spans more than 400 hundred years.
If there's one thing I can't stand about bad writing, it's the fact that there is no story, rather a pretence of a story, a thin wispy veil that acts as a vehicle for the author's abundant sentimentalities.
That's what you get when the author is telling the story I suppose, and not the narrator.
I'm sorry, I don't want to sound like a hater, but when writing a novel, you make sure you leave yourself out of it (!).
This is what this novel feels like.
but I still liked it a lot.I’ve listed a few quotes below but I’m not sure how effective they’ll be out of context:‘The key to happiness is finding the lie that suits you best’‘All you can do with the past is carry it around, feeling it’s weight slowly increase, praying it never crushes you completely.’‘As if the world is never big enough to hide in’‘Change is what life is.
Not immortal but feeling that way, he is part of history and an observer of it – we see him over time, at his best and his worst, this is a love story with a touch of mystery and is hugely gripping from the very first page until the tear inducing poignant finale.I won’t give away much, this is one of those books that everyone will come to in their own way and will take from it different things – but Matt Haig manages to bring history alive on the page here through Tom and what he experiences, it almost feels as if you are living it with him.
His life is controlled by The Albatross Society, an organization for people with Tom's disorder, anageria, which causes a person to age at a very slow rate, leading to lives that can last for a millennia.
The head of the society is Heindrich, a controlling and manipulative man who has set out a series of rules for himself and the other Albas to follow; never fall in love or get attached to regular humans, move every eight years and do whatever Heindrich tells you to do or else.
He ages slowly, ever so slowly, and by the time we meet him, he is over four hundred years old.
The hurt we feel for Tom who is eventually pursued by a nine hundred year old bad guy, (who incidentally just wants what is best for the Albatrosses as they call themselves).
Most of all Tom and the albatrosses must never fall in love and they need to keep their secret or people will die, those people being us, the Mayflies.Tom and Mr Haig take us on a historical adventure meeting and seeing some notables throughout the centuries that Tom has lived.
How to Stop Time is a book that is going to be talked about for a while.
It made headlines when Benedict Cumberbatch signed on to star in the movie adaptation before the book had even been released.After reading the description and seeing it virtually everywhere, of course I had to see what all the fuss was about.Tom is old.
I can see why the film rights were snatched up before the book hit the shelves!How to Stop Time is type of book that stays with you days after you've finished reading it.Thanks to Canongate Books for a copy through NetGalley.Book Links: Book Depository | Amazon US | Amazon Canada | Amazon UK
4.5 starsHow to Stop Time is a thought-provoking read.
As his quest for a normal life unfolds, we are taken back and forth in time to learn about the many places and people Tom has experienced over his long and storied life.
He also observes that humans are bound to repeat the mistakes of the past, a sentiment that addresses what the United States is experiencing right now.
And what starts as a doubt in a mind can swiftly become an act in the world.” His recognition that humans are bound to repeat the mistakes of the past is a sobering and timely statement.
The lifetime of humans, the growth and changes that take place with age, the struggles and joys of the different phases we enter during our life time, as well as the patterns in history for the last couple hundred years.I enjoyed this for its’ calmness, the reflections and the quotes or ideas pondered in the novel.
This may be the perfect read for me, as I am middle aged, and have experienced loss and joys and a few phases of life, but also because I love history.
It culminates to the sweet surrender of life and time itself.This is not a fast paced, action packed read.
It felt as if Haig took the history book out and then picked some events and some cool historical figures, just to spice things up a little.
Re-acquainting myself with some historical events and meeting important historical figures via Tom Hazard - should have been interesting.
Oh, and despite meeting so many important people in different parts of the world, he just couldn't find his daughter, who'd inherited his condition - which was why he still wanted to keep living.The premise was good, the execution though was uninspired and a bit too much like a readers digest of historic events and who's who of historical figures.
A meditation on mortality and the significance of time, all the while providing precious moments in the 400-year history of one man, once a lute player at Shakespeare’s Globe Theatre and currently teaching history, one that he lived.To talk about memories is to live them a little.While not a time travel story per se, it does take us from the gritty streets of Elizabethan London to Scott Fitzgerald’s Paris.
Beyond all of the quotes I noted--and this book looked like a porcupine with all of my darts--these words from his acknowledgements say all that I could about this author and this novel…Thank you for reading this book.
Fiction that goes beyond the story, thank you, Matt Haig!
Disappointing.....
Very endearing, I loved it. The story was unique and it had a very fairytale like style. I listened to the audio version of this book and the narrator was fantastic, every character had a different voice.
