https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17303.Piercing_the_Darkness
Even though I gave 5 stars to This Present Darkness, I love Piercing The Darkness more.
I love the hide-and-seek-cat-and-mouse mystery that shrouds Roe’s character, and I feel strongly attached to her in a very emotional way.
I especially loved that the story has a big portion on legal issues on it, (plus some courtroom drama) and more particularly, one major character was a Christian lawyer.
This is what really made the story very close to my heart.For the complete review, you may go to It's A Wonderful Bookworld.
Angels are trying to protect her while demons from her past is trying to destroy her.This is one amazing book of spiritual warfare I would recommend to any Christian reader.
Frank Peretti did an amazing job in showing the reader a glimpse of the spiritual warfare going on and the importance we as Christians play.
The story was gripping and the reading easy to follow, as well as to flow the story where it goes from the human story, to the dialect and story of the Angels and demons.I was reminded once again of the authority we have in Christ and that we need to step up and walk in this authority.
This book was even better than the first one. We need reminders about those evil spirits all around us every day. The same supernatural characters also appeared in this book, and the plot was even more exciting than #1.
We must be prepared to face our demons25 December 2012 The main reason that I did not like this book was because it was shoved down my throat by a fundamentalist Christian when I was twenty years old and living in a halfway house because I had pretty much stuffed up my life. To be honest, I had been charged with a number of criminal offences, stolen about $1000.00 (in 1990s money) off of my parents, and was hanging around with a guy that was not only a bad influence, but also a bad smell. Before
We must be prepared to face our demons25 December 2012	The main reason that I did not like this book was because it was shoved down my throat by a fundamentalist Christian when I was twenty years old and living in a halfway house because I had pretty much stuffed up my life.
A number of Christians that I know don't like this book because it is very works based: the main character has to fight and overcome the demon herself when in reality it is through God that we are able to overcome our demons.
A supernatural, page turner. Opens your eyes to the real unseen world. Just because you can't see something doesn't mean it isn't there.An absolute must read.
79th book read in 2014.Number 158 out of 422 on my all time book list.Follow the link below to see my video review:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-feZ6...
Our heroes, Marshall Hogan and Bernice Krueger, make their way back onto the scene, with Marshall's wife Kate playing a more active role than in Ashton.I love how Peretti starts the story out with tons of action and confusion but then slowly brings some order out of it without telling all.
Although we, as readers, are able to see from many different characters' perspectives, including the angels and demons, Peretti ably conceals the tortuous route that the story takes us through.
Peretti does not fail his readers.I am a Frank E.
Enjoyed this book which I listened to via audio which was fantastic. It felt like I was watching a movie without the screen. I liked it a bit more than the first. Beautiful story. Like I said with the first, there is more truth in this book than you realize. Got me praying.
This sequel was just as exciting as the first book and deals with a subject that is becoming an increasing problem and that is the encroachment of anti Christian bias in our schools.
The quasi-religious activities such as using a mantra or acquiring a spirit guide are being practiced in our public schools and are not benign exercises in values clarification.
In areas where there are no Christian schools, or other alternatives, people are turning more and more to homeschooling.The small church school in this story is being attacked by an ACLU type organization.
The organization wants to set a precedent for interfering with religious schools.
He creates a situation in which the angels of heaven do actual battle with the demons of hell in a bid to help a group of people in a small town overcome the biggest personal and legal battles of their lives.
Piercing the Darkness follows the same heavenly warriors from the book This Present Darkness as they now battle demons for the life of Sally after a failed murder attempt on her life.
They also battle for the emotional, spiritual, and personal well being of a small Christian school principal who suddenly finds himself battling a lawsuit against his school, while at the same time trying to regain his children from CPS, who have taken them from him, for seemingly no reason at all.
This book is the one that first made me want to be a writer. One of my all time faves. I have read it multiple times, and that says something for me. A classic!
That the ACLU discriminates against Christians, and is directly involved in a satanic plot to undermine Christianity; 2) that those who practice relaxation practices, like meditation and transcendental meditation, are directed by satanic spirit guides; 3) that people who report pastors, and Christian schools, to Child Protection Services for whacking children with paddles and wooden spoons are also involved in a satanic conspiracy against the church.
This is a scientific fact, and has nothing to do with the worship of demons, or lucifer.As for the third claim, if I knew of any church, Christian school, or parent that was smacking children's backsides with wooden paddles, spoons, belts etc.....I would certainly consider reporting them to Child Protection Services.
This is a terrific sequel to THIS PRESENT DARKNESS. This one centers around the real problem we have in the USA which is demonic practice sneaking into our schools. Very well-done as usual and I want to read it again!
wow....This is one amazing book of spiritual warfare I would recommend to any Christian reader. Beautiful book written by Frank Peretti.
This book made me realize the really importance of the prayer. I recommend this book for eveyone, is very good. Loved i!
Loved reading this book back in high school. Opened my eyes to possibilities in the spiritual realm that I had not seen/considered before. Very cool.
Major blog review coming later. I'm going to tie it in with Texe Marrs' book on cults.
My Thoughts: I read this book several years ago and wanted to revisit it. This time I chose the audio version, read by Frank Peretti. The music, the reading - incredible. My heart beat faster as tension rose. I loved the story then, I like it even more now.There is a kingdom we can't see. Peretti revealed that hidden realm in a way that made it alive. My faith increased, my love for the Bible deepened. I'll probably listen to this book again and again. It's that good.
If you believe that angels are literally in the hen house and demons are lurking behind every sagging fence, this book is for you. The book is entertaining as the battle in the heavens reaches fever pitch, but it also has a sobering message about legal maneuvering that can take place on the earth.
Even though this book is listed under Fiction... I believe that it definitely has some truth to it... If you have a relationship with Christ and you want to know something about the spiritual realm this book will definitely enlighten you!
Changed my perception of the world and life in general, way back in the 90's
Lucy removed her from the public school system because of behavior issues.
The case centers around a spanking and a failed attempt to cast out a demon.As Harris and his friends try to figure out the hows and whys of the case, they learn of a dangerous curriculum the public school is using; a curriculum that encourages children to meet and befriend spirit guides as they relax and meditate.My thoughts: Piercing the Darkness is a compelling mystery/thriller.
A lot of the cases we win today came about because of public opinion that was molded years ago.
Peretti's early works are classics. Read them as fiction, not as sources of spiritual truth or theology. The truth that is in them is that prayer is a vital matter. Aside from that, there's a lot to be desired. But if you read them as stories, as works of fiction rather than theology books, they are quite enjoyable. Solid plot, believable and relatable characters, and the suspense builds to an explosive conclusion.
The Darkness series, of which this is the second and final volume, revolutionized Christian literature as we know it. Without it, there would be no Beverly Lewis Amish novels, no "end times" fiction, nor pretty much popular Christian literature as it is today. I hadn't read any parts of this series in a while, but I devoured it in one sitting, despite its length. I'm not sure that spiritual warfare is exactly as this book describes, but it still made for an entertaining read.
Great read....love this book. Haven't read it in about 15 years....it's more relavant today!
I think I enjoyed this book even more than This Present Darkness. It made me give more thought to what is going on in the spiritual realm. I would read it again in a heartbeat.
Read when I was very young, naive and hopeful.......and then I grew up.This is not the kind of book I'd like to read again, but enjoyed it at the time for its "explanation" / "insight" / at least its imaginary way of creating a Spiritual Realm we humans may choose to relate to.
It’s not possible to understand the Spiritual Realm fully because our minds are way too small to comprehend something that does not fit into anything logical to grasp the majesty of what lies beyond, but reading the book might bring some solace to our way of thinking.
Although I am not a Christian, I did find this to be quite a good read and was given to me (with This Present Darkness) while I was going through a particularly difficult period in my life.
You don't need to have read the first book to enjoy this one although there are references in there.Plot ***Spoilers***It follows the journey of Sally Beth Roe as she tries to escape her past and slowly overcomes her constant struggle to discern the Truth.Told in this story is the town of Bacon's Corner, and a resident named Tom Harris.
Piercing the Darkness was recommended to me by a fellow Christian who suggested that I read Mr. Peretti’s books.Most of the negative reviews I’ve seen seem to revolve around the writer’s Christian outlook and the fantastic stories of demons and Angels doing battle in an unseen realm.
The author seemed to be attempting to use every “boogeyman” that has the Christian Church has encountered including the police, the federal courts, satanists, witches, demons and the public school system but it is, in my humble opinion, not very well done.The earthly story could have been made far more simple and reasonable while still demonstrating that there is a battle behind the scenes between good and evil, God and satan.Having said this I will give Mr. Peretti’s books another try.
More like 4.5 stars, but because I was harsh with the first part, I'd be generous with the rating of the second part. Multi-layered, gripping story of spiritual warfare, in which author Frank Peretti mixes political thriller and epic battles between angels and demons with strong human story of forgiveness and redemption. I guess that Peretti will be considered to be too conservative for many readers, but really, after the onslaught of ultra liberal books in recent years, his "Darkness" novels seem like the perfect antidote.
