https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5048174-2br02b
2BRO2B:  Where utopia and dystopia coalesce.
In my view, the reality of such a situation would be that there would always be a contentious third world and there would always be aggressive young men and there will always be an arms industry and small wars will be encouraged.I do see that medical cures and ways of extending life, perhaps more or less indefinitely, might be developed, but I don't see how you are going to breed pacificsm and generosity into people.
I don't see that as being influenced to change completely by any technology that might be developed.Perhaps when it was written, this was cutting-edge dystopian sci-fi, but now it has no lustre, there is nothing in it that stands out as unique to this story.
The painter, two hundred years old, displays a callousness that indicates his contempt not just for the society in which he lives, but for the society which will follow him should he choose to commit suicide: "...express[ing] with an obscenity his lack of concern for the tribulations of his survivors."In the aftermath of the means the father uses to resolve his state-imposed moral and emotional quandary, the painter "...ponder[s] the mournful puzzle of life demanding to be born and...fruitful...to multiply and to live as long as possible...on a very small planet that would have to last forever.
Only Kurt Vonnegut, or a very good facsimile could come up with the Federal Bureau of Termination. That is a treasured institution in 2BR02B by Kurt Vonnegut, his scathing satire on population control. Humans are living to be fantastically healthy and long lived, and enjoying life on a rich, bountiful … and roomy Earth thanks to some extreme measures. A fun read, but like most of Vonnegut’s work, one that leaves the reader thinking.
A brutally effective allegory.
A dark humor short story that offers some thinking about a utopia.
In Vonnegut's fictional future they have found a cure for aging. So naturally the government has to institute a program called "population control". Will never happen you say. Maybe not finding a cure for aging, but medical advancement will certainly extend lifespan. Wars, epidemics, accidents, all will curb growth. Gun violence and starvation deaths will be on the increase in the future if societal trends don't change. Vonnegut wasn't interested in how we get there, but how we react when we do. His lack of faith in our moral compass is obvious.
I've never been a big fan of Vonnegut, though I've tried.
I had mixed feelings about this one, as well.
Aging has been "cured" and people can live youthfully indefinitely - but the necessary corollary is that births must be limited.
Voluntary euthanasia is encouraged.In his trademark darkly humorous style, Vonnegut portrays this situation as grotesque and inhumane.
I actually disagree, so I couldn't really wholeheartedly embrace the story.(view spoiler)[It seems unlikely that in a situation where medical advances can control aging; that we could not also control conception - "unexpected" triplets about to be born just wouldn't be a situation.
(hide spoiler)]
This is an dystopian thinker of short story that takes all of about 15 minutes to read, even if you’re slow like me. Writing more than a couple sentences would almost surely spoil it, so I’ll say almost nothing beyond this: future, population control & ethical suicide studios. Does that peak your interest or make you cringe? For me it was both.
unfair.Kurt Vonnegut is perhaps the most under-rated author of our literary history.
This tiny short story (only 12 pages) is filled with so much satire, angst and anger that one tends to forget it is sci-fi.
Although, this is the first story where the SF aspect is so well forgotten as the story develops, that even those repelled by SF would love this.The title 2 B R 0 T B is an acronym for the eternal conflict in humanity - To Be Or Not To Be (RIP Shakespeare) - and this is exactly the theme of the story, in a world where aging is stopped, births and deaths are controlled to keep the population stagnant.
Exceptional stories, like this one, leave us frustrated, angry and disturbed, And Vonnegut does that in exactly 12 pages.
Man, this was bleak.
Because people are living much longer and the planet's resources are depleted, the government keeps the US population at 40 million.
The Federal Bureau of Termination provides several ways for people to die if they'd like to give up their life for a newborn.
One man is at the hospital waiting for his wife to give birth to triplets, but he doesn't have enough volunteers to die so he'll have to make a choice.
Like I said, totally bleak.Read it here.Or get it for free on Kindle here.
56 years ago this was edgy stuff, now it's a big ol' marshmallow fluff and creamy peanut butter on bargain white bread sammy.There's a name for those things. Anyone remember what it is? Anyway. Unless you're a Vonnegutterian and completist, this needn't take up your RAM or induce your REM.
While the concept was interesting, this story is proof that concept in and of itself is simply not enough to sustain a story, even one as short as this.
The tension that would've made it interesting was nonexistent, and the way Vonnegut shamelessly info-dumped via stilted dialogue was positively criminal.
It feels like a story, like a fiction, it feels contrived, and so divorced from logic that it's impossible for me to entertain the question, "What if this ever became a reality?"On a more positive note, it reminded me that I really need to finish  Hamlet.Read it here.
Vonnegut writes a story of a Utopian society where there is no poverty or disease, where ageing and even death have been vanquished.
2BR02B, - to be or not to be - the hotline number for the Federal Bureau of Termination.This was excellent.
Like all good short stories, this one had the capacity to expand to a full book, and one that I would have loved to read.
If you're already a Vonnegut fan, you should definitely read this.
If you're looking to start somewhere with this prolific author, this is an excellent place to do so.
To be or not to be. The dystopia of the utopia!Watch an adaptation here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RgaID...
A dark and witty satire on population control. Loved the sarcasm in the dialogue.
Quick and dirty reading notes and (i)relevant thoughts ✐ It's quite amusing that not earlier than yesterday, I wrote a "review" for First Meetings in Ender's Universe, a collection of short stories that addresses the exact opposite topic from 2BR02B (link to review). In there, Orson Scott Card advocates people's right to have as many children as they desire, while in 2BR02B, for a newborn to be allowed to live, one of the existing people has to die. And of course, as any extreme, none of them i
In there, Orson Scott Card advocates people's right to have as many children as they desire, while in 2BR02B, for a newborn to be allowed to live, one of the existing people has to die.
And of course, as any extreme, none of them is good and/or just.✐ In 2BR02B, the world has reached to a level where people don't age, don't sicken, and naturally die only from accidents.
Someone has to volunteer to die.
And here comes the Federal Bureau of Termination, the official organization for assisted suicide.✐ The point Mr. Vonnegut makes is the impossibility of humans' boundless desires, the fact that we always want more than is good/correct/sustainable.
Man, this one really made me think.
Is this something that our planet will come to?
With the possible upcoming enhanced identification laws, will we be forced into a future of a controlled population?
I've read several articles about how the latest generation to go into adulthood may never have to die like those in this story.
Will they also have to make a choice like the father did?
I honestly wouldn't want to have to ask or pick who has to die in order for another to live.Anyways, I really enjoyed this story.
It'll probably be rolling around in my head for a while.
My first read by Vonnegut. Vonnegut presents a dark vision of the future. This is a short story about population control and the dilemma that a father of newborn have to face with.
I am my father's book adviser and while he was waiting for me to finish The Man in the High Castle I recommended The Cat Cradle to him, with the disclaimer that it is a bit strange and he might not like it.
While talking to my father about Cat Cradle I got the sudden urge to open the first Vonnegut book I could find and start reading.
As I have too many books on my to read shelf, I settled for a compromise, 2BR02B.
It might be a good way for people to get a sense of Vonnegut's style.
القصة التي كتبها المرحوم توفيق الحكيم (من سنة مليون) في مجموعة أرني الله، فيها قصة شبيهة بهذه لكن بشكل أعمق وأذكى وأكثر فلسفة ووقعاً
But this little gem deserves a mention, no matter how brief.Imagine a world where the human lifespan has become indefinite thanks to the advancements of science and healthcare.
2BR02B takes place in a Chicago hospital where we are introduced to the very means that are being executed to control the population.
However, while small in size, the message delivered hits with an impact and takes the reader on a brief yet terrifying journey into the what if.
This story challenges us not only to question the possible horrors of government regulation and control, but of medical advancement gone too far.
4.0 stars. Dark, satirical look at a future United States where people can now live indefinitely and the population is kept at a constant forty million. This population (without natural death) is achieved through a combination of infanticide and government-assisted suicide. For someone to be born, someone else must die.
Oh, this one was good! It's so short that it literally takes 10 minutes to read and it's still very strong and capturing. And the title!!! Love it! <3
The title alludes to Shakespeare's Hamlet, for the 'zero' in 2BR02b is referred to in Vonnegut's short story as 'not'.
Anyone who is a Shakespeare enthusiast, or well, really anyone who has gone through the public school system, knows that in Prince Hamlet's soliloquy he spoke that famous line: "to be or not to be?" Hamlet then goes on a long-winded speech all about how annoying life is, how tempting death is, the inevitability of our mortality, and suicide.
The latter being another common theme in 2BR02B.
We all know Vonnegut has his morbid moments and Shakespeare did, too.

A short Dystopian story about the implications of population control. This reminded me of the type of material you would see as an episode of The Twilight Zone or something similar. It was enjoyable, even though it wasn't groundbreaking.
For something so short, it does a great job when it comes to delivering its message. It leaves you thinking for much, much longer than the five minutes it takes to read it, though I admit that the subject is not something I like to think about very often. Gloomy? Yes, but very effective.
Vonnegut has a real talent at taking a utopia & depressing the hell out of me. Good & short, though.
What an awesome concept. What a vivid and clear view of the potential future. What I like the most about Vonneguts work so far is his style and language. No paraphernalia. No tiresome descriptions. You can imagine the characters however you like, except when their dress code or other physical characteristic matter to the plot or character building. The whole story takes place in one room. And the thought of leaving the room and facing the futuristic reality outside that room, that hospital scars
What an awesome concept.
What a vivid and clear view of the potential future.
What I like the most about Vonnegut´s work so far is his style and language.
No paraphernalia.
No tiresome descriptions.
You can imagine the characters however you like, except when their dress code or other physical characteristic matter to the plot or character building.
The whole story takes place in one room.
Because, the utopia it defines rests in the moral implications that would never allow me to enjoy it.
I loved this story.
I really enjoy and actually rejoice in Vonnegut´s simple writing style.
