https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1558473.Benjamin_Franklin
♥ At one time he was considered the most famous man in the world♥ His was a curious man: electricity, Gulf stream, Scottish tunes, women's make up♥ He loved children; he loved big families; BF's friends' children became BF's friends♥ He shared a bed with John Adams when the inn was full♥ He was the reason France loaned millions to America♥ He was once a slave-owner, but ended his days as an abolitionist♥ He is the epitome of an autodidact, a life-long learner♥ The short list of people he personally knew: Cotton Mather, George Whitefield, King George III, Adam Smith, King Louis XVI, Edmund Burke, William Pitt, William WilberforceI don't think I've ever read an index of a book before, but I read this one as a review.
I'm a fast reader, and this book is the only book ever to make me want to slow my reading and savor the author's words. Profound sentences I would read over and over again. It's a huge undertaking, to be sure, but worth every moment to read about about on of the Greatest Americans.
Franklin was a wonderful man and lived a tremendously interesting and pivotal life.
He is one of the founding fathers, so the country's birth is woven into his own life story.
He led an exemplary life, and I grew so attached to him during the telling that I was moved to tears at the moment of his death.
His story reminded me of Alfred Sloan because both were intimately involved in the blossoming of a trade (print-Franklin) or an industry (automobiles-Sloan); and he reminded me of Samuel Johnson because he was so wise and literary.
This very detailed work must surely include at least one excerpt from every documented written word that Franklin ever composed.
The in-congruencies between Franklin's own autobiography and Van Doran's biography are numerous and sometimes humorous.
Written in his mid-eighties, Franklin shares in his autobiography that one of the secrets to his success lies in his ability to utilize time, insisting that he never squandered his evenings away drinking ale in pubs.
Carl Van Doran manages to find a long list of hugely entertaining beer drinking songs composed and disseminated to friends by the young Benjamin Franklin himself!
This book is an absolute masterpiece.
One of the best biographies I have ever read about anyone.
It is a very long book, but for good reason.
I learned so much about this amazing man, and came to love him dearly, as so many have done before me, because of every wonderful page of writing.
I can't imagine how much work writing this incredible volume had to have taken, and how much research and painstaking digging into every facet of Franklin's being, and I can't praise Carl Van Doren enough.
Everyone who loves our country, everyone who loves history, or who just "thinks" they know and love Franklin should read this incredible book!
A really nice biography which uses lots of contemporary primary sources (like diary excerpts) as opposed to only citing the usual sources like Franklin's autobiography written much later in his life, etc.
I am fascinated by the life and times of Benjamin Franklin, he was born in 1706 and left Boston in 1722 to establish himself in Philadelphia.
Sometimes 2-3 pages are dedicated to the reading and analysis of some of Dr. Franklin's literary works, whether it is a letter to the Prime Minister of Britain or a casual private correspondence or a article published in a paper.
I was able to get the full view of Dr. Franklin's thoughts, views, and actions (as much as history of this period allows).
Very impressed by this book and story, I would recommend it to everyone.
This biography tells the story of the remarkable life of Benjamin Franklin by closely following textual sources—during his early life mostly hewing to his own writings before expanding, during the revolutionary years, to include his extensive correspondence.
In fact, I would venture that at least 50% of the text in this book is in the form of direct quotation, a much higher fraction than in any biography I have read before.
I had never appreciated before reading this just how long Franklin had spent in Europe: decades first as agent in England and then as ambassador to France.
A comprehensive look at the man. NOT easy to read or follow. Once I figured out that it wasn't organized chronologically, rather by subject-each chapter starting chronologically on a different topic (loosely) it was easier to follow, but not terribly exciting reading.
More work than fun. Franklin is an amazing man, but this is not an amazing book. Truman the man was not half as interesting as Franklin the man, but Truman the book (by McCullough) is twice as interesting as this book! If you're interested in Franklin, find a different book.
extensive biography of Franklin with quotes
Way too in depth. I don't need to know every breath he took. Also, not a good narrative.
Still my favorite biography of Franklin (other than the Autobiography). Very long, but generally a pleasure to read.
National Review recommendation.
