https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/699678.Jubal_Sackett
Jubal, virtually half native by upbringing and inclination, wants to see the great mountains that divide this new continent.
The tug of the distant frontier, the lure of the unknown, draws him ever westward and across the virgin plains of Kansas, Nebraska and Colorado.As Jubal crosses the continent it is impossible to ignore just how vast, how wild North America is.
America is a vast, unknown place.
And change, Jubal recognizes destroys the life that the natives had led.All of this wide, empty world is a backdrop to a love story.
He loves her, but is too noble to ask her to stay.
I am in no position, from my present day living-room, to comment on the likely authenticity of Jubal's experience, but what I can say is that Louis L'Amour makes me believe each and every one, and read "on the edge of my seat" at times.
All of it told in the matter-of-fact, story-telling prose that for me makes L'Amour's writing an endless delight.Jubal Sackett is a Western, and adventure and a romance, with also a touch of the paranormal.
On the whole I like Louis L'Amour and this is an early title(in the story's time line) of his most "iconic" fictional family the Sacketts.I've read several reviews of the L'Amour books here and one thing I've seen criticized in them (though not "real" often) is his treatment of the Native Americans in his stories.
If you've read the book you know that Jubal befriends a Buffalo that ends up following him around like a dog or something (this of course is Big Medicine with the Native Americans).
Which is odd, now I think on it.
I liked Jubal much more than Kin, and his story is nearly as strong.
I think I didn't connect very well with Jubal's goals, though, and his "dream" of going ever further west and seeing things no other white man had seen didn't really thrill me much.
Which is a shame, because Itchakomi is by far my favorite heroine so far, too (though I found the chapter from her perspective a bit jarring).Again, we see L'Amour's strong egalitarian streak and his willingness to attribute all the best virtues across racial divides, even while acknowledging the (sometimes vast) cultural differences that lead to inevitable conflict.Anyway, this little Sackett experiment is progressing well, and I look forward to reading the next, even if it is part of a honking big mashup of four books together...
The characters were likable (especially Jubal’s intelligent and capable Kickapoo buddy Keokotah, his mysterious and brave lady love Itchakomi and his lovable pet buffalo Paisano) and the plot moved along quickly with lots of adventure and conflict of the man vs.
nature and man vs.
man varieties.
This book will probably not blow your mind or have you rushing to recommend it to others, but it was a solid story through and through and had a likable and interesting protagonist, and that’s really all I want from a L’Amour novel.
He goes through horrendous experiences, not the least of which is being attacked by a starving mountain lion just after he has broken a leg, not to mention the rigors of having to spend the winter in a frozen mountain valley while facing three separate groups of enemies — and while taking on the responsibility of providing for the Natchez band and its beautiful princess.As it happens, this is only one of several novels about different numbers of the Sackett family, and I do not recall having read any of the others.
If nothing else, Jubal Sackett is a very careful, meticulous man who works hard for what he gets, and despite the fact that I felt that some of the conflict resolutions were a bit too easy or contrived, I never had the sense that they were overly fake, or undeserved.What really hooked me on this one is that it's a good "coming of age" tale.
Jubal Sackett is off hunting, exploring, and minding his own business.
Then he meets some Indians who ask him to go on a mission to find some of their tribesmen who went off exploring and ask them to come home.
Who asks that of strangers?But I liked the characters of Jubal and Ichtakomi.
It was my first book where we went through a winter with the characters and I thought it was good.
However, L'Amour doesn't talk about feelings as much as hunting.
We hear in detail about Jubal out hunting a deer, but we never hear from anyone going "deer, again?"
I can see why the men in my family enjoyed the writing of L'Amour. First one I've read. The history was interesting, with enough action, plot, romance, and moral characters that you cared about to keep reading. I found the spelling of the Indian names interesting, and the way the tribes made alliances, merged, learned about horses. Quick, fun read.
This is as nuanced as any literary classic I’ve read.
I guess because I grew up seeing his books in gas stations and supermarkets, and he was something of a mascot for the genre my dad fetishized.
It was hard for me to relate.Joke’s on me, because this was a gorgeous read.
Jubal’s relationship with Itchakomi, the Natchee princess who drives the main plotline, is not at all what I would expect from a western.
Jubal reveres the Natchee and Kickapoo ways of life, but he doesn’t appropriate them.
My dad is over the moon that I’m enjoying these.
While all of L'Amour's novels are good, not all are great. This isn't great. When L'Amour is actually telling the story, it's quite fine. But when he "preaches" it kills the pace. Remember that scene in Pocahontas where the Indian girl starts singing about the harmony of nature? Jubal and Komi (Indian girl) have a philosophical discourse on the nature of Change that goes on for pages. Seriously, they do.Aside from that, a good read.
Such adventure in a clean, frontier story about a man setting out to explore the West when just native Americans inhabited the land. He finds much, much more than the West/he finds ripple to help and friendships. He finds love and he finds himself. Plus he leaves everyplace and everyone better for touching shoulders with him. Now to read more LAmour books!
As a wee little lass I remember my dad and big brother constantly reading Louis L'Amour.
But when I told them I was reading Jubal Sackett, they both gave a sweet sigh of approval.
But it has everything a great adventure should have - a tough wilderness journey, a relentless enemy, a damsel in distress, a love story (involving the damsel in distress), and of course the friendship between these two men from very different cultures.
And the best part - I did feel bonded to my dad and brother after reading this.

It probably has something to do with the Barnabas books being largely set in England--a country L'Amour wasn't nearly so good at portraying.There isn't much plot in JUBAL SACKETT.
I kid you not.L'Amour does a great job of illustrating the kind of fortitude it took to survive in the American wilderness back when the USA was still the "New World." In that respect, the book reminded me a little of the movie THE REVENANT.
Great descriptions of the country, though--the kind of stuff that makes me want to rush out and go camping.But I really could've done without that woolly mammoth.
It is the longest book in the Sackett series and I felt like L'Amour could have edited it down a bit.
He also wrapped the book up in his typical rushed ending fashion by throwing in a mammoth (that's right-mammoth mastodon!) fight/attack seen in the last few pages.I did like Jubal's character and his wanderlust for adventures in the far mountains, just like his late father, Barnabus Sackett.
I have to say that I kept expecting the other Sacketts to follow the trail markers that Jubal left and come to his rescue a few times, but it never happened.Lots of adventure, fighting, and discovery.
My aunt found this book at an airport and gave it to me.
but this book.
This book.I've read it more times that should be allowed to.
It's one of my default fall-to book.
I just grab it if there's a prospect of me getting stuck in a waiting room and I proceed to devour it every time (and yes, I may have developed a crush on Jubal Sackett along the way).The plot is just stuff happening and some of it is not even correctly or fully explained and, sure, I'm not familiar at all with North American history or have more western books or authors to compare it with, but hell, any book that is capable of engrossing me more than once is top notch in my list.
My mom read this book to us kids when we were small.
We were poor.
We could have had a TV but Mom and Dad believed it would not be good for us.
She would pop huge bowls of popcorn and make lemonade and sweet tea and we would listen for hours.
We would groan in dispair every time she would come to the end of a chapter with a cliff-hanger ending and say, "Okay, it's bedtime".
We would beg for just one more chapter!!!
Good times!
I still love this story nearly 30 years later.
*spoilers*this was my first louis l'amour book. i thought it was good and interesting to read about this time period of american history. my only complaint is that most of the book was jubal watching for enemies, "there was movement! it's an indian!" etc. that got kind of boring. also i was really intrigued by the mummies he found in the cave and the "find them" plot. then at the end, he totally leaves that plot hanging. that was a huge bummer. oh well. but i enjoyed reading it. not sure if i'll read more of the sackett's...we'll see.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book. There is lots of action in every chapter as Juba Sackett sets out to be the first white man to reach the western part of the American frontier.  The first among many of his experiences was finding out he was being followed by an unknown person.  I especially like the detailed description of the scenery, and the people Jubal meets. There is never a dull moment which made this a very interesting read.
An intersting thought and an interesting historical viewpoints. A perpetuation of a little known thought that the woolymamoths survived thousands of years beyond the ice age and into near modern times in the Rocky Mountains. I assume L'Amour was drawing off of passed down stories of Native Americans. This is not a major plot line in the book, but an interesting side plot.
So I didn't have to actually read the end of some sentences as I could predict what they were going to say. When it comes down to it, you just have to pick up a Louis L'Amour every now and then. The best part of this book - the inscription - it was a Father's Day gift to my Dad in '84 or '86 (hardback even) from my sister when she only had two kids.
Finally! a little - just a little - boy/girl romance as Jubal falls in love with the exquisite Komi. And there's a bit of mystery involving "prehistoric" beasts and Welsh Indians, plus the usual Sackett wanderings and ponderings.I am shamelessly enjoying the Sackett saga. I will however leave the other dozen or so for a slightly later time.
I have read many Louis L'Amour books, but this is the one I remember the most. This was an exciting story that I read many years ago and enjoyed very much. Jubal Sackett left his family home to explore America. I can't remember exactly where he went, but he saw buffalo in great herds and saw Niagara Falls and (I think) the Grand Canyon.
"A cold wind blew off Hanging Dog Mountain and I held no fire, nor dared I strike so much as a spark that might betray my hiding place. Somewhere near, an enemy lurked, waiting."
Itchakomi was a very sought after Indian woman who was a “sun” of her people the climax of this story is when Jubal and Kapata finally are face to face and he decides to fight him, hand to hand combat.
The significance of this closing scene is that all Jubal’s battles are defeated even the one he never thought would occur and he can move on with his life and eventually conquer his goal of seeing the far lands he so desperately wants to see.The external conflicts of Jubal Sackett were; the wilderness, the Indians likes Kapata, the Spanish men and finding Itchakomi.
When Jubal receives the quest to find the Natchez princess Itchakomi, I thought that would be the focus of the story.
But then it seemed to be about dealing with the Spanish, and finding himself in the middle of a conflict between two Spanish soldiers.The book always had a next horizon, a next quest, a next goal.
I'm a bit of a survivalist fan - I cut my reader teeth on books like My Side of the Mountain and My Name is Disaster.
I am sorry that no other books were written about Jubal and his descendants.
I would like to know if they ever came back to America.This story picks up not long after Barnabas has died.
The beginning of this story is a little sad in that Jubal decides he is never going back to his family, that he will go to the mountains far to the west.
If you love the Sackett's then you need to read this story if you haven't.


