https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3230480-insatiability
I managed to read this only because I found a neglected copy in the university library when I was a student when I ought to have been looking for other things but in my defence it was recommended by the Rough guide to Poland and since at the time I was due to go to Torun for a Summer school it seemed a good idea to read a book which would be utterly unhelpful with regard to my then immediate future.The book has a great fin-de-siecle atmosphere, fantastical and comical by turns, set in an alternative semi-fantastical world.
This was art, not the sort of piano-thumping performed by blasé virtuosi or intellectual designers of new sensual thrills for hysterical females.And this is exactly the way Stanislaw Ignacy Witkiewicz writes – he turns his narration into a firework of schizoid images with which he literally extracts his readers’ entrails…In the first part of the novel, The Awakening the hero physiologically, sensually, mentally and metaphysically wakes up to the surrounding reality…The fact remained: everything is.
Peake’s vivid and visual writing had greatly charmed me in Titus Groan.
A look at Witkeiwicz’s wikipedia page informed me that he too, like Peake, had been a painter.
Peake had used his visual writing to draw striking scene descriptions and conveying the atmosphere of a setting.
Witkeiwicz uses his visual style to not only portray the scene, but, to some extent, while describing the thoughts of the characters as well.
Like the very first brush stroke on a blank canvas full of possibilities, you will see a tiny thought bubble germinate in a character’s mind.
Zip occupies an unsettling world, where Europe is under threat of Communist China's takeover, and Poland is embroiled in war with China.Overall, Insatiability is a difficult novel to write about, because it spans so many ideas that it would take another book to explain it all.
What happens when a young, freedom seeker comes into contact with decadent, artistic ideas, unfettered sexuality, and war?
Witkiewicz wrote Insatiability during the two world wars; the erosion of idealism and the political anxiety for the future are present.
was known to collect pictures of philosophers so he could study their physique as well as their thought).Abandoning his own aesthetic principles a good way into his artistic career, he turned to a mockery of commercial portraiture and wrote much of his prose stuff during this period.
If there was some way to streamline or compartmentalize these wayward strands of thought, it might make for a more interesting read, but Witkiewicz really went balls-to-the-wall to try and revamp the novel.
Un capolavoro semisconosciutoUn grande libro! L'educazione alla vita del giovane Genezyp Kapen in un mondo sull'orlo della catastrofe, tra comunisti cinesi che stanno conquistandolo e la resistenza di una Polonia dominata dal dittatore Kocmoluchowicz. Tutto il genio tormentato di Witkiewicz emerge in una scrittura potente ed in una straordinaria capacità immaginativa. Poco dopo non resterà che il suicidio di fronte alla Polonia invasa da due fronti.
Πήγα να το φάω εγώ και μ' έφαγε εκείνο! :p Ορεκτικό: https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2018/...και κυρίως: https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2018/...Υ.Γ. Read.... τουλάχιστον ένα μέρος του! Η βαθμολογία αντιστοιχεί μόνο για αυτό το μέρος.
Senza alcun tentativo di conferire coerenza all'insieme.Cominciamo con un dato di fatto: non c'è dubbio che sia un brutto libro.Verboso fino all'eccesso, un'uso degli aggettivi inutile e superfluo, indifendibile, ai limiti del e oltre il ridicolo, con ricorrenti voluttuoso, diabolico, infernale, perverso, sudicio, schifoso, coprofagico, terribile, tremendo, ributtante.Una cosa insopportabile.Metafore raccapriccianti, similitudini il cui termine di paragone viene spesso individuato nel corpo (preferibilmente nella “carogna”), o in una sua parte (o frattaglia), di un uomo o di un animale (in stato di decomposizione, of course).Romanzo a tesi, roman philosophique, parodia di romanzo?
I had also read about this book and gone to so much trouble trying to get hold of it so, you can imagine, I was really looking forward to reading this one...Oh dear!
Perhaps it's my age.I found this book difficult to get into but was prepared to give it a go...
A tantalising reference to war and communist invasion is thrown in but most of that first chapter, and indeed the one that follows (which is set in an aristocratic party) the words just begin to merge and I found contemplating my navel much more stimulating.
Pompous words and ideas just roll off in some sort of autonomous writing experiment...
This is 5/5. I would not remove any single word from this book. If you found yourself as a person truly disgusted by the present times with its power of mediocrity, if you truly crave for a man and not a society, and finally if you truly lust for some pure art, without any utilitarianism - yeah, just go for it.
If I could only take one book to an island...
{It even has my most obscure requirement – a direct reference/allusion to a work by Emile Zola}.Let me explain only some of the basic story to illustrate: Genezip is a 19 year old adolescent virgin embarking on life in aristocratic Poland; at a time when the West is Bolshevik, Russian is soon to fall to the invading Chinese horde and a new religion inspired by a mind expanding drug is growing in the country.
Insatiability, 530-page literary gush from the pen of Polish author Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz aka Witkacy, protein creator par excellence - novelist, playwright, photographer and painter (the paintings included here are Witkacy's).Insatiability, written in the late 1920s, where the fire of romanticism meets the dolor of decadence, reminding me, in turn, of Berlin Alexanderplatz by Alfred Döblin (published in the same year), Robert Musil's The Man Without Qualities (written mostly during the same period) and, for its sheer exuberance and personal pyrotechnics, Tropic of Cancer by Henry Miller. Full review to follow . . . .
A mad, mad book, but worth it.
This futuristic, expressionistic novel follows a young Pole, Genezip Kapen, as Western civilization collapses and a Chinese communist invasion takes place. Published in 1927, it's interesting and far ahead of its time. It got me interested in Witold Gombrowicz.
Full of schizophrenic wordplay, dense psychologic study, sex, cults, war and modernism's fascination with the subconscious, alienation and paranoia. A tricky but marvelous read; Witkiewicz crams the book with luscious insights. For fans of Joyce and Gomborowicz.
We are a human chain across vast gulfs of time and place, bearing whispers of liberty and equality, truth and justice, beauty and love, and a resistence to authority and power which would rob us of these things and of our humanity.
Let us cast against the night our poetry and music, our art and performance, and fill the all-consuming Saturnian emptiness of time and tyranny with wonder and with joy, with terror and rapture and life.
And I am sure I will return to that accursed book forever with the dedication of a crushed and powerlessly fascinated lover for the rest of my life, even under the futile threat of adultery, so well has it taught me the INSATIABILITY of the human condition.Let this confessionary review stand as a warning to young influential readers and as a testament to the undeniability of this novels strange powers which I've no doubt will work its fascinations on seekers of great and experimental literary works for centuries to come.
The fact that he manages to bring an ending around is almost beside the point; the insatiability he aims to bring to life is all made real by the readers suffering and tantalized pleasure at being dragged through the mudd, onto the cobblestone, and then back through the mudd again.
We learn to ache for suffering like Genezip does.
To use a black metal metaphor, I'd say it was akin to having to trek all the way to the Russian Steppe, waiting for the winter to thaw so you could dig up a copy of Weakling's Dead as Dreams, then walking home to your record player, where you learn upon finishing it finally, that the journey was at least as important as the actual experience of the art itself.
Only 224 read this masterpiece
AMAZING!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
This follows a young Pole who after an eastern communist invasion adapts to the fall of western civilisation in this dystopia.
One of the best; claustrophobic, intense, nightmarish work of fragmented modernism, paranoia, amoralism, insanity, etc.
Cualquiera que escuche el piano del compositor polaco Karol Szymanowski, contemporáneo y amigo del autor, entenderá un poco de que va la obra de Witkiewicz. Insaciabilidad es una novela con un ritmo muy lento y un lenguaje retorcido hasta las tuercas donde, componiendo la historia de un joven noble polaco en una fase de iniciación a la vida intelectual y sexual, encontramos una estructura no muy clara y consecuentemente una narrativa basada en excesivas divagaciones con raíces y referencias filosóficas.Con razón el autor es más conocido y reconocido por su trabajo como dramaturgo.
This was just way over the top for me; into the realm of incoherence much of the time making a long story seem never ending.I much prefer Gombrowicz's Cosmos (a masterpiece IMHO) as an example of Polish Modernism.
I too exist" in a state of cAtatonia. Another great polack novel
Witkacy's style is impressive, but 500 pages of that with barely existing plot just becomes tedious. Trimmed to half it's length it would be an absolutely brilliant novel.
more narcotics...!
