https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/62804.Sun_and_Steel
a peek inside the head of the finest japanese writer of the 20th century- hint: he is fucking nuts.
There is a canon of authors who are Metal.H.P. Lovecraft is one of 'em. Tolkein, another. (To name but a couple.)I would include Mishima in that almighty canon. Mishima was that kid growing up, but instead of being born in a place and time where Metal existed, he was born and raised in 20's Japan. Same impulse, though.Mishima would be from one of the more ecstatic genres of extreme Metal. He'd be Black Metal.
Mishima at his densest, finest, weirdest, most metaphysical.
He wrote this just before doing his Big Thing, and this does, really, feel like a manifesto of the sort popular among suicide bombers, Christian millenarians, militia leaders in the American Far West, and 4chan regulars turned school shooters.
That last bit is especially noteworthy.
If Mishima was alive today, giving his predilection for samurai ideology and whatnot, I can see his teenage self posting edgelord memes had he been alive today.But, he was a brilliant writer, and thankfully he had the patience to channel his violent distaste for modern society into a refined, lyrical essay balancing Greek classicism, German romanticism (hey there, Holderlin!), Japanese perspective, and a peculiarly homoerotic taste in imagery, rather than bukkake'ing a Twitter feed as his current political descendants are wont to do.
4.5 with the .5 being for "the blue sky was flecked with the semen-white of clouds"
Yukio Mishima, in his enigmatic work Sun and Steel, reveals his inner most contemplations of life, death, and beyond.
He uses the motif of the sun and steel as metaphors to represent enlightenment and body in a particularly personal way.
Mishima wanted to affirm life in death; he wanted to affirm existence through its negation; he wanted to affirm the awareness of the body by the blade of a sword.
He was a man of action and purpose.
With the death of Mishima Yukio has come the end of the long and glorious tradition of "Bushido," and the last samurai of Japan.
100 pages of uninterrupted, dense, metaphysical introspection about the relationship between words, abstractions, symbols, and the body. Completely humorless, Mishima is a nerdy writer that discovered fitness later in his life, compares airplanes to penises and clouds to sperm, and is absorbed by the concept of death, especially the "tragic" death that—in his opinion—can only be achieved by individuals with a chiseled hot bod. Insane and magnificent. I highlighted many passages but also had a hard time finishing it.
Wooaaaahhhhh! The power of words and the strength of the body, beauty, philosophy, budō, death, tragedy, and madness - love it. Free insight, though: Stay away from ideology, kids, it can distort the sight and numb the senses of even the best and bravest minds.
I really struggled to finish this book. I found it far too abstract and metaphysical for my liking. The only thing that I got out of this book was the fascinating glimpse that it gave of the mind of Yukio Mishima. It also has the virtue of being brief.
Anyone wanting to understand the philosophy and death of Mishima will want to read this book.
Esta novela corta más bien parece un diario sincero donde descubrir las motivaciones de Mishima.
Vemos aquí su búsqueda de la unidad cuerpo y mente, su insistencia en encontrar el equilibrio por imposible que parezca, así como su forma de acercarse a la felicidad o a la idea de belleza.Para mí ha sido una dosis de reflexiones brutal, una novela que bien parece un tratado filosófico influido por las artes marciales.
Me siento tan identificado con sus palabras, y me inspira tanto su forma de entender el mundo, que este libro de apenas 120 páginas ya es algo para mí imprescindible.
Literature, not to say life, offers no shortage of brilliant people dithering around in the most incoherent or radically destructive directions, but even still, you would be hard to find a more perfect encapsulation of genius put to the most startling stupid ends than Mishima’s grand self-statement.
Individual lines are beautifully written, certain thoughts are articulated with heart-aching grandeur, taken in sum its worship of unthinking physical force, that is to say violence, in a nation then recovering from apocalyptic destruction (and responsible for a great deal of the same), must be judged either indescribably stupid or nightmarishly vile.
"Erect-angled, the F104, a sharp silver phallus, pointedinto the sky. Solitary, spermatozoon-like, I was installedwithin. Soon, I should know how the spermatozoon feltat the instant of ejaculation."what the fuck mishima
Per resuscitare una lingua morta era necessaria un’educazione impartita dall’acciaio, per ribaltare il silenzio della morte nell’eloquenza della vita era essenziale l’aiuto dell’acciaio.""Nel cinismo, che giudica ridicola ogni forma di eroismo, è senza dubbio presente un complesso di inferiorità fisica.
Le parole di scherno verso l'eroe sono sempre pronunciate solo da chi non si reputa fisicamente adeguato a quel ruolo.
[…] Non ho mai udito parole di scherno verso l’eroismo pronunciate da un uomo che possedesse le qualità fisiche necessarie per poter essere un giorno chiamato eroe.
Sun and Steel a nonfiction work by Yukio Mishima is a difficult work to categorize.
I was compelled to read it in connection with research I am doing related to Paul Schrader’s film Mishima: A Life in Four Chapters.
He talks about the fusion of mind and body and analyzes several important life experiences that were physical sensations like running at dawn, parachuting, and flying in a jet fighter.
I’m not sure this book would be interesting or digestible for a novice in the work of Mishima, but for anyone who has knowledge of his remarkable life and body of work it is invaluable in the understanding of such a complicated artist.
Mishima fue un provocador y, a la vez, un hombre distinto a su tiempo.
Al abordar la lectura de este libro, no debe olvidarse que estamos frente a un ensayo, lo que implica entender las ideas que se proponen y, en su caso, estar de acuerdo o no.
Lo que está claro es que Mishima fue un hombre de acción y palabra: vivió y murió como él lo deseó.El sol y el acero es un libro iluminador, pero también triste, ya nos ayuda a comprender el complejo mundo interior de su autor.
An intricate balancing act against the fates, Mishima rushes full-force to conquer the impossible through introspection, observation, muscle stimulation, and ideology.
A long love letter to the conscience spirit-body we've abandoned in favor of lazy, inept, quiet mental (dis)satisfaction, Mishima's words, actions, and experiences continue to challenge us to live life at the edges like the brazen warriors we were meant to be.
His convictions continually beat against the chambers of our untold hearts, urging us ever on, a steady march toward death embraced by discipline, action, and an indomitable will to chase life into the everlasting arms of death itself.
Il corpo come traduzione dello spiritoFu ossessionante il modo in cui Mishima cercò di tradurre l’animo e la mente in un corpo esteriore, puramente fisico.Al crescere della consapevolezza forgiò il corpo fino al raggiungimento dell’equilibrio cercato, esso divenne traduzione fisica dello spirito."Ho sempre considerato estremamente ripugnanti sia i ventri prominenti, segno di pigrizia spirituale, sia i toraci scheletrici con le costole sporgenti, sintomo di un eccessivo sviluppo dello spirito […]. Mi pareva un atteggiamento indecentemente sfacciato, un esporre sul proprio corpo le vergogne dello spirito."
He's never going to get over that he wasn't the biggest, most popular boy in middle school, is he? But then, who does?I enjoyed the epilogue much more than the rest. I loved the Mishima / semen bit:"Erect-angled, the F104, a sharp silver phallus, pointed into the sky. Solitary, spermatozoon-like, I was installed within. Soon, I should know how the spermatozoon felt at the instant of ejaculation."
I have yet to come across a book that has distilled so much immensity in so few words. This is a peek inside my favorite authors mind- and what a mind it is. The principles of his prose, which one can detect through his novels, is fully expounded upon in this marvelous non-fiction work. Thank you Mishima.
Will definitely read this again!“Was I ignorant, then, when I was seventeen? I think not. I knew everything. A quarter-century's experience of life since then has added nothing to what I knew. The one difference is that at seventeen I had no 'realism'.”
Un libro complejo de leer, pero ideal para todo aquel que quiera acercarse un poco más a la enrevesada mente de Mishima. Tiene fragmentos muy interesantes, aunque en general se hace una novela densa de leer.
This apple was not called into existence by words, nor is it possible that the core should be completely visible from the outside like Amiel’s peculiar fruit.
The apple certainly exists, but to the core this existence as yet seems inadequate; if words cannot endorse it, then the only way to endorse it is with the eyes.
… And this is death.In this way I learned that the momentary, happy sense of existence that I had experienced that summer sunset during my life with the army could be finally endorsed only by death."
In questo libro Mishima si confessa senza l'utilizzo della "maschera" che lo portò al successo: mentre il libro giovanile era un inabissarsi nelle pieghe tortuose dello spirito, qui l'autore canta il corpo e la sua forza, parlando ancora di sé in prima persona, in un saggio dal carattere autobiografico denso di idee filosofiche e che può essere visto come un manifesto non solo della produzione artistica di Mishima ma anche, e forse soprattutto, della sua vita.
This at a future time will certainly deserve a second reading.
This book suggests to me a concern with short and measured circumstances, ever attaching itself to the present moment not through the manner of recognizing prior accumulation, but through the lifelong repetition of Mishima continuously hitting some, very truthful, divide between body and mind.
For Mishima, the quality of excellence in mind and body is a bridge that he simultaneously rejects as an illusory achievement, seeing his life as matter of inescapable god-given routine.
My first Mishima, and I feel like being a little flippant.
When it's coherent it's good.
If nothing else, it will remind you not to neglect your body, get swol, brah.
I liked the last few pages and epilogue most - not because the book was almost over but because it's far more comprehensible and better communicated.
Some really interesting sections, and some very concerning sections.
You can feel his intensity and see how it lead him to his end.
Do you even lift, bro?!
Also, the cover on this book is the greatest cover ever made.
It's unbelievable.
The line between genius and madness is so often blurred.
I'm not sure which group Mishima belongs to, but either way he's one-of-a-kind.
Sun and Steel describes his quest to bring his body to the heights that his mind has soared, and deals heavily with the balance between action and thought.
At first they come across as being crazy, but the more I think about it, the more sense his ideas make.
The poem at the end about Icarus-and Mishima for that matter-was wonderful.
In any case, it's a wonderful book that makes you think, and makes explicit many of his ideas.
This is the only work of Yukio’s I’ve read.
I find his life and message equally inspiring.
If you know anything about Yukio then it’s difficult not to at least read “Sun and Steel.” I loved this read, and found it easily grasped, BUT, I myself being both an avid reader/writer, AND someone who has been consistently enthralled in the art of body building, may have been more easily able to yield a relation to it than others might.
If one had read this prior to his taking of his own life, it’d have come as no surprise.
Mishima must be the only bookworm in the world who convinced himself that art is a form of martial arts and to hone his art, he must workout to achieve a body of steel to become the ultimate expression of his art.
The journey of self-discovery is solipsistic, yet there is conviction in the group.
Ouroboros and Icarus closed this very personal exposition, Infinity and a moment of touching the sky before falling as the order of Nature, and the final speck of an idea - it's oddly hopeful.
I'm pretty sure DeG's Kyo is heavily influenced by this book and it's apparent in his lyrics and poetry.
Sobre El sol y el acero hay un consenso. En esta apología metafísica-fascista del fisicoculturismo es donde la estética y el estilo de Mishima alcanzan su cumbre: Enhiesto falo de plata, el F104 apuntó al cielo en un ángulo recto. Solitario, como un espermatozoide, yo iba instalado dentro. Pronto iba a saber cómo se sentía el espermatozoide en el momento de la eyaculación (...) Todo era majestuoso, y la superficie del cielo azul aparecía salpicada del espermático blanco de las nubes.
Lectura obligatoria para quienes busquen conocer algo más sobre Mishima y sus ideas. Complemento ideal para su ensayo  La ética del samurái en el Japón moderno; el cual recomiendo leer primero, ya que es bastante menos denso. Y es que de a ratos se vuelve un poco demasiado intrincado en su metafísica de la vigorexia. Por otro lado, el epílogo sobre su experiencia en un caza F-104 es simplemente delicioso.
