https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16387.Carry_on_Jeeves
The joy in reading Jeeves and Wooster stories, then, comes not from the inventiveness of the plots, but from Wodehouse’s incandescently funny prose, which mixes humor dryer than a woman forced into conversation with yours truly with absurdist slapstick hijinks.
If you’re scratching your head going, “Sean is an idiot who dries out lady nethers”…well, this probably isn’t for you.Wooster: ‘Jeeves,’ I said, when he came back, ‘you don’t read a paper called Milady’s Boudoir by any chance, do you?’Jeeves: ‘No, sir.
And yet...Carry on, Jeeves has all of the wonderful Wodehouseisms I've come to know and love: bumbling Bertie Wooster and his genius of a gentleman's gentleman Jeeves; colorful characters galore like Bingo Little and Sir Roderick Glossop; poor sods getting themselves in a fix with the put-upon Bertie having to extract them time and again.
Sure, these one-off short stories deliver a punch, but to watch the long-haul battle of epic misunderstandings that the Wooster/Jeeves team endure is to see Wodehouse float like a butterfly and sting like a bee...while Bertie hilariously flounders about like a half-drowned fish.
three stars upgraded to four after writing the review, because:The ‘deja-vu’ is strong in this one. For the first three or four stories in the collection I was convinced I’ve read them before, recently enough to remember all the jokes and the plot twists. There are two main reasons for the feeling:- much as I admire P G. Wodehouse, I know he recycles characters and plots frequently, his charm relying more on style than originality.- I believe all the stories included in  Carry on, Jeeves!  have
I am convinced though that, if ‘Carry On, Jeeves!’ had been my first reading experience about the lackadaisical Wooster and his brainy, resourceful gentlemen’s gentleman, I would easily have rated it the whole five stars for excellence.Without further ado, let us carry on with a recap of the particular ghastly affairs of Bertie that only the magic touch of Jeeves can untangle:(1)	 Jeeves Takes Charge  has the merit of describing the very first encounter between master and servant, courtesy of the famous remedy for alcohol induced migraines that makes Jeeves such a welcome sight in the morning.The rummy business Betie needs rescue from involves his fiancee Florence Craye,  ‘a girl with a wonderful profile, but steeped to the gills in serious purpose’ , her uncle Willoughby who has just finished writing down the scandalous account of his youth as a rake and the inquisitive Edwin the Boyscout whose good deeds are the bane of Bertie’s existence.
Jeeves (played by Stephen Fry) always manages to get the upper hand, but always in his very understated way.My favorite story in this book was the last one, "Bertie Changes His Mind", which -- unlike the other stories -- is told from Jeeves' point of view (the rest are from Bertie's).
I had so much fun seeing the other side of Jeeves' machinations, and viewing Bertie's hapless floundering about through Jeeves' eyes was priceless.I would recommend this book to absolutely anyone with a sense of humour.
‘Carry On, Jeeves’, is a compilation of ten short stories featuring Bertie Wooster and his gentleman's gentleman Jeeves with the usual assortment of charming characters like Aunt Dahlia, her French chef Anatole, Aunt Agatha, Sir Roderick Glossop and Richard P.
Like other tales in the Bertie & Jeeves Canon these stories are full of hilarious scenarios; comic timing; delightful characters and funny dialogs with period slang.
‘Bertie Changes His Mind’ was later augmented into the brilliant full-length Jeeves and Bertie novel, ‘Right Ho, Jeeves’.Other stories in this volume like 'The Aunt and the Sluggard', 'The Artistic Career of Corky', 'Clustering Round Young Bingo' are all quite charming and pleasant to read.
I can never tire of his books that are filled with characters like a friend who is 'As vague and woollen-headed a blighter as ever bit a sandwich', and a fiance who is 'one of those robust, dynamic girls with the muscles of a welter-weight and a laugh like a squadron of cavalry charging over a tin bridge' and an aunt who 'fitted into the biggest arm-chair in the house as if it had been built round her by someone who knew they were wearing arm-chairs tight about the hips that season'.If beyond all this, I needed any incentive for picking up this book, it was the fact that it contains the only ever story narrated by Jeeves.
After reading a string of books by authors who took themselves too seriously and satisfied inadequately, it was a pleasure to return to Wodehouse. I really needed a good laugh. This book of witty and sometimes hilarious short stories about Bertie and Jeeves was read with great relish by Frederick Davidson.
This was my 3rd Jeeves book (the 3rd in The Jeeves Omnibus).
I can't say enough good things about Wodehouse.
I have systematically been trying to get loved ones and friends to read these books, or at least become familiar with the characters, because I have fallen in love with them.
Also, I have found a Wodehouse Fanatic and I imagine a long friendship with them, involving (among many other things) borrowing all their Jeeves books and movies.Highlights to Carry On, Jeeves:1.
You learn how Jeeves came into Wooster's employ in the first place.3.
The last chapter is written by Jeeves!
Well that was rummy & plum, if a bit repetitive between some stories. I was going to give it 4 stars, but had to up it to 5 because of the smiles & laughs I had while reading.A charming bit of British humor.
I read this in my pre-Goodreads days so this was actually a re-read but this time around I listened to the audio. Whenever I read a Wodehouse I wonder how I could start incorporating some Bertie-isms into my speech. Would people call it an affectation if I started saying things like, "It's not only sound, it's absolutely fruity!!" While this isn't my favorite Jeeves book I still have to give it 5 stars because everything Jeeves and Wooster is better than everything else that isn't.
This is my second P.G. Wodehouse experience following  Cocktail Time , which was not a Jeeves and Wooster novel. I enjoyed Cocktail Time and was looking forward to Carry on, Jeeves, which I didn’t actually realize was an anthology. This proved to be even better than a novel as an introduction to Jeeves and Wooster. It gave me a nice sense of their relationship through the ages. And with each story nice and short and self-contained, I could read one, pause, and then dip into another. I could easi
Did I just spoil every single Jeeves and Wooster story by outlining the formula?)As with many comedic pairings, Carry on, Jeeves lives and dies by the relationship between Jeeves and Bertie.
This is my first Jeeves and Wooster experience, yet I already feel like we are old friends.I don’t regret reading Cocktail Time first, but there’s no question which of the two works I prefer.
Whereas Cocktail Time was an amusing diversion, Carry on, Jeeves leaves me wanting more of Jeeves and Wooster, despite being subjected to ten straight short stories so recently.
I listened to an audio version of this collection of short Jeeves and Wooster stories.
If you're not familiar with the books, they were written and set in the 1920s and tell the scrapes that a rich, idle, somewhat empty-headed young man, Bertie Wooster, and his friends get into, and how they are extricated from them due to the help of Wooster's man-servant, the all-knowing Jeeves.The style of Wodehouse is nicely humorous, and will raise the occasional chortle from the listener.
The stories are told from Bertie's point of view and it's quite charming.
There is also one story from Jeeves' point of view which was far less charming as it appears that Jeeves' manipulation of Wooster is not for Bertie's own good, but for the benefit of Jeeves' working conditions.
At this point, I think I need to confess that I have committed the cardinal sin of watching the television adaptation of the book/series, this particular one played by the masterful Stephen Fry and the graceful-even-while-bumbling Hugh Laurie and I could not help but recall their faces in every scene that took place throughout the book - and it was a wonderful experience.
I urge everyone who is in the process of reading the Jeeves and Wooster series to watch its namesake British TV series or atleast the pilot episode and then resume reading the books.
Put aside the arbitrary hierarchy of the arts, and you can enjoy Wodehouse as sheer entertainment, as well as as an author who charmingly evokes a particular class during a particular time in English history.*Though I have heard the opinion that the quality of the stories declines somewhat in their later incarnations, which is why I've decided to start with the earlier books.
This collection of short stories was suggested to me by the same person who recommended Ross McDonald and John Le Carre, so I was fairly certain that it was going to be a good bet, albeit in a far different vein.
And although the collection has some rough working-out-the-schtick hiccups in the first few stories, progressively, the plots become more convoluted and Jeeves' ability to draw magical solutions out of a hat more hilarious.
Laughter cheers and Laughter.......<3 <3
"... he was a frightful chump, so we naturally drifted together, and while we were taking a snort in a private corner [of a club]... he further more endeared himself to me by an extraordinarily gifted...", well, let your imagination run wild. After all, this is P.G. Wodehouse's whacky, wonderful, always funny, exuberant but impossible world of the 1920s: non-stop drinking, smoking, snorting, and then even more drinking. Let's just hope the decade of 2020 is much the same.
It's an indication of how widely-read I was at age 10 that I knew he meant "wild surmise".Fast forward 45 years, and throw in a few episodes of Fry and Laurie's TV series Wooster.
I will say I probably wouldn't have had the patience to read this collection on paper, but the audio book helped pass the time when ironing and such.While not the first book chronologically, these short stories do tell us how Jeeves first arrived in Wooster's life.
The last story in the collection was a refreshing change of pace, narrated by Jeeves himself instead of Bertie, and showing that the gentleman's gentleman may have been a gentleman, but he wasn't above getting a bit of his own back.
Light, meaningless in the sense of global climate change of nuclear warfare, but hugely enjoyable and fun to read.Wodehouse was a master storyteller.
It was his genius (yes, I used that word again) that created this look at the lives and attitudes of the British upper crust.This is the second book I've read (not the 2nd he wrote) and I was as eager to delve into the next as I was to start the first.
If your sense of humor is damaged or has been MIA, wax up your funnybones - they are going to get a workout!
"'If you'll pardon my saying so, sir, Mr. Biffen has surely only himself to thank if he has entered upon matrimonial obligations which do not please him.''You're talking absolute rot, Jeeves. You know as well as I do that Honoria Glossop is an Act of God. You might just as well blame a fellow for getting run over by a truck.''Yes, sir.'" (159)This is the second collection of Wodehouse's Jeeves and Wooster stories that I read; it wasn't quite as sharp as the first, Very Good, Jeeves, but it was still wonderful.
Difficult to make more english. But dreamed England. They get dressed for diner, one is held well. To compensate for this rigid formal structure, there is this particular freedom of spirit: humour. It is a very particular form, with not confusing with spirit which is French. It was practised with elegance until the XIX°.All is contained, all is controlled, not waves, but there is humour. It is this balance which makes the charm of this series.
تاريخ القراءة الأصلي : ٢٠٠٢موقع القراءة : بريطانيا
Would love to read more of this some time in the future!
Maybe when I'm feeling a bit down.
There is something about this typical image of a valet (or a butler in a story like Remains of the Day) that fascinates me, no matter what they were actually like in real life.
I think it's their diligence, their neatness (by which I don't really know what I mean lol) or something like that.
The last episode narrated from the perspective of Jeeves was good fun to read because it gave a better insight into his calculating nature.
I've grown very fond of this combination of Jeeves and Wooster.
Jeeves brings the tale to a suitable conclusion saving Bertie and Florence not only from themselves but also from each other.Some of the stories are re-written from earlier appearances in ‘My Man Jeeves’ such as ‘The Artistic Career of Corky’ and although the re-writes do not really add anything to the original drafts they are such priceless gems that they bear repeating however they are of lower quality than the stories written for this volume and with hindsight waiting for five additional stories been written would have improved this book.Appearances from Jeeves and Wooster regulars such as Bingo Little and Roderick Glossop as well as the Drones club and seaside resort Marvis Bay and especially the menace of Hermione make this essential reading for all admirers of P G Wodehouse.
"We found Corky near the door, looking at the picture with one hand up in a defensive sort of way, as if he thought it might swing on him.'Stand right where you are, Bertie,' he said, without moving.
What do you think Jeeves?''I doubt it, sir.''It -- it sort of leers at you, doesn't it?''You've noticed that, too?" said Corky.'I don't see how one could help noticing.''All I tried to do was to give the little brute a cheerful expression.
He may not be the brightest, he may be a headache for his aunts but he is such a nice guy, always willing to help his "dear old chums".This is a collection of short stories, where pretty much always Bertie finds one of his old high-school friend in trouble or love despair and since he is such a good fellow, he tries his best to help them.
I love every time Bertie talks to Jeeves "coldly", only because Jeeves seems indifferent, or every time Bertie doesn't want to give in when it comes to his fashion sense (could be a pink tie, could be growing a mustache), and of course, how everything ends XDThe first story is the first time Jeeves comes to work for Bertie.
He sounds, if I may elucidate my meaning, like Someone-especially if you have just been informed that he is an intimate friend of so eminent a man as Professor Mainwaring.
You might not, no doubt, be able to say offhand whether he was Bertram Wooster the novelist, or Bertram Wooster the founder of a new school of thought; but you would have an uneasy feeling that you were exposing your ignorance if you did not give the impression of familiarity with the name.
Miss Tomlinson, as I had rather forseen, nodded brightly."I approve of any book that uses "by Jove."
I needed something light after all the serious reading - nothing like an orange and white Penguin with 2/6 on the cover!
Quite a few of these are set while Bertie and Jeeves are sojourning in New York, reflecting Wodehouse's own experience at the time.
In fact, reading a bit more of his biography than I had in the past, I see he spent rather a lot of time here, eventually naturalizing, leading me to think that his quintessentially English characters were to some extent designed to cater to American stereotypes.
სასიამოვნოდ და სახალისოდ წასაკითხი, შესანიშნავი წიგნია. იუმორთან ერთად სხვა რამეების დანახვაც შეიძლება პრინციპში - ბერტი ამბობს ერთხელ "მე რომ ჯივზის ჭკუა მქონდეს, პრემიერ მინისტრი გავხდებოდიო". სოციალური უთანასწორობა კარგად ჩანს ამ ფრაზაში. ძალიან ძალიან ძალიან ბევრი ვიცინე და ვიხითხითე - სახლში, მეტროში, ავტობუსში და უნივერსიტეტში. კაი წიგნიარი, კაი <3
This is the perfect froth to listen to while doing a huge catalog layout. I'm just glad the library had it available. Wodehouse's perfectly chosen words, especially as voiced by the inane Bertie, make the time fly.
