https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/250113.Novel_with_Cocaine
This book has the dubious honour of being the 400th book I’ve read over the last two years, the first being John Barth’s appalling Coming Soon!!!
(whose three exclamation marks speak of a desperation undignified for such a dignified dignitary).
I found the novel badly structured, slipshod, drearily eloquent like early Nabokov, bereft of character or style, and frankly an overcooked turkey.
the mother’s suicide, gives a sharp shock, but that’s about all the novel does, gives a series of sharp shocks.
Read only if you’re desperate to out-weird your bookish friend who’s always sniffing out of print relics from yesteryear.
And cocaine has nothing to do with it at all: Vadim had surrendered in the cemetery of his soul long before the white stuff left him hallowed and prostrate beneath a shivering canopy of riddled meaning left unrolled.The novel’s themes, meme, vistas....I’ve seen them all in various manifestations in other novels.
The scenes of depravity which unroll in the silver dimness of the storyboard, of son against mother, build up excruciatingly to a crescendo of assonance and then arrest in a tableau vivant, giving us breathing space to take in the conaissance of pure evil (not surprisingly escalating to indirect matricide).
Soundtrack:  Baths - Maximalist Spent two days a week shoving rather pricey quantities of oft-jagged euphoria up their snout, the nearest conduit to the terrible/beautiful master, the hub of experience, the center of narrative gravity, all transformed into a polis of sheer pleasure, pumping its flood 'round itself, the radiant, briefly blinding, photoflashbursts of a crackling and snapping electrical whitehotheat trumpeted its silent blaring in one set of ears alone. The clearblue afternoon visi
The sheer agony of things has to be faced head-on for exactly what it is.
This slavemaster habit that tunnels through this mattersgrey, that rewards the futile pursuits of whittled-minded bliss, this massive blotting out of the world, this thing, this cluster of events, this dubious, desperate, resigned, deluded hunt for some respite, for some even-keel?, for something mashed together, sitting like a tumor, aglow with the manic’s sense of playfulness, pulsing in a pose of temptation with barely hidden dislodged jaw and pitiless knives of the mouth catching the ray, shed and cast off, of the fiery splotch, resistant to orbit, that wolfs down upon itself, sated into cataclysm, twin-commanding a green thumb and a scorching ire upon the slowly drifting fragments of the globe.
Introduction, by Michael Henry Heim--Novel with Cocaine
Was expecting a While Nights with narcotics. This is likely more, however underdeveloped. In a sense this remains a strident meditation on decadence, a Slav Young Torless. The titular cocaine is merely a crescendo to an interesting portrait of the bestial and weird.Remaining fascinated with reviews composed on a phone: no discernable improvement on terms of my skill, mind you.
it's kind of like if you saw an old Russian man have a seizure under a bench in a decrepit public park somewhere and you were like, hmm, that's an ok seizure but not too convincing - here's 3 stars, and then the man screamed something unitelligible and mightily soiled himself and you were like oh!
street.") 7/8ths of this novel (memoir?) are not about cocaine at all, but about the author's highschool experiences and his affair with a woman who turns out to be married.
Now I know what it was like to be an early 20th century Russian drug addict with a crappy personality?
The mysterious and pseudonymous Ageyev (who only recently has been identified as an obscure personage named Mark Levi) was a writer with a superb sense of observation, especially of those little details of life and the world that strike one as absolutely true but which were not in the reader's awareness before reading about them.
In a sense, like Proust and Svevo, he raises these little truths out of the reader's subconscious and plants them into his or her consciousness.
For a time, Nabokov was cited as the possible genius behind 'Ageyev', a speculation that Nakobov furiously denied, claiming that he found the novel "disgusting".
Loved this. Interesting character.
Russian title of the novel can also be translated to English as Romance with Cocaine and somehow thi
Мисля си, че е по силите на руските автори да превърнат кой да е сюжет в Голяма литература.

Dark, dirty, unclean, much wisdom in its pages, the story set out what it intended to do.
The drugs are actually a minuscule part of the book.
The horror comes from the way the narrator's mind works and the actions that result from that.
A friend pointed out that early on, the narrator speaks of having a disease, similarly to the way Dostoevsky's narrator in The Underground Man begins with "I am a sick man." After considering that, and other events and thoughts that occur in the two books, I would go so far as to say that Vadim is the embodiment of the underground man.
Pronunţă aceste cuvinte de parcă ar ﬁ avut în faţă un copil, clătinînd interogativ-aﬁrmativ din capul ei cărunt.― Buunăă, am spus eu în batjocură, fără să aﬁrm sau să neg.
Acest moment a durat mult, timp în care am urmărit cum ochii ei buni se sting, plini de nedumerire şi apoi de durere.
De aceea poate că nici nu am rezistat şi am plecat ochii primul, apucînd lingura şi începînd să mănînc din nou.
Mîna în care mama ţinea lingura cu supă zăcea pe faţa de masă.
Em 1934, uma revista parisiense de emigrantes russos publicou, em vários números, um manuscrito, que lhe tinha chegado num embrulho proveniente de Constantinopla, com o título Narrativa com Cocaína e assinado M.
A obra foi mal recebida pela crítica russa que o considerou escandaloso, nojento e decadente.
Conforme explicado por Dimitri Nabokov, o autor do romance seria um emigrante russo, de nome Mark Levi, que morreu em 1936, presumivelmente em consequência do abuso de cocaína.
A acção do romance — que decorre em Moscovo, na segunda década do Século XX — é narrada por Vladimir, que recorda os tempos de estudante, as relações de amizade, as aventuras com mulheres e as experiências com a cocaína.
تتركك هذه الرواية منتفخاً بفقاعة حزنٍ شفافة , وممتعضاً من الطريقة الفاضحة والصريحة والحقيقية التي يعبر بها الكاتب عن أعمق المشاعر الإنسانية . عن أمه والأصدقاء وحبيبته .. والكوكايين !باردة , وحارقة في آن . الترجمة جميلة , ومُتقنة , لن أتردد في اقتناء ترجمات حسين عمر أبداً
Много хубаво, много силно и много руско! Така както руски автор може да подхване един обикновен човек и да го довърши толкова трагично, не знам друг да може. Повествованието е с градация. Най-силната част е тази за кокаина, както и мислите за него. Препоръчвам!
"Per un uomo innamorato tutte le donne sono solo donne, ad eccezione di quella della quale è innamorato: per lui lei è una persona. Per una donna innamorata tutti gli uomini sono solo persone, ad eccezione di quello del quale è innamorata: lui per lei è un uomo." (p. 85)
Тази книга е опиат. Тя е кокаин. Изпива силите и те оставя безмълвен. Една нереална действителност, малко страшна, но завладяваща и много, много болезнена. А и много руска.И типично по руски в романа се говори за крайности. За нежност и озлобление, за щастие и отчаяние, за движение по ръба на една безкрайна бездна. Дрогата е само тъжният финал, а преди него началото поставя самият живот. Защото и той е изтъкан от крайности и от неразрешими проблеми, пред които търсещият млад човек скланя глава. Още на http://chetecut.blogspot.com/2011/01/...
Very quick read this one and it’s been a while since I dipped my feet in Russian lit.
But it contains all you want in a Russian novel: brooding self-absorption, moral decay, the hated or absent conscience of the individual, and the gradual plunge into doom and despair.
Lovely!The eponymous cocaine appeared much later than I thought in this brief book.
This I thought a weakness of the novel.
Surely, if someone is writing their own account of drug abuse, you’d expect something a little less lucid, something more like this, in fact.And it’s a very modernist novel in that there’s no real comment on drug abuse and its effect on society.
3.5/5Il romanzo segue il tracollo del protagonista in diverse fasi della sua vita: prima al ginnasio
Който и да е той (казват, че е спорен), авторът на този роман ме удиви с изразителната детайлност и (само)аналитичност на чувствата и проявите на главния герой. Такава детайлност, която не ми дотегна, а ми беше любопитна. Изобщо не ме отврати разкриването на най-долните кътчета на човешката душа... Имах подобни впечатления при четенето на разказите на Исак Бабел, нещо ми напомни и на Набоков. С този роман/автор се добави още един плюс към сближаването ми с руската литература.
He redeems the “wasted” encounter by taking her rare silver kopecks as a keepsake of his ignominious act.The revolution of 1917 is mostly absent from this novel, though situated at the chronological centre of its action which follows Vadim from his school years at an elite Moscow preparatory school—where he displays his sexual callousness as a mark of machismo for his classmates—through his conflicted romance with a married woman in which his sincere affection for her lies at odds with a sexual identity that responds only to debasement, and finally to a cocaine addiction which saps him of his monstrous vigor and leaves nothing but his demons behind.While cocaine creates for Vadim the illusion of facilitating his natural inclinations to philosophize, it more forcefully dissipates everything that fuelled his life but his own well-founded self loathing.
Няколко страници авторът запълва с подобно разсъждения, за да ги обобщи накрая в следното:„За влюбения мъж всички жени са само жени, освен тази, в която е влюбен: за него тя е човек.За влюбената жена всички мъже са човеци с изключение на този, в когото е влюбена: за нея той е мъж.“Главите с описание на кокаиновото въздействие са провокирали не по-малко духа на читателя през 30-те на миналия век.
Но след приключване на ефекта от действието й довежда до още по-жестоко раздвоение на личността, в което въздушният човек се спуща от рая и се превръща в животно.
Later that night Vadim steals his mother’s broach in order to purchase more of the drug.
He finds refuge at a friend’s house, where descending into addiction, he spends a great deal of time in deep contemplation.Novel with Cocaine is a depressing, nihilistic, philosophical and at times amusing novel about adolescence and addiction that could be described as Dostoyevskian, due to its realism and the thorough psychological exploration of its main character.
Though its anti-hero Vadim is a reprehensible character, the reader admires him for his profound insights into the human condition.
Это чистой воды literary fiction, что обычно неправильно переводят как "интеллектуальная проза".
А здесь речь идет не столько об особой интеллектуальности, сколько об игре словами как искусстве.
Высоком искусстве, надо сказать.
Тем, кто ценит подобные наслаждения, скорее всего, понравится.Сюжет рваный, выстроенный лишь с наметками классического "завязка - кульминация - развязка".
Такое ощущение, что это нечто вроде записок для памяти: философия, наблюдения, выводы, сны, опыт...
трогательные, уверена, что во многом личные, воспоминания.О чем: Жил-был гимназист, подленький красавчик, отнюдь не дурак.
Знался с женщинами.
Ах-ах, как М.
Easily one of the best novels I've ever read.
Because it has the two elements I love in books the most:Flowing language, which doesn't underestimate my understanding of the story as a reader but challenges me enough that I find it interesting and at best, captivating.A story that takes me to another place, another time, another whatever when all the time it's this place and it's right now and it's the whatever I go through.
In other words, it's hugely relatable, told so well it stands the test of time and it's not some fantasy in never-ever-where, it happened here and it could be going on right as I write this.Recommended with a knowing smile that says "You'll like it."
With such an unsympathetic narrator, I was surprised to like this as much as I did. Mostly due to the skillful writing/translating. Perhaps because it isn't a contemporary addiction memoir (or possibly even a memoir at all) I was much more willing to forgive the juvenile philosophical questions being put forward and found myself admiring how well those questions were explored through the structure of the book and its three sections. It's also interesting as a book standing at the crossroads of the different strands of Russian literature.
Very good, rumored to have been written by Nabokov under a pseudonym, but who knows. I doubt it since the voice is more confessional or trusting in a way than his traditional more-sentient-than-thou sidestep manner. No, sometimes Nabokov is good, too--I like "Pale Fire" for instance, but you gotta admit . . .
I don’t recall ever despising a protagonist (if he can be called that!) so much. Practically void of human emotion, he treats all women, including his own mother, like objects without value. The author truly gave us what the introduction calls an “anti-hero.”The first two-thirds of the novel felt like a typical coming-of-age novel, and it wasn’t until the last third that cocaine finally made an appearance. We see his introduction to the drug and his experiences with addiction. I won’t spoil the ending but this was a bit of a haunting read for sure.
“… am mai înțeles și altceva. Că nedreptatea lipsită de speranță … nu-l duce pe om la disperare sau la furie. Această nedreptate este o substanță fierbinte, făcută anume pentru om, substanța care, invadându-i ființa, nu produce acolo o explozie distrugătoare, ci arde cu o lumină egală și liniștită.” (pp. 56-7)
