https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19333.The_World_of_Peter_Rabbit
Re-reading for the first time in well over ten years! I actually think my copy was a present for my brother but somehow I ended up with it and - along with Winnie the Pooh - the stories are the first things I remember being able to read myself. I’m surprised by how much I remember while I’m reading them again. ⭐ = FavouritesPeter Rabbit ⭐Squirrel Nutkin Tailor of Gloucester ⭐Benjamin Bunny ⭐Two Bad Mice ⭐Mrs Tiggy-Winkle Mr. Jeremy FisherTom Kitten Jemima Puddle-DuckFlopsy Bunnies ⭐Mrs. Tittlemo
Re-reading for the first time in well over ten years! I actually think my copy was a present for my brother but somehow I ended up with it and - along with Winnie the Pooh - the stories are the first things I remember being able to read myself. I’m surprised by how much I remember while I’m reading them again. ⭐️ = FavouritesPeter Rabbit ⭐️Squirrel Nutkin Tailor of Gloucester ⭐️Benjamin Bunny ⭐️Two Bad Mice ⭐️Mrs Tiggy-Winkle Mr. Jeremy FisherTom Kitten Jemima Puddle-DuckFlopsy Bunnies ⭐️Mrs. TittlemouseTimmy TiptoesJohnny Town-Mouse ⭐️
It's worth reading this whole series of books by Beatrix Potter. Nothing surpasses the first, The Tale of Peter Rabbit, but there is an interesting diversity of length and mood. The first stories are about 60 pages, half pictures, half brief text. The longest is 112 pages with just a few colour plates and some small black and white drawings. So, quite a hefty read, relatively. A treat to read.
"The Tale of Peter Rabbit""The Tale of Squirrel Nutkin""The Tailor of Gloucester""The Tale of Benjam
I wish every child could own these books. What a wonderful world Beatrix Potter gives us with this amazing cast of characters. Your child will be a nature lover for life if you read Beatrix Potter to him/her...Timeless classics.
I really loved the illustrations. I had only read Tale of Peter Rabbit before this, so I was not prepared for how real the situations got for the animals! Amazing. Loved the end of Little Pig Robinson and how there was a little side romance plot going on in there.
My children and I spent countless hours reading the stories of Jemima Puddleduck, Squirrel Nutkins, Peter Rabbit, and all the wonderful little characters Beatrix Potter created. They were all in French, but the language was still, to me, just as personal and endearing. I've since lost those books, as I have all my children's book due to a sudden move and then a flood. That's the wonderful thing about books. You don't have to own them in order for them to be a part of you.
I bought this set of Beatrix Potter books years ago after reading a review about her as an author and an artist. There was something about what I read about her doing all of her own illustrations as well as writing that ignited something in me. It actually led to an epiphany that brought out my own abilities as an artist and painter. I wanted to have the set of books to look at, read, and touch because of whatever that spark of knowledge was that the story of Ms. Potter created within me.
I got this set as a gift when I was seven from my mom's coworker. I can't tell you how many times I've read and re-read each book (A LOT). This is priceless. The stories and illustrations are absolutely wonderful. I'm definitely getting this for my kids. (I'd give them my set, but my brother stole it to give to his son...which is okay by me.)
Wonderful stories, wonderful use of animal characters to satisfy and help the minds of children. Creative, imaginative, beautiful illustrations.I'll never forget when my mother put this book in my hands, a priceless moment :)
Charming and timeless.
I love children's books -- this set is a classic. My kids love them!
Beautiful stories, beautiful illustrations, all children should own these books!
I love Beatrix Potter's unusual tales for children. The watercolors are marvelous and detailed. And the stories are so unexpected.
A beautiful box set to give as a baby gift.
A complete joy to read these sweet stories and gaze at the delicate illustrations with my girl.
