https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2570.The_Lion_and_the_Jewel
الأسد والجوهرة مسرحية للأديب النيجيري وولي سوينكا نُشرت عام 1963والأدب النيجيري بعد الاستقلال يتناول الصراع الثقافي بين تيار التحديث والتقليدبين أفكار التغيير والتقدم وبين الواقع الذي تحكمه العادات والتقاليد وأيضا الخرافاتفي المسرحية يحاول سوينكا التوافق بين مزايا القديم والجديدويؤيد التغيير الواعي البعيد عن التعالي والشعارات
The play deals with the conflict between traditional ways and modernization; for example, should a man pay a bride price in order to marry?
The young schoolmaster, a believer in Western culture, wants to marry 'the jewel' Sidi but doesn't want to pay her bride price claiming it is old-fashioned (though the reader/viewer is also left with the impression that he can't afford it!).
As a Westerner myself, I started out with the preconceived notion that modernization would be a beneficial change but by the end of the play, I was not so sure.
Loved it! Even though the plot was on the predictable side, the dialogue, cultural exposition, characters were all gorgeously executed. The humor and the emotional journey were strong enough.
This play however focuses more on dipicting the thoughts and beliefs of the two opposite sides; on the one hand we have Lakunle who represents the contaminated flock (and I intentionally use the word flock) and on the other hand, we have Baroka: the clan's Bale (the Lion) who represents loyal folks, those sticking to their traditions and practices, those who are resisting the white man's invasion.
Another conflict that took place throughout the play is between Sidi (the Jewel); the clan's Beauty and Lakunle; the westernized man.
but still the main conflict is between the Lion and the Jewel.
African Nobel Laureate in literature, Soyinka, wrote this book when he was still a very young man, and the work showcased what a literary genius he already was.
The ingredients that would make the playwright one of the most acclaimed in the world is present here, as well as the dazzling, rich language that taps into African lores so well.
Soyinka explores these, and others here as (western) modernity is encroaching on a rural setting which however still has massive echoes of the past.
This is a brilliant work that one can read again and again
The themes and characters are so representative of different cultures and although there is a story, this play really conveys more than just the average small novel.
For example, Sidi the main character is representative of so much, feminism, the Nigerian people and women in general.
This part of the novel is very interesting because they both love Sidi in a different way, and the same as both ideals of thinking want the center of the culture to be theirs.
It is hard because I would never make the decisions that Sidi did, but not hard because not too long ago in our own Western culture did men rule women.
Why Sidi ? I didn't expect her final choice i was kind of rooting for the the other option. I really want to see a performance of this play, all the singing and the dancing got to be just spectacular. A must read for play lovers.
The beginning of the play started out as interesting, but by the end, I was left baffled and my first engagement with it wasn't that fulfilling.The play is set in the village of Ilunjinle, of the Yoruba tribes of Africa, on the brink of modernisation and juxtaposes modernity and traditions through the pivotal male characters of a young, Westernised school teacher and the old village headman, both vying for the hand of the village belle, the 'Jewel' Sidi.
I am not quite sure what to make of it.Once again, I think the reading experience was never going to match the visual and audio experience of seeing this as a play on stage.
I also liked how the settings changed from one to the next and would be very curious to see how that is interpretted on the stage.But visuals aside, (as I only going on imagination here), the plot and the characters kept me very interested in what was happening.
I enjoyed seeing the conflict between tradition and modernity.
Very funny.Oh Sidi.Sassy SidiYou'll be surprised at the end trust me.
This drama is one of the best African literary pieces. I had to read this for one of my courses. It the beginning I enjoyed the drama,specially Sidi and Lakunle's conversation. Then gradually the drama went out of the range of my liking. The theme and the plot is great but I felt like it's written more for the critics than a casual reader. Well,not reading it again after my exam tomorrow.
Baroka, the “Bale” (village chief) of Ilujinle, is the “Lion” in the play.
He is a sly, sixty-two years old man, who feigns importance to seduce Sidi, the village belle.
To seduce Sidi, Baroka flatters her, extols her beauty, and befuddles her with romantic words, profuse riddles and proverbs.
The victory of Baroka over Lakunle who should have married Sidi, but fails to do so because he does not want to pay the bride price, can be regarded as the triumph of Yoruba traditional values over western influence and ideas.
Some people can also regard it as the victory of old age experience over youth.
In classic Shakespearean style, this play takes place in a single day and focuses on relationship drama.
The main question is: who will get the girl?
What will win out: the new ways of Western culture, or the traditional ways?
We'll burn the forest, cut the trees..."The traditional ways are represented by the leader Baroka.
Baroka reminds us that "the skin of progress / Masks, unknown, the spotted wolf of sameness...
/ Does sameness not revolt your being?"Unfortunately, the two main women in this play almost become pawns in this game (seemingly played by the men).
Fascinating play.
I think though the book was written in English, its setting was purely african.
on the other hand the titles seems to imitate Beauty and the Beast which is more european.I can also say the lion goes with the jewel in the sense could be ruby a precious stone which signifies great strength.
there could be no great challenge because of the kings capacity.The novel is a hard on to understand but a general conclusion.
The writer wanted to present a pure picture of a desired african woman for all who adored her elegance.
One of my favourite plays in the good old days; high school. It was on the schools syllabus, so I was kinda forced to read it, but I don't regret it because it was a good read. The best written African drama. It's Been long I read it, all I can remember is that LAKUNLE was outstanding in the play. And he will make you laugh out loud lol.
Soyinka's The Lion and the Jewel is one humorous story with layers of complexity. It's interesting.Click on the link for my review on my bloghttp://freduagyeman.blogspot.com/2010...thanks
The book is a drama about Africa.It concerned about a teacher named Lakunle who wants to change the way of the locals but don't know how to go about it.Finally, he loses his betrothed to Baroka,a traditional Chief.It is very interesting play...
I don't know how to feel about this book. I should read more books by African authors ... a sadly under-represented category in my bookshelf
i loved this play beyond words! i can't seem to come up with a fair review
Sad ending, very funny though!
I'm completely new to Soyinka, but I'm a fan. I like that he gives you stories of African traditions and colonialism, without making these the focus of his plays. Very enjoyable.
لم أشعر بأي شعور تجاهها..ربما الملل فقط..والرغبة في الانتهاء منها أيضا ..
An interesting and funny indictment of the rapid modernization of Africa, represented by the pompous Lakunle, and his pursuit of Sidi, the titular Jewel, against Baroka, the Lion of the title. Written in a very poetic fashion for a play, this, unlike some plays, was fun to read, and I feel I got more out of it than most plays I read just because the language was so good. Overall, an interesting play by a deserving Nobel Laureate. I look forward to reading more of Soyinka’s work.
I thought this was very interesting, but I would not have read it if it wasn't required.
Thought provoking novel about progress and development, story told from a different perspective.
A small but very interesting drama/play.
Wonderful descriptive writing. It packed a punch but I didn't like story line.
The main conflict is between the "Jewel" Sidi, a young beautiful girl, and Lakule, a westernized boy who wants to marry her and have a western style marriage.
He is no match for Sidi or Lakunle, because of his cunning, wisdom, and experience, but Sidi and Lakunle do give it a good try.Classic conflicts include Western society versus traditional society and older generation versus younger generation.I have not seen it performed but I would very much like to.
We usually read it out loud in class for fun.
So glad I read this play.
He manages to evoke the time and place without resorting to stereotypes or cliches, and the culture and characters are incredibly fully realized, considering it's a short, comedic play.
Reading more of the Nobel Laureates plays that I got from the library.
I am dismayed I hadn't read him earlier, especially since I studied theatre at a supposedly progressive, academic liberal arts college, but our theatre class syllabi were horribly narrow considering the school.
It was frustrating at the time, but even more now that I've learned the sheer numbers of playwrights that we completely ignored.
The plot is very simple...with its chapters divided into morning, noon, night (if i am not mistaken). Anyway, this play contains several cultural knowledge about the tribe. You have Sidi who is the Jewel and she is the beauty of the village who got two opposing party interested in her, a modern English school teacher and the village headman. The book showcases issues of dowry, weddings, and western vs. African cultures/ values, to name some. The play is short so the book is not a hard read. It's funny too at some parts.
