https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/23686.Ranma_Vol_1_Ranma_
Surely funny, fighty enough and full of natural phenomena to tame.But I’ve found pretty challenging the fight Ranma has to undergo with a new, beautiful teacher in school. She’s got the power to drain the battle-aura, rendering anyone unable to fight. Ranma has got to study the advice of the old Geeser: “attack the pressure points that will negate” her stealing power. -How to reach those points without getting into a compromised,shameful position? She’s got a powerful trick called the “8 treasures of the deadly 5 yen piece”. She’s, however, sort of clumsy while eating.
If you enjoy Fruits Basket, I highly recommend checking this series out! I adored it when I was younger, and it definitely lived up to my 10-year old obsession with this series.
The setup is classic: Ranma has fallen into a cursed spring and now turns into a girl every time he's doused with cold water.
Ranma just accidentally fell into a pool!) particularly with Ranma's father, Genma, who fell into a cursed spring and now turns into a panda.
(Genma seems more accepting of his curse, though, since he spends a fair bit of his time as a panda, communicating through signs.) The curse is a problem for Ranma, and so is the fact that he's been engaged to the daughter of one of his father's friends, Akane, and Akane hates men.
Also, there's lot of martial arts.
So it's a slapstick martial arts romantic comedy.
RESEÑA COMPLETA ➜https://goo.gl/s5fGgr ¿Ustedes recuerdan cuál su primer crush? Yo sip, aunque han pasado varios años recuerdo que mi primer gran amor no fue con alguno de los príncipes de Disney como todas las niñas de mi edad, sino que estaba completamente loca por un chico que al echarle agua fría se convertía en mujer… muy típico, ¿oh no? Así que ya se podrán imaginar lo emocionada que estoy por tener en mis manos el manga de mi primer amor infantil y si fuera por mí me pondría a fangirl
Así que ya se podrán imaginar lo emocionada que estoy por tener en mis manos el manga de mi primer amor infantil y si fuera por mí me pondría a fangirlear como loca con ustedes pero sé que aún debe haber algún despistado en el mundo que no conoce la historia de Ranma Saotome (si, aunque no lo podamos creer), así que por ahora en esta primera reseña me contendré para poder contarles de la historia.En este primer tomo la autora nos presenta a la familia Tendo compuesta por un padre, Soun Tendo y sus tres hijas, Kasumi, Nabiki y Akane.
Ahh, Ranma, the good old days before you dragged on forever and ever with no good ending in sight.
Every time a boy gets touched by cold water he turns into a girl, and will only change back into a boy when touched by hot water. His father has the same problem but only replace the word "girl" with "panda". Yes, panda. So over the top ridiculous, I really enjoyed it!
The series begins with a story, spends a few chapters introducing the characters and then has really thin continuity.
All chapters are divided into stand-alone small story arcs and only those introducing recurring characters or another attempt at a given situation can be called to have an on-going scenario.
Although there is an evolving story, the series is focusing on humor rather in scenario continuity.
He can be seen as the ridicule of the perfect Japanese manly stereotype, as he is supposed to act like a man, even when hiding in a dress.Akane: A young female martial artist.
Ranma has an interesting and colorful history; having spent most of his life on one long training mission with his father, Genma.
Ranma also has a small, but rather interesting problem; he spends roughly half of his time in the body of girl!
Cursed at an ancient spring in China after a training mishap, whenever Ranma gets splashed with cold water he turns into a she!
Not to be outdone, his father becomes cursed with the body of a panda at the same time.
3.5not read, just watched it this was the first anime i watched after first coming to Australia...i remember it was the holidays so me and my brother went to the library (we both practically lived in the library during holidays) and borrowed the dvd. i vaguely remember the first episode and some other scenes here and there. hahah it was then the most unusual thing we had ever watched but we continued watching the whole thing
My very first manga this was my introduction to the world of Japanese animation and their graphic novels. Back in the day when books were flipped and in large format I remember dropping $17 for my first volume back in the days when Pokemon was big.
This teacher has three daughters who live in a cozy relationship with each other, and I knew I was in love with the book when the two sisters utterly bailed on Akane, the middle child, since she’s never liked boys and this suitor is a girl half the time.
Ranma is hurt and meets the local doctor, who Akane Tendo is actually smitten with and trying to turn herself into someone he’ll admire.
Given the sensibility, we should have expected that Ranma and Akane, who both detest having a marriage arranged, actually start to like each other in an adorably awkward romance.
Me declaro oficialmente enamorada de Ranma.
Loved this! The characters are all very charming and cute, I’m a big sucker for this art style too. Reading this now I found some parts hard to read, with how many times they made comments on what a girl should look like or should behave like, including using the word tomboy multiple times. I feel like I could easily just read past this though and try not to take it too seriously given it was written when it was.
Lindos recuerdos de preadolescente. Me acuerdo cuando Ranma se cambiaba de sexo (y el color de pelo) y era como tabú todo eso en esa época. Y me acuerdo de Shampoo, con las coletas violetas y dos chorlitos que me recordaban a Usagui Tsukino.
Si me ves, Ranma soy de ti Este amor está creciendoPor favor, Ranma di que si Y te entregaré mi corazon
This seems to be purely strange and entertaining, without any deeper meanings, which is not my cup of tea. I might read one more volume, though, because the characters are likable and their love story drama is engaging.
Ranma 1/2 Is such a great manga, It is about this boy who goes to China to train for martial arts, but he ends up falling into a spring, which happens to be cursed, causing his to turn into a beautiful girl Every time that he is doused with cold water, hot water reversing the effect. This manga has such memorable characters, and a great story all around. I Recommend this book to people who enjoy manga of course, I think some people who don’t enjoy manga could still enjoy this, Because Of The Great plot.
Ranma is expected to marry the unknown daughter (Akane) of his father’s best friend.
Akane has no interest in men, Ranma included, or marriage, which may have something to do with all the fighting and proposals she has to deal with at school.
Interestingly, Akane and family quickly accept the curse and welcome Ranma and his father into their home.
The story features a good deal of gender-bending, awkwardness between the two leads, and high flying action.
I believe the humor, action, and the constant challenging of expectations would be appealing to teen readers, especially girls.
But wait there is more because his father has already promised a friend that Ranma will marry the friend’s daughter.
Multiple identity crisis, stupendous martial art action and some beautiful characters : do you need more?I was in school when this anime series came to telly for only a few months.
But it was so funny that I read the manga later on the first chance I got.Adult humour + martial art + identity crisis + fantastic characters and art = DO NOT miss this if you like a good laugh any-time.
I love this series for many things, one of them being its consistent sense of humour and the other being the painful progression of Akane and Ranma's 'relationship'.
The martial arts scenes are good as well, I love how Ranma has to get 'serious' against Ryoga towards the end!
It seems that whenever this is about to happen Ranma ends up drenched in cold water.My only wish with this volume is that I think Akane's crush on Dr Tofu could have been played out for longer, just for jealous comedies sake; since characters affections such as Ryoga and 'Blue lightening' are obviously completely one sided.
08 January 2013Rereading this after nearly a decade, this made me giddy with feelings of nostalgia. This series has definitely stood the test of time. You can't help but be in a good mood when you read this. Ranma , Volume 1 is one of the funniest mangas out there. Rumiko Takahashi magically blends action, romance, silliness, and perversion into a laugh-out-loud fun package. Unlike a lot of shōjo manga, the lead female character, Akane, is tough and doesn't need any rescuing. The characterizatio
This series has definitely stood the test of time.
Ranma ½, Volume 1 is one of the funniest mangas out there.
Unlike a lot of shōjo manga, the lead female character, Akane, is tough and doesn't need any rescuing.
There are so many fun likable characters to fall in love with.The entire volume is entertaining, but I particularly love the parts when Ranma has to deal with an assortment of adversaries.
Their relationship reminds me of the lovingly abusive relationship between Bleach's Ichigo and his father.I'm looking forward to reliving the adventures with Ranma and Akane.
A teenage boy named Ramna is betrothed to a teenage girl but the girl is a tomboy who hates boys.
Ramna is also a martial arts master who had a magical incident that causes him to turn into a girl when water hits him -- and his dad had a similar incident but he turns into a panda when wet.
During their fight, Ramna gets wet, turns into a girl, and now the nemesis falls in love with him (as the girl)!
It is a super strange martial arts fantasy with a one-of-a-kind love triangle.
Never before was there a series I hate and love so much.
Hate because after 36 volumes, 7 seasons, 1 OVA box set, 2 movies and 1 live action special, there is NO F***ING ENDING!!!!!!!!!!
I even had to rebuy 2 seasons and the movies after my buddy lost them >.< Ok, ok, deep breath.
This series is one of my favorites.
It is a great winding down series that requires no thought process on your part -kinda like watching Beevis & Butthead.
And ya gotta give Rumiko credit for her guts.
Brava, Rumiko, brava.
On a training journey in China, Ranma Saotome and his father Genma fell into the legendery cursed springs Jusenkyo.
When someone falls into the cursed spring, they take the physical form of whatever drowned there whenever they are in contact with cold water.
Ranma fell into the spring of the drowned girl while Genma fell into the spring of the drowned panda.
In order to carry on the Tendo Dojo, they agreed that Ranma should marry Akane, one of Tendo’s three daughters.
And so begins the crazy high school adventures of Ranma and Akane.

10-6-12:Emmy Re-Reads Still as good as the first time around!
:D 1-8-11 Ah, Ranma 1/2.
I can honestly say this is one of my favorite series in the world, manga or not.I ordered this from the library because I wanted to read all of Takahashi-sensei's work.
I didn't think it'd be too spectacular.
I mean, what could she write that'd be better or just as good as InuYasha?
The answer: Ranma!This series is full of colorful characters and hilarious shenanigans.
Pick this book up and you won't be disappointed.
You're in for a wild ride with Ranma, Akane, and the rest of the gang!
it's a great series.
i read through vol.
21, but probably won't go and review/rate them since i no longer have access to them.
it really wouldn't be right to do these without the ability to properly assess each book.
this series is a great example of takahashi's inability to create endings though.
ranma 1/2 is just like inuyasha in the respect that problems never seem to resolve themselves.
but, unlike inuyasha (where you want to throw it out the window when kikyo comes back from the dead for like the 3rd time) the repeats and non-endings are comical leading you to not mind so much.
This is a cute and funny book I had enjoyed. Its a complete series and is an old japaneses manga that you read left to right. I is something I've enjoyed and is like a romantic comedy that is good for multiple ages. The characters are have very well shown persinallitys and are very colorful. Its a good book that I recremend to the every day manga reader or anime fan. This book also has its own show.
After seeing this title on various library shelves for years, I finally picked it up on the recommendation of a friend. What a delightful, silly, lighthearted, entertaining, and yet altogether substantial story! I was surprised at how much I enjoyed it since I'm not so much a fan of the old style manga artwork. That said, I thought the layouts were quite good. I'm partway through the second vlume and still enjoying it immensely!
"Ranma 1/2" is the greatest manga series ever made!! Volume one is no exception as it tells the beginning of how Ranma and Akane both met each other and how Ranma's gender switching situation becomes one of the most greatest comedy sequences ever put on manga. This manga is highly recommended for anyone who loves both comedy and action and is sure to remain a true classic for many years.
