https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85942.Volume_1
This can only be achieved when the leading class is constructing prudent alliances with other groups in order to establish their cultural hegemony.
For example, the Bourgeoisie allied with Christianity and the Catholic Church in order to establish their cultural hegemony.
Similarly, Marxism would need to ally with the Reformation and Humanism in order to establish its cultural hegemony.
Even though Gramsci is a Marxist author, his ideas have been utilised by Fascists, the New Right and other political groups.
Gramsci does not develop the idea of hegemony in any of his essays explicitly.
Like Marx, he argued that all societies in human history have been divided into two basic groups: the privileged and the marginalized, the oppressor and the oppressed, the dominant and the subordinate.
As he wrote in his famous Prison Notebooks, "The marginalized groups of history include not only the economically oppressed, but also women, racial minorities and many ‘criminals.’" What Marx and his orthodox followers described as "the people," Gramsci describes as an "ensemble" of subordinate groups and classes in every society that has ever existed until now.
Las reflexiones durante los años en la cárcel de Grasmci se extienden por una amplia gama de tópicos, la historia Italiana,La revolución francesa, la unificación Alemana, la económica política y los medios.Su análisis de los Intelectuales en el movimiento de unificación italiano y posteriormente en el siglo XX es magnifico, de la misma forma la forma en que se aleja del marxismo ortodoxo y lo modifica con sus propias ideas respecto al socialismo occidental.
The notebooks cover a wide range of topics, including Italian history and nationalism, the French Revolution, fascism, Fordism, civil society, folklore, religion and high and popular culture.Gramsci is best known for his theory of cultural hegemony, which describes how the state and ruling capitalist class – the bourgeoisie – use cultural institutions to maintain power in capitalist societies.
The bourgeoisie, in Gramsci's view, develops a hegemonic culture using ideology rather than violence, economic force, or coercion.
This cultural hegemony is produced and reproduced by the dominant class through the institutions that form the superstructure.
in places a brilliant book.
in places unless you are down with the intellecual - political scene in late 1800s early 1900s mussolini era, a lot of this will go over your head - well it did go over mine.
Gramshe wrote this collection of his notes whilst in prison over about a 8 year period and its essentially a collection of his intellectual musings on a whole variery of topics from Islam, to mussololini, to gabriele d'anunzio to americanism and christianity.
incredibly detailed book and very intellectual.
he also talks about creating an individal that in combine intelectual philosophical political and social characterstics and act not just talk about acting.
This review represents an interesting point in Gramsci's thought. If you are looking for his most important contributions to Western Marxism, you won't find them here. However, you will find the earliest developments of his consciousness and method. You also find a lot of slightly-more-complex-than-orthordox-Marxist historical analysis, often focusing on interesting and obscure historical epochs.I recommend it.
Here is where Gramsci sat in a cold cell & articulated his revolutionary insights on hegemony & false consciousness. More enjoyable & consistent than Engels & Benjamin (even Marx himself). All in all, an essential read if you consider yourself a serious radical & want a bold breakout from classical Marxism.
heavily theoretical communist writer. Less generally applicable than I had hoped.
