https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31947.Philosophy_and_the_Mirror_of_Nature
There is an elegant science-fiction-like sequence featuring a hypothetical race called the Antipodeans, who have a good knowledge of neurology and only talk about pain in terms of neural correlates.
Far from being a fixed, eternal idea, an inescapable part of our way of thinking about the world, Rorty considers that the Glassy Essence, in its present form, is a relatively recent invention of Descartes; moreover, he claims that the mainstream idea of philosophy, as we think of it today, is largely due to Kant and the post-Kantian school, who diligently reconstructed the past history of the subject to make it logically lead up to them.
This is an essay which anybody who has ever regaled a professional philosopher should read.
It will make you snort with laughter as Rorty tells you exactly how it is, these guys in their glass castles having obscure debates about nothing that matters, when we all know that philosophy is about the things that do matter.
We all know it except the professional philosophers and you have to wonder why they are so thick that they don't get it.
Recommended for people who have taken the time to learn the language of hardcore analytic philosophy but want to dissolve the problems anyway. The middle 200 pages of this were a real slog - his impulse is more moral than philosophical, but he pays lip-service to the analytic tradition by using it to prove, basically, that everybody between Descartes and Dewey was a big dum-dum.
As such, he is concerned with telling a good story.
The problem with telling a story is that you can mistake your fictions for reality.
This, ironically, is Rorty's very point.
Pretending to see unadulterated reality, as if through a translucent mirror (of nature), mistakes the map for the territory, and stultifies our perception.
Philosophies are more or less useful visions that allow us to keep up talking to each other as human beings, and discover new things about ourselves.
This book was a landmark for me. I never would have been able to read Gadamer or Heidegger if I hadn't encountered Rorty first. He gives the best possible introduction to continental philosophy for anyone with a rigorous, empirical, "no bullshit" attitude. That said, I ultimately think the phenomenologists leave Rorty in the dust, but then you have to climb up ladders before you can kick them over.
The book itself offers a take on the history Western Philosophy as mostly a series of various attempts to see truth as a kind of mirroring and to anchor knowledge in correspondence with the world, and then to offer the author's contrasting view of truth as no more than a kind of agreement.
Though the author comes from the analytic tradition, and can quote chapter and verse on any number of analytic philosophers, he ultimately cares much more to make his big-picture case against mirroring and much less to attend to the details of the views he objects to.
Quite an ambitious book but rather dated now and although he invokes Wittgenstein, I am not convinced he fully got to grips with him and took on board what he had to say . Read most of the book but not everything and decided it was not really worth finishing (whereas usually I read to the end come what may!)
Aga just küsimused filosoofia süvenevast spetsialiseerumisest ja teaduslikkustumisest, epistemoloogia ja hermeneutika, loodus- ja humanitaarteaduste vahekorrast on minu jaoks selle raamatu kõige huvitavam osa.Rorty on suuremeelne filosoof, tal on paljude erinevate valdkondade suhtes avar vaatepiir.
Lõpetuseks üks hea provokatiivne tsitaat tekstist:"Meie karm naturalistlik aimdus, et kõik vaimne on, kui mitte taandatav looduslikule, siis vähemalt sellel parasiteeriv, ei tähenda iseenesest muud, kui et füüsika pakub meile hea stabiilse tausta, mille suhtes rääkida oma lugusid ajaloolistest muutustest.
Pole ju tõsi nagu me oleksime ükskord lihtsalt saanud sügava teadmise reaalsuse loomuse kohta, mis teatas meile, et kõik peale aatomite ja tühjuse on olemas üksnes "konventsiooni järgi" (või "spirituaalselt" või "välja mõeldult")."
It should be said, firstly, that I am an avowed pragmatist and as such am a welcome audience to a book such as this.
But I found it to be a spirited defense of an alternative to that particular philosophical mission, an alternative that quite simply throws out a lot of the major theoretical problems of the past 250 years as being language games.My principal failure as a reader was that I just hadn't read a great many of the philosophers Rorty references, takes inspiration from, and attacks-- Quine, Sellars, and Strawson come immediately to mind.
Really Interesting. I'm a bit skeptical of Rorty's take on the history of Philosophy, it seems to me to be a masterwork of editing, rather than a clear story about how philosophy has progressed. Nevertheless, I think that there is a pretty interesting case made against correspondence theory. Of particular value are the last two chapters on Hermeneutics vs. Epistemology, and the role of the philosopher as concerned with "edification."
A mind-blowing work of philosophy that spells the end of an era: epistemology and for that matter, analytic philosophy. If you're into late 20th century philosophy you can't go wrong with Richard Rorty.
I’m apprehensive/skeptical about it but all of the hullabaloo seems worth checking out all the same, even if only to know precisely what’s wrong with Rorty’s take. From a film on Rorty:http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q7lB_w...&http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GlrEbf...
sinto que maior parte deste livro me passou ao lado porque não tenho o tipo de background em leituras filosóficas necessário para o compreender na íntegra mas achei que traz ao de cima ideias e questões interessantes e se esforça minimamente para se fazer entender para leigos como eu.
Fantastic. Redescribes the history of philosophy in light of the criticisms of Wittgenstein, et. al. and presents an alternative vision of a philosophy based on conversation rather than epistemology.
Rorty's updating of Pragmatism includes discussions of how the views of Heidegger and Wittgenstein intersect with that tradition.
Something good narrator
A genius. Not Gadamer but a chatty solution to reason's demise nevertheless.
Well, only one that I feel like mentioning.) It comes in his early chapters about the "mind body problem." Rorty insists there is no real problem and that the problem is just an issue of language.
Instead of saying, "I feel pain" they say, "my c-fibers are being stimulated." Rorty insists there is no way of knowing whether they really feel pain or not.
So we would know since they act exactly like us, as Rorty points out, that yes they feel sensations even if those sensations are different than our own sensations.
My robot might act exactly like a human but is not conscious.
Rorty's knowledge of the history of philosophy, and in particular, of the analytic tradition is impressive, and his arguments against the tradition are sympathetic, and reasonable.
You may not like Rorty's conclusion, but you cannot say that his arguments are rashly thought out or that he is a mere naysayer.The one word of caution that I would put out about this book is that it does presuppose a significant degree of knowledge about modern philosophy and analytic philosophy in particular.
Rorty’s name popped up early in my research, and knowing that he had thought deeply about the seeming singularity of reality as expressed in post-Enlightenment philosophy, decided that this was the book to uncover it all.
I am still a bit uncertain how any or all of Rorty’s ideas relate to my search for the hidden alchemy of virtual reality, but perhaps may not be seeing the forest for the trees, and by trying to re-experience his book as a whole (connecting all my jumbled thoughts for this brief blurb) found a way out of and into the forest.
There was some tough going in the second chapter when Rorty uses the metaphor of Alien Anitpodeans who can read their own brain chemistry. But, the last few chapters were excellent. I recommend listening to the "Partially Examined Life" podcast as one reads the book.
Not as accessible as some of his later works (like Contingency, Irony and Solidarity) but a seminal and compelling book nonetheless.
Don't know what the hype is about. Just another annoyingly badly written post-modern self-important book.
this is my worldview now, he seems completely correct
Need to reread in a few years - way more here than I can properly assimilate now.
One of the greatest book of philosophy I've ever read. It really expands your thoughts and mind about the issues inside of it.
“Literary survival” calls attention to my allusive style wherein I engage with literature from ancient classics to modern pop culture with the overarching theme that the classics survive as raw material for my 21st century art.
The title of The Canterbury Tales in Neverland quite explicitly calls attention to the fact that everything from the poetry of Geoffrey Chaucer to the latest movie re-make of Peter Pan resonates in my work.
The Canterbury Tales in Neverland also resonates with the theme of the epistemological quandaries of storytelling.
Instead, our sentences and beliefs must be justified by our community while the idea of eternal truth remains forever out of reach.The power of this idea is obvious from the moment it is explained but it is not until the final chapter that Rorty draws his findings together to produce powerful existential conclusions that should inspire his fans and enemies alike.PMN is an extremely controversial, counterintuitive book but its contents are rewarding.
Whether or not you agree with his conclusions, Rorty has issued a critique on modern philosophy that will forever change the way we discuss truth and justification.
Rorty attempts to show a common pathway between the American, British and Continental traditions in 20th century philosophy.
There are certainly details that have been challenged but that Rorty does in fact show common pathways and convergence among these diverse traditions is beyond question.
Each succeeding school or thinker maintaining that unlike their predecessors they have now in fact arrived at the ultimate nature of things.
Philosophy becomes instead an act of community engagement, an embrace of the impermanent, the contingent and to forge solidarity in spite of not having access to mind the of God or whatever term one offers for the ultimate nature of reality.
Good or bad, right or wrong, Rorty made me do that with this book.Part-analytic, part-continental, and attempting to dismiss those unhelpful titles in the process, Rorty dismantles the history of epistemology as the perceived backbone of modern thought.
An attempt to create a final theory of justification, knowledge or metaphysics isn't just unnecessary, it's also insufficient in its practical application.Rorty, like many others, is one of those great writers who are worth dipping into for the vast library of philosophy they own inside their minds, the clarity of their thought, and their daring to not just dismiss other theories but to show that they weren't even asking the right questions.
