https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/155981.Psycho_Cybernetics_A_New_Way_to_Get_More_Living_Out_of_Life
The book is about how to cultivate a more productive mind; that your mental attitude is related to your success in a lot of ways.
The only time we have any power over is the present moment…don’t waste time worrying about the past or future; do the things you need to do right now to heal the past or prepare for the future.--Happiness is a choice.
Your circumstances may be difficult or discouraging…but your attitude can make those circumstances worse or better.
دوستانِ گرانقدر، از آنجا که این کتاب به نوعی تخصصی به شمار می آید، بنابراین تصمیم گرفتم ریویوِ کاملی در موردِ آن بنویسم تا چنانچه حوصلهٔ خواندنِ این کتاب را نداشته و یا شرایطِ مطالعه در موردِ این موضوع برایتان فراهم نباشد، اطلاعاتِ لازم و مفیدی را با خواندنِ این ریویو به دست بیاورید... این کتاب در ایران با ترجمهٔ قراچه داغی موجود است و البته ترجمه ای قدیمی تر نیز از این کتاب انجام گرفته که مترجمِ آن زنده یاد ابراهیم خواجه نوری بوده است، که احتمالاً این ترجمه در ایران ممکن است به سختی پیدا شود---
انسان میتواند به کمکِ نوآموختگی، عادات و باورهایِ مناسبی در خود به وجود آورد که بدونِ شک این باورها باید در مسیرِ خردگرایی و دانشِ انسانی بوده و از خرافات و موهومات خالی باشد---------------------------------------------‎تصویرِ ذهنی از خود، به صورتِ ناخودآگاه از تجربه هایِ گذشته، موقعیتها و شکستهایِ شخصی، به وجود می آید***************************‎پندار، گفتار، کردار، احساسات و توانایی هایِ انسان، بر اساسِ تصویرِ ذهنی، شکل میگیرد***************************‎تصویرِ ذهنی که از خود میسازید، قابلِ تغییر میباشد و با تغییرِ آن میتوانید، زندگیِ خویش را تغییر دهید***************************‎تصویرِ ذهنیِ خوب و درست از خویش، بسیار اهمیت دارد...
Probably the most impactful book I've ever read.
I read the 1960 edition, but it has been updated several times; however the underlying premise still holds true: "A human being always acts and feels and performs in accordance with what he imagines to be true about himself and his enviroment." Our nervous system reacts appropriately to what we think or imagine to be true.
I have applied this so many times in my life and know it to be a true principle.
When we can see ourselves acting, feeling, or being as we want to be, the body responds accordingly.
In fact, I would say it is downright pathetic.The book carries the typical sales pitch employed in the early era of Self-Improvement Gurus (In the Introduction the typical phrases like “In this book you will find 8 secrets to this and 6 steps to that and 14 techniques to something else”).
Maltz compares the methodology of achieving a desired improvement in one's self image with that used in the design of modern physical automatic control systems (he uses the term "Cybernetics" to describe the servomechanism systems of his day, such as those used in military fire control systems).Almost all the methods stated in the book are mind-based i.e. imaginative and visual in nature with most of the techniques resting in the range of changing ones image mentally to imagining how one should act.
Although I've read several self-help and development books and am a fan of these kinds of books I didn't really believe that they could help me , i only considered them as an insight and a different perspective of life and towards the problems we face, but this has definitely changed with this book In psycho- cybernetics as its name implies, it guides you through a journey of exploring how does the human mind perceive the environment and it is psychological makeup .The thing that really impressed,me that this book is considered the guru of self-help books written since 1960, and many of the books I've read contained many principles Dr. Maltz mentioned.
(Now I'm sure many of the ideas are even older than this, but it's like they all converged in this one book to save us the trouble of having to hunt them down from older books.) There are a few inevitable anachronisms that have seeped in over the last half-century, but once I just let that slide I found this to be a really solid book of advice for getting your life in order.
It's funny to think that I actually avoided investigating this book for a number of years because I thought the title sounded silly and archaic.
Enough to say that I created the shelf called best-book-ever for this book.
p.30[2] Spend 30 minutes a day visualising yourself being successful and acting and reacting appropriately.
p.51[3] Spend 30 minutes a day relaxing to the following mental images: a).
Imagining oneself as being composed of giant balloons and whilst lying down slowly letting them deflate.d).
A relaxing experience from your past.p.67 [4] Several times a day remember a period of great relaxation and mentally repeat to yourself "I am relaxed".
Insofar as possible, I am going to act as though successes are inevitable, and I already am the personality I want to be.
I will practice acting like and feeling like this new personality.V.
mengarahkan kepada sasaran yang dituju dengan tepat (contohnya: peluru kendali, automatic landing system yang ada di pesawat terbang)Buku ini mengajarkan bahwa kita sebagai manusia mempunyai komputer bahkan kebih canggih dalam otak kita dan mekanisme lainnya dalam tubuh kita, yang jadi masalah kita tidak pernah tahu bagaimana cara menggunakan dengan tepat utuk mencapai tujuan atau goal dalam kehidupan kita.Karena kita mempunyai prinsip kerja komputer, prinsip yang paling dasar pada komputer garbage in dan garbage out berlaku juga pada diri kita, kalau kita selalu memasukkan data yang negatif kedalam diri kita yang keluar berupa kata-kata maupun tindakan yang kita lakukan pasti akan negatif yang menjauhkan kita dari apa yang kita inginkan oleh karena itu buku ini mengajarkan jangan sekali-kali memasukkan data negatif kedalam otak kita maupun perasaan kita, akibatnya bisa ditebak sendiri perbuatan dan perilaku kita menjadi negatif.
totally mind changing book...packed with alot of big ideas one of the most mind blowing ideas..
Unfortunately I'm addicted to itin the Audio version of the book he made an example by an episode of "Dr.Frasier" the TV series...
then I said OMG this is totally me Must see video http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=18eQDe...anyway..its so hard for me to summarize this book ..but Brian Johnson from philosophersnotes.com did a great job summarizing itactually the first time I heard about this book was from his noteshighly recommend to check him outhttp://www.philosophersnotes.com/note...http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wvmQYO...but also highly recommend to read & reRead the whole book
We are capable of so much more than we are taught to believe.
Psychocybernetics doesn't teach you what to think, but HOW to think in such a way that your entire life will be transformed.
Maxwell Maltz exposes the secrets of how powerful our thoughts are.
Maxwell Maltz tells it better than most anybody else I've read.I first encountered this book back in the early 80's.
I didn't know it then but my life was being transformed into something pretty amazing and this was one of the books that helped me change the entire course of my life.
This was one of the best books (and most helpful) I have ever read in my life. It has been a life changer for me. I strongly recommend this book to anyone struggling with a poor self image or lacking confidence. This book will change your life. I can only thank the author so much for writing it and sharing! Why dont they teach some of this in schools? I dont know?
Full Review: Psycho-Cybernetics ReviewHow do you improve your self-image to enable a better life?How do you de-hypnotize yourself from false beliefs?Do you want to become a rational thinker to avoid stress?How do you consistently generate creative ideas?How do people become success junkies?Psycho-CyberneticsPsycho-Cybernetics by Dr. Maxwell Waltz is a 1960′s classic that has been quoted many times by the ‘Jesus’ of self-development, Tony Robbins.Having nothing to do with robots, or the future, Psycho-cybernetics, is about using your brain, as you would a machine.Imagination Is RealImagination plays an epic, and under-rated role in improving almost every element in your life, from public speaking, sports, programming, social gatherings, to achieving a calm state of mind, and everything in between.Our brains cannot distinguish between imagination and reality, when training ourselves in a particular task.For example, if you experience social anxiety when communicating with someone you are interested in, then you can create a positive mental scenario of the interaction.Imagine yourself approaching, opening, interacting, and escalating.
This was recommended by John Sonmez on the top 10 books every programmer should read.
This and other series of books he recommended had nothing to do with programming.Written by Dr.Maxwell Maltz, a plastic surgeon who during his illustrious career uncovered a lot of psychological reasons behind why one would opt for a surgery and the science behind our perception of our own self - our self-image.
He explains with numerous examples the theory behind cybernetics and the art of correcting and staying on course towards our goal using constructive negative feedback.
Great book for investigating ways to train your mind to be more positive and confident. I found it especially useful after my Great Depression (worse than the one in the late 20's early 30's!). It's a very practical read but in no way boring if you're interested in improving your focus, mental acuity, and overall mental outlook on life.
RELAX AND LET YOUR SUCCESS MECHANISM WORK FOR YOU- Do your worrying before you place your bet, not after the wheel starts turning.- Form the habit of consciously responding to the present moment.- Try to do only one thing at a time.- Sleep on it.- Relax while you work7.
INGREDIENTS OF THE SUCCESS-TYPE PERSONALITY AND HOW TO ACQUIRE THEMS-ense of direction (goal)U-nderstanding (truth, admit mistakes)C-ourage (to act, be willing to make mistakes)C-harity (people are important)E-steemS-elf-Confidence (remember past successes, forget failures.)S-elf-Acceptance9.
Changed my life.
The elimination principle: Once the conscious mind has made its selection, all other possible are eliminated for that given moment.Chapter 3Fake It Till You Make It: Imagining Your Way To SuccessRealizing that our actions, feelings, and behavior are the result of our own images and beliefs give us the lever that psychology has always needed for changing personality.You are responsible for the thoughts you have in your head at any given time.
A brilliant (and from personal experience, very effective) concept, fascinating examples (including tales from the authors previous career as a plastic surgeon) and a very interesting explanation of the power of hypnosis.
There's also a fascinating insight into the power of identity (the way you see yourself).
Maltz is an expert in this field as his previous work as a plastic surgeon educated him in the bizarre phenomena that a person can make a physical change to their appearance (IE.
You'll get something genuinely useful, and if you can bear with the more mundane second half of the book, you'll be rewarded with an interesting conclusion.
“Creative striving for a goal that is important to you as a result of your own deep felt needs, aspirations and talents (and not the symbols which the ‘Joneses’ expect you to display) brings happiness as well as success because you will be functioning as you were meant to function.
Every human being has access to a power greater than himself.”~ Maxwell Maltz from Psycho-CyberneticsPsycho-Cybernetics.
:)Rational Thought - How to use it.Here’s to getting our Psycho-Cybernetic on as we set inspired goals, imagine our ideals, take action as we correct inevitable mistakes and practice FEELING our success.
The premise is that there exists an internal blueprint, a self-image, that lays at the foundation of thoughts, behavior, and feeling.
This said self-image can be changed, the book maintains, by creative imagination and goal-oriented action.
I am well aware that a practical book shouldn't be judged by its theoretical underpinnings, but by how certain actions are more or less likely to produce the advertised effect, while theory is only used to "sell" the ideas.
The book contains the usual oratory propaganda and anecdotal evidence to support its case, which is to be expected.
The book may actually provide the desired effects and contains some good ideas.
Pyscho-Cybernetics, in spite of its strange name that initially turned me off, has stood the test of time, and in fact has given birth to a thriving self-help movement that draws upon Mr. Maltz's theories of visualization and forgiveness.Mr. Maltz, a plastic surgeon, came to believe that inner scars - many of us have them - affect people has much as ugly, external ones.
Though many Freudians look down on Pyscho-Cybernetics, I've found that its techniques work well with traditional Freudian therapies.I've had a lot of parts to my recovery, and yet after all these years, I often reread the highlights of this book because, to me, going over Mr. Maltz's ideas is like an athlete practicing his or her technique.
Maxwell Maltz's magnum opus guides you in applying rational thinking to achieve your goals and develop an accurate and healthy self-image.Maltz believes that success will be automatic, if you use your brain properly.
Inside your head is an automatic success mechanism that seeks to achieve goals.
Your role in the process is to use the conscious mind to choose what goals you set and then you get out of the way and let your automatic success mechanism do its thing.This book and it's updated version, New Psycho-Cybernetics, have influenced my behaviour and way of thinking more than any book I've read since I first embraced The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People: Powerful Lessons in Personal Change in 1997.For anyone interested in success and feeling better about yourself, this is a foundational must-read.
Nothing unique here. Actually somewhat boring. I only got through about 1/3 before I quit in boredome.
Extraordinary book. Everyone should read it.
Definitely one of those books you need to read and re-read throughout your life!
Despite what some other reviewers have written I don't think this book is boring. Actually at first I thought it was going to go down the same logic as something like the secret but then I quickly realized that it wasn't like that at all. It was more about how your attitude and your neural pathways influenced the outcome of situations and how you can gain better control of that with interactions. Which was pretty fun to delve into even if I didn't agree with all of his points. Worth looking into for sure.
o discuție din mai multe perspective despre cât de importantă este imaginea (mentală) pe care noi o avem despre noi analizată de un chirurg plastician care își ajută pacienții mai mult psihologic decât cu bisturiul.
We are wasting ourselves thinking of (what if we were afraid). This book encourages people to get out of this feeling.
Teaches you how to emotionally uplift yourself and get over the traditional thinking patterns.
