https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/156979.The_Bungalow_Mystery
The book starts off with heart pounding action, as Nancy and her friend Helen are caught out on the lake in a thunderstorm. Will they reach the shore through the blowing winds and treacherous waves? Luckily, a young gal, Laura, hears Nancy's cries for help and rescues the two. After introductions are made, Laura rather cryptically responds that she may need Nancy's help some day soon. What mystery will find Nancy tracking down clues? Another sound mystery in the series. Love how each chapter ends on a suspenseful note. Predictable but fun.
I will probably never get over my girl-crush on Nancy Drew, and this book just confirms that fact.
Several things are to be expected from the Nancy Drew books, and I've taken the time to document them here:1.
3. Carolyn Keene loves the words "sleuth" and "girl detective" and will use them as many times as she possibly can.
But the fact remains that Nancy Drew is a literary heroine far ahead of her time, and even with all her books' issues, she's still a much better role model than certain contemporary literary ladies I could name.
This is a comparative review of the 1930s and 1950s editions of this book - if you get a chance to read them side-by-side, I very strongly recommend it.Of the three books I've read comparatively, this one diverges the furthest.
This is really only odd in comparison (and it feels a little too convenient, but there's only so much I'm going to ask for, plotting-wise.)- Don't forget the Gratuitous Housework Scene, a must in the 50s editions!- All guns mysteriously disappear in the 50s versions.
This appears to be consistent book-to-book.- Any moral ambiguity in the finale is removed for 50s audiences.
I used to love Nancy Drew books as a kid, but I think I preferred the "newer" stories. This one wasn't quite as interesting or as exciting I hoped it would be. Still, it was fun to read as an adult to my daughter, who enjoyed the climax of the story.
Meanwhile, Mr. Drew asks Nancy to help him figure out how bearer bonds have disappeared from a bank in town.
Or is there a connection?I can’t remember if I read this one as a kid or not, but I quickly got caught up in the fun as an adult.
Some of the twists were a little obvious, but I couldn’t figure out how everything quite fit together until the end.
We still haven’t met Nancy’s usual friends, but with the emphasis on plot and action, the characters are thin anyway.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
It's so hard to rate these books.
And part is the fact that whatever era the story (or version of the story) is from, Nancy was ahead of her time in her independence and curiosity.
The downside of these books is that it's nearly impossible to describe or rate them individually.
The upside is that the cultural context and the history of the series over time makes every book slightly more interesting, and the more I learn about the series, the more I appreciate it as a whole.
I am really enjoying my trip down memory lane by revisiting Nancy Drew from the beginning. This is by far the best one. The addition of Laura Linney narrating makes them even better.Though they are dated, you could imagine Nancy today. She is self-reliant and independent and an excellent role model for young girls. Her dad doesn't even spend the whole time telling her to get a young man and get married. He supports her and admires her "plucky" attitude. This story involved embezzlement, kidnapping, and a threatened heiress. Great fun as always!!
Great book. I loved this series as a child. I'm re-reading them now as a stress-reducer. Looking at it from an adult's perspective, I can now appreciate the positive lessons Keene was presenting to girls reading these books. They were written in the 1930s, so it's especially impressive how independent and capable Nancy is. Great vocabulary-building words too. And the illustrations are a delight.
Paid a visit to Nancy Drew today while going through a bit of a reading slump.
As a child Nancy was one of my most reliable friends.
Reading her today I still love her.
However now I see her through different eyes than I did then.
She is perfect.
In every way.
No one else shines quite as brightly as she does.
Would I want her as a role model for my kids?
Probably not.
We learn from our failures.
Character building and all that.
And perfection is exhausting.
But do I still love paying her a visit now and then?
I highly recommend the 1930 edition. Nancy and young Laura take turns rescuing each other. And then Nancy rescues herself. And, wow, Mr. Carson Drew shows up to rescue everybody! As a prosecution attorney, or whatever he is, he sure knows his way around a car chase.He advises Laura: "Get in the roadster with Nancy. If it comes to a battle, you girls can drop back and be out of range of the bullets." Sir, yes, sir!This version also features a cunning and ruthless criminal named "Stumpy." Strikes fear into my heart.
I have mixed thoughts on this one. It was more predictable every step of the way, yet also a bit more intense. From the storm and near drowning at the start to the kidnapping, knockouts and other violent acts. Nancy gets in a bit over her head in this mystery! I liked the edgier approach! And the dog walking bit was amusing! I still get confused when the housekeeper goes by first name one moment and last name the next. It had me picturing two different people at times.
A great Nancy Drew mystery! I devoured it in one evening. The plot twists had perfect timing. I love that Nancy solves her own mysteries while assisting her father with his predicaments. An enjoyable read!
Yet another excellent addition to the Nancy Drew mystery book series.
95th book read in 2017.Number 149 out of 659 on my all time book list.Best in the series so far. Real villains and extra characters. Nancy can't do it alone!
Anyhow, Laura Pendleton, who's walking along the shore, just happens to hear their cries for help, gets into another boat, paddles out and saves both Nancy and Helen.
(Or presto!) The young man, his sister and Nancy all are able to move the tree to the side of the road.
Also, the 'bungalow' in question, where Nancy, Helen and Laura take shelter (after the boating accident) is reused later in the story as a 'hideout' for a criminal.
Hot as hell without power after Hurricane Flo, but Nancy keeps calm and carries on.Read in tandum the original and revised editions:Original Published 193025 chapters / 204 pagesPlot synopsis: Nancy sets out to help a young orphan whose legal guardian is not all he appears.Revised Revised 196020 chapters / 180 pagesPlot synopsis: Nancy sets out to help a young orphan whose legal guardians (a married couple) are not all they appear. An intersecting side plot involves a bank securities embezzlemen
Hot as hell without power after Hurricane Flo, but Nancy keeps calm and carries on.Read in tandum the original and revised editions:Original
Published 193025 chapters / 204 pagesPlot synopsis: Nancy sets out to help a young orphan whose legal guardian is not all he appears.Revised
Revised 196020 chapters / 180 pagesPlot synopsis: Nancy sets out to help a young orphan whose legal guardians (a married couple) are not all they appear.
An intersecting side plot involves a bank securities embezzlement case that Nancy is assisting her father with.***2012 personal reading challenge for the month of January:
Childhood favorites that influenced my subsequent reading life
Every time Nancy goes off to investigate or sleuth as she calls it, I keep thinking - use your cell phone.
Her car breaks down, today she'd be whipping out the cell phone and calling Triple A or using her GPS.
Considering these are young adult novels, the language is above what most kids read today.
The story is good and keeps me reading.
I won't go into detail about the story line; I'll just say that once again Nancy stumbles upon someone needing help and comes to the rescue.
This is the second book where Nancy rescues an orphan.
I loved The Bungalow Mystery! This was one of the first ND books I read. It's really memorable. The characters were great, it was a nice mystery. I think this is one of the best Nancy Drew mysteries. Content: G - No inappropriate content
What a delight! This is the first Nancy Drew book I've read and although some of the language is somewhat outdated and old fashion I couldn't put it down!!! Suspense and action packed from the first page! Why didn't I start reading these earlier? It was grand!
We've really come a long way in character depth and believability in fiction.One thing that does slightly grate on my nerves so far about this series is how Nancy's mystery always coincides with whatever case her father is working on.
I don't really read this story for a super believable suspense so much as a simplistic stroll down memory lane.Once again this book is void of Nancy's friends, George and Bess as well as her boyfriend, Ned. Hopefully, they turn up in the series soon.
It just doesn't seem the same without them!Note: Kristin reads and reviews both Christian and secular fiction on A Simply Enchanted Life.
Or should I ask if YOU will be seeing more of him?Ah, I do still love Nancy Drew.
Some things I think are impossible to outgrow.
Of course the two cases introduced at the beginning of the book have to be connected, some things you just see coming.
I'm happy I decided to re-read all these books as an adult.
I'm having a great time!It would be a good time to introduce Nancy to my daughters as well.
And honestly a skirt while breaking and entering?"Ah, read it in the context of the time period and just enjoy the story!
This is the 3rd book in the series. The story follows Nancy and her friend Helen and how they are caught up in a storm while boating but are saved and that is how they fall into another fantastic investigative adventure. One thing I love about these books is how you can tell they are not from this time. Many things have different names (credit cards are credit plates) and some old food and desserts you don't hear about anymore (cinnamon cake with warm applesauce). I highly recommend these books to everyone.
While these Nancy Drew stories are not necessarily realistic, they are amusing and enjoyable, and I enjoy reading them to my daughter and she loves hearing them. These original stories all take place in the age before cell phones and computers so Nancy seems to be in great danger many times, though thankfully the bad guys in these stories we have read so far never go past tying people up and disabling cars. No rape, murder, or serious violence. Maybe the Bad Guys all had more of a conscience in the old days. :-)
Super teen sleuth Nancy Drew is is caught up in one of her most exciting mysteries! Making new friends, intrigue, embezzlement, dangerous criminals and kidnapping. There are plenty of twists and turns that will keep the reader in suspense until the final pages. Just love these golden and glamorous stories that were certainly childhood favorites. They never lose their appeal to the the young at heart!
This book was amazing! It was the first Nancy Drew book that I ever read and it makes me want to read more of them. I love clothes, and the author of this book takes time to describe everything Nancy is wearing. Helping a friend and solving a mystery at the same time is a great story and it's just what I like. This was a great introduction to the series!
From a near-fatal boating accident at the very start, we go on to Nancy and friend basically breaking into a boathouse to take shelter from the storm with a poor little rich orphan being manipulated by her guardians--or are they her guardians?
(I direct the interested reader to The Thin Man, particularly the film).
In those days, rich widows apparently trusted their banks to manage their money for them, sight unseen--with predictable results in this case.
Off she goes to find out what's really going on, leading to a lot of driving through storms, kidnap, explosion, and I don't know what all.
My god, but Nancy Drew gets up to some shit.Just in this book, she (view spoiler)[almost drowns, makes three new friends, solves a bank heist mystery and an intriguing case of mistaken identity, has her car sabotaged, gets taken prisoner, frees herself and another prisoner, saves people from a car wreck, protects some precious jewels from thieves (and gets gifted one in the process) (hide spoiler)] AND tools around town in her convertible, wears clothes I covet, goes for impromptu overnight geta

A very solid mystery that kids and parents should enjoy. Although published in the 90s, very little is changed from the original publication. That may not seem like a plus with today's audiences, but it shows just how exceptional Nancy is compared to many or her peers (female and male). The ending is really given away by chapter 14, but the author still throws in a few curves that surprise and delight.Find it! Read it!
I’ve read both first and revised editions of this book, and they both rock. Especially the first edition! I love how Nancy is helping a orphan, which just shows how kind she is. Another this I love about this book is that Helen Corning is in it. I’ve always liked her and it’s too bad they phased her out.
Reading this book—originally published in 1930—gave me such a nostalgic feeling, which I loved! Although I'm not sure if I read this particular book growing up, I know that I enjoyed many Nancy Drew books as a little girl and I'm happy to be reading them again. This is a fun to read mystery series, especially for girls in their youth.
