https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/391729.The_Tell_Tale_Heart_and_Other_Writings
I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.I heard many things in hell.دوم.. دوم.. دومأهي دقات طبول الحرب أم نبضات بشري مسكين..؟دوم.. دوم.. دومقوية ..جحيمية..مرعبةدوم.. دوم.. دوملا تفارق عقل المجانين في دنيا العقلاءدوم.. دوم.. دومستسمعها طوال القراءةوسترتعد كلما طرق أحدهم لأي سبب بجواركدوم.. دوم.. دومهي جحيم بو.. وبطله.. وجحيمك أنت أيضا طالما تقرأ!::::::::::القلب الواشي هي أول قصة أدرسها في حياتي على الإطلاقكنت في عامي الأول بالكلية حينما تعرفت للمرة الأولى على هذا الإسمإدجار آلان بوومن ي

Whathisname lures his friendenemy to his creepy wine cellar with the promise of a cask of vintage Amontillado.Interestingly this story seems to have brought Poe back into vogue with the Tumblr generation.
Poe was so versatile and talented he could do anything; including writing dull ghost ship stories.13.
I did not like it to begin with, as Poe was rambling again earlier on, but I quickly changed my mind when weirdness ensues.
Poe is naturally eloquent whereas I feel Lovecraft tries too hard and often end up with verbiage.I have not reviewed the poems in this book because I have not yet read them (except The Raven, which is awesome).
My first time to read and finish a collection by Edgar Allan Poe and I was just blown away. This was one of my two Halloween reads this year and it made my long Halloween weekend truly worth remembering. Here are my reactions to each of the 32 writings included in the book by Edgar Allan Poe.  STORIES  1) The Tell-Tale Heart. 3 STARSQuite scary. The narrator murders his or her (there is no pronoun used) master who has a "vulture-like" eyes. The narrator admits the crime at the beginning of his n
I have never read a novel (or a short story) that can keep you awake until it is really really time for you to sleep because it is 1am and you have work or school to attend to in a few hours.5) The Masque of the Red Death.
3 STARSThis one feels like a Sherlock Holmes short story rather than Edgar Allan Poe's.
Nice to read something not only different from most of the works in this collection but also appreciate EAP when he talks about angels rather than demons or supernatural beings.22) The City in the Sea. 3 STARSThis is what I am saying in #21.
Above all was the sense of hearing acute.”The incomparable Vincent Price reading the story in its entirety:https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mTxyN...“And have I not told you that what you mistake for madness is but over-acuteness of the sense?
It increased my fury, as the beating of a drum stimulates the soldier into courage.” Here’s the 1960 film version of the story:http://www.dailymotion.com/video/x19bn1a“I heard a slight groan, and I knew it was the groan of mortal terror.
I knew what the old man felt, and pitied him, although I chuckled at heart.” You want to read it for yourself or frighten your friends and family?
It's not the pulse of the man he kills and it isn't the beating of the mans heart - its his heart and pulse.Considering this is Poe's most famous work (discounting Raven) I'm a little depressed that it is so often read as just macabre and nothing more.
He makes narrators who try to convince you of one thing while he, as the author, has to try and convince you of the truth.
Furthermore, it makes sense when one considers that Poe is the father of the detective novel.
See, it makes sense now.
This anthology The Tell-Tale Heart and Other Writings is comprised of his finest works in short story and poetry forms tackling what is readily terrifying, certain terrors that elude the psyche, and the unfortunate ways human beings transform into the very monsters they fear.
Dupin only appeared in two stories, The Murders in Rue Morgue and The Purloined Letter which deserve multiple readings to be acquire a more nuanced appreciation for the groundwork and thought process that Poe has employed in characterizing his detective and resolving the plots.After readers had their fill of his gripping short stories, they can move on to the assortment of his poems which offer a more economical way of slaking their interest and intrigue for the memorably horrific and sometimes even upsetting concepts regarding ailments and discord that people will always find themselves caught up in and often not overcoming.

I've read this story, not the whole book. In my opinion, this is a masterpiece of suspense, and a powerful story about how a person's guilt will betray them in the end. I love the way Poe builds up the tension slowly but surely until the end, with a careful use of narrative. I believe this is the story that made me a Poe fan.
Fear not; these things have never stopped me before, and certainly aren’t going to today.The problem with providing a ‘rating’ or review on a collection (for me, at least) is that I’d prefer to rate each short story on its own merits and just be done with it.
While this isn’t necessarily a bad thing, for some of the duds in the collection I was left thinking “Didn’t I just read this?” If this is what the other half of Poe’s output is like, perhaps I’m better off with this edition and some of Colonel Sanders finest after all.
I also got a good sense of 19th values toward "conquering the world" reading this narrative.It seemed like the majority of the stories mention the words "opium" and "ague" at least once.
I got to the point where I started looking for the first mention of opium and ague every time I started a new story.I also get the feeling that being buried alive was one of Poe's worst nightmares.
You should have seen me." I read this one story after hearing a lot of appreciation for it.
Lately I have been reading Edgar Allan Poe's one work at a time and my gosh!, the genius keeps on getting better.
Here he tells a story of a young person(gender is not mentioned) who kills an old man in a cold and calculated manner.
The way in which the story is told is simply magical.
The killer took utmost precautions while performing the murder and getting rid of the body but the heart (ah!
you heartless bitch!) still tells the tale.
nervous, very, very dreadfully nervous I had been and am; but why WILL you say that I am mad?
The disease had sharpened my senses, not destroyed, not dulled them.
Above all was the sense of hearing acute.
I heard all things in the heaven and in the earth.
I heard many things in hell.
How then am I mad?
and observe how healthily, how calmly, I can tell you the whole story."]The tension mounts but along the way you'll surely identify with psychosis, sometimes unwittingly.
A beautiful embodiment of the power of short story.
“A wrong is unredressed when the retribution overtakes its redresser. It is equally unredressed when the avenger fails to make himself felt as such to him who has done the wrong.” With this cruel vengeance Montresor, with malicious patience and deceptive friendliness, lured Fortunato into the vault and buried him alive in a niche. The reader knows the target to be doomed and watched the drunken man step deeper into the snare. As usual, Poe was able to portray the criminal mind, with its unrepentant hatred and cruel delight, as if he were a comrade.
he delves into his writings in a way that it reflects his emotion and understanding of life.
we all know he lived a very sorrowful life from start to end and by choosing a genre such a mystery and sorrow as his recurring motives he has defined and made it one of the best works since Shakespeare.
I praise and admire his poetry and his stories which tell the readers that life isn't all pretty.
and I'd like to think that E.A.P was the father of the detective stories which others are reluctant to give him the title.
Once a reader understands Poe's obsession with trying to evoke the sublime (uncontrolable emotion, such as horror or love) in his writing, a reader of a Tell-tale will see how masterfully Poe evokes these emotions. The art in Poe's writing is how deeply he connects inevitable emotion of the human experience to the meaning of words through the pacing and rhythm of his writing.This short story is a must read. If once can let go of there attachments to the world around them and be swept into the emotional reality that Poe creates.
Another author whom I had the great pleasure to discover, while at University. Edgar Allan Poe's stories are so dark, but impossible to put down. He cleverly weaves his tales, and leaves his readers in a state of disbelief.
One of my favorite childhood books.Yes, I had one weird childhood.
One of my favourite authors, one of my favourites tales.

Having not read Poe since high school, I figured that I would read a collection of his works.
Boy did some of them bring back memories.I must say that Poe holds up for me these years later.
What I really noticed this go around was the depth of Poe's writing ability to go deep in the mind's inner recesses.
Many say that he is also the father of the English language detective (Murders in the Rue Morgue) story, which I tend to agree with dating before Wilkie Collins' Woman in White and The Moonstone.In any event if you haven't tried Poe, you should.
VERY creepy! We were forced to read it in English... AHH!!!
[read three times]"The Tell-Tale Heart.” A elderly man with a cloudy eye is murdered by (presumably) his caretaker.
[read twice]"The Fall of the House Of Usher.” A new Poe story to me.
A man comes to visit a childhood friend, Roderick Usher, and finds him suffering from a possibly mental illness that makes him react in horror to most light and sounds.
Apparently, Poe himself said this story crossed the line of good taste.“The Man Who Was All Used Up.” A rather humorous piece; the narrator meets a general famed for his bravery and is foiled at every turn when he tries to find out details.
Poe does a very good job of making you invested in the characters and the plot in a very short amount of time, as always, and gets your heart rising at the apex, which quickly falls to a satisfying insanity.
He plots to kill the old man, and it's in this portion that the tension rises as he slowly prowls in on the man with a lamp.
[image error]It drives him to hear the beating heart, like the sound of a watch beneath layers of cotton, through the floorboards.
In “The Tell-Tale Heart” by Edgar Allen Poe, the narrator is a person who kills an old man.
Even though the old man has never wronged him, he hates the old man’s eye because it looks like a vulture’s eye.
In the “Tell Tale Heart” there are three themes: be careful who you trust, killing makes you crazy, and mental illness should be addressed.One theme is to be careful who we trust.
The narrator (who is the main character) says “he had never wronged me, but the eye is what I hate.” He is crazy because he hates someone because of the way they look.
I listened to this story on a record in high school as an actor read it in a creepy voice and I screamed when he described the heart beating under the floorboards. I wasn't the only one either. Fantastic story.
The Tell-Tale Heart was always one of those stories that stuck out to me because of the absolute guilt that the narrator felt. Sadly, it always made me think twice before pulling a prank on my brother or doing something else I shouldn't have been doing. I guess I was a dark kid!
Contents:The Tell-Tale HeartThe Murders in the Rue MorgueThe Fall of the House of UsherThe Pit and the PendulumWilliam WilsonThe Black CatThe Cask of AmontilladoEleonora
Some of the stories and poems were really interesting and unique, but others just bored me completely. Overall I think it's a book worth reading, but it definitely isn't a quick read.
Really weird, but really good. The Tell-Tale Heart is interesting and oodly enough I even laughed a bit, it's pretty short and doesn't take long to read. But I have to say The Black Cat is just as odd, maybe even weirder, and kept my attention to the end.
I love me some Poe. Not sure if I could stomach a re-read at this point, but I may try.
