https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/70105.The_Counterfeiters
The structure of the novel was written to mirror "Cubism," in that it interweaves between several different plots and portrays multiple points of view.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه دسامبر سال 1973 میلادیعنوان: سکه سازان؛ نویسنده: آندره ژید (آندره پل گیوم ژید؛ حسن فرهمندی؛ تهران، امیرکبیر، 1335؛ در 400 ص، عکس، چاپ سوم 1349؛ ویرایشهای دیگر با مقدمه و حواشی در 667 ص؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، کتابفروشی زوار، 1359، در 546 ص؛ چاپ پنجم؛ چاپ دیگر: تهران، ماهی، 1386، در 479 ص؛ چاپ دوم ماهی 1388؛ چاپ سوم 1392؛ شابک: 9789649971223؛سکه سازان را سه بخش آراسته؛ بخش نخست: در 232 ص است، رخدادهای این بخش، در پاریس، و در کوچه های کودکی نویسنده، میگذرد؛ بخش دوم: در 76 ص است، در یکی از دهکده های سوئیس، روی میدهد، و رخ مبدهد.
It tells the story of a multitude of characters, each of which symbolizes the different incarnations of the author, declaims all philosophical theories on the novel and art and human relations and develops them up to convince the reader, just before continuing in another character (taken in a new context generally) an idea that has everything contradictory and which appears to us just as right.
A tangled web of a novel. Drifts from one character to the next. Good conversations and a pretty exciting plot. Assume everyone is gay until proven otherwise.
Τα 4* για έναν επίλογο ΣΥΓΚΛΟΝΙΣΤΙΚΟ!!!!!!
Το τελείωσα με δάκρυα στα μάτια.Είναι αναμφισβήτητα ένα σπουδαίο βίβλίο με πολλά κρυμμένα σοφά μηνύματα περί παιδείας, πατρικών, μητρικών και αδελφικών σχέσεων και φιλίας.
Προσωπικά, το βρήκα πολύ ενδιαφέρον στην αρχή, κάπου στη μέση με έκανε να ψιλοβαρεθώ και στο τέλος η αγωνία κορυφώθηκε.
Αξίζει, επίσης το γεγονός ότι είναι ενα μυθιστόρημα περί μυθιστορήματος, έμπνευσης και συγγραφέα.
Παρακολουθούμε έναν συγγραφέα να εμπνέεται το μυθιστόρημά του από γεγονότα της πραγματικής ζωής του και στην ουσία η ζωή να διαμορφώνει το βιβλίο που γράφει και γίνεται ένα ωραίο μπέρδεμα όπου ένα μυθιστόρημα κρύβεται μέσα στο μυθιστόρημα που διαβάζεις.
Eduardo es un hombre que escribe una novela y nosotros (los lectores) leemos el borrador de esa novela.
Los dos abandonan sus casas para poder construir sus vidas.
Desde una edad muy chica nos enseñan que la familia es la base de todo, el hogar, las raíces.
Muy pocas personas se dan cuenta que la familia es una maquina de represión.
Solo las personas que abandonan sus hogares pueden ser unos seres libres, fuertes, originales, reflexivas.
Probablemente, es uno de los libros más íntimos que leí.
That is the primary theme of the novel which comes from the title of the book by the writer Edouard.
The story of Edouard writing his novel demonstrates his search for knowledge, yet as he associates with a group of his own adolescent relatives it appears as an artificial arrangement; one that displays the effects upon society of youth's corruption of traditional standards and values.
Some of the characters are overtly homosexual, like the adolescent Olivier, and the adult writers Count de Passavant and Eduoard.
Gide's novel was not received well on its appearance, perhaps because of its homosexual themes and its unusual composition.
This is subtle metafiction since one of the main characters is a writer and the nature of Gide's The Counterfeiters is intellectual, bohemian, philosophical and of its time - for example, Freudian techniques used on a boy are exposited upon and discussed.
The denouement (cannot spoil), however, I did not like much because it felt a bit obvious and heavy-handed to me and it rang hollow, so that was a shame.Edit: I suppose the counterfeit coins used in the novel that the title references, represent the hollow and somewhat flashy or surface nature and currency of many of these relationships people have with each other.
سكه سازان تصور بى خودى كه كتاب هاى مدرسه از آندره ژيد به من داده بودو عوض كرد و در واقع از جزئياتى كه بهشىن توجه مى كنه و تجربه هايى كه ازشون مى نويسه خيلى خوشم اومد و حتما چيز ديگرى از آندره ژيد خواهم خوند.
نكته اين كتاب شخصيت پردازى هاشه، خيلى خوب درومده.
آدم دوست داره همه چيزشون رو دنبال كنه و بيشتر ازشون بدونه.تو كتاب از يك سرى تجربه در روابط و دوستى ها حرف مى زنه.
خوندن اين ها منو مجاب مى كنه كتاب بخونم.
" Que cette question de la sincérité est irritante !
Je ne suis jamais ce que je crois que je suis - et cela varie sans cesse, de sorte que souvent, si je n'étais là pour les accointer, mon être du matin ne reconnaîtrait pas celui du soir.
Rien ne saurait être plus différent de moi, que moi-même.
Mon cœur ne bat que par sympathie ; je ne vis que par autrui ; par procuration, pourrais-je dire, par épousaille, et ne me sens jamais vivre plus intensément que quand je m'échappe à moi-même pour devenir n'importe qui.
کتاب واقعا زیبا شروع میشه و پایان بسیار جذابی هم داره .کلا من خیلی ازش خوشم اومد ولی مشکل کتاب در ای
Frömmlerischer Schwulenschmalz*Achtung Rezi in Progress*Persönliche BefangenheitserklärungBin erst mal froh, dass ich's hinter mir habe, aber als Literaturfreund maßlos enttäuscht, auch wenn das Buch für die damalige Schwulen-Szene oder reife Freunde von Knaben, die sich im Dauerringkampf mit ihrem puritanisch-christlichen Erbe befanden, sicher der Brüller war.
Im Gegensatz zum sonst eher sinfonisch gestalteten traditionellen Roman, sollte Gide mit seinem reinen Roman so etwas wie ein kontrapunktisches Erzählwerk gelungen sein.Von daher war ich zumindest auf einige erzähltechnische Finessen gespannt.
Es sei denn, jemand empfindet die Montage von Tagebucheinträgen und Briefen als ungewöhnlich, mir erscheint das Buch aber in diesem Punkt eher den Traditionen des 18.
This is an extremely complex novel from this distinguished French author (1869-1951) who had apparently published over thirty books during his career.
I remember, though, being assigned “The Immoralist” to read in college, and was led to believe it was a novel.
Threads of the narrative, told by a writer who is trying to write a novel called “The Counterfeiters,” are dropped or not followed up.
Actually, Gide wrote a novel about a novelist who is writing a book about a novelist trying to write a book called “The Counterfeiters.” What Gide has done is to attack the conventions of the typical 19th century novel and shake up his readers.
I wonder if Gide is still assigned reading in school these days.
It's an odd book with crisscrossing themes and story lines.
But that search gets twisted in a hundred different directions, ending up only as strands heading in a general direction.
Consider these gems:"It very often suffices to add together a quantity of little facts which, taken separately, are very simple and very natural, to arrive at a sum which is monstrous.""...the greatest intelligence is precisely the one that suffers most from its own limitations."Like a Renaissance man, Gide's thoughts are learned and broad ranging, and yet clearly the book's predominant emphasis is on art, more specifically writing.
Read it to learn about art and writing?
Gide, instead of letting the plot twists and turns let the story flow as the characters lead them to, following their respective personalities and conflicts.
Which begs the question: how mcuh of it reflects Gide's life, at least in the time of writing?The form of the novel is unique, depending on which version you pick up.
So it follows, with Gide's journals, the book is about writing about writing about writing, among its many themes.
It does tend to get messy at times due to Gide's ambitions, but you should just press on.The English version translation I got out from my library (the only one) by Bussy wasn't great.
I mean it's a very long story about writing stories with a lot of characters and sometimes it feels that the line between what the character's are thinking and the what the author is thinking and what the author is thinking of the actual real novel is thin.
Maybe I can't fathom it because when I write I need to pre-plan most every important thing...It's a heavy read and still the writing style drags your eyes along the pages with force.
Maybe I will edit this later and make a clearer review when I will have studied the book in depth but I don't think there is a much deeper meaning.
The reputation of the Faux-Monnayeurs is that it is an experimental novel that succeeds only where it is conventional.
Gide's experimentation comes in the form of a magically real angel, multiple narrative points of view combined with more subplots and characters than would normally be considered prudent in a well-controlled work.At 19, I liked it because the author maintained a rapid pace and clearly had great affection for his characters.
Because Gide obviously knew the topic very well I felt that the Faux-Monnayeurs delivered great insight.I was stunned when an angel appeared in the novel to wrestle with Bernard as if he were Jacob.
بدت لي كأنها قنطرة بين كلاسيكية القرن التاسع عشر وتجريبية القرن العشرين!..القليل من كل شيء وبسلاسة ومهارة أصيلة..حكائية بلزاك لكن دون إغراقه في التفاصيل، تشريح زوﻻ اﻹجتماعي لكن دون سوداوية أو قساوة، مثالية هوغو/واقعية فلوبير!..كرواية أولى لجيد ﻻ بد وأنها حملت أثرا ﻷساليب العمالقة لكنه أيضا بث فيها الكثير من آراءه في اﻷدب والنقد بلسان إدوار أو بمذكراته!
استخدم جيد ضمير الراوي العليم والمذكرات بضمير المتكلم..كما أظهر فيها ميوله المثلية الشاذه لكن بأسلوب موارب!(بالطبع ﻻ يمكننا أن نجزم إن كانت المواربة أو التلميح نتيجة الترجمة أو أصالة من المؤلف الذي عرف عنه غرامه بالغلمان!)..العمل الثاني الذي أقرأه لجيد بعد الﻷخلاقي التي ﻻ أذكر الكثير منها غير انطباع بالرتابة والملل أثناء قراءتها لذلك سأعطيها أي اللأخلاقي نجمتين إلى أن تصادف قراءة ثانية أشك بها!
Au moment de sa parution, ce livre a été perçu, probablement, comme une révolution idéologique - le roman allait devenir une oeuvre même plus complèxe qui, au lieu de se concentrer seulement sur la simple réalité, soulignait tout d'abord la sensation de l'authentique.
De nos jours - presque cent ans après - "Les faux-monnayeurs" risque, parfois, d'ennuyer, de sembler trop long, ayant une action trop riche, décousue et difficile à suivre (des lettres, un journal intime etc).
Et, cependant, il crée une atmosphère unique où la vie litteraire (avec toutes ses facettes) est mise sur le premier plan, en restant toujours agréable à lire et à relire...
Ah, God bless the French!
(I wonder if it's the first time anyone has ever written that.)I happen to love French writers and, thusly prejudiced, found this book by Andre Gide to be exceptional.
A fascinating novel of interlocking characters and their crisscrossing story lines that is widely considered a precursor of the nouveau roman.Relationships of every variety are explored: straight, homosexual, parent/child, bastardy, extra-martial, you name it; a counterfeit coin subplot symbolic of the real self vs.
the false; and a fairly chilling suicide by peer-pressure angle - nearly a century before the infamous suicide by MySpace hoax!If you can handle the French, give it a look.
Two rival writers, Edouard and Robert, fall for the same impressionable young boy, Olivier, who decides to run off with Robert, the more famous and less honorable of the two.
Edouard, a kind of stand-in for Gide, is Olivier's "uncle" (through marriage), and in the loss of his beloved nephew opts instead of his schoolfriend, Bernard.
Robert, the "comte" who drags Olivier to the dark side, is painted as a kind of Wildean figure, which is interesting given the friendship shared between Wilde and Gide.
It's only when Olivier realizes he needs to abandon Robert and side himself with a more modernistic writer like his uncle that he is safe.
Gide also challenges novelistic norms at the time by changing perspectives, which he describes in his appendix as an innovative attempt to directly involve the reader in piecing together real events from multiple subjective first-person narratives.
This novel may have been controversial and significant in its time, particularly in regards to its unique stylistic exposition and the obvious homosexuality of most of the characters, but I do not think it is a novel "for all ages" as Gide might have wished.
In conclusion, it's more of a "slice of life" narrative rather than a novel, and although Gide has moments of clever insights, in the end the story will likely leave the reader under-served.
Now author wants to write for the future, and i guess, write a classic, so that say someone in the 21st century, in another country, would read his book and think it says something to them, and that all the garbage written then in France, now in usa, etc is just that, now worth reading, not worth keeping or thinking about."An insight, composed of sympathy, which would enable us to be in advance of the seasons---is this denied us?
What are the problems which will exercise the minds of to-morrow?
To provide food for curiosities still unformed, to satisfy requirements not yet defined, so that the child of to-day may be astonished to-morrow to find me in his past".
Tôi những tưởng là do sự khác biệt về văn hóa & thời đại giữa tôi với cuốn sách nên tôi mới không thể nào "hiểu" được tâm sự của các nhân vật nhưng thử xem lại thời điểm sáng tác thì, cuốn này được viết vào đầu thế kỷ 20, tính ra là muộn hơn Kẻ lãng du của Alain - Fournier mấy chục năm, ấy thế mà cảm giác lúc đọc hoàn toàn khác nhau (dù tôi cũng chả thấy Kẻ lãng du là hay)Đây là cuốn sách hiếm hoi mà tôi không ưa tất cả nhân vật, từ chính diện đến phản diện, từ kép chính cho đến vai phụ.
For young middle class French gay people they sure do lead boring lives
Εκπληκτικό βιβλίο. Ούτε μια λέξη περιττή. Εισχωρεί με την ακρίβεια χειρουργού στις συμπεριφορές των χαρακτήρων του, στο αίτιο και αιτιατό.
Readers wanting a frank look at gay sex are referred to Death on the Installment Plan, where Celine’s two or three shocking vignettes on the subject have never been outdone.
But the transitional nature of the story is interesting.
The author pushes the story beyond innuendo without going as far as Celine would a decade later.How much the book scandalized people at the time I don‘t know.
I appreciated the superior content, and I fell in easily with the book's transitional nature, imagining Gide as an artist caught between genres.
«[...]δεν γνωρίζουμε τις ιδέες παρά μόνο μέσω των ανθρώπων, όπως ακριβώς αντιλαμβανόμαστε τον άνεμο απ’τις καλαμιές που λυγίζουν. Όμως, παρ’όλα αυτά, ο άνεμος παρουσιάζει μεγαλύτερο ενδιαφέρον απ’ ό,τι οι καλαμιές»
Tiene un formato muy inusual, trata sobre la escritura de un libro que se llama Los Monederos Falsos, es decir, es una novela dentro de una novela, y el personaje principal, Eduardo, mueve la trama a través de borradores de la historia, entradas de su diario y reflexiones acerca de su desarrollo.
Hay una historia secundaria que tiene que ver con unos estudiantes parisinos que se encargan de estafar por medio de unas monedas falsas, y que me parece le sirve a Gide (Eduardo) para simbolizar su argumento principal: “empiezo a entrever lo que yo llamaría el ‘tema profundo’ de mi libro.
Segunda leitura: 18 de jul a (?) de ago.
de 2016 (*****)Primeira leitura: 26 - 29 de out.
de 2014 (*****)Ler "Diário dos Moedeiros Falsos" simultaneamente a "Os Moedeiros Falsos" foi uma experiência borgiana.
Curioso como de início parece que Gide escreve no diário coisas sobre um livro completamente diferente do que estamos lendo, como observamos certas intenções sendo suplantadas, algumas se reduzindo, outras se ampliando, à medida que a ordem dos capítulos vai sendo alterada.
Gide é estiloso, esmera-se nas nuances: narra com primor até um detalhe ínfimo como uma queda de cadeira.
Lần đầu tiên đọc xong một cuốn sách mà héo hắt cả người.Mấy ngày sau mặt mũi bơ phờ nhìn vào gương bỗng nhiên chợt nhận ra, có thể vì mình đọc quá nhiều sách cùng một lúc, có thể vì công việc nhiều đến nỗi thở không ra hơi, nhưng cũng rất có thể vì cuốn sách này đã khiến người mình quắt quéo lại, như vắt kiệt sức lực để đọc cho đến cùng.Cuốn sách có ý nghĩa như vậy đã được đọc vào dịp tôi vừa tròn 26 tuổi thôi.
Cái tuổi chẳng biết gì nhưng cũng đủ biết mình chẳng biết gì.
