https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261670.Enemy_Brothers
Ah, that was sweet!
We see the majority of the events in the book from Max/Tony’s perspective as he and the reader discover the truth about his identity.It was interesting to see this story from the perspective of a young boy who was raised in the Nazi ideology as he dealt with being made to live in an English home with people who claimed to be his real family.
:P)The rest of the family, while not quite so patient as Dym, were interesting characters too, and I think Constance Savery did an excellent job making them distinct individuals and also showing creating realistic relationship dynamics.Another thing I liked that I wasn’t expecting were the subtle themes of discerning and choosing between truth and lies, and good overcoming evil.
*happy sigh* Well, that was lovely! Everything from the beautiful English dialogue, to the heartwarming story, to the adorable characters. This is a book that makes me wish Goodreads had a 10 star button . . . or 10 trillion stars. I love this book! I wish I had known of this amazing author when I was younger. (Although they're just as amazing reading them now.) Highly recommended for all ages, and all peoples!
One false move, one harsh word, could destroy all hope of Tony's being saved.The tumultuous story that follows is one of loyalty and betrayal; home and family; truth and lies; redemption against all odds; and sacrificial love that will go to the ends of the earth to find the lost soul and bring it back to the light.Written in the midst of World War II, before America joined the Allies, when Britain still stood alone against the forces of darkness, this book is a bright and powerful picture of what it was like on the home front during the war, of the people and ideologies of Germany and England, and of the courageous, strong, determined people who held on to hope and fought against all odds for the side of the light.
We need more stories about those kinds of love - more stories like this one.Interesting that although the story is told from Tony's perspective, his observations of Dym, and situations they'd find themselves in, revealed a lot about Dym's deeply passionate and protective nature and his private emotions toward finally finding his lost little brother.
The mentioning here of there of fairies, flowers, poetry and tea added charm and English culture to the everyday lives and interests of the family, especially as they struggled to make ends meet in the midst of apathy and war.Tony's fierce childlike adoration for his big brother was precious.
I still am fond of Dym; but this story is exhausting me and I don't like feeling exhausted.
I guess that Constance Savery and I just have very different ideas about how to structure a story.
(ALSO, may I just point out: Savery's claim that the British RAF is morally superior to the Nazi Luftwaffe specifically because they "don't deliberately target civilians in their bombing campaigns" is completely unfounded.
Look, I get that she's probably just repeating British government propaganda when she says "oh we don't do that" .
but she's constantly chiding Tony for accepting Nazi propaganda, so I'm not inclined to be very sympathetic there.)
Dym and Tony, guys...
*sniffles and grins and happy sighs* <33 Suffice it to say, I enjoyed Enemy Brothers, my first novel by Constance Savery.
I read one hundred and eighty-seven pages in almost one sitting.
AND I *cough* liked Tony...almost the whole time...
*cough* BUT DYM.
*nods knowingly along with every other human who has read this* AND THE ENDING.
LIKE NO.
*happy sighs again*RECOMMENDED.*hugs it and prepares to send it back to my friend who lent it to me* *hints very un-sneakily that said-friend is the wonderful Sarah Grace* *grins at her* THANKS, GIRL.
If you are any sort of a reader of WWII era fiction, then I highly advise you add it to your collection.
Enemy Brothers is the story of a German boy trapped in England during WWII, who discovers that everything that he believed about himself, Germany, and life is about to be turned upside down.
And the most amazing thing - in my opinion, at least - is that it was written and published in England before the war was over by an author who didn't know if the Allied forces were going to be victorious or not.I've read this book countless times over the past few years.
And felt...just so right.I just absolutely loved the way the Ingleford family was portrayed.
Although I often wanted to see more (of just about everyone), I felt like I understood so much about them just from the little bits of information and interaction that we had.
And also the subtle way that his siblings (even the ones he wasn't particularly close to) still somehow felt closer than the cousins, who were still closer than the random evacuees in the house.
And the way that his heart clung to Dym even when his mind was furious with him...
Good and pleasant--it has a lot of warmth to it. Nice book.
ohhhh five times or more??) Definitely one of my favorite books of all time.I won't go over all the main points of the story as others have already covered, but I'll just say that when I read it for the first time, I expected it to be more of a mystery as to Max/Tony's identity.
The author, Constance Savery, has an amazing ability to create characters that are immensely intriguing and believable.
Dymory, the older brother, is one of the most amazing literary characters in any book I have read.
Go read this book!!!!
Now an officer in the RAF, he can no longer take his search into war-torn Germany where he believes Tony, who would now be 12 years old, to have been taken.But unexpected circumstances bring Max Eckermann into England, instead, where Dym identifies him as his lost little brother and takes him home.Max is a 'thorough-going little Nazi', in the words of Dym's brother, Ginger Ingleford.
You meet the young men of the RAF, 'The cream of the youth of England', who - outgunned, undermanned and exhausted - continue the fight.From the lively, fun-loving Ingleford family to Dym's RAF friends to the very passengers in the trains, the characters in this book are believable, life-like, and worthy of emulation.
What a very peculiar plot! But the chapter with Blake's "Jerusalem" and "Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken" and "the glory of God covering the earth as the waters cover the sea" was quite worth the whole book.
I have absolutely LOVED all the Constance Savery books I have read. She has a knack for creating turnaround plots and her characters are works of art. I have not found another author who writes like her, which is disappointing, because she's SO good! This is an EXCELLENT book for anyone.
To be honest, this is one of Constance Savery's best. I've read this more than once, and it was only topped by her book, "The Reb and The Redcoats"! I love her work, and for anyone who wants good, English stories with lovable characters, and moral-building situations, I recommend her highly!
I think that I may have just been in kind of an off mood when I read it, or else because it is probably geared toward a younger audience (I would consider it a YA book).
It was interesting to get a glimpse of day-to-day life in England during World War II.
This book could probably be considered partially propaganda, but it's not ever at the expense of the plot.
I think there is a good balance (and of course, the propaganda is all stuff I agree with.
Overall, this is a good book.
This wonderful author, Constance Savery, is scarcely available on today's book shelves, because she wrote from a Christian perspective.
Savery had the very rare talent of making us want to read more about a good person (as opposed to a 'good guy' whose mission is to defeat 'bad guys').
Fortunately, Enemy Brothers has found a niche among home-schooled children and their parents, where it is not unusual to read the opinion: "The best book I ever read!" This is the sort of book that one keeps to read again, and rather than risk losing your copy, the book you lend is one you bought for exactly that purpose.
I stayed up until about three in the morning reading this.
I loved it.
Especially Dym, of course.I especially liked the "in freedom's cause" conversation that tied in Blake's "Jerusalem", Isaiah 11:9, and "Glorious Things of Thee are Spoken".While I was reading it, I couldn't help thinking that in a way, christians are all kind of in Tony's situation - we've been kidnapped back from the wrong side, refusing to let go of the "Balmung" sword and take up "Chrysaor".
I may have to re-read it with that in mind sometime.
I read this when I was about twelve. Then I read it again another eight times, but I have no idea why this book affected me like no other. I would highly recommend this book to young teens and teenagers, although I wonder how may would be interested in WWII in this day and age.
Words can't express how much I love this book, the characters, the plot, the hero. It probably has something to do with how a loving family wins over the heart of a bitter boy. Or maybe it has to do with Dym....he's such a true man!
Amazing book. One of my favorite singles.
good lightweight story--during WW II in England
LOVED IT!!!!
Another great book. What an imagination! You also get a dose of history & a better understanding of WW2 in England. Reread many times.
Read it for school, it was my favorite book of the year.
I loved this book! It is about two brothers during World War II.
Maybe in 1943 you could write a novel where the sympathetic protagonist is a member of the Nazi youth but it doesn’t work—for me at least—right now.
A great book.
Enemy Brothers is a story that takes place against the backdrop of WWII, but it's a story that is fundamentally about family, and about the power of love (not romantic, in this instance) to save us.
I could believe that Max might slowly come to realize that Dym might be right after all, because of the way he and the other Ingleford interacted.I said at the beginning that this is also a book about how love can save us.
And yet, I didn't feel like Dym was necessarily too good to be true--though Max is certainly the one that provides the excitement in the story!Finally, any WWII story I read at the moment will inevitably be compared to Code Name Verity.
Some of us felt that the book took a long time to tell certain things. It was read aloud to ages 12,10,and 8. They listened attentively and shelled pecans. :)I found myself taking lots of breaks to explain various British phrases and old war terms, but that's part of the fun to me. The author wrote this book in 1943!
