https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7695.Holy_the_Firm
Dillard spent over a year crafting these seventy-six pages, even though the observations they record took place over only three days.
Some scholars suspected Dillard of being high while writing this book, and I can well see why: the language is so elevated, the tone so enthusiastic, and the dialectic between head and heart so amplified, that she seems to have spun out of this earth's orbit entirely.
The questions crystallize into story, and Dillard's energetic self seizes upon the exterior world as a metaphor for her inner life.
Day Two, November 19, "God's Tooth." A small plane falls to the earth, hits the ground, fuel explodes.
She names it Terror, the Farthest Limb of the Day, God's Tooth.Day Three, Friday, November 20, "Holy the Firm." Here is a thought, while reading about Esoteric Christianity.
Dillard holds on to these ideas, by the single handful, of the Absolute, in touch with Holy the Firm, at its base, the latter in touch with everything, even those which appears senseless, seeing all the possibilities for the young child Julie Norwich: dead, alive and consecrated to God, or living a fairly normal life like everyone else.
I still love this book as much as I did first time around. Beautifully written with much to ponder! Best nature spiritual book ever!
She opens "Every day is a god, each day is a god, and holiness holds forth in time." She goes through an intense bending of language and reality, an almost surreal and poisoned optimism.
I think this is one that could be read over and over, as one might a poem, perhaps with some reverence.Some more quotes:On bringing communion wine:
I bear holiness splintered into a vessel, very God of very God, the sempiternal science personal and brooding, bright on the back of my ribs.
I know this sounds (and is) vague, but this is a book about EVERYTHING, written with poetic economy, concrete images, and, I imagine, some kind of grace.
Dillard reflects on what it means to be an artist (it's being a nun, being a moth on fire, being a little girl burned, being a tired, burnt out writer), and in the process takes on time, mortality, and fury at the spitefulness of God, while trying, again and again, to move towards some kind of peace, all at the edge of the North American continent, the Puget Sound.
Just a "wow" kind of a book, and, according to Dillard, her best.
I’m a big fan of any book that makes references to Julian of Norwich
Dillard writes of her time spent in a one-room shack on an island in Puget Sound in northeast Washington with "one enormous window, one cat, one spider, and one person".
She strives well to portray a vision of the world creating itself and reaches toward a conception of the "Absolute" as something present at the most fundamental levels of matter, time, and space, which she calls "Holy the Firm".
But "These are only ideas, by the single handful" and "What can any artist set on fire but his world?
What can an artist use but materials, such as they are?" This book will linger in my mind for a long time.
This is one of the most beautiful books I've ever read.
Get on with it already!') This book is for people who enjoy the trip, not the destination.
This is a book you meditate about rather than understand.
Don't let the slight appearance fool you.So many of the images have stayed with me over the years: the moth scene, Julie Norwich.
These scenes are so well written, that they reach the level of incantations.
An awe-inspiring book.
One must experience her writing to see that, truly, using words in unique combination allows her to express ideas in a way no one else ever has.
One suspects that laughter may be both Dillard's way of expressing joy as well as a substitute for her tears.
Welcome again to the land of the living, to time, this hill of beans.""I often think of the set pieces of liturgy as certain words which people have successfully addressed to God without their getting killed.""There are no events but thoughts and the heart's hard turning, the heart's slow learning where to love and whom.
When I first read this book my heart had been deeply stirred by a compelling desire to experience God in his wild, untamed attributes, knowing that the experience would be terrifying and purifying.
It was then that my deep desire was birthed to spend at least one year in the Pacific Northwest where I would experience the gray, windy, blustery, wet winter that only the Pacific Northwest knows.
I have experienced the wild fury of God in ways that make me tremble and make me wish for a tamer God. Yet somehow I know deep inside that a tamer God than our Lord Christ would not be powerful enough for me.
"Nothing is going to happen in this book.
There is only a little violence here and there in the language, at the corner where eternity clips time."- pg.
20"Esoteric Christianity, I read, posits a substance.
It is a created substance, lower than metals and minerals on a 'spiritual dcale,' and lower than salts and earths, occurring beneath salts and earths in the waxy deepness of planets, but never on the surface of planets where men could discern it; and it is in touch with the Absolute, at base.
In touch with the Absolute!
At base.
The name of this substance is: Holy the Firm."- pg.
This is heady, abstract, concrete, brilliant, and beautiful. At times I feel the essayist has meandered away from her readers, but I am happy trying to follow.
In my top ten all-time favorites. Dillard's prose is haunting. Moths have never seemed the same since.
Her little book, consisting of less than eighty pages, is a thoughtful and sometimes intense investigation into the soul.
But behind that mask of the unpleasant, there is profound cheer at the transformation of the perception, of soul development, and yes, of course, of the logical, humanistic and psychological plain of thought processing, filtering and transforming.
The essay, in no uncertain terms, conveys a kind of WOW factor that says, I don't really know how this whole thing operates, but isn't it amazing nonetheless?
Holiness is under a rock, in people, in nature, in moments (good and bad), one giant gelatinous glob with so many tags and definitions attached to it.
But the world is in endless motion, our lives refuse stillness.
How can we keep this taste on our tongues without reduction and abstraction?So, like Isaiah with coal touched lips, Annie Dillard writes, she writes about the mountains and the sea of Puget Sound, she writes in movements, with a building sense of motion, simple sights become oddly hinged, almost wrecked.
She writes about random violence, a plane crashes, a little girl's face is badly burned.
And she writes, finally, incredibly, about God and her desire to worship him.
And by 'jammed to the gills' I mean that by the time you are a few pages in you can not help but see how she has already begun to knit words together so that everything references at least one other thing in the book as well, if not three other things.
Water, land, time, eternity, salt, wax, trees, and fire burning with or without light.In the first reading I thought it was pretty, a brightly colored creature.
Then the second reading stung me like brightly colored creatures are prone to do.
Yesterday I felt like going to the Arboretum and reading some Annie Dillard, so I chose this book and a lovely maple to sit by and enjoyed both very much.
I won't explain here what this book is about, because finding out what it is about was part of what made this short book so enjoyable.
Dillard wrote this book while she was living in Puget Sound and, like in Pilgrim at Tinker Creek, writes a clever mixture of reflections on nature, God, and various fascinating facts that she has read about the world and/or philosophy.
I recommend it as a good afternoon or short vacation read.
From what I understand, it is based on a real event, but Dillard names her child Julie Norwich; her mother's name is Anne.
Thus the child is Julie of Anne Norwich.
When she asked what it was, he replied "it is everything that was made." Thus God is outside time and views all things from all angles; "He's got the whole world in His hands." Julianne of Norwich also said "All will be well, and all manner of things will be well." Probably you should read this book.
In brief, this book is one case where I'd urge readers of this review to go find more interesting reviews of it to read, I imagine this one has spawned passionate comments from thousands of readers and writers.
The beginning two sentences read like a revelation: "Every day is a god, each day is a god, and holiness holds forth in time.
The curious thing is that the book itself reads like an extended poem, or a prose poem, and I don't know how it can be categorized.
I read this much too fast and will read it again soon.I feel like Dillard's work, and this book in particular, is to writing what impressionism is to painting.
Must be I am trying to sell my favorite authors tonight, but I feel like this one would be a decent taste of Dillard for those who can't quite get into her otherwise: short, enough rewarding images and accessible passages to make it worth it.I love this, about 10 pages in, out of nowhere and it's own paragraph:"Nothing is going to happen in this book.
I am not religious, but I think people who are must find a great deal of comfort in this book.
Dillard rages and then raves about god - his beauty and creations, his pain and his suffering - and most of all, asks why.
That said, and ignoring my slight confusion on the recommendation of this book to me, I did find Day 1 to be the most enjoyable.
I like to find beauty in ordinary moments, and Dillard is a master at appreciating a day and the (extra)ordinary moments it can bring.
Written during Dillard's stay on an island in Puget Sound, this short collection covers familiar territory: faith, nature, mystery.
But also anger, injustice, and our collective obsession with The West."When I first came here I faced east and watched the mountains...since they are, incredibly, east, I must be no place at all.
But the sun rose over the snowfields and woke me where I lay, and I rose and cast a shadow over someplace, and thought, There is, God help us, more...and turning my head, as it were, I moved to face west, relinquishing all hope of sanity, for what is more.
I'm happy reading Annie Dillard just for the words most of the time, but this book asks difficult questions about pain and about the presence of God in the world. It's probably her least focused book (other than Pilgrim At Tinker Creek), not surprising since it's only her second, but it got down inside me somehow and I haven't been the same since.
Beautiful lyric essay on God, life, suffering, holiness and humanity. So many sentences & paragraphs to re-read. Dillard reclined and pouncing in syncopated rhythm. Just try to keep pace!
I can't figure out if this book inspires me to write, or makes me want to quit because it appears the English language has already peaked.
Love her writing, but not the Christian god aspect of this one.
There is no one to send, nor a clean hand, nor a pure heart on the face of the earth, nor in the earth, but only us, a generation comforting ourselves with the notion that we have come at an awkward time, that our innocent fathers are all dead--as if innocence had ever been--and our children busy and troubled, and we ourselves unfit, not yet ready, having each of us chosen wrongly, made a false start, failed, yielded to impulse and the tangled comfort of pleasures, and grown exhausted, unable to seek the thread, weak and involved.
A powerful, too-brief essay reflecting on the presence, and absence, of God in the midst of suffering. It reads like a long, beautiful poem, that reminds us of our own accountability for pain and that there is so much to draw us into God.
This is more of a sermon than a book, but it's intensely beautiful and thought-provoking. Some sections were too figurative for a first read, but I love Dillard's prose, depth of thought, and spiritual insight, and can't wait to revisit. If anyone will make you want to run away to a remote island and commit to the writer's life in all its vagaries, it's her.
I’ve been taking this book in bites like communion wafers. It’s so good. The beauty of language and depth of complexity here captures both the mystery and the mess of the created world. Lovely and rich.
