https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/476550.Betsy_and_the_Boys
I first discovered this delightful novel as a young student at Windsor Elementary School.
Heck, all these years later, I still remember the name of the first chapter, “Pancakes and Cream Puffs.” I guess I really liked this one as a kid.Anyway, this is Betsy’s story.
In the fourth grade and full of spunk, Betsy wants to play football with the boys.
She also wants to make pancakes and cream puffs with her pal, Billy Porter.
And there’s also a strange misunderstanding involving boys and valentines.It’s all very innocent and sweet.
It is just as good as I had remembered it to be.
I rarely give five stars, I remember reading what I called in elementary school, "The Betsy Books" over and over again.
No one should 'expect' this book to speak to today's children, however, I think reading it can teach children today what life was like decades before they were born.
I just liked the way Carolyn Haywood tells her stories.I love these books and am a little disappointed that our local library only has a few.
I think if as adults we do not become so critical of books that we believe are "outdated" and comment on that, kids may just read these books and other classics and glean something from them.
I'll give it 3 stars if this is a read aloud to a child 8 or younger. By the time most 21st century children read well enough to pick this up on their own it would be too simplistic and dated.
Fun, sweet book from my childhood. It was good to reread it.
Lizzie: I didn't like this as well as the other Betsy books I have read. This one seemed to end at a weird part, like it would be finished in a later book.
Betsy and the Boys follows the daily lives of Betsy and her best friend Billy as they cook, attend school, enjoy Valentine's Day, prepare for a play, wash dogs and play football.
And Betsy searches for a way to play football with the boys.
(Don’t get me wrong, this book doesn’t completely deconstruct gender stereotypes—the parents seem to embody traditional gender roles and Betsy *SPOILER* is subtly directed away from playing football)Betsy and the Boys shares the experiences of everyday middle class (white!) suburban experience.
16).“Who ever heard of a girl on a football team?“Girls can do anything,” said Betsy.
Betsy and Billy learn their new teacher has an odd name that they can hardly say without laughing: Spoiler: it's Miss Pancake!
And the teacher tells her class she knows it's funny and laughs along with the children.Other chapters include stories about Valentine's Day, foul-smelling flea soap, dog bathing fundraising efforts in order to buy a football, birthday party, misunderstanding between friends, Betsy's wish to be included in the boys' football play, a Christmas party with a performance by the children, and youngsters being rescued by fire fighters from a bathroom they can't unlock.
That Betsy isn't as innocent as I thought, plus she's starting to play mind games, and make decisions based on emotions instead of facts. No, Betsy, no! Her subversive behavior is also drawing in the riffraff. If you don't believe me, check out the chapter about Valentine's day. Some kid left a package of severed fish heads wrapped up like a valentine on her porch! I don't want to give too much away, but she did conspire with a policeman in this story.Betsy, you need to turn it around, girl! It's not too late. Or is it?SMH, SMH.
I Liked Betsy and the boys they had A Christmas and the fairies got stuck in the bathroom since they Locked them themselves in the bathroom and couldn't unlock it
Betsy just wants to be like one of the guys. But when it comes to lying to Billy, she does. READ BETSY AND THE BOYS!!!!!
Read this with Annie...such a cute book! Great book for little girls!
I liked it. She gets a football to keep from the boys so she can join the football team. And she does, then she gets ice skates so she goes ice skating instead.
