https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/486695.Storm_Warning
This was one of the things that pulled me so firmly into the story - I didn't just care about the people, I cared about their boats and I shared their awe, respect, love and fear of the sea and the wind.Each chapter begins with an excerpt from the Captain's log of the Deutschland, these provided you with a date and time for the beginning of the chapter and helped you keep up with the passage of time as well as gave you a feel for conditions on the journey.What I Didn't Like: There were a couple of times near the start where I found myself losing interest because of all the jumping around but once all the different characters were established that quickly ceased to be an issue.I had a bit of trouble discerning between two of the female characters at times, mostly because they were called Jane and Janet and often in the same scenes.
From what I can recall, the hero in this book, Korvettenkapitän Paul Gericke, was a bit of a stereotype on legs amongst Higgins' characters.
Higgins had this penchant for writing superbly efficient yet cocky as all hell German war heroes, and this one was the Kriegsmarine's pride in a small bottle.
He ends up with his submarine in trouble during a storm that sinks a ship carrying German expatriates from Brazil to the homeland, and is captured on a remote location in Britain, where he gets to meet an American woman with whom there's plenty of tension with a vaguely romantic undertone.
This is my own favourite.I have read this many times and it still keeps me interested.A real page turner.
The Three-masted barquentine Deutschland originally built by Hamish Campbell on the Clyde in 1881 and now owned by the Brazilian firm of Mayer Brothers as a coastal trader between Rio and Belem, was captained and crewed by German expatriates, washed up on the Brazilian coast since the commencement of World War II.
A war has two sides, a multitude of battles, and infinite numbers of individual conflicts.
Both sides of the conflict are presented on a personal level, without prejudice, discrimination, or bigotry.
Almost all works by Jack Higgins have been reissued many times; this story hasn’t.
I picked up ‘Storm Warning’ and it is pure Higgins vintage, with all the greatness that brings, but also some of the flaws.
Yes, it is World War Two again, but this time we are on a sail ship full of Germans looking to get back home from Brazil before the war ends.The book is at its best when cranking up the tension.
You know with a title like ‘Storm Warning’ that things are not going to be sure-sailing throughout and Higgins does a good job of developing some of the characters and makes you wonder what their fate will be.
The other side, the ship story had nothing particularly interesting either, considering they reached till Hebrides without any major hindrances and for the sake of it, there was a pointless romantic sub-plot between a sailor and a young nun (who is yet to take the pledge).This is neither a great adventure story nor an amazing story based on the Second World War barring the climax and I don't think it is worth reading the whole book for the sake of a reasonably built climax which otherwise simply goes back and forth with too many characters that I was unable to keep track of more than five (on both the plots) beyond a point.To conclude, I would rate this book a two on five, which could have been lower had it not been for the last hundred pages.
(I love WWII stories.) I also have read a few books by Jack Higgins before and liked them, so I knew that there'd be a good chance I'd like this one too.
It was different to what I expected it to be, but that's not a bad thing at all.
It was different, like I said and i liked it because of that.
I really felt a lot of the time as though I was on a storm-tossed ship!
:D So even though it wasn't what I expected, I know I will be reading this again another time.
WWII novel about a group of German sailors and nuns sailing an ancient sailing vessel from Brazil to the Scottish island of Fahda in an attempt to reach the Fahdaland. (I could not help myself.) Lots of nautical terms that you almost mead a dictionary to get through. The real protagonist in this story is the weather. It seems to rain every day of their journey. There is an interesting mix of German, British and American characters and their interactions. I'm a slow reader, but I read the book in one day. Very exciting finale.
RDC-M, V. 5-76, @ 76, Read 1/87. Germany is the destination of a 19th century wooden sailing vessel, that in 1944, leaves a Brazilian port and begins a perilous journey across thousands of miles of allied controlled ocean. 4 *'s = Very Good.
Definitely not what I was expecting. I was expecting a WWII thriller and got a rescue mission in bad weather. However, Higgins definitely tells a good story. So in this case the unexpected was a good thing.
This book was written with the world war two. It has good thoughts on interaction with prisoner's and how people adjusted and kept faith. For it's time period it was a good in presenting the war at sea, although I wouldn't call it a true war story.
Loved this storyGreat BookOne of my favorites
Old book (copyright 1976). Good read.
Fantastic story, gritty, well told.
An excellent tale of multiple groups of people, American, English, & German during the end of WWII. Told in small snippets of each group until they start coming together during a hurricane.
Despite the best efforts of the blurb, this isn't a war thriller at all, but rather a seafaring book in which the WW2 background is used to increase the stakes and tension throughout.
There's quite a large cast of diverse characters, all of whom seem to be drawn from real life, despite them occasionally slipping into cliche at times.
Attitudes towards women are still rather sexist (along the lines of "go and make the tea, dear, and let the men talk") but then you'd expect that from the 1960s era.There isn't a great deal of incident in this descriptive book, but things certainly pick up for an extended disaster-themed climax, which is well worth the wait.
No time for a whole review but wanted to add that the descriptions of ship life and the especially the storms made me feel as if I were there.
In fact, after reading the novel, I was caught in a bad rain on a narrow road.
My breath caught and I felt like a tidal wave was overwhelming me.
I think I may have even shut my eyes (bad idea, while driving.) Afterward, I wondered at my scare and it seemed obvious Higgins Storm Warning was still in my head as if I were right there on the old three-masted ship.
What a great read.
It took me a few tries to get this started, as I wasn't fan of war books.
But on a holiday weekend I took this with me and read it up in 3 days.
I used to read Jack Higgins quite a bit back when I first started fiction.
He was a good writer for a beginner like me back then, more gritty then Archer.
but slowly moved away when I discovered other writers.
This books takes a while to get started, but once it does it doesn't stop rolling.
The ending' a bit predictable, but nonetheless superbly crafted action novel.
I must admit to being a fan of Higgins, probably happened many years ago after reading the book "The Eagle has Landed" when I was in High School or Uni. They made a movie of that book which wasn't too bad either.Anyway, so I haven't read any Higgins for awhile and I was quite impressed with this bargin bin find along with another of his books called "The Valhalla Exchange". I probably enjoyed the other book more as it too was set at the end of WW11.Higgins doesn't dissappoint, definately worth reading!
Buku cerita fiksi, berlatar belakang Perang Dunia Kedua. Lokasi di suatu pulau terpencil di Atlantik Utara. Ceritanya tentang perubahan sikap orang-orang yang terlibat dalam perang pada saat suatu bahaya lain yang mengancam orang-orang tak bersalah muncul. Kedua belah pihak yang tadinya bermusuhan berbalik menjadi bekerja sama untuk menyelamatkan penumpang kapal layar yang diserang badai, meskipun untuk itu mereka harus mempertaruhkan nyawa mereka.Bagus nih buku.. Lebih bagus lagi karena gak ada cerita roman-romannya.
At the end of WWII, some German sailors stationed in Brazil decide to sail an old boat back to Germany - they can foresee that they will lose the war and want to be home when it happens. They take a few nuns with them. Storms rage across the Pacific and the boat is more and more damaged but they approach Scotland when they hit a reef. Rescuers from a small village attempt to save them, not knowing they are the enemy. Quite exciting ending.
if you like a good sea adventure then this is a good book for you. Although the build up was fairly slow the action comes thick and fast towards the end! well worth a read.
I have just finished reading this extremely good book. The 80% or so was fairly good as the author brought all the pieces together, but the last 20% was so very exciting as the hurricane winds bore down on all the characters. Heroic action by a very diverse group brought the story to a very exciting conclusion. I highly recommend it, especially for those who love tales of the sea.
Well-written action drama novel with a curious historical twist. An easy read which i could not put down so read it over the course of a couple of days. Will be reading more from this author based on this one.
Good WW2 Jack Higgins novel. Interesting because it's more of a sea story than a thriller. As usual Higgins trots out some of his stock characters (the english educated good german officer, the harvard educated MTB boat captain, someone spouting inane philosophy about needing to confront death to be truly alive) but at least they're in a different sort of situation to those he usually uses.
I was rather surprised how much I enjoyed this book, and I was quite sad as to the fate in the end for some of the characters. That just shows how much I came to care about them. This was my first Higgins book and I'm willing to read another one.
I thought from page one it was a good read but the last forty pages were a wonderful race to the end. Well written, informative without boring me, and multiple storylines that converged very nicely at the end. Good Book!
A great book for those who love/hate war sea u-boats storms etc... this book really puts us in the middle of a storm in an angry ocean and among those who struggle to survive both war and natureI really recommend this book it's a real page Turner....
Sad ending to a great story
This book was well enough written, but I didn't like the ending of the ending of the story at all.
