https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7998.Outcast_of_Redwall
Outcast of RedwallOutcast of Redwall is another book in the Redwall series written for children by the late Brian Jacques, but also read by many adults too including me.
However it isn’t absolutely necessary as each one can be read on its own too.Running alongside the continuing battles between these two there are two more plot lines both of them relating to Veil who is Swartt Sixclaw's son.
They are easy reads because of the age groups they are written for, but have enough bite in the plots to be enjoyed by all ages if you like animal stories.
nurture debate, and the vermin namesake of the book is seen as an irredeemably evil character, even when he's just a baby.
What kind of kid are Redwallers expecting to raise when their first reactions to an abandoned baby ferret are along the lines of "I don't like the looks of this one.
It'll be evil, mark my words."Great, Brian Jacques.
Just because someone looks different, they must be evil.
Veil (the ferret) really doesn't get much page time in this book anyway.
A young stoat is taken in by the saintly woodland creatures of Redwall, who raise him as best they can.
The story follows several Redwall creatures as they go off on their own adventure; eventually they encounter the earstwhile stoat once more, who has joined with a band of ruffians.
Fighting ensues, and the stoat throws himself into the path of an arrow to save his foster-mother.
Because, you see, he didn't *really* mean to save her--he was just acting impulsively as always.
WTF?Years later, just thinking about the unfairness of this book drives me to clench my fists with rage.
I have never read another Redwall book.
To the adventurous pretties,The end of this Redwall book was particularly sad to me. While previous books have had really happy atmospheres. Que reading slump. The end was left neutral, and felt precarious. That's all for today. Ta-ta,shizuku
There were several unlikable characters (Bryony comes to mind), the philosophy of "all of carnivora is EEEEVVIILLLL, except badgers and otters for some reason, and that one cat from Mossflower" continued unchecked, despite the potential in the title, and despite the title, Veil got almost no actual presence.
Partly this was due to the fact that I already knew it would take up a good half of the book, and partly because I find badgers to be one of the more interesting species in the Redwall universe.
I enjoyed Swartt a lot more in 5th grade, probably because I couldn't recognize the fact that he was completely interchangeable with any other Redwall villain.
A young badger is held captive by an evil ferret, Swartt Sixclaw.
The badger and Skarlath help each other escape, but not before the badger seriously wounds the ferret warlord.
Skarlath names the badger Sunflash, and together they journey through Mossflower, helping those in need and making friends along the way.
But Swartt Sixclaw has vowed to avenge his wounded paw, and builds an army to find and defeat Sunflash.
Back at Redwall Abbey, the peaceful creatures take in an orphaned baby ferret, unbeknownst to them, the only son of Swartt Sixclaw.
Mr. Jacques had a great opportunity here, to take one of his traditionally "evil" creatures and let him be a good guy.
And Veil does try, through most of the story, to be good.
But no, in the end his evil side wins out, and he turns out to be no better than his genetics made him.
This was one of the low points in the series, the entire thing feels like a wasted opportunity at the end, much like Veil himself.
Another stirring adventure for the creatures of the idyllic Mossflower wood. As previous reviewers have pointed out, the storylines do get a little repetitive; however I don't expect the youthful audience the books are aimed at, would be too troubled with that - just as long as there are heroes and heroines, warriors and pirates, goodies and baddies, and lots of scrumptious feasts to fill the long, sun-drenched, bucolic days!
I was not really sad to give this to my sister as part of the payment for her Lord of the Rings box set, because this is definitely my least favorite redwall book!
His adopted mother, the only mouse who didn't hate him, follows him as he sets out to find his father, the evil warlord Swartt Sixclaw, who abandoned him.
He finds his father, the mouse finds them, the Swartt throws a spear at the mouse in an attempt to kill her, then Veil jumps in front of the spear and gives his life to save his adpoted mother.
We'll never know.I give it one star because I hated the storyline about the outcast, and the storyline between the Sunflash the badger and the ferret warlord (which took up the majority of the book, despite its title) was equally enraging.
This was very good. My enjoyment of it was quite vast in dimension.
Jacques never provides any ambiguity in his characters: all the drama comes from physical conflict or from youngsters bucking the rules, never from relationships between characters.Nowhere is this more evident that in Outcast of Redwall, where Jacques finally gave himself a chance to right a real wrong in his world: all mustelids are evil!
In Jacques's world, if you're born a fox, rat, stoat, or weasel, you are automatically evil, and you have no chance for redemption even if you're raised in an environment as conducive toward peace as Redwall.Fail.
I've always loved this book. And rereading it brought many pleasant memories. Hoping my reading pace picks up again now that I've finished it. However rereading a book as an adult does change the way you view it and though my love for the series remains, I don't think I'll revisit other redwall books soon.
All of the principle parties in this book are seeking revenge for wrongs done to them, or at least perceived wrongs: The warrior badger Sunflash the Mace wants to settle a score with Swartt Sixclaw, the nasty ferret warlord who snared him years ago and had been planning to kill the badger; Swartt wants to kill Sunflash, who with the aid of the hawk Skarlath had escaped from his clutches and in the ensuing struggle permanently damaged Swartt's famed paw that has six claws on it; and Swartt's son Veil—who was accidentally left behind in the wild by his cruel father and found and raised by a kindly Redwall mousemaid named Bryony—carries a desire for revenge against the infamous father that he never knew.
This book ultimately disappointed me somewhat because it had so much potential and yet did not live up to it. The concept was great: a baby "vermin", one of the typically antagonist species, son of a warlord, is raised by the kind, loving creatures of Redwall. I found the conclusion unsatisfying, however. Brian Jacques tried to break out of his rigid black-vs-white mold for this book and create complex characters. He tried and came so close to succeeding and then swerved away and missed the mark so sharply it almost hurts.
I loved this.It gives you the backstory of Sunflash the Mace, who appeared at Salamandastron at the very end of the original Redwall book. Appears: Mossflower, Outcast of RedwallMentioned: Mariel of Redwall, Salamandastron, The Long Patrol, Eulalia!The first book (each Redwall book is split into three smaller books) deals with Sunflash's beginnings, and how he came to Salamandastron. The second book deals with Redwall Abbey, and the titular "Outcast of Redwall," Veil the ferret. The book starts
I loved this.It gives you the backstory of Sunflash the Mace, who appeared at Salamandastron at the very end of the original Redwall book.
The majority of the book deals with Sunflash and how he came to be Sunflash the Mace.This book fits very well into the Redwall chronology, and gives us another view of Bat Mountpit, as well as a different view of Salamandastron.
(hide spoiler)] It's clear that Bryony's love for Veil will overcome anything, but at some point, even a mother will see that her offspring is just evil.
I do love that we get to see (view spoiler)[ Bella of Brockhall finally reunite with her son, Sunflash the Mace.
I used to love the Redwall books as a kid, and I still like most of them now despite the somewhat interchangeable cast of characters.
In my opinion, the main drawback of the series is that you can usually tell if the character is good or bad by its species, and it's always predictable.
I saw the spoilers so I know how his story ends, and that makes no sense to me either: why would Bryony, who was so blind to his faults before, give him up after he'd finally done something good?
On top of all, it's not even Veil's story contrary to what the synopsis makes you believe.
This series as a whole has some excellent traits, and I overall enjoyed Redwall books growing up.However, even as a child, the theme that I now see to be essentially racism was unacceptable.
In the end, when Veil still sacrifices himself to save Bryony, she writes it off as an unintentional sacrifice on Viel's part, and comes to the conclusion that he was just inherently evil.The series already had the issue of implying that some beings are born irredeemably and one-dimensionally evil, and the ending to Outcast is so infuriating and terrible in message that it stains the entire series.
Trademark Jacques.
Wonderfully touching, with characters that you can't help but love and cheer for as they conquer their enemies and grow to maturity.
Sunflash the Mace and his journey to find his legacy, along with all the friends he makes along the way, is certain to captivate.
Her stubborn defense of Veil, even when all the evidence was placed under her nose, was extremely trying.
I spent the entire novel wishing I could kick her out the window and see whether the fall would shake some sense into her.
I read this book back in middle school (10+ years ago) I have been searching for it for the last 5+ years as I have thought about it numerous times through out the years!
That I may say makes for a GREAT book, if 10 years down the line not only do you remember the book, but feverishly search for it so you may read it again!
I can't wait to re-read this amazing book, and now that I know it's apart of a series I will be looking into the other books for a great read!
The Outcast of Redwall: In which the badger Sunflash the Mace and the ferret warlord Swartt Sixclaw are sworn enemies.In which a baby ferret is raised at Redwall Abbey and we explore the ideas of Nature vs Nurture. In which Brian Jacques outdoes himself in descriptions of snacks, meals and feasts of all kinds.This is not my favorite Redwall tale, but the final scene involving the ferret Veil and his caretaker Bryony is one of the most memorable and complex in the entire series, and makes Outcast a must-read of the series.
Probably the Redwall novel which touched me the most (although I have not read the whole series). As regards the series as a whole, these books characterized by childhood. Brian Jacques has crafted a unique and vibrant world full of lovable characters and equally despicable villains. What's not to love about talking woodland creatures that live in a little red sandstone abbey, eat good food, laugh and sing?
I didn't like the fatalist philosophy that once bad, always bad. The author does not ascribe to the idea that "Every saint has a past, every sinner has a future" but rather seems to think we're all destined to be whatever we were called to be. But then a real hero means nothing because there is no free will!
not a Brian Jacques fan in general, but this one - ack! where to start? I'd say this forgets/rejects the possibility of redemption, but it doesn't even get that close. Creatures fates are determined by what kind of creature they are and who their parents are. Environment doesn't matter, nore does nurture. It is entirely nature, and nature is not individualized. :P
If you want to read about anthropomorphised animals, read The Wind in the Willows or The Chronicles of Narnia. This is pompous, excruciatingly slow CRAP.Granted, I did not read any of the previous seven books in the series. But I do not think they would have helped any.
I have loved this series since childhood, but I have not read all of them. I currently own 15 of them and now I will go back and read the ones I have in sequence! I love the descriptions particularly of the food and the characters are always well developed.
My absolute favorite of the series!!
And as both friends follow Veil through Mossflower Woods, kind-hearted and caring, but sheltered Bryony learns more about the outside world and the beast that she raised as her son, and eventually Bryony returns to the Abbey a much more mature and wise creature than she were when she had left.About this time, the main plot involving Sunflash and Swartt picks up, and much to my surprise I realized that I actually enjoyed reading about the battle for Salamandastron despite my low expectations.
Eventually, I don’t think that Veil's love for Bryony makes him a truly good beast.
Salamandastron is my favourite Redwall'verse location (all the good stuff in this book begins with the letter 'S' for some reason) and all the hares are enchanting characters.
You could argue that Veil only becomes bad because the rest of the Abbey expect it of him, and spend their time blaming him for everything that goes wrong to the point that he feels he may as well do bad things anyway.
The whole book feels like it should be leading up to an epic showdown between Veil and his father Swartt but....nah.
The main problem I have with Jacques's books is the fact that the difference between "good guys" and "bad guys" is based on their species.
Because they're "vermin"!)Now, I first read the Redwall series as an insensitive little child, and while I generally enjoyed them (until I came back some years later and went "okay, what the actual fuck"), this book did bother me even then.
Or, really, how Veil is treated by the story.Okay, so Veil is a ferret brought into Redwall as a tiny baby.
Regarding the title character (are they considered spoilers if they're written on the back of the book?), Veil is absolutely terrible and absolutely hateable.
So far, Brian Jacques has done a great job creating these awful "big bad" antagonists like Ferahgo The Assassin and Slagar The Cruel, but Veil The Outcast is the worst, and he isn't even the main bad guy!
The characters act as perfect foils for each other, creating this space between them all wherein lies some really good drama and makes for an excellent read and a wonderful addition to the Redwall series.
Sam Bequette1st periodIn ‘’The Outcast”, I like a lot how the author really includes you in the story and make you feel a part of the action, like how he’’ll say ‘’Sunflash rolled down the hill into a thornbush, much like you have probably done at one time or another.’’(137) Also, contrary to what I just said, he doesn’t need a narrator to tell you what the characters are doing, because of the author’s amazing story telling.
My memory was that this was the worst Redwall book and on rereading it as an adult I have to say it is a hot mess.
The book is mainly about the lifelong vengeance between Sunflash the Berserker Badger Lord, his hawk friend, and Swartt Sixclaw the Ferret Warlord.
It seems like the editors said "this book is not set in Redwall AT ALL and you have to cram something in" so Jacques made up a racist sideplot about how all vermin are destined for deceit and straight up evil no matter how much nurturing they are given and by an idiot mousemaid named Bryony that behaves like an abused woman.
If it wasn’t for the unfortunate Veil part of this book, Outcast of Redwall would be a pretty decent Redwall book.
Also, your reunion with Sunflash is the sweetest thing in all of Redwall.The blurb for this book is the most deceitful and thus most annoying blurb I have ever read.
Finally, it doesn’t even mention Sunflash, who is the hero and whose journey is the focal point of the plot!Why is this book named after Veil, who doesn’t even show up until halfway through the book?
I tend to eat a lot while reading these books…The main issue I have with most of Mr. Jacques’ books is the very white and black view of good/evil.
Most of his books show woodlanders to be completely good and innocent with the occasional hero thrown in.
I don’t like that view of things.
No thing is all good or all evil.
It’s what I’ve come to expect out of a Redwaller book, but I liked the first three I ever read (Redwall, Mossflower, and Matthimeo) so, so, so much better.
I’ll just go back to the three I like if I need a good feast description.
You loved Redwall, BadabingbadaBOOM you were my BEST friend on Outcast of Redwall:I'm not sure why I loved Veil so much as a child.
I think the cover ferret's cute mug might have gotten to me because ...
I loved Veil.
I do know, however, that ever since I picked up this book it has been my undying desire to have a ferret (or three) named Veil (the first one).
The third ferret would be brown (much like the one on the cover), named Veil, the main mischief maker, and outcast of the three.
Let's get this straight, your reviews are totally biased about Veil.
I'm in 7th grade and even I can tell that about you "adults." I completely agree that Sunflash's story was incredible, and greatly loved, but I disagree that the addition of Veil was a mistake.
The story of Veil Sixclaw added suspense, debate, and it left you questioning yourself about this mysterious creature.
Without Veil, Redwall wouldn't even be in the story!
Veil allows the story to be woven together in a way obviously only Jacques and a 7th grader can understand.
This Redwall book has one of my favourite characters/character developments in it.
Veil.I commented in earlier reviews that a lot of characters are either good or evil, and it is very very rare for you to see an 'evil' animal act in a good manner.
if that topic isn't a bit too far advanced for the key demographic of readers.This is a prequel novel of sorts, taking you to the earlier days of Redwall.
This isn't a great favourite of mine but it is memorable thanks to Veil.

This book broke my heart, I loved Marlfox and to be honest this is the only other one I read, but I loved the Redwall books.
I certainly did not, which is why this book for me was totally heart breaking!!
Despite breaking my heart for many reasons it was also a beautiful tale with the same wonderful creatures we all have come to expect from Briam Jacques.
If you can just let yourself get lost in tale and not worry about what may or may not have been meant to be racism or what have you, you will enjoy the story as much as the other other books in this series.
I also remember it as one of the sadder Redwall books I have read, in my opinion.One of the story's main characters is a badger lord called Sunflash the Mace, who is probably among my favorite badger lords (#1 is Lord Brocktree).
There's also a plot revolving around a ferret who was adopted by Redwall only to be thrown out later (now being The Outcast of Redwall).It has been a very long time since I have read this, but if you are looking for another badger lord adventure, this one was certainly enjoyable.
Brian Jacques wasn't allowed to reenact  Birth of a Nation  in the rodent section of his local pet store and thus wrote this book instead.
This novel, ostensibly marketed as "fantasy", nonetheless relies on the most banal and ordinary of racist cliches; a child of the lesser barbarian peoples is adopted by the good, genetically moral denizens of Redwall, but is cast out because he can't contain the violent urges of his racial temperament.
If you've read the preceding 7 Redwall books, it's impossible to spoil this one.
Here's a real spoiler: if you enjoyed this book, you're probably a racist, and not a particularly clever or imaginative one.
I read this one a long time ago and came back to it again, having forgotten most of the storyline.
I find the full cast audio recordings of his books very enjoyable, by the way, so check those out if you have a chance.
The only other observation I'd add about this particular book is that it's misnamed.
Veil, the 'Outcast of Redwall' seems to be somewhat a secondary character without a lot of strong presence or importance to the central plot of the book.
That said, it doesn't reduce the quality of the book.
But, no surprise here, the little ferret who was raised by a sweet mouse lady turns out to be just plain evil for no apparent reason.
So he eventually gets kicked out of redwall for attempted murder and the little mouse lady, who refuses to think he's evil, goes after him.
Then, at the climax of the story, Veil randomly decides to be good for a split second and sacrifice his life for the Mouse lady.
Inconsistent !In the end the little mouse lady realizes 'he really was evil after all, even if he did save my life.
I totally agree with Danielle's review of this and really, you should just read hers, but here's mine:Sunflash is a pretty epic badger, as badgers are.
His introduction seemed half-baked, at the least, and his entire story was just frustrating.
WHY ARE YOU ALL OF A SUDDEN A BLIND JERK, BRYONY?The complete lack of grace in Jacques's world, especially in this book, is something that's a lot harder for me to swallow as an adult than as a kid when I was predominatly reading because otters.
This book should have just been about otters and hares.
