https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129131.The_State_of_the_Art
There are some authors whose short fiction I enjoy much more than their novels.
'A Gift from the Culture' and 'The State of the Art' are definite high points in the collection.Individual stories:Road of Skulls: 2/5Nothing particularly special.A Gift From the Culture: 4/5I dug this one a lot.
My favorite in the book.Odd Attachment: 4/5Pretty humorous encounter with a plant life form.Descendant: 2/5Another culture story.
One man's trash...The State of the Art: 4/5This novella, book 4 of The Culture series, takes up about half of the collection.
I think it may be a joke written solely to entertain the Author, which is worth a star in and of itself.
Anyway.Every Culture book I've read so far has been better than the last.
Though this one is actually a short-story collection, it includes the fourth installment of the Culture series, a novella called "The State of the Art" that is both funnier and more heartbreaking than the previous three novels (which are all, to varying degrees, quite funny and heartbreaking).
Here we meet up again with Diziet Sma, the heroine from  Use of Weapons, as her Contact Unit spaceship encounters Earth for the first time, and must investigate the planet and decide whether to formally Contact its inhabitants.I expected this novella to be a...
Banks comes up with a lovely answer.#4 is also a nice perspective flip in a classic SF scenario.
The guy in the space-suit needs to walk a long way across the surface of a hostile planet to reach safety.
I liked the alien speech translator:'First person singular obtaining colloquial orgasm within a Caledonian sandwich,' it said, then looked annoyed, and spoke incoherently into a grille set in its belly, which replied.
The ending was nice though.#7 is the title story: when the Culture visits Earth.
It's not the most successful Culture story.
A selection of short fiction set in the Culture universe, where your tools and equipment have opinions too and can talk back to you.
My own tendency to talk to my surroundings would definitely have to change.I really wanted to like the story where the Culture visits Earth.
Is it still a first contact story if the Earth doesn’t know it’s been contacted?
I liked it without have my socks blown off.Banks is such a good writer, but not all of these stories demonstrate his best efforts.
Still, well worth reading for fans of the Culture!Book number 285 in my Science Fiction and Fantasy reading project.
I think, as a compilation, this book fell a little short for me.
I actually love short stories, so I was left feeling a little disappointed.A couple thoughts on the individual stories:Road of Skulls - I felt like this wasn't quite long enough or focused enough.A Gift From the Culture - I liked this one.
Kind of a little slice of life showing someone who has left the culture for something much more gritty.Odd Attachment - I liked this one until the very end.
The end didn't need to be that cheap.Descendant - This was my favorite story in the book.
The book is actually a miscellaneous of short stories and a novella.
I understand that this should be indicated in some way to the reader before buying the book.That said, some stories and the novella that gives the book its name are very good.
Anyway, I can not get rid of the feeling of "porridge" in the book as a whole, by some intrancending stories, some that seem experimental and some other that seems that Iain M.
Banks's talent is evident in every sentence and of course I do not regret having read this work, although actually it can not be considered -except maybe for the editors- as the fourth book of Culture series.
Banks as a short story writer, it seems: the best of the stories was the titular story itself, which is both a Culture story and rather longer than the other stories in the collection, which gave it more space to interest me, and more space for him to set up the kind of story that’s grabbed me in his novels.There’s nothing wrong with the stories per se, but they didn’t grab me at all (with the exception of the one already mentioned and ‘A Gift from the Culture’).
"The State of the Art" isn't all sci-fi, and only a couple of the stories included here make mention of the Culture and its related technologies.
I'm usually turned off by such reality in my sci-fi, but I believe that Banks has handled the plot well.The collection is a good one, and will shed new light upon Banks' work if you happen to be a fan; certainly, it has me putting his other works alongside The State of the Art and The Algebraist and speculating as only fanatics can about the Culture's unspoken origins.
It took me quite some time to get really into this collection because -you'll laugh- I didn't actually realise it was a collection of short stories when I grabbed it from the library.
Despite being up to the #4 in the Culture series, I didn't feel I really knew much about the culture because most of the books are from the points of view of non-culture individuals.After this book I feel like I have a much better idea about what the civilisation of the Culture is actually about and how the individuals within it regard their own empire and the ones surrounding them.
From BBC Radio 4 - Afternoon Drama:The State of The ArtBy Iain M.
When Agent Dervley Linter, decides to go native can Diziet Sma change his mind?The Ship ......
Antony SherDiziet Sma ......
Nina SosanyaDervley Linter ......
Conrad NelsonDirected by Nadia Molinari.http://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b00hv1dz4* Consider Phlebas (Culture, #1) 4* The Player of Games (Culture, #2) 4* Use of Weapons (Culture, #3)4* The State of the Art (Culture, #4) TR Excession (Culture, #5) TR Inversions (Culture, #6) TR Look to Windward (Culture, #7) TR Matter (Culture, #8) TR 	Surface Detail (Culture #9) TR The Hydrogen Sonata (Culture #10)
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
I finished this short story/ novella collection one day before Luke returns from Brazil. So we will record a podcast about this part of our book-club very soon :-)
State of the Art is a Culture novella with a few additional short stories tacked on, only one of which could be classed as part of the series.
The short stories themselves are merely OK, and none of them really stand out.The novella shows what happens when a Culture team arrives to assess Earth, circa 1977, and decide if they will make first contact.
His conversation with fellow agent Diziet Sma (who appeared in Use of Weapons) is the highlight of the story, as he elucidates the whole purpose of the Culture and compares it (unfavourably) with that of Earth.
If you want to understand the Culture, you really need to read this story.
As it's Iain Banks, you probably do not need to be told the wry, quite funny at times, observations made (flawed, odd and unequal economic system, penchant for wars and killing each other and so on), and debates ensue amongst the Ships crew whether to actually intervene, to make the Culture known to the planet.
One of the agents goes native and decides not to leave as he starts to actually like Earth - and starts believing in Jesus and turns into a Roman Catholic, despite the protestations coming from the Cultures ship and Sma's attempted intervention to save him.
The stories were 5 star material, I just hated the novella State of the Art, which I woud give 2 stars to at most. Rambling pages upon pages about non interesting things... at times I almost couldn’t believe this was written by Banks. The other stories were brilliant though.
4,5
Sort of in the Culture series, sort of not quite. This is the (first?) collection of Iain M. Banks short stories, paired with a Culture novella which gives the book its title. Taking up half the book The State of the Art tells the tale of the Culture's first contact with Earth, some time in the '70s. Told in the form of a mission report by Diziet Sma, and later translated by Skaffen-Amtiskaw, (prior to their appearances in  Use of Weapons ).Sma is assigned to the Contact group, on board The Arbi
Unfortunately, the whole thing feels a little contrived – as if Banks had been repeatedly asked (a) is the Culture us in the future, and if not, (b) does the Culture ever come to Earth?
Instead of having a story to tell, if feels more like Banks is answering those questions: no and yes, respectively.
Points are always rescued by the ships themselves – having The Arbitrary send a postcard to the BBC requesting Space Oddity is just beautiful.The short stories that come before the novella are also a bit of a mixed bag.
Reviewing the novella, The State of the Art:Storyline: 2/5Characters: 3/5Writing Style: 3/5World: 3/5Banks's name keeps coming up when I come across science fiction awards or mentions of notable series, so I keep reading the Culture novels to see what it is all about.
In this novella, Banks drops a lot of the subtlety and allegories and goes for a straight comparison between then-present day Earth and the Culture.
There's a lot of Culture novels left, and at present I'm inclined to keep reading them.
I'm really not a fan of short stories, and only some of the ones included alongside the novella were related to the Culture series.
Has a kind of interesting premise but it's hard to sympathise with someone who leaves utopia in general given it's far beyond our own experienceOdd Attachment: vaguely amusing, pretty gross, a little confusing, ehDescendant: best story of the book, about a human and their sentient spacesuit.
Not perfect but it's interesting with a well done ending and a pretty unusual perspective.Cleaning Up: Reminds me of some 50s/60s pulp story - some humour that sometimes works, sometimes doesn't, cold war theme, generic giant bad corporation.
Neither a clear "point" or a decent plot or mood or setting or anything.Scratch: "experimental" writing that's like an expression of anger over the Thatcher era and politics/economy in general.
"The State of the Art" will be best enjoyed by devotees of Banks' novel of the Culture, as it is the one story which depicts the Culture encountering Earth; there follows a debate among the Culture's Contact division about whether it is more imperative to save Earth from nuclear destruction or to spare them the perhaps-corrupting influence of their own society, and the story has a delightfully queasy set piece that will make you think twice on that very question.
After having read the last Culture novel so recently, I was a little apprehensive but I am glad to say that I did not need to be concerned.It is a book of two halves - the first a collection of stories, and the second a longer Culture story.The collection of stories show the breadth of Banks' imagination, and I really enjoyed them.
They are varied, technically well written and laced with typical Banks humour.The second half is a longer story which really stands out and is in stark contrast to the last Culture novel.
Iain Banks is my most adored author; State of the Art, his only work I hadn't read.
Banks' attempts to graft some rather prosaic pop philosophy onto the magnificent muddle of the human condition failed to stick.
The war-torn, chiaroscuro theory that there can be no hope without failure, no joy without suffering is fascinating as a footnote, as his embryonic attempt to reconcile the vitality of humanity's imperfection with the stasis of the Culture's perfection.
I'm glad that this sublime author soon measured such a pallid, earthbound dialectic as far too shallow a premise and soared into the outer reaches of the universe with his later, operatic Culture novels.
RIP Mr Banks.
A unique short-story venture from Banks...most of these pieces seemed either a little odd and unfinished or preachy rants.
Only a few of these stories are actually part of the Culture world.
After all, if people can live ridiculously long, and not really do a whole lot of work because their living and governing has been turned over to AI Minds, life seems a bit...well not sedate, because it's a little too hedonistic for that, but it's not as if any of them do anything that Matters, if you can follow my thoughts.Anyway, I did enjoy that story, and it's an important Culture reference to be familiar with.
It's hard to rate a short story collection because of all the different feelings each story provokes.
Banks has a lot of fun with his short fiction and you can tell he used it to wander off (what was already) a very unusual path.
Stories both playful and morbid.The chunk of this book is taken up by The State of the Art which is set in the Culture universe.
I'm not sure I agree with his some of his conclusions, but The State of the Art is a fantastic look at mortality, privilege, and finding the savor in life.
"The State of the Art" is a small masterpiece. It is ostensibly science fiction. Aliens from highly developed society study human condition in 1970's. Beneath this plot Banks seeks the true meaning of human nature. Why are we so destructive and obsessed with material prosperity? Banks's answer is very dire but I felt slight hope from Linter's love for human being.
It’s a clever set-up in which most readers will probably conclude along with Sma that, despite his occasionally compelling arguments, Linter is a fool for wanting to abandon the Culture for a life on Earth.I won’t reveal anything more about the story, but I do want to share a few quotes that should give prospective readers a good idea of what juicy mind nuggets reside in this delightful story.Sma imploring Linter not to stay on Earth:"How long do you think this place is going to stay the way it is now?
We aren’t because we live the way we want to." (156)The ship’s Mind chiding Sma for questioning its decision to help Linter fulfill his desire to stay on Earth:"What is the Culture?
Solid as the beginning debate on the evils of human society, but weak in terms of story or entertainment.Road of Skulls - Meh 1/5A Gift from the Culture - Touching 2/5 "Money is a sign of poverty.
I doubt they can, so they will always be less as well as more than us."Cleaning Up - Dumb 1/5Piece - Inconsistent - 2/5The State of the Art - the selfishness of human society 2/5 "'Naturalness?' I said, loudly.
This Audiobook comes with 5 or 6 Culture short stories and the novella length "The State of the Art".The short stories were mostly too uh short to amount to much but I did enjoy the whimsical "Clean up" about an alien factory ship dumping their garbage across the globe."The State of the Art" was a thoroughly enjoyable listen.
I always presumed "The Culture" were what humanity evolved into, so having Culture agents monitoring humanity in the 1970's was quite a twist on my assumed knowledge.
The plot is minimal but Banks has crafted a fascinating philosophical examination of the Culture through human eyes and humanity through the Culture's.
Small collection of short stories related to the Culture, with the title story focused on Diziet Sma's summary of her data collection mission to Earth. There were a couple of very strange stories that had me wondering how he comes up with this stuff! I had no urgency to come back for more and thus took far too long to drive through such a quick read. I think I'll do one more culture novel and then may need to take a break.
If you enjoy the Culture series and Iain M.
Banks' masterful writing style, but not necessarily the series' space warfare flavor, and its one-culture-to-rule-them-all overtones, then this book is for you.
My favorite story was A Gift From the Culture.
It had this dark, despondent, yet revelational feeling to it.Odd Attachment, with its 'lovely' and humorous plot, surprised me pleasantly, too.And, of course, the eponymous The State of the Art novella, the crown jewel of the collection, really drills down the whole idea of moral relativity, which, together with a view on suffering as the natural way to meaning, are the overarching themes of the collection.Definitely my top Culture book so far!Ah, also, the stories in this book prove to me that Elon Musk completely doesn't get Iain M.
Banks and the Culture.
