https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/841446.Essays_in_Zen_Buddhism_First_Series
There's little intellectualizing one can do on the topic of zen before the logic becomes circuitous, and indeed all intellectualizing, however little, moves you farther away from the point into contradiction and confusion.
Herein lies the intrinsic irony in Zen literature and highlights the author's suffering in bringing this book to us.
Historical dialogue between monks and masters, and the overall repetition of the basic concept throughout the book captures the essence of zen in its simplicity.
Readers looking for more are missing the point entirely; that's right in front of them.
Good for its time, although I feel a lot of this material is now covered better (and in a less windy style) elsewhere. Still useful for completists, though.
This book is really interesting in that it combines the high-minded and sanitized view of academic rigor with a deep and personal experience as it relates to a religion, in this case, Zen. Suzuki delves deeply into this Eastern religion that evades definite explanation in a way that scientific, Western, Christian-oriented minds can most easily grasp.
I found that in Suzuki's recounting of the many snapshots of the life of Zen monks and the development of the religion that he himself was attempting to do what Zen masters themselves attempt to do for their students - namely to guide the student or reader to a place from which they themselves can grasp what enlightenment is.
However, in this case, Suzuki never appears pushy or pedantic.
A beautifully written case for Zen, however, some prior knowledge of terms and ideas is recommended.
Certainly, the moral virility to be found in Zen, apart from its mystic flight, comes from the fighting of the battle of life courageously and undauntedly." “The mind is ordinarily chock full with all kinds of intellectual nonsense and passional rubbish.
The Zen masters know this, for they have gone through with the same experiences once.
But the height the great masters have climbed cannot otherwise be reached; the truth of Zen can never be attained unless it is attacked with the full force of personality.
But, sad to say, I didn’t gain much in the way of understanding or appreciation—though, to be sure, what I already have by way of Zen understanding and Zen appreciation can be credited to Suzuki round about.I did discover a line on page 236 which I’ve added to my Goodreads quotes: “It is like driving a cart; when it moveth not, wilt thou whip the cart or the ox?” Nangaku Yejo (Nan-yüeh Hai-jang).Books I have found enlightening on the subject of enlightenment are Thich Nhat Hanh’s The Heart of the Buddha's Teaching: Transforming Suffering into Peace, Joy, and Liberation; Lafcadio Hearn’s Gleanings in Buddha-Fields; Zen Flesh, Zen Bones: A Collection of Zen and Pre-Zen Writings by Paul Reps and Nyogen Senzaki; and R.
DT Suzuki was the most erudite scholar of and at the same time initial popularizer of Zen Buddhism to the West.
He traced the entire tradition from India through China and Japan all in the original languages/texts.
Yet, his writing is completely accessible and down-to-earth (as long as you find yourself in a philosophical mindset).I read one of his works when I was in college, though I can't remember which.
school who was crazy for imparting EVERYTHING about the intellectual schools of Buddhism through the course of the centuries.
to Suzuki.
I am now just beginning to read these essays.
Pernah baca edisi asli buku ini, cetakan pas masa PD II, isinya sebenarnya menarik cuman krn bgitu implisitnya dan butuh pisau analisis yg sgt tajam utk membedah buku ini. Salah satu yg tersulit adalah memaknai karya seni Zen (lukisan, puisi, pahatan kayu, dll) guna menangkap makna tersembunyi di dalamnya. Lieur oge deh pokoknya.
"Essays on Zen Buddhism" is one of the books in the primary bibliography of my free ebook on comparative mysticism. "The greatest achievement in life" at suprarational.org/gail2012.pdf has been reviewed on Goodreads.D.T. Suzuki is considered one of the greatest writers on Zen. He had a long and distinguished career:http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D._T._Su...
It took me two times through, but after the second time, I felt like I finally understand what Zen is, and why. Which, as Suzuki constantly points out, is very different from practicing Zen, or finding Satori.
Master Suzuki interprets Zen Buddhism with intellectual rigor and profound spirituality. It is not an easy read, and he makes no attempt to "dumb down" complex teachings in the manner commonly found in many Western texts on the subject. It's well worth the effort!
Fairly informative, but quite heavy going. On the other hand, Zen isn't really the sort of thing that can be learned from books...
honk shu, grasshoppper
A good book, subject matter slow reading
Raed this many year ago; it shaped much of my subsequent thinking, but a difficult read, just like much of Suzuki's works.
Long and SlowA tough book to digest. It is deep and thorough but drags a bit with repetitive themes. Worth the read for one looking for a text book style presentation.
i started this book and am still reading it. dense and powerful. not so easy for me to wrap my brain or self around.
Full of fascinating detail but can be confusing since the Japanese names of the Chinese patriarchs are used.
