https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/230619.The_Salzburg_Connection
I read MacInnes' first novel Above Suspicion a couple of years ago, and thought the story was pretty good but the writing could be clunky on occasion.
Personally I don't mind that trait; it just comes across as a little unusual given that few recent writers employ it.It's pretty much a no-frills style of thriller writing, though—not, for instance, like a Mary Stewart suspense novel, which sets the scene vividly.
Everybody knows how gorgeous the Austrian Alps are (I pretty much picked up this title when in a thriller mood because of...well, the Salzburg connection), but in MacInnes' writing the landscape only enters into the story as it directly affects the plot.
I discovered MacInnes' books decades ago as a young girl when I enjoyed these Cold War stories of innocent Americans caught up in the machinations of Nazis, Communists, Red Chinese, and the other splinter groups that made up the bad guys in spy novels of that era.
It's been a long time since I read one of these and I'm interested to see my slightly different reactions now.Back in those days I read lots of Austen, Scott, Dickens and other classic writers.
In fact the most modern writer I enjoyed was Agatha Christie.
I'm pretty sure that's why I thought it took a long time for this book to get going - my perspective has changed.
I read this book for the first time soon after its original publication in the late 60's. I loved it and inspired an interest in suspense novels and especially all books by Helen MacInnes. Would love to find the time to read it again.
First class story- interesting characters, logical yet surprising plot twists, suspense the whole way through!
Ms. MacInnes wrote spy thrillers before almost anyone else. They are still outstanding reads.
The premise was deeply attractive. Hidden Nazi treasure to fund the Fourth Reich. That treasure protected by Nazis during the Cold War. Americans, Russians and Brits all closing in on the prize. How could it go wrong? Well to be succinct, it is long-winded, boring and the characters stereotypical and one-dimensional. It was my first Helen MacInnes and obviously disappointing but I intend to really research her other efforts and pick a stronger effort. If anyone can help me out that would be appreciated.
Nazis, Russians, Brits, and Americans all converging on the same remote Austrian mountain village. Throw in a few alliances,double-crosses and triple-crosses, amateur and professional spies, a lawyer, an editor and several innocent bystanders mix them all up in Cold War Europe and you have one terrific spy-novel. What's in that Finstersee box anyway?
I found this a little harder to get into than most of MacInnes's novels - it's long, with a big cast - but ultimately rewarding. I liked the Austrian setting and the reminder that events from the Second World War remained significant into the Cold War (and today).
The Salzburg Connection is a great read. I'm going to be tracking down the rest of her books. https://piningforthewest.co.uk/2017/0...
I loved this book, a great suspense, mystery that is CLEAN!!! The book was published in 1968. I think I am going to try and check out other books by this author. Yea!!!
This is my mom's favorite author and she has me hooked. I really enjoyed this book due to its setting and its high level of intrigue.
Out of the box for me, but it was pretty good. The main character kind of bugged me though. Whenever he saw a pretty woman it reminded me of a dog seeing a treat.
Ah, exciting, well-written, Cold War-era spy fiction--with romance. Not my favorite genre, but nice every now and then.
It is devoid of the slick gadgets found in so many spy novels, probably because the primary characters are not spies themselves, and this makes it a much more believable narrative.
As said before, there are a lot of moving parts, and just when you think you have all of their paths figured out, she adds another dimension--some of which aren't revealed until the very end.
Overall, I would definitely recommend this to anyone who likes spy stories, mysteries, Nazis, or novels about the complicated relations of the cold war.4 out of 5 stars.
A retired British spy runs a photography shop with his loving wife.
The American finds a distraught wife instead of her husband and the name signed on the couple’s advance cheque, is no one they know.I’m accustomed to 300-page mysteries and “The Salzburg Connection”, 1968, is a 384-page spy adventure thus it took me longer to read.
I wound up outside my preferred genre because I loved some of Helen MacInnes’s gothic mysteries and when I am a fan, I collect all works.
In this novel, Helen shifts the torch from side to side but the spy action and intricacies were expertly conveyed.
It will be up to an American amateur, a lawyer, cooperating with the CIA to unravel the case.Suspense - in 1966, NY publishing firm sends lawyer, Bill Mathison, to Salzburg to investigate a letter received from a photographer about a book contract of which there is no record.
Returning to NY, the lawyer meets with the publisher and there are FBI agents present - it seems the signer of the advance check has raised a red flag concerning Nazi records which have laid under the waters of Finstersee for 21 years.
A large cast of characters some of whom appear for a time then leave the action.
During the time the case concerns the U.S., the hero meets FBI agents.
Then when the action moves off shore, the FBI men refer him to agents of another nation, and on to another as the action moves from place to place.
Eventually agents from far-reaching organizations like Mi6 and CIA converge on the scene for a rousing climax.
At times the author reaches too far for pathos, but overall this book is one of the greats of spy fiction.
Boring !This was a slow and tiring read !After long time I have been reading book of this genre (spy thrillers) .
My previously read from this genre have been "Ken Follet" and "Frederich Foresynth" and obviously my expectations were high.
This book was slow and less exciting.
Most of the characters in this story lack depth and purpose.
The main character “Bill” (American lawyer) is really a bad choice.
Even the character of beautiful/sensuous Russian spy “Eva Lang” is unimpressive and undeveloped.
The hype about the author (“The queen of spy thrillers”) is definitely unwanted and undeserved.
There were too many characters, many with multiple identities, some with multiple allegiances.
The motivation of the characters is suspect, with many of them acting for the convenience of the plot, and not driving the plot.
The McGuffin was a box recovered from Finstersee Lake with the names of influential people who had been blackmailed by Nazis, and now could be blackmailed by other malefactors.
Of course there was also a fake box, just to complicate things.So, interesting story as an example of 1960s paranoia about the could war, but difficult to follow and hard to become emotionally involved.
The first chapter which details the removal and hiding of a box of Nazi materials from an Austrian lake sets up the whole situation, including Richard Bryant's murder.Everything seems to flow naturally from this, the arrival of a New York lawyer representing a publishing house to investigate a cheque supposedly issued by the publisher's agent as an advance on a book the publisher would not in a million years have added to their list.
This spy thriller stands up well after over 40 years, although the sense Lynn has that she has to ask if she can go along is strange given that she is the company's authorized representative.
The story traces the post-World War II period, when most countries in Europe are engaged in cloak and dagger encounters.
At the centre is a deep, dark lake- Fintersee- which hides more secrets than one can imagine.The book was absorbing and the story unpredictable.
Unlike most thrillers where one is able to foresee some, if not all developments, the author keeps the reader guessing till the end.
An un-put-down-able book by all standards and highly recommended for those who enjoy mystery and intrigue, with a dash of Nazi history thrown in.
Loved Mrs. Conway as she was not in the movie and just my type.
I thought the movie cast was perfect except the script butchered the book.
I would like to see this movie remade with more loyalty to the original book.
Not sure who I would cast but maybe Jen Lawrence as Elissa Lang, Michael Fassbender as Mathison, and Catriona Balfe as Mrs. Conway.
Anna would be played by Sophie Turner maybe with a brunette doo as opposed to her lovely red locks.
Still one of my favorite books the last few years.
This has long been one of my favorite reads.
The suspense grips from the opening moments at a misty lakeside in Austria where a box hidden by the Nazis at the end of WWII to the final resolution.
the characters are smart and identifiable, the story intriguing.
Now of course certain business of the story like the suddenly shorter cord on his hotel phone (which tips the hero off that phone bugged) seem a touch quaint.
If you like good suspense with a WWII and Cold War theme, this book is for you.
Guess I can finally give up my tattered disintegrating paperback copy!
My Dad likes book about WWII and espionage, so there were almost always books like this around the house when I was growing up.
There is also some cosmic rule that every vacation cabin or beach cottage you stay in will have spy novels on the shelves and in the bedside table, so I learned to enjoy them when I was young.I really like Helen MacInnes-type books, written in the midst of the Cold War (and sometimes WWII), back before cell phones and whizbang technology.
They are heavy on patriotism and noble Young People doing the hard thing because it is the right thing.
Her books are true post WW2 spy mysteries, each one has a Nazi that the character is pursuing, and the Nazi is trying to murder.the character and the love interest. The books are out of print, but thankfully they are on Kindle. I reread them all every couple of years. A couple of her early ones aren't as good for being a true spy mystery, but don't hold that against her. She wrote true original spy stories and there aren't many authors since her that have written the length of story lines she wrote.
Really 3.5, but I have been so desperate for something, anything, to read that could hold my attention that I especially appreciated this one. Apart from a bit of clumsy, dated writing, it was a thoroughly satisfying spy novel. Not as elegant as Mary Stewart, but very readable and well thought out. And, because it's a few decades old, it had the added bonus of being only PG. I'll be reading more by this author.
Ms. MacInnes wrote "Connection" nearly fifty years ago but it still scare the socks off of me. A Cold War novel at its finest, the plot follows intrigues on to enigmas on to puzzles. The dreadful aftermath of World War II remains as it terribly impacted some of the characters. Nazis, Communists, Beautiful ladies but who can our hero trust?
I knew this book was written in 1968, but maybe with all the new technology, I expect more from my mysteries. The book was a bit long winded and not a favorite. Glad I read it, but I think probably will be the last for me. Maybe it is just with the technology and twists of modern day "who done its" I found the book really rather boring.
Not especially exciting after the first dramatic intro, but immensely enjoyable as more and more layers of espionage are revealed. Then the last third of the novel is relentless! Even though this is an old book (1968), it definitely captures the world of double agents, dedicated professionals, and the unsuspecting civilians caught up in the intrigue of international affairs.
Definitely a page turner. The plot thickens quickly, with interesting twists and turns. The romantic side plot is completely sappy and cliched, making me roll my eyes at several points (and have to double check the front cover to confirm that it was written by a woman!). But I took the novel as a light read, and so I could forgive the corniness. Mostly.
