https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8709524-silver-shadows
LIGHT SPOILERS AHEAD  "Ivashkov," she repeated, her face the picture of serenity. "My name is Sydney Ivashkov."  This book was everything. It made me laugh, jump of happiness, but mostly cry. A lot. It was really hard to read those ten first chapters where Adrian was lost and hopeless -- it was emotionally painful. I never expected it to hurt so...badly. I started this book thinking Adrian would act like Nemo's dad, doing whatever it takes to get his son back, to save him. But no -- it did not h
It was really hard to read those ten first chapters where Adrian was lost and hopeless -- it was emotionally painful.
I started this book thinking Adrian would act like Nemo's dad, doing whatever it takes to get his son back, to save him.
I was stunned to read that Adrian had given up.
I never thought I'd hate Adrian Ivashkov, but I did.Sydney was the opposite.
That's what I liked most about her in this book.
When I thought she'd finally had enough and would now let Sydney and Adrian stay together, some Alchemists showed up.
The give-me-the-next-book sort of ending.
Yup yup yup I loved this one. So much happened in less than 400 pages and I honestly couldn't put it down. I read it in a day despite having other commitments because Richelle Mead's books are so addictive! Immediately diving into The Ruby Circle because I MUST know how this series ends.
Okay. I'm going to play a game with this book. I'm going to write a list of things I want to happen in the plot, and I get one point for everything that happens. Feel free to put additions to the list in the comments. It should be noted that while writing this list I've only read the first two books... The others aren't released yet.   Game List: One point for everything that happens in This Book  1. If Dimitri is mentioned, or appears. Okay the list could end now. Just this whole book being on
I'm going to write a list of things I want to happen in the plot, and I get one point for everything that happens.
Game List: One point for everything that happens in This Book   1.
Just this whole book being on Dimitri and I would totally be okay with that.
9. Adrian and Sydney kiss again.
Adrian kisses someone other than Sydney (two points if it's because he's angry that Sydney rejected him) 11.
(Two points if it makes Sydney re-evaluate her perspectives)14.
(Two points if its a male character)16.
20 points if Adrian gets through the novel without drinking Alcohol19.
WHOAAAAAAAA!!!!!!!!!!!!!! JUST FINISHED!!!!!!!! Review coming soonAFTER THAT KILLER ENDING.....SOMEONE GIVE ME THIS BOOK!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!RELEASE DATE IS TOO FAR :'(I CANT TAKE THIS........................................................
Just got my copy!!! I want to just read the whole thing in one big sweep but I must savor this for as long as possible. Review will be after! ___________________________________________________And now we have the cover?! *fangirl moment*
Post SilverShadows I'm speechless it was everything I wanted and more❤❤❤❤ but again that ending killed me but #sydrian forever ;) If you haven't finished reading the fiery heart don't read this.....Does anyone else think it could be possible that the alchemists kick Adrian out of his apartment? because technically Sydney got permission from the boss for him to have it That's the question that randomly entered my mind tonight What I want from this book:Abe using some c4 to help get Sydney back So
Post SilverShadows I'm speechless it was everything I wanted and more❤️❤️❤️❤️ but again that ending killed me but #sydrian forever ;) If you haven't finished reading the fiery heart don't read this.....Does anyone else think it could be possible that the alchemists kick Adrian out of his apartment?
They are the cutest couple ever and the world needs sydrian babies because those will be the cutest babies everCentrum Permanebit !!!!!!!!!!
Adrian giving up just said it all, his feelings for Sydney were nowhere near strong enough for him to actually try and find a way to help her escape her imprisonment with the Alchemists.
How can I possibly believe he loves Sydney let alone is her true love when he gave up on her so quickly??-Adrian choosing to party, get drunk and hang out with another girl instead of trying to help Sydney showed how much of a weak loser boyfriend he was.
SCROLL DOWN TO THE END TO READ REVIEW.
THANK YOU.You Guys......I didnt- ....What...I..please stop....just....DIDN'T KNOW THERE WERE GOING TO BE A FIFTH BOOK LET ALONE A SIX.
TOOO FAAAARR!!!
So does my sister.....from another world.
JK> NOT MY SISTER!!and Emma Stone....she does like stoned.and when she's not stoned..not that its any different.
TOoO LONG!!!
Well, more like Thanksgiving, but whatever!
= D!CIAO PEEPS!~SkyavermoreP.S. Review to be edited in 7 months time!
Until then, I wait for you book 5!!
THIS BOOK IS THE BEST OF ITS SERIES YET.
WAIT.
BOOK.
KILL ME NOW.CIAO,~ skyavermore
Sydney's grown on me quite a bit since the first couple of books, and the Sydrian romance feels intimate and respectful and full of promise.Full review posted to the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2014...If you're a fan of Bloodlines at all, you need to read this one ASAP so you can know ALL THE THINGS.-------------------------------------------------------------------This keeps happening, so if you'd like to talk about The Big Thing that happens in this book, please use spoiler tags in your comments below.
It's not fair to discuss openly and spoil the surprise for those who haven't had a chance to read this yet, even if you aren't using specific names.
JUST.GOT.MY.COPY!!!!!!!!!!!!!

“I know what love is, Mom. I’ve had love that burns in every fiber of my being, that drives me to be a better person and empowers me through each moment of the day.
If you’d ever had something like that, you’d hold on to it with every bit of strength you had.” 
“Not what you expected, huh?” she asked in a sad voice.I wrapped a towel around her and drew her close to me.
“I expected to see the most beautiful woman in the world, to feel my heart skip a beat in her presence, and to want to carry her off to bed for a night neither of us will forget.
“Oh, Adrian.”
I really enjoyed this book and I can't wait to finish the series with The Ruby Circle!(view spoiler)[I couldn't wait to read Sydney's chapters...
I understand that they want to go on their own, and Sydney brought up some good points as to way they should split, but it still seemed like a bad idea.Who else was irritated that we didn't get to see the Duncan/Chantal reunion?
I mean Sydney and Adrian can't just hide out at Court forever, can they?One thing that I don't LOVE about this series, is how I feel like the plot is jumping around quite a bit.
I feel like lately, magic has been pushed aside, and now it's ALL about the bad Alchemist guys...
*Contains spoilers for those who have not read The Fiery Heart.*NINE MONTHS. I could have a child by then (not that I'm planning on it, but just sayin') or, you know, WE COULD HAVE SYDRIAN BABIES BY THEN! (not that that's gonna happen either, but just sayin'). My hopes for Silver Shadows: --> More post-sex poetry.--> For someone (ANYONE!) to kick Daddy Sage's ass! (Or any Alchemist's ass. Just make sure there is some alchemist ass being kicked.)--> For Eddie and Jill to become Official.
(not that that's gonna happen either, but just sayin').
--> More post-sex poetry.--> For someone (ANYONE!) to kick Daddy Sage's ass!
Just make sure there is some alchemist ass being kicked.)--> For Eddie and Jill to become Official.
Poor guy could use some Jill Lovin'.--> For all those who at least semi-care about preserving Sydney's life and/or sanity (I really hope this includes Abe because, come on, that would just be Awesomeness of Epic Proportions) to form an Elite Team of Awesome Ass-Kickers to break Sydney the heck out of re-education.--> Even more post-sex poetry.
“Ahora, y por el resto de sus vidas, su vida está atada a la del otro. Cada decisión que tomen será por los dos. Lo que uno hace afecta al otro. Son una familia, un equipo... inseparable e indisoluble.”  Antes que nada, tengo que agradecer a Richelle de que sus continuaciones sean cada seis meses, porque sino ya me habría olvidado de lo que sucedía en The Fiery Heart (igual, con ese final, ni deseándolo podía haberlo olvidado).Lo primero que noté mientras leía este libro es que fue distinto a
Antes que nada, tengo que agradecer a Richelle de que sus continuaciones sean cada seis meses, porque sino ya me habría olvidado de lo que sucedía en The Fiery Heart (igual, con ese final, ni deseándolo podía haberlo olvidado).Lo primero que noté mientras leía este libro es que fue distinto a cualquier otro, tanto de esta saga como Vampire Academy.
La primera mitad de la historia me decepcionó, hacía las cosas mal, sufría solo, no quería salir de su burbuja inventada, hacía lo que podía por Sydney pero nunca le era suficiente...
first I have to say that when this series were announced, I had my doubts about Sidney being the heroine, but man, she doesn't stop to suprise me, and amaze me, the strenght she shows on this book it's really something, even though she's being opressed, tortured, she's never lost her focus on getting a way out of conditioning.Seriously, she's really amazing in this one.And when all the hopes are against them, Marcus shows up with something that may help them, and Adrian finally is able to reach Sidney on the dreams and, oh, when they first see each other is SO FREAKING SWEET, they really belong together.I love how they are cute and their love is so palpable, but it's not clingy and like meh, at no time.So they go after Sidney in the best VA style, and then a lot of action starts, seriously the pace speeds up, and boom, you're almost in the end, but our couple seems out of option and hope, they can't runaway forever from the alchemists, and that's when Adrian comes up with an idea that perhaps will help them and(view spoiler)[THEY GET FUCKING MARRIED, I CAN'T BELIEVE, THIS IS TOO MUCH!
I wish Mead also took the time to fully develop not only their story but the supporting characters as well.
Because from what I'm getting since the The Fiery Heart & Silver Shadows, this group of supporting characters has become a plot device.
It’s like a messy melodramatic scenes were slapped all together and ta-da “it’s a book!”.The #1 plot twist came out of nowhere, it escalated too quickly.
Everyone had probably anticipated that.Silver Shadows had a very great potential but I’m afraid this book butchered my hopes and dreams for this series.
OMG!!!!!!! Richelle Mead Why do you leave me hanging like this OMG OMG OMG!!! Spoilers Don't read if you don' wanna know!!I love this book! I love this Series, but Last year when I read The Fiery Heart I almost lost it having to wait a year for Silver Shadows now I have to wait for The Ruby Circle and I am so not good at waiting!!!! Wow I love Sydney she is so brave all that she endured while the Alchemist tortured her and tried to brain wash her because she fell in love with Adrian. She is kick
Spoilers Don't read if you don' wanna know!!I love this book!
Wow I love Sydney she is so brave all that she endured while the Alchemist tortured her and tried to brain wash her because she fell in love with Adrian.
Now I have to wait til feb 2015 to find out what happened to sweet Jill and there are so many loose ends I need tied up.
I want to know what happens with Duncan and Emma!
And of course I need Adrian and Sydney to have a happy ever after with their marriage accepted!A few Fav quotes:“Until now, you have always lived your life alone.
“Sydney Katherine Sage, would you do a brooding, deadbeat Moroi the honor of being his wife?”  I wish I could feel like this in the whole book, but that didn’t happen.It’s the fifth book, one before the end, and I expected it to be fast paced. Instead, the first half was slow, sometimes boring and many times annoying!Yes, Adrian, I’m talking to you! You were my main issue!While Sydney has been locked up in a freezing and dark room with no clothes and be tortured, YOU were drinking, going to pa
“Sydney Katherine Sage, would you do a brooding, deadbeat Moroi the honor of being his wife?” 
I wish I could feel like this in the whole book, but that didn’t happen.It’s the fifth book, one before the end, and I expected it to be fast paced.
Instead, the first half was slow, sometimes boring and many times annoying!Yes, Adrian, I’m talking to you!
At least you fixed things on the second half of the book.
There you made me love you again.
I will, however, make an exception for you if you ever touch or insult my wife again” 
Plus <33333 for my lovely badass Rose who supported the Ivashkov couple!!!
I knew we were in for some major heartfail after that evil cliff-hanger of an ending in The Fiery Heart but I don't think I was fully prepared to feel so anxious and terrified for both Sydney and Adrian.
Between Adrian's self-destructive phase and Sydney having to endure horrific torture, this was definitely one of the hardest reads to get through, specially since I'm so attached to these characters.
I had a hard time stomaching most of it since I'm not one for torturous scenes, but at the end, I've never been more prouder of a character then I was of the way Sydney handled herself.
Okay, so I think I might just have overreacted a little bit because of that ending but I guess this book wasn't a solid 4-star read afterall.1.
He knew Sydney wouldn't give up on her so easily so why did he?3.
I know this book is supposed to be about finding Sydney and all but, I missed reading about Jill, Eddie and everybody else.So, those above were the things that stopped me from a giving this book a higher rating.
Don't made a mistake, though, I still liked this a lot!When things started picking up, I DIED.
Richelle Mead knows how to write books yo!
MARRY ME!"The kind where sometimes, you have to stop reading for a few minutes to hug the book to your chest to relish (and reread) what just happened.The kind that make your chest constrict with emotions, where you really feel the characters.The kind that make you want to kill certain people.Those are Richelle's books, and I FREAKING LOVE THEM!!This particular book.....well let's just say that every Sydney chapter I was so far at the edge of my seat, I'm surprised I didn't fall off and crack my coccyx!Last book left us on a cliffhanger.
I never really liked Bloodlines series from the start but because of too much free time at my hand and an insurmountable love for the author and *sigh* Adrian I read the last two books in a frenzy.
There should be a limit for that, you know?I should just stop writing right here coz I'll fracture my keyboard the way I'm typing.Don't even care when the next book's coming out but knowing my aforementioned 'insurmountable love' I might end up reading but I'm sure I'm really not gonna like it.Negative stars!
But what makes me really happy is that this series, despite its ups and downs is going into the right direction as I can freely say that for me this was the best book in this series till now.Glass: I know - times flies so fast.
You do remember that I was disappointed with previous book despite Adrian and Sydney finally getting together, but Silver Shadows managed to surprise me.
But we have to wait and see.But let's go back to the ending of this book for a moment, as it's actually the only thing that was a bit too much for me.
As you can see from my rating, I had a lot of problems with this book, and looking at everyone's very positive reviews I feel like something's wrong with me.
Since book four in this series, though, I've had huge problems with the way we start seeing things from Adrian's point of view.
Sydney started being affected by his crappy decisions and that ruined everything for me.
It kind of feels like Richelle Mead creates new problems just to keep the series going and I'm not a fan of it.
I'm absolutely disappointed with this book.I really enjoyed the first part of the book, yes it was slower than the second half but I liked seeing Sydney strong and brave and then..
I was very mad at the ending and the choice Sydney made.
I wont reveal any spoilers, but I didn't buy the cheap teenage-love Richelle Mead offered.
I truly hope that Richelle rewards her loyal readers with the sixth and final book in this serie, The Ruby Circle....*sigh* Guys.
I dint´t think the fifth book in Richelle Mead's bloodline series could possibly get any worse than The Fiery Heart cover.
If you read The Fiery Heart, you know what's happened to Sydney...now if only Adrian knew.
This book hits the ground running and we get to intimately know all the things going on with Sydney.
I just don't understand how come they weren't more sympathetic to Adrian.
Thank goodness for Dimitri...at least it seemed he was making an attempt.
Thank goodness we only have to wait until February 2015.
♥ “Because I don’t do things in halves, Mom. Especially when it comes to love.”♥ “Are you in a suit?” I managed at last, my voice choking up.
Knock yourselves out as the wait continues :)http://issuu.com/penguinteen/docs/sil...Edit: Thanks to the wonderful Alexandria, I have some new quotes!Quote 1"I took a deep breath and said: “I fell in love with a vampire.”And like that, I was blinded by light."Quote 2"Out of old habit, I put my hand on my collarbone, touching a cross that was no longer there.
Especially when it comes to love."And here's the link for chapter 1!http://richellemead.com/excerpt/excer...*******************Edit: IT HAS A COVER!
Meanwhile, Adrian clings to hope in the face of those who tell him Sydney is a lost cause, but the battle proves daunting as old demons and new temptations begin to seize hold of him.
These books just keep getting better and better.
I'm so freaking happy that someone told me about these books!So a lot has happened and I'm not going to spoil a whole bunch that did but just know that I fucking freaked out and fangirled(?) screamed for the ending.
Well, for the last couple of chapters really.
Just know that my ship, my all time ship in this series, is together.
FINALLY FUCKING TOGETHER.
I'm so happy that I have the last book too because I just need to know how this whole entire series ends!
I need to know guys.
That hope has dimmed more and more with each book after The Golden Lily; Silver Shadows killed it completely.I used to genuinely like Sydney Sage—back when she was an interesting character that drew the reader in.
Excellent job there.Add to that the fact that Rose is no longer written showing the character growth and maturity she gained through the last two books of the VA series—she's been written to correspond with the flop of a movie, so now she acts like a twelve year old.
Chapter 20...I'm in love with you.   This book is everything. I mean - if I had to be fussy - I guess the only thing it was missing was an epic smack-down between Sydney and Zoe... Some doubted the strength of Sydrian. But this OTP was too strong! The center held!  (For those of you know what happens in Chapter 20)(view spoiler)[When Adrian proposed to Sydney (whilst they're on the run from the Alchemists) I kept imagining that scene with Elizabeth Swan and Will Turner from Pirates of the Caribb
Chapter 20...I'm in love with you.
This book is everything.
I mean - if I had to be fussy - I guess the only thing it was missing was an epic smack-down between Sydney and Zoe...
Some doubted the strength of Sydrian.
But this OTP was too strong!
The center held!
(For those of you know what happens in Chapter 20)(view spoiler)[When Adrian proposed to Sydney (whilst they're on the run from the Alchemists) I kept imagining that scene with Elizabeth Swan and Will Turner from Pirates of the Caribbean: (hide spoiler)]Dear Richelle Mead.
After The Fiery Heart's ending I thought all was lost.
