https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25587.The_Second_World_War
Unless you're a very fast reader.I've seen criticisms of the work, something like the idea that Churchill sometimes implies (or even insists) that his own view of things, or his own role in bringing something about, is just a bit dismissive of other conceptions, or parts that others played.Such criticisms are, obviously (if they have any validity) the view of historians that have studied the second World War from a rather larger distance in time; whereas the time between the events Churchill narrates, and when he actually put his thoughts on paper, was only about ten years.
For quite some time I wanted to engage Winston Churchill’s extensive history and memoir of the Second World War. Before one begins the struggle with such a large-scale work, some planning is necessary, so the question was which edition it should be.
Somewhat more effective were the cleverly built-in jumps in time, forward or backward, but which could only slow down the overall advance a bit but not make it stop.In the end I managed to finished off about 6 divisions per day on average, or 66 regiments, which I consider quite satisfactory for this type of war.
Stari lisac je tako znao baratati perom, da je čak i djelo u šest tomova gušt čitati.
You may have to fight when there is no hope of victory, because it is better to perish than live as slaves." Looking back on the 1930s knowing what we now know, it is inconceivable that the entire world wasn't ready to battle Hitler immediately.
This volume shows Churchill's struggle to bring around a succession of prime ministers and other government ministers to the threat of Hitler.
Incredibly detailed and dense, this book has lead me to an overview volume on WWII so that I have more knowledge of the events about which Churchill is writing.
Churchill was at the center of the greatest war in human history and, in addition to being a masterful statesman, had about as good a command of the English language as any reader could hope for.
These books are his very personal history of the Second World War, being comprised in the main of his wartime memoranda and letters to the famous personages of his time -- Roosevelt, Stalin, his key subordinates, and many others -- and his commentary on those writings.
It is hardly objective, and is quite literally an example of how history is written by the victors, but it's a magnificent read written by one of the key figures of the 20th century.
I have read this series twice. Churchill writes well, and I love the detail. Self-serving, so untrustworthy, but still absorbing.

Super! Da sieht man, wieso ein Politiker den Literaturnobelpreis bekommen hat.
The history begins at the end of WWI and gives a brief overview of the political and social atmospheres that led to the breakdown of peace and the second world war.
He also expresses his determination at the time that Britain would stand alone to the very end in the event of the possible invasion of England.I was also intrigued by his account of the end of the war and the political negotiations between himself, Roosevelt (and later Truman), and Stalin about how Europe should be established post-war.
Brilliant. I loved The 'World at War' documentry tv series which got me interested in the subject, and hence my fascination with Churchill - especially the way he, and only he, stood up to Hitler for a whole year while England was getting bombed and the threat of invasion by the nazis hung in the air. The way he rallied the country was genius, and his work ethic and determination is inspirational. This edition also contains his famous speeches etc... if anyone wants to lern about WW2 - this is a good place to start.
I have an old set of this series by Winston Churchill that I purchased from an antique dealer on trademe.co.nz. Very educational account of the events of the Second World War and the events that led up to the Second World War. A privilege to read the words of one of the greatest leaders of Great Britain and the 20th century.
I always enjoy reading Churchills review of the Second World War. Winston had great insight into the coming clash and how it was going to effect the world.
I've just finished the last of Churchill's amazing six volume History of the Second World War. I strongly recommend it to everyone whose parents or grandparents fought or lived through that war.
How Churchill handled the whole thing as Prime Minister from close to defeat in 1940 to victory in 1945 is aweinspirig, whatever you think of him.
Volume 6,'Triumph to Tragedy' is aptly titled.
It is hard to believe the country voted him out within weeks of the victory in Europe, before the Peace Conference, before the post-war map of Europe had been settled, and Japan defeated.

This is Churchill’s six volume history of WWII – it kept me company while I was recovering from breaking my ankle.
It covers from the end of WWI through the immediate end of WWII.
It is extremely well-written and draws extensively from Churchill’s letters and notes from the war years.
I thought it could have done without some of the extensive correspondences related to arranging conferences and would have benefited from more discussion of the post-war arrangements (Churchill was voted out of office almost immediately, so I can see why he did it this way).
This is book is interesting to understand the perspective of the war from one of the 3 leaders of the Allies.
It's not a good read if you really want to understand the details of the war.
I read the abridged version put out by Life so that may explain it.
It helped me the understand the war from beginning to end but it made me realize I want to read about the war from the people in the war.
I want to read the stories about the people.
It's fascinating to read about the negotiations between Roosevelt, Stalin and Churchill and for that it's worth reading.
Disclaimer - I only listened to the second part - I had no idea there were so many more until I came on here to rate it. The second one was excellent. I did doze a bit through parts but only because I listened to it on a road trip with my husband and mother - sleep happens when you're not driving. My husband LOOOOOOVED it and got upset if I tried to pause it so I could ask a question or comment on the scenery.
For those who enjoy military history this is a masterpiece! In this collection, Churchill walked along the english backstages of WWII with a detailed set of his own memories and gathered a great set of documents which, together, told us how WWII developed itself. This work also shows the tight connection between political and military decisions leading us to understand how millions of lives can get into into a war in a matter of hours.
Even though Churchill is in love with the numerics of war (tonage of ships, material & arms, troops, etc.) These books have fascinating details, memos and such and interesting stories about Churchill's relationships with Roosevelt and Stalin, etc.. and it's history written from one of the participants(sometimes maybe it's myopic and self aggrandizing, but that's to be expected) and it reads like he speaks, which, of course, is wonderfully insightful and humorous.
This would be 5 stars just for the historical perspective alone. But then you have the written and orative grace of Winston Churchill and it's game over. Some day I'll read all six volumes, but this was a great way to get started. Churchill is certainly one of the greatest figures in modern history, and certainly of World War II. He was a lion.
It took me a few years and a stint of unemployment to finsih these - and yes, no surprise there, Winston oddly enough is biased - BUT the man's language is magnificent and as a historian closely involved in the events described he is less biased than many of his successors. Well worth the time of your life invested.
Churchill"s perspective is about as close as you get from being in the thick of the build up and eventual war itself. Candid and very insightful , giving the reader a feel for the difficulties of the decisions , right or wrong that had to be made . Very easy to read and entertaining as well .
This collection is more an autobiography than a history, but is a must read for everyone with an interest in history. Should then be followed by reading the biography of Churchill by William Mansfield and Paul Reid "The Last Lion."
I read every word of the entire 6 volumes. It took over six months but was well worth the effort. History unfolded before my eyes, memo by memo, speech by speech, set-back by set-back, until victory finally prevailed.
A 6 book series on the Second World War. A must read for anyone interested in this subject. The writing is dry & somewhat pompous, but the detail is fascinating.
The series is deeply flawed--simplistic, self-aggrandizing, and dragging at times. However, holy crap, the guy was there and in the middle of it. Read it to understand Churchill better.
When left to his own devices, however, he can, well, carry on and on and on and on- and that, combined with Churchill's own admission that the twelve volumes about The Second World War are about giving his own version of what happened to ensure the old phrase, 'history is written by the victors' is more or less the case.
By the final volumes of the series, you get a sense of how Churchill was starting to feel that British interests were being marginalized by the US and USSR, especially over the matter of Poland.
I loved Churchill's courageous, stirring speeches, his vital letters & cables to FDR & many others, the Allies' in-depth conferences & conversations, his memories about his friends & the people he knew, and his attention to detail about places, battles, diplomacy, & history (including other time periods) that he wove into his books.
Throughout the war, in each country that America & Britain liberated from Nazism or fascism, they worked hard to establish governments to maintain peace, democracy, & stability (as much as was in their power to do so.) After North Africa, they fought a long, hard fight, slowly, up the boot of Italy.
Finally, almost a year after D-Day, America, Britain, & our Allies victoriously overthrew the Nazis & began to establish peace.
By his own words it seems that once the final outcome was largely a foregone conclusion (shortly after the US entered the war) he became more problematic (at least for his allies).
From his and other accounts it appears clear that Churchill and Roosevelt’s close relationship at the start of the war became chillier as time went on.
Roosevelt and his advisors were unhappy with Churchill’s attempts to “drag the allies into the quagmire of the Balkans”.
When asked if this had been excessive Churchill replied, “Seems about right.”All of this takes nothing away from Churchill’s impressive role before and in the early stages of the war.
Anyone who likes reading about WW2 or wants to know the politics behind the battles, should start here.
I only gave it 5-stars bc it’s one of the earliest writings about WW2 written by Churchill while the events/situations where still fresh in his head.
I know the books published in the many years past these will have updated info, but the beauty is u would see the differences or was left out or not told.
When reading any book dealing with the Political side of WW2, don’t take what is said for granted, there’s always a story/reason behind the decisions.
