https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/295803.The_Face_in_the_Frost
Magic, in the world of Bellairs, is something that is first seen--particularly by the adept who knows what to look for--in a slight alteration of the landscape, or at least in the perception of that landscape: the way a particular light falls on a copse of trees, or the uncharacteristic shimmer of a stone on the periphery of vision, or the way a mysterious face may form on a window during a frost.The passage below is not only a good example of Bellairs' technique but also a commentary on it:“There were several travelers there from the North, and they were convinced that witches were at work in their towns.
Prospero and Roger Bacon are two elderly wizards in a fantasy realm of small principalities and feuding warlords.
I believe also that the more recent favorite by Sussana Clarke “Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell” was partially inspired by the characters of Prospero and Roger Bacon here.Let me say goodbye for now with another extract written in the alliterative style of Beowulf: My crest is cropped by croaking cranes!

The language is a wonderful mix of what one might expect from wizards well educated in the ways of many worlds.
In one of my favorite sections from the book, everyday life becomes sinister.In the roadside towns, the wizards picked up stories and  rumors.
One man told how frost formed on the windows at  night, though it was only the middle of September.
At dawn, the  frost melted, always in the same way.
At first, two black eyeholes  formed, and then a long steam-lipped mouth that spread and and ate up the wandering white picture.
In some towns, people  talked of clouds that formed long opening mouths...
Mark Monday's review brought this book to my attention. His review is perfect!All I can add: WTF? Did I miss something? Was this an allegory? Was this a deeper novel than I was able to understand? Evil wizard. Good wizard. Battle(s). Scary house...or estate...or...? All I can say is that I finished the book and eagerly looked to my shelves for another read.
Although this book is only 174 pages, it took me a long time to read it.
It seems to be that generic medieval-esque period of historical fantasy, yet the narrative is overflowing with anachronisms.
This is a story that it is helpful to read while a web browser is open to Wikipedia.org.At times a little dry and in other times really unsettling, and quite humorous in parts, this fantasy is about a smackdown between master wizards.
LeGuin says this book is "Aunthentic fantasy by a writer who knows what wizardry is all about." I'd have to agree with that quote.
Have you ever woken up from a deep sleep in the middle of the night and found that, for just a moment, your nightmares have bled into real life?
For a fleeting moment, things are just not right.
Have you ever felt that?I think that's the reason I love this book so much.
John Bellairs has managed to capture perfectly the ominous disorientation that I sometimes experience when I just wake up.
I first encountered Bellairs as a very young reader.
They were fun enough, usually about a young child that manages to stumble into black magic somehow.
The Face in the Frost is the only adult novel by John Bellairs, best known for his wonderful children's books (the best known of those being probably The House with the Clock in Its Walls), and it's good enough to make me wish very much that he'd written more.
This is no epic fantasy, but a deeply atmospheric and magical tale of the wizard Prospero and his friend Roger, who are attacked by a mysterious evil power.
Although it's widely considered a fantasy classic, The Face in the Frost is sadly out of print; if you run across a copy, snap it up and consider yourself lucky.
Bellairs's writing defies simple analysis.
There's a dose of fairy-tale wit in the language and some of the styling (at times the narrator speaks directly to the reader, as though you are being read to).
This would be pleasant in itself, to read of the entertainingly quirky house of a middling-powerful wizard, but then the story takes off with powerful and effective use of a sort of nightmare dream logic where reality becomes malleable.
Bellairs avoids gore, vulgarity, and violence and with these limitations builds scenes of real horror: they draw from the kinds of bad dreams that everyone has had.It reminds me somewhat of Jonathan Carroll, but more concentrated.

I just reread this old and faithful friend.
the magic mirror!
I LOVE the way this guy's mind works.
In his books, no fairy tale plot device is sacred.
He spoofs them all and makes the reader love it.
Seriously, this author knows how to twist a tale so engagingly that only a surly sobersides wouldn't grin and giggle.
I can't begin to describe his plots, which is good because that way the joy of discovery is yours.
This is the premier fairy tale for grown-ups, especially for those who love wordplay.
(This author also writes terrific YA and children's books.
A fantasy tale centering on two wizard's, Prospero (not that Prospero) and Roger Bacon. Weird and creepy things start happening and they set off to discover what is going on and ultimately how to stop it. This was John Bellairs only adult novel, most of his work was aimed at a younger audience.There is some nicely creepy horror in this book and some fun humor. One of the more unique tales I have read in a while.
Bellairs' riff on wizardry isn't full of flash and bang.
It is more a tone poem invoking a mood of (as Yoda might say) "a disturbance in the Force." Prospero and Roger Bacon are two friends in wizardry.
The story (a novella) concerns their explorations of the Kingdoms, the manifestations of evil, and their narrow escapes.
Bellairs doesn't do much to flesh out these Kingdoms, and for this story, he confuses the reader with references to other places (such as Wales and Scotland) and other times (of greater and lesser technology) that don't add to the plot.
So, I guess this book is often considered a classic, but I honestly don't get it.The principle characters are Prospero and Roger, two elderly wizards who are likable enough, but never really developed.
Some strange happenings occur in Prospero's house and the two, through no followable logic, assume that it is the doing of another nasty wizard named Melichus.The story meanders it's way through the rest of the book, never truly making its goal or direction clear to the reader.
The ending is lackluster and vague.I was really disappointed in this book.Don't even bother with it.
I've long been a fan of Bellairs' wonderfully creepy novels for children, so when I discovered that early in his career he'd written a fantasy novel (ostensibly for adults), I was eager to check it out.This feels like a first novel, or an early one, and all of the great elements don't always come together into a solid whole.
On the other hand, it's marvelously funny, and the wizards herein might remind some readers of Jonathan Strange and Mr. Norrell.
Definitely worth reading, especially if you enjoyed The House With a Clock in Its Walls and other classic Bellairs.
Not much of a plot in this book. Really, it's just two wizards bumbling along together and witnessing various magical and creepy events, but the language...ah, the language! It's lovely sort of cross between Tolkien and Rowling, hilarious and breathtakingly lovely by turns. I was going to trade this one in to my book-swapping club when I finished reading it, but I was so captured by the descriptions of the wizard's house and his interactions with his magic mirror (first chapter) that now I'm keeping this book forever for myself.
review to come.<3 Bellairs
This book pulls off a really unique combination: it manages to be a lighthearted, sweet story about friendship that also can be super spooky with fantastic evocative imagery. I really liked it.
Yes, YES! This is what I hope for while reading of wizards, anything can happen and often does. Compares to, "The Dying Earth," where magic is considered in most areas of world building.My mind was blown twice by this book, I could only mutter, "Wow," and probably not in the spots you might guess. This book uses my favorite mythic trope (view spoiler)[ instead of having one character being out of balance, the whole world is out of whack, (hide spoiler)] so what the characters do really matters.T
Compares to, "The Dying Earth," where magic is considered in most areas of world building.My mind was blown twice by this book, I could only mutter, "Wow," and probably not in the spots you might guess.
This book uses my favorite mythic trope (view spoiler)[ instead of having one character being out of balance, the whole world is out of whack,  (hide spoiler)] so what the characters do really matters.The warmth of the wizard's friendship is a huge bonus.This book features one of the greatest character reunions, ever.
One the most entertaining books I've read. It is a favorite that I return to frequently, like visiting an old friend. Silly, scary, and satisfying, all at once.
They embark on a quest to discover who is sending sorcerous warnings to and attacks at Prospero and to find a warping evil book.
As a result the book can change in tone from light whimsy to worrying horror from paragraph to paragraph.
The result is something quite unusual - particularly for anyone used to reading recent modern fantasy.
Although the book was Bellairs response to reading Lord of the Rings, Prospero owes more to T.
And the book is very slim - you could read it in afternoon.
An oddly refreshing piece of fantasy considering the year in which it was published and its formative place in the history of the genre.
Bellairs captures easily the sense of wonder and otherness that gravitates readers to fantasy in the first place.
The effect is stunning and serves to highlight something important about the world and its magic: beauty and horror are never far separated.Perhaps the most major issue with The Face in the Frost will be found in its conclusion, which can only be described as something of a deus ex machina.
5 hours, 26 minutesRead by George GuidallRecorded from cassetteblurb - The Face in the Frost is a fantasy classic, defying categorization with its richly imaginative story of two separate kingdoms of wizards, stymied by a power that is beyond their control.
A tall, skinny misfit of a wizard named Prospero lives in the Southern Kingdom a patchwork of feuding duchies and small manors, all loosely loyal to one figurehead king.
Hailed by critics as an extraordinary work, combining the thrills of a horror novel with the inventiveness of fantasy, The Face in the Frost is the debut novel that launched John Bellairs' reputation as one of the most individual voices in fantasy fiction.Wonderful.
a page-turning, funny, smart magical fantasy for children about the friendship of two elderly men.
i'm not sure how this ever got published--expect no one was paying much attention--and the date due slip in the front of my copy shows it has checked out 10 times since i learned how to read.
three of those times were inter-library loans.
i'm guessing at least some of us ten are or were children who didn't much like other children and read to get away from them.
the only thing that makes the face in the frost a "children's" book is the absence of sex and the J on the spine label.
The book description seems to put a strange emphasis on mirrors, and how they affect the personality (??) of the wizards.
Hmm, seems almost like a deliberate misdirection...This story reads like a children's story a la The Once and Future King--childlike on the surface, but genuinely scary and creepy in parts and not childlike at all.
I enjoyed it very much, especially the deep friendship and companionship between Roger and Prospero, the interesting conception of wizardry, the atmospheric creepiness.
A funny little detail: the moon in their world has a woebegone face.
This book is amazing.
I was totally enthralled and spooked by the Bellairs YA fiction I read as a kid.
The combination of his incredible style and the perfectly matched E.
Gorey illustrations in the Dial editions was so evocative, and communicated a pitch-perfect blend of melancholy and dread.
I found out about this book much later and had to track down a copy.
Geared towards the more general reader, it is almost more satisfying in some ways than Bellairs' classic works.
He creates a world you want to read about endlessly, but the fact that the book is so short is a positive in the end.
The book concerns wizards living in a fantasy realm that is supposed to be closely linked to our world in a late medieval/early Renaissance setting (mention is made of England and other countries of our world, yet the action takes place around two fantasy realms, the Northern Kingdom and the Southern Kingdom).
There is some really gorgeous prose, and wonderful conceptions of how wizardry works.
I found the overall plot a little muddy, but that hardly seemed to matter - it was just fun to read!
This remains and will always be one of the very few books that makes me want to read it again the moment I turn the last page. I wish there'd been more of it and that he'd finished The Dolphin Cross. I wish the plant monk and Mr Millhorn had books of their own. And if I like Bellairs' novels for children - and I do - it's due in large part to the faint traces of this book that I see in them.
A weird magical thing happens to them.
The magic has no specific rules to it that are ever really explained to us, so whatever happens you can be pretty sure that they have just the spell to fix it.
Why the fuck not?Pick one or all of the above, because it's the only answer you're getting.One of the wizards is given a key by a random bloke they meet, because for generations his family has known they're supposed to give it to a guy with a name that starts with P, and Prospero will do, I guess.
The key is useful in defeating the bad wizard, because of course it is.
This was an enjoyable read. It was a tale of two wizards, Prospero and Melichus, who had once been close, and a mysterious book of spells that Melichus had begun to translate. The book was an evil influence and turned Melichus on to the dark side of magic. Sounds a bit like any number of fantasy tales, yet this one had its light moments that brought a smile if not a good laugh. Oh, I should not forget to mention the magic mirror. LOL
