https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125549.The_Ghost_Next_Door
*Re-read: October 2016This one has one of the best endings in Goosebumps history. :)
#10 "There's a strange new kid on the block...."Hannah's new friend Danny is very peculiar. He falls from the roof and lands on his feet. He disappears Into thin air it seems. And the house he says he lives in is dark and empty. Almost as if a ghost were living there... I loved it!
What does it want?...In a shocking surprise twist, we realize that (view spoiler)[ Hannah is the ghost, not Danny.
he and his thug friends end up setting fire to a crotchety old man's home and she saves Danny's life by helping him escape from the burning building.I liked Hannah's slow realization that she's the one who's dead - not Danny - and the way she amps up her courage by saying, "I'm a ghost, I can do this, I can't die again, these flames can't really hurt me." It must be hard for her, but she is very brave.
I was so surprised by how good it was, especially comparing it to most of R.L.Stines other books.
I'm not into the horror genre, but I read a lot of his books anyway when I was younger.
This was one of the few I actuallly liked.
The ending was really surprising and sad.
:( I liked how it didn't end on a really annoying cliffhanger like most of his books seem to do.
It did end with a slightly unanswered question though.
I even liked how Hannah and Danny interacted with eachother.
Overall, it was a really enjoyable and good book!
Of all of the R.L.Stine books that I read, this one was my favorite. I still read it now and again. I won't give anything away- how wrong would that be?- but if I could, I would give this book to everyone- for adults it would only take about 3 hours to read. for kids- maybe 2 days (can you sit still? NO!) But it's my most cherished of his books- and I'll never stop loving it. :)
OKAY THIS IS THE WORST STINE BOOK EVER!!! Now I love Stine's fear street novels and so I thought why not give goosebumps a try and they stunk. IT SEEMED AS IF THEY WERE WRITTEN FOR KIDS!!!
This was a great Goosebumps book! I didn't see the twist coming at the end. Very entertaining read!!
I think that it centered around a seemingly normal girl appealed to me, and I remember the plot-twist ending caught me off guard.Listening to The Ghost Next Door as an adult it was no longer relatable and I was left with a girl with an annoying younger brother.
It was clever and well-played out, but it didn't hold the same awe it did as an eleven-year-old.Overall, I felt The Ghost Next Door was a good young adult novel and was wonderful to look back on, but I don't think it is a plot that would translate to adults otherwise.This review was originally posted on First Impressions Reviews
شعرت بشيء يجذب ساقها ويعتقلها في مكانها !""بعد أن أدركت سريعاً أنها قد تعثرت في خرطوم مياه الحديقة "وهكذا دواليك !!كُل ما يكتب حاجة تحسسك أنها بداية الخوف والرعب , وفي قمة حماسك تكتشف أنها ولا حاجة :\مش عارفة فعلاً هى السلسلة كلها كدا ؟ولا أنا اللى حظي وحش وبدأت بعدد سيء من وسط أعداد السلسلة كلها !!عموماً هكمل باقي الأعداد , وقتها أقدر أحكم على السلسلة ككل :)#المفروض_رعب
Ό,τι έχω γράψει για τα προηγούμενα βιβλία της σειράς που διάβασα μέσα στην χρονιά, τα ίδια ισχύουν και για το συγκεκριμένο. Ευχάριστο και ψυχαγωγικό ανάγνωσμα, ακόμα και τώρα που είμαι κοτζάμ μαντράχαλος. Και δεν το συζητώ, αν έχετε παιδιά και θέλετε να έρθουν σε επαφή με το είδος της φαντασίας και του τρόμου, με αυτά τα βιβλιαράκια θα κάνουν ιδανική αρχή. Ουσιαστικά έτσι ξεκίνησα κι εγώ. Τα τρία αστεράκια που βάζω σε όλα τώρα δεν σημαίνουν κάτι, απλώς δεν θέλω να αδικώ άλλα βιβλία. Αν ήμουν δέκα χρονών θα τους έβαζα τέσσερα και πέντε αστεράκια...
It was a nice middle grade book and I don't know if it's just because I'm older than the intended market but the ending was so obvious I knew it was going to happen from the beginning but I think maybe for younger readers it wouldn't be as obvious..
Regardless of this I couldn't remember anything about the plot, but my subconscious did and kept whispering, "Wouldn't it be cool if...?" My subconscious seemed to remember this quite well from my childhood because all my predictions were spot on.So, I was able to figure out the "twist", but I didn't find that my sleuthing abilities rendered my reading of this Goosebumps novel.
I'm not the target audience, but I believe I enjoyed just as much as an eight-year-old would have.The basic premise of The Ghost Next Door is that Hannah is spending her summer all alone without her friends.
I actually didn't know how it was going to end.
I really thought that (view spoiler)[Danny was the ghost!
(hide spoiler)] And then with the fire, I thought (view spoiler)[that it was somehow replaying her death, not that she saved Danny so she could go into the light.
(hide spoiler)] And I liked that ending, finishing up with (view spoiler)[Danny's (hide spoiler)] POV.
But I wish we'd gotten an epilogue showing (view spoiler)[how he remembered her or something.
(hide spoiler)] Lucky I read this when I did for a challenge, as I'm going to be getting rid of this series soon.
This was my favorite Goosebumps book! Really unexpected ending, kind of sad. It really stood out against the rest of the series. Good stuff!
I wanted to re-read some Goosebumps after seeing some beautiful bookstagram posts, so figured where better place to start than the one I read first all those years ago.
I distinctly remember this and Welcome to Dead House scaring the shit out of me as a kid, and reading this now I wonder why because The Ghost Next Door is basically casper, what the hell was I scared of?!
Looking forward to re-reading some more of my favourites, 'Be Careful What You Wish For...', 'Welcome to Camp Nightmare' and 'Don't Go to Sleep!' are definitely on that list.
یادش بخیر این داستان رو شب ها قبل از خواب مادر برای من و خواهرم میخوند
Really fun and easy to read. Has a nice twist almost at the end, which was really fun to read. I missed these short and fun books.
Soy una gallina, nunca he sido buena con las historias de terror y de pequeña el opening de escalofríos era suficiente para no querer ver el resto del programaSoy tan asustadiza que nunca me vi Chucky, ni Freddy, ni nada.Este libro es de rapida lectura, interesante y con una que otra sorpresa, aunque no me aterrorizo (lo cual para mi es bueno) tuvo su buena dosis de misterio y aspectos paranormales.Me hubiese gustado leerlo en mi infancia.
إتفرجت على فيلم زمان مش فاكره إسمه الحقيقه ، كان فيه شبح بنت طيبه بتظهر وتساعد الناس زى هانا كدا ، وعلى الرغم من إن إخواتى كانوا مرعوبين ومعرفوش يناموا إلا إنى كُنت مبسوطه وكان نفسى يبقى عندى أنا كمان شبح علشان يساعدنى ، بعد كدا ظهر كارتون دانى الشبح وإرتبط الإسم دا معايا بالأشباح دايمًا ، حتى فى القصه دى أول ما هانا شكت إن دانى شبح ، خلاص أنا حزمت أمرى وفضلت طول القصه مش عارفه أصدق عكس كدا ، المُهم قصص الأشباح حلوه جدًا والقصه دى بالذات مُمتعه وخفيفه وأنا حبيتها .
Αυτή η ιστορία είναι από τις πλέον αγαπημένες μου της σειράς. Για κάποιο διεστραμμένο λόγο, βαθιά μέσα μου, έχω συνδυάσει τα τρομακτικά και spooky στοιχεία της με κάποια άλλα, πιο ρομαντικά. Άλλωστε, ο φόβος και η αγωνία και με τα κάπως πιο βαθιά, εσωτερικά και συναισθηματικά σκιρτήματα, ήταν ανέκαθεν έννοιες που πορεύονταν παράλληλα, αρκεί να υπάρχει κατάλληλο έδαφος για να καλλιεργηθούν σε κοινές πορείες. Και η προκειμένη περίπτωση είναι μία από αυτές, εξού και την λατρεύουμε.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsNot as creepy as The Headless Ghost and I was able to guess the ending after reading about a quarter of the book. So, it was fairly predictable. However, it was well written. Even though I wasn't creeped out, I found the story to be sad. It was cool to see a feel good ghost story instead of a scary one.
This was actually pretty good. I think this was the first time I've read this one but it definitely was worth the read. I saw the twist coming but I like how it was written! Overall it was an interesting story and it made me want to start recollecting all my goosebumps books.
School is out for the summer, most kids went off to camp to enjoy their summers but not Hannah her parents couldn't afford it so she had to stay home.
Time went on and no letters came and that is where Hannah became frustrated and bored.
One day she was out and about and she ran into Danny.
She doesn't see Danny very often and things seem very strange.
Hannah can't figure out who Danny is and how she doesn't know his friends especially since they go to the same school.
Weird.
The weirdness continues and eventually the truth comes out.
A thrilling ghost story from the Goosebumps collection. I did figure out the big "plot twist" way before the characters saw it, but that's okay. It has a creative concept, really.I think I most liked the areas in the story where Hannah shows fear of fire, a very rational fear that most readers can identify with. But more than that, she shows more emotion that what we usually might see in one of these books, and for me, that intensified the story for the better.
I liked this book because it was surprising. This book is scary book because you don't know wats going to happen next. This book would be perfect for forth graders. If you like this book you will like other goosebumps books. This story focuses on a girl who thinks her nabor is a host
3.5 StarsI saw one of the big reveals coming from about chapter three, so that part was only okay for me. It took a long time to get to that point, and then we get another reveal which was much cooler. This has a really creepy element to it that stands out compared to some of the others.
YO le doy 4 estrellas porque el final casi no me gusto, no pudo quedar así como quedo
SPOILER: Un mojón para El Sexto Sentido y otro para Los Otros. este libro tiene el mismo giro final y es de 1993.
«Boquiabierta por el pánico que la embargaba, Hannah vio unos ojos rojos y brillantes que relucían como ascuas en la oscuridad.—Hannah… —susurró la sombra—. Hannah…"¿Qué quiere de mí?"Se esforzó en seguir pedaleando, pero las piernas no le respondían.—Hannah… Hannah…El áspero susurro parecía rodearla, envolverla en terror.—Hannah…—¡No! —gritó ella al notar que empezaba a caerse.Se esforzó en mantener el equilibrio. Pero era demasiado tarde. Ya estaba cayéndose y no podía detenerse.»
I really enjoyed this book. The big plot twist had me nodding in approval. Hannah is a character that has a lot of depth and I always like that factor. Read this book,it may not be your genre or age group but it is definitely worth it.
