https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/653047.Desiderata
But let not this blind you to what virtue there is; many persons strive for high ideals, and everywhere life is full of heroism.
And whether or not it is clear to you, no doubt the universe is unfolding as it should.Therefore, be at peace with God, whatever you conceive Him to be.
And whatever your labors and aspirations in the noisy confusion of life, keep peace in your soul.
With all its sham, drudgery and broken dreams; it is still a beautiful world.
It's beautiful.
Go out and buy a beautiful copy for yourself, or to give as a gift.
Beautiful examination of a life lived well.
Unlike many poets, Max Ehrmann's poetry is easily and immediately understandable.
I have had a copy of The Desiderata in my home for many years, a gift from my mother, but was unfamiliar with the poet/philosopher, Ehrmann.
The Desiderata is the first and opening essay or prose poem of a small book of Ehrmann's poetry.
Although I love the entire short essay, this is my favorite part:"You are a child of the universe no less than the trees and the stars; you have a right to be here.
And whether or not it is clear to you, no doubt the universe is unfolding as it should."
‘Desiderata’ (Latin – literally ‘Desired Things’) is a prose poem written by Max Ehrmann in 1927.Sadly (as is so often the case) ‘Desiderata’ was practically unknown in the author’s lifetime, only gaining recognition and acclaim following various recorded spoken word versions made in the 1970s.
Whilst occasionally treading a very fine line, Ehrmann has successfully created a piece that manages somehow to avoid being what could quite easily have been trite, clichéd, pretentious or portentous.
Instead, ‘Desiderata’ is an accessible, meaningful, effective and affecting piece of work.Ehrmann has succeeded, where so many have failed since, in creating a piece about taking the right path in life, about living well – which is simply, wisely, poetically and memorably delivered.
"No doubt the universe is unfolding as it should."
I needed to read something today that reminded me that the universe is unfolding as it should. Sometimes it just doesn't seem like it is. I remembered this prayer, or poem. and found it on the internet. I needed something a little special tonight. My husband died yesterday and I feel like he sent this to me tonight.
This is better than any self-help book, any religious advice, anything a therapist could say. Those poems are the best instruction on how to live a good, honest, happy life. Ehrmann was wise way beyond the time he lived in.
I first heard about Max Ehrmann's "Desiderata" poem when at I was at a friend's house.
We were sharing favorite poetry and she ran upstairs to get a framed poem that was sent to her and her husband when a relative in Norway had passed away.
The family said his grandmother read the poem each night before going to bed.
As I read the poem I really felt it was truly a timeless piece!
I always think of my mom when I read this.
I can hear her voice in my head, "Show mercy, Suzanne." In this world it is hard to show mercy to every fool who cuts you off on the road then flips you the bird, but it does make life easier to live.
Being merciful allows me to live my life without feelings of anger and resentment at the strangers' whose stories I don't know; and according to Ehrmann "you have a right to be here."Knowing other people can see life beyond all the bad in it is an inspiring feeling.
Yes, "it is still a beautiful world."
A poem written by, I believe, a young lawyer around the year 1927. A reading recommendation given to me by a friend of mine living in the U.K. who is a convert to my faith. In the poem's simple words, is a basic out-line of the gospel truth. Parts of it come a little short. However still, a very commendable reminder of how one should approach each day of their lives.
This is such a beautiful poem and I love everything about it. It's not about one religion. It's open-minded. It's inspiring and it's peaceful. And it's a reminder of how we can all become much more at one with the Self.
I needed to read something today that reminded me that the universe is unfolding as it should. My husband and best friend died yesterday, and sometimes I just don't feel like things are supposed to be the way they are. I feel like Max sent this for me to read today.
This book is simply one poem, but it's quite serene and dispenses significant insight. Do read it. The poem also came into my life in a rather strange way. You can read the poem and the story of how it "found me" twice here, if you so desire:http://www.refinethemind.com/desidera...
I read this ages ago. I have a plaque with it on the wall in my bathroom, so that I can read it while I'm getting dressed every morning. Beautiful!
Perhaps one of the most beautiful words ever woven by man. I enjoyed reading his musings for it grants me a dose of humility.
This most perfect collection of poems you could ever wish for. Picked it up from a rare bookstall on the market and read it whilst I was locked out of my house ^_^
The poems in this book are wonderful, very thought provoking and just beautiful. I recommend it to any poet who enjoys romanticism and philosophical views on life.
A nice devotion, though marred by a couple wordings that I personally change anytime I read it. Still, considering it came from the 30s, very inspiring.This particular edition is illustrated rather a bit too simply for my taste.
The poem has provided me the best guidance in life. I read it a couple times a year to keep everything in perspective.
Simply amazing
Unlike many poets, Max Ehrmann's poetry is easily and immediately understandable. Lovely, so lovely. :)
I was given this book by a close friend when I was still a teen, and I can honestly say that I have thought about its passages many times over the years.
It's a book of very few words (if you typed them all out, they would fit on a single page) but the wisdom and guidance in those words is quite powerful.I have made decisions, important ones, during my lifetime with the words from this book consciously in my head at those moments.Okay, enough of my opinion.
Read it.
And if you're lucky, it'll have a powerful effect on you, too.
I was given a copy of this wonderful prose poem by my ex-fiancee a few years ago.
I had first discovered it many years before that.
It is full of wisdom and good intention, a valuable, if simplistic, moral blueprint that we should all try to live by.
As for my ex-fiancee, she was even more wonderful, and remains the most special lady in this universe or any other.
I hope this proves that I am living by the Desiderata !!
As it says "Neither be cynical about love; for in the face of all aridity and disenchantment, it is as perennial as the grass".
Antara buku yang saya baca kelmarin di librari. Gabungan seni kata Ehrmann dan seni foto Tauss yang indah sekali dan saling beresonan. Di belakang buku ini terdapat testimoni dari seorang doktor yang menurutnya beliau banyak menggunakan kata-kata Desiderata di dalam kerja hariannya di klinik. Penutup buku ini bagai mengiyakan tindakan saya menghabisi waktu cuti sakit di librari.Disyor baca!
A gentle contemplation of the world which encourages a serene and aesthetic outlook without being naive or airy-fairy. Having said that, it sometimes borders on being twee and corny, but perhaps that's just the cynicism of the postmodern age colouring my perspective.
Thanks to Samuel Barnett for recommending this poem in an interview. Short but sweet, as life often is.
Go placidly amid the noise and haste,and remember what peace there may be in silence.As far as possi
I stumbled across Max Ehrmann from a video Blog - not Mr. Ehrmann who has passed. This is his best know work and I found it engaging and thoughtful. Here is a portion:"Go placidly amid the noise and haste, and remember what peace there may be in silence. As far as possible without surrender be on good terms with all persons. Speak your truth quietly and clearly; and listen to others..."
With new illustrations on virtually every page and a striking new jacket, this is a Desiderata for the '90s. This classic book of inspiration has sold more than 190,000 copies and continues to give comfort and cheer to new readers year after year. Recommend reading this as well https://besttrackingapps.com/hack-fac...
I found my new recommendation for everyone I know.
