https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1376332.The_Headmistress
Her observations are clear and pointed, her language is limpidly simple and direct, and all in all her books are a great pleasure to read...if you like this sort of thing.I do.This entry into her series presents a wartime Barsetshire that, like all of England, is undergoing a massive reorientation of its social compass.
It makes her a delightful character to follow, and within the novel itself, makes her a welcome addition to the closed world of county society in Harefield.Why should modern readers, sixty-five years on, read a book like this, by a nearly forgotten second-rank commercial writer of a bygone style?
The novels by Thirkell through witty fiction show us many important and worth remembering things about humans.I loved Mrs. Belton as a mother, to tell you the truth, I like most of Thirkell's mothers.
I really really hope they will be more of them in the future.]Here is an example of Mrs. Thirkell's wit from this book:"Do you really never remember a mother?" said Elsa, leaning against the pantry table while Captain Hornby washed his hands."Really not," said Captain Hornby.
Mrs. Belton, to all intents and purposes seemingly unflustered and stable, inwardly quakes at the fears and anxieties the war brings, not only for her children serving in the military but for her husband who must weather the straits his finances have brought him to and adjust to village life, leaving his estate to be rented out by a girls school.“All three children ought to have married years ago, but they never seemed to want to.
Even though these books were written in the 1930s and '40s I find them timeless because of Thirkell's affectionate and devastatingly honest insights into human nature, as in this passage describing Mr. and Mrs. Belton's reaction when their son comes home on leave:"This pleasant warm content was suddenly broken by a shattering noise outside the house and a violent ringing of the telephone...They now heard...the well-known voice of their younger son Charles.
In the midst of World War II the Beltons have fallen on hard times.
With the three children grown and doing important war work and money tight, the Beltons have let their estate to the Hosiers Girls School.
The Beltons are renting a cottage on their estate belonging to the heir of the late Mrs. Admiral Ellangowan-Hornby, Captain Hornby.
Mrs. Belton is related to half the families in the county.
Mrs. Belton is a little bit vague but mostly kind so I didn't mind her too much.
The eldest son was a bit too kind and charming to awkward school girls but not as horrid as his brother and sister.

The best of hers so far that I've read.This book is charming, witty with her world of cultivated gentry with terrific comedy of manners.I loved it!My second hand copy came from America as it's out of print which is such a shame.It has the most stunning cover.Mariana by Sir John Everett Millais.
Not exactly a keeper, but nice and amusing. I wonder what it was like to write in wartime, without knowing when it would end? Or how.
One of Thirkell's best.
A headmistress shepherds her students through several campus relocations; a landowner frets about the lack of resources to maintain his estate; a mother worries about her three grown children -- two enlisted sons and one daughter working a very important hush-hush job.
Thirkell does it all with a splash of humor.
The self-made factory-owner's clucking over his motherless daughter.
Mrs. Updike, who is always recovering from some minor domestic accident.
The most memorable scene (for me, anyway) is when the Updikes are forced to dig up a small non-perishable food store, buried in the garden in case of invasion, because Mr. Updike has driven a wooden tree-stake into the container.
The point of view shifts back and forth mainly between Mrs. Belton, a sensible, gracious woman trying desperately hard not to be too sentimental about her children as they face dangers inherent to their war work, and Miss Sparling, the headmistress of said girls' school.
Except for maybe Commander Belton, the oldest son of the family, who deals with his own personal tragedy in a very stiff-upper-lip way, and treats Heather, the schoolgirl with a crush on him, as humanely and compassionately as can be imagined.
The first book I've read by this Angela Thirkell, I found at first it difficult to grasp with all the characters introduced in the first chapter.
The cast of characters is truly what makes this book a gem.Taking place in the fictional village of Barsetshire, England they are in midst of World War II.
The central family are the Beltons and their three children who lease out their estate due to financial difficulties to Miss Sparling, the Headmistress of the Hosiers Girl's School.
the Beltons then taking up residence elsewhere in town.
They, the headmistress, along with the other townsfolk commiserate over war rations and other simple trivialities that result in a pleasant read.
I'm torn. I really enjoyed learning about the life during the war. And we're talking about real life here. Black market, black out, walking outside at night without light, bringing your own milk when you're invited to tea. It read as a non-fiction in some parts.I liked the story for the most part but there were characters that I wasn't interested in (Elsa) and there were characters I couldn't remember who they were. So it made some scenes flew over my head.And I noticed a lot of typos, between 10-15.
We meet Heather Adams here, and Mr. Adams whose word is as good as his bond also erupts upon the stage. The hapless Mrs. Updike, and the good solid Beltons. The headmistress does get her future tied up, fortunately, and we can be happy.
This is the first Angela Thirkell book I've read, but I'll be trying to find more. Her style is a calm, stream-of-consciousness burbling monologue, with a sly wit that will catch the reader off guard. Written in 1945 and set during WWII England, the war influences the actions of the characters, but doesn't take precedence over the storyline (the word "plot" seems too small for this book). The titular Headmistress is only a part of the whole, and the ending is a gentle slide into resolution. Highly recommended for those who do not need non-stop action!
This isn't my favourite of the series, but it's still pretty darn good. This has a displaced school, who have displaced a family and a whole array of complications to go with it. There's a lot less Mixo-Lydians than the last Thirkell that I read, which is a definite improvement and the humour made me giggle. The only reason it took me a little while to read because I didn't want to put it in my handbag and it end up getting all battered!
In many ways, this is a book of its time, written during WW2 and reflecting many of the attitudes and ethics of the day. Set in a fictional, quintessentially English country village with a cast of somewhat stereotypical characters, I described it to a friend as "Midsomer Murders" without the dead bodies! It is, though, an enjoyable read and a chance to escape the more hectic pace of life today.
So, while the school set up home at Harefield Park, the Belton’s take a very nice house in the village.The Belton’s three young adult children are all involved in wartime service, the eldest, Freddy is a Commander in the Navy, youngest son Charles in the Army – training in various places he is yet to be posted abroad.
Mrs Belton is fortunate that her three children are able to get home fairly frequently – Charles, a little irreverent, energetic and often wildly enthusiastic about something or other, he had for me a touch of the Tony Morelands about him, while older brother Commander Freddy Belton, is a more measured man, reflecting the experiences he has already had.
I really enjoyed this one. I didn’t want it to end! I laughed out loud several times, especially with Mrs. Updike’s accidents. There were so many likable characters and everything wound up most satisfactorily. Mrs. Belton was a good central character.
Really charming characters. Very enjoyable.
Unlike other other Thirkell novels, the characters in The Headmistress talk a lot about what class they are and what class other people are. And who has a bit of some better class in their distant background. And there's not only dislike for for female academics but disdain for female doctors as a group and for a particularly unbelievably written female doctor character. It's like Angela Thirkell forgot her usual deft way of drawing characters. Each one of the characterizations is belabored. A heavy-handed, dull novel that was hard to get through. Not one of Thirkell's best.
I liked it. Did not realize that although this book is a stand alone story it is best read in order of the "series". There are side characters and the town itself that are linked through the books even if the main characters and plot differ. Still, good read. Not quite as witty or entertaining as Wild Strawberries, but a unique read as it follows day-to-day life in a rural village in England during WWII.http://libraryhospital.blogspot.com/2...
This is Jane Austen for the mid twentieth century. A terrific comedy of manners with sympathetic characters set in England in the waning years of World War Two, an interesting historical time. Although this novel was written in 1945, the human condition is pretty much the same so that even though the social conventions have changed dramatically, the inner thoughts of the characters and their relationships to each other still ring true and with a great deal of interest to the reader of today.
This book, #13 in Thirkell's Barsetshire series, is a bit more of a stand-alone than the previous few... very little involvement of previous characters. I did enjoy the genealogical discourse early in the book about how two of the characters were related - one was descended from old Dr. Thorne who married an heiress, whose illegitimate niece married a Gresham whose sister was great grandmother of the other character!! Nice to see the Trollope connection :)
Another very enjoyable trip into wartime Barsetshire, this time focusing on the Belton family, but alao featuring Miss Sparling and 'the Pettinger' and a young Miss Adams as well as Sam of course. Comfort reading.
Re-reading A detailed and delicate portrait of what homelife was like in Britain during WWII. All the residents of Barsetshire County and their stories. You can really feel what it must have felt like to live then and have the world view of crumbling class structure.
Delightful! Just the thing to read when one is lain low with the flu.
(My edition is actually the Alfred A. Knopf 1945 hardcover, with an impressionistic sketch of the village on the cover.)
Wonderful writer, great first title I read by Thirkell, and surely not my last.
