https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294081.The_Mambo_Kings_Play_Songs_of_Love
It is with this sensuous imagery at hand that I selected Oscar Hijuelos' Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love as the next book in my ongoing Pulitzer challenge.
Regarded as a top band leader alongside Nestor, a gifted trumpet player, the brothers founded the Mambo Kings band and catapulted to the top of the Latin music circuit in New York during the late 1940s.
A story of immigrants who brushed with fame, were scorned by love, and maintained their machismo Cuban culture throughout their lives, The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love is a scintillating tale.
A plump, juicy, sexy tropical fruit of a novel!Its immediately evident why it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize; as a matter of fact, it comes from a proud line of family sagas-- all of them conjoined fatefully with the history of our nation.
The Castillo Bros.
("castle" siblings) are the Kings of their music and major purveyors of the Cuban-American Zeitgeist.
Of course, the story is tragicomic...
Yes, this one seems to have inspired later Pulitzer winners, such as "The Stone Diaries", "The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay", "Oscar Wao" & the music-heavy "A Visit from the Goon Squad."
I cannot BELIEVE this book won a Pulitzer.
I bought it because of the shiny red cover with the big silver medal-looking sticker on the front (yes, that is how I judge books).
The Cuban history/living in New York as a Cuban/music scene perspective was interesting, but it was overshadowed by the long, long, LONG woe-is-me sad-sack self-destructive fatalistic characters who were, for the most part, unlikable and unrelatable, and the pages and pages of sex.
Not sexy sex; DH Lawrence this is not.
It's more like forensic sex.
The Pulitzer guys certainly didn't agree with me.
While Cesar is a libertine who changes his women more often than his shirts, Nestor cannot recover from this first love affair, not even when he goes to New York, like many of his fellow Cuban artists, in the 1950'a at the height of the Mambo Craze in the American nightclubs, not even when he meets another beautiful Cuban immigrant and marries her, not even when, at the height of his succes, he sings with his brother in a Hollywood television programme about the pain of lost love in a melancholic bolero "Bella Maria de Mi Alma"Nestor remains distant, taciturn, tormented by absences, missing not only Maria, but also the land of his birth and childhood.
DNF - So disappointing. An extremely engaging six page intro leads into a choppy, entirely sex-focused story that fails to develop atmosphere or nostalgia the way the author intends. It felt like being stuck at a bar next to an old drunk dude wanting to tell you every detail of his life story: how he used to be a musician and slept with just about every chick in NYC at the time. Bully for you, guy. Can I leave now?
With mere words on a page, the author creates the melodies of the Mambo era, the smells of rural Cuban cane fields, the sweat of a dance hall, the swelter of a New York City summer.
The two main characters, Cesar and Nestor love in completely different, but totally compelling, ways.
For Nestor, love is an ideal, out of reach and cause for nothing but pain.
Cesar loves all of womankind with an unquenchable thirst.
If Nestor is a Keats poem, Cesar is a Marvin Gaye album.
If your greatest erogenous zone is your mind, read The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love.
Like clockwork, highly viscous, graphic coitus every 3-5 pages. Give that book The Pulitzer Prize!
This Pulitzer winning story of Cesar, the Mambo King, and his Cuban/Cuban American family was compelling although the narrative timeline was unnecessarily haphazard.
The third point is hardly unique to this book or many Pulitzer prize winning novels.I won’t provide a plot summary here but the fictional panorama that is drawn around Cesar’s life and the thematic ties to Cuba and immigration was convincing.
I think the Desi Arnaz connection to the brothers felt a little contrived or at least unnecessary.
I would have liked the book just as much without this tie-in.Four stars.
I guess there was a plot. But I think it was all a thinly veiled cover for writing about an old man's penis. Seriously. Every page includes some reference to this horny old man's sexual escapades. It's gross. And a little depressing. Which is...provocative. I guess.EDIT: I redacted my initial hatred-filled review. I might even consider re-reading this, from a non-sophomoric* perspective.*I was a sophomore in high school when I first read this and hated it...
Cesar Castillo, the Mambo King himself, is an old man, and is remembering his life (and loves) in Cuba and New York as he approaches death.
In the middle of the book is a quote that perfectly describes Cesar’s life: “Me siento contento cuando sufro,” he sang one day, “I feel happy when I’m suffering.” Cesar and his younger brother Nestor arrive in New York full of ambition and desire to be musicians.
Nestor is an incredibly talented trumpet player and songwriter, but he suffers from unrequited love for the woman who left him when he still lived in Cuba.
The main character in this book is an old guy drinking in a hotel room, and (to its credit, I guess) the book is a lot like being in a hotel room with an old guy: stories from his bygone youth, a few central events repeated again and again in different lights.
If you are the kind of reader who really likes to know how the protagonist's dick is doing, this book will be great for you, because there's a dick status update on just about every page.
Names of Cuban musicians and mambos from the 50s are dropped liberally throughout, and I looked up lots of songs from Perez Prado and others - that was the best part of the book for me.
Oscar Hijuelos is a truly gifted writer who makes a uniquely American experience and era of music come alive with a passionate honesty for which he is worthy of great credit.
There is an emptiness, a painful longing that can never be filled except by alcohol, music and love.
Hijuelos definitely understands the music crafted, like much great art, out of agony of the spirit.
Hijuelos seems to have brought some of his own cultural experience in New York into play with great conviction and depth.
After reading this, I couldn't help feeling that I never understood the main character, despite having gone through every significant episode of his life.
I suppose it would have affected me more if I were familiar with the mambo culture; perhaps I simply don't have the rhythm this book requires.
This is my first experience with Hijuelos, and I find myself wondering whether he's always so sex-obsessed.
There's nothing wrong with sex in a novel, especially if it's well-written, but there are other things to write about.One other note, the Perennial Classics edition I read was so riddled with typos that it became distracting.
I tried to like this book.
Partly because I find the Latin music sub-culture of the 50s a fascinating topic and partly because I do think Hijuelos has a fine style of writing.
However it is simply too repetitive and uninvolving.
I guess I'm supposed to like Cesar and Nestor but I never really find out much about them except they are talented musicians (yeah, I got that part in the first ten pages) and that they are good in bed.
I just expected more when someone takes the time to write a full novel.
But, honestly, I just didn't like it.
It tells the unflinching story of two brothers from Cuba, Cesar and Nestor Castillo, who come to New York seeking their fame and fortune as mambo musicians.
It was amazing to watch the brothers grow as the novel progresses, especially the melancholic Nestor who moves from being a love-struck fool in rural Cuba to manhood in Havana to fatherhood in New York.Not that Nestor is perfect.
Instead of confronting his mortality and lack of love head-on, he hides from reality in booze and empty sexual conquests -- which grow harder to pull off as he ages.
I had been longing to read your book for a long while.
I had you in my list of American Hispano authors to read.
The book is longish, repetitive.
A couple of ideas extended to become a long book.
I feel I read the same sentences several times.
Anyway, with the story coming back again all the time and all the descriptions of the fabulous artillery of the Mambo King and his sexual power only added to it.
There were few pages when I really felt inside the book and I did all my best to read several books at the same time to escape from the boredom of just reading this one.
I lost count of the number of women Cesar, the elder Mambo King, bedded in this book and I was envious of his glorious “member” which seemed to be the only thing standing (well, almost) while all his other organs had collapsed.The narrative jumps points of view frequently, as if mirroring Cesar’s scattered thoughts, but as there is no plotline as such, just Cesar’s odyssey from Cuba to a hotel in New York, it isn’t hard to follow.
Yeah, it's about excess, but it's a bit...excessive.
At least two or three times he mentions the man's 'thick tongue' in describing a kiss. Weird.If you like to read horrible books that won big prizes (Pulitzer), read this one.
Really Pulitzer committee? Really?
It reads like a telenovela on the screen and pulls you in, convincing you of the time, place and action of the story.
The circular trajectory of the story serves to reinforce the central tragedies of the novel, and brings home the idea of being lost.
No one has a happy home life, at least not for very long.
It's hard to actually be happy with what you have, even if you have almost everything that you want.
We're conditioned to always want and expect more, and the book seems to make you question whether that's really a good idea.
He has his music, his love for his family, his brother, his friends, work....but mostly you will hear about his sex.Nevertheless, I found this book very well written, and here I am in the middle of another book and still coming back to comment some more on my review, still watching mambo videos on you tube.
Neither is a happy man however; Nestor pines for an old girlfriend, who left him in Cuba and married her old boyfriend, even though he marries a loving and patient woman in the U.S. and fathers two children with her.
The two main characters, Cesar and Nestor love in completely different, but totally compelling, ways.
For Nestor, love is an ideal, out of reach and cause for nothing but pain.
Cesar loves all of womankind with an unquenchable thirst.
If Nestor is a Keats poem, Cesar is a Marvin Gaye album.
If your greatest erogenous zone is your mind, read The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love.
If living a life that is drenched in passion and pleasure to it`s fullest capacity is a belief you subscribe to, read this book.
I almost quit this a few times in the first 50 or 150 pages, and I guess I'm glad I didn't.
That includes all of the sex scenes (which make up about 30% of the book), and the narrator's really weird and disturbing fixation on the protagonist's member (which take up about another 10%).
But the other 60% was amazingly good, beautiful, evocative, lyrical, excellent writing about NYC in the 1950s and 60s, and Cuba in the 1930s and 40s.
Too bad, because a lot of this had 5-star potential, I thought.
The Mambo Kings Sing Songs of Love is the story of two emigre brothers who move from Cuba to NYC in 1949.
The story follows their struggles, their triumphs, their illusions, and their disillusions.The characters are developed with sensitivity and pathos, real people with all the achievements, disappointments, foibles and contradictions we have become accustomed to in our own lives.
All of the senses are stimulated as the rich settings are developed: rural Cuba, New York clubs, stuffy apartments, lavish estates, scary streets.
Particularly notable are the Thomas Wolfe-like catalogs; food, people, places.
Being Cuban-American myself, I was eager to read this book.
I struggled with it.
I think it was because Mr. Hijuelos writing style is not for me.
Maybe fictional memoirs are not for me.
There were a few interesting parts, but for the most part it was very slow and dragged on.
Also, I would have to say that not all Cubans have sex on their minds 24/7.
I think that Cubans are very passionate people and like to romance.
This book did show some of that romance, but most of it was geared to the physical aspect of love instead of the emotional side.
This is a rich and sorrowful book, filled with longing, regret, heartache, and loss.
The depiction of Latino life and culture could have been exceptional, but was ruined by the never-ending stream of machismo and male sexuality.
And the repetitive telling of the 'I Love Lucy' scene made it seem that I was reading the same story over and over.
I get that it was a significant event in their lives and careers, but it was just too monotonous.
I had to force myself to finish the book, and was glad when it was over.
The melancholy was a result of his lost love back in Cuba, a woman whom he celebrated in a bolero called "Beautiful Maria of My Soul." Over the years, he would constantly rewrite that song, finally ending with 22 different versions of it.There were plenty of examples of Cuban musicians who had made it in America that the Castillo brothers could emulate.
By the 1950s, of course, he was perhaps most famous as the husband of Lucille Ball and as "Desi" on "I Love Lucy."In the '50s, the Castillos and their orchestra, The Mambo Kings, were establishing themselves in New York.
Oscar Hijuelos' Pulitzer Prize winning book  The Mambo Kings Play Songs of Love  is one of those that you'll either find to be colorful and lyrical, or confusing and monotonous. For this reader, this book falls into the first category, a rediscovered treasure read originally years ago and found here once again. It's my third copy over the years since I bought it originally early in 1990.Author Hijuelos tracks a family from one country to another through the world of and a culture from one world
It's the story of Cesar Castillo, an elderly musician who once in his life enjoyed some moments of musical celebrity, and chronicles his last hours as he sits in a rundown hotel room, drinking and listening to the old records made by his band.In 1949, Cesar and Nestor Castillo were just two of a multitude of Cuban musicians who came to New York City to seek their fame and fortune as musicians.
And in 1955 their time of real glory arrives, when Desi Arnaz hears them performing in a New York dance club, and invites them to appear on his ''I Love Lucy'' television show, playing his cousins.Sadly, that was their fifteen minutes of fame.Oscar Hijuelos scores the lives of the Castillo brothers, their families and their friends with numerous emotional tempos.
Well, this was a tough one, I wanted to give up so many times. While reading the book there was a big contradiction in my mind between the feeling that life is easy(created by the description of New York in the summer and the scenes in Cuba) and heavy melancholy, just wanting to get over with it(created by almost all of the human characters). At the end, if I would have to choose, I would keep the landscapes and times and just throw the people out.
