https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112517.Rama_Revealed
Read the first book in this series and don't waste your time with the rest. This fourth in the series was a slog from beginning to end, with lots of lame dialogue, pointless detail that never goes anywhere, and a disappointing ending.I wish I'd just left it at Rendezvous with Rama, which is vintage Arthur C. Clarke. (That book is worth 20 of these sequels!) Lesson Learned: Never trust a book with more than one author.
Everytime i think of good scifi i remember the ending of this story.Not only garden of rama and this conclusion rama revealed are incredibly imaginative and totally epic in scope and detail, but all is grounded in unforgetable characters that i loved to accompany till the very end.Rama revealed has some imaginative concepts for a technologic "god"if you want to call it that, while at the same time keeps everything grounded in rhe humanity of the characters.The rama series are the best spaçe adventure i ever read.
My heart broke during the last book, but not because of some outstanding SF qualities of the story, but rather the particular story of one character - Nicole des Jardins, a woman who has had to leave children behind on other planets and space ships, has had to watch a daughter commit suicide as well as the love of her life die a painful death whilst being assassinated, and has slept for many years of her life in a special trance, waking up 12 or 16 years older, having to eventually face the frail, dying body of an 80 year old woman, being told that she only has 10 days left to live...
The second book (Rama II) had some really interesting characters and settings.
[return][return]However, Gardens of Rama and this book both felt long and fell short of expectations.
There were some interesting parts, but it felt like it was rushed and not edited heavily enough.
Why were there humans in the zoo?
Which was the species in danger of extinction (Humans?
A nice feel of the main character getting older and older, which reminded me a bit of some older classics like Les Misérables.[return][return]I'd probably had liked this book more if I had been younger perhaps.
(Review applies to 'Rama II, Rama Returns', Rama Revealed', but NOT 'Rendezvous With Rama')In brief, longer review to follow: FUCKING AWFUL. Do not read. Terrible shame, the collaboration with Gentry 'What A Pitiful Hack Writer' Lee has really dragged the original Rama down.
I feel this and the other Rama books series except the first one are more like fan fiction.
Although fan fiction is not necessarily a bad thing, in the case of this series it went quite wrong.
I did not liked any of the original Rama follow-up novel.
It simply did not managed to win my sympathy, neither with the final part when the overall Rama secret is revealed.As I stated elsewhere, all readers of this review that plan to read this book please note that all of the above is my opinion only and as with any opinion, this is highly 
So, four years after my first attempt, I've finally finished the Rama series.
This book, the fourth and final one in the quadrilogy, is not the worst of the batch.
Certainly, the answer seems like an attempt to make the series seem more profound, but instead serves to trivialise life, religion, and our Universe as a whole frankly.The philosophical antics only arrive at the very end of the book, though.
This in itself is mildly interesting but doesn't really warrant the four hundred pages that it takes up.
After that there's a lot of complaints about being old and then the last philosophical twenty pages.
Rama Revealed is the disappointing conclusion to a disappointing series.According to Wiki: “Rendezvous With Rama was written in 1972 and Clarke had no intention of writing a sequel.
Lee attempted to turn the Rama series into a more character-driven story following the adventures of Nicole des Jardins Wakefield, who becomes the main character in Rama II, The Garden of Rama and Rama Revealed.
Clarke said that Gentry Lee did the writing while he was a source of ideas.”This could very well explain why all the books, with the exception of the first, are terrible.
The series started out with such a fascinating premise but it all ended with sex, violence, corruption and misunderstandings. I guess that's the message of the series: humans will always screw up Eden. Bummer!
The thing that is the worst is that the characters and the view of "human" psychology is extremely negative and dystopic, from the greed and avarice of those in the first novel to the hatred, warlike, not to mention horrible lack of curiosity about their environment, of those in the second novel, to the utter disgusting xenophobia of those in the last novel...not to mention the God stuff at the end of this novel.
Longer series have difficulty keeping me entertained, and perhaps that's just me placing a greater burden on the later books due to the expectations set by the first couple, but I don't think I'm alone in doing this for series.
At any rate, like Clarke's other series, this one slows down more with each additional book, and here is the point where the train finally slides into the station.It's definitely good enough that I wouldn't tell you to abandon the series before getting here, but there won't be many surprises.
Rama Revealed is the last book in this series and it couldn't have come sooner.
A space craft comes zooming into the solar system, answering the question "Are we alone?" but adds an additional question, "Does anyone care?" In typical Clarke fashion, the author takes us through what might happen if we only had a few days to explore a spacecraft that is clearly not interested in us and will be leaving very soon.The second book, "Rama II" was OK.
It should have been half as long.The final novel, "Rama Revealed" is better but it has a lack-luster ending.
Ugh. I should have put this series down after book #2.IMHO, Clarke's biggest flaw is his tendency to spend way too much time describing alien minutia that are not interesting or important.
Also, the main character has really worn out her welcome.
I'm just tired of her.
Not a good sign when you're hoping the hero gets pulled out an airlock so the story can just end faster.
I don't know why I finished it.
Maybe I was hoping for some interesting overarching idea of the alien "Ramans", but it was silly stuff about them being all-powerful-do-gooders and not very believable or exciting.
I recommend reading the first installment of the tetralogy as highly as I recommend stopping right there.
Though I can't say I regret finishing the series, it was indeed a painful experience to see the wonderful concept introduced by Rendezvous stretch into a flimsy and disengaging tale which drags on far more than its dramatic substance can afford to.
For me the main weakness of the second to fourth books was the authors' obsessive engagement with characters as opposed to Rendezvous' somewhat sober, hard-sci tone.
To use a motion picture analogy, if you consider the first book to be a serious feature drama, then the other three are average-quality soap operas.
Worth it to the end. Awe-inspiring, rich with multifaceted scientific speculation, imbued with all the fine ingredients of great literature.Give yourself time to end this book. Avoid distractions. The last chapters are best taken in while alone, with a nice cup of tea, and a box of kleenex.
I liked this end to this series better than the book before it. There is some interesting stuff about the structure of an alien society in here built on speculation about the future of genetic engineering. The part where Rama is revealed is pretty nifty and philosophical, too. Thankfully, there were much fewer flashbacks, but the book/series could have used stronger secondary characters.
It doesn’t matter really, because there’s no question that Rama itself is the main character of this book and the humans exploring it are almost incidental.All this is really background to my real reason for writing this review of the final book in the series, and really of the series as a whole—to illustrate the contrasts between the first book in this series, written solely by Clarke in 1973 as a stand-alone novel, and the three sequels, Rama II, Garden of Rama, and Rama Revealed, co-authored with NASA engineer Gentry Lee in the early 90’s.
There is a definite difference in tone and style between Clarke's original and these three Gentry Lee penned sequels.There were some decent moments and ideas there, but these were overshadowed by many frustrations: One scene for instance, was when "Richard" (I think), says, "We ate fruit or was it a vegetable, as these were unfamiliar..." Well, unfamiliar or not, did this edible plant substance have a, or any, seeds in it?
If you are satisfied with the direction that Lee took with the plot and you enjoy his slow plotting style and types of characters, his odd nerdy dialogue, then you will be satisfied with the way he brought this massive hulk of a story to its conclusion.


The fourth and final book of the Rama series.
This book continues to follow the colony that was established in the Raman spacecraft as it heads towards its final destination.
In this book, even more new species and adventures are encountered.
This book finally gives the explanation of the Raman spacecraft and the purpose of its missions.
Once again there are so many messages to take away from this book: from religion, to politics, to the human race as a whole.
You will not be disappointed in reading this book.
The last three books are a lot more character driven and mainly centre around Nicole Wakefield and her family.
It also explores human nature and whether we are naturally destructive and place ourselves above other species.(view spoiler)[In this book Nicole and her family go and live with the octospiders.
In this book Nicole has to watch a daughter commit suicide, her husband be assassinated.
Then she finds out her family is to be separated (one onto a ship where those with unacceptable behaviour go, and then find out her daughter and her husband have replaced her with a biot.The book is a bit dull in places.
i have been working my way through the series very slowly and finally got through this last volume.
We observe new colony of humans fall prey to the worst of human nature and learn more about the Avians and Octospiders, and eventually, more about Ramas purpose.The book was largely depressing, highlighting the problems in politics, and is a pretty biased view, but it continues the story of earlier volumes and gives a pleasing ending without trying to answer too many questions.
I wouldn't recommend this as a stand alone, but if you've enjoyed the rest of the series you should be left satisfied.
Parts dragged, but the overall scope was just awesome. I was somewhat confused, but I have not read the first 3 books, so I hope when I go back to them it will make more sense.
Apparently (due to some quick Wikipedia reading) Clarke originally intended to let Rama end there.
It was a sobering thought and point; it runs against so much science fiction that suggests that exploration will give us the answers we seek.Sixteen years later, Clarke teams up with NASA scientist Gentry Lee and over the next four years three more novels are added to the series.
The Rama I fan, of course, is elated because even though we can act mature and accept Clarke's original point about the limitations of knowledge, we really do want to know more.
A central theme in the Rama novels is that human sexuality drives all facets of our lives--our predilection to imperialism, excess, paranoia, and self-destruction being prime examples. The grand morality play that ensues strikes me as valid, but also tiresome and less fun than the original  Rendezvous With Rama . The above being said, I love a great deal about this final installment in the series. Some of the revelatory material is similar to that found in  3001 . It’s thought-provoking but far
The grand morality play that ensues strikes me as valid, but also tiresome and less fun than the original 
Rendezvous With Rama
. The above being said, I love a great deal about this final installment in the series.
The Eagle, a Raman ambassador of sorts, plays a very interesting role.
As often happens in life-spanning series, the final installment contains a lot of death and sadness, but also meaning and realization.
She helps me understand why old people are constantly telling anecdotes to young people.Gentry Lee develops another avenue of the Rama universe in 
The daring task of creating alien life forms that are not humanoid and do not automatically use verbal language as humans do, is in itself, a reason for praising this series.This book alone tackles the origins of the Universe questions, along with the traditional philosophical queries that follow, such as: Who are we?
Well, this book does an amazing job painting an intricate and mesmerizing picture with biology, physics, philosophy, religion and works with subvariations of psychological and behavioural themes (such as , what drives the human beings: love?
The action in itself so well unraveled and built up to an end game, a philosophical one.
Clarke doing more of the writing, but either way it's a good thing.I enjoyed the way that these last two books took time to explore each of the alien species inside Rama.
And that last chapter always makes me cry, I can't think of a better send off for that character in her live, a better good bye to her as a character from the perspective of the reader, and a better send off to the series in general.On a final note I really liked how the "final answers" provided by Saint Micheal and the Eagle were handled.
It took about 1500 pages from the previous books, but in the last 1/3 of this book, everything came together.
The first signs of conflict appear in the 3rd book but human conflict is seen as an aside, intruding on the "purity" of the science fiction.But in this last book I am struck by how awesome and incredible this breadth of vision is.
The first 3 books were really hardcore science fiction.
finally accepting our role in the universe as one among many.I wish I could share this with everyone but asking people to read 1700 or so pages (for the 4 books) is asking a lot.
This is the final book in the Rama series.We do get a lot of answers, but on a deeper level, this book was about so much more.We learn a lot about the octospiders and their civilization.
They have a lot of beliefs about using biology to improve their lives instead of electronics.
Instead, they consider each life to be something that contributes to the common good.The most fascinating thing about them is that they don't allow free will after a certain age.
Those who choose the society dedicate their lives to improving it.
