https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42898.Lover_Revealed
Here is my shortened version of the book:Butch: “My name is Butch and I feel like a cheap whore wearing clothes I didn’t buy and not paying rent and having no purpose in my life.
Hey Butch - what’s that black crap coming out of you when you bleed?”Butch: ”Well Marissa, I was taken by the lessers and tortured.
Maybe I am Wrath’s cousin and you guys could turn me into a Vampire and then I could join the Brotherhood and feel like my life has purpose and meaning?”Marissa: ”But I find that frightening!
4.5 Butch The Dhestroyer Stars  SpoilersFirst read 2014Reread 3/28/2017When I lie this close to you, when I smell your scent, when I hear your voice, I know everything that matters." She looked down the length of him. "You are the male I want to mate with. That's who you are."-Marissa J.R. Ward did it again. Lover Revealed is another riveting book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood Series. It has it all, a bumpy but beautiful love story, a damaged hero finding his way, a naive sheltered heroine fin
Butch/Dhestroyer and Marissa's book had so much going on, so many unexpected twists in it I never got bored.
Marissa loved Butch and saw his worth and strength when he felt weak because he was human for half the book.
Butch becomes a vampire in this book in a freaking scary ass way and becomes a true Brother.
Xhen, John Matthews' future shellan is in this book, but she hooked up with Butch which I really didn't like.
Below my favorite moment in this book and yes it's from my Z!The Brother's bonding scent filled the foyer, just as his low, lion like growl did.
It's crazy, I know that...but I can't help myself!!! I keep rereading this series over and over again and never get tired or bored with the books. It's become my book addiction...truly!!Just as before...I love this couple. Butch & Marisa are just so well-suited (right,...what an old-fashioned word that is..but just so true!!)  I love thisOne of my fav couples in this series.And yes...I will read this book again...and again!!!!2nd ReviewRereading due to my BDB SERIES CRAZE.....each waking hou
I love thisOne of my fav couples in this series.And yes...I will read this book again...and again!!!!2nd ReviewRereading due to my BDB SERIES CRAZE.....each waking hour of my day is filled with the world of the BDB.....and finishing this book I was even more crazy for these two...Butch and Marissa....and V's little obsession for B and his kinky sex life didn't irritate me as much....still love the guy though....he's such a BADASS.....I have rated this book 5 stars because I found myself enthralled by this story than before...so onto the next book........1st ReviewAfter meeting Butch O’Neil, a tired, hard drinking, burnt-out cop and Marissa, an aristocratic vampire in the first book of this series, Dark Lover, I was looking forward to reading their story.I love Butch….his love for designer clothes, his relationship with the Brotherhood – he has given up his old life and since discovering their secret when he helped Wrath and his wife Beth, is living with the warriors.
"United by their clasped hands, they became again the two halves, the light and the dark. The Destroyer and the Savior. A whole."  I admit, the first time I read this book I gave it 4 stars. But after my re-read, I loved it so much that I had to change my rating to 5. Just an awesome book :)The storyButch is getting sick and tired of being on the outside when it came to the Brotherhood, and he jumps in the opportunity to save a civilian from the lessers.That only gets him taken by the bad guys
Marissa doesn't want Butch to fight because she's afraid he'll get hurt or die when he's with the Brothers hunting.I think she's the first female that feels this way and I'm glad cause it makes the whole thing very realistic.
Considering how late to the BDB party I am, I'm not going to write a review on this book. This is just a "collection of my random thoughts" so I can keep the story straight in my mind, and therefore it's bound to be full of spoilers. If you haven't read this book yet and don't like being spoiled, stop reading this "review" now. I'm not kidding!Okay, here I go...When I finished Lover Awakened, the previous book in the series, I didn't feel much compelled to keep going with the BDB books. I mean,
I mean, I really liked the 1st 3 books, but I didn't think that Butch and Marissa belonged together and wasn't that interested in reading about them.
At one point, I started to think that V was just pathetic, and that isn't a good thing considering his book is the next one in the series.Anyway, back to Butch and Marissa...
After all, this is the same author who didn't hesitate to kill Wellsie in Lover Awakened...A BDB book isn't only about the main H/h, so Lover Revealed wasn't only about Butch and Marissa.
It was mr sweet, troubled loner (Zsadist) that screwed with my head and had me hoping this series would blow my mind in a similar way to the Fever series (I know how surprised you must be seeing as I rarely mention Mac Lane, Barrons or Karen Marie Moning ¬_¬ ).I'll just explain what I mean by the Zsadist thingy.
So I read Dark Lover and really liked it, the novel had all the necessary components of good urban fantasy and paranormal romance: strong heroine, hot supernatural guy (even if he was called Wrath and liked to wear biker leathers) and just generally dark paranormal mystery goodness.
5 STARS, TRUE?
"What if I told you I had a fantasy" ...
Opening line of this book, and opening line of my review.
Yes you guessed it, my book fantasy stopped right here with the black dagger boys, and I am still on the biggest book roll ever with this series.
The five star fun run hasn't stopped yet, and my prediction is that it may not ever.So now that I'm an established BDB fan, what did this book have to offer you may well ask ...
Well it certainly pushed my 5 star rating buttons and I have o
His life story was heart breaking and I felt fully invested in seeing this brother reach for his happily ever after.This story is not only about Butch and Marissa, as always the authors intertwines the rest of the brotherhood into the mix, and we get to learn more about vishous, rehvenge and John Matthew.
I simply can't put into words how much I'm enjoying this series, thanks Anna for joining me on the BDB BESTIE BUDDY read, love you TRUE?❤I'm giving this book 5 stars, you feel me?
There are so many images of Butch that I want to put in but I will stick with this sexy guy Sometimes fate takes you in fucked-up directions I didn’t like when Butch turned all GQ on me. Is that even an expression, “GQ” - you know what I mean, designer suits, cufflinks (although maybe the cufflinks would work). I wanted him in faded, jeans, tight t-shirts and scruffy boots. Naked would be good too! "Why are you doing this? You're just human-""I am so sick of hearing that. Leave!" Butch, an ex-co
There are so many images of Butch that I want to put in but I will stick with this sexy guy
Cannot wait to read his story, there were a couple of scenes with him and Butch that we so moving, I felt like crying.
He loved to drink his Scotch – actually he should have been drinking Irish Whiskey, now that I come to think of it but as Himself is partial to an odd dram of Scotch, we shall let the author off, this timeOh, I could go on and on and on and on about this book and about Butch and how much I loved him but I am afraid that if I post too many quotes and reference I will spoil it[image error]You should go and discover how good this book is for yourselves.
Butch and Marissa  "Marissa. I am called Marissa.""Butch." He touched his broad chest. "Er... Brian. O'Neal. People call me Butch, though."He stuck his hand out. Then retracted it, rubbed it vigorously on his pant leg, and offered it again.She lost her nerve. Touching him was too much, and she took a step back.He dropped his hand slowly, not looking at all surprised that she'd rejected him.And still, he stared.(From Dark Lover)  Butch and Marissa met in the first book of the series. Butch fell i
I am called Marissa.""Butch." He touched his broad chest.
Butch and Marissa met in the first book of the series.
Marissa was mostly curious about Butch, but she was not allowed to touch because she belonged to the King.
He hated that he depended on her for feeding and had already started falling in love with Beth.A few books later Wrath is happily mated to Beth and Butch has quit trying being a better person for Marissa.
It is about time for aristocratic, sheltered Marissa to pursue her happiness and fight for it.
(view spoiler)[Butch will be a full vampire, a Brother and he will get his girl!
“Don't think I was the only reason he healed. You're his light, Marissa. Don't ever forget that.”  Honestly, I hadn't set my hope that high before I read like the first two books. But Lover Revealed had proved me wrong. Marissa isn't a character I am very fond of; she's quite annoying, weak and not important to be the MC of this book. But J.R. Ward proved herself again that her works always have development. She molded her characters in each book thoroughly until they're ready to get their own
Honestly, I hadn't set my hope that high before I read like the first two books.
Marissa isn't a character I am very fond of; she's quite annoying, weak and not important to be the MC of this book.
“V, you know I love you like a brother, right?""Yeah.""You feed her and I'll tear out your fucking throat out.” 
She put Butch and Marissa together because she knew that there's a lot of chemistry there waiting to explode.
I loved many scenes from this book.
What Butch has done for his brothers cracked my heart and made me love him even more.
Rating: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsLead Male Character: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 starsLead Female Character: ★ ★ ★ and a half/ 5 starsPlotline: ★ ★ ★ ★ / 5 stars Genre: Vampire, thriller, adventure, action, romanceWill I recommend this book to others?: YESWill I reread this book?: MaybeOverall story summed up in one word: Butch-tastic!Unmarked spoilers!Ok, so I'm gunna talk about the ending of the book first, since I literally just read that part.
The way they care for each other is so heartwarming and super cute <3 What I didn't like much about this story, hence my 4 star rating rather than a 5, was Butch and Marissa's love.
“Now the new era in the war begins.”  Lover Revealed is the 4th book of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series, the story of Butch and Marissa.Butch and Marissa met in the first book of the series, and the attraction between them was instant and undeniable.It is the most action-packed story in the series so far, with many fights, twists and turns, surprises. Butch’s problem is solved brilliantly. Lover Revealed also provides insight into the world of the Lessening Society: the Fore-lesser’s motiv
Lover Revealed is the 4th book of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series, the story of Butch and Marissa.Butch and Marissa met in the first book of the series, and the attraction between them was instant and undeniable.It is the most action-packed story in the series so far, with many fights, twists and turns, surprises.
Though Marissa's development is spectacular, and she becomes a strong character by the end of the story, she'll never be my favorite heroines.Lover Revealed is not only a romance, but also the individual development of Butch and Marissa.Butch is a very complex character.
Butch definitely has what it takes to run with the vampires!I loved Marissa as well.
Her character grew more and more on me and I felt like she finally found herself as she went through the rollercoaster of emotions for Butch.
Actually, I found that my favourite characters are all mixed into this one - Butch, Marissa, Rehv, and even Xhex.
My favourite scene is probably when Butch is babbling to the Scribe Virgin and can’t seem to shut the hell up.
It's just so great to see that Butch has finally found his family and fits right in.
Lover Revealed is a great love story.
Book 4 of the BDB primarily features Butch ‘the cop’ and Marissa. We also get a good bit of Vishous and John Matthew. I liked Butch the first 3 books, but I was nervous I wouldn’t ‘love’ this book. I just didn’t feel that Butch/Marissa connection in the first few... Once again, I was wrong. I loved this one!  Butch didn't live in his own place. He didn't spend his own money. He had no job, no future. He was a well-kept pet, not a man. Butch has never really felt like he belonged. Not with his f
Book 4 of the BDB primarily features Butch ‘the cop’ and Marissa.
I just didn’t feel that Butch/Marissa connection in the first few...
He lives in the pit with his best friend V, and pines over vampire royalty, Marissa, who wants nothing to do with him.
Marissa has a lot of the same feelings as Butch.
She has feelings for Butch, but she hasn’t spoken to him in a long time, so he must not want her either.
Don’t get me wrong, I love Butch and Marissa together, and I think they are good for each other- but I just love V and want him happy...
Excellent re-read! Full review to come... Never did a casting or review the first time around.My Butch: (Yep, I couldn't choose just one!)My Marissa:
And the great thing is that Marissa needed to be loved and adored.
I also loved how Marissa came into her own and became the strong woman she was meant to be so she believe in herself, and she could stand at Butch's side, not behind him or in front of him.
There are so many scenes that I love, but one of my favorites is when Butch goes to be inducted into the Brotherhood and all the shellans are lined up in their dresses that represent their Hellrens, and there is Marissa waiting for him.
I must admit, at the thought of reading Butch's and Marissa's story i was all like... For those who don't know i was NOT a big fan of them both in the previous books. Butch i kinda hated, and Marissa seemed really pathetic to me. Not a great mix of emotions, true?Especially if you are the kind of reader (which i think the majority of us are) that if you do not care for the characters you do not care for the book. I am that type of reader, and that statement is accurate as that was exactly what h
That might be because Butch and Marissa really did start to grow on me.J.R Ward has proven that she is the kind of author who will most likely never disappoint.
This is not going to be a big review as everything that is to be said about this book, series, and author is already said in other people's awesome reviews.
So go check them out if you want to know more!All i have got to say is that BDB is THE BEST, and i can not wait to read the rest books in the series.
5 Belonging Stars.... You feel me?  ‘Sometimes fate takes you in fcuked up directions’ ~ ButchButch.....sigh.....the cop....the man.... THE MAN I absolutely fell in love with Butch in this story, what a fierce loving sweetheart he is!!!I have to be honest, I didn't care too much for Butch at the start of this series, he was just an 'extra' character, a filler, but he has grown on me in a lovely way.He is a man of honour, a lost man.....Where does he belong? Who does he belong with?‘…he was right
I absolutely fell in love with Butch in this story, what a fierce loving sweetheart he is!!!I have to be honest, I didn't care too much for Butch at the start of this series, he was just an 'extra' character, a filler, but he has grown on me in a lovely way.He is a man of honour, a lost man.....Where does he belong?
Butch, in my opinion, well and truly earns his place in this story and the world of the.....Only look at the spoiler if you want to know.....(view spoiler)['The destroyer has arrived and you are he.' ~ Scribe Virgin Yes, all of Butches wishes come true (hide spoiler)]BR with the fabulous Pinks <3
Lover Revealed was a decent book. It doesn't have the intensity Lover Awakened had, but afterall: Butch isn't Zsadist.Don't get me wrong: I love Butch. And I liked Marissa. And I luuuved Butch and V. Actually I was wishing for a Marissa/Butch/Vishous menage but alas :( Still: enjoyed it. A lot. 4 stars.
The Black Dagger Brotherhood continues to deliver amazing stories, but was compromised by the inclusion of a questionable love interest... Sorry Butch...   "I liked you cop. From the moment I met you. No… not the first moment. I wanted to kill you when I first met you. But then I liked you. A lot."   This is a 3.5 Star read, but I'm rounding up to 4 because I still love BDB...My opinion of Marissa detracted from my enjoyment of this book. I found the relationship between Vishous and Butch far mo
I didn't dislike him; I was simply far more interested in the Brotherhood to really care about Butch's self-loathing… I enjoy a broken alpha-male as much as the next woman; but you can't "use the power of love" to cure self-loathing… Note the "SELF" prefix.One of the things which I enjoy about J.R. Ward - her female characters are not usually weak and whiny little ingrates… I was thoroughly disappointed about Marissa… EVERYTHING about Marissa.
Our favorite characters are still growing, and we continue to see their evolution.I will be taking a bit of a break before reading Vishous's Story in Lover Unbound.
Reviewed for www.thcreviews.comAfter meeting Butch and Marissa in Dark Lover, the first book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series, I was intrigued by the characters and looking forward to reading their story.
When compared to the previous books in the series, I thought that Lover Revealed was simply lacking in the lovely, heart-stopping romantic scenes that I really love to see.
Lover Revealed is the fourth book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
Opening Line:"What if I told you I had a fantasy?"This is the story of Butch O'Neil The 4th member of the Black Dagger Brotherhood to find love.
Vishous rescues Butch in scenes very reminiscent of Zsadist going after Bella in Lover Awakened.
At V's request Marissa comes to the clinic to help Butch recover and our love story begins.
Marissa and Butch's continual conflict and angst annoyed me to a degree but this is such a great book that I was able to overlook it.
4 BUTCH smart-ass, tough-talking, Scotch-sucking STARSButch O'Neal   Marissa   This book concentrates on Butch and Marissa’s relationship. However to be honest I found the development of his relationship with Vishous to be more exciting than the romance between him and Marissa. I thought that Lover Revealed was simply lacking in the lovely, heart-stopping scenes that I really love to see, so I found it difficult to really feel their love in the powerful way that I did with the main characters in
This book concentrates on Butch and Marissa’s relationship.
However to be honest I found the development of his relationship with Vishous to be more exciting than the romance between him and Marissa.
I thought that Lover Revealed was simply lacking in the lovely, heart-stopping scenes that I really love to see, so I found it difficult to really feel their love in the powerful way that I did with the main characters in the others books!
This doesn’t stop me from strongly recommending it.Lover Revealed is a fantastic read, a exciting page turner that you won’t want to put down.
Once you start one of these books you just have to keep going straight through to the end!This one tells the story of Butch and Marissa and it held quite a few surprises.
I enjoyed the way the author dealt with the problem that Butch was a human living in the vampire world, and she even managed to make unlikeable Marissa tolerable by the end.
There were also several lesser story lines which made the whole book much more interesting and which are obviously going to be developed in future books.Book three is still my favourite in the series so far but this one was also very entertaining indeed.
I wasn't too fussed on reading Butch's book, after all he was just a cop and Marissa had come across as rather bland although I did feel for what she went through.
His snark, dry humour, loyalty and commitment to his new brothers reeled me in.More surprising, because of where Ward took his story I was actually anxious to get to the lessers parts!
After bitching about them for three books I was actually Jonesing for their parts.
Go me!😂Although I liked Marissa, I had this strong feeling that Butch and Vishous should have been together.
Let's hope I like Jane for him.
5 Outstanding DaggersMy love affair with the BDB continues.....it absolutely keeps getting better and better. After 4 books, I am fully vested with the Brotherhood and can't wait for every book. Lover Revealed is about Butch. He is the human that the BDB has taken in from the beginning. There is something special about Butch but no one knows why that is......The 2 quotes below sum up Butch perfectly. Sometimes fate takes you in fucked up directions. Still on the outside looking in. Even though t
Even though the BDB have taken him in their fold, Butch is lost.
He's not a cop anymore, he has no family, he can't fight with the Warriors and his one true love, an aristocratic vampire, Marissa, doesn't want anything to do with him.
I LOVE THEM!!!I must say that after getting to know V in this story....V
Now, Marissa and Butch have a rocky relationship.
This story comes full circle as to why Butch was taken in by the BDB.
I love that besides Butch and Marissa, all the other characters are involved in the story as well as getting to meet new ones.
We've met the brotherhood and now it is time to get to know their females. Cheat sheet for the females :  Beth: is (view spoiler)[Darius' (hide spoiler)] daughter. She's Wrath's shellan (wife) and is half-breed. She has a pet- kitty named, Boo. Mary: when she meet Rhage she works at a legal office and volunteers for suicide hotline. She's Rhage's shellan. She has (view spoiler)[leukemia (hide spoiler)].Wellsie: is Tohrment's shellan. She has a special place in her heart for John. Bella: is Mary'
She has a pet- kitty named, Boo. Mary: when she meet Rhage she works at a legal office and volunteers for suicide hotline.
She's Rhage's shellan.
She has (view spoiler)[leukemia (hide spoiler)].Wellsie: is Tohrment's shellan.
She has a friendship with Mary and John.
Sort of the King's shellan (there was nothing intimate between them).
BDB has more females but their stories haven't been revealed yet.
Lover Revealed is an enjoyable story except for Marissa's constant self doubt and feelings of being unwanted by the male population.
I'm looking forward to getting to know the other brother's better and meeting their mates in the next 8 books.
Also, the character development from the previous books in the Black Dagger Brotherhood series was amazing!So this book is all about Butch!
I was kinda getting tired of his character until the very end of the book when he and Butch finally interacted with one another.
The entire book was so built up on Mr. X searching the face of the Earth for Butch so he could cover his ass from the Omega and I was glad when they finally interacted with one another.Okay now onto John...For the love of all that is holy in this world PLEASE have something happen with his character!
5 STARS ~ if you wanna kiss the SKY better learn how to kneel boy - stars !!!
MoreMoreI need to feedOn moreTrue ?!This book has served it's purpose !
STAT!!!!!Solidified in concrete and everlasting love/lust and all GIRLY PARTS COMBUST ❤❤for Vishous His book is going to blow me away True Fucking TRUEST of TRUE !!
I've got my book heart on you ❤Buddy read with the Bestie Lisa Jayne :)What doing ?
GIRL POWERYeah we can cut these boys and eat them up for lunch with our powers.
TRUETRUE❤❤❤who would've ever thought that TRUE would replace the Laters, Baby ❤❤❤❤In my book swoon heart !!!
Me swoon.
I so hoped that my Butch would have a stronger female and that his story would have been better, but unfortunately, in my eyes, it didn't play out so well.
Marissa was not what I wanted or hoped for Butch, I thought at some point she would see the light, there would be a love connection, but no light, only when my power come back on...hehe...and she never stepped up to the plate for my man, like she needed too.
I still luv ya Butch...I just wish J.R. Ward would have done right by you.
