https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1333811.The_Mouse_in_the_Mountain
Review To Follow:This book is a slim little 150 page novel (if you can call it that; used to call things like this "novelettes") written by the master of a kind of breezy hardboiled detective tale, Norbert Davis- the creator of the unforgettable "Max Latin".The novels sleuths are a pair of unlikely partners.
He looked like a very nice, pleasant sort of person, and on rare occasions he was."Carstairs –Doan’s partner- is described as “…a fawn-colored Great Dane whom Doan had won in a crap game, and who is Doan’s superior in every way imaginable.
I am actually reading a book that contains four of the five Doan & Carstairs mysteries.
These are a great combination of hard-boiled and humorous, which may be typified by the fact that Doan is the toughest private detective around but is short, round, and mild-looking while Carstairs is his Great Dane who is a character in his own right (but without talking or any other goofy attributes ...
and he's hard-boiled in his own way).
Highly enjoyable.This book takes Doan & Carstairs to a new level with a multi-layered plot that is told from the heroine's point of view.
This series is crazy. It reminds me of old 40s movies, and I enjoy visualizing the action. Carstairs is great. When a little boy is being totally obnoxious, Carstairs puts him in his place with a few fake chomps. The characters in this story were better developed than in the last story I read from this writer. I must recommend this book. It's light, it's fun, and it's well written.
Extremely entertaining. More here:http://inkquilletc.blogspot.in/2017/0...
I read this following the advice of Ludwig Wittgenstein, considered the most influential philosopher of the 20th century, who wrote to a friend in 1948: For, though, as you know, I’ve read hundreds of stories that amused me and that I liked reading, I think I’ve only read two perhaps that I’d call good stuff, and Davis’s [The Mouse in the Mountain*] is one of them. (...) It may sound crazy, but when I recently re-read the story I liked it again so much that I thought I’d really like to write to
Davis manages to bring these people (and the dog) to life vividly, in spite of the brevity of this fast-paced and eventful novel; the reader is never confused as to who is who.
But Davis is best at dialogue (which makes up about half of the novel), for instance: “Friend,” said Henshaw, “...
“But I claim I’m a private detective.”This is not one of these books that will change your life.
It is easy to see why Wittgenstein liked it - Davis is an expert in creative semantic/pragmatic misdirections, usually leading to a joke.
Another Doan and Carstaris mystery narrated by Julie D at Forgotten Classics. A solid mystery that keeps you guessing along with memorable characters. The interplay with the private detective and his dog Carstairs is often rather funny but they is a lot going on in this detective mind than is on the surface. I enjoyed the story and did not guess the conclusion. The only thing that put me off slightly was there was just a little too much use of coincidence to set up part of the story.
Mix a little Janet Evanovich with Micky Spillane, toss in a generous helping of Marmaduke (or Scooby Doo if you prefer) and you've got a good idea of a Doan and Carstairs mystery. Funny sometimes to the point of ridiculous, but blunt and fast moving with an unexpected ending generally describe this series by Norbert Davis. This is the second of the four of five available mysteries.
Listening on the Forgotten Classics podcast.
Norbert Davis is known for mixing humor with hard-boiled mysteries.
In THE MOUSE IN THE MOUNTAIN Davis introduces us to the bibulous detective Doan and his gigantic canine pal Carstairs, who disapproves of drinking.
Some of the humor is similar in spirit to Thorne Smith, which has not aged well, and to Rex Stout, who has aged tremendously.
But this really is a noir, and one with laughs.
Doan appears to be an amoral , violent type, a little like The Continental Op; he does not miss many tricks.
With Doan and the imperious Carstairs digging up facts and shenanigans.
Carstairs is at his best, doing as little as possible but to the greatest effect.
Whilst our hero gets into one scrape after another but his almost MacGyver like skills let him live to see another day.A sightseeing trip to a little town in Mexico has our intrepid hero taking on crooks, the Mexican force, some American tourists (including a small boy that's destined to become a name on the FBI's most wanted list), an earthquake and a forger.
Watch as he and Carstairs do as little as possible whilst ending up with all the "baddies" caught or dead and with a substantial payoff to boot.
Recommended by a friend, I read this because the main charater's name is Doan. My maiden name was Doane. Close enough. And because Carstairs is one of the most hilarious sidekicks ever. An enormous Great Dane with an incredible wit and sense of timing. Together, he and Doan casually solve the crime, while everyone else bumbles around. And I do mean bumbles. The crime though plays second fiddle to the peripheral characters ranging from outrageously bad children to pompous police men. A lot of fun to read.
Janet especially proved to be a much more interesting character than I had anticipated, having significantly more agency than one might expect from a woman in a detective story; without having any talents which seemed incongruous to her backstory, she solved large portions of the mystery well before Doan.In terms of craftsmanship, the tale is structurally sound: all of the many plot threads are deftly woven together, each scene fits neatly into the overall story, and nothing is left egregiously unresolved.
The Mouse in the MountainNorbert DavisThe Rue Morgue Press, 2001ISBN 0915230410Trade Paperback Originally published in 1943, this first entry in the Doan and Carstairs series is unexpected in the world of the hardboiled PI novel.
Janet is in search of romance and adventure and is fascinated with the story of Cortez’s associate, Lt. Emile Perona.After a nail-biting journey, they arrive in Los Altos and land right in the middle of a gunfight between police and bad guy Garcia.
It was morning, and the sun was gleaning and grinning generously, regardless of earthquakes, murders, or even Hitler.Very fun little book about a laconic, fat, unassuming detective named Doan, paired up with an enormous, but mostly aloof dog with the wonderfully absurd name Carstairs, and their little adventure in Mexico.
At times it's more like Douglas Adams' "Dirk Gently's Holistic Detective Agency" (as when Doan describes how he makes his money), at other times it dabbles in hard-boiled (unassuming strangers are found to hide some deadly weaponry).
I've never seen anyone just sit down and- and get drunk.""Stick around, kid," Doan told her.
This book was not very good, and I won't be reading any more from the author.3 stars...
This book was ok, but I won't go out of my way to read more, But if I find another book by the author for under a dollar I'd pick it up.4 stars...
I really enjoyed this book and will definitely be on the look out to pick up more from the series/author.5 stars...
It had earned a permanent home in my collection and I'll be picking up the rest of the series and other books from the author ASAP.
PROTAGONIST: Doan, PI, and Carstairs, Great DaneSETTING: Los Altos, MexicoSERIES: #1 of 3RATING: 4.0WHY: Written in 1943, Mouse is a comic hardboiled mystery featuring overweight PI Doan and his partner, Carstairs, a huge Great Dane dog.
Along with a tourist group, they go to the village of Los Altos, Mexico, which is subsequently cut off from the world by an earthquake.
There's lots of foul play going on.
Doan isn't exactly ethical.
There's quite a bit of comic relief, first in the form of the tour bus driver and later the head policeman, Capt.
Emile Perone.
Amusing dialogue and surprisingly contemporary.
This is the second book in the Doan and Carstairs series. The first "book" is actually a short story and this a very short novel. Doan is a private detective and Carstairs is his Great Dane. I didn't care for the first one very much but wanted to give the series a chance. Nope, it's just not doing it for me. Once again Carstairs, although a title character, just doesn't do much. Definitely underused. The plot is pretty lame and the humor just not humorous enough. I won't be reading any more in the series.
Brisk, airy writing style. Set in Mexico around WWII. Private detective Doan owns a Great Dane named Carstairs. The dog, while always present, doesn't do a whole lot other than to provide comic relief.I figured out the killer (unusual for me) before the end of the book so perhaps this isn't the best whodunit.At some point I'll likely read the sequels.
Detective Doan and Carstairs are the perfect duo. They both have exceptional talents useful in the situations in which they find themselves. I like feisty Janet, Inspector Perone and the other characters in the little mountain town of Los Altos. Without Janet's interest in reading the bad guys would not have been so readily found. Love the humor.
Fun read! (Well, listen, via Julie Davis' "Forgotten Classics" podcast.) I found the heroine's love interest to be annoyingly chauvinistic, and I felt sorry that she ended up with such a rude boyfriend. Doan and Carstairs, however, were fabulous fun!
Enjoyable, fast moving, mostly lighthearted detective story. I read it in about a day and enjoyed it very much. I found out that there are two more novels and a few short stories with the same characters that I will also try to read. It's a shame that the author died young.
I read all three of these back to back to back. It combines the hard boiled detective and humor. Carstairst the dog is the main character and the detective Doan a close second.
It was good but not as good as the first one. Got off to a slow start but had a bit of a surprise ending. It was worth the 99cents I paid for it. :)
Often startling/very of the period (1940's). I've been reading the Doan & Carstairs books on my Kindle and iPhone. Very entertaining. I got started reading these after a recommendation on DorothyL.
1940s pulp fiction about a detective and his Great Dane. Lots of good characters and situations. Enjoyed it. $0.99 Kindle download.
An interesting read considering its a PI mystery with humor. And I love the idea that the partner is a Great Dane! Not the most interesting in reading but fun anyway.
This is the first and best of an absolutely delightful series of humor-tinged mysteries featuring the quixotic Doan and his Great Dane partner. The only trouble is that there aren't enough of them.
Kindle book. Doan, undercover government spy, Carstairs his great dane. Dated. WW !!, about.
A fun and screwy story.
Doan & Carstairs go to Mexico and get mixed up with the Mexican army, puffed up officers, earthquakes and murder.Entertaining little story.
