https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16331.Murder_at_the_Vicarage
I enjoy reading her cases featuring detective Hercule Poirot because he knows the outcome well before the reader.
As in Christie's cases featuring Poirot, the police assigned to this case appear to be inept at best.
A forerunner to today's cozy mysteries, Miss Marple appears to provide an easy reading contrast to Poirot's cases which have me thinking throughout.
Dame Christie is still the standard bearer for all modern mystery writers, and while I prefer Hercule Poirot, I have a feeling I will be revisiting Miss Marple as well.
حتي الراوي نفسه، بل القرية جمعاء التي لم تكن تطيق الكولونيلومن يدري....كلها حبكات مختلفة عجيبة لاجاثا والتي ستبهرك دوماقد تكون الأنسة ماربل دورها ليس الأكبر هنا في حكاية لكن بالتأكيد ملاحظاتها هي الاهمهي اول رواية لها من اصل 12 رواية رغم نشر قصة قصيرة لها سابقا اضيفت لاحقا كفصل من فصول رواية لاحقةاستوحتها الجميلة أجاثا كريستي من عمتها و ايضا جدتها..وهي نموذج ستجد مثيلته الكثير وليس في القري الإنجليزية الصغيرة فحسب بل في اي مكان بالعالمواتذكر انها دوما كانت تتحدث عن الحاسة السادسة للنساء بالاخص برواية مقتل السيد روجر اركويد فقد قدمت ذلك النوع من الشخصيات في دور شخصية اخت الراوي
Agatha Christie's Murder at the Vicarage was my first Miss Marple.
Still, I'm not sure I'd want to be caught by my more macho, football playing friends reading a tea cozy mystery.
The characters are dapper dandies and old teetotaler biddies.
The high manners and speech abound, aside from that of the occasional parlor maid, flatfoot, or old age pensioner.
Murder at the Vicarage has some clever misdirection.
I found the writing style reminiscent of PG Wodehouse.
I tally this as a positive as I am a big Wodehouse fan.
The same can be said of the few Christies I've read.
A solid 4.5 stars for Murder at the Vicarage, the first novel in the Miss Marple cozy mystery series, written by Agatha Christie in 1930.
From the characters to the setting and the plot to the tone, it's an intriguing and immersive read.
so she won't say it all at once until she's got every nasty little detail ferreted out.The poor vicar suffers in this one as the murder happens in his house -- everyone is up in his business.
Add in the side-stories and you've got one easy read.
This first Miss Marple mystery is deceptively gentle, with much of the story narrated by the mild mannered vicar.
When he returns to the vicarage to find the body of Colonel Protheroe shot in his study, the vicar becomes involved in the murder investigation, aided by his neighbour Miss Marple.
There is a wonderful list of suspects, motives and false trails along the way, until Jane Marple untangles the threads and makes everything clear.Not only is this a masterfully plotted story, but it introduces us to St Mary Mead and a cast of characters who will become familiar friends in later books.
"Murder at the Vicarage" is called the first book in the Miss Marple series, yet she only appears in a handful of scenes, irregularly interspersed in the course of this novel.In the first place, Agatha Christie writes about a colonel's death and the small town's vicar who tries to discover the murderer's identity.
However, this also caused another one of this book's weak spots: Although it is only 270 pages long, it dragged on for the second half, as nearly no new information were added and the investigators were more or less left groping in the dark.Agatha Christie writes about very different characters trying to live in a small town where nothing ever happens - until this highly disliked man is murdered at the vicarage.
I pondered (and pondered!) my rating but have decided to go enjoyment and how good this was for the first in a series - The Divine Christie had me completely fooled!There are faults - too many characters (some very similar) and the characterisation of Miss M is very uneven - she is a right old bat at the start, but by the halfway point she is the amateur sleuth I love. The trademark fluffiness hides great powers of observation and deduction.Like   there is a lot more humour in this novel than mo
I pondered (and pondered!) my rating but have decided to go enjoyment and how good this was for the first in a series - The Divine Christie had me completely fooled!There are faults - too many characters (some very similar) and the characterisation of Miss M is very uneven - she is a right old bat at the start, but by the halfway point she is the amateur sleuth I love.
Ms Christie puts these words in one of her character's mouths;
“We think with horror now of the days when we burnt witches.
I believe the day will come when we will shudder to think that we ever hanged criminals.” 
"Ubistvo u parohijskom dvoru" je prva knjiga još jednog veoma popularnog serijala Agate Kristi o detektivu amateru - gospođici Marpl.
Lično, više mi prijaju dogodovštine gospođice Marpl od avantura mesje Poaroa.
Daleko od toga da mi se ne sviđa šarmantni Poaro, ali gospođica Marpl me je kupila nekako "na prvu loptu".Gospođica Marpl je jedna sredovečna, radoznala dama koja me u mnogo čemu podseća na jednu moju komšinicu, a pre svega po tome što uvek zna šta se dešava "u tuđem dvorištu".
Međutim, ta moja komšinica za razliku od glavne Agatine junakinje, nije ni približno toliko pametna, a nedostaje joj i poprilično njenog šarma :)Sve u svemu, lako štivo koje se brzo čita, sa povremenim neočekivanim obrtima i zanimljivom atmosferom.
What a marvellous book, I had forgotten how enjoyable it is to read Agatha Christie's books.
I read this many years ago but only remembered the Joan Hickson TV adaptation, and even then I didn't guess who did it prior to the denouement.
Every time Miss Marple is mentioned I just see Joan Hickson (not Geraldine McEwan, nor Angela Lansbury, nor Margaret Rutherford, nor Julia McKenzie), always Joan Hickson, I can see her hesitating and saying "oh well" in a self deprecating manner as she does in the book.Anyway enough on actresses, the book, was excellent and has spurred me on to read more Marples.
I love British detectives!! Alhoewel gedateerd...ik heb genoten van de typische Engelse sfeer in deze detective van Agatha Christie met natuurlijk Miss Marple...lekker kneuterig, ongecompliceerd!!
The first Miss Marple mystery. The usual red herrings and mechanical Christie plot. This early Miss Marple is more acerbic and less endearing.
It is in fact the latter's murder, that rouses the town from its peaceful slumber, setting loose a sudden and unexpected chain of events.Even though I was a big fan of Dame Agatha Christie's Hercule Poirot series in high school, I have somehow never got around to reading any of her books featuring Miss Marple.
I mean, who doesn't like a dash of crime with their afternoon tea?Unlike the Hercule Poirot series, where the famous detective is generally sought out to help investigating the murder, Miss Marple is hardly ever requested for a consult.
Turned out that this was a re-read.
Like with many of Agatha's books, as I read tons of them a few years back and can't remember which ones I did read.
Also, for such a short book it took me ages to read it.
Mostly, because I was very busy.
But also because I was so bored.
It seems that last time I read it, I've enjoyed it more.
But this time around there was just too much "going around the bush" and "useless plot twists" for my liking.
I still enjoyed it, but not as much as I enjoy some of her other works.
كنت مقتنعاً منذ البداية وبشكل شبه مؤكد بهوية القاتل..
الأمر لم يكن سهلاً طبعاً ولكن ينبغي أحياناً أن تكون مس " ماربل " نفسها :)رواية شيقة محيرة مربكة للغاية فيها شخصيات عديدة ومشتهبون سبعة وعدة ألغاز ..
حقيقة لا أذكر أني إستمتعت برواية كهذه الرواية منذ زمن .." إن القاتل في القصص هو آخر شخص تتجه إليه الشبهات، ولكن هذه النظرية قلما تصح في الحياة الواقعية "
Yet again Christie manages to craft a mystery so intricate it’s all you can do to keep up, never mind get ahead of her. 4 stars instead of 5 as it took me ages to get invested in these characters for whatever reason, and because I got tired of Clement remarking upon how clever Miss Marple is (we get it). But the resolution was fantastic and I thought the humor in this one in particular was great.
There is no detective in England equal to a spinster lady of uncertain age with plenty of time on her hands.”It's no mystery that I am no aficionado of Miss Marple's, but with Murder at the Vicarage, her very first adventure, I found myself gradually warming toward her in a way I didn't expect.
This happened, I believe, because in this novel Miss Marple is no different from the multitude of gossip old ladies inhabiting the peaceful country village of St Mar Mead, except that she is, uncannily, way more brilliant than sharp than any of them.
I wanted to do more justice to Agatha Christie and her brilliant mind, but my conscious nags at me; it tells me that in honesty I was not drawn in to the story as I normally do when I read her novels.
This is the first time that we are introduced to Christie's celebrated lady detective - the old Miss Jane Marple.
Having read books of Poirot series, it was surprising for me to be introduced to a strikingly different detective (if I may use that word for Miss Marple).
Whereas Poirot was introduced as an uncommonly brilliant detective, Miss Maple is more ordinary and reachable.
This book had me chuckling from beginning to end.Our protagonist, the Vicar, is married to a woman half his age and is always a little suspicious that she may be looking at other men.
It seems that no one is free from suspicion.Affairs, thievery, clandestine meetings, jilted lovers...good thing snoopy Miss Marple is there to keep an eye on everyone and steer the misguided police and Vicar to the correct verdict.Christie has a good way of bringing characters to life, filling them with quirks and speech patterns that make them spring off the page.
This was Christie's 10th novel overall but the first to introduce the character of Miss Marple. She was a secondary character to the Vicar, and rightly so because the murder occurred in his study, but she ultimately does solve the mystery of "who done it". An entertaining and fun read but not considered one of her better novels.
Fooled again! Thank you, Christie, for always delivering!
The 1st book in the Miss Marple series by Agatha Christie.A great quick read with lots of twists and turns keeping you guessing until the very end.
More interesting still is the proliferation of suspects and with all and sundry in the sleepy village of St Mary Mead having expressed their antipathy to the deceased churchwarden, Colonel Lucius Protheroe, often very vocally, suspicion looms large…Opening with the vicar recounting his frustrations at the “pompous old brute” - in the words of his sixteen-year-old nephew Dennis, and Protheroe’s insistence that there be an investigation into a suspected defalcation from church funds he makes a remark most unbecoming for a man of the cloth.
My admiration for Agatha Christie grows with each new book I read. I loved this interesting mystery and my introduction to the one and only, Miss Marple. I enjoyed the tongue-in-cheek humor and language from another time and place, with so many new words and phrases to look up. The investigation for the murderer progressed rather slowly, but I was constantly marking pages to keep new facts in mind. I liked the Vicar and his family and hope to meet them again someday.
There, it has been said.I received this audio free from the SYNC summer reading program last year.
I usually pick up series books mid-series and only manage to aggravate myself and anyone unfortunate enough to be reading my reviews.In the beginning, I very much enjoyed it despite the male narrator and his often grating/cringe-worthy performance of the women characters.
Loads of them.Unfortunately, once the sleuthing kicked in it started to lose me and I got a little bored.
Cozy mysteries just aren’t for me and I won’t be reading any more of these even if you tell me I’m missing some life altering experience.Life is too short to read books that aren’t your thing.
There is something fabulous about this book that makes is quite different from Christie's other books, and I still can't put my finger on what it is that makes this one so special (other than a slight twinge of nostalgia of discovering Christie for the first time).The book famously is the first of the Miss Marple mysteries but I really enjoyed all of the characters in this story, especially our narrator - the Vicar - and his wife:‘It is a pity that I am such a shocking housekeeper,’ said my wife, with a tinge of genuine regret in her voice.
Leonard ends up admiring Miss Marple by the end of this book, but initially he thought that she and many other in his flock were gossiping and mean spirited.
Things get even more confusing when two separate people confess to the murder.When Leonard starts his own investigations he keeps running into one of the residents, Miss Jane Marple.
What I loved about this book was that the only one who figured out what was going on was Miss Marple.
I also loved that we get introduced to characters we are going to see again in future Miss Marple books such as the vicar and his wife.
Bu kitap diğer kitaplarına göre bence biraz daha durağan başladı.
Fakat sonra kafama koydum ve bitirdim.
Sonu daha etkileyici geldi bana son 100 sayfada olaylar açılmış olsa da bence gayet güzel açıldı.
Tek sıkıntım Miss Marple’in çok çok az olması.
Evet o çözüyor ama kitap boyunca kendisini çok göremiyoruz.
Bir de içerisinde çok fazla cinsiyetçi itham vardı fakat yazıldığı yıl düşünülürse kabul edilebilir bir durum.
Rahip’in çalışma odasında bütün köyün nefret ettiği Albay kafasından vuruluyor ve olaylar böyle başlıyor.
Miss Marple’da kasabadaki dedikoducu kadınlardan biri.
Tek farkı aşırı zeki olması.
Umuyorum diğer kitaplarda kendisi daha göz önünde bulunur.
After reading a couple Miss Marple mysteries, and suffering all those hints as to her background, I decided the first introduction to the lady would be most appropriate.But this book doesn't offer much more than any of the other stories, to Miss Marple's backstory.
The genius of this novel is our narrator, the Vicar of St. Mary Mead.
And this one gruesome event set in a so heavenly and cloistered a village makes for great gossip, which makes for a circuitous route to the truth.This is the best Agatha Christie book I've read so far.
I only hope there is more set in St. Mary Mead.
“There is no detective in England equal to a spinster lady of uncertain age with plenty of time on her hands.”  The Murder at the Vicarage (1930, Collins Crime Club) is a Miss Marple classic by  Agatha Christie.
I enjoy reading the occasional cozy mystery, and nobody does it like Agatha Christie.
(Heyer's books are predominantly romance, while Christie's are predominantly mysteries.) I have still never read any of Christie's romance novels written under the pseudonym  Mary Westmacott because I am afraid to!
Miss Marple comes into the story very late in the game.Christian elements: Agatha Christie books aren't Christian fiction.
Suddenly ,with each turn of page, you suspect a new person to be the culprit .That's when the author plays with your mind and messes you for good , tests your reasoning to extreme .Now you try to find your own theory that explains each complexity of the problem the author has so cunningly built .
That's when you can't help but admire the genius named Christie for her sheer ability to hatch a plot,novels after novels,in a way so cunning ,unique and brilliant  .That's when you look back through the narrative and think how could you miss that .It was there all the time .The single master clue .How could you not see that .
