https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/294951.Fiddler_on_the_Roof
I was a very lucky goodreads first reads of this book."Fiddler on the Roof" this particular copy I received is in celebration of the 50 anniversary of the play.
It is a wonderful story.Tevye is the lead character.
Tevye is a poor man married with five daughters.
During this time era tradition is very important.
His daughters do not want to be matched to someone in the village.
the first three daughter through out the play have found men on their own they wish to marry.
Fiddler on the roof is a great read.one of the best story lines for a musical.
I am an avid fan of musical theater and I also love to troll the book section at literally any store that sells them.
Dollar stores can have diamonds if you are willing to squat on the floor and paw through them like a cherubic dwarf.
I found Fiddler on the Roof and a strange movie tie-in edition of Great Expectations at my local Dollar Tree.
The bright yellow book usually costs fifteen dollars and the cashier was cute: double win!
I think it would be wonderful to see the musical one day and I can practice Tevye's shimmies discreetly to myself.
I think it is interesting that one does not really find books like this any longer being produced - a hardcover version of a popular play that is currently on Broadway.
I am not sure if there is just not a market for it, if they were afraid that people would start illegally producing their own versions of it in their backyards, or if maybe they are doing this sort of thing and my local library, bookstore, and everywhere else that I get books just doesn't carry them, but this experience of picking up a Broadway musical in a hardcover book format was rather interesting.
It is not a volume of sheet music -- just the beautiful story of Tevye, the traditions he agrees to sacrifice for love of his daughters, and the one compromise he is unable to accept.This is a truly great work, saturated with dark humor and with love.
I hope, since I've made that point, it is also OK for me to mention how much I enjoyed reading, in black and white,TEVYE: If I were a rich manDaidle deedle daidleDigguh digguh deedle daidle dum,All day long I'd biddy biddy bum,If I were a wealthy man.Wouldn't have to work hard,Daidle deedle daidleDigguh digguh deedle daidle dum,If I were a biddy biddy richDigguh digguh deedle daidle man.
This play, movie and book were derived originally from the writings of Sholom Aleihem's stories.
There are few productions that combine humor, tragedy, love and sadness as well as this story of the persecution of Russian Jews at the turn of the century.
Reading this play is assisted greatly by the constant reminder of Topal or Zero Mostel and others in the stage or film version.
Surprisingly, this book is not identical to the movie or the stage productions that I have seen.I found it amusing that while I read the book I would be singing the musical sections while I sat alone in my rocker.
A friend loaned this to me, I read it, cried, and read it again.
As luck would have it two weeks later a small theater near me had a live performance and I enjoyed in more.
It is so good, not only are the characters believable but the circumstances, the expressions, and throughout one became aware of the Jewish traditions and customs.
I recently found out that Joseph Stein passed away, but reading his story I became aware of how many of his writings I had read.
A wonderful author with that gift of explaining people and places to our complete under standing.
I am a huge fan of this play/musical and this book did not disappoint. I sat down to read a few pages and ended up finishing it in an afternoon. I am always in awe of the wonderful whimsy, playfulness, and humor that this story holds. It will forever be one of my favorites and I am so glad that I now own a print edition.
A particular Jewish man, who has five daughters, is worried about funding good husbands for them.
From the eldest daughter we learn that she is already in love with a poor tailor but doesn't know how to tell her parents.
Meanwhile, the father is approached by a butcher who is undetected in marrying his eldest daughter.
The father agrees to a match using the logic that a butcher would be able to keep my daughter from going hungry.
The next to daughters to be married also insist on choosing husbands of their own, much to their father's chagrin.
After realizing how interested I was in the musical, I went to go see if they had the book of it at my local library, and they did!
It gave me feelings such as happiness, and sadness, as I got to also see a mix of humor and tragedy as the love story's went on in the book as the songs followed a long!
I was really happy to see that the songs were in the book, it made me so much more interested!
I gave this book four stars.
A very simple play with very catchy music.
This is also the only theater production I've ever been a part of so it'll always have a special place in my heart.
During the time I was in it, I was also growing out of my Judeo-Christian upbringing.
The tradition held by the characters clashing with the progression of the plot pressed into my brain because of the play's timing of coming into my world.
I wanted it to be more in depth commentary on things I wasn't aware of, but it's a good gateway into the Hebrew stories its based upon.
The wonderful musical play based on Russian Jewish life in the early 1900's. The play focuses on Tevye and his family in the Russian village of Anatevka. Tevye and his wife have five daughters and the play centers on three of them falling in love and getting married in the middle of the Jewish pogroms carried out in Tsarist Russia. This version of the play includes the lyrics of the beautiful songs from the musical. A Reader's Corner Highly Recommended Read and a classic drama.
Sometimes I like to sit in a coffee shop, put on the cast album of a musical, and read the libretto and book that goes along with it. Did this with Fiddler on Saturday because I love this play so much and needed a much awaited break from academia during finals.
I did not care for this at all.
As I read the play I was there. I forgot I was sitting in my living room in Alabama and I was part of Tevye's life, watching, feeling, and singing right along with him.
I've loved this since middle school so it holds a special place in my heart :)
This is the first time that I have read this play. It is as wonderful as the musical. I loved it. Long live Tevye.
Too pro Jewish but entertaining
I read thisfor class this year, but I was in my school's production of it! I love it!
It's interesting how bare bones the play script is compared to what we actually see... especially compared to the movie. Hard to really rate it like a book when it's missing the music and everything.
So naturally I thought maybe this book/ play is one of those Christian stories that I am more than likely never in my life going to read.
He must cope both with the strong-willed actions of his three older daughters—each one's choice of husband moves further away from the customs of his faith—and with the edict of the Tsar that evicts the Jews from their village.The original Broadway production of the show, which opened in 1964, had the first musical theatre run in history to surpass 3,000 performances.
Fiddler held the record for the longest-running Broadway musical for almost 10 years until Grease surpassed its run.

As his character develops and begins to accept a more modern approach to romance, his love for his wife and children deepens; and, although at the end of the play he must move from his village and begin a new way of life, he still values the traditions of his ancestry and holds on to his faith in God who has orchestrated all circumstances.FIDDLER ON THE ROOF has had a lengthy and quite successful run on the Broadway stage and is, no doubt, one of the most beloved musicals of the twentieth century.
I suppose it's like when you hear a characters voice in a specific actor's voice because you've seen a really good production with that actor.The story itself is a great fable about the coming of modernity and the consequent erosion of traditional authority and hierarchy.
The musical centers on Tevye, a poor Jewish man in Russian in 1905, and his wife and daughters.
All that Tevye wants is to be a good Jew, maintaining his people's traditions and doing right in the sight of God. But this desire is tested against the increasingly chaotic forces of the modern world.
To coincide with the event here is a copy of the full text as well as the lyrics to the songs as they appear in the play.
Reading the play was interesting.
Asides, that may slip by in a theater are all caught in print, yet you can't read the words without hearing them, or the lyrics without the music running through your head.
What I found most interesting, however, is how simple the play is.
All in all, this was a delight to read and brought back nothing but good memories.
Full disclosure: I was chosen a First Reads winner, and received a beautiful hardbound copy with dust jacket of Fiddler on the Roof.
It is a favorite of mine, and a quick read that brings back many memories of past productions.For those who have never seen the musical or a film version of it, this is the poignant story of Tevye's family, set in Tsarist Russia in 1905.
Well worth reading!Note: This book is shceduled to be released on September 16, 2014, in order to coincide with the 50th anniversary of the Broadway premiere.
This book is the complete script for the original musical, it's awesome.
I found myself humming along to the songs while I was reading.
Reading the script made me appreciate how brilliant this musical really is.
The human drama and raw emotion shown in the dialogue and songs are still prevalent today nearly fifty years after it debuted on Broadway.
Full of historical drama, Jewish identity, tradition, and love this tale will continue to last for many decades more.
For fans of the original musical, American theater, and Jewish history.I received this book for free from Blogging for Books in return for my honest, unbiased opinion.
I received "Fiddler on the Roof" as a Goodreads First Read.This was so delightful!
Right, Of course Right!In honor of the 50th anniversary of the Broadway premier - this book includes the full script (book and lyrics) for one of my favorite shows.
While reading I couldn't help but sing out loud.
Brought back so many memories from the movie as well as stage productions I've seen.
Mostly memories from the summer I worked on costumes for an amazing community theater when I was 14.
The only thing that could have made this better was if photos of the original Broadway production had been included.Highly recommended for all musical theater buffs!
I read this after seeing the production on Broadway. I wanted to relive the moment and the book has done just that. Tevye, the milkman works hard to support his wife, Golde, and his five daughters, Tzeitel, Hodel, Chava, Shprintze, and Bielke. There is Motel, the tailor, Yente, the matchmaker, Lazar Wolf, the butcher and Perchik, the student, amongst many neighbors in their little village of Anatevka. Things are changing in the world all around them and yet they remain stuck their ways. Why? Tradition!
"Fiddler on the Roof" was the first high school musical I ever saw. I felt like I had come full circle when I performed in the show myself at age 15. At age 25 I performed in it again (in the same role), and felt like once again I had come full circle. It's only appropriate for a show based in tradition, heritage and ritual, and Stein's script, when combined with Jerry Bock and Sheldon Harnick's incomparable score, is the perfect folk tragicomedy.
Good enough for horseshoes and hand grenades. This was a really good play. I read it over the course of just a couple of days, so the cast of characters (which is large, for a two-act play) escaped me a bit. But by and large, a good story. I would like to read the short stories to get a little more depth, maybe see the play.
