https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1189973.Lee_s_Lieutenants
A three volume work by Lee’s biographer, which is a study into the command of the Army of Northern Virginia during the American Civil War. Freeman lays out his arguments in his opening chapter of the first book, which concentrates on the development of the army command prior to Lee’s assumption of command.
The two chapters at the beginning of the first and third book together are some of the best writing on leadership to be found in any work of any period.
This book has also been released as a one-volume abridgement by Stephen W.
This is required reading if you are going to do any study of Robert E. Lee. It is slanted toward Lee's subordinates always making the mistakes, as opposed to Lee himself, but it is a very, very good read.One caveat. This is not the book for the military or civil war beginner. But it is still required reading to know about Lee, just after you have versed yourself in other CW books (like Shelby Foote's narratives about the Civil War).
Freeman was not a professional scholar, and this makes this work and his biography of Lee that much more impressive.
It was a fascinating read into the personalities of Lee's main subordinates, especially the young Sandie Pendelton.
Freeman clearly mastered his sources in an age where you had to physically travel to examine documentary sources.
It's clear that Freeman is a Lee partisan, but this in no way detracts from the scope or quality of the work.
It's meant to be a study of command: methods, techniques, personalities.
As a professional soldier, I took away quite a few lessons from this work.
As it was written in the forties when there were still men alive who fought in the War, it is very complicated.
The country still had first hand knowledge and no artistic license is taken.
Of course we will never know another war like this which is fine by me.
Lee had the men and Lincoln had the guns and trains.
In this first volume of what turned out to be three the beginning is painfully slow as it must have been for Lincoln.
However, it appears that this time was used by Lee and his men for good.
The section that I read covered the crucial transformation from a mob into a semi-professional army, and I still have little sense of how 'old Army' veterans interacted with political appointees, the energy of ambitious young men, or the masses of common soldiers.
The battles of the Civil War were a fascinating last gasp for when the physical courage and strength of a commander could make a decisive difference, for when information moved at the speed of horse messenger and battalions at a quick march, but I have little sense of how generals decided to deploy and attack.
This is just about the best Civil War book, actually three books, written. It looks at the key generals immediately under Lee's command: how they succeeded and how they failed. The book more or less follows the campaigns of the eastern theater chronologically.
Excellent overview of Robert E Lee's commanding generals and the battles they fought as well as the battle stragedies used in each of the battles that were fought.
You can't study Confederate military history without reference to Freeman's masterpiece -- all three volumes. It is the definitive work.
Parts of this book are captivating; some are mundane. Some reviewers believe no abridgement can do justice to original. Led me to read two books on Chancellorsville.
Summary: Stephen Sears abridged version of Douglas Southall Freeman's three volume study of the military leadership of the Confederate Army of Northern Virginia under Robert E.
We see the efforts of Lee to weld the leadership of Jackson, Longstreet, Ewell, and cavalryman Jeb Stuart into the powerful fighting force that moved from uncoordinated performances on the Peninsula to a brief shining moment of indisputable glory at Chancellorsville, with Jackson's brilliantly executed flank attack on the Union right.That brings us to the sad tale that runs through this book, of tragic losses of irreplaceable commanders, foremost of whom was Stonewall Jackson.
Lee's Lieutenants: A Study in Command, published 1942-44, is a military history of the Army of Northern Virginia, from said army's point of view.
(Ph.D. in history) Freeman gives as little information of Federal forces as was known by Lee or his generals.
With as many generals as there were in the army, even three volumes cannot cover them in as much detail as a reader may like.
After major battles, Freeman devotes pages to describe the considerations the high command had in selecting those promoted into vacated positions.
In all, a good detailed treatment of the Army of Northern Virginia, in 1245 pages!
By the time, I was finished with both audio books I was hooked.Since I completed both audio books by the time I drove from Utah to Tennessee, I picked up a copy of Grant Moves South (which is the story of the Union's western campaign) by Bruce Catton at Chattanooga,Tennessee when I went and saw the Chickamaga battlefield.
It is a history of the army of Northern Virginia from the first shot fired to the surrender at Appomattox - but what makes this book unique is that it is a biography of around 150 Confederate officers.
Actually a bit disappointing for me, per my expectations.
I was expecting a collection of mini-biographies of most of Lee's generals and brigadiers.
But instead this book turned out to be more of a retelling of the history of the Army of Northern Virginia, but from the sense of an organization chart.
I'm not sure, but suspect that Sears, in his editing to make this an abridged version of the 3 set series may have consciously removed much of the biographical material about Early, Hill, Longstreet, Mosby, etc.
Good reference manual, but not sure I'd read again completely or recommend.
After several book written from the Union perspective, it was interesting (and somewhat jarring) to read a Civil War history so unabashedly worshipful of the Confederacy and its leaders.
The writing was good and the approach interesting.
I can't imagine reading the whole five-volume set, though: it started to drag shortly after Gettysburg, and toward the end it was just one paragraph after another of how much Thomas Jackson was missed.Incidentally I live near a high school named for Freeman.
I guess the folks around here got so tired of naming everything after General Lee and his lieutenants that they thought his/their biographer should have his own namesake.
I have read the first two volumes of the three volume set. The details of character and setting is what sets the accounts apart from other Civil War histories. Freeman describes the physical, moral and intellectual qualities of the major commanders, which brings them to life as human beings. He describes the battlefield conditions, weather and human interest stories of these great events, so we know what it was like for real people caught up in each struggle
These are the books my father was reading on the train when his division was ordered from California to England to prepare for the invasion of France. Amazingly well written, and fascinating character studies. Detailed accounts of every civil war battle, but most importantly, terrific insights into the men who led the fight in the civil war for the confederacy.
A good review of the battles of the Civil War from the subordinates of General Lee. It explains in great detail the Southern movements before and during the battles. Shows the difficulty of coordination.
Freeman gives us more than history; he also provides descriptions and motives, hard to find without going back to the original correspondence and papers of key players. It's easy to see why his book is still an important source of information.
This book is the first in a two volume series on Robert E. Lee. Even though I thought I knew everything there was to know about Robert E. Lee, many in depth descriptions of events were added knowledge of the great General Robert E. Lee. Great book for Civil War buffs.
Magnificent!
Another must have for any civil war buff. A great survey into the Army of Northern Virginia and it's constant dynamic shifts in command
A thorough if a bit dry examination of Lee's underlings. This book does not concentrate on the battles themselves, but more upon the men who were directing them. A fresh and enlightening look.
Read this first in grade school and probably 3 times since then. On my top five list of books to have on a deserted island. Get the 3 volume set and avoid any abridgements.
