https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8521.Smokescreen
She owns a string of race horses in South Africa that she will be leaving to her nephew, but for some reason, the horses are suddenly falling well short of their potential and are rapidly declining in value.
Given that his friend is dying, he can't refuse the request and so gins up a reason to go to South Africa, allegedly to promote his new film.
While there, he will discreetly look into the problem of the underperforming horses.One he arrives in South Africa, though, Lincoln suddenly seems to become accident-prone and narrowly escapes two potentially fatal mishaps.
I had avoided him for many years because he is always described as "that guy who writes about horse-racing." That's misleading.
The friend, Edward Lincoln, is a successful actor and reasonably bright guy but knows nothing about solving mysteries, or about South Africa, where he is being sent.
However, he is a pleasant protagonist to spend time with.If you are the sort of reader who likes mysteries for the puzzle, don't start your Francis-reading with this one.
It's more of a thriller, with only Lincoln's lack of detective skills keeping him in suspense.
One of my favorite books by Dick Francis.I have always preferred his earlier work.An invitation to visit South Africa during the apartheid era provided Francis with the material for this book.He takes the reader inside a gold mine and describes its workings in fascinating detail.Francis also visited the Kruger National Park which becomes the scene for a memorable climax.
I don't really read Dick Francis for his cleverly build mysteries: the plot and the identity of the villain is usually given away very early in the narrative.
He is also rather safe, with a clear line between good and evil and a romantic, positive mindset, where you know the good guy will come through somehow and get the girl as a bonus.Dick Francis also has a vibrant curiosity about the world around us, his books are always informative and rich in trivia, showing off the indepth research on the chosen subject.
It's nothing fancy, but I know I'm going to love the experience.
The story takes us to South Africa where Edward has agreed to check out why a friend's horses are not performing as well as they should.
Edward grew up in the stables where his father was a head lad, I believe.
Once in South Africa, Edward has a couple of near misses and is wondering if someone is trying to kill him as a result of his poking around in the stables.
I loved his use of survival skills and his matter-of-fact acceptance of who the attempted murderer is and how Edward is going to catch him.
A nice comfortable (and not overly horsified) mystery novel.
First, our hero Link is a famous actor, although he has a background in horse racing since he father was a head lad for many years.
And secondly, Link is asked by a friend to investigate why the horses she inherited from her sister and now racing in South Africa are all doing poorly.
But what's the same as all the other books (and what makes me keep coming back to them) is that the main character is basically the strong and silent type.
He's just a basically a good guy, someone you'd want to get to know better.
(Luckily there are a lot more Francis books to choose from.)
A Dick Francis book set in South Africa, written in 1972. Like many of his books, sets off at a sprint and does not draw breath until the end. Great stuff.
This is a terrific entry in the Dick Francis series.
Unlike many of Francis' heroes, Edward Lincoln has few internal conflicts.
This is a Francis novel, so you know the hero has to suffer -- and he certainly does, with the help of that trademark spare and affecting Francis prose.I especially liked this book because I spent several weeks once in the locales that take up a large part of the book, and it was fun to revisit them through Francis' eye.
But whether you've been there or not, this volume should rank high on your list of must-read Dick Francis books.
This time, the setting is exotic South Africa, and the lead is a likable, down-to-earth action film star.
The usual Francis tropes make their appearances .
And of course, there is the male lead with an unusual ability to interpret data to reach reliable conclusions (though I suppose every good mystery needs someone with such an ability).
As usual, Francis mixes the familiar (the racing industry) with the unfamiliar (here, the gold mining industry).
(Incidentally, if you like Francis' take on the film industry, I recommend Wild Horses (the lead is a film director), and if you liked Wild Horses, Smokescreen might be right up your alley.)
I read Dick Francis for light, pleasant, put-me-to-sleep diversion. This had his usual intelligent, modest, tenacious, athletic well-mannered hero, this time a successful actor rather than a jockey. Like all of his mysteries, horse racing is involved, though here there is more action in a gold mine and the South African veldt than at the racetrack. There is a rather strange scene that involves a discussion justifying apartheid (the book was published in 1972), the only time I can remember anything even vaguely political in a Dick Francis mystery.
This novel is a change from Dick Francis' usual style because the main character is an actor! Interesting read.
A movie star is asked by his godmother to check on her string of horses in South Africa and soon finds himself the target of a murderer.
My favourite book written by Dick Francis. I have read it four times.
Love these old Dick Francis
As I think about all of his books (yes, this review covers all of his books, and yes I've read them all) I think about a moral ethical hero, steeped in intelligence and goodness embroiled in evil machinations within British horse racing society - either directly or indirectly.
The heroes aren't always horse jockies, they can be film producers, or involve heroes engaged in peripheral professions that somehow always touch the horse racing world.But more than that, Francis's heroes are rational human beings.
The hero's thoughts reveal a vulnerability that is touching, while his actions are always based on doing the right thing to achieve justice.
Edward Lincoln is the first example of a character type who will be repeated in several of Francis's works, and who provides a fascinating insight into Francis's own creative process.
In the end he decides to go back to producing light fare for undemanding audiences, but he can't undo what he's already done."Smokescreen," like much of Francis's work from the 70s, is short, almost slight, with an emphasis on glitzy fun jet-setting and escapism, but like its subject matter, it can't get away from the fact that it touches on more important things.
It's interesting that in this book, unlike most of the other books by Dick Francis I've read, he's happily married, with children.The part where he was trapped in a car, in the blazing hot sun, for days...
and some of the lines from that novel stayed with me for days....If you are the sort of reader who likes mysteries for the puzzle, don't start your Francis-reading with this one.
I would recommend this more to those interested in psychology and character interactions.*I read my local library's only copy of this novel, which was seriously printed in 1972.

Will Edward find out who is trying to kill him before it becomes to late?I started listening to this book as an audio book and finished it as a traditional paperback book.
I felt it was easier to keep track of characters in the book as i read it but felt that the audio book was a little more exciting.
I just didn't enjoy reading it so the book slipped from a 4 start mystery to a 3 star average book.I was surprised how much I cared about Edward by the end of the book.
Smokescreen is an international thriller that pits a dashing film star, Edward Lincoln, against some real life villains.
Upon the completion of his latest film, Lincoln is asked to visit Johannesburg to discover why a friend's horses are suddenly doing badly on the race track.
His attempt to help his friend puts Lincoln in harm's way from the moment he steps foot in Johannesburg.
What seems to begin as an attempt to discourage Lincoln's investigation escalates into obvious attempts on his life.
His luck finally seems to run completely out when a tour of the Kruger wildlife park begins to resemble a horrific scene in Lincoln's latest movie.
Not my favourite Dick Francis novel, but a good read all the same.
The book seemed to go on for a long time before the story really got started.
Despite an "accident" that to the reader is pretty obviously an attempt on his life, he seems to drift along, not really putting any effort into investigating the stables and unaware that someone is trying to kill him.It is slightly disconcerting to realise that stories set in the early 70s, a period I can remember clearly, are now starting to read like period novels!
Finalist 1972 Gold Dagger Award.
In his 11th horse racing related thriller, author Francis moves the venue to South Africa.Racing related thrillers - Edward Lincoln had scaled the Himalayas, survived deadly car chases, defeated scores of assassins.
After finishing his latest film, he's asked to visit South Africa to discover why a dying friend's horses are suddenly doing so badly on the race track.
Unfortunately, this attempt to help a friend soon puts Lincoln in harm's way.
From a nearly fatal interview to a dangerous mishap in a gold mine, it seems only luck is keeping him alive.
Edward Lincoln is a British actor who stars in action films.
While home between movies, he goes to visit Nerissa "a cross between aunt, godmother, and guardian, none of which I'd actually had." Nerissa is dying from Hodgekin's and persuades Link, as he's known, to travel to Johannesburg to try to investigate why her horses are showing so poorly at the races.
Link agrees and goes, under the guise of attending one of his movie premiers.
Re-read in 2012.
Action packed mystery.
All the threads are tied together in the end for a satisfying read.
I've read three Dick Francis books before this one and enjoyed all of them.
I listened to this one on audio and had to go through it twice because I didn't notice what was happening the first time.
The story is about a dull movie star who goes to South Africa to do some promotion.
I'm afraid that making the main character a movie star doesn't automatically make a book interesting.
I do enjoy Francis's general writing style.
This one is just not interesting for me.
Maybe if I read it instead of listening to it.
Imagine the Monty Python crew reading a book with no humor in it.
This was the first Dick Francis book I read and I was hooked. All the books have something to do with the world of horse racing since the author was formerly a jockey. They always involve great bodily harm to the "hero". Some are better than others and occasionally the subject matter is adult. I can't rate them individually since I read most of them many years ago but my overall rating of his writing is 4 stars. He is getting quite old and has started to co-author with his son. I find the quality undiminished.
Francis has a way of keeping all of his suspects in play until his hero character has solved the crime and then they go about and catch the criminal. this while set around horses as is mostly the case with him, involves a convoluted scheme regarding inheritance. Greed, murder, and a somewhat weird character or two.Quick read.
An entertaining adventure featuring a movie star who agrees to travel to South Africa to investigate a friend's string of horses which, for some reason, have not been running up to expectations. Listened to the audio which was narrated by Geoffrey Howard.
An early Dick Francis that needs to be read as a period piece. South Africa in the apartheid era for a start. Not as many horses as usual. Nevertheless an enjoyable and undemanding read.
I enjoyed this but not as much as other Francis books I have read. The main character has a talent for setting himself up to be killed too often.
