https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76718.A_Fine_and_Private_Place
I have only done this once and am thinking of doing it again.https://soundcloud.com/mistralia?utm_...I love going into graveyards and churches.
It’s rather interesting how they died and how this all adds to the charm and yet intrigue of the book.The best character for me though was Mrs Gertrude Klapper, a widow from the Bronx, who visits her husband Morris’ mausoleum, and befriends Mr Rebeck.
The Bronx wit on her part is a joy to read, the comings and goings with bodies and coffins, the philosophy of Mr Rebeck and the poignancy, brilliant storytelling and the question, what will happen in the end?I just loved it!
I was reading a library copy and it was almost more strength than I possessed not to dog-ear and underline the hell out of it, the writing is just so great.
Love this:The raven looked down at the lost feather.
"Never in my life have I made one decent landing.""Hummingbirds land well," Michael said.
"Like helicopters.""Hummingbirds are great," the raven agreed.
Read this book, but skip the library and go straight for your own copy so you can underline and dog-ear to your heart's content!
A lonely man lives in a New York cemetery is accompanied by two ghosts and a talking raven. Along the way he learns about life and love. The story is humorous and touching without being overly sentimental. Peter Beagle's simple and straightforward prose makes the story quick and easy to read, yet unforgettable.
Jonathan is filled with both excitement at interacting with a living person, and fear that his secret will be exposed.Perhaps I am a bit jaded as a reader, but within the first few chapters of A Fine and Private Place I could see where the story was leading, particularly in terms of the relationships of the two couples, living and dead, the predictable revelations about their lives, and why they ended up in their circumstances.
His companions are a talking raven and two new ghosts.
Will Rebeck's feelings for Klapper be enough for him to leave behind his cemetery home?I bought this for a quarter at a book sale and the story was worth a thousand times that.
The relationships between the four main characters is what drives the story and sets it apart from other fantasy tales.
I loved that there was no big bad menace other than the characters' own personalities.I recommend A Fine and Private Place to fans of fantasy stories that are about people rather than quests.
It's a sweet, touching ghost story about love, life, death and homelessness.
There's a man who's run away from live and spent 19 years living in a graveyard.
There's a young man ghost who has allegedly been poisoned by his wife.
Add a raven and a really bad night guard (bad as in he doesn't guard well) and you have the cast of characters for this charming piece.A Fine and Private Place has a lot of promise and charm, but it doesn't live up to the promise.
I liked it a lot, but I didn't love it.
This should be a melancholy book with all the talk of death, wasted lives, and lost loves.
Beagle can inject charm into a pickle and in doing so, lifts this tale into a amazing look at our attempts to find meaning and love.
Michael and Laura has recently died but are struggling with both their deaths and their past lives...and their feelings for each other.
There are some pretty heavy themes going on here but in Beagles' hand they slide effortlessly through the pages and never fails to give me a feeling of awe over the beauty of his prose and passion of his ideas.
This is the least subtle of his works; it is so densely packed with insights and philosophy that it's a bit like drowning.
I found there were chapters I couldn't get through in one sitting, I had to keep coming up for air, going away and writing some of my own thoughts, then coming back, suitably armed, for the next barrage.
I think not getting Mrs. Klapper says more about me than the book.So what is this about?
A few of us make it, thus encouraging other ghosts to believe it can be done.See, it is not subtle, and that is what I love about this book.
For those who are interested, there is a talking raven and chess with the dead.
PETER BEAGLE WROTE THIS AT NINEFUCKINGTEEN.
I am not going to get into what I was writing at the tender age of ninefuckingteen.
In any case: a book about death and love, unsentimental and full of stunning sweetness.
This (along with The Diary of Anne Frank, Breakfast of Champions, & Winesburg Ohio) is a book that makes me start crying in five pages or less.
This is not a bad thing.
Oh, and Peter S.
Beagle can describe the hell out of a morning or a sideways glance.
A sweet story abut an old man who lives in a cemetery and has given up on life.
He can converse with and see the newly-dead and likes to befriend and help them on their journey.
When a recent widow comes to visit the grave of her husband, she notices Mr. Rebeck.
The 2 unlovely and unlikely protagonists fall in love, as do the 2 latest ghosts to enter the world of the dead.
Mr. Rebeck must soon make a decision to return to life or stay mired in the cemetery.
How Mrs. Klepper helps him is one of the sweetest parts of the story.
The two strike up a friendship just as Mr Rebeck starts to enjoy the company of a living person for the first time in 19 years by befriending Gertrude Klapperm, widow of another of the cemetery’s residents.A Fine and Private Place is a wonderful novel of magic realism and it revolves around the aforementioned four people (and the one raven).
The story is mostly confined to the cemetery (this fine and private place) though, as three of its main characters are unable to leave it: the ghosts because they physically can’t and Mr Rebeck because he won’t allow himself to.The significance of the latter is obvious: who is really living, who is really dead?
This is a contemplative book about life, love, and death that follows the interactions between people, ghosts, and a talking raven in a cemetery.
Beagle, get out of my head!" Then there is a man who is so afraid of life that he's spent the last 19 years living in a cemetery and his growing relationship with a widow who often visits her husband's grave, and I honestly loved every moment of their interactions.
Basically, I'm not sure whether I love this book or hate it, so I'll give it a 3.
When I saw "A Fine & Private Place" in the bookstore yesterday, a special re-released version of a yet unread Peter Beagle book, I had to get it.
There are a couple of lines in here that were particularly gorgeously crafted and followed me throughout the book.
Apt, since it's a book about ghosts and hauntings.Surprisingly, it doesn't read like a first novel.
Considering it takes place in a graveyard, this book isn't particularly spooky.
But if you think hard enough about the deeper meanings, it is possible to feel quite despondent about death.
I don't think that's what he intends, at all.
Prose that is poetic, with its beautiful and sometimes stark similes and metaphors, without being florid or cloying, and it shocked me how modern it could sound, in its ideas and its love for the city in which it takes place (there were a few tell-tale signs, like talk of the El and the fact that penicillin was new within twenty years of the book's publication!) It seemed almost as if it could be a play, with its idea-heavy dialog and stark characters and setting.
I first read A Fine and Private Place in 1970. It was my first introduction to the work of Peter S. Beagle. I was 18 years old. That I can still recall the opening scene so clearly is an indication that this book was a unique experience for me as a reader. I immediately followed this book by reading The Last Unicorn. A Fine and Private Place is a contemporary 'ghost' story set in a cemetary, and The Last Unicorn is a lovely fantasy set in an alternate world. I recommend both of them without reservation.
One of the most beautiful books I've ever read!
It has a way of being fantasy and literature all at the same time.
The characters are few and carefully drawn.
You know them; they're real to you; you become part of this little group that lives in the cemetery and contemplates, in death, what should have been answered while living, except we were too busy to think of it.
It has that feel.
I look forward to returning to this book.
It strikes me as one of those works that changes significantly as you age.
I wonder what I'll think of it in my 60s.
But when I later read the book I knew I had discovered a rare, amazing author.Fast-forward to another author, Margaret Weis, who told me that she had read Peter Beagle's first novel, A Fine and Private Place when she was young and it was one of her favorite books of all time.
yet for dozens of reasons I did not pick it up again for over a year.Maybe it was because of the recent death of my father, or the appeal of a more quiet, introspective story -- but after all this time I picked up my copy and have been making it my nighttime reading for the past week.I'll go ahead and warn you: A Fine and Private Place is not a page-turner.
Două dintre acestea sunt stafiile Laurei şi a lui Michael, care se întâlnesc în cimitirul domnului Rebeck pentru a realiza ceva ce nu au reuşit să facă în timpul vieţii.Ar mai fi şi doamna Klapper, văduva care se întâlneşte cu domnul Rebeck în drumul ei către mormântul soţului.
Apariţia doamnei Klapper va da peste cap lumea ascunsă şi liniştită a domnului Rebeck.Cele două perechi de personaje sunt văzute antitetic pe parcursul romanului, domnul Rebeck se ascunde de viaţă pe când doamna Klapper se teme de moarte, iar Michael şi Laura – deşi au avut amândoi parte de un sfârşit ciudat, privesc viaţa de apoi în moduri diferite: Michael încearcă cu disperare metode împotriva uitării trecutului, pe când Laura încearcă să părăsească mai repede lumea cimitirului.
I check the reviews here and discovered that, yes, folks agreed that it moved kinda slow, but that the character development was the be-all of the book and it would, in the end, be worthwhile.
(I was curious whether the setting was real, so I searched the 'net; while the cemetery is apparently fictional, I discovered the story had been made into a musical in about 1990.
Got a poor review, however.) The book was written in the late fifties, and has some characters that so forcibly drawn as Jewish that it feels anachronistic, but in the end it works well and sweetly.
Beagle first came on the scene with this fable about a man living in a cemetary who talks to ghosts and a raven, he was hailed as a new voice and compared with John Updike and Phillip Roth.
(I'm still trying to get my head around the idea of a book about a guy living in a cemetary and talking to ghosts and ravens and not a fantasy and general fiction.) Fortunately he didn't listen and kept writing.
To make Big Issues more palatable, he also uses a great sense of humor--mainly from the raven (yes, he talks).
I love Peter S.
Well, apparently I don't.When I started reading A Fine and Private Place, the back cover (which is the summary above) and the first chapter or so really pulled me in.
Or perhaps it wasn't confusing but I just didn't agree with it?
Whatever the truth of it is, this book just wasn't really for me.However, it was technically very well-written, as one expects from Peter S.
It may not have made it onto my ALL TIME FAVORITES list, but I'm not at all sorry that I read it.
I found A Fine and Private Place mostly rather tedious.The book is an emotional little stroll through the "death" or possibly The "after life" of Michael Morgan and the other denizens of the cemetery where he was interred.
There is a sad little story winding it's way through the volume, but mostly we get treated to the emotional travails and self discovery of Michael.
Not a book I enjoyed and I was just as glad to get to the end.
Beagle is aiming for as, while I wasn't left as cold by The Last Unicorn neither was I that taken with it.
I don't tend to read much fantasy or sci-fi - I'd rather be entertained by that genre in another medium - but often books are so well-written that it seems a shame not to enjoy them in their original creation.
A Fine and Private Place more than falls into this category.I loved the language, the descriptions and the fine, sensitive writing that made this book such a wonderful read.
It seemed to inhabit its own space and to heighten everything around me whilst I was reading it.
This is a high three star read.
This is an in depth character study and contemplative book.
Otherwise, this is a book about four main characters and a raven and what they think about the nature of life and death.
Though this takes place in summer, it had a very autumnal feel for me.
This also takes place in New York City.
I thought that setting came through in the story.
The raven was also pretty awesome and snarky.
I enjoyed this, but thought the ending was weaker than the beginning, hence the three rather than four stars.
2 1/2 starsIt's impressive that Peter Beagle wrote his first novel at the age of nineteen.
I've read his sweet novel, The Last Unicorn, as well as his picaresque nonfiction book, I See By My Outfit.
He has a special gift for the whimsical, and I'm glad he found his strength and stayed true to it in his later books.
In this book I liked the talking raven best of all, and I think he should have played a larger role.
He wanted to be a hummingbird when he was a kid, and wept bitterly when he was told he'd always be a raven, never a hummingbird.
I am infected with life and will die of it in time. A Fine and Private Place used "ghosts" to explore what it means to live. While many of the philosophical questions posed were ones I'm sure many people have asked themselves, I wasn't ever really fully engaged. There weren't any moments of profound clarity or anything like I've experienced with similar themes. Perhaps it was a matter of my mood and/or current state of being? Despite my lukewarm feelings about it right now, I do plan to read it
I am infected with life and will die of it in time.
A Fine and Private Place used "ghosts" to explore what it means to live.
While many of the philosophical questions posed were ones I'm sure many people have asked themselves, I wasn't ever really fully engaged.
There weren't any moments of profound clarity or anything like I've experienced with similar themes.
Perhaps it was a matter of my mood and/or current state of being?
Despite my lukewarm feelings about it right now, I do plan to read its revised edition at some point in the next few years.
At times, it reminds of me of Neil Gaiman's, but usually, it is a style all his own, simple yet charming and lovely.The plot line of this novel is unique.
He meets two ghosts named Michael and Laura, a live woman named Mrs. Klapper, and a live man named Campos, and his world changes forever.
I like the way that Beagle blends two different plot lines (that of Rebeck and that of Michael/Laura) with similar themes.
I recommend this book to people who love fantasy, books about ghosts, Beagle's writing, and tales of love and courage.
I read this book decades ago and loved it. That paperback edition is now brittle as crackers, so I ordered the latest edition to read again. I've already got three books on my "currently reading" list, but started to peek at this one over breakfast one Saturday morning, and couldn't peel myself away before I'd gotten well into it. I am very glad I did Sweet, sad, funny, and wise, "Fine and Private Place" left much more of an impression on me than Beagle's much better-known The Last Unicorn.
I read this in an omnibus of Beagle's work, and was really surprised by how much I liked it. I read the collection mostly for The Last Unicorn, and wasn't expecting much out of this story. But it was sweet, humorous, touching, a fun and lite read altogether. Not at all what I expected, but in a very good way.
I've tried, but haven't really enjoyed anything else I've read by Peter S. Beagle—my inner 12 year old girl just wasn't strong enough for The Last Unicorn—but something about this book is incredibly affecting. Sad in that makes-you-smile sort of way. One of those books that I would actually be a little nervous to read again, in case in doesn't live up to my memory of it.
