https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27266.Glass_Houses
pg 15:"What normal girl loved physics? Abnormal ones. Ones who were not ever going to be hot. And face it, being hot? That was what life was all about."Yeah, well, no thanks. Abandoned.
Claire's solution to this life-threatening problem is to find another place to live, off campus.
Apparently, this cop is send by the mean girls who just the other day abused Claire and she is in a big-big trouble (what?), therefore, Claire's roommates tell her, nobody can know where she is, she can't get outside or go to school, or she will be caught and killed!
You know, a reasonable person would ask, why wouldn't Claire go back home if her life is in such an immediate danger (please, don't bother telling me - "But she is such a dedicated student!
And why people agree to live in this backward, vampire-run town at all?
I'm sorry let me explain.- Girl goes to school, encounters psycho ass bullies.
She meets up with them again in class, THEY POUR SOME FUCKING ACID CRAP ON HER BACK!Friends tell her TO STAY AWAY.
Girl thinks she's fucking invincible and ignores.- Girl encounters bullies YET AGAIN.
Girl ignores AGAIN and says "you can't tell me what to do"- Girl encounters bullies (AGAINNNNNNNNNNNNN) They throw her in a van, tries TO BURN HER ALIVE!Can you see where I'm going with this?
I wanted to chuck my NOOK across the room, at the fucking idiocy I kept reading from Claire.
Instagram || Twitter || Facebook || Amazon || PinterestReading GLASS HOUSES is a lot like watching a horror movie. The main character is an idiot, and all plot development in the story line requires that you suspend your disbelief about said idiocy. What makes it hard, though, is that Claire Danvers is branded as a "genius." She's sixteen - "sixteen and a half," she'll be quick to tell you - and yet, got accepted to Harvard, MIT, Yale, and all these other great schools, but her parents don't wa
Her new friends tell her about how the town is run (by vampires) and this is arguably the most interesting aspect of the story, because I thought Caine did vampire politics in a relatively interesting way.
The best way to avoid being bitten is to stay off their radar, play by the rules, be home before curfew, and oh, yeah, don't invite them in.That's actually another thing I liked about GLASS HOUSES: Caine uses traditional vampire lore.
So. I've always been a lovey dovey vampire lover as opposed to the GRR, I'M AN EVIL BASTARD kind. But, as it turns out....I fell really hard for this book. And, instead of sexy bites shared between vampire lovers (or, rather, a human AND vamp), we had the scary as shit psycho vampires. Honestly, I was disappointed at first. I mean, really. Who doesn't like a little neck biting action? WHO I ASK, WHO?! But as the story progressed, it gave me something....a little more. -and Dad, who was glowering
I won't say it wouldn't be a cool future twist (I'm looking at you, book two *wink*), but, for now, I'm satisfied.
Oh yeah, I'm running through these vamp series like candy, so, yeah, I'm extremely behind on reviews FYI.
All I can really say is I adore this series very much and I am EXTREMELY excited to see what's next for my darling Claire and Shane-I love Eve and Michael, too, but babies first!!!
When i opened the book i saw that the chapters were like 20-30 pages long.
The is a lot going on in the book, and something excting happens in every chapter...it made me keep on reading.Secondly the character's.
How many books have i read and not liked the main character?- To many, but there are also ones i hate.
Sure, she can be stupid at times, but that's just who she is, and it is that, that makes her so realistic and interesting character.I can see there is going to be a romance somewhere along the line, but it's not in the book as much as some book do.
Your job as an author is to do such a good job creating your world so your reader thinks, "Vampires, werewolves, things that go bump in the night, sure, I buy it!"There are lots of ways to go about doing this, but part of the bedrock of a good set up is that it's completely believable.
Apparently they want to keep their sixteen-year-old baby close to home, but living in the dorm of a notorious party school.
In the modern world, if mom and dad want you close after you've graduated high school, they can do this wonderful thing known as let you live at home and take courses online.
When she goes to the Glass House to interview for the room she meets a bunch of crazy kids and instead of running as fast as she can and calling her parents, she spends the night.And then despite the fact that a crazy girl actually tried to kill her she goes to school and isn't even particularly careful.
Claire hates Monica because Monica is a psychopathic bitch who actually tries to kill her, not steal her boyfriend or mock her clothing.So all in all this book is really good.
Some might really like the story, but there were too many times the plot read as if it was tossed together like a bad salad & cheap tricks were used to get our heroine in & out of trouble.
Worst of all, the end is a super cliff hanger, the kind that screams "Read my next book or you're doomed to never know how it turns out." It's a shame.
If I run across another, I'll probably read it to see if I like it any better, so she didn't completely turn me off.
The author has a straightforward writing style and tells a straightforward story about an unpopular girl who gets the short end of the stick in a town ruled by vampires, until she makes some oh my god like totally cool and hottt friends.
Eventually, I kind of just gave up all hope for at least some bit of realism.Long story short, not all that great for a first book, but I've been told the series gets better, so I'll give the second book a try.
I also need to mention the other roommate, Eve, who likes the whole Goth thing.Claire Danvers is enrolled in college rearly due to her academic achievements.
Upon her arrival at the Glass House, she meets her said roommates Shane, Michael and Eve. Life starts to get real complicated being in Morganville and the people in the town are on the creapy side.
Claire is awesome but I have to say, her two male roommates keep your toes warm.Maybe it's a good thing I jumped on the Morganville band wagon late...now I get to read them consecutively!!
However, that doesn’t mean that she’ll call her parents and request a school change, because a quitter she is not (huh?)Looking for alternative accommodation, she goes to a house where three roommates are looking for a fourth one.
Claire still doesn’t call her parents to request a school change, because of the reason mentioned above (huh?)Her roommates take her in after she promises not to cause any trouble for them.
Once in campus, the mean girls grab her again, and so Claire calls her roommates to come to her rescue (HUH?)I so much wanted to drop this book after the first few chapters.
That was so much fun, I seriously loved it. If you're a fan of The Vampire Diaries (the show, not sure about the books since I haven't read them) I think you will love this because it has a lot of the same elements: vampires? OBVIOUSLY.hot guys? CHECK. action-packed ass-kicking? LOTS.crazy twists and turns? YUP.I seriously want to start a campaign to get this series made into a show. I'm really excited to start the next book in the series.
Yes, both girls, I don't know why they liked to read this kind of books.This is better than Twilight, in my own opinion.
Don't pity me and I don't like somebody will look at me that I have major major problem in life.Claire Danver a first year student of TPU been bullied by bad girls called the Moniketes.
But Claire can't take it anymore, so she entered this weird house called Glass' House and met Eve, Shane and Michael.
I found this one quite entertaining and engaging.
I thought the story was an interesting concept and I love that the ending left me wanting to delve right into the next one-- literally ending in the middle of an action scene.
I really like Claire, Eve, Shane and Michael as characters and I'm eager to see what happens to them next!
I wish Claire wasn't quite so young-- I think that would be a little easier to swallow although nothing unsavory happened.
There were quite a few things left hanging so I'm interested and looking forward to the next in the series.
Glass Houses is one of the books that I normally wouldn't read, but decided to anyway.
You know, for the teens ;-)Glass Houses is about Claire, a teenage genius who finds herself in college at the young age of sixteen.
I feel like there was something missing there...Also (view spoiler)[ I felt Claire and Michael had more of a romantic connection than Claire and Shane, but I guess I'll see where this series goes  (hide spoiler)]So while I didn't love the book, it was fun and cute, and I'm probably going to continue the series just to see where things go.Happy reading everyone!
However, do not get me wrong I enjoyed the book and the colorful cast of Claire, Shane, Michael and Eve and the turmoil that seems to find them.It took me forever to locate this series.
All while thinking about this was the fact that the doctors at the clinic just let Claire’s injuries go without a second thought.
Oh my I need to stop ranting before everyone thinks I did not enjoy the book.
I had to keep reading just to find out what Michael was and how the others would take it.
I look forward to the series.My absolute favorite and will read again and again.
This story, these characters; they've totally hooked me.
But they are about to become far more than housemates; by stepping into Glass House, Claire has entered into the secret world that seethes beneath the town of Morganville...a world owned by vampires.
Luckily, none of her new friends are vampires...but they're also much more than they seem.Navigating a breathtakingly dangerous and suspenseful maze of danger, intrigue, and secrets, Claire has found a brave and loyal set of people to ally with.
This book was simple and fast-paced, and the main characters caught and held me immediately with their quirks, kindness, humor, loyalty, and realism.
We are told that she finished highschool in two years (which, by the way, means a lot of summer classes if her school is anything like mine) and that Ivy League colleges were practically begging at her feet.
'Not everyone is up on the classics- except freaks like me.' 'I corrected Monica on the fact that WWII wasn't about China, but the people around her probably didn't know what it was anyway.' Ms. Caine, are we supposed to believe Claire is smart because she puts down all these other people?
I really like the whole idea of the glass house and the protection it offers. I think I'm pretty much Team Michael. Love the head vampire lady. The scenes she was in were really riveting!
Actual rating: 4.5 stars.It seems I read a lot of vampire books these days.
I really liked two and third is currently being read, so we'll see.
I liked this book very much.
She wants to kill Claire just because she made her look stupid in front of her crowd.
And not to mention she set fire to Shane's house, which unintentionally (I hope) killed his little sister?
She just seemed really ridiculous sometimes and I really laughed one or two times when she said something stupid.The romance is nothing like I wanted it to be.
I don't like Shane, okay?!
I'm addicted. It's official... I LOVE THE MORGANVILLE VAMPIRES. I need to admit something though.. I am awful at sticking to series... But I truly believe that I will read all of the books in this one. I loved the characters, plot, and everything else involved in this delicious book.
Loved this YA vamp tale - although the ending was mean for the poor reader. However Rachel assures me it wasn't her idea - I can understand that!
There are many people in my Goodreads friend list who absolutely love this book.
Now, call me an asshole but I thought that the people who loved Morganville Vampires are overreacting, and that the ones who hate it are right to do so.
Go on with reading the book and you’ll find out why Claire, the MC, formed this thought in the first place.
(view spoiler)[Her major is actually Physics, and you find this out in the second book.
I can’t wait to start book #2.Oh, and one final thing before I end the review.
When Claire gets on the wrong side of Monica, queen bitch bee of college, and her life is threatened she desperately seeks off-campus housing at the Glass House.
Owned by the mysterious Michael Glass, Claire's other roomies include Eve, a rebellious goth with a caring nature and sarcastic, funny-guy Shane; a highly entertaining mix.Most of the humans in Morganville have a vampire patron meaning they're protected, but the teens of Glass House are different, they're unprotected by choice and hence ...
Thanks to the cliffhanger ending in Glass Houses and Hannah's enthusiasm I'll be ordering, not just the next book, The Dead Girl's Dance, but as many as I can afford :-)
Η πλοκή είναι αφελέστατη, αλλα η ιστορία είναι διασκεδαστική, οπότε περνάει αρκετά ευχαριστα η ωρα! Αυτά!
It didn’t actually call to me, it shouted at me to - at the very least - read the first book and then decide if I’m anti-vampire YA.
Rachel Caine has given me everything I hate in a book, but she turned it upside down into everything I love to read.
I hate reading about vampires because the female lead is always falling in love with it.
If you’ve already read this book and loved it, also check out Tim O’ Rourke’s Kiera Hudson vampire series.
QUICK OVERVIEW: If you love books that have dangerous vampires around every corner, a quick moving and realistic plot, and characters that will have you packing up your home to move in next door to them, then you will love Glass Houses.
And the plot moved at a realistic pace and there wasn't anything I read and thought, only in a book/movie.I could rant and rave about how much I loved this book all day, but I will spare you.
Its not the age or the maturity of the characters/plot, but something in the writing style that makes adult books hard to not like.
Very much a predicament when you have so many unread books sitting on your bookshelf, but that's just how good this series is.
As she forges more than just a friendship with Michael, Shane and Eve, she quickly comes to realize they must bond together to protect one another from the baddies and the dangers they are faced.What a great kick-off to what I know is an awesome series.
Definitely a book I'd feel comfortable recommending to my fellow avid readers who are fans of paranormal and all that is vampiric and gothic.
This book was just awesome!I love the instant chemistry the four friends have! Claire, Eve, Michael and Shane are all great, great characters!The writing is stylish and the plot and wit of it all is so much fun!I love finding new series to love, and The Morganville Vampires Series is just the blast that I needed!
