https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10507293-the-selection
(Tangent: I was describing this book to a friend, and I said, "The heroine is named America Singer.
As for lack of consistency: Maxon, for example, is described as being not very good with girls ("I don't meet very many women," he says at one point).
All people have their own agendas, Cass, and to describe the girls otherwise--especially when you are using them to make a point about America's kindness/thoughtfulness--ends up making America look even more self-absorbed, naive, and oblivious.4.
Then, after like two meetings (dates lol), America is hurt when Maxon didn't tell her something because she thinks that they are 'friends'.
I'm not usually a huge fan of the whole "I'm special because I'm plain" which this whole book does use as a giant smoke screen for its sexism: there's the inevitable conversation in which someone says that big groups of girls always means there's snarky bitching and tons of competition, which doesn't hang together at all if you look at what is perpetuating this competition.
This book, had it not been the Nutella free sample of dystopia in which there's no greater peril than running out of bow tie pasta and having to resort to lasagne sheets, could have been a fantastic allegory for the way in which women compete and are punished for it, when in fact it is men and male benefactors specifically who both incite and perpetuate said competition.
Mentioning it in the same breath as The Hunger Games is a travesty, however, since this book barely qualifies as a dystopian novel--and certainly the quality of the story, characters, themes, and writing don't come even close to comparing.Here are some facts which may help you decide whether you want to read this book:Character Names: Our main character's name is America Singer.
Booo.Most Annoying Element of All: The story ends on a cliffhanger, as if there was so much going on in this one book, it could not be contained in a single volume.************************************************************Random Quotes:Why did Mom have to push me so much?
Oh, the pains of people thinking you’re gorgeous.This beautiful girl enters The Selection - a contest of sorts where the poor competitors volunteer to compete for the heart of a handsome prince.You’ve probably heard that there’s very little world-building, but I actually wish the author hadn’t bothered with the bit of world-building she tried to throw in.
Maybe Cass assumed her YA audience would be so history-dumb that it wouldn't matter if countries did stupid things for stupid reasons.I guess I learned my lesson about trying out those "popular" books I never read.Blog | Facebook | Twitter | Instagram | Tumblr | Youtube
"I'm not so stupid as to believe that you've completely forgotten about your former boyfriend. I know you think there are others here more suited for me and this life, and I wouldn't want you to rush into trying to be happy with any of this. I just...I just want to know if it's possible..."  THE SELECTION was one of the best books I have ever read! I don't think I quite expected that once I flipped the first page that I couldn't stop! But guess what it happened! I am constantly thinking about
Everything about this book I absolutely loved and I have no freaking clue how I am going to wait more than a year for the second book to come out.
As for America Singer our heroine of the story who is a five in the caste system, she doesn't want anything to do with THE SELECTION.
Later on, Aspen feels America should at least try for The Selection and she gets picked as one of 35 girls.
But I most definitely want America and Maxon together.
If you can get past the "I'm smelling my armpit" cover, and also the silly names, and the horribly unoriginal storyline, and the terrible writing ... wait, really, you can get past all of that? What does that leave you then? A nice ... font?Seriously, though, read reviews for this one. They're not favorable for a reason.
.[**NOTE: This review was not affected by online drama or controversy. Everything I have to say here is based on my own personal opinion about the book itself, even though I definitely think Cass needs a new publicist.][**NOTE #2: All the captions in the non-animated picture memes were made by me-- because, you know, I'm just THAT brilliantly witty. So please don't use them without asking my permission first. Thanks :)]  35 GIRLS. 1 CROWN. THE COMPETITION OF A LIFETIME. Now with a story premise
However, The Selection turned out to be one of those unfortunate books that had about twenty-dozen little things in it that just aggravated the crap out of me, with the end result being that I was entertained by it for all the wrong reasons.So first, a word about love triangles.
In the end, I just had to take Illea for what it was-- a make-believe fairy-tale kind of setting that had no plausible explanation for why it exists or how it came to be.Now if the long-awaited, delicious drama of a 35-girl competition had actually happened, I really wouldn't have cared about the absence of a thought-provoking dystopia.
What's funny is when other characters ask America what she does for a living because THEY HAVE NO IDEA WHAT IT COULD POSSIBLY BE.House of Mary Sues: It might not surprise you that this book is about a super special snowflake, but did you know that virtually ALL the characters are just as special?
In effect, she is defined by this love triangle and her story becomes a shipping war.I was hoping The Selection wouldn't fall into that trap and was ecstatic that America was leaving Aspen behind when she left to live at the palace.
If there is one thing this book was good at, it was its predictability.Also, did I mention how America has never had a female friend?
*An ARC was provided by HarperTeen in exchange for an honest review*I don't usually go for books like this one, with the whole princess competition thing going on (actually I've never even started one because they don't look good), but let me tell you, this book is amazing.I loved it.
I loved how Kiera Cass manipulated the characters (Aspen) to make America sign up, and then dropped him, but still kept him around.
I usually don't like books with it in them, but it totally worked for this one.I love Maxon.
I hope she ends up with Maxon.And, last but not least, I really liked America.
4/5 Stars ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐“True love is usually the most inconvenient kind.”Wow! How refreshing! I feel so much lighter now, like a weight has been lifted off of me. I feel happy and fluffy and bubbly. This is such a fan and entertaining read. I can't even review it properly. You can't just criticize harshly a trash YA book, made to not be taken seriously. Guys, let some love into your life! This book meets The Hunger Games meets The Bachelor meets America's Next Top Model meets any kind of trashy realit
This book meets The Hunger Games meets The Bachelor meets America's Next Top Model meets any kind of trashy reality show you will find on TV meets any kind of chick lit movie you will find on the cinema.
I don't want to ruin the jolly feeling this book gave me!
To live in a palace and compete for the heart of gorgeous Prince Maxon.But for America Singer, being Selected is a nightmare.
I feel like he's only with America for the physical stuff.
When I read books, I always picture actors or singers or whatever for the characters I like most.
It is a true guilty pleasure, fluffy kind or read with a hint of action and intrigue for future books in the series.I will admit, the concepts are not very original.
Wondering who she picks, or who Maxon picks,what is up with the other girls, etc.So, while the concept is not original, the characters are interesting, and the story is written in a way that is easy to get wrapped up in it.
In the way in captured my attention once I started reading, and my desire to read it again I would normally say 5, but since it does lean SO heavily on the concept of The Bachelor.
Did not finish; stopped at page 208.I could not get behind America who is suffering from an affliction called TSTL syndrome (too stupid to live.) Her choices seem robotic and awkward, her dialogue and self-deprication feel desperate and forced.
I tried to finish this one, but not finishing a novel speaks loudly to its readability and I do not knock any reviewer who still presents their opinions without first finishing the book.
Not finishing a book says to me, I-Didn't-Like-It. A well written review tells me why.
***I would also like to say what a huge fan of Kiera's vlogs I am and how surprised I was that this book lacked her exuberant personality.
Here's how this book should be marketed: Dystopian world meets 'The Bachelor'.....sort of.NOT THE HUNGER GAMES.
just a bunch of young women vying for the heart of one very handsome prince.Personally, I've been excited to read this book from day one of it's announcement.
BESTILL MY 5 YEAR OLD HEART!I loved the whole premise of the book.
It was simple, clean and just an over all great book.
No character is ever perfect, which I am sure we will see further development of all 'The Selection' characters as the series progresses.The CW has put together a pilot for 'The Selection' and I can't wait to see how they will translate this from book onto our TV screens.
Ethan Peck as Prince Maxon...
The way America is written as a special snowflake would normally annoy the ever loving fuck out of me, but I actually really enjoyed her as a character and loved her banter, wit and her overall personality.The other girls in the competition are portrayed as vapid, shallow bitches and America calls them "fake" etc.
I read 250 pages of this in one sitting and I enjoyed it, dammit.
This review also appears on The Dreaming Reader.May I present to everyone The Hunger Games...Girlified!Disclaimer: Despite the fact that I am drawing comparisons between the two, there is no way that this sad little novel (if it can even be called that) will ever match up to The Hunger Games.Similarity #1: A "cutthroat" competition in which only one winner will be left standing.
Why It's Girlified: Instead of engaging in bloody struggles to the death, the girls instead compete by wearing prettier dresses, better makeup, and having etiquette.
Please don't be like me, in that others' countless negative reviews weren't enough to convince you this book is utter crap.
1.5 stars "I didn't want to be royalty. And I didn't want to be a One. I didn't even want to try." Let me tell you a story. Once upon a time, a girl who doesn't think she's pretty and has jackshit ambition is suddenly elevated to a Chosen One status. She gets to live a palace where she's waited on hand and foot as well as gets a makeover and pretty dresses. During her time, she slowly finds herself falling for a handsome boy in a position of power, but her heart is still with her scruffy low-cla
But whereas Shadow and Bone had creative fantasy elements and the ending going for it, The Selection has precious few redeeming qualifies.
Looking past the fact that she's named after her career like a Smurf, she's your typical YA heroine who doesn't think she's pretty (even though she totes is) and doesn't want to be special (even though she totes is).
When you really think about it, it's just another way to show off how sweet and special she is.And I never thought I'd encounter a literary love interest I hated more than Jeb from Splintered, but here he is in all his "me man, you woman" caveman glory.
[...] Lots of girls give me backhanded compliments, or little remarks, things like that.” Ah yes, I nearly forgot that it is the vocation of every female ever to be totally mean to every other female just for the hell of it.- This may be personal preference, but I just hate that trope of “omg what do u do with a crying female!!!
That being said, I have nothing personal against Kiera Cass and she seems like a lovely human being, but I really did not like this book.
I do know she's a fucking narc though.I have determined that America clearly doesn't know what the hell she wants, and needs to realize that if she is oh-so-good at giving the prince political advice, and is just as pretty as everyone claims she is, she needs to consider becoming a goddamn symbol of rebellion.
3.5 starsThe Bachelor + The Princess Diaries + DRAMA  I hope you find someone you can't live without.I really do. And I hope you never have to know what it's like to have to try and live without them.  North America was destroyed (wars, financial crisis, etc). A man of the name Gregory Illéa pulled together what was left to form Illéa. This new country came with a strict caste system with Ones being the royal family all the way down to Eights - poor, starving untouchables.America Singer, a Five,
This new country came with a strict caste system with Ones being the royal family all the way down to Eights - poor, starving untouchables.America Singer, a Five, is among the artist caste.
Every week she remains in the prince's pool of suitable companions, her family gets much needed money.
Every week she remains, she's one step closer to becoming a One. As much as her family is rooting with her, she decides to cut a deal with Maxon.
Sometimes you need a dishy, cat-fighting, true-love-finding, princess-y sort of book and this one was certainly it.
The Selection by Kiera CassAhhh, I loved this book sooo much, and I completely see the hype!!Although most of this book was quiet predictable, that didn't even matter because all the other amazing qualities of this book outshone that!Kiera Cass seems like such a cute and lovely person, so I'm so happy I loved her book!I cannot wait to continue on with this series, I'm totally Team Maxon people!!
Side note: THANK YOU 'THE SELECTION' FOR GETTING ME OUT OF MY HORRIBLE READING SLUMP.
I shall be forever gratefulAnother side note: It was such a fun experience reading this alongside my cousin!
Buddy reading actually worked for me for once, woo!
Had i read this two or three years ago when I was neck deep in the my love for predictable happily ever afters, I would have been head over heels for this book.
The book was well written and with a melodic drift that made you want to find out what happens next, even though you kinda already knew what's going to happen since the first page.
In a simply mediocre kind of way.
But then again that is debatable, given my limited time to read, and the frankly averageness of this book.
That I admit was also a source of attraction to me.
Sadly, however, where premise and good intentions fail, mediocrity prevails.
I liked that America and Maxon are just friends at first, that there isn't an overabundance of slimy creamed corn in the forms of staring into each other's swirling, bottomless eyes, and soulful stares meant to convey their deep, deep longing for one another.
And, truth be told, Prince Maxon is kind of creepy.
What could have been an interesting, exciting, emotionally jarring novel is instead a shallow and puerile rag for teeny boppers.
It's like someone snatched a girl out of a mall somewhere, sat her down with a computer, and told her to write like George Orwell.
Little to no plot. If readers are addicted to watching THE BACHELOR, then they may be able to drudge through this one. The only thing "dystopian" about it is the caste system. There are so many other great dystopian novels out there that readers should pass on this one.For full review, please visit:  http://litnerd.weebly.com/dystopia.html(scroll down)
(Basically 90% of Disney movies, where our heroine learns she should marry for love and not for money or prestige.) Then add in a pinch of horrendous reality TV like America’s Next Top Model, and you’ve got The Selection by Kiera Cass.
And it’s SO HORRIBLE that America has to be taken away from her friends and family to compete for the love of a boy she doesn’t know who is only marrying her for political gain.
I don’t quite know why, it just really bugs me.) I’d also like to add that like all dystopian worlds, there’s a REBELLION outside their cosy little enclaves.
First of all,  DON'T JUDGEI’m falling into a slump and nothing can get me up other than fluffy ass romance so am I going to reread the addictive trash aka my guilty pleasure that is the selection, yes I am. Send help
I was not expecting to like this book as much as I did (though everyone told me how addicting it was).
It's definitely a book that is hard to put down.
It's not necessarily the best writing (though I LOVED the world and world building) and I pretty much want to punch every character in the face all the time (and I'm assuming I will want to do that more throughout the next two books) but I still really enjoyed myself.
Sometimes you just gotta read those books where you yell at the characters because they are SO DUMB but you love them anyway.
Reason in comments.
So I never thought I would read this book, let alone finish it but it happened.Interestingly enough... I'll probably continue if I can find the other books at my library sale...No idea how to rate it but it was as I expected. A bit of a guilty read, fast paced, I rolled my eyes a few times and I didn't like the love triangle but again... I finished it and want to continue so I guess it wasn't so bad!
First, I want to say that I LOVED this book.
I love the names of the three main characters, America, Aspen, and Prince Maxon.
Aspen is someone she has known all her life and the last two years, they fell in love.
They frequently clean houses and other such jobs and never have enough money for food or clothes.
The Royal Family has decided it is time for their young Prince Maxon to find a wife.
America does not want to enter but Aspen tells her he wants her to and so does her family.
And, she meets Prince Maxon.
I INSTANTLY fell in love with Maxon.
Encantada, fascinada y enamorada de esta historia. Tanto la ambientación como el protagonista desprenden glamour, educación y caballerosidad. La Selección es un cuento de hadas dentro de una distopía. Me arrebató muchísimo suspiros! Espero leer pronto la continuación de la historia.#TeamMaxonReseña Completa: http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
Encantada, fascinada y enamorada de esta historia. Tanto la ambientación como el protagonista desprenden glamour, educación y caballerosidad. La Selección es un cuento de hadas dentro de una distopía. Me arrebató muchísimo suspiros! Espero leer pronto la continuación de la historia.#TeamMaxonReseña Completa:​ http://bastvilard.blogspot.com/2015/0...
