https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/114945.Goddesses_Whores_Wives_and_Slaves
First published in the 70′s it probably contains some disputed or out-of-date ideas and evidence by now, but it was one of (if not ‘the’) first academic texts to thoroughly examine women’s roles in Ancient Greece and Rome.
The book examines female roles from Ancient Greece – predominantly Athens as that’s where most of the literature and archaeological evidence comes from, but also Sparta and other city states which were generally lot more favourable towards women’s rights than ‘the birthplace of democracy’ was.
I have a big problem with most books about the Sacred Feminine or about Women in History because there's a big tendency to just say things and not back it up with historical references.
Some authors tend to say "Women did this" or "Goddesses were portrayed like this" but show no source to these affirmations and I really don't like that since I have no way of understanding where it came from.
This book is not like that, the author writes in a very clear but detailed way and provides all the sources necessary for the reader to understand and check the information she's giving us.
Short, but pretty densely-packed with information, and yet still pleasant to read. I'm sure armchair historians will quibble with the work, but let 'em (where's their book?) ... I found the book to be well-researched, well-sourced, and well-reasoned. There were some "leaps" and assumptions, but that goes with the territory. I would have liked another 100-200 pages of this book, but I enjoyed what was there.
I'm not convinced by all the arguments raised in this, but as a groundbreaking book it is exceptional.This is a thorough look at a subject that has only recently been a part of Classical Studies, and often discusses the lack of evidence as well as the evidence itself.
An informative book, but Pomeroy's feminism shines through so much that I have no faith in her objectivity. Combined with the age of this book, I'd advise everyone to look at Pomeroy's assertions with a highly critical eye.
I found that I couldn't focus well on this book.
It isn't very academic because it treats a lot of assumptions about the classical world as fact.
This is a common problem with the question of women in the ancient world as remaining literature generally portrays women in epic roles which are quite a bit different from the material evidence that is now used to understand the lives of everyday women.
It is disappointing For a more accurate and thoughtful critical review of women's role in classic literature, I would recommend Tragic Ways of Killing a Woman.If material history is more your cup of tea, then i would recommend more recent archaeology studies and peer reviewed essays.
One of my absolute favorite books from college. Note that the list of "types" in the title is also a ranking. In many ways it was better to be a whore in Classical Greece than a wife, especially in the upper classes. Exhaustively researched using primary sources such as laws, legal documents, letters, plays, etc. from the period. Surprisingly engaging and easy to read.
Pomeroy looks at the roles of women in the classical world of the Greeks, Romans and Egyptians. Interesting to see how some attitudes rarely change, even after thousands of years. Well written and researched, worth reading whether you're a feminist or not
Published during the seventies, this is one of the first--if not the first--books in English to discuss the roles of women in classical antiquity from a scholarly feminist perspective. It is written on an introductory level suitable for undergraduates and studious high schoolers.
more like a 3.75. Good, very interesting.
Really enjoyed the chapters about Athens and Sparta but towards the end of the Roman chapters it kind of ran out of steam which is odd as that's where the evidence becomes more available
Now-classic feminist history of the topic; seems fairly obvious, but that means that it did its job.
A pretty interesting account of the lives of women in classical Greek and Roman societies. My main problem with it would be the form or pace of it which made it longer to read than I expected. I enjoyed the material and the way the author made good efforts to take a look at all women, not just the upper class ones, but I did not always have the motivation for this kind of scholar writting; so I often picked up another read instead of continuing this one when the motivation wasn't there.
In this book, Ms. Pomeroy draws on archeological evidence as well as histories and literature of the times to bring to light the little known stories of women in the Ancient World. It's an excellent read and a recommended resource for anyone with an interest in the Ancient World.
Don't judge me, yes, I'm able to read two books in the same day. This book was easy to read, the font was huge, and I already knew most of the information. I'd recommend it to people just getting into the ancient world.
This is a book I read with a history book reading club. This book was published in 1975 and you can hear the 1970's come through loud and clear. An interesting read especially if you are interested in Early Rome and Greece. Having a bit of knowledge of antiquity would is helpful.
I really wanted to like this book, but the author jumps around too much to make any sense. There's a lot of 'we'll see that in such and such chapter' or just plain jumping from one culture to another without clear connections. All around disappointing read.
3.5
A good overview of women’s roles and status in Ancient Greece and Rome. You might need some secondary sources to look up some of the events or myths that Pomeroy briefly touches on.
What results from this inquiry is utterly fascinating.
Other than some surviving poetry by Sappho, the bulk of what the author had to work with was written by men about women – often in a seemingly hyperbolic, idealized view on how they felt women should be.
Regardless, Pomeroy examines poetry, prose, plays, philosophical writings, legal documents, and letters to construct a highly engaging glimpse into the lives of the different classes of women indicated in the book's title.
Aristotle blamed the later decline of Spartan population to its women, because the men were mostly absent, the women enjoyed a lot of freedom and many refused to follow the strict discipline and as a whole, the population started to decrease.
He forbad all sale of children or self sale into slavery with the exception of a sell of an unmarried woman who lost her virginity by her male guardian and Solon created brothels and prostitution for foreign merchants in Athens.
Sometimes even states would give dowry to men who had served in the army.
If a women had no dowry she would probably serve as a concubine and not a wife.
Detailing the lives of women within Greece and Rome, Pomeroy presents a history that seeks to dismantle the patriarchal narratives casted upon contemporary understandings of classical cultures.
Pomeroy's text may have some blind spots, but overall there is a wealth of material here for the classically minded feminist.
My chief complaint is that in the edition I own, a large number of commas have been replaced with periods in my type.
I have no idea how this error happened on so wide of a scale, and I hope this oversight was fixed in subsequent editions.
I read this book because I am a feminist, a Latin teacher, and a lover of anything about the ancient world.
Clearly this book is well deserving of its secure place on college curricula, and is a fantastic sourcebook.
I learned so much, often about areas of the ancient world I didn't even know I didn't know about.
The writing style is direct and organized, and I underlined frequently because I was learning so much.The only downside was that it wasn't exactly a page-turner.
But I kept wondering if I was doing a disservice to the book by reading it front to back.

Pomperoy is one of my favourite academics when it comes to Gender in the ancient world, I enjoyed her contribution to 'Ancient Greece: A Political, Social and Cultural History' and her work in 'Spartan Women'.This book really brings together a lot of her work really highlights both the difficulty and the importance of examining the lives of women in ancient Greece and Rome.
This is not a book that only Classicist, ancient historians or gender specialists can read.
Anyone with an interest in the topic will get something out of this book.
This book was perfect for a paper I wrote on the sexism and misogyny we inherited from Victorian-age interpretations of pre-Gothic art and artifacts. This is a perspective, since so much of ancient history is left unverifiable, but I enjoyed her perspective immensely. As always, cross-check your ideas with updated research, but this book added a lot of depth and texture to my concepts of women in history, and how skewed things get when we rely solely on the analyses of men long dead in piecing together our history.
Dry in places but still very interesting. It's also a bit fascinating how relevant this continues to be in terms of our understanding the roots of Roman-influenced Western culture - the author observes as much in her preface from 1994 when discussing why she didn't revise the 1975 text, and it's now 2012. She writes that she "would present some of this material slightly differently today" but the crux of it remains the same, which says as much about the strength of her work as it does about our societies.
Sarah Pomeroy places students of the New Testament in her debt in this careful study. She provides a view of the ancient cults which sharpens the background detail in Paul's letters to Corinth and Roman Asia. Never again can students of Ephesians and 1 and 2 Timothy announce that we can know little about the ancient religions of the people of Asia. Sarah Pomeroy leads us by the hand on an expedition that finds the facts.
I probably had unrealistic expectations about this one, based on how long I've been hearing about it. Informative and fairly easy to read (for an academic book). Some conclusions seem based on Pomeroy's opinions without really explaining to us why/how her opinions are informed, but at least once that was based on my missing an earlier citation (e.g. my own reading comprehension fail). Ends fairly abruptly.
Pomeroy's book about women in antiquity is rich in information, and spans across many historical periods in antiquity to give an in-depth account of women's lives and stories during those eras. It covers views of women in literature, poetry, mythology, and philosophy, as well as legislation pertaining to women and their rights. Highly recommend for people interested in women's history and history in general!
