https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/323578.Sacagawea
Sacagawea was one of my childhood heros. This Childhood of Early American series is interesting, but obviously for a young reader, not a young adult. I really love to read fiction about pioneers and explorers and how life was lived back then.
We liked it, but it hasn't been one of our favorite read alouds.
Cute, not a heavy read but an engaging introduction for elementary school audience. Attitudes are a little dated but inoffensive.
I loved this book as a child, and revisiting it was the same lovely experience again.
In the book, her beloved grandmother is not able to travel with them at one point, and so asks to be left behind in a little hut.
This is a little sad, as she clearly doesn't expect to see them again, but not written in such a way to overwhelm a child.
As an adult I realized how difficult her life must have really been (and I wondered if her husband actually had two wives based on some of the information in the text) but a child would not have the same sense of the challenges and instead will likely be captivated by all the adventure, made all the more wonderful because the tale is true.
Taking a second look at this novel I noticed some glaring oversights, like the fact that Sacagawea was kidnapped and 'married' off to someone they called her husband.
As a child in the 4th grade there was just a lot of 'things' about the world I did not know that completely change the relationships of the characters in this book.
I was forced to wander off into the wonderful world of cyberland in search of concrete facts concerning Sacagawea's life.
In Louis and Clarks' journal she is referred to as a slave, pregnant mother, and young girl (probably around the age of 16).
Well. I either hated the saccharine portrayal of Sacagawea's abduction and "marriage" to a French trader or I hated Sacagewea's personality as portrayed by this historical fiction book. Since the author left out the discussion of Indians and politics and statutory rape I decided that I actually hated the book. Children shouldn't believe that abduction and marriage to your captor is okay under any circumstances. The trapper should have been shot for buying women. I would have given it no stars but then it would not have looked like I read it. I'm glad the author isn't a Goodreads author.
I thought the book Sacagawea was very exciting. I learned a lot of interesting facts about Sacagawea and and her adventure. The only thing I disliked about the book was that it was a Biography and I prefer to read fiction books.
I loved this book it was great. But I want to know more about the adventure with Lewis and Clark. Other than that it was really good
A great classic.
soo many things and first of all she was captured then sold!!!
Borrowed. It was very interesting. I was surprised that she saved her little brother's life when she was seven.
It was sad! : (
This was an interesting, fictional story of Sacagawea's life. I enjoyed how the different events and happenings were kept interesting, even if they may not have been true.
Gotta' read this!"Sacagawea! Is it really you!? I haven't seen you since the Lewis and Clark expedition!"
This was not my favorite in the series, but it was still good. It exposes you to life as a Native American. Living books are great for teaching.
9/7/12 - Got this today at a sale up by mom $0.30.
Great book for anyone who hates those boring biographies and wants more of a narrative type of biography.
I liked it. It tells about her a doll a medicine woman and she got her a bunch of stuff to put in its bag.
Did NOT have ANY good facts about Sacagawea. It was probably mostly made up. Did not help at all with night of the notables.
X2
i thought this book was very well written about sacagawea came to be and why she is quite famous now
