https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/14865.Vanishing_Acts
I read the first 100 or so pages of this one and didn't want to read any more.
Also, I could tell the answer to the "mystery" of why the father did what he did was going to be a long time coming--there seemed to be a lot of secrets conveniently being kept, which I think really just served to draw the story out and keep the reader interested along the way.
And at 419 pages, that's a long way to go.
I was curious enough to find out the "why" of the mystery, so I read the ending and leafed thru a few middle bits.
The number one thing I hated about this book was the Hopi character who has breast cancer and kills herself, without bothering to get any treatment, just jumps off a cliff in front of Delia, who doesn't stop her because if she had to look forward to losing her hair and a breast, she'd probably do it too.
This is because Delia lives in a novel and Jodi Picoult has a lot of points to make.Again, even though Eric himself hasn't drunk for 2 years, Jodi Picoult can't leave him alone and let him be a good guy.
Okay, I got to disk 10 and could not listen to this nonsense anymore!
There's so much to this book that coulda been left out!
I liked this book in the beginning and the way it was set up switching perspectives but then when it got to Fitz' charachter and everytime thereafter I felt ill ..
what man is really like this?
I thought I was listening to a female w/ all this unrequited love b.s.
I'm wondering why people like Jodi Piccoult so much and am very apprehensive about picking another one of her books ..
I have sort of a love-hate relationship with Jodi Picoult books.
I really enjoyed Plain Truth and My Sister's Keeper, but there are definitely things about her writing that irritate me.
I personally think metaphors would be more effective (and part of a beautiful written piece) if they are few and really well woven into the book.
So basically, if you've read and liked other Picoult books, read this one too.
But if you've never read one of her books, start with a much better one (Plain Truth is my favorite) and only get to this one if you really like it.
I have been working my way through  Jodi Picoult's books for the last couple of weeks and was really disappointed by this book.
My main problem with this book was that there was too much going on, from start to finish there were just too many story lines (I felt the relationship between Delia, Erik and Fitz was pointless and was really disappointed in the outcome at the end of the book) and characters to keep track of (all of Andrew's jail mates and the Hopi people added unnecessary confusing trying to keep everyone straight).
The final surprise at the end of the book was almost an after though (although the basis of it was introduced early in the book) and although it served a purpose I think it was too easy of an out.
Once again telling the story through first person accounts of the main characters, she weaves together a family drama centered on a "kidnapping" that had occurred 28 years earlier.Thirty-one year old Delia Hopkins, aka Bethany Matthews, discovers her loving and devoted father, took her away from her alcoholic mother and her childhood in Scottsdale, AZ, created new identities for himself and his daughter, and raised her on lies in New Hampshire.
Through Andrew Hopkins, aka Charlie Matthews, we get an insider's look at life in prison and learn to understand the desperation of a loving father.
I enjoyed the initial plot outline, it was something different and I felt empathy for the lead characters.
By the time the grand court case that Picoult is famous for came to be, I had lost ninety percent of my patience with the book and found myself skimming the long court based conversations.Indeed some of the characters are interesting but too many of their actions felt contrived.
With still several weeks of the year to go, I hope to exceed my initial target by tackling several more books on my ever growing to read list.
I really dislike Picoult's use of different fonts for each character.
(she does the same in My Sister's Keeper If you cannot write a character well enough that it can't stand alone in generic font..you ought to start writing from one perspective only.
Page 300, review: (view spoiler)[This book is getting increasingly more difficult to finish reading.
I'm tiring of the jail chapters, the page long poorly written "raps from the courtyard", the entire meth operation with the father is just coming across really flimsy, unnecessary and highly uncharacteristic of the character Picoult has built - I just think she went too far over-board with this book.
Which is worse than completely off, somehow.Mostly I feel like she crammed a few too many side-plots and characters into this.- I really could have done without the love triangle or Fitz the character (whiny, useless, zero agency in the story)- Same with her mother's santaria.
First I was CRAZY annoyed at all the dudes who treat her like some fragile thing who can't handle anything and therefore has to be lied to and has NO right to her own truth and her own story.
THis is the second book of hers that I've read and I"ve just started a new one.
I appreciate the depth of the topics she writes about, this one, the ethics of a father's decision to kidnap his daughter from a staggering, alcoholic mother.
Did the father have the right to make that decision for everyone based on his fears and discomforts in the situation?
I think Jodi Piccoult touched on some of the more elusive elements of situations like these, and touched on them well.
So far, two books into her collection, I am very impressed.
I mean having five different character's point of view is not really the problem if she only carefully construct the whole series.It started when an officer is looking for her father and accusing of kidnapping, that made Delia Hopkins' rumble her mind by trying to decode her past.
The lady that she thought died in a car crush.As a father and having an alcoholic wife, he forces himself to be excluded to her past just trying to change the life of his daughter.
A minha opinião em vídeo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgA0T...
It is heavily a story about motherhood and expectations, with a realistic angle on alcholism thrown in for good measure.Two things that really bothered me: There was one character I grew attached to who seemed to serve no real purpose except to give the protagonist a reason to bring out her search and rescue dog, because how cool is that, that an abducted child grows up to do search and rescue?The other element I didn't care for, and never do no matter how many times I encounter it, is the protagonist who has a willingly spare lover on the hook for when the other relationship doesn't work out, like an emergency ration.
4.5*The whole finding out you were kidnapped as a child premise interests me every time.
It really doesn't even have to be a great plot for me to love a book like that, but this book did have a pretty great plot so was extra awesome in my opinion.
I love how once again Picoult weaves in multiple tough themes into a story.
So much in one would make a person believe it is an overload but for some reason Picoult is one those authors who can do this without the overload.My quick and simple overall: entertaining with a few very devastating scenarios to read.
This was the first Jodi Picoult novel I ever read and it got me hooked on her books. I started this book and write away I was completely engrossed in the story and the characters. I thought this was an amazing, thought-provoking story, which stayed with me long after I finished reading. As soon as I finished it I went out and brought another novel, My Sister's Keeper, by Picoult. I would definitely recommend Vanishing Acts, although it's not one of her best novels, it is still a pretty good read. Four stars!
It would be a 5 but not sure about the ending.
I figured there must be a reason, so I held on, reading the exhaustive descriptions of the prison and it’s inmates, the silly poem and the rap song circulating about D-block, even the Breaking Bad chapter where Walter White-like chemist, Andrew, becomes a meth cooker.
Regrettably, I didn’t connect the relevance to the story.I really loved the story of three friends, Eric, Fritz and Delia.
There were lots of elements in the book that makes ones think, but what sticks in my head is the thread about memory; how much do we really retain and how much is actually subjective.Vanishing Acts is not one of favorites by Picoult, but by no means would I hesitate to read more by her.
The novel is told from multiple perspectives: Delia, who finds out her father kidnapped her as a four-year-old; Eric, Delia’s alcoholic fiancé who happens to be a lawyer and defends her father; Andrew, Delia’s father who spends a majority of the novel in jail; Fitz, Eric and Delia’s best friend; and Elise, Delia’s mother who has not seen her daughter in twenty-eight years.
In true Picoult fashion, the sequence of events plays itself out: Andrew gets arrested and sent to Arizona to await trial, Delia, Eric, and their daughter relocate there temporarily, Fitz tags along and creates friction, Delia meets her mother, whom she thought was dead, and a trial begins, with Eric as the defense attorney.
this was my 2nd jodi picoult.
i hadn't been so thoroughly engrossed in a book in quite some time.
its a quick and enjoyable read that will make you laugh, cry, and keep you on the edge of your seat the whole time.
i love the way picoult questions morally complicated situations.
i have heard complaints about the way jodi picoult does not make clear who is right and who is wrong and that she doesn't answer all the questions posed by her works, but that is what i love about her.
By that description, I should probably give it a 2, but I'll stick with my pattern of "rounding up" with my ratings.One problem I had with it was that I didn't particularly like any of the characters.
As for Delia herself, I didn't really like her either.
Another major problem I had with the book was how all the characters were constantly having these tangential thoughts in the middle of any given situation; it broke up the story and made it just draaaaag along.
ETA: On second thought, I went back and changed my rating to 2 stars.
This category will include such titles as The Lovely Bones by Alice Seybold, The Little Friend by Donna Tartt, How to Be Lost by Amanda Eyre Ward, The Bright Forever by Lee Martin, and this book, Vanishing Acts by Jodi Picoult.Having recently read so many books with plots that revolve around a missing child I began to consider what about this topic inspires so much powerful fiction and compels so many of us to read these books.
I could have read this book straight if I had nothing else to do, I liked it that much after I was done reading it I went online and found out a lot of people hated it...
1.people did not like that she switched characters and fonts,I say why not!??
like they have never read a book that has done that???2.
people did not like that she had unnessasary characters and sub-plots, don't all large novels have those???
It's been quite a while since I read anything by this author. I love her writing style (in this case, chapters were told in the voice of Delia, Andrew, Fitz and Eric). I have never read any of her books which haven't been thought-provoking, emotional, and more often than not based on something which can and usually does happen somewhere in the world. I'd forgotten how emotionally draining I feel after reading her works. This is a story which will stick with readers for a long time and have you asking yourself, "Would I have done the same thing?".
The repressed memories are a very interesting subject that I look forward to learning more about, but also in a way, it is terrifying to think you could learn something that you may not want to know.To this day, my mother is a drug addict and alcoholic and even though I have forgiven her, I have no desire to forge a relationship with her.
It's a strange feeling to know that you should have feelings for someone as special as your mother who should have walked to the edges of the earth for you, and yet feel the same as if you were passing a stranger on the street of a busy street.The ending of this book really threw me for a loop.
More than three stars but not close to four. Decent book, with a dilemma as most of Jodi’s stories. But I could not cope with the heroine being in love with two men at the same time! And I felt that she hadn’t enough love for her father.
1,5*
Was OK a lot going on in this one.
Mas sempre teve fascínio pela história passada do pai, cuja esposa e mãe de Delia morreu há 30 anos.Até que um dia a polícia que lhe bate à porta e apresenta um mandado de detenção para o pai, que é fugitivo à justiça.
A partir daqui vamos descobrindo o segredo que Andrew esconde há tanto tempo, que será a parte central do livro.Delia vai descobrindo que a história da sua vida é tudo uma farsa,e terá de se confrontar com a realidade pura e dura: a sua mãe está viva.[...]Opinião completa: marcadordelivros.blogspot.com/2018/02...
They said the writing was absolutely atrocious.In my reading of Vanishing Acts, I paid way more attention to the construction of the novel than I ordinarily do on a first time through a book (in which, unless the story is absolutely awful, I focus on the plot and the characters).
There are thousands of fonts; how hard can it be?All three had two things in common, despite their differing plots: a focus on family and a twist at the very end.
I read this book a year ago, and while I found it having moments of profound ideas, the storyline was...
Meh. Don't get me wrong, it was interesting, and I haven't read a book like it before, but it was just kind of too much.
Granted, you aren't supposed to enjoy the character being in jail, but I didn't like reading about it.
It was an okay book, but since the different parts of it were so different, I can't think of someone who every part would appeal to.
