https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25614492-salt-to-the-sea
Such a thrilling read! The main characters were all so interesting and I loved how much mystery and tension there was in each of their stories. I also loved the rich world building! I'm not usually big on history, but I loved the way the history was presented here. Between the setting and the writing, everything was SO vivid, which just amped up the intensity.Overall, this was a fantastic historical standalone. I definitely recommend it, especially if you like emotionally gripping reads with lots of tension and fascinating characters!
Now she returns to World War II and, once again, I don't get it.As with her first novel, I feel a little uncomfortable being negative about these kinds of books.
However, a few history lessons is truly all I took from this book.The story is told in very short chapters of 2-3 pages (sometimes just a few sentences) and the perspective jumps between four different people - Joana, Florian, Emilia and Alfred.
I'm sorry, but it was so boring.Maybe I could put it down to recently reading a fast-paced, exciting (and horrifying) book set during the Second World War - Front Lines - but, to be honest, I just think the author's war stories are not for me.
(4.5) This book was beautiful. It's gonna take a minute for all my thoughts to set in. Video review to come!
This swift-footed, kind-hearted historical is intensely satisfying in just about all the ways a novel can be satisfying.
As a history major, I don't mind a research-filled brick of a book, but I'd think carefully about who I recommended it to.
Salt to the Sea is not that book: Sepetys chooses her word battles carefully for an incredibly fast read.
It's quite fast-paced, but THRILLER feels wrong: it's not quite got that frantic electricity.
This novel is the natural successor to Code Name Verity: a character-driven, accessible, YA historical with all the feels you could desire and enough research to bring down an elephant.
Going into it I was very apprehensive about reading it.
The writing in the book was so phenomenal.
I felt like every single word in this novel had a purpose.
Towards the end of the book I felt like they were people I knew and I desperately wished I could change their fate.
I also LOVED the side characters just as much as the main.
I also LOVED the side characters just as much as the main.
This is a book that I know will stick with me and I am going to be thinking about these characters forever.
Every time I finish reading an historical novel, especially the WWII ones, I find the need to congratulate myself.
It’s no secret that those novels are usually heavy in emotions and historical elements.Yet Ruta Sepetys made reading this YA historical novel so easy.
And that’s because it’s so…Accessible.
You don’t even need to be knowledgeable about World War II.
The only thing you need to do is pay close attention to what the characters are saying.Which isn’t hard at all.
Ruta Sepetys’ writing is simple enough that we understand absolutely everything she is saying, but not so simple that it feels as if it were written by a kindergartener.
Such a beautiful yet tragic story. Ruta Sepetys has such a way with words. Video review to come
This book was inspired by the biggest maritime tragedy of all-time.
It actually was the sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff.For more information on this event, please Ruta Sepetys hit a home run with this one.
It was clear that Ruta Sepetys had done extensive research on the subject matter and time period, leaving meticulous details throughout the book indicating her extensive knowledge.
This book will leave a footprint on my heart forever, for that, I'm sure.Highly, Highly Recommended!5/5Popsugar Challenge: Prompt #25 A book that takes place by the seaBuddy Read
Ruta's work is a gift.
I could not stop reading Salt to the sea, I kept telling myself just one more chapter, just one more (we all know how well that works).
(hide spoiler)]I really cared for Joana and Florian, Ruta Sepetys has a special talent for powerful romances.
"Joana still had her mother.
I loved it.(view spoiler)[THANK YOU RUTA FOR SAVING FLORIAN, BUT EMILIA- I was so sure that Emilia would reunite with her baby.
If you're interested in buying Salt to the Sea, just click on the image below to go through my link.
This book was beautiful, devastatingly so.Ms. Sepetys does a wonderful job of shedding light on the sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff, a maritime disaster that claimed more than 9,000 lives and remains an overlooked part of history.
Admittedly, I had never heard of this disaster until reading this book.
Above all else, this story highlights the fight to survive.Most noticeable in this cast of characters are: Joana, the Lithuanian nurse; Emilia, a young Polish girl; Florian, Emilia's mysterious rescuer; and Alfred, a young German soldier.
This book leveled me. I was unprepared. Beautiful.
That was sad but there was some happiness too. But some of the things put some horrific images in your head =( Mel 🖤
Wow, what a beautiful, breath taking, eye opening story.
⸨ Your daughter, your sister. She is salt to the sea, ⸩   This was my first book by Ruta Sepetys, and it won't be last. I have already bought "Between Shades of Gray", and "Out of the Easy" is on it's way. :DI am obsessed with this remarkable author. She is so inspiring, and down to earth. Most importantly, she is a powerful storyteller. I loved the way this book is written. There are 4 POVs and each chapter is about 2-4 pages long. There are no unnecessary details, which i highly appreciate.
I loved the way this book is written.
There are no unnecessary details, which i highly appreciate.
I didn't want to be the 'smart girl'.
I freaking love this girl!
He had me right from his first chapter.
I loved the way he was introduced.
I didn't even want him anywhere near Alfred.
I have much love for Florian.
If it were any other book i might have put some effort into knowing him a little better, but not here!
He is a sailor who adheres to Hitler's propaganda and thinks very highly of himself.
I really really liked Between Shades of Grey because of its ending, and I was so excited to hear about Ruta's second book following non-German (mostly) WWII.
I've mentioned before that i'm not a fan of books that are told by a handful of characters.
Every character came from a different country and each had their own set of goals to accomplish, which made each perspective very compelling and I didn't like one voice over any of the others.
I adored every character and enjoyed how the book stayed true to the time-- not everyone got a happy ending.
once again, ruta sepetys has created a story that so easily allows you to slip into the shoes of the main characters.
and after reading both ruta sepetys novels back to back, ive come to the conclusion that she doesnt really like to end her stories.
and im not sure if that is to allow the reader to fill in the gaps about how they imagine the characters spent their lives after the war, but it makes me really sad.
regardless, this is a must read for anyone looking for a WWII novel that focuses on an a lesser known, but just as important, event that impacted the lives of many.
Sepetys has brought history to life in amongst these pages filled with pain, grief and heartbreak of the worst possible kind - that caused by other human beings.This split narration follows the lives of four young individuals and their alternate opinions and stances in the war.
All evacuees are making for port, to board one of the ships they hope will bring them to comparative safety.This is such a heart-rending account of such a bleak period of human history and Sepetys spares her readers none of the agony and chaos of the time.
Her stories are dramatic, cruel and most of all real, but I can never fully commit myself to the book or its characters.Side note with minor spoilers:One thing that really bugged me was the portrayal of the Germans.
Yes Hitler, the Nazis and many more people sucked and will forever and always continue to do so.We had lots of "mean" Germans in the novel, but did the only German main character necessarily have to be a sociopathic, Hitler-loving ass without a single trace of character development?
Two different books, two different stories but one family.
“On September 1, 1939, Germany invaded Poland from the west.
Until, until life forces them to see otherwise, but their hearts still look for that goodness in the eyes of others.The winter of 1945 was a long and treacherous winter for these souls who had left their homes and were on a long and arduous journey, on foot, ultimately to board the Wilhelm Gustloff.
The shoes tell the story.”As they come together and journey together, you begin to learn their secrets, their stories.
Their journey leads them to the ship, the Wilhelm Gustloff, which will ultimately become the largest maritime disaster in history.
4.5 starsow, my feelingsssssssss
You surely have my great admiration and support.“Every nation has hidden history, countless stories preserved only by those who experienced them.
Stories of war are often read and discussed worldwide by readers whose nations stood on opposite sides during battle.
History divided us, but through reading we can be united in story, study, and remembrance.
Books join us together as a global reading community, but more important, a global human community striving to learn from the past.What determines how we remember history and which elements are preserved and penetrate the collective consciousness?
If historical novels stir your interest, pursue the facts, history, memoirs, and personal testimonies available.
It also made me think of the refugees trying to get across the Mediterranean Sea in recent times, and the incredible losses and hardships they have suffered.Sepetys' method of telling the story from four points of view was beautifully done and effective in showing different motivations and mind sets at this impossible time.
It tells a story that is not as public as it should be, and for the sake of remembering and honoring those who fell victim to the misery and cruelty of this war, we need to learn as much as we can so that nothing like this will happen again.As I write this, I am particularly saddened by the recent slew of tragedies and acts of violence that have occurred all over the globe.
Well that was enlightening, emotional, and a page-turning read!SALT TO THE SEA by RUTA SEPETYS is a Historical Fiction novel that is engaging, heart-wrenching, and a powerful read with an extremely interesting plot that grabbed my attention from the very first chapter.
This was definitely another page-turner and extremely hard to put down.The last few books that I have read lately have either had an embossed dustjacket or cover and this is no exception as this one has a partially embossed dustjacket as well as an embossed Stork on the actual cover.
I just can't let go.Whenever I'm going through a major book hangover, I like to try and switch up the genre I read.
But in order to get there, they first had to survive a dangerous journey on land through enemy check points, under fire from all sides, in danger of becoming victims of the brutal winter, in the middle of one of the largest wars in history.A nurse.A blind girl.A shoemaker.A mysterious soldier.A pregnant teen.A delusional sociopath.A wandering boy.A devastating war.A bitter winer.Thousands of miles.One ill-fated sea voyage.The chapters are all very short like I mentioned but every single one of them packs a punch and ends strong -- which is really a testament to the power of this author's writing.
We bobbed upand back, up and back, waves lapping and curling, the sound of crying filtering through the dark."" Intense and Glorified writing and character.Exceptional narration.My favorite character- Shoemaker"“I wept because i had no shoes, until i met a man who had no feet.” "That is class of writing when reader thinks whether the story is fiction or reality, Just like story line of movie- THE WORDS." Historical reader, Highly recommended one !Contented and Superfluous Fiction about WWII time span, It reveals all the circumstances and possessions made by Stalin and Hitler and the different community's person got affected in their own and worthwhile manner.Few lines I loved -*"I had the knight’s pack.The knight had the baby.The knight would want his pack.I wanted my baby"*"There’s a saying, ‘Death hath a thousand doors to let out life; I shall findone"*"I knew the legends of the birds.
I don't read books in a day but THIS ONE GOT READ IN ONE DAY. IN HOUUUURRRRS. If you have any reservations about the multiple perspectives, trust me when I say that you're reading a book in the hands of a very capable author and you won't feel disoriented AT ALL.
January 22: i need it. i already know its going to be perfect.edit February 12: i was right.
I really enjoyed Ruta Sepetys' new book SALT TO THE SEA.
I liked the format of short chapters with alternating protagonists, and I liked that each character had a secret to reveal, but most of all, I enjoyed learning about an event of historic significance.The catastrophic torpedo strike on the Wilhelm Gustloff on January 30, 1945 was news to me as well as the OMGOSH horrific loss of an estimated 9,000 people, most of them children, more than the Titanic and Lusitania combined.
3.75⭐When the survivors are gone, we must not let the truth disappear with them. Please give them a voice.Author's endnote.The ending left me with tears in my eyes and chills on my back. I felt a genuine cold chill down my spine while reading the very last few chapters.This was a heart-breaking WWII novel about a lesser-known maritime tragedy, the sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff, a German ship filled mostly with civilians trying to escape the advancing Russian (or Red) Army. The novel follows fo
I felt a genuine cold chill down my spine while reading the very last few chapters.This was a heart-breaking WWII novel about a lesser-known maritime tragedy, the sinking of the Wilhelm Gustloff, a German ship filled mostly with civilians trying to escape the advancing Russian (or Red) Army.
The novel follows four teenagers from different homelands through their intertwined journeys toward the Wilhelm Gustloff, an overcrowded ship that seems to be their only hope of escaping the Red Army: Joana, a Lithuanian nurse; Florian, a Prussian with secrets of his own and a letter of passage from a high-ranking Nazi officer; Emilia, a girl with a painful past and Alfred, an incredibly misguided German who lives by the every word of the Fuehrer.
