https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/167010.Fables_Volume_2

The second volume is about a revolution on the Fable farm, started by the non-human looking fairy-tale characters.
We get to see The Three Little Pigs, characters from The Jungle Book, and Goldilocks - who is a villain and was raised by Papa and Mama Bear and has a weird relationship with Baby Bear.Snow White is sent to the farm to find out what is going on when the administrator goes missing.
She takes Rose Red with her.I liked this one, maybe even better than volume one.
Rose Red is infuriating and such a brat.
Everyone on the internet makes fun of Rob for his laughable anatomy, ripoff characters, and endless iterations of 'base attack' plots, but I've heard that Rob is a perfectly nice guy and gets work done on time.
Maybe Willingham's success is just a case of an upbeat attitude and meeting a schedule?I'm reminded of straight-A students who didn't seem to have an original thought in their heads but nevertheless did all their work and turned it in on time.
The art is more varied with the switch in penciller, but Buckingham seems to be dulling down his style to better match with the series, which is a shame.Maybe Willingham will get his feet under him as things go along.
This is Fables take on Animal Farm.
Snow and Rose head up to the upstate farm to have some bonding time.
When they get there they encounter a secret meeting taking place.
Things are a little off and Weyland, the care taker, is no where to be seen.
All the animals from stories are up here on the farm.
The animals from the Jungle Book, nursery rhymes.Rose figures out what is happening.
It's a nicely told tale and the giants are in this one as well.
Goldilocks is living at the farm and she is one of the ring leaders.I enjoyed the art and the story.
This story mostly focused on a play on the Animal Farm idea (hence the title) by Orwell and although I haven't actually read Animal Farm myself I definitely got the references and felt it was an exciting adaptation.The artwork of this series isn't my favourite at times but it works well enough to communicate the story and get the drama and intensity across and that's certainly important in this issue where there are some pretty dramatic moments!On the whole definitely a great read which didn't take me long and which I really enjoyed so I will soon be continuing on with the series.
Written by Bill Willingham and artwork by Mark Buckingham.It arguably was intended to link itself with “Animal Farm” (“Some animals are more equal than others”)ARTWORK PRESENTATION: B to B plus; CHARACTERS/DIALOGUE: B plus to A minus; STORY/PLOTTING: B to B plus; FABLE FOCUSES: B plus; WHEN READ: 2010 (reviewed early October 2012 after a reread); OVERALL GRADE: B plus.(view spoiler)[ SPOILERS: the showdown between Shere Khan and Snow White was fun a la cat and mouse and then rat a tat tat with the special gun on a helmet.Nice take on Goldilocks sleeping with the youngest of the bears and having turned into a revolutionary terrorist hot wench.
I like the way Jack treated her in the Jack Fables series.
Heh.Nice idea that Fables are almost impossible to kill until humans (called Mundies in this series) forget about them.
In this issue of Fables, Snow White and Rose Red take a trip upstate to the Animal Farm to check on the non-human-passing Fables.
Upon arriving, they find that Weyland Smith has gone missing, and two of the pigs have taken over the farm in leading an uprising revolution to take back the Homelands.This volume was a lot more dramatic than the first, and I really enjoyed seeing the Farm and the less human Fables!
As usual, the artwork is beautiful and the plot was fully fleshed out within the confines of this one issue, which is a method I love in a graphic novel/comic book series.
The Farm is the place they keep all the fairy tale characters that cannot pass as humans (like the three pigs, all the animals from Jungle Book and so on).
let's just say I wouldn't mind if Bigby went all Big-Bad-Wolf on her.However, most annoying was the revelation why Snow White and Rose Red are such enemies.
(view spoiler)[Sleeping with her sister's husband just because she's jealous about her fame and then still not being happy and continuing with this "punishment" of Snow White at every turn.
Snow White takes her sister Rose Red up to the farm to do her twice yearly visit to find that it is in upheaval.
Snow White's life is in great danger, and Rose Red is forced to choose between familial loyalty and self-interest.
Will some of the Farm's fables stay on Snow's side, or will they all heed the call of revolution?This novel tackles heavy subjects, but there is still some good humor, most of it on the wry side.
While Snow White is a flawed character (as well she should be), I really like and admire her.
I have an intense, borderline creepy love for this series *heavy breathing* …Animal Farm is one solid story arc in the Fables series (issues 6-11) and if you've read Animal Farm by George Orwell, it will come as no surprise to know that this particular arc is about a revolt at the Farm: a property in upstate New York where non-human fables live, and ones who can't afford a glamour to disguise themselves as human beings are sent.
Contrary to the light, fluffy fairytales we are read as children, Bill Willingham's take on our favourite fables are dark, gritty and fascinating.
It says "For Mature Readers" on the back cover but I definitely want to emphasize that.
This may be about the fable characters we loved as children (and adults, who am I kidding), but some of them are downright violent and cruel creatures in this.
There were executions performed by Jack Ketch (which I thought was cool in a really disturbing way), who was an executioner back in the 1600s famous for botching his work.
So picture that in coloured illustrations, as he beheads animals.As caught off guard as I was by the unexpected gore, I loved this volume.
I especially liked that characters from The Jungle Book were featured.
I'm definitely on Snow's side.
Animal Farm…  In comic form!  Brief Introduction: After reading the first volume in Bill Willingham’s popular “Fables” series, I was a bit interested in reading the second volume of this series, hoping to find out more about the Adversary who took the Fables’ land from them. But in “Fables: Animal Farm,” we are actually introduced to a revolution on the Animal Farm where Fable characters who are not human or cannot maintain a human form reside. “Fables: Animal Farm” is a great follow up to the
Bill Willingham’s writing!: If you have seen the title of this volume entitled “Fables: Animal Farm,” then you will definitely know that this story is pretty much similar to George Orwell’s classic novel, “Animal Farm.” To be honest, I never would have thought that Bill Willingham would include a novel that is a satire on the Russian Revolution into his “Fables” series which mainly includes fairy tale and folktale characters, but I will admit that I was really impressed with the direction he took this story!
The real problem for me, coming in when plenty has already been written, is trying to catch up when there's so much else to read...The premise of the Fables series is simple and from what I understand each novel is something of a stand alone, based on the overall premise and with some connection to previous stories.
These Fables have been driven from their story worlds and now live in a special area in real life called Fabletown.This particular volume takes its cues from the story by Orwell: Animal Farm.
Interestingly enough for me to want to read more of the graphic novels...There are adult ideas behind these books.
This time we head to the Farm where the unhuman type Fables reside.
Oh shit, who's ready for some Animal Farm type shit?
This volume really focuses on Snow white and Red Rose.
They go to the farm to check up on all the other fables.
Who will make it out of this one?Good: I really enjoyed the snow white and red rose stuff.
It was really well done and kind of get enough past to understand why they are where they are.
Bad: Bigby whole section felt kind of odd and out of place.
I feel pretty much the same way about this installment as I did about Volume 1 of this series.
I really like the concept (characters from fables "outside of their stories" and in modern times) but the story itself is just not very interesting and the execution not very compelling.
For example, I liked the concept of the character of Goldilocks as a radical revolutionary (and married to the grown up Baby Bear) but after her introduction her character never became compelling.
Anyway, I already own Volume 3 of the series and so will read that at some point.
its beautifulthere is nothing much to discuss in the review reallythere is only tons of spectacular story telling to enjoybut it looks like our fables are godlythey get their energy from people who believe in them just like gods in every pantheon of gods
I suppose the first one was a bit slow because they had to introduce the story world and many different characters.This volume set the action going.
Snow White takes her sister rose red into fable town, the country outskirts where all the "non-human fables" live, i.e. The three little pigs, the three bears etc.
This means Snow White is stuck in the middle of it and things start to get hairy.
Here we are introduced to many different characters and I must say it was a treat to read, because it reminded me of all the characters I read about as a child.
It’s enjoyable to see well known characters playing against type like the militant Goldilocks as she leads a communist-esque revolution as the female Che Guevara and Snow fighting Shere Khan from Kipling’s Jungle Book is exceedingly good (hehe!).
Snow and Rose are fairly interesting characters but shouldn’t really have books centred around them as they’re just not compelling enough.
Animal Farm isn’t a terrible book and hasn’t put me off the series but it’s not terribly compelling either.
The allusion to Lord of the Flies seemed contrived- perhaps on purpose, to make the characters seem shallow, but it read to me more like Willingham just wanted that image in his book.
(hide spoiler)]I was ready to give this whole thing the benefit of the doubt - maybe the ethical gray area gets addressed in future volumes, maybe the characters that seemed so flat here will be rounder soon, maybe this dull fairy-tale world will be injected with some whimsy next time around.
I had to push myself through this, to be honest.
I want to continue with the story/world, but I could have done without this volume, I think.
I said in the last one that my tolerance for unlikable, horrible characters is at an all-time low, and that's basically all this volume was.
I get the allusions to Animal Farm and Lord of the Flies, and all that, and I even get why this was an aspect of the Fables that needed to be explored, but I just felt very anxious reading it, and wanted to be done.
I think it’s cool reading about them in the original fairytales but then to see them differently in another’s work makes it even more fun and engaging.
I was cracking up when I saw Rabbit holding an AK-47.
The image of rabbits and chickens holding guns bigger than they are for the revolution was pretty entertaining.
The only thing that doesn’t make sense to me is why the three little pigs are still pigs but the big bad wolf is a human?
There are some things in these comics that make you scratch your head but overall it’s really fun.
In a play on words the second Fable community of the Farm descends into the idiocy of communist revolution in order to cause the invasion of their original home.
But Snow White is not without her skills and recruits allies who help to rout the communist idiots.The tale itself seems simple, but Willingham's ability to use fable's characters is what makes this a unique vision.
It is also interesting that certain Fables are nearly immortal due to their popularity such as Snow White.If you liked reading fables as a child or just enjoy a good story this one is for you.
I liked the first book (a compilation of the first four comics) a lot.
I thought that the fables that were introduced showed a lot of depth to their characters and an appealing edginess.
The story was engaging, and even if the mystery wasn't much in the end, it did keep me curious throughout.
None of the new characters showed any depth to their characters, they were all either who they were in their fables or a typical reactionary revolutionary.
It was either too literally Animal Farm or too literally a satire of something, but what it wasn't was fun.
Wherein we are introduced to the "Other" Fable community, learn the real reason for the falling out between Snow White & Rose Red, witness a violent upheaval, discover that Goldilocks is a Socialist furry-fancier, and I am made desperately homesick for Upstate New York! With the key elements of the series' mythology established in the first volume, this volume is a marked improvement. The pacing is brisk, the dialogue contains little in the way of hamfist exposition, and a number of new, interesting characters are introduced. This series is growing on me!
This was better than the first with better hints of things to come. Even though I'm sure it will be good after all these hints come to light, I don't know if I can hold out that long. Pigs and farm animals are just not the coolest of action heroes, although Shere Khan and Baghera were pretty awesome.
And they lived happily ever after. Or not!!!! Goodness I liked this volume wayy better than the previous.Dying to know what other crazy shenanigans the creatures of fabletown will come up with next. This volume had a very nice blend.
I really liked this second volume of Fables alot.I'm still waiting for Snow White and Bigby to hook up.Suprised that didn't happen.That Pinocchio character sure cracks me up.
3.75 stars.
This one was still cool but it wasn't my favorite storyline ever. I'm still pumped about reading this series though.
We got an introduction to the New York location of Fabletown last time and this second arc moves directly into the realm of the Farm and the characters that inhabit it, the art really creates a lot of the world as not all of them are introduced and we only see them visually but wow it’s pretty splendid.
The story which mirrors Animal Farm is also pretty amazing with the narrative that ties into the past and also moves the world forward, fantastic.Story: As I said above the story is inspired by Animal Farm and what more fun way to do that than to be on the literal Farm for Fabletown, it’s great.
