https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22297138-the-novice
** Just finished re reading for the second time and its even BETTER a second time.
I love this world, time to jump into book two **ALREADY I KNOW THIS WILL BE ONE OF MY BEST BOOKS OF 2015!
I picked this book up yesterday and have just finished it!
I literally can not get my thoughts together right now due to the amazingness of this book!
But my plan is to film a book review ( i know..
i only film book reviews for books i love) and then i will have it up for the release of the book!
Definitely one of the most underwhelming fantasies I've read this year.I was really excited for this after knowing it was originally a WattPad story.
I mean, that speaks volumes, I think.Despite this having obviously Pokemon/Digimon/Monster Rancher elements (except with "demons") in a typical fantasy setting (world filled with humans, orcs, elves, and dwarves), it failed to instill a feeling of awe within me.Why?Because of the writing, that's why.That cover is goddamn misleading.
I mean, yeah, pokemon-like demons are cool and all, but if the main character doesn't have a personality, then what else does he have going for?The rest were so uninteresting as well, having characteristics that were stereotypical of their fantasy-races.
Disclaimer: Thank you NetGalley and Hodder Children’s Books for providing me with a copy.- Initial quick review posted on Goodreads when I finished the book (it earned me a few likes so I won’t delete it :P):My thoughts about the book:My thoughts about the author:- And now the full review:OMG!!THIS BOOK WAS BEYOND AMAZING!!!I can already see this book on a lot of favourite books of 2015 lists! It will definitely be on mine, you rest assure!When I picked up this book I already had my expectation
So, when I finally entered this amazing world of summoners, demons, orcs, elves, dwarves, magic and pure, raw fantasy, I fell in love.
And his relationship with his demon, Ignatius, was adorable.The whole universe that Taran Matharu created was really well developed and felt real almost as if I belonged there.
You enter this new world and you get a vibe of other books and stories you’ve read but it manages to stand out on his own.
I loved Ignatius, perhaps my favourite character in the book despite the fact that he doesn’t talk.
There are shady dealings afoot; political plots and conspiracies abound, and Fletcher knows he can make a difference for the better, if only he can overcome the challenges of the trials and best his opponents to win a position of command.A quick look at Taran Matharu’s author page tells us that his passion for reading began at a very young age, and it probably wouldn’t surprise me if it turned out he was a fan of Harry Potter as a child.
*** 3.85 ***A buddy read with the Fantasy Buddy Reads Group:):):) I thoroughly enjoyed myself! This book is written in the more classic Fantasy style and although it is targeted to Young Adults, it is in my opinion, perfect for all who love the Fantasy genre.  "..."A warrior's greatest enemy can also be his greatest teacher.” ..." Now, if you are anything like me, a good cover can totally make you buy a book without having any idea what the book is about. I saw the AWESOME cover, deduced it was
When eventually I got to reading it, I was happy to find that it was worth it:)Fletcher is a 15 years old living in a mountainous village, in a middle-ages like world.
I know some were bothered by the similarities with other books, but that never bothers me really - if it did, we would not have more then some very, very old books to read, because just as in all the arts, dance and music, storytelling is a craft that builds on its history and traditions, all trying to relate to humanity in the most effective way the author can find.
I was about to dnf this one because I find the "magic school-hero is not a noble born-magic/enchantment-fucking evil bastards were noble spoiled brats" a bit cliche.But then, the story did a wonderful turn and I was starting to get entertained! I was like:"What's happening?What's going on?This is soo cool!More!More!More!Yeees!Take that bastard!"And then the author dropped the bomb at the ending.And again, I went:WHAT'S FUCKING WRONG WITH THESE FANTASY BOOKS NOWADAYS!?WHY ARE YOU ALL GIVING US CLIFFHANGERS?!So yeah.
Helping his guardian sell his wears at the fair, Fletcher comes face to face with a war veteran with a journal from a battlemage.
But before the warrior leaves, he gives Fletcher the journal.While reading the book, Fletcher accidentally summons a demon of his very own named Ignatius.
This book is set for publication May 5, 2015.Written by: Taran MarharuSeries: The Summoner TrilogySequence in Series: 1Age Range: 12 - 18 yearsHardcover: 368 pagesPublisher: Feiwel & Friends Publication Date: May 5, 2015Rating: 5 StarsISBN-10: 125006712XISBN-13: 978-1250067128Genre: Fantasy | Action | AdventureFind this book on: Amazon | Barnes & NobleFor Reviews and More Check out: http://tometender.blogspot.com
What I did not likeThe biggest issue I had with this book was that there was not enough of any of these above listed elements I actually liked because the story spent too much time of other things that I did not feel added to the plot.The very beginning of this book throws the reader into a dark and ominous world filled with dangers and cruelty and I loved it so much.
I just felt like these elements could have been discussed and implemented in a better way without becoming the main focus of the entire book.
When Fletcher manages to summon a rare demon and gets in some trouble, he finds himself landing at the Vocans Adept Academy where he will learn spellcrafting and be trained as a battlemage.A little LotR, some GoT and a dash of HP, this particular escape has just about everything I love in a fantasy book.
The ending left us on a bit of a cliffy, so I'm really looking forward to the next book and there isn't any really romance in this one, but the action and intrigue more then makes up for it that it's not an element I missed.In all, The Novice turned out to be a great story that combines fantasy, paranormal and magic that was intense, captivating and wildly entertaining.
(Source: I received a digital copy of this book for free on a read-to-review basis. Thanks to Hachette Children's Group and NetGalley.) “If it wasn’t for the summoners, we would be in serious trouble.” This book felt like a cross between Harry Potter and how to train your dragon, with some politics and racism, and backstabbing thrown in too.Fletcher was a boy who had never had much, and who had always worked hard. He stood up for people, even when he was being bullied himself, and went out of hi
He stood up for people, even when he was being bullied himself, and went out of his way to be a good person.
The storyline in this followed Fletcher as he summoned his first demon, and then travelled to a place where he could continue his studies.
We got bullying, racism, action, and demon fights, not to mention sword fights too.I have to say that bullying and racism were a big thing in this book, and the way Fletcher and the dwarves were treated was just shocking and awful.
The themes in this book are old school with a definitive line between the good guys and the bad guys. The world itself is also tried and tested but the story is well written and fun. I read a lot of darker books so reading a traditional story mixes it up and feels fresh. The demon types and their personalities are particularly entertaining. I'd like one of my own.
“...summon demons from another world...” I love demons, I NEED THIS!BR with the Ftastic Sara💗
Disclaimer: I got this e-arc from NetGalley in exchange for an honest review This was one heck of a book! Where to start? The first time I heard about this I knew I wanted to read it. I mean, a book that started off on WattPad about people who can summon demons and train in a specialised academy sounds like Harry Potter meats Pokemon! Who doesn't want to read that?!In this world, summoners are getting rarer and more are needed to fight in the war against the Orcs. So any summoner, noble or not,
I mean, a book that started off on WattPad about people who can summon demons and train in a specialised academy sounds like Harry Potter meats Pokemon!
Who doesn't want to read that?!In this world, summoners are getting rarer and more are needed to fight in the war against the Orcs.
So any summoner, noble or not, are trained at the Adept Military Academy - where they learn all sorts of magic to get them prepared for battle.I loved Fletcher's character and the way he was written.
It was a really solid start in the Summoner trilogy and can't wait to see what will happen in the future!
When he is given a book that contains a scroll, the bully wants it.
When he is ganged up on by the bully and his stooges, Fletcher has to run away from the town.
Fletcher and his demon make their way to a larger town where he tries to find work.
However, that town has its share of bullies too.
Outside of school, Fletcher gets caught up in a plot by nobles who want to start a war with the elves and corner the market on firearms.There was lots of adventure in this story.
It’s not just amazing, it’s even a good compendium of what you will find in this book… and if you look carefully, you can meet the most adorable demon I’ve ever seen: Ignatius!Okay, let's get down to business.The Novice follows the adventures of Fletcher, a 15-year-old orphan who lives in the North of Hominum, quite close to the elven border.
His life in Pelt suddenly changes when he discovers by chance that he has the ability to summon demons and finds himself bound to a cute little salamander-like imp.(Ok, Ignatius certainly looks nothing like Toothless.
Translation widget on the blog!!!O carte care se construiește cu fiecare propoziție citită, fluid, conturând o lume fantastică și plină de pericole.Recenzia mea completă o găsiți aici: https://www.delicateseliterare.ro/nov...
I was hoping for a whole new world world filled with new creatures and races, but it felt too similar to other books I have read.
I liked it, but I had trouble getting into it and promptly stopped reading to pick up another book in the meantime.
It doesn't have that stickiness quality that other fantasy books bring.
They have guns, but are also living in a renaissance like world?
Was it a modern setting or was it something earlier?
Hopefully things will be answered in the next book if I'm still interested in it, I might still pick it up.RATING 2/5QUOTES"Keep everyone in their proper place, that's the way to do it.
Taran thanks for writing this and making me enjoy a book I did not think I would!
After Fletcher finds he can summon demons from another world its time leave the only place he knows, and head to the one place that is can help him control and train his new powers.
Adept Military Academy, a place there I he makes new alliances and fights through crazy training.
So much happens in the book that I can’t get it all out on paper, It will take you into a world you will not want to come out of.

This book was so good! I haven’t read a fantasy book in a while and was so glad to get back into the genre and this book gave me exactly what I needed. It had hearty characters, thrilling action and a world full of such unique magic and danger. I don’t think I disliked a single thing about this book, everything was just right!!
The Novice is the first in a trilogy about Fletcher, his demon Ignatius, and the war against the Orcs.This book digs pretty much into the core of the fantasy genre, which is common with young authors.
However if Taran does not put the 2nd and 3rd books on wattpad, which I think it would be silly of him to do, then 6 million people are going to be wanting to read a book and they only way, will be to buy it.The main character is Fletcher, a 15 year old orphan and apprentice blacksmith.
4 Stars - loved this one!The story started out slow with quite a bit of world building but then the pace picks up towards the last third of the book, so much so that the ending even felt a bit rushed.
But most importantly, the story took me to a new world that I didn’t want to leave just yet.
Each chapter I finished always had me reading just one more chapter until I finally reached the last chapter.So in short, if you are a fantasy lover, give this one a try and you might just end up loving it.
I always felt like wanting to read the next chapter as soon as I got to the end of the previous one.
I was reading the novel with a friend who thinks it's a bit slow at times, so maybe I'm biased, idk.About the characters..
I really like what I think are the main characters..
unfortunately the rest of the cast could be developed a little more.All in all, as the first book in the series, it's very good and accomplishes its purpose of introducing us to Fletcher's (the main protagonist) world, to give us some basics of how demons "work" and to prepare the ground for the next novel.
Another amazing trilogy started, I can't wait to see how they tie together.
When reading this I get the feeling of a YA Trudi Canavan or Robin Hobb, both amazing fantasy trilogy writers and this one is up there with them for me.
Until he meets a strange man and reads a strange book, then his life is very quickly turned upside down.
Fast paced and a bit moreish I devoured this book and simply cannot wait for the next one to come along.
I really loved the boarding school storyline but also that it wasn't the lone focus of the book which gave the author the chance to explore the world beyond the confines of it, something that I always find problematic with other books with the same setting.Fletcher is an amazing main character.
The whole concept felt very original to me, especially because it included races like the elves, dwarfs and orc, something that isn't really common in the YA High Fantasy genre.
But I think everyone that loves the YA High Fantasy genre and wants something different that is still so much fun to read should definitely check this one out.
However the fourth member of the group, Seraph was just pushed into the group way too late and you couldn't feel their friendship was whole as you don’t really get to know Seraph.Othello is a dwarf and Sylva is an elf, the world in which the book is set is at war with Orcs and so different races are joining together to defeat their enemy.
Fletcher is special because of how he became a summoner and his demon but the other two main characters, Othello and Sylva are also special in a way.
Seamana foarte mult cu "Eragon" doar ca aici nu moare nimeni apropiat personajului principal. Pentru ca este o carte cu si despre demoni, na asteptam sa semene cumva cu trilogia "Barthimeus", dar in afara de folosirea pentagramelor nu exista nicio asmanare, clasificarea demonilor si a puterilor lor fiind identica cu cea a creaturilor din HOMM.In concluzie, o carte usoara pentru a te relaxa in weekend.
It is through luck and this book that Fletcher summons a ferret like demon, which takes him on the run to learn more about his new powers and help in the war against the orcs.I love this world.
Fletcher and another boy Seraph are really the only friends the dwarf and elf are friends with even though really their hopes are to unite their people with the humans.
Unless you are of noble birth your life is hard and even in the school learning about Summoning you are seen as a lesser being due to being a commoner.
I borrowed an ARC from my friend and couldn't put it down! It’s like a mix of Harry Potter, LOTR and Pokemon, whilst still having its own unique world and a plot that keeps you reading until the very last page. Can't wait to own a copy for myself..
When blacksmith apprentice Fletcher discovers that he has the ability to summon demons from another world, he travels to Adept Military Academy.
Fletcher finds himself caught in the middle of powerful forces, with only his demon Ignatius for help.
Fletcher ends up being pretty brilliant in this book.
This is a pretty standard mage school type book with tension between the students of different races (humans, elves, and dwarves) as well as between the upper and lower classes, with some of the nobles being predictably snooty and mean.
I also enjoyed reading the guide about them at the end of the book.
