https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80113.True_Spirituality
It took a crisis of faith for Schaeffer to sit down and pen this book.
Schaeffer patiently takes the reader through the various aspects of what it means to be "truly spiritual" in the everyday moments of our lives.
And whenever I think I have spirituality all figured out, I need to return to the Cross.Schaeffer is also careful to deal with many distortions of true spirituality presented by the liberal movements, and Eastern religions (what would best be classified as "New Age" today).
The Lord used this book when I needed it so much.
Schaeffer's way of touching the vulnerable parts of your doubts and discouragements is so profound.
The way he explains his own time of doubt and restoration is so encouraging.
My first copy fell apart, and I had to tape it together.
I have read it at least three times (maybe more), since it first landed in my hands.
I love scanning the shelves of used book stores for copies.
I highly recommend this book for anyone who is struggling in their walk with the Lord, or just needing a check-up on their Christian faith.
Great book. Classic Schaeffer. Besides the small prob of his view of sanctification (almost to the likening of the imputation in justification), the book is amazing. Especially, the insights in the last four chapters are worth the whole thing. Theology and the knowledge of God should never be treated as a game.
104, "For myself, through the twenty years or so since I began to struggle with this in my own life, I rather picture my conscience as a big black dog with enormous paws which leaps upon me, threatening to cover me with mud and devour me.
Be still!' I am to believe God and be quiet, in my practice and experience." I used to fear big black dogs, until I owned a huge Golden one, because now I know who's really in charge.For anyone who seriously wants to walk through the Christian faith, understanding what his heart longs to believe, this is a champion.
A book I would highly recommend especially to anyone who is questioning their Christian faith and wondering if it was all a mistake or if there's something about God that they have either forgotten or never known.The book is not an easy reading devotional.
It will make you think long and hard about yourself, your Christian faith and the grounds on which you have based it to be true.
In the end you will come away as I did, grateful for Jesus atonement on your behalf as well as eager to live a genuine faith in the world and especially in your church.
Schaeffer here summarizes many of his teachings and views of Christian faith.I should probably read the book again; the audiobook version either doesn't do it justice, or it needs to be read in a more meditative way.
It became more difficult for me to follow some of Schaeffer's thought processes towards the end, but the first section of the book was clear, simple, profound, and life-changing.
In this way, believing in the priesthood of all true believers, believing in this supernaturally restored relationship among those who are brothers in Christ, believing in the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in each individual Christian - organization and Christian leadership do not stand in antithesis to true spirituality.With such a mentality in the church we can also say something about the attitude of loyalty.
It is not that I would separate these principles of revealed Christianity from the personal God, but rather that it is because they are from him that they have any authority.Third in importance is loyalty to organizations, not because they have been called church organizations and have had historical continuity for a certain number of years, centuries, or millennia, but only as far as they are biblically faithful.
I saw & heard him speak at Tenth Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia when Boice was Pastor. He and his writings were an inspiration in my young adult Christian life.
These are some of my favorite quotes:We do not come to true spirituality or the true Christian life merely by keeping a list, but neither do we come to it merely by rejecting the list and then shrugging our shoulders and living a looser life.desire becomes sin when it fails to include love of God or men.The inward area is the first place of loss of true Christian life, of true spirituality, and the outward sinful act is the result.
There is to be a reality of love and communication in the Christian-to-Christian relationship, individually and corporately, which is completely and truly personal.
Honestly, the first couple chapters of this book were tough to get through.
The meat of the book is about how Christ's work on the cross affects not only our salvation, but also our day-to-day Christian living (the sanctification process, if you will).
Some were things that had already impacted me in the past through some other mode, and were good reminders (for example, the progressive, up-and-down nature of sanctification in the Christian life; the danger of expecting your spouse to meet needs that only God can fill).
Schaeffer also shows how significant our thoughts are and how it is in our minds that God has specifically set people apart from the rest of His creation.
He points out the fact that every act we do and every word we say originates in our minds and the fact that when God created heaven and earth creation began first in the mind of God. This is the significant way that humans are created in the image of God and what specifically sets humans apart from animals in the rest of God’s creation – in that all of our actions originate in our minds, and we live firstly in our minds.
Most importantly, he is focused on Christ and the finished work of Christ.He is really unique in how he stresses the reality of everything.
Namely, the finished work of Christ on our behalf which changes us drastically.I could write more, but I just want to say that this is now my favorite book by him.
His logic is on fire in those book as well.
But in this one, you really get a gorgeous mixture of logic and Christ-centerdness, all while uniquely stressing that this all is so real.I will plan on reading every couple years or so.
From reading this book, I was reminded of how important it was, as a Christian, to saturate our mind with the ideas and thoughts that are of God. I had read each chapter before studying and it made a difference in my life.
The book also emphasized that true spirituality as a Christian springs from understanding and working out what Christ has done.
The first and the only point of departure for us Christians is always the substitution work of Christ.
All in all, the book talks about what it really means to live a life of true spirituality.
How do I yield myself to God without erasing my volition or becoming a victim when sin comes?This book explains how all of these questions work out practically.
Schaeffer argues that sanctification is 1.) the finished work of Jesus 2.) by the agency of the Holy Spirit 3.) bearing fruit through believers as they actively yield themselves to the Lord.
I believe I am right in saying that what Schaeffer puts forth is neither monergism nor synergism in sanctification; but rather, a bridge between the two.I am very grateful for this book.This review is being written during my third time through True Spirituality.
Excellent explanation of what the Christian spiritual life is all about and how we can live in an "abnormal world", as Schaeffer calls this place since the "fall".
We live in "two equal lines of reality presented to us in the universe.
"….This is the biblical view of truth: two equal lines of reality - one seen and one unseen.
But in Christ we are presented with an opportunity, a calling, to be a creature by choice, to be creatures glorified.
Through an active passivity, we are creatures, not of necessity but by choice, here in this present space-time, historic world.
(view spoiler)[So it was all fine, all going well but then Boom, Chapter 7, He goes and calls God the Father "daddy." No grown man who wears knee socks should ever call anyone 'daddy.' That removes a star, plain and simple.He wrote the book as the result of some lectures he gave, and the lecture style is apparent in the prose and possibly not in a good way.Also, the subtitle should probably omit the words "How to".
On the other hand, good theology is inherently practical, so there is that.
This should seem obvious to any reader of Romans 6, but often we focus so strongly on the cross that we ignore the implications of the resurrection for the here and now.I found the second half of the book less strong, addressing freedom from the effects of bondage to sin (the first half addressed freedom from bondage to sin itself).
I don't know if this is because this work is dated or because Schaeffer was addressing issues I found less than compelling.
Nevertheless, I would strongly recommend the first half of this book, and keep an open mind toward the rest.
A fairly good but intolerably repetitive reminder that Christians must live ever cognizant of the reality of Christ's death and resurrection, which should have a tangible and visible effect in our lives, serving as a witness to the world. Schaeffer's style is just too redundant, however. He endlessly turns back to repeat what has already been said, often with identical phrasing. The book could've been written at one third its length.
Early on in my reading of theology and philosphy, I for some reason had a hard time reading through Schaeffer, but within the last year or two, I have really been tracking and loving what he has to say about the Gospel and the life of a christian. This book specifically helped open up new categories that I had never dreamed of. I am thankful for the life and ministry of Francis Schaeffer and look forward to reading more works of his down the road.
I read most of this book 5+ years ago, though I don't remember ever finishing it. Simple but profound premise, faith isn't a once and done thing exercised at conversion and then put aside for some serious sanctifying works, instead faith is the foundation for daily moment by moment obedience. Personally, I think John Piper's Future Grace gives a much fuller description of "how" faith accomplishes sanctification. But this book definitely is in the right direction.
Francis Schaeffer walks you through what the Bible has to say about who God is, who man is, what man's condition is, what the remedy is and then the book becomes less theological and very practical. The second half of the book focuses on how people can find help and healing in their personal lives and relationships. It draws upon the truths discussed in the first half of the book to explain, so don't be tempted to skip the first half of the book.
This was another strong Schaeffer book, though I found it less provocative than some of his other writing, probably owing more to the style of this one. This book reads more like a collection of sermons than a fully written book where the style is less helpful in writing because of repetition and doubling back repeatedly on the same thoughts. But the "worst" of Francis is still a great read -- challenging, thoughtful, and full of meaty truth.
For the believer who may be able to answer the question, "What must I do?" with some certainty but experience apprehension when faced with the question, "What must I do today?"Schaeffer offers a thoughtful detailing of how to live the Christian life holistically, with an emphasis on the moment-by-moment relating to an infinitely personal God. Highly recommended for any Christian interested in becoming more thoughtful about how they may live today.
OkayThe good part was relating basic theology to psychology, to social relationships, and to church life. He didn't really explain _progress_ in the Christian life. I got the impression that the believer is either consciously reckoning himself dead to sin or not; there's not really room for substantial progress in holiness in that kind of binary approach.
I really liked Schaeffer's intellectual approach and found his ideas very well developed. i think i'll definitely look back in the future and see his book as one of the catalysts of my interest in the Christian faith. definitely enjoyed the book and would recommend it to anyone interested in Christianity.
I liked this book. I do not like the subtitle. The "How to" makes it sounds like a formulaic operation. Originally titled "Sanctification I-V" Francis Schaeffer lays out what dependence upon God looks like and the fruit we ought to see from that. I love Schaeffer's linear thinking. Crisp, clear, and logical.
This was a simple reminder of the essentials for living the Christian life: faith in the finished work of Jesus Christ. Through daily (and moment by moment) repentance and faith, as well as dependence upon all three members of the Godhead (Father, Son, and Holy Spirit), the believer can walk in the power of the supernatural. Great read!
Excerpt from Chip Ingram's thoughts: "Less philosophical than Francis Schaeffer’s others, this book explains how the spiritual life works. It brought me back to the core of what it means to walk with God. The Word of God empowered by the Spirit of God in the community of God’s people transforms you little by little as you get to know him."
i read this book around 9 times. the arabic version named: الالتقاء بالله هذا الكتاب تم ترجمته سنة 2001على كل مسيحي يريد ان يعرف ما هي الحياة المسيحية و كيف تعاش ان يقراء هذا الكتاب. انه كنز، و لا اعرف كتاب في عمق و جمال هذا الكتاب. قد اثر في تفكيري بشدة و في نظرتي لله و نطرتي لنفسي. من اهم الكلمات له : ان ادرك لحظة بلحظة اني انا المخلوق امام الخالق.
