https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/187811.Shadowland
This doesn’t mean that I liked every single book she wrote, but I loved the fact that I could just chose the genre I wanted to read with her, know what I’m saying?
I didn’t think she and I would get along that much, because sometimes she can be quite rude, and I don’t especially like rude people, but her remarks don’t just come out of nowhere, for no reason; she knows how to defend herself.There’s a bunch of secondary characters to meet and love.
Why this book doesn’t contain your usual teen-who-sees-ghosts story is because Meg Cabot takes it to a whole new level.
But even on the ninth floor of Bellevue-which is where they lock up the crazy people in New York-I probably wouldn't be safe from the ghosts. They'd find me. They always do.  Alright so, it appears that everyone wanted to like my pre-review of fangirlish relations to when I was younger...so I don't see a large point in writing a long-winded review when it seems everyone has mostly stopped by and saw all they wanted to see. But, along with those youngish nostalgic ramblings, I did want to say w
But, along with those youngish nostalgic ramblings, I did want to say why I loved-and still love-this series.It's not often a person can look back at a book they read in middle school and say they still love it and it's almost just as good as they remember.
But I guess this just goes to show you that if you are a good author, you can make anything work.I was OBSESSED with that fifth book, Haunted, and wanted nothing more than for Jesse and Suze's story to continue.
Sometimes it feels like coming home when you pick up a book again...and that's all you can really ask for.
So I’ve started looking online to discover how the series end.
I just finished the first book, Shadowland, and I had to know what happened to the protagonist, Suze, so I cheated.Suze is a “mediator.” Basically, she is a teen Ghost Whisperer.
I confess I have watched—and even enjoyed—the TV series, so I was a bit intrigued by the idea of a teenage girl who both sees ghosts and helps them “cross” to the other side.The premise is interesting, and the book is a fairly entertaining read.
How could I not cheat to find out how the ghost and the teenage girl progress romantically?Clearly, the cure to my problem is no more young adult serials.
Re-read 4/24/17: This series is still perfect after all this time. It is mega cheesy and I probably wouldn't recommend it to someone to pick up for the first time nowadays, but as a nostalgic re-read, this was PERFECTION. Can't wait to carry on and re-read the rest of the series. Re-read 11/23/15: 5 stars for nostalgia and a rip-roarin' good time. I love this series so damn much. Yes, it's cheesy and a little dated, but it is still absolute perfection. Love love LOVE.
My first thought was that this would be some overdramatic teen novel that would quickly get buried under layers of drama and romance, but actually it was really complex, funny, imaginative and powerful as far as YA bestsellers go. I loved the main character, how she wasn't just some cookie-cutter girl and had her own unconventional style and personality. The Californian setting definitely added an atmosphere of summer sunshine and bright nostalgia to the book, and it was full of unexpected surprises. I really loved Shadowland and I'd definitely recommend it to any reader.
Muy bueno, pero muy corto.
I am happy to say that I enjoyed this!The book begins with Suze mentioning the differences between New York and California.
Andy makes her mother very happy and Suze is okay with that.Her new family take her home.
Throughout this book Suze trying to help people ends up being a bit reckless.
I loved how close Suze was with her mother and that she didn't mind her step father.
While Suze isn't close to any of her brothers in the beginning of the book she does develop a good relationship with Doc. It was so sweet reading about!
THIS WAS SO MUCH FUN! I'm just obsessed with Meg Cabot and I think this will end up being another one of my favourite series! Thanks to Chelsea for introducing me to this series and for buddy reading this with me! <3
Why on Earth haven't I read this sooner?
SO.MUCH.FUN.I love Meg Cabot and her Princess Diaries are basically the synonym for my elementary school period.
However, I didn't particularly like her Heather Wells series, so I was kind of wary when I first started reading this book.
BUT HOLY MACARONI.
I loved it.
I loved Suze & Jesse, Father D, her step-brothers, the story, the very Meg Cabot writing, the humor, the action...
It was extremely fun reading about Suze's adventures and just her awesome kick-ass personality.
Jesse's a cutie pie.
A hot cutie pite, though.
Go get it Susannah.
And there was one website that offered the solution to all our problems...############################STORYThe books follow Suze, an extroverted and mischievous teenager about to start her new life in beautiful, sunny California, along with her mum, step dad and three step brothers.
Witty, fast-paced, humorous, filled with action, mysteries, ghosts and romance (of a sort), extreme cheesiness that makes me giggle, easy to follow writing style and descriptions that would make you feel like you're on a beach in California.
Nevertheless......Jesse's so cute!############################If you're looking for some good ghost books, check if these will be any good for you:
I have been dyingggg to read this (pardon my pun LOL) ever since I finished Cabot’s Heather Wells series. She once again manages to write such a fun, well-rounded series!Here are some of my thoughts:• The protagonist, Suze, is confident and not afraid to speak her mind and talk back to bullies. I love that. It is so funny to see her interact with other people. Usually I would think the “new kid in school” would feel shy, but on the very first day, she stood her ground and was just herself. So pr
I am glad that she has someone to talk to about being a mediator.•	I appreciate that this book is primarily about Suze seeing her new home and school, and learning to accept her new life here.
(view spoiler)[Yes, peaceful ending, but not the last book as storyline is still continuing.
(hide spoiler)]Love triangle?
(view spoiler)[There is somewhat of a love triangle, but it is very low-key.
This book I about Suze meeting new characters, and she has interest in one guy she met at school which is very light-hearted and quite cute.
(hide spoiler)]Favorite scenes?
I decided I wanted to reread this book series because it was one of my all-time favorites when I was in high school. I'm not sure if a new reader would enjoy it now, but I still loved it. It's pretty much classic teen chick lit, and a fun, breezy read. If you like spunky main characters that fight ghosts, you might like this.
Firstly, let me just say, I doubt you’ll ever read a bad review of a Meg Cabot book from me.
In fact, I have a whole (rather pink) bookshelf dedicated to all of her books that I own, which, I’ll admit now, is pretty much most of them.
If I’m looking for a great, fun, story, likeable heroines (and a tension filled romance with a ridiculously attractive guy), Meg Cabot never lets me down.
I’ll buy her newest book as soon as it comes out, without waiting for the paperback and devour it the same day.The Mediator series is one of my favourites.
Just as good as the other bazillion times I've read this. I do find Suze to be super hard on others, but here's hoping she'll learn to ease that judgment in the rest of the books. She's such a normal teenage girl depicting her crushes on any boy that it reminds me of when I was a teen haha
เปนนิยายเลมบางๆทีอานไดเรือยๆ มีมุกตลกทีทำใหเรายิมมุมปากเลกนอย แตไมถึงกับขำกากออกมา เนือเรืองผูกปมไวไมซับซอน ใหอารมณคลายๆกับนังดูซีรียฝรังทีจบในตอน ตัวละครสดใสมีสีสัน พระเอกอยางเจสซีมีความลับทียังไมไดลับการเปิดเผยทีทำใหอยากรูจนตองหยิบเลมตอๆไปขึนมาอานอีก การหาทางออกของตัวละครดูงายๆไปนิด แตนีกเปน Chick Lit เลมบางๆกจะไปคาดหวังตรงสวนนีมากไมได ...เปนหนังสือทีอานคลายเครียดไดเพลินๆดี ... ซือมาตอนทีลดราคาเหลือเลมละ 40 บาท ...(view spoiler)[ซูซานนาหเพิงยายบาน และบานใหมของเธอกลับมีผีสิง! ใครจะรูวาผีทีสิงอย
เป็นนิยายเล่มบางๆที่อ่านได้เรื่อยๆ มีมุกตลกที่ทำให้เรายิ้มมุมปากเล็กน้อย แต่ไม่ถึงกับขำก๊ากออกมา เนื้อเรื่องผูกปมไว้ไม่ซับซ้อน ให้อารมณ์คล้ายๆกับนั่งดูซีรีย์ฝรั่งที่จบในตอน ตัวละครสดใสมีสีสัน พระเอกอย่างเจสซี่มีความลับที่ยังไม่ได้ลับการเปิดเผยที่ทำให้อยากรู้จนต้องหยิบเล่มต่อๆไปขึ้นมาอ่านอีก การหาทางออกของตัวละครดูง่ายๆไปนิด แต่นี่ก็เป็น Chick Lit เล่มบางๆก็จะไปคาดหวังตรงส่วนนี้มากไม่ได้ ...เป็นหนังสือที่อ่านคลายเครียดได้เพลินๆดี ... ซื้อมาตอนที่ลดราคาเหลือเล่มละ 40 บาท ...(view spoiler)[ซูซานน่าห์เพิ่งย้ายบ้าน และบ้านใหม่ของเธอกลับมีผีสิง! ใครจะรู้ว่าผีที่สิงอยู่ในบ้านของเธอจะกลายเด็กหนุ่มหน้าตาดี อย่างเจสซี่ ที่เธอไม่สามารถไล่ให้เขาไปไกลๆได้ ส่วนเรื่องที่โรงเรียน ... ซูซานน่าห์ต้องผจญกับผีเด็กสาวที่ฆ่าตัวตายเพราะน้อยใจแฟนหนุ่มของเธอ ผีตนนั้นตามอาฆาตและต้องการเอาชีวิตแฟนของเธอให้ไปอยู่ด้วย ดังนั้นซูซานน่าห์จึงต้องออกโรงปกป้องคนที่มีส่วนเกี่ยวข้อง เมื่อผีเริ่มแข็งข้อขึ้นกับเธอเรื่อยๆ ซูซานน่าห์จึงต้องงัดไม้ตาย 'ไล่ผี' ออกมาในที่สุดเพื่อกำจัดผีตนนั้นให้สิ้นซาก (hide spoiler)]
Why didn’t I pick this up earlier? I knew I should listened to my friends at Bookers. I loved it! Shadowland was a fun and entertaining read that had me laughing. The plot was fast paced and easy to read and the characters were an unforgettable bunch. Suze, I loved her. She is an amusing character, the kind of girl you want to be friends with. Jesse is of course swoon worthy and left me thinking give me more.This is a series that I could easily get addicted too.
I forgot how much I absolutely loved these books.
I mean  LOVE  these books.
Cabot has a way with her writing that makes her books extremely easy to read, without them being boring or childish and I think that's a feat in itself.
Everyone from Suze to Doc, Grumpy, and Sleepy, to Ceecee and Adam and of course, Jesse, really comes to life just in this first book and you can't help but love them all in their own way.
All I know is, I absolutely cannot wait to continue reading this series...
I resisted Meg Cabot for so long...but turns out she's pretty fun.
This first book in The Mediator series surprised me with its fast-paced story, humor, and entertaining characters.
I'm not sure if the author was trying to make a point or not, but it does seem weird that it kept popping up again and again, and pretty much out of the blue.
I googled to see if there were any discussions on this topic in relation to Meg Cabot's books, but couldn't find anything...
“How is it that I'd nearly been smothered to death, and yet I could sit there and notice things like my stepbrother's abdominalmuscles a few minutes later?”  I don't know what came over me but I decided to reread this one today. And the cuteness is still there.I have always been a fan of Meg Cabot's works. (I didn't read The Princess Diaries though.) This series is my favorite of hers. And 1-8000-WHERE- R- YOU. I wish the rumor about this series having another book is true. I'll surely be frea
“How is it that I'd nearly been smothered to death, and yet I could sit there and notice things like my stepbrother's abdominalmuscles a few minutes later?”
 I don't know what came over me but I decided to reread this one today. And the cuteness is still there.I have always been a fan of Meg Cabot's works. (I didn't read The Princess Diaries though.) This series is my favorite of hers. And 1-8000-WHERE- R- YOU. I wish the rumor about this series having another book is true. I'll surely be freaking out.
One of of my favourite books and series!
I probably would have missed out otherwise, because I ended up loving them.The series is light and humorous while dealing with some serious stuff (death, ghosts, murder, passage to the other side).
There's a feeling of history to it - of the days of Spanish influence.
This adds a completely different flavor than you get in most urban fantasies or paranormals that I've read.
This might as well be a different author, aside from the light, witty tone.It's been a couple of years since I read them, but it's one of those series that will just pop into my mind occasionally.
I imagine I'll read them again one day.
ahh.Just finished this book. No matter how many times I read it I never get tired of it.The californian setting, you almost feel as if youre at the beach yourself when youre reading.the plot,so easy yet so good.the characters, so relatable,and good.the lines.just ahhh.:D“I'm sorry, Heather, but everything was not just fine before I got here. You know how I know that? Because you're dead. Okay? You are dead. Dead people don't have lockers, or best friends, or boyfriends. You know why? Because they're dead.-Suze Simon” ― Meg Cabot, Shadowland
I am so happy to be revisiting the Mediator world because I had forgotten how much I adored this series!!! Suze is an amazing MC (shout out to all the secondary characters, especially Suze's brothers! They are a fabulous ensemble!)I listened to the audiobook whilst driving on my commute to work. I'm usually not one for audiobooks, but I thoroughly enjoyed this one (more than once I laughed out loud at the narration!!). Looking forward to book two!
That was highly enjoyable!! I absolutely loved everything about it!! Susannah is a badass and Jesse just sounds hot. I'm so conflicted though, I want them to fall in love, but also ...he's dead XD I need to see how this series plays out.
This is Meg Cabot at her best! Our heroine has moved to Southern California where her mother has married a nice normal man with three nice normal sons. Our heroine is far from normal, though. She talks to ghosts. Talking is fine but our heroine usually kicks their butts when they don’t listen.  Excellent story! 😊👻
To see review with spiffy gif click here.A few months ago I reread all of the Princess Diaries series in anticipation of the adult installment that was released back in June.
However, when you first read this book after the fifth one things can feel a little disjointed.Reread: It was enjoyable.
A lot of the time out of time heros come off as being a little stiff at best (at worst borderline offensive), but Jesse just works.But what I found to be the most interesting thing upon reread is how short books can work.
But I can deal with that since it’s the first book.Overall, a nice reread and fairly strong start to my favorite YA series.
I first read this series when I was between 14-16 years old I believe and I really loved it so when I found out a new novel was coming in February 2016 with a grow-up Suze, I knew I had to reread the series.I really loved going into this with a fresh pair of eyes and the knowledge I had the whole series to my disposal on my Kindle and wouldn't have to wait for the next one to show up on the library shelf (this was before the days of reserving books online, it was a 'you see it, you take it' kind of thing cause you didn't know when you'd see it again).
She's a mediator, a person who can see and talk to ghosts and help them leave earth for wherever they're supposed to go.
First, there's the hottie of a ghost who lives in her bedroom.
Secondly, there's Father Dominic, the principal of her new school who also happens to be a mediator.
That's all good and nice, but before she can enjoy any of her newfound perks, Suze has to figure out a way to convince this furious ex-cheerleader ghost to leave this plane...
I don't know what happens in the rest of the series, but at least in the first book there's no sex, although there is some violence.
Still as awesome as I remembered!
This was so much fun and I can't believe I didn't read these years ago when I did my Meg Cabot glom. **Read for Ripped Bodice Summer Bingo, YA Paranormal**
