https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/968868.The_Book_of_the_New_Sun
Aramini’s analysis sheds much light on the key underlying themes of the story, namely the death and resurrection of the Urth via the coming of the New Sun, the ambiguous messianic nature of the protagonist Severian, the healing power of the Claw of the Conciliator, and Severian’s duty to undergo testing by alien powers to determine if humanity is indeed worthy of this rebirth.There are so many themes and ideas in Wolfe’s epic that it has spawned an informal school of analysis, including books such as Michael Andre-Druissi’s Lexicon Urthus, Robert Borki’s Solar Labyrinth: Exploring Gene Wolfe’s “Book of the New Sun” and Peter Wright’s Attending Daedalus: Gene Wolfe, Artifice and the Reader.
I have now read this book twice in the past year, and am looking forward to regular rereads every December.I had heard lots of fantastic things about Gene Wolfe, and this series in particular, so I figured this was the best place to start.
A couple months later, I was still thinking about TBotNS, so I revised my rating to 4 stars.Then some random impulse possessed me (I, who give little time to rereads, and had already done one this year) to do a reread in December, a year removed from my first reading.
It was another human hand, and its grasp (for it had seized my own the moment I touched it) coincided so perfectly with the recovery of Terminus Est that it seemed the hand's owner was returning my property to me, like the tall mistress of the Pelerines.
Or was Piaton actually thrust upon you in some way?’ Already, I think, I had begun to realize that my life would depend on finding out as much as I could about this strange being.The head that spoke laughed.
I can see why the NYT called it "a major work of twentieth-century American literature" and the Washington Post called Gene Wolfe "the finest writer the science fiction world has yet produced." The story is set so far in the future that the Sun is dying.
The narrative is so convincing because he shows you Severian's [the protagonist] world and rarely explains it.
Evolved beings who've created a reality that is outside of time and not subject to the cycles of destruction engendered by the expansion and contraction of our universe--think Big Bang to Big Crunch and back again...and again.
Reading this book is the closest I've come to replicating the sensation of dreaming.
This is so far removed from what people think of as fantasy or science fiction that it is almost impossible to describe to someone who is yet to read it.
Some of the most finely crafted writing there is.
The Book of the Long Sun and The Book of the Short Sun are wonderfully written tales and The Urth of the New Sun is darkly crafted dream of a book but this is unparalleled.
Even if the label of "fantasy" or "science fiction" turns you off do not hesitate to enrich yourself by reading this.
We are interrupted by Robin-Hood style bandits who turn out to be far worse than the corrupt king they battle; a troupe of actors whose leader may or may not be the Devil himself; ugly, lamprey-faced aliens that could actually be angels; carnivorous monsters who speak with the voices of the people they devour.
We begin to see that for a world so far gone in a moral sense, there is a kind of brilliant irony in making a former torturer--the worst of the worst--become the eventual Redeemer of a planet on the brink of death.
I read this at the recommendation of a friend, otherwise I probably would not have finished it.
It's a very odd book.
The premise is interesting enough, and the writing is actually pretty good as well, if from a bit of an odd perspective.
However, somewhere between those two it falls apart.
Individual scenes are good, but have little to do with the scene before them or after them.
This is all, I suppose, somewhat realistic, but it does not make for a good story.The end ties things together somewhat, but not nearly well enough to justify a disjointed 900 page book.
It's sloppily constructed, intentionally vague, and peopled with ridiculous characters.
There is distinction between wit and mere cleverness, and this one clearly belongs in the latter category.
I'm not sure exactly what happens (and upon perusing the other reviews I find I am not alone in that), but I also don't care what happened.
Though it wears a cloak of science fiction it is mere fantasy, complete with all the idiotic plot devices which make fantasy unbearable - extended dream sequences, magic swords, mysterious people who all know more than the narrator but refuse to let him in on their secrets, prophecies and demons and angels.
Gosh , Am I the only one to see the emperor naked ?!?! The book makes me queasy and not only mentally but physically, it goes against the grain .One of the few if not the only book I will not finish . I have looked at the 2nd part and it seems to go the same way so I will not open it .
Que viagem espetacular!TODA A SAGA DO NOVO SOL:The Shadow of the Torturer (New Sun 01)The Claw and the Conciliator (New Sun 02)The Sword and the Lictor (New Sun 03)The Citatel of the Autarch (New Sun 04)The Book of the New Sun Ombibus (Vol. 1 a 4) | SFBC, 1998, 950 páginas | #fantasia #ficçãocientífica | Nota 4 em 5 | Lido de 12.09.16 à 28.09.16 | NITROLEITURASSINOPSERecentemente eleita como uma das melhores sagas de fantasia de todos os tempos, o Livro do Novo Sol de Gene Wolfe é um épico extraordinário, situado em milhões de anos no futuro, em uma Terra que se transformou em um mundo misterioso e fantástico, um tempo quem que a nossa cultura atual não é nem mesmo uma memória.Severian, o protagonista da saga, é um torturador profissional, exilado de sua guilda depois de se apaixonar por uma de suas vítimas.
Infused with the catholic beliefs Wolfe holds, yes, but as Pullman - Wolfe's ideologically opposite, yet similar counterpart (though I believe Pullman merely aspires what Wolfe successfully achieves) - once said: "Every kind of work has a moral voice, whether we want it or not." (view spoiler)[Has this book converted me from staunch atheist to committed christian, as Severian is slowly converted by the in-universe BOTNS and his travel experiences?
Yes. The philosophical discussions in the book are actually engaging, in that genuine way that Tolstoy could sometimes pull off in his work.It's been a long time since a world could pull me in like this, but Wolfe has done it.
I actually have a slightly different edition (hardcover, from the Science Fiction Book Club), but this is the only omnibus of all four volumes I could find on here. I ordered this as one of my six free books or whatever when I joined, because the description sounded neat and it was good value for money; I stumbled upon one of the finest writers, in any genre, North America has produced. Still mysterious, beautiful, profound and terrifying in turn, this series is very much a must-read for you. Yes, you.
I read this tetralogy. re-read, re-read and re-reading again. never read anything like it and probably will never read again. like a drop of quicksilver in the folds of your brain. you know you read something important. you just don't know what.
Like many readers, my second instinct after hearing about a seminal work of fiction is to get the gist of what it is (the first being to jot down its title/author).
Because BotNS, like all strong myths, has no real contemporary agenda.
This saddles the unsuspecting reader with the burden of the archeologist piecing together a world lost (or, in this case, yet to dawn).Personally, I found it a frustrating and fascinating experience, like many of my most memorable reads.
This book seems to be all about those strange points of congruity.
It is a mildly interesting retelling of the experiences of an unusual and likable man, but it is also a meandering, directionless story appearing (along the way) to follow no plan and make no point.
I suppose this is the issue with fantasy epics: made up stories about made up situations.
But surely if you are making everything up, you can try to make a point, eh?
I just couldn't get into it, despite having the feeling that I was reading the ramblings of a madman genius who was trying to tell me something interesting.
This is compared to LotR in scope and epicness and also I guess in meandering plotlines.Lord of the Rings at least HAD a plot.This book has a fairly bland main character, no "MacGuffin" even 20 percent in, as far as I can tell, and women who parade around with their dresses ripped and boobs hanging out for no reason other than to provide something pretty for the main character to look at.Eowyn she ain't.This is a nope, nope, nope.
I was recommended this by a fellow fantasy fan and wow, I was not disappointed. Definitely one I will re-read and I'm sure enjoy somethign new everytime, a wonderful book.
A friend discovered Shadow of the Torturer while I was polishing off Thomas Covenant and he was raving but wouldn't tell me anything except "just read it." I picked up that book and was blown away by Wolfe's style within the first chapter, the first few pages no less.My experience with the series was sans-hype.
That said, years later I could not stop thinking about The Book of the New Sun and Severian.
Have a good time.P.S. You do not have to like, or even read, Urth of the New Sun if you read and liked the original series of 4 books.
I've read "The Book of the New Sun" cover-to-cover four times, and each time it becomes richer, deeper, and more enjoyable.
Neil Gaiman wrote an entire article on why you should read Gene Wolfe, who the New York Times called "Science Fiction's Difficult Genius" and who Ursula K.
LeGuin called "Our Melville." Wolfe is a writer's writer.
If you are already skeptical of this list of events, that's great - you're off to a good start at successfully reading Wolfe.
My high school English teacher once told me that James Joyce took a decade to write Ulysses, and that he expected his readers to spend no less time on it. The Book of the New Sun probably won't take a decade of your life, but it repays close attention to details, an appreciation of well-crafted sentences, and at least one complete rereading. Most of all, it repays patience with the author, who knows what he is doing, even while the reader has absolutely no idea.
I just couldn't get through this book. I read 400 pages and just had enough. I know it is heralded as wonderful sciencfiction/fantasy and has won all kinds of awards, but for me it was just too rambling and difficult to follow in any enjoyable way.
The Book of the New Sun is one of the greatest works of literature ever written.
The world has descended to a quasi medieval setting, although it contains many elements more at home in the fifteenth through eighteenth centuries and the books structure is heavily influenced by the writing of that period.
There may not be anything truly supernatural in the book.The book is a remarkably easy read in many ways.
I can't say that I know or understand the book or what it means.Just as an aside, this book clearly influenced Simmons and the Hyperion novels.
It's clearly one of the best books ever written.
I finished this 4-volume set a couple weeks ago.Since that time, I've been thinking about it and reading about it and I even listened to a podcast that analyzed each chapter of book 1.The story takes place a million years in Earth's future.
The story is narrated by Severian himself and, although he claims to have a perfect memory, we see enough evidence to the contrary that we begin to distrust his version of the events he relates.Almost without exception, those who love "The Book of the New Sun" have read it multiple times.
It was just too long for a book that isn't really all that great.At the beginning I thought it was pretty good, if a bit dull, but slowly it just lost itself by trying to be some great epic, which it really wasn't.
It felt like it rambled on and on, and slowly the parts that interest me, got less interesting.Then there was the play and other integrated story scenes, which seemed like they were suppose to mean something to the story line but the effort it would have taking to decrypt it into something solid was impossible.
Reading Neil Gaiman's praise of the book on the cover certainly made my heart sink, but I cannot help but think this is the sort of story that drives science fiction and fantasy into a very niche market where only those that are willing to like it are the ones that actually do.
I cannot think of a single acquaintance that is not already immersed in these sorts of novels that would pick this up and read any more than I did.It seems like a common thing among science fiction and fantasy readers--almost an inside joke--that our stories need to be the sort of thing you research--diligently, page by page--in order to get through, and I wish it weren't so.
I didn't mainly because of the beautiful prose and the imagination of the author, and it really left me wondering at the finer points of the plot, though some of the "mysteries" were pretty obvious and others were obscure in such a way that didn't make me want to bust my brains trying to figure them out (like the whole Abaia/Erebus/"Cthulish" gods), I just took them at face value, because they didn't seem important to the overall story.I'll surely reread it at some point, since it might be better the second time.
Although The Book of the New Sun is composed of four volumes, it is in reality the continuation of a single story and I have chosen to evaluate it as such.
However, it readily gets bumped to 5 stars on the full-point scale because the story is so epic and original.
Science fiction being my favorite genre, I was surprised that I had not found this title before now.
Perhaps that is because The Book of the New Sun seems to erase the line between science fiction and fantasy, with the former characterization becoming more evident as the tale unfolds.
The ambitions of this book's concepts are by turns mystifying and stupefying.
It recalls that modernist chestnut: should art be difficult, after all?
For all its savvy manipulations of genre and remarkable turns of phrase, is it an efficient story?
BotNS is not difficult to read, but it is severely demanding.
It must be reread -- everything about it from its major themes to its dissolute plot demands rereading if not research.
Beyond that, it is a completely unnerving book, exposing us to every kind of doubt and crisis from sheer paranoia to dark nights of the soul.
Picaresque pseudo-allegorical post-apocalyptic Bildungsroman and a few other things besides. Vance if he took himself seriously; some of the markers of the SF of its time, but owes much (thankfully) to the "humanist fantasy" (the best of Leiber and Saberhagen) of decades earlier.
