https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/42337.The_Moffats
The Moffat family I think, is set during WWI and follows the day to day adventures of the children. This was probably a 3.5 for us but I think the book would be more interesting to a younger child. We really enjoyed Louis Slobodkin's illustrations.
I love reading children's books, especially the old-fashioned, heartwarming kind.
It is just what it appears to be--an everyday story about everday people.
The Moffat family, a widowed mother and her four children, live in the fictional town of Cranbury, Connecticut.
The story is told with innocence and enthusiasm from the perspective of the children, who don't really think much about being poor.
The illustrations are delightful and the stories will make you smile.
I don't know how I missed the Moffat books growing up, but I hope to have the chance to share them with my grandchildren!
Get ready to smile and sigh and shake your head in wonder as you meet 10 year old Janey and 5 1/2 year old Rufus Moffat, and the rest of the Moffat family -- Mrs. Moffat, Joey, 12, and Sylvie, 15 -- who live in the town of Cranbury, CT in a yellow house with kerosene lamps and a very unwanted For Sale sign.
Eleanor Estes (1906-1988), a notable children's writer who is remembered mostly for simple, humorous family stories that capture the logic and feelings of young children, has created THE MOFFATS, the first of several classic juvenile books set in fictional Cranbury, CT during the 1910s (the setting also for Newbery winner GINGER PYE and its sequel PINKY PYE.) First published in 1941, THE MOFFATS received a Lewis Carroll Shelf Award in 1961.
There is Mama, Sylvie, Joey, Janey, and Rufus.
The Moffats live in a yellow house on New Dollar Street.
At the time Mama is struggling to get money for the family.
So the yellow house is for sale!
The children continue to find adventures in their small town of Cranbury.
Janey loves to play in the yellow house with her dolly, Hilgerade.
Sylvie loves to sing, and she does it all the time.
At the end of the story the yellow house gets sold and a new adventure awaits the Moffats.The genre of this book is realistic fiction.
The Moffats, who live in the same town as the owners of Ginger Pye, are a close-knit family of four children and a hard-working seamstress mother, whose bust "Madame" occupies a central position in the family's little brown house.
Mother is the source of the family's security: her understated courage in the face of sickness, poverty, and the challenge of supporting four children sets the mood of the little brown house, providing her children a great sense of security despite the absence of their deceased father.Estes' engaging characters, living in the context of a sweetly old-fashioned small town, hold an undeniable appeal that has caused this story to endure for 70 years.
I enjoy Americana books for young children. They bring back feelings of a less hectic, more innocent time and are a great read to get away from it all.However, I didn't really care for this story. Read to about page 50 and it was just not keeping my interest. I really wanted to read this but it just isn't for me.
We listened to this on a recent family car trip, per recommendation by Sarah Mackenzie. It is lighthearted and fun, but still covers some of the challenges ofliving in a small town during the Great Depression. I’m sure my kids will want to listen to the remaining three books in the series and hear what happens to Sylvie, Joe, Jane, and Rufus.
The Moffats is a sweet and simple episodic novel and would be a great book to highlight how this type of plot is put together. I love the family in this book: the hardworking mom, the adventurous, hardworking and respectful children, the way of life, and the old fashioned (and wonderful!) ideals.
Sweet and old fashioned but not too exciting for us
My family listened to this on a car trip. I felt it was just ok. The description says it's laugh-out-loud funny, but I didn't find that to be true. Each chapter was kind of its own little story, so much so that it felt like a collection of short stories rather than a cohesive novel. My kids liked it, though, and it helped pass the time in the car.
This story about growing up helps you return to your childhood. It was enjoyable though I like The Penderwicks more.
Love these books, my mom read them aloud to me and my sister when we were little.
Perfect for fans of the Penderwicks, Beverly Cleary, and Mrs. Piggle Wiggle!***I remember my mom reading this book (or one in the Moffats series) aloud to me and my sister after the big ice storm we had in Rochester in the early nineties.
The Moffats - Mama, Sylvie, Joe, Jane, Rufus, and Catherine the Cat - live in a little yellow house on New Dollar Street.
Jane can envision it taking on the same cozy charm as the little yellow house.
The Moffats are a family of six (Mother and four children) living in a suburban Connecticut neighborhood in the 1930s.
Jane, the second to youngest, can hardly remember a time when they didn't live in the little yellow house.
Mother struggles to make ends meet but the children are content.
I enjoyed it as a child and read the entire series.
I liked it this time around.
The story is told from Jane's point-of-view and presents a child's eye view of the world.
It's not quite as charming as The Melendy Family series but in the same style.
My kids and I found this book delightful!
We picked it up after my daughter read the divvying-up-the-kittens section in her writing curriculum (Writing with Ease, Volume 3 by Susan Wise Bauer...we've found so many great books through this curriculum!), and they lost interest for a couple of weeks once we'd made it past the kitten part, but we finished it this morning, and they give it high marks.It's always interesting to me to see how much freedom children have in books written in earlier times.
I can't imagine sending my kids out in the New England winter with a sled and a five-dollar bill to bring back a big bag of coal, and not just because our boiler uses piped-in natural gas.I also found the section where the family were quarantined very interesting.
Recently widowed Mrs. Moffat and her children have moved across the street to a smaller house to save money.
Unfortunately for them the owner has put the house up for sale because times are tough for everyone.The book chronicles the year that Moffats live in the house before it is ultimately sold.
Although time passes, the individual chapters are episodic.the Moffats even in 1941 was historical fiction.
The time described in the book is the turn of the last century.
Thus while the plot entertains, it also gives children a glimpse of what life was like a hundred or so years ago.
I rather enjoyed this story of the Moffat family.
They are a warm and caring family.
I was a bit aghast and definitely concerned when Hughie and Rufus climbed aboard the train in the middle of school (while the teacher seems not to have noticed they were even missing...I just kept thinking how I would panic if two of my students vanished on the first day of school...that poor kindergarten teacher!).
This book is warm, funny, and expertly portrays the day to day events and thoughts that shape a young child's life.
I think it's very obvious why I would snort at the cute-sy cover.During kindergarten recess, one accidentally hitches a ride out of town on a boxcar. One winds up trapped in the breadbox outside the deli. One offers to escort a Salvation Army man to his destination - and accidentally bumps him from his horse-drawn wagon.That seems insufficiently nefarious to me, for a child Moffat, but I suppose there are undertones of deviousness I have yet to discover.
This book is as fresh and charming as the first time I read it as a child. Reading as an adult you appreciate the struggle that Mama, a widow, had making a living for four growing children with no social assistance. When Joe, the eldest boy, loses a five dollar bill on his way to buy a dollar and twenty cents worth of coal, you feel the grave enormity of the situation and the cold winter night looming. The book is set in the early 1900s but the children behave in a way that will be familiar in any time.
Jan. 3, 2017 to Jan. 7, 2017This was a wonderful book in my opinion. The book was a little funny but adventurous. I thought this was a page-turner and I liked reading about Jane, Sylvie, Rufus, and Joe. The Moffats are very funny and I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in it. When Rufus and his friend went on a train during school, they went far from Cranbury. It was hilarious when that were sent Bach to school. I rate this book: ☺☺☺☺☺
This book clearly represents children and a widow during the great depression. The 4 Moffat children and there widowed mother go on many adventures. This book is very cute but unlike the middle Moffat, may not be appropriate for children of all ages.
I thought this was incredibly boring but the kids and I listened to the full cast narration audiobook only on car trips and errand running and they loved it. My oldest wants to read more in the series and I’m just thankful it’s over.
loved it. its about a lovely family and their adventures while the dreadful "for sale " sign is put up. And of course, the nosy people have to move in to their old house. i am really looking forward to Estes's other books. :)
Sweet, old-fashioned story that is actually several stories in one. It was a huge hit with the 6-9 year-old set and they would give it five stars! The ensemble cast for the audiobook did a good job.
Another classic I've reread--holds up very well and still very relate-able. Estes was a great writer, wonderful at writing child characters!
A book I loved reading as a child & enjoyed hearing the stories again as I read it to my boy.
This particular book, the first (originally published in 1941) in a series of books on the four Moffat children, tracks the adventures of 5-year-old Rufus, 9-year-old Jane, 12-year-old Joey, and 14-year-old Sylvie, who live with their dress-making widow mother in the yellow house on New Dollar Street.
My two oldest girls, and especially my 4-year-old, enjoyed listening as I read aloud.
In fact, my 4-year-old asked me to start the book over again when we finished it, so we did.
This book reminded me a bit of the penderwicks, but with less continuity.
Like the penderwicks, there is four kids with a single parent after one died.
This time it's the mom who is going it alone, not the dad.
And it's set further back, maybe early 1940s, whereas the penderwicks are 1960s I think.
The ending did surprise me.
(view spoiler)[ I thought they would save their house but they had to move when it was sold.
It was such a different ending than expected!
I love how real to life it is through, and how much optimism the young kids had.
(hide spoiler)]
This is rather a long children's book but I really enjoyed it. The story is about a mother who earns her living as a dressmaker and her four children and the things they do. The youngest is Rufus who is just starting kindergarten. On the first day of school he is told to watch another boy in his class. The other boy runs away so off goes Rufus and they end up in a boxcar many miles from their home. This is just one episode in the children's lives which makes the reader wonder what will happen next.
I have found such audiobooks to be fully engaging, even when my mind would rather wander, and in some cases, like The Graveyard Book, the full cast audio added an additional dimension to the book that enriched and elevated it.
With that said, I do think the full cast audio would be much more engaging for young children and I would consider having them listen to it.
They also might enjoy the book more than I did, especially since each chapter is essentially a story in and of itself.I am not a young child though and I didn't enjoy this short novel.
This is a story about the Moffat family who live in Connecticut. They are; mother (father passed away), Sylvie, Joe, Janie, and Rufus. The story is mostly told from the perspective of Janie, although there is a chapter devoted to Joe and one to Rufus. I read this to e and while she enjoyed it, I think I did more. I was cracking up on the chapter about Joe dancing the Sailor's Hornpipe. It's a fun book to read with your children; I hope e wants to read the other Moffat books!
