https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121586.Waldo_and_Magic_Inc
So to me the story ends on the wrong note and doesn't ring true really (hide spoiler)] So max of 3.5 stars ⭐️Magic Inc; now this was a fantasy story, again that I had never read despite having read so much Heinlein over the years, so I wasn't expecting a huge amount.
This might be fantasy and it might focus all the way through on Magic, but it is a fantastic story, well written with really interesting characters, and, AND, AND it is so well constructed from beginning to the end.
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Beams of Energy: "Waldo & Magic" by Robert A.
Heinlein(Original Review, 1980-08-21)My chief objection to models which suggest we will be much better off with satellites beaming down power to the ground comes in several pieces: 1.
I have been told that solar flux in the bands used by solar cells is no more than twice as high in orbit as in, for instance, the American Southwest.
Granted, there is some advantage to having the power available for longer periods but even a synchronous satellite would be shadowed for ~2.3 hours a day which would not be at the minimum demand time;
The surgeon is the brilliant Dr Chris Ogden, and his instrument is the DaVinci surgical robot, a waldo.
I am alive today due to the extraordinary skill of Dr Ogden, and the amazing engineers who created the DaVinci surgical waldo.A few months later, I was able to find a copy of the book, and some cover art, which I prepared and presented to Dr Ogden with the above references to Heinlein's work, and my boyhood.
It's all magic.At which point magic becomes the new technology and the difference between one and the other is functionally negligable.
Meanwhile, I can't remember the plot of the book I read last week.
This was an original set of concepts when it was first published in the early 1940s and was still original 25 years later when I read it.
more than 70 years after the stories were published.
Both novellas are based on that one concept to which I continue to adhere: we believe in what works and what works is what we believe in.
Waldo, the world's greatest expert on building remote controlled manipulators, wants to know why things are malfunctioning.
It seems to be a problem that happens at very small scales.
So he takes his smallest manipulator, and uses that to build an even smaller manipulator.
Then he uses that to build a smaller manipulator still.
We actually can build things at the molecular scale.
Was Heinlein basically right about how we got there, ignoring uninteresting details like it taking tens of thousands of people several decades rather than a lone genius one weekend?
I'm embarrassed that I don't know the answer.
Siempre que leo a Heinlein siento que es como si un tío de la familia me estuviera contando una historia de su vida.
Supongo que lo más fácil en este caso es hacer un promedio ya que son solo dos historias."Waldo", publicada originalmente en 1942 en la Astounding Magazine bajo el pseudónimo de Anson McDonald.
Me gusto más que "Waldo", tiene más el estilo Heinlein que siempre disfruto.
Archibald Fraser, propietario de un negocio en el rubro de la construcción, y unos peculiares amigos se unirán para acabar con el monopolio que una endemoniada compañía de magia intenta imponer a la fuerza.
A partir de ahí ambos visitarán a un variopinto ramillete de profesionales mediadores: Abogados, Brujos étnicos, magos blancos...hasta dar con el meollo del asunto: Mágia Sociedad incorporada.Y Es que Heinlein, con ésta magnífica sátira y crítica social, nos introduce en un mundo dominado y controlado por la Magia, en el que los practicantes locales de Taumaturgia son imprescindibles para el día a día en todos los aspectos, y de eso se apoderan y sirven unos cuantos, principalmente, los abogados que tramitan, dan de alta o admiten cómo válidos o no a los Taumaturgos y su asignación a un negociante en concreto, y por descontado, sirven de mediadores, testigos oficiales - legales de desastres y reembolsos pertinentes o no al asunto.
But when an engineer and his family doctor come seeking help for a problem that has stumped them, Waldo is reluctantly persuaded and it turns out that he benefits from experience.“Waldo” is a fine little story about faith in technology and magic.
Waldo’s orbital home is interesting, his dog is cute, and his personal development is uplifting.“Magic, Inc” was originally published in 1940 in Unknown Fantasy Fiction.
He also stresses the importance of knowing what’s going on in politics and who your legislators are.I wouldn’t call Waldo & Magic, Inc a must-read, but it’s a collection of two pleasant stories that showcase Heinlein’s earlier work.
Both are well known and acknowledged classics; Waldo has lent its name universally to remote-handling devices, and Magic, Inc., can arguably be named as a founder of the urban fantasy genre decades before the phrase was coined.
Magic, Inc., suffers a bit because it pauses for a very, very long lesson in politics and economics partway through, and might be construed as being a little non-politically-correct in spots, though Heinlein obviously went out of his way in an attempt to avoid that.
Anyway, it's a pair of great stories from the classic age of the field, one from Hohn W.
Mediocre Heinlein. 2 short novels. Waldo starts out as a proper technological fix the problem story then gets very weird, jumps the shark. Not satisfying as a story. Magic Inc. is readable but not outstanding; the depiction of the mechanics of the political process is however just as fresh and relevant as when it was written over 60 years ago. Nice ways to kill time if you have nothing better to do, but yeah, skip Waldo completely I reckon.
For a long time remote handling devices were called 'waldoes' after the central character in the first part.
I was most interested in the fact that Waldo, handicapped by myaesthenia gravis, moved to an outer space habitat on the proceeds of the waldos.
This marked the first time I'd ever HEARD of myaesthenia gravis.The second part (Magic Inc) is basically unrelated.
I figure the page count turned up short, so they just plugged in another short story of about the right length, with a little cutting and polishing to fit.
A Heinleinian romp through mid-century libertarianism, social problems, and of course, the line between science and magic. Heinlein was ahead of his time and is now way the hell behind ours; it's fascinating to read his once cutting-edge work as it fades.ETA: Goodreads lists this as a 1986 publication, which it totally was not. This novella pair was published in 1950 (and written in the early 1940s).
1977 grade A+2010 grade A
Heinlein and fantasy! That's different! Waldo was an interesting tale of a man who overcame his physical disability by inventing remotely control devices (named after himself, Waldo) to aid him into becoming a much stronger man.Magic, Inc was his libertarian advocacy against government sanctioned monopoly. In this case, magic in which everyone could have performed before regulation kicked in. Our protagonists formed an odd trio to resolve the problem with magic once for all.I really enjoyed both stories, it showed Heinlein could write fantasy stories too.
Finally got around to reading this classic novella from the master of SciFi, Robert Heinlein. Not sure why I've never read it before now, but I'm glad I finally got around to it. A very enjoyable novella length near-future story that with a number of twists and turns in it that I found to be a very enjoyable read. As always, Heinlein makes you think when you read his stories, and this one is no exception. Definitely on my recommended list.
The great thing about reading a book you read more than 25 years ago is that it is almost like reading a brand new book. I had vague, happy, memories of what went on in these stories - but I remember that Waldo was this genius who had very weak muscles and I remember about the "vanishing food" at restaurants in "Magic, Inc."There is much richness in these stories and I can see now how even in these stories Heinlein influenced my philosophy, politics, and economics.
Waldo was very interesting: I had some mixed feelings about the whole "energy from nowhere"thing and keeping things going by imagination.... I was hoping he'd explore its source a little more, it's an uncomfortable concept to be honest, but I suppose leaving it vague and unexplored was the point. Magic, Inc was an interesting take on magic in the modern world with issues such as certifications, licenses, businesses, laws, and monopolies on the use of magic.
One of the fascinating things about these two novellas (and perhaps why they are always bound together) is that Waldo is about the discipline of Magick, whereas Magic, Inc. is about the practice of politics.
When a company starts having it aircraft crashing at a fantastic rate, Waldo who is forced to live in zero gravity is contacted to identify the problem and develop a solution. He discovers that not only will the solution solve the company's problem but his own as well.
Sci-fi from the early 40's probably by definition has not aged well, no matter how skilled an author that penned it. Still, it's an OK read.
The patent gives him the financial means to relocate to a personal fortress of solitude in zero-g low earth orbit where his lack of strength is not a liability.The conundrum of the story is the world’s dependency on radiant (wirelessly transmitted) power which is used world wide to supply electricity for everything from flying cars to the home, copper transmission lines having been abandoned and mined.
The North American Power Authority (NAPA) deems this a Waldo class problem, with the wrinkle that NAPA indirectly cheated Jones out of a different patent, making it problematic to deal with him.
This pair of stories by Heinlein is interesting for the common exploration of the theme of magic, and for the somewhat gentler style of Waldo.
Magic.
It is somewhat incidentally set in a world in which magic is a tool and trade like many others, but that has little to do with his political rant.Waldo is more interesting, and explores a host of themes from how a physical disability focuses mental development, to the misanthropy of those who were excluded in youth, to the adage that any sufficiently advanced technology may appear to some as magic.
The most interesting part of this pair of stories which have always been published together except the first time where they were published in two different pulp magazines that interestingly enough had John Campbell as publisher.
John Campbell, a man I know very little about except he was responsible for bringing to the attention of the public some great sci-fi authors like Heinlein and Sturgeon.
Just found out that the winner is announced at The Hugo Awards.
More about the Campbell Award for all you sci-fi lovers can be found here: http://www.sfcenter.ku.edu/campbell.htm
Magic or technology, technology or magic. The lines blur depending on your point of view. If you believe its truth, it functions like technology, if you do not, it is like magic. Functionally, does it really matter how it happens if it works for you? Changing your beliefs alters reality. This novella wonderfully explores this concept.
This was a less offensive Heinlein than many. It stars an insufferable "genius" who saves humanity by learning some physics magic. It had fewer female characters than many Heinlein novels and therefore less chance to misrepesent the gender.
It's just what you expect from the first page... an unusual song and dance with the master of science fiction. A dated but timely book that turns current technology into a dangerous magic that has become critical to our modern lives. Spoiler... no Lazarus Long in this one.
It’s always enjoyable when a competent science fiction author decides to tackle the question of magic. Waldo does it beautifully; a real pleasure to read.
heinlein era un genio, e qui tira fuori due racconti lunghi assolutamente memorabili.
The last option is to seek the help, if it can be obtained, of Waldo, the crippled, misanthropic genius who lives in a self-contained orbital satellite and generally refuses to interact with anyone unless it serves his interests and is on his terms.This time around, I felt a strong connection to the title character in Waldo that is new, and connected to the severe degeneration of my own physical state since my last reading; now, I perceive Waldo as “crip lit” and a fairly sensitive example, for something written by a man who likely perceived himself as able bodied.
Waldo (1942) and Magic, Inc.
Waldo is more a hybrid of science-fiction and fantasy, starting out as straightforward science fiction and in the end, there is still a scientific underpinning and rationale to the magic.
And how cool can you get that the real-life waldoes, remote robot manipulators are named after this fictional character?
(Who in the story invented them and the device comes to be named after him.)Magic, Inc is quite different.
This is more traditional fantasy, although there's something of the science-fiction spirit in how it's treated.
I think it shows its age a bit more than Waldo.
