https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/219408.The_Young_Unicorns
My L'Engle reviews seem to have a theme: complaining noises followed by assertions why said complaints are meaningless in view of the whole, and a reference to love as the universal solvent.
This book is no different.
The hysteria about what L'Engle insisted on calling "pot" and "acid" to further distance herself from them?
Yeah, not a bit of this matters.
Just doesn't matter.
Just doesn't matter.
Somehow, L'Engle transcends all of that, sucks you in, makes you believe, and holds your hand throughout.
It's a wonderful book.
I found this book quite unnerving when I first read it, and it made a profound impression. However, my proudest (most shameful?) moment was in college taking Shakespeare when the final exam included a question about Coriolanus, which I had not actually had time to read because so busy writing in my journal. I had a moment of terror, then gritted my teeth, and began, "The noted writer, Madeleine L'Engle, in her tribute to Coriolanus..."
I always forget how weird this book is. I like most characters a lot, but the plot makes no sense at all. It's kind of shocking to think that this book is followed by A Ring of Endless Light, which is practically perfect in every way. It's less shocking that there are twelve years between the two.
Everyone's motives are unclear, and soon events are spiraling out of control as the Austins and Co. race to uncover the thread connecting them all.Just to whet your appetite, here's a favorite scene from the first couple of pages of the book:The man in the fur hat left the shadows of the doorway and followed the oddly assorted trio: the dark, shabby boy; the definitely younger and rather elegant girl; and the fair little boy who couldn't have been more than seven or eight years old.They reached the corner and turned down Broadway.
Dave and Emily 4-Eva!
I love Madeline L'Engle. Her books are not only good stories, but she deals with important themes, too. This book is a suspense novel, but it's also an extended discussion about agency, freedom, and identity. Lovely story with characters you care about.
None of which he'd have been likely to appreciate, but it's the reader's prerogative to feel.L'Engle's naming choices often carry some symbolic value, and the connection of Josiah Davidson to the Davidic king of Israel is openly remarked on in the book and reinforced by his father's name.
And even the nickname Dave comes from the Hebrew for beloved.As with most of L'Engle's work, the characters carry the book—which is really why I love her.
Where that wasn't owing to Josiah Davidson or Emily or the bright-eyed, bright-hearted little Rob, whom I also loved, it was owing to music.Music got to play its own role in the book, and L'Engle knows her stuff.
It doesn't matter if you are a grown-up, and this book is billed as young adult; read it anyway!L'Engle explores the topic of a powerful gang in New York City (not your typical shoot-out gang, but more psychological and sinister), which meets in an abandoned subway station.
He obtained the laser by breaking into the apartment of the scientist who developed it, blinding the scientist's musically talented daughter, Emily, in the process.The gang is working to control New York City, and travels through a series of subway tunnels.
One of the things L'Engle does best is carefully intertwine her otherwise disparate tales.
I delighted in stumbling across peripheral characters whom I recognized as well-loved protagonists from her other series.
The Austins serve as a homey, grounding backdrop for the story of a gifted, troubled former gang member in 1960s New York City.
I read and reread this tale as a young adult but was saddened to discover upon picking it up again maybe a year ago that it doesn't age as well as I'd hoped.
But L'Engle's descriptions of cozy, functional, imperfect family life stand out, and her treatment of high-church music-liturgical culture resonates.
This was my least favourite book of the Austin Family series. I think it tried to be a mystery but it was just so hard to get interested in. I felt like there should have been a book before this one to explain a lot of what happened. Let's just say that bishops, abandoned subway stations, genie's and lasers don't belong in the same book. Maybe it is one of those books where it is better when you read it as a child?
I liked the atmosphere in this book, an almost noir feel of New York City. After re-reading A Wrinkle in Time a few weeks ago (and seeing the movie), I decided to read all of L'Engle's YA books in publication order. Even though there are 3 series, a number of the characters crossover, albeit only a sentence or two, in more than one series. It was a good choice to read them in pub. order.
Not my favorite of the Austins' series--too much "mystery", not enough Vicky/young romance. The mystery is kind of hokey, too, but I guess I can't expect too much from a YA, I just hold L'Engle to a higher standard in general, though.
This is the second time I've re-read a Madeleine L'Engle book as an adult that I hold as a beloved memory.
The Cathedral of St. John the Divine -- where L'Engle was the writer in residence for many years -- is its own looming character in this book, and a glorious one.
The neighborhood around the Cathedral and Columbia is also clearly beloved to the author, and it was a trip down memory lane to see a New York that was already a little bit dated even when I read this as a kid.
It is also none of those but a philosophical exploration of what madness and megalomania can do to someone who is also in a position of influence; a plea to deal with violence and hatred in our cities; a warning about fascism that seems extremely pertinent in a trump post truth world; the benefits of music on individuals and society; and the ultimate belief that trust, love and kindness will eventually overcome hatred.
They have made friends with Emily, a girl who is a talented pianist who recently became blind due to a mysterious accident as well as her music teacher, Mr. Theo and her reader, Dave.
The Young Unicorns is the third book about the Austin family.
I like Dave (and I think he deserves better than Suzy, whom he marries according to the family tree in the front of the book, but perhaps Suzy improves upon maturity.
I also like Emily, Mr. Theo, and of course Canon Tallis.The plot in this book is a lot of fun, and the characters are great.
There is a real sense of danger, which is often missing from YA; the suspense is well-done in this book.
The writing is beautiful as always, the plot and characters engaging, and even though the central family may seem to perfect for words and things may wrap up far to smoothly, it's hard not to delight in the love these people obviously have for each other and the deep appreciation of music, literature, science and religion evident among them.
So though this portrayal is far from perfect, I'll still give L'Engle high marks for a fine blind character with a lot of potential.
Overall I love this book and would recommend it to anyone who enjoys lovable characters, plot twists and absolutely gorgeous writing.
I liked the first chapter or two; L'Engle does a beautiful job of depicting the Upper West Side scene around the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, and also the old mansion on Riverside Drive where Emily Gregory and the Austin family (yes, from Meet the Austins) are living.
I also think it is possible to appreciate a more mystical approach to truth without denigrating science, which is what she seemed to be doing in the book with a strong anti-rationalism theme.
I just didn't warm to the plot, and the Austins didn't seem like the same family I had come to know and love in the two prior books about them.
I'm starting to think that L'Engle's various series are largely interchangeable.
Characters cross back and forth and don't really have a "home", references are blithely made to any and all previous books, and there isn't much individual identity in subject matter or approach that separates the different series.
Vicky, who is the protagonist of the previous Austin series books, does not feature very prominently here.
One recommendation is that readers should perhaps tackle L'Engle's books in the order they were published, regardless of series.
The social message is still valuable and it is interesting to get L'Engle's views on the problems of the late 1960s.
I love this book!
Besides Many Waters, which is an amazing book, this is my favorite L'Engle.
It features the Austins, one of L'Engle's two main families, but it really stars Josiah Davidson, a former member of the Alphabats gang, and the Austin's blind friend Emily.
Lately, rumors have been abounding that the Alphabats are planning something.
Robbie and Suzy Austin had an encounter with a potential genie, and the man who blinded Emily while rifling through her father's office still has not been identified.
What do all of these mysteries add up to?
I would recommend this book to anyone and everyone!
I really didn't like this book.
The atmosphere of the book is disturbing, the main plot is ridiculous, but it is the lack of characterization that is the main flaw.
I have read other books about the Austins and enjoyed their understanding of each other and the rapport between the family members.
They appear in the story with no introduction or explanation, and turn out to be key players in the plot.
I have read The Wrinkle in Time more than once, and really enjoyed The Ring of Endless Light, also about the Austins.The Young Unicorns was a real disappointment.
I just don't like L'Engle's intrigue novels as much as her other ones -- maybe because I like the other ones so much. I think the intrigue ones try to be realistic, but they come off as less grounded in reality than the Wrinkle in Time series.
Good overall. Quite a slow start, but the last quarter was intriguing.
L'Engle's such a great storyteller. This got off to a slow start, as she took some time to set up the characters. Then, like a genie from a lamp, everything fell into place.
The 1st book well illustrated the busy-ness and seemingly unorganized lives of the Austin Family.
This 3rd book jarred me back to the busy and seemingly unorganized lives of the Austin family.
I felt there was no reason to continue reading this strange book.Thankfully in Chapter Eight, a discussion between Vicky and her father Dr Austin, saved the day (my reading of the book).
Intriguing to me was that Vicky sensed something was going on that her father, Dr Austin, did not fully admit nor notice how ‘it’ was affecting his whole family (individually and as a whole).
I continued to read to discover what the IT was.
I think when I first read it as a teen I was wondering where are the 'unicorns' well in this case it was a metaphor.
I think in another book of her's she talked about this one and said unicorns were a symbol of innocents.
L'Engle always had books that had equal time of adult characters and teen and children characters, especially with the Austins, it mirrors her own family life which was big, and full and had a lot of love and acceptance.
I think a lot of real life families are missing that.
This book is really quite different than the rest of the Austin books; it almost seems out of place, like a book about Dave and Emily FEATURING the Austins as supporting/ cameo characters.
Dave and Emily were such fun characters as well, and I wish they showed up in the other Austin or O’Keefe books!
The Austins are living in New York in a large house where a young blind girl, Emily, lives on the floor below them.
The story's mystery involves the work of Dr. Austin which is not sharing with his family including his wife, Victoria.
An evil brother of the bishop wants to use the laser to change the character of "bad" people to good and thereby save the city of New York.
Even though Victoria Austin was an accomplished actress, the reader sees that she views her work as a mother in the home as important as any other career.
However it's intended for older children and younger teens, so I didn't find it too disturbing.
While reading the book, I was totally caught up in the storyline and could barely put it down.Some of the concepts are quite advanced, and some of the situations could be worrying for a younger or sensitive child, so I wouldn't suggest this to anyone below the age of about ten or eleven.
But I would definitely recommend it to older children and teens, as well as adults wanting a fairly quick read with a bit of depth, and some interesting issues to ponder.
Wavering between four and five stars on this one; it's one of my favorite L'Engle books, still, and I found it well worth rereading.
"Unicorns" has a mixed-race teen boy as its protagonist, and I loved Dave's journey toward love and wholeness.
I also love 12-year-old Emily's depiction.
The young girl, for whom Dave acts as a reader, was blinded two years ago.
She's also, at times, a very believable young adolescent.
At least, in my humble opinion, and I noticed that a blind reviewer agreed with me.As to the main plot, it's smart and cinematic.
It's a good book!
This book is atypical from the rest of the Austin Family series in a number of ways -- it's the only time that the family dynamic itself becomes part of the problem rather than the stable basis that helps take the edges off the challenges Vicky Austin faces.
That said, the characters are engaging, and the mystery kept me on the edge of my seat even as it wasn't the most surprising set of twists in the world.
The change of setting to NYC matches the change in tone and focus of the series for this single episode -- I think overall it works.
