https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28350.I_Wish_That_I_Had_Duck_Feet
I Wish That I Had Duck Feet, Dr. Seuss تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و یکم ماه می سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: کاش پاهای اردکی داشتم؛ نویسنده: زئوس؛ مترجم: رضی هیرمندی؛ تهران، افق، کتابهای فندق؛ 1386؛ در 40 ص؛ شابک: 9789643694203؛ چاپ دوم: مصور در 69 ص؛ شابک: 9789643699352؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مپسربچه ای خیالپرداز آرزو میکند که دارای پاهایی مثل پاهای اردک و یا دو شاخ گوزن روی سرش باشد. او گاهی نیز آرزو میکند که مثل نهنگ یک فواره روی سرش داشته باشد، و یا نه اصلا بهتر آن است
I Wish That I Had Duck Feet, Dr. Seuss تاریخ نخستین خوانش: بیست و یکم ماه می سال 2008 میلادیعنوان: کاش پاهای اردکی داشتم؛ نویسنده: زئوس؛ مترجم: رضی هیرمندی؛ تهران، افق، کتابهای فندق؛ 1386؛ در 40 ص؛ شابک: 9789643694203؛ چاپ دوم: مصور در 69 ص؛ شابک: 9789643699352؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان امریکایی - قرن 20 مپسربچه‌ ای خیال‌پرداز آرزو می‌کند که دارای پاهایی مثل پاهای اردک و یا دو شاخ گوزن روی سرش باشد.
او گاهی نیز آرزو می‌کند که مثل نهنگ یک فواره روی سرش داشته باشد، و یا نه اصلا بهتر آن است که یک دُم خیلی دراز داشته باشد.
My kids knew the words by heart. They probably still could recite them.
This book is about wishing you were different. It talks about different animal body parts that would be fun to have. In the end, the character decides that he likes being himself. This would be a fun read for early childhood classrooms and elementary classrooms.
He checked it out from the library and read it to me as part of his weekly free reading assignment for school.The book centers on a young boy, probably about my son's age, who wants to change.
He wants duck feet, or antlers or a whale spout among other alterations to his body.
He thinks of all the wonderful things he could do with his new powers and then the problems he would have with them.Things get out of hand with his imagination and soon he's the latest attraction at the zoo.
In the end he decides to just be himself.
What I like about this one, compared to the 90 million other books with the "be yourself" message, is that it shows the difference between wanting to be different for the sake of being different and seeing your inherent uniqueness.
He starts out wanting the different animal parts so he can show up Big Bill Brown for some reason (the book never actually says why the kid doesn't like Bill).
In the end, he decides to just be himself, even though there is no outward or obvious difference between him and everybody else.
This book is a whimsical romp through a child's fantasies about what it would be like to have various parts of his body transformed into animal parts.
While it's kind of amusing at times, it also weirded me out a lot as a kid because the child was clearly having fun and yet people around him were making horrified or shocked faces.
I tend to be alienated by books that depict someone expressing their individuality or being proud of their differences only to show other people giving them crap about it.
I just didn't really click with this book because I was distracted by the background folks' reactions.
A wonderful Seuss book. A boy wishes he had various anatomical differences and explains why they would be good and why they would be bad and then makes himself happy just being him as he is.2 problems - 1 is he continually refers to another boy as the one he doesn't like and wants to be better than but also thinks he will get tied up by. 2nd problem is that it ends a bit abruptly.
It's funny b/c I see that my brother gave this book 5 stars! It creeped me out when I was little. I think that I was always worried that the boy wouldn't be able to get rid of his new animal parts.
Such a delight!
I kissed him and literally tucked his blankets up underneath him (::giggling:: "Why do you always do that?" "Because you are my Christo-burrito"), and as I made to leave, he said, "Will you read me a story?"Way past his bedtime, but I can never resist.
I'd never read this Dr. Seuss book before, so away we went.Longer than I'm normally allowed to read him past his bedtime, but so sweet.
He and I both had a good giggle at the silly things that happened when the boy got his new animal parts.
A wonderful book by -- when I read it a couple thousand times as a kid -- Theo. Geisel, later known as Dr. Suess, the story and illustrations captured my imagination and are part of the reason I wanted to write.
Excellent Seuss book, flows easily for a change
I enjoyed reading this with my daughter!! It has a true meaning for everyone!!
Easy enough for beginning readers to read aloud, fun for pre-schoolers to listen to and pick out all the animals in the pictures.
I got this for my son as he likes Dr Seuss and I only had a copy of his books at home.
The boy uses his imagination to think about what his life would be like if he had things like duck feet, an elephant’s trunk and a whale spout, or even better all of them together.
But then he realizes that he is better just being himself.
Of course, it took him over 65 pages to realize this, and the story dragged on and on.
My son got bored pretty quick, as did I.
A fun rhyming book about a little boy imagining he has a variety of animal parts on his body, being so excited about the good parts of each animal part, then thinking about the cons and deciding he'd better not have that part (duck feet, antlers, etc.)The moral of the story is to be happy with who you are, as you are.Loved the rhymes.
Loved the silly situations.
The pictures are alright, even though I'm not a fan of that "dated" art style (and yes, I know this book is old!) Ultimately, this was a good selection from most recent library trip.
My friend Kevin is reading a list of best children's books. I am following suite in order to discuss the books with him. By default, I give the books four-stars because they're good at what they're intended to do, which is to keep the attention of children and introduce them to literature.It is good to be different, but NOT TOO DIFFERENT!!!!!!
Review first published on my blog,  Nine Pages .A little blond boy wishes for various animal body parts. He has creative uses for each, but each of them gets him in trouble in some way or another. What he has against Big Bill Brown I don’t know, though it seems he might bully the protagonist–certainly the protagonist imagines that Bill would do so if the protagonist were to possess a long tail. Still the vindictiveness of the protagonist’s references to Bill were somewhat unsettling to me, even
.A little blond boy wishes for various animal body parts.
As a Which-What-Who with all the different animal parts on his body, he thinks that the townspeople would turn against him, be so scared that they’d call the policemen, who would catch him in a net and bring him to the zoo, where he’d be forced to eat hay in a cage.
The boy in the book carefully selects the things he wished he had, such as; duck feet, two horns on his head, a whale spout, a long tail, an elephant trunk, and all of them combined.
Although, with each thing he listed having a pro, they also inevitably had a con.
For example, he wanted the long tail but feared Big Bill Brown would use it to tie him to a tree.
Therefore, at the end of the book, he came to the realization that there is nothing he'd ever want to be other than himself.
Imagine having feet like a duck, antlers like a deer or an elephant's trunk. You may find you're better off just the way you are. By combining the funniest stories, craziest creatures and zaniest pictures with his unique blend of rhyme, rhythm and repetition, Dr. Seuss helps children of all ages and abilities learn to read.
I read this to my 17 year son, who has autism and intellectual disability and I managed to get his attention and evoke a conversation about it, which was pretty cool. Great story, which rhymes and is silly but there is a sense of logic to it.
I like this book a lot. It shows how people constantly wish to be someone else their not, but in the end they don't want to be all those things because every one of those things have negatives. This book helps with rhyming and verbs within the sentences.
El mensaje que se intenta dar a través del relato es realmente muy bueno pero tal vez la forma no sea del todo feliz. Me preocupa particularmente el lugar dado a la mirada del otro (y ese padre abusivo).
another book with deep meaning. in fun way it teaches that we should be who we are, not matter what we wish for.
Being Yourself
A funny story about a boy thinking about all the different things he wants to have instead of normal body parts.
114 - 2018
A fun story that all kids can relate too. This text would be an excellent introduction to conjunctions.
Hav loved it!
Read to James
