https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33457.Practical_Demonkeeping
“Practical Demonkeeping: A Comedy of Horrors” by Christopher Moore takes place in Pine Cove, along California’s Big Sur coast.
Here we meet Travis, a 100 year old ex-seminarian and scholar, though he appears to be 20 years old, and Catch, his demon companion with a nasty habit of eating most of the people he meets.
Catch is a demon bound to earth by King Solomon and by invocation to Travis.
Catch is eating more and more of the local inhabitants and looking for a new master in the process.
This copy is signed by Christopher Moore.
holy crap,this book. was.  bad. so effing bad there must be a logical explanation for it. the logical explanation is: christopher moore, you used to be a very stinky writer. i'm not sure what happened between "practical demonkeeping" and "a dirty job", but i'm guessing it was nothing short of an earth quaking, baby shaking, holy sweet mother of pearl miracle. all the raw elements are there. the slightly deranged yet interesting menagerie of characters, the twisting, intercoursed plot lines, a co
the slightly deranged yet interesting menagerie of characters, the twisting, intercoursed plot lines, a couple of very, very sparse wiz-bang laugh out loud moments.
flaky, course, and practically crawling with a thousand miniscule little problems that, once under your skin, are sure to cause itchiness, bloating, and a generally rashlike redness caused by wondering: "why the hell am i still reading this book"?
and i can never be too mad at him for taking up my time with "practical demonkeeping", because this is the man who later gave me toaster eating demon dogs from hell.
Cool, fun book. Absurd, irreverent, inventive, erudite, and entertaining. Some conveniently wound up loose ends, inconsistent in parts, but a descendant of Vonnegut at his best.
I'm rereading this on audio because I desperately needed a laugh but even this book isn't doing it.
Might it be because I've already heard all of the punchlines and I need more snark?
It's mildly entertaining but has some dull moments and too many long moments of explanation and I find myself drifting away all too often.My impressions when I initially read it:This is a quirky book about a young priest-in-training who unwittingly commands a demon into existence that gives him immortality but follows him around eating folks for, well, forever unless he can find a way to send the demon back to hell.
Pine Cove is an interesting place with a lot more going on in the small town than would be expected from the surface appearances & that just added to the confusion.
The cast of characters were interesting, as always.After reading this, I found that it is Moore's first book.
Like many, the first of his that I read was A Dirty Job & for some reason I thought that was his first.
I've read a couple of others & enjoyed them all, so this is well worth your time if you want a laugh.
This is the first Moore book that I have read, and I have to say, I am a fan.
He tries various methods of returning his demon friend to the underworld such as reading cantations from spell books and running him over with his car.
The story takes off from there, jumping back and forth from different perspectives as the town tries to deal with this demon menace.
Moore has an easy to read, yet very witty and sarcastic writing style.
I would recommend this book and the author to anyone who's looking for a good laugh, and I plan to read more Moore in the future.
This was exactly what I came to expect from a book by Christopher Moore: fun, somewhat strange and mysterious, not too real but realistic.In typical Moore style this book takes you on a journey that is filled with unbelievable alternative realities and laughs.I don't really know what else to say, but just give his writing a go if you like funny and magic books. (Mind you magic books, not books about magic!)
Kick back and curl up with this well written and light hearted book that will definitely give your funny bone a work out! This book is a very fast read, Christopher Moore's tale is not only captivating but will leave you laughing! You just have to love Christopher Moore's morbid humor. Having read Bloodsucking Fiends by Christopher Moore, I figured this book would be just as hilarious, and it is comparable, but not the same. This is a great story, has an interesting plot, and has very memorable
Kick back and curl up with this well written and light hearted book that will definitely give your funny bone a work out! This book is a very fast read, Christopher Moore's tale is not only captivating but will leave you laughing! You just have to love Christopher Moore's morbid humor.
  Having read Bloodsucking Fiends by Christopher Moore, I figured this book would be just as hilarious, and it is comparable, but not the same. This is a great story, has an interesting plot, and has very memorable characters. Just don't go in thinking it is a Christopher Moore classic!
If this had been the first time I read anything of Moore's, I'd probably give it four stars.
But seeing as this is the first novel he's written and the fourth of his I've read, I know how much better he becomes as he gets a few more books under his belt.All the telltale marks of Moore are fabulously apparent: Well-turned phrases, otherworldly understatement (Moore is one of the few times I appreciate understatement as a humorous device, which probably has a lot to do with his tone), cleverly executed paranormal expeditions and a knack for gleefully approaching what others would consider grand-scale tragedies are all here in their fledgling glory.
I should stop paying attention to how a book is labelled on Goodreads or elsewhere.
There are parts that will make you laugh out loud.
If you laughed when Monty Python white bunny appeared in Monty Python and the Holy Grail then there is something for you here.
Unfortunately, scenes like that are pretty rare.
Other things got more attention.
It is worth reading the book if only for those moments.What I didn't like the most is the resolution.
Not everyone got what they deserved.
It is still a fun story and I am not sorry for reading it.

This was an absolute delight of a fairy tale for adults. Demons, djinns, adventures, magic and moral included. With a side of mayhem and homicide by devouring. I've read Moore before and liked him, it was nice to see that he was this good out of the gate as this debut proves. Maybe not as much laugh out loud funny as Dirty Job or Fool, but just as fun, imaginative, clever, humorous and entertaining as only Christopher Moore can do. Highly recommended.
Fuck.Yes.I love you, Christopher Moore, and your cracktastic brain and the weird shit that comes out of it, winds up on the page, and then gets published so I can read the shit out of it because Fuck. Yes.This book his hilarious and fun and wonderful and ridiculous.So. Yes.
Wickedly funny. That's the term I'm searching for. This book with its winos, pagans, wrinkled-prune Djinn, and hungry demon is wickedly funny.
Aún así, tiene puntos muy buenos y cuando ya coges el ritmo y todas las historias de los personajes principales se van entrelazando, empiezas a disfrutar, pero eso no pasa hasta pasada la mitad del libro, por lo que ha sido un poco farragoso leer esta historia.
La verdad es que es una novela algo rara, pero tiene partes desternillantes donde destaca el humor negro y macabro marca del autor.Un libro algo loco, oscuro, con mucho humor negro y tintes de terror.No es para mí la mejor novela de Christopher Moore, pero no ha estado mal del todo.
Enjoyable and funny.Of Moore's work, I read A DIRTY JOB first and really dug it, then subsequently picked up FOOL and LAMB and didn't make past the halfway point with either one.
DEMONKEEPING is closer to DIRTY JOB in terms of style and tone, a similar, lighthearted feel to it, and even a common character in the police detective Rivera.
The problem I had with DEMONKEEPING is the number of characters.
I liked all of them, but we never really got to know any of them too well, espeicially Travis, the main character.
HYSTERICALLY FUNNY!!! I lost count of how many times I had to pause reading because I was laughing so hard! Christopher Moore’s writing reminds me movies like “Blazing Saddles” and “Airplane”…he actually manages to tell a story in between all the insanity! Recommend to anyone looking for a good laugh!
This is the first time that I've actually read a whole book in one day. It was just so flippin' funny I couldn't put it down!
The story follows not only Travis and Augustus, but also most of the small town of Pine Cove.
As I stated before, this is a quick and easy read, my only complaint is that in order to get to the resolution, Moore does break down into a long and over involved exposition by one of the characters (Travis) that I felt could have been either broken up better through the story, or told a bit more naturally.
In the end the resolution makes the story work and certainly doesn't let the reader down.
This is the third book by Moore that I have read (after Lamb and the Stupidest Angel), but chronologically it is Moore’s first published work.
The story takes place in Moore’s oft-used fictional town of Pine Cove, CA.
It was far less quirky and humorous and silly as the two later Moore books I read, as if Moore hadn’t found his voice yet.
Moore’s books are known for their ever-twisty plots, but the exposition usually comes out more naturally than it does in this one.
This was my first Chistopher Moore book.
I had heard mixed reviews about his works, and wasn't sure if I would like them.
So I picked up a copy of Practical Demonkeeping.Practical Demonkeeping definitely reads like a first novel.
However, there is enough there that I definitely wanted to keep reading.
There were a few good zingers too.Since I read in other reviews that Christopher Moore gets better with his later books, I picked up his second book Coyote Blue.
Coyote Blue is much better than Practical Demonkeeping.
I am looking forward to even more Moore.
I think I have an issue getting through the first chapter in any Moore book, save Lamb.
I like how Moore weaves together multiple characters and events, including sometimes silly, pointless side lines of things that happen as a result of the plot.
His characters are always diverse, interesting things, and often times display attributes true to people I've known.
I think what I like most about Moores' books is the plot; it's always quirky, well thought out and diverse.
Although this is not one of Christopher Moore's funniest books in my opinion, it definitely has its moments.
Mavis, the bar owner from Stupidest Angel is here, as is Detective Rivera from Dirty Job and Moore's vampire novels.
(I particularly enjoyed the way Mavis answers the phone in the bar: "Garden of Eden, Snake speaking.")P.D. is one of Moore's earlier novels and doesn't seem to have as much focus as his later books, but it's still decent brain candy when you want a cheap laugh and you don't want something to really have to think about much to enjoy.

Practical Demonkeeping was Christopher Moore's first novel and even being his debut, it has all of the fun that I expect from the best author of humorous fiction alive. In this early work, you can easily see the influence of Tom Robbins, Carl Haissen and even perhaps some Douglas Adams. Yet Christopher Moore's strange brain is like no other and even here he reveals an unique sense of wit. His opuses Lamb and A Dirty Job are still years away but Practical Demonkeeping is as weird and funny as any Moore novel.
I just could NOT finish this book. i almost always make myself finish a book i start - couldn't with this one... i don't want to call it awful, because maybe i am just not getting it. i just finished two of the author's other books (just last month), and really liked them; "A Dirty Job" and "Secondhand Souls". If you try this book and don't like it, i suggest you give the author another chance.
3.5 stars. Check out the audio book if you can. The demon sounds just like Cookie Monster and that alone kept me laughing through this one. It isn't the masterpiece that is Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal but it's still pretty damn funny.
More fun on the rampage from Christopher Moore.
This is the second of his books that I’ve read.
I guess absurdist fiction just isn’t my thing.
It got better later on, but it was an off-putting start.
A lot of characters and different plot lines were introduced in rapid succession, and everything seemed too random.
The middle of the story got much better as the plot lines converged.
Things were too conveniently wrapped up and anticlimactic.
It’s a quirky story but a little too weird for my tastes.RATING FACTORS:Ease of Reading: 4 StarsWriting Style: 3 StarsCharacters and Character Development: 3 StarsPlot Structure and Development: 3 StarsLevel of Captivation: 3 StarsOriginality: 3 Stars
Audio version.Like most Moore novels, funny and fast paced. Points off for borderline offensive depictions of trans folk and plus sized people. I acknowledge that this was written in 1992; perhaps Moore would have used different terms if written today.
