https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/170448.Animal_Farm
Old Major probably represents Vladimir Lenin and Karl Marx, and it's not the socialist ideal put forward that is critiqued by this book but how that vision is corrupted by certain other characters, namely another pig called Napoleon, who represents Joseph Stalin.
Napoleon chases a pig called Snowball (Leon Trotsky) off the farm with his personally trained dogs (while still just the General Secretary of the Party, Stalin recruited people who would follow him blindly, so that when Lenin died in 1924 he was able to defeat Trotsky for the leadership position and his "dogs" kept everyone else in line).The pigs then take charge, and with their literacy skills keep changing the rules the animals established in order to suit themselves, using a pig called Squealer to convince the other animals that their memories are faulty.
Who knows what kind of thoughts and actions that might lead to?Amazon and Animal FarmOn 17 July 2009, Amazon.com withdrew certain Amazon Kindle titles, including Animal Farm and Nineteen Eighty-Four by George Orwell, from sale, refunded buyers, and remotely deleted items from purchasers' devices after discovering that the publisher lacked rights to publish the titles in question.
This is because you can't buy a Kindle book, only rent one and Amazon can update (read 'change') them.

The only good pig is a dead pig.Yeah, yeah, everyone claims Orwell wrote this as about the Russian Revolution, Stalin, and the rise of Communism. Pshttt. Whatever.You know what I think he was really saying? Beware the Other White Meat!  Ok, maybe not. Look, I know what you're thinking, That pig looks adorable!, but the next thing you know, that piggy is all grown up and stealing your cookies!And you'll let it steal your cookies because Mr. Pig has convinced you that giving up your cookies every
Whatever.You know what I think he was really saying?
Look, I know what you're thinking, That pig looks adorable!, but the next thing you know, that piggy is all grown up and stealing your cookies!And you'll let it steal your cookies because Mr. Pig has convinced you that giving up your cookies every day was a part of the original agreement!
Probably just a coincidence, though.Right?But it's ok because pigs are smart.
That's what everyone says, right?
Question everything, especially the things we think we know are true.
I found one more pig gif!
A perfect book. People will still be reading this in a thousand years time, when communism is just a footnote.
جورج أورويل عبقري بشكل مزعج. يكتب رواية أبطالها حيوانات في مزرعة ويخيل إليك بأن الأمر سيكون سخيفاً، أو شبيها بقصص الأطفال. على العكس، جورج أورويل نقل الواقع بكابوسيته، وجعل التاريخ أكثر قابلية للفهم، وشرح لنا باختصار كيف يمكن أن يتحول الإنسان إلى خنزير والخنزير إلى إنسان.رواية جديرة بوقتك بالتأكيد.
Funnily enough, i read this book as a child and thought that it really WAS about animals.
That's literary perversion in a class all its own.I'm thankful i read this in my formative years, before I had all this intellectual baggage (emphasis on baggage, piano on the intellect), because I got to appreciate it like a child would, almost like the way I appreciated Charlotte's Web. To me, back then, it was just another story about animals, albeit a wordy one, with no pictures.Which is probably why I still experience a certain righteous thrill when eating crispy bacon.
“All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others.”Those damn PIGS.I can't even.
All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others. Okay, this is why I avoid "great literature."  I get that this is an important novel, but good lawd. I did not enjoy it. A Big Effing DisclaimerJust because I don't like a novel doesn't mean I didn't "get" it. Is this novel important? Yes. Is it a brilliant allegory? Sure, if you read enough history to pick it apart. But is it a good story? This is where I'm diverging from the group. I (personally) did not enjoy reading it. My
Okay, this is why I avoid "great literature."  I get that this is an important novel, but good lawd.
Farmer Jones, a mean old bastard, owns the Manor farm where he keeps his animals (a variety of pigs, sheep, cows, etc) essentially in enslavement.He doesn't take particularly good care of these poor creatures and (as a result), they begin to consider some very...interesting ideas.
Led by Napoleon and Snowball, two pigs, the animals form a revolt and soon take over the farm for themselves.
في مزرعة الحيوان .. يهان المرء أو يهان : إذا اكملت قراءة الرواية احذر، لا ترفع رأسك عاليا لتنظر، لأنك إن نظرت اكتشفت، وإذا اكتشفت فهمت، وإذا فهمت سجنت أو كمّمت أو رضيت، وإذا رضيت اقتنيت أو سكت، فإذا سكت فاجلس ساكنا قرب أبواب الصمت، وأمّا إذا اقتنيت فالطبلة سعرها رخيص وفي المتناول، فاقتنها واجلس لتطبّل، ولا تخجل وإياك أن تستحي، ففن التطبيل فن عريق عراقة الإستبداد والطغيان، والتطبيل أشكال وألوان، فاختر لونك بإمعان.  في مزرعة الحيوانات .. واقع أم تخيلات ؟ : وأنت تقرأ هذه الرواية ذات الأحداث المتخي
أأنا أقرأ الرواية ؟ أم أعيش الرواية ؟ هل أنا هنا أم هناك ؟ أم إنّ هنا وهناك متشابهان أو ربّما متطابقان ؟فتدرك أن ما كتب في الماضي ليس بالضرورة متعلقا بأحداث الماضي، وأنّ الأساس في الرواية هو فكرة تحويل الثورة من وسيلة نحو الحريّة والتّحرر إلى أداة قمع واستبداد، وهذا أمر يحدث في العالم كلّه مهما اختلف الزمان، ونحن العرب نعرفه حق المعرفة.
نعم يصبح التّفريق بين الخنزير والإنسان أمرا صعبا يصل إلى حد إستحالة فعل ذلك، فالإنسان كائن مكرم ولكن تصرفاته اتجاه أخيه الإنسان قد تضعه في مرتبة أدنى من الحيوان.
الرواية تقرأ وربما تقرأ مرة ثانية، مليئة بالرمزية نعم، قد تبدوا للبعض طفولية نوعا ما، ولكن تستحقّ القراءة بكل تأكيد.
564. Animal Farm, George OrwellAnimal Farm is an allegorical novella by George Orwell, first published in England on 17 August 1945. According to Orwell, the book reflects events leading up to the Russian Revolution of 1917 and then on into the Stalinist era of the Soviet Union. Orwell, a democratic socialist, was a critic of Joseph Stalin and hostile to Moscow-directed Stalinism, an attitude that was critically shaped by his experiences during the Spanish Civil War. The Soviet Union, he believe
The pigs elevate themselves to positions of leadership and set aside special food items, ostensibly for their personal health.Some time later, several men attack Animal Farm.
رهبری این جنبش را گروهی از خوک‌ها به‌ دست دارند، ولی پس از مدتی این گروه انقلابی نیز به رهبری خوکی به نام ناپلئون، همچون همان آقای جونز، به بهره‌ کشی از حیوانات مزرعه می‌پردازند، و هرگونه مخالفتی را سرکوب می‌کنند.
پس از چندی حیوانات در پی شورشی، مالک مزرعه به نام آقای جونز را، از مزرعه بیرون کرده و خود اداره آن را به دست می‌گیرند.
يمكن لنا أن نقول أن روايتي مزرعة الحيوان وأولاد حارتناهما أعظم روايتان رمزيتان مباشرتان كتبتا في الق
"I won't read again to this writer", that was my first impression to "ANIMAL FARM".George Orwell was recommend to me by his two most famous books:"ANIMAL FARM" and "1984", and I had started reading "ANIMAL FARM" first by chance.
Then I though that Orwell, almost, hadn't have something to talk about in his other book; because he "has summarized up all what is happening in the occupied revolutions".
Later, I knew that "1984" was about Dystopian world that occurs after ANIMAL FARM's world.
and Overall, the book was full of simple comprehensive metaphors, and reminded me of Bolshevik traitors comrades like Trotsky and Kautsky, LOL.
I first read this in Grade 11 and decided it was my favourite book.
Animal Farm is a book I often think about and often quote, and it was a bit nerve-wracking to go back to it to see if it actually lived up to everything I had built it up to be.
Also, in response to this edition, I loved the illustrations.
That doesn't really have anything to do with this review, but I wanted to share my joy.Finally, thank you to Greg for gifting me this pretty book, reading it aloud with me over FaceTime, and letting me go on big rants about why Benjamin is the WORST.
However, some parts involve a lot less work than others and things quickly change...I somehow managed to dodge this landmine in high school and the ensuing couple decades.
However, I had a few conversations about it at work and decided it was time to give it a read.Animal Farm is a dystopian tale of revolution and the ensuing government.
Meet the new boss, same as the old boss.The revolution happens fairly quickly.
Then the pigs start maneuvering against each other and fucking over the other animals.
Other classics are fairly easy reads containing a wealth of wisdom.
Animal Farm is firmly in the second camp.
تو هیچ میدانی بزرگترین درنده دنیا کیست؟ لابد خواهی گفت شیر.
نه، به هیچ وجه!
إذا قرأت "مزرعة الحيوانات" ولم تعلم أن كاتبها إنجليزي لربما ظننت أنه عربي الأصل!
وإذا قرأتها وأنت لا تعلم أنها كُتِبت عام 1943 لربما حسبتها إصدارًا حديثًا!بعد أن أنهيتها قرأت عنها بعض الدراسات النقدية من نقّاد مختلفي الجنسيات، وقد أجمعوا على أن تفرُّد أورويل يرجع إلى أنه كتب رواية تصلح لأي زمان ومكان.كتبها أورويل تأثُرًا بالحرب العالمية الثانية، وكانت "المزرعة" هي الإتحاد السوفييتي، وكان لكل شخصية في الرواية من يقابلها في ذلك الوقت.
ورغم ذلك عندما تقرأها ستجد في رمزيتها تقاربًا شديدًا مع واقعنا، وستقفز الشخصيات المقصودة إلى ذهنك سريعًا، وسيتكرر هذا أيًا كانت جنسيتك!
It’s an allegorical tale representing the Russian Revolution where the characters in the book represent people during this time.I won’t go into the plot too much, but in a nutshell, this story is about a group of farm animals who rise up against the evil farmer who cares for them.
Young readers can read it and they won’t pick up on the meaning–they’ll just think it’s a story about a group of rebellious farm animals against humans, but I believe the message that Orwell wanted to express is that power corrupts.
George OrwellI got stunned for a while when I finished Animal Farm-a masterpiece from George Orwell- for the novella depicts our society so perfectly- the role of power, how corrupts those who are apex of a social system and eventually they eliminate their competitors, and it happens with almost every social system, it's like a treatise on our society.Napolean is not inherently evil, Napoleon's subsequent adoption of nearly all of Mr. Jones' principles and after that the animals treat fellow animals as human do their fellow counterparts.

Animal Farm is a dystopian tale of revolution and the ensuing government that takes over afterwards.
Review.I absolutely loved this book and the tale of this animal farm should concern anyone that believes in a free-thinking society.
All it takes is a revolution, distrust in facts, listening to false propaganda of any new administration and not questioning the slow changes that occur that gives government total control over personal freedoms and liberties.Animal Farm is a simple tale but it’s well written and holds many timeless truths.
It’s a story of power and the absolute power that can corrupt any type of democratic society.George Orwell was a flippin' genius to write this tale.Just read it.
It struck me that if only such animals became aware of their strength we should have no power over them, and that men exploit animals in much the same way as the rich exploit the proletariat."George Orwell wrote Animal Farm between November 1943 and February 1944, but the novel was not published straightaway, because of the USSR's status as an ally in the Second World War. George Orwell was a socialist writer, so the fact that he chose to do such a savage critique of the Soviet Union may come as a bit of a surprise to a present-day reader.
There’s no reading between the lines in order to ascertain the meaning, it’s all here on the page.
They are all mere devices, a means for Orwell to blurt out his political statement.
For me reading this, this was more of an insult to pigs than humans.
And I feel like I’ve read  Animal Farm before.
I feel like I didn’t need to read it, a plot summary would have given me everything the writing did.- This is the first book I read on my 2017 reading challenge, I hope I enjoy the others more!
مزیت تمام انقلاب ها همینه که خوب و قوی و با شعار ها و شوق ها و سرودها و اشک شادی مردم شروع میشه و بدبختی اش هم اینکه به پوکرفیسی و نارضایتی مردم از انقلابی که فراموش شده و اهدافی که تغییر پیدا کرده و به قول جورج اُرول در این کتاب "منسوخ شده" خط به خط این کتاب باعث پوزخند من بود و گاهی یاد تاریخ انقلاب های کشورهای مختلف میفتادم و یک جای هم حس کردم چقدر داستان این کتاب شبیه وضعیت کره ی شمالی هست و یک جاهایی هم حتی شبیه وضعیت کشور نازنین خودمون که هیچی اش شبیه اون شوق و شعار نفت ملی و تمام درآمدش برای مردم و در جیب مردم نیست !
Wow. Everything about this was so clever. I think my mind just exploded. Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:8. A classic with less than 200 pages
"They always call the other side ‘the elite’. Why are they elite? I have a much better apartment than they do. I’m smarter than they are. I’m richer than they are. I became president and they didn’t. And I’m representing the greatest, smartest most loyal best people on Earth – the deplorables, remember that?"- Donald Trump, June 20 2018"Four legs good, two legs better!"- George Orwell, Animal Farm, 1945
Not as formidable as 1984, this modern day fable, though, bears down hard on socialism and even more on the very aspects of our nature that brings power struggles about.First published in 1945, this allegorical criticism of Stalinist communism is nonetheless still relevant today as a cautionary satire on totalitarianism in general.
I absolutely loved this book. It wasn't boring to me at all. I think Orwell did a great job of symbolizing all the injustice that happens in name of an outside force and how simple minded people who do not educate themselves get taken advantage from, be it West for Soviet Russia, America for Iran or Terrorists for the United states.
He just had human beings in mind when he wrote animal farm.It is a powerful and compelling book both in content and style.
The Pigs destroy other animals though claiming to be their Saviors.While Benjamin, a donkey, and Boxer, a horse, remain my favorites.
I guess even the powerful pigs- like human beings all over the world when reading this book will most probably make similar claims.
I wonder if in today's world someone can write 1984 or Animal Farm, or even can one distinguish between the modern-day pig and the Benjamin?
لكني وجدته بعد القراءة صاحب ترجمة جميلة وكان في غنى غروره التي لاشك وجدت تشجيعها من الدار لإستقطاب القارئ العربي، والآن ليتمعن بنفسه مقارنة النصوص المترجمة مع النص الأصلي :نـ( 1)ـص دار المركز الثقافي العربي : (( دفع السيد جونز صاحب "مزرعة القصر" مزلاج قن الدجاج، لكنه كان ثملًآ جدًا إلى درجة أنه نسي إغلاق الأبواب.
الخ )) أنتهىترجمة : الدار، 1988م، دون اسمنـ( 4)ـص دار الشروق : (( أغلق مستر جونز صاحب مزرعة مانور الباب الخارجي للحظائر كعادته عند المساء إلا أنه كان ثملًآ للغاية، حتى إنه قد نسى أن يغلق الحظائر المختلفة لجميع حيوانات المزرعة!.
