https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/643962.L_is_for_Lawless
Book Review  4 out of 5 stars for L is for Lawless, the 12th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" cozy mystery series written by Sue Grafton in 1994. I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as it covered a lot with Henry, Kinsey's landlord and friend. He asks for her help to find the military records proving a good friend of his was in the service, in order to properly bury him. But this is where it takes a turn... Kinsey goes dark... well sort of... she's on a trip around the country to find the answers, st
Book Review
4 out of 5 stars for L is for Lawless, the 12th book in the "Kinsey Millhone" cozy mystery series written by Sue Grafton in 1994.
I thoroughly enjoyed this book, as it covered a lot with Henry, Kinsey's landlord and friend.
Kinsey goes dark...
Kinsey's personality makes these books....
A must-read in this series, but there are a lot of those!
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
My enjoyment of this book was really diminished by the fact that Kinsey NEVER punched Laura in the face. She needed punching repeatedly. Also, we're on book 12; Kinsey should not be getting tricked quite as easily or as frequently.But I want to hang out with the grandmother. She rocked.
In this book, the main character, Kinsey Millhone (a private investigator), is asked by her good friend/landlord, Henry, to help out a friend of his on a simple matter.
Then an old friend of the deceased shows up and gets attacked at the dead guy's apartment.
I'd recommend this easy read to anyone wanting a few hours of enjoyment as it's definitely one of Sue Grafton's better books in this series.
Kinsey helps a neighbor discover why his grandfather has been denied veteran's benefits.
It seems like an easily, but boring case.
Things change quickly when break-ins start occurring, and Kinsey starts to wonder what the burglars could have been after.The 12th Kinsey Millhone mystery in Grafton's alphabet series.
Kinsey traveled away from Santa Teresa in this book, and I wasn't a big fan of the cross country chase.
I wanted more of her crazy neighborhood stories, and less of the crazy characters involved in the case she was working.
I listened to an audio version of this book.
Kinsey is taking a rare week off from her PI business for William and Rosie’s wedding, but before she can get too relaxed, Henry asks her for a small favor.
Just what is really happening?I love it when a book takes off in ways I don’t expect, and that’s just what happened with this one.
It is fun to meet the rest of William and Henry’s family, and the character involved in the mystery are as strong as always.
A series thread introduced a couple of books back comes into play here again as well.
I give the credit to Sue Grafton for giving this book a more light-hearted feel to some of the other books and Grafton didn’t allow Kinsey never to catch a break even in the end.
It didn’t feel like one of Kinsey’s normal cases because she had no adversary to chase.
The Rawsons are not the best supporting characters but Grafton made it all work and kept me engaged in the answers just as much as Kinsey.If there was one thing I didn’t like about the book it was the split personality Kinsey has to family dynamics.
I had not read a Kinsey Millhone book for a while, and enjoyed catching up with the character, although I did not find this the best of the stories so far - the accidental features of the plot and her inability to extricate herself from a gang of criminals lacked credibility.
This is probably my least favorite Kinsey Millhone book.
I guess it was the author's attempt to get Kinsey out of her familiar setting.
Blecch.) I dearly missed Kinsey's familiar setting and familiar friends and after they left Dallas, found my interest flagging.
There were some interesting characters and situations but other than Kinsey, no characters to root for or really care about.
The plot was not exactly riveting and too complicated for the ultimate payoff.
Oh wait...there was no payoff.
Still Grafton on her worst day is still better than a lot of authors on their best.
I really enjoyed the comic caper style of this episode in the Kinsey Millhone series.
The beginning was a good build-up, but not near as much fun as the end.
I could understand Kinsey's appeal to some of the characters.
Her instant attraction (family-style) made the plotline even more humorous.
I hated the character, Laura, but enjoyed Kinsey's sister-style bantering with her.
The mystery was more of a treasure hunt, but the true treasure was the character Helen (aka Hell on Wheels).
This is definitely a character-driven story and I enjoyed the characters in the second-half of the story.
Initially I found this book to be a tad better than its most recent predecessors, but then we got to Dallas and the stupidity hit. The longer our heroine hung out with this book's gaggle of ancillary characters, the more idiotic she herself became. By the end I was wishing Granny would take both her shotgun and her Louisville Slugger to the whole lot of 'em.
She calls the dead guys family to report what's going on from the airport as the couple prepare to leave.She is hired to follow them and get back what they took and hoping they might figure out what the key is for, which Kinsey has.
Before she has it Ray shows up and tells her a different story about how he knew the dead guy and convinces Kinsey to team up with him to get the duffel which she now knows is full of cash.

I think this may be my next-to-the-last rereads...and it's one of my current favorites...Kinsey continues to struggle with her bio family, while jumping head first into her adopted family: Henry and the Sibs and Rosie.
There's going to be another wedding, and Kinsey is a bridesmaid again, so we should be alerted to trouble."No good deed goes unpunished," and this one is a doozy...a favor for a neighbor ends Kinsey in Louisville on the trail of buried bank loot...maybe.
Grafton creates a bad guy here with absolutely no redeeming qualities at all...and a quirky family that's as messed up as Kinsey's.
My favorite in the series so far.
RIP Sue Graften. I'm so sorry that you didn't get to "Z".
My guess is this experience pays her up for years to come.Her adventures take her from her California hometown via air to Dallas and, eventually, to Louisville, Ky. Her phone airline negotiations are definitely “old school” compared to today’s experiences.
If you go back and read the earlier alphabet mysteries, written in the 1990s but set in the 1980s, I’m sure you’ll find yourself thinking my thoughts: “This will be so much easier in the future, Kinsey.”Meanwhile, Kinsey continues to captivate me and I still feel like I know her without actually meeting her.
Then and old friend of the dead man shows up and twice the decedent's home is burglarized.
At that point Kinsey is hooked by her own curiosity, particularly when she catches sight of the potential burglar the second time.
What made the book so good is Kinsey's brilliance in fitting together the pieces of the puzzle to solve the mystery.
First figuring out the dead man had been in prison, not at war.
And then taking all the clues the dead man left behind to track down the loot.
Fantastic ride this is; through a mystery tour.
"L Is for Lawless" is the first book in the series that I've read in over four years, and I was a little surprised at my reaction to it.
I had forgotten how "tame" this series is in comparison to the harder-core mysteries that are so popular today.
Despite and "F-bomb" thrown in every so often, this one reminds me of some kind of cross between a "Cozy" and the grittier mysteries.
"L Is for Lawless" is a good, solid mystery (and I intend to read the rest of the series) but it seems so much tamer than I remember the "Alphabet Books' being.
Either grafton is faltering or I'm getting better.
I had this one figured out way before Kinsey did (and I'm not usually the first to figure things out).
Not only that but the plot didn't ring as true for me for a couple reasons: *spoiler* 1.) i didn't get why kinsey would stay involved when she wasn't getting paid, even if she did start it as a favor to Henry; and 2.) there wasn't even a partial resolution at the end--the "crooks" seem to get away and the family who she was originally trying to help were never even mentioned again.
I can't say I didn't enjoy the ride, but it seemed a bit more careless than her usual fare.
4 StarsThis story turned out much better than the I thought it would after reading the book-blurb.
Kinsey gets into one fine mess after volunteering to "help out" a friend of a friend.
The entire story is a hot mess, really.
We start out trying to get military benefits for a dead man; who may or may not have been in the military.
We end up running away from bad buys, looking for stolen money and avoiding the cops too.
I don't know how she does it; but Kinsey always manages to get in way over her head.
Much better on this outing! Ms. Millhone goes on a merry, cross-country chase & while I am sure that we, as readers, were supposed to feel sympathetic to her lack of funds and other problems, I took glee in listening to her whiny, judgmental self suffer. I liked the way that Ms. Grafton wove the title into the plot & I kept thinking of a fellow Pitt undergrad, Greg Lawless, as I read this one. Another quick read. On to M!
I enjoy the alphabet series by Sue Grafton. They are well written and plotted. Each book can be read as a stand alone; however, if you read them in order, you can experience the evolving character of the protagonist Kinsey Millhone.
The 12th book in the Kinsey Milhone alphabet series - and another good read. This one had Kinsey working a case for a friend of a friend for free. A "simple case" that turns out to be not so simple after all.
This was a strange Kinsey book, though I certainly admire Grafton for being able to change things up and keep introducing novelty in this series. Overall an interesting ride though I felt a bit cheated (like Kinsey) by the ending.
Listened to this one on audio. This one doesn't reflect her best writing, but it's sufficiently suffused with mystery and that page-turning quality of a decent story.
I borrowed this book from my local library. I liked it a lot. It was a book worth reading,for sure.
Definitely the best in the series so far. I love the twists and turns.
I enjoyed this one like all the others, but I figured out the clues long before Kinsey did.
Always good, always turning an odd way. Love that they are similar but never the same!

