https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190562.The_Language_of_the_Third_Reich
One of the main concepts in 1984 was Newspeak, where the government actively manipulated the language people spoke in order to control and limit their thoughts, to make dissent impossible.Well Orwell, as skilled a writer as he was, didn't invent all of this on his own.
He based much of his books on what he observed of Nazi Germany and Stalin's Soviet Union.
If Orwell wrote Newspeak, then this is a book about Neusprech, or how the Nazis manipulated language.
This is a shame, not just for his shortsightedness, but also because he might have written a great book on how the Soviets manipulated language.
I first discovered this, and his diaries, during work on my Master's thesis (specifically the chapter dealing with language as a tool for brutalisation in Nazi Germany). It left me speechless with admiration. The fact that one can see similar techniques being used again and again around the world, only amplifies the importance of his studies. Very glad to see it has been published by Routledge as my old copy is falling apart...
Update: Klemperer on the connection between Romanticism and the Nazis.https://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpre...First post on this book:To set the scene: Klemperer was one of the Jews to survive WWII in Germany because he was married to an Aryan.
Prior to Hitler, he was an academic in the field of literature and, having been forced out of his job, he kept detailed diary notes on how language was used under the Nazis in Germany.
As is always the case, reading small details of one person’s life can be moving in a way large statistics fail to be.
His even angrier perplexity that he has Jewish friends saying the same thing.Rest here:http://alittleteaalittlechat.wordpres...
But everyone knows a Jew.” Today it seems that everyone thinks they know a so-called illegal immigrant, Muslim, or abuser of social welfare—even though most don’t.“I judge as an intellectual,” noted Klemperer, “and Mr. Goebbels calculates with masses who have become drunk.” More to the point, “philosophizing is a function of understanding, of logical thinking, and Nazism stands against it like a deadly enemy.” He notes that “the jargon of the Third Reich sentimentalizes; that is always suspect.” The parallels that we see today on the right in the U.S., France, the Netherlands, Germany, and other nations today are inescapable.
Taken together, all these Americanisms helped support the fanaticism Nazis craved and demanded of their followers.LTI was also “a language of the jails” in that people used words with hidden meanings and code words to help them survive.
Keine Überraschung, aber dennoch erschreckend, ist die Aktualität von Klemperers Beobachtungen - es findet sich heute viel Analoges zur LTI: „Sprache des Siegers… man spricht sie nicht ungestraft, man atmet sie ein und lebt ihr nach.“ Interessant war die Lektüre von Klemperer auch in Kombination mit der französischen Sprachphilosophie, im Besonderen mit Derrida.
Vor diesem Hintergrund ist folgende Feststellung Klemperers äußerst ineressant:„Die absolute Herrschaft, die das Sprachgesetz der winzigen Gruppe, ja des einen Mannes [Goebbels] ausübte, erstreckte sich über den gesamten deutschen Sprachraum mit um so entschiedenerer Wirksamkeit, als die LTI keinen Unterschied zwischen gesprochener und geschriebener Sprache kannte.
This book is what happens when a Jewish philologist takes up a project to keep from going insane under Nazi rule. It is  amazing .Klemperer was a Jew married to an "Aryan" woman who refused to give him up. So he spent the years of the Third Reich in Dresden, working in a factory instead of a university, living in a "Jews' House," being harassed by the Gestapo, forbidden to read any books written by Aryans. . . and to keep himself sane, he started what today we would call #LTI: notes in his diary
So he spent the years of the Third Reich in Dresden, working in a factory instead of a university, living in a "Jews' House," being harassed by the Gestapo, forbidden to read any books written by Aryans.
His observations about language always lead back to the society he's living in, the oppression he's suffering under, the way ordinary Germans behaved (along a sliding spectrum of anti-Semitism), the way the Gestapo thugs behaved, the character of Goebbels as revealed in his speeches .
I admit I'm not into philology -- okay, I had to look up the word in the dictionary -- and I only read the book because Klemperer kept talking about it in his diaries.
So they compliment each other, although they can and do stand on their own as well.I was intrigued, sometimes fascinated, by Klemperer's observations of how language evolved under Nazism.
I also think that if I applied his methods of observation to the media and conversation in my country, I would probably learn some disquieting things.I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in language, the Holocaust or World War II.
I remember reading notes for the LTI in the diaries, and only just now got around to buying it.
'Does a bourgeois intellectual understand the first thing about the people' he writes in his diaries."Hello Fox News.Our right wing is not the Nazi party (I hate when the left or the right throw out this label).
But our right wing does share this: an understanding of how to manipulate language (liberal=anti-american; intellectual=elitist) to its benefit.
"Un'epoca si esprime attraverso il suo linguaggio. (...) Le parole possono essere come minime dosi di arsenico: ingerite senza saperlo sembrano non avere alcun effetto, ma dopo qualche tempo ecco rivelarsi l'effetto tossico. Se per un tempo sufficientemente lungo al posto di eroico e virtuoso si dice "fanatico", alla fine si crederà veramente che un fanatico sia un eroe pieno di virtù e che non possa esserci un eroe senza fanatismo". Un libro illuminante e prezioso.
Interesantísimo conocimiento el de este libro.
Klemperer expone claramente el potente arma que les supone a los regímenes el lenguaje, la manipulación y la apropiación del mismo.
Un libro básico para los amantes del período de la 2GM y del lenguaje y el conocimiento.
📝 "Muchas palabras del habla nazi deberían ser enterradas por mucho tiempo — algunas para siempre — en una fosa común" 📝 "El lenguaje no sólo crea y piensa por mí, sino que guía a la vez mis emociones, dirige mi personalidad psíquica, tanto más cuanto mayores son la naturalidad y la inconsciencia con que me entrego a él".

Enfim, este livro tem uma unidade muito tênue, e não é para qualquer um.P.S.: Li em uma das inúmeras resenhas elogiosas ao livro que ele seria uma obra para releitura por consulta, haja vista que não há muita necessidade de obedecer à ordem dos capítulos.
Realmente, parece-me que numa releitura dos capítulos que eu achei mais interessantes a obra poderia crescer na minha estima.
Все это время он, филолог, вел дневниковые записи о своей жизни и о жизни Германии такой, как он (учитывая ограниченный доступ к информации) ее видел, но не в последнюю очередь - о том, как менялся немецкий язык под воздействием тотального контроля и тотальной пропаганды нацистов.
К сожалению, этим автор не ограничивается, и делится своими соображениями касательно величия и просветительской миссии Советского Союза (очевидно ошибочными) и касательно того, что истоки нацистского антисемитизма лежат в том числе и в сионистском движении, которое, по словам автора, еще и схоже в некоторых чертах, с нацизмом.
Мне все эти рассуждения кажутся в корне ошибочными, более того, возможно, мотивированными политическими пристрастиями автора, вступившего после войны в коммунистическую партию ГДР.
But also he was Jewish, and for various reasons was not incarcerated at any point on account of his ethnicity, so he was able to observe for the duration of the Reich how German people used language in everyday life, from the perspective of someone who did not share and did not want to share the Nazis’ way of looking at and thinking about the world.
Original review on Tabula Rasa  Klemperer dedicates this book to his wife, and the crisp dedication ascertains the tone of the book - sincere, heartfelt, with the humourless smile of a survivor. He starts with the word heroic and its nazifierte meaning, how for a whole generation of Germans heroism wears a soldier's uniform. The LTI, as Klemperer calls it, breeds military-worship. Heavily romanticized words like heldenhaft (valient) and kämpferisch (gladiatorial) replace the more accurate and
Over the following chapters, The Jewish War, The Jewish Spectacles and The language of the victor, Klemperer describes with growing despair how the LTI enters the speech of those who on the face of it don't support the Nazis and even the Jews, how no one escapes the constant venom that has no antidote."In the evening I was on air raid protection duty; the route to the Aryan control room passed just a couple of metres from my seat.
The next morning she came up to me and said in a kind tone, 'Forgive me for saying "Heil Hitler" yesterday; I was in a hurry and I mistook you for someone I was supposed to greet in that way.' None of them were Nazis, but they were all poisoned."Kemperer calls the Nazified German a language of faith.
Fascinující důkaz toho, že jazyk je stejně nebezpečná zbraň jako kulomet....Na výšce jsem jezdil k Andělovi do jediného knihkupectví, kde Jazyk Třetí říše měli a četl ho po kapitolách. Na koupi jsem neměl a knížky jsem v tu dobu už nekradl. A když už jsem peníze měl, byly poznámky filologovy beznadějně rozprodané. Patnáct let mi trvalo, než jsem se k nim konečně dostal...
Un intelectual que analiza la lengua de la bestia, una víctima que disecciona la lengua del verdugo y gracias a eso mantiene la cordura.Victor Klemperer sobrevivió a la persecución gracias al hecho de estar casado con una mujer "aria" y aunque los dos sufrieron las sevicias y vejaciones del régimen nazi, perdieron su trabajo, tuvieron que trasladarse a una "casa de judíos", vieron como sus correligionarios acaban en campos de concentración (y recibieron urnas con sus cenizas a vuelta de correo...), se mantuvieron unidos y ganaron la guerra.El análisis de la contaminación de la lengua alemana por la ideología nazi es absolutamente brillante y, curiosamente, completamente objetivo.
Words can be like small doses of arsenic - they become effective after time. Klemperer's book LTI (lingua tertii imperii) is a book about language in the Third Reich. He calls it 'Notebook of a philologist'. Here he records in great and fascinating detail how the Nazis changed German language to a language of the Third Reich, serving their sinister aim to discredit and destroy the Jewish community by building and furthering antisemitism through subtle changes in everyday language.
voor germanisten en geïnteresseerden in de recente geschiedenis een absolute must. korte hoofdstukken die de verschillende aspecten van de LTI, de taal van het Derde Rijk, belichten en illustreren met de persoonlijke ervaringen van één van de weinige prominente Duitsers van joodse origine die de oorlog in Duitsland zelf overleefde. Je gebruikt het woord 'fanatiek' nooit meer zomaar...
One of the best books I've read this year. I'll return with a review a little later when the dust from Klemperers explosive material has settled.
I especially didn't like how the author was always mentioning a thousand french philosophers and writers that I don't know shit about (I had to read it for class and it didn't have anything to do with that), and how he was just talking shit about absolutely everyone, even speaking ill of the people who were living with him by force (by the nazis).It promises an analysis of the changes in the German language that the nazi regime supposed and it really is just the experience of a Jewish person in that system.
Lejos de ese análisis, lo único que hace el autor es comentar diferentes anécdotas de su vida durante dicha época.
Sólo en algunos capítulos el autor hace un análisis interesante de las expresiones utilizadas.Vale la pena comparar el lenguaje que se empleaba en aquella época con el que utilizan a día de hoy los partidos de carácter populista y/o nacionalista, pues las semejanzas son notorias.Probablemente merezca la pena leer el libro en su versión original, pues con la traducción se pierde parte de la información.Si bien es cierto que es una obra difícil de traducir, ya que se emplean términos complejos, específicos y antiguos y dado que el castellano no dispone de tantas palabras con significados concretos como la lengua germana, en varias partes del libro se encuentran traducciones deficientes que parecen sacadas de Google Translate.
Una maravilla, sobre todo porque no es tanto un ensayo técnico sino una colección de observaciones, 
En meget vigtig og detaljeret gennemgang af sproget under det tredje rige. Noterne fra oversætter Henning Vangsgaard er blændende baggrundsviden og bidrager i høj grad til dybden, hvor ens egne referencer kommer til kort. Kemperer fortæller skræmmende konkret, hvordan sprogbrugen - helt ned til tegnsætning og stavelser - medvirker til at nedgøre og undertrykke visse folk. Desværre er problematikken lige så aktuel i dag som dengang. Dette er nok det nærmeste, man kan komme lettilgængelighed inden for filologisk dybde. Derfor appellerer den bredt uden kompromiser. Jeg er mere end fan: Det er et mesterværk.
Ein Muss für jeden, der sich mit den Nationalsozialisten auseinandersetzt. Die Analyse der nationalsozialistischen Sprache ist gespickt mit unzähligen Anekdoten aus Klemperers persönlichen Leben und gibt Einblick in das Leben eines jüdischen Universitätsprofessors.
An illuminating study of the language that characterized the Third Reich. At the same time, it is an affective portrait of the suffering and tragic moments experienced by the author under the regime. The lessons are all too applicable to present times.
Now that fascism is on the rise again, we need to go back to the language that marked its ascendancy in Germay and Klemperer's notes are fundamental in the task of identifying the main characteristics of this language.
Un libro muy útil y educativo sobre cómo se vivió el nazismo desde dentro. Su defecto, si alguno tiene, es que es muy fragmentario, porque son los diarios y pensamientos, apenas organizados, del autor.
Such a good book. Lots to think about, but very readable. Scary and sad, but the careful delineation of the changes in language is really interesting.
Learn how the Third Reich misused the German language for its cause (and check whether you see any patterns repeating nowadays!)"Ewige Wachsamkeit ist der Preis der Freiheit!"
