https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5267365-don-t-judge-a-girl-by-her-cover
''Sometimes people run... to see if you'll come after them.'' In book one, we see the girls opening themselves to the outside world.In book two, we see the girls opening their hearts.In this book, we see the girls opening their eyes to face danger.Things are getting serious.When someone tries to kidnap Macey, a fellow spy student at the Gallagher Academy, everything changes for the Gallagher girls.The girls are growing up. They’re becoming more mature and more focused. It can easily be said tha
In book one, we see the girls opening themselves to the outside world.In book two, we see the girls opening their hearts.In this book, we see the girls opening their eyes to face danger.Things are getting serious.When someone tries to kidnap Macey, a fellow spy student at the Gallagher Academy, everything changes for the Gallagher girls.The girls are growing up.
It can easily be said that this whole series is a coming-of-age story, among many other things.It’s not one of my favourite series because it’s interesting.
Are we the people we were always meant to be?They make us believe that we, too, could make a change in this world.
I fail to see the point of this book???
It could honestly be condensed down to 30 pages and added as an excerpt in another book.
I enjoyed how friendship seemed to be the dominating theme of this book but the lingering love interests is pissing me off bc **love triangle**The humour has not picked up nor has the writing.
Ally Carter is a great writer and this book just proves it. She weaves in the new mysteries and includes some old ones too, just to tie all of the books together. Once it comes down to the final showdown, I wouldn't be surprised to see all of the characters (spies or not) included in the battle. This series is fantastic, and I definitely recomend this book
REREAD: July 27, 2015I WAS INNOCENT ONCE.Initial Read: January 22, 2015I ship Solomon with Abby a lot.and I also ship Macey and Preston. That's the only update, I could ever give you.
Regardless of what Solomon and Mom say, if they honestly knew pretty much nothing more than Cammie all that time, then they're pretty sorry-ass spies and not really in a position to be protecting her, I'd think, especially considering that the girl has a huge habit of sneaking out of the school, on multiple occasions, and everyone knows it.
Most likely they did know more but chose not to give the girls any clues for...what reasons, I can't think of any smart ones right now, considering the previous italicized and bolded segment above.
p l e a s e for the love of all that is holy and pureread these books

I hope I can wait for this book to come out. I am sooooooooooo excited! Ally Carter is a great writer, and everyone should read the Gallagher Girls series.
“I thought about how there are two types of secrets: the kind you want to keep in, and the kind you don't dare to let out.”  Preston is so pure and wholesome and I love him so much.Zach is so shady and mysterious all the dang time, but I still love him.Aunt Abby is everything I aspire to be.
So I definitely wasn't disappointed with Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover.The plot gets more interesting and it definitely has more action.
I mean, a kidnapping attempt on the daughter of the governor, soon-to-be, VP of the US?
And not only is there an kidnapping attempt, who are the people behind it?
And who exactly are they trying to kidnap?The characters are definitely more well-defined.
Cammie seems to be a lot more mature in this novel and her relationship with Zach is more confusing as ever which only adds an element of mystery and suspense to Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover.
Não estava nada nos meus planos ler esta série agora mas estou meio que viciada!"Quem vê caras não vê espiões" teve o papel difícil de começar a grande estória que é desenvolvida até ao final do último livro.
Também são introduzidas novas personagens como o Preston que aqui mesmo não tendo grande relevância, certamente tem o seu destaque nos últimos livros da série.
É engraçado como a autora consegue explorar todas as personagens e desenvolvê-las ao ponto de a sua presença na série é linear e não irregular.
These books are seriously getting better and better. The characters are as kickass and amazing as always and the overall plot is so intriguing. I have so many questions and I can't wait to see how it all pans out. This one was certainly a lot darker than the first few and it was perfect. Seriously my favourite so far.
Real Rating: 4.5 starsI really like this one better than the other books!
Really loved this book in the series, but THAT CLIFFHANGER THO.Series predictions (read at your own risk) (although I am completely guessing here and you're probably fine just reading them) (also, if you've read farther than me, please DO NOT comment below and spoil things ;) ) (okay, I'm done):(view spoiler)[Cammie might actually be a descendant of Gillian Gallagher ON HER DAD'S SIDE.
Or the people are seeking her for revenge because of something that her mom or dad or Aunt Abby did.
(This last one may not be serious.) (hide spoiler)]
After an incident on the campaign trail when Cammie and Macey barely manage to escape an attack on their lives, a new operative is brought to Gallagher Girls Academy to watch out for Macey.
And why does Cammie keep seeing Zach in strange places?
Does he still like her or was their kiss in book 2 a one-time thing?I loved this book just as much as the first two, I'd Tell You I Love You But Then I'd Have to Kill You and Cross My Heart and Hope to Spy. I highly recommend this series for middle and high school students.
Ally Carter writes books that are fun to read; I can't wait for book 4 in the Gallagher Girls series!
Wow, these books are truly amazing, I never get bored because there's always something happening and a lot to figure out.
To be honest, most of the times I have no idea of what is about to happen and that's why I find it so interesting.This particular book was so OMG, I'm still shocked and I really need to read the next one to know the truth.
They're also really cute because he's different with her, it's like he's got a heart after all.All in all, it was a great book and I'm dying to read the next one!
Pretty good, pretty good. The plot is thickening. The writing was a tiny bit better, but still confusing at some parts. Less romance than the first two, but there was a kiss or two, many mentions of guys being hot and their hotness. Language was overall clean, with really only a 'wuss'. Aunt Abby was awesome, and I like that a bit more was said about Camnie's dad. I'm curious to see what will happen next, so I will be reading the next book in the series. ;)
I forget how darn, short these books are - only 260 pages! Definitely an improvement from the second book. ^_^
3.5 stars! I really like the progression of this series.
If you know that someone prone to sneaking out is a target, maybe informing her would be better than relying on vague "this is dangerous!" speeches and hoping for the best? This book is ridiculous, but Preston makes me laugh. Abby's a little over-the-top here, but Zach and Mr. Solomon and Rachel Morgan are great.
Who doesn't like cool girls with spy-abilities who save the world and know how to kill someone with uncooked spaghetti?
Cammie/Liz/Macey/Bex are the best friendship quartet I've ever read!
Macey is  nearly  the mean girl, but she proves she's totally not in this book.
Cammie my top favourite, maybe because she's writing.
I love Cammie's voice.
I love seeing the world like she does.
Also: I don't like Zach.
I agree with Cammie: he's not in love with her.
Maybe spies should be all secretive, but I think a little more communication would help save the world.
I do  like  this series.
The Gallagher Girls series is one of those things, though, where I am constantly made aware of the fact that I am absolutely not the target audience.
I just feel like, even with that fact acknowledged, Don't Judge a Girl by Her Cover is just bad.I get it.
That said, these books have been surprisingly slow reads despite being 250 or so pages and also about spies.I guess the problem is there's very little spying.
I hated it in Wheel of Time and I hate it here.Like I said, though, I am obviously not the target, and I'm glad that these books make other people so happy!
This review is also posted on my blog, In The Good Books.When Cammie visits her roommate and friend, Macey, in Boston, where her father's being nominated for vice president, she expects an exciting end to summer break.
Excitement she gets, when she and Macey find themselves in a kidnapper's plot.Luckily, escaping is just one the things they do best, as students of the Gallagher Academy For Exceptional Young Women - a spy school in disguise.
But soon they find out that it isn't over yet, and as more attempts are made, they wonder if Macey was the real target.Like the Gallagher Girls book before it, Don't Judge A Girl By Her Cover was fast-faced and fun to read.
A change of scenery for the Assets and an addition of new Assets (particularly Abigail Morgan and Preston Winters) has brought a more serious and dangerous vibe on the mission.
Main target in this mission was Asset McHenry (that the Operative managed to understand better in Phase 3 and would like to see her with Asset Winters).Asset Goode was sadly MIA for most of the phase which resulted in the disappointment of both the Operative and Asset Morgan.Additional input: none.Proceed to Phase 4.
These books.
I am in love with these books.
There were some scenes that even made me teary eyed.
And the last few chapters were crazy.I loved how this was mostly centered around Macey since there wasn't much of her in the previous book.
I loved her!!
The dynamic of the friendships between the Gallagher Girls (mostly between Cammie, Bex, Liz and Macey) is something I adore about this Series.
And also the relationship between Cammie and Rachel (Mother/daughter) is something I'm looking forward to in the next books.
I hope to get more scene with Zach in the next books!
It was okay. I still liked the first one the best. They're not brilliant or particularly well-written, but these books are fun to read. They're the kind of book you can read in an hour or so, and be like, "Yay, that was shallow and fun." But that's about it. :P I liked this one … except I always feel like these books are too short. Plus they make me a little angry. I keep waiting for something really bad to happen – but for books about spies, there's not much conflict/death/etc. Fine, I know they're chick lit. But still.
Looks like things are finally looking up for Cammie Morgan.And I mean that but I don't, because Cammie's life is slowly becoming a clusterfucks of whodunit, and I love it.That's right.Ally Carter is starting to tighten the ribbons on the present that is the Gallagher Girls series, and I can't wait for the bow to finally be tied.Plots are coming together, characters are appearing into new light, and secrets are starting to be unearthed.Plus Zach...what a dream boat. UuU
give me the next book NoW!!!11! (pls)
THIS ONE'S MY FAVORITE SO FAR!!!! i love preston i loved the action and the mystery! but like when do we get to know about zach im tired of his secrets
I really missed the Buffy the Vampire Slayer refetences in this one.
