https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/525818.Alice_Adams
cross-posted at http://themocentricuniverse.blogspot....i wished after reading alice adams that my younger self had discovered it, ideally the version of me who was besotted with pride & prejudice and identified with the impudent, winsome miss elizabeth bennet.
alice adams lives in an age between me and elizabeth bennet.
and as we know, two attractive young people sitting under the stars and talking stuff and nonsense can't help but be romantical.*i won't relate any more of the plot turns in alice adams -- there is certainly more to the novel that readers should discover for themselves.
Winner of the 1922 Pulitzer Prize, this satire of social manners and class climbing tells of the Adams family, a middle-class working couple with two late-teen or twenty-something children, Alice and Walter.
Tarkington masterfully turns Alice from an unappealing social climber to a very admirable, self-assured woman, and does not hand out an artificial happy ending.
So maybe 3.5 stars but rounded up because of the plot rather than the writing or the characters.The Adams family, with only 1 ‘d’ so no Lurch the butler or sword play, had been running with the upper class if only the upper class as it existed in a small mid-western industrial location.
His daughter is a nice girl, but has become adept at the little lies and self-delusions that allow her to push herself into that social class wherein she hopes to land a husband.
That is where his plotting lifts this book to that fourth star.

The character of Alice Adams could have been one-dimensional--and honestly I made the mistake of judging her as just that in the first few pages--but Tarkington slowly unfurls her complex, and sometimes sympathetic, personality in such a way that I found myself actually liking her.
Surely Tarkington had MacBeth in mind when writing Alice Adams.
The racist perspectives were difficult too, but I honestly found the hypocrisy fitting, in the way the characters treated African Americans and how they lamented supposedly being treated by the upper classes.
But again, this was a weak novel, the mother character is insufferable, the anti-heroine is pretty nearly insufferable, and Mr. Tarkington is very, very bad at writing dialogue.
There was one strong scene, which was not only much higher in quality than the rest of the book, but also better than Booth Tarkington's writing in general.
I deduce that it was directly ripped off from The Age of Innocence, where there is a strikingly similar scene executed with infinitely more finesse, and which was published with great fanfare two years before this.
Some reviewers have removed stars on "Alice Adams" because of racist remarks and depiction of African Americans.
For me, the book didn't seem Pulitzer- or 5-star-worthy because the moral was driven home too forcefully.
I also think Arthur Russell's character was like a cardboard cutout, but that may have been intentional as I reflect further.
With that said, Booth Tarkington is an author that is somewhat overlooked today despite the genius of "The Magnificent Ambersons" and flashes throughout "Alice Adams" and is worth reading.
Also, the romance between Alice and Arthur is tenuous versus true love between Lizzie and Mr. Darcy.
I loved Alice.
She is a heroine to be remembered.
The ending of the book was so powerful.
I admired Alice's courage and her willingness to face reality, take responsibility for her life and move forward.
Booth Tarkington examined his characters choices and the ethical consequences.
He exposes the shallowness of the well to do when they think their money, clothes, business success make them better than others less fortunate.
He also reveals a desperation in those trying to climb the ladder to acceptance.
Life is hard and I believe Alice eventually faced this reality and took accountibility for her life.
This was on my list of Pulitzer Prize winners and I never read anything by Booth Tarkington before. I liked it, and found it much like one of those 1950s movies. It is an interesting reflection of its times, and certainly shows that mother doesn't always know what's best.

By the middle of this same century, unions and government had affected remarkable changes in the structure of society: the unskilled laborer was largely able to achieve an equitable share of comfort and security for his family and the wealthy were (somehow) still wealthy.Alice Adams is a novel that checks in on the middle class transformation as it existed in the 1920s.
Due to her father’s tireless work and servitude to a wealthy store owner, Alice Adams feels her potential to achieve upper class acceptance.
And these same perceptions and efforts work to keep the people of the upper class in-step with these traditions.Alice provides a point of light during this struggle.
I could imagine Alice living in modern times and trying to make her life come out right exactly in the same ways Alice did then, although the customs of dating/relationships have were much more constrained than they are today.Alice's family hasn't kept up successfully or financially with the better families in their town, families whose daughters were once her friends but she's slowly being dropped by them and all the young men as her family's reduced circumstances become more obvious.
Certainly dated in social and racial terms, but a good picture of progress in a young woman’s path to maturity.
Alice Adams is a morality tale about a socially ambitious young woman and her family in a Midwestern city.
The mother is convinced that money and money alone will make the difference and constantly badgers the father to do better.[return][return]Alice pours nearly all her energy into making a good  catch .
[return][return]The book has a double climax: a dinner party given by the mother for Alice s young man and the outcome of the father s business enterprise.
Sometimes understanding the author adds more depth to the story, and sometimes is doesn’t.Booth Tarkington won a couple of major awards for his work.
I haven’t seen a lot of interest in Booth Tarkington’s works compared to other authors of the same period.
I think the reason that Booth Tarkington may be a little ignored today is because the issues of middle class and lower middle class are not that dramatic and therefore don’t draw our attention as much as other times and events.
I imagine I will read more of Booth Tarkington, but for the reasons stated I am drawn more strongly to other authors.
F. Scott Fitzgerald wrote of Booth Tarkington: "It is a pity that the man who writes better prose than any other living American was brought up in a generation that considered it a crime to tell the truth" (1922 review of “Gentle Julia”).
I cannot fully critique Fitzgerald's assessment, however I find it interesting that the novel "Alice Adams" is all about telling the truth.
The theme of this novel is about the desire of those lower in (white) society trying to be something they are not, in other words: social climbers.
Scott Fitzgerald’s indictment that Tarkington avoided telling the truth about society's darker side via his novels.
When I started listening to this book, my mother was alive and by the time I finished the book my mother had died.
Especially one that says: I loved the way this book started and progressed and I was very disappointed by the ending which seemed to leave too many story arcs unfinished.
I wanted more story and I wanted a more fully fleshed out ending.
At the same time, I understand what Tarkington was trying to achieve and what he wanted for Alice and I accept his version of events even if I don't think I really like them.
I will not soon forget this book.
I hated the movie with the burning passion of 999 burning suns. Kate or no Kate. Decided to see if the book was any better, and it really was not. Few things are more annoying to me than people who pretend to be something they are not, lying through their teeth, superficial, silly creatures. Mother was the worst offender: nagging, shallow, and... nagging. In the end it seemed that Alice got her act together, though I am not so sure about the mother. At any rate, this was a terribly irritating read.
It's not just happy families that are alike.
Unhappy families are all alike, too.
Pent-up resentments, lack of communication, unrealistic expectations: it's all masterfully dissected here in this painful portrait of a family in free fall.
Tarkington moves easily from descriptions of the coarseness of fast-growing midwestern towns to the inner feelings of a would-be debutante who is forced by circumstances to grow up, and he does both with a wickedly fine etching needle.
While I adore his Penrod series for the humor, I must take my hat off to Tarkington for his more serious novels.
He is an American master of the family saga.
This book won the Pulitzer Prize in 1922. I liked the writing style of Booth Tarkington. The story about the life of Alice Adams was a page turner and illustrated the things we all struggle with in life. Even though this book was written almost 100 years ago the story translates to current day. I give this book 5 stars.
Closer to 1.5 but yikes. No one seems to learn anything at the end, and everyone screwing over Virgil gets away with it, with the exception of the title character who (DUN DUN DUNNNNNN) has to go to business school?! I haven't even gotten to the gross African American stereotypes and racial slurs bandied about that either have too much or too little to do with the plot. Screw this book.
I felt every emotion of the protagonists. Beautifully written and deserving of the Pulitzer it earned.
She told me she could not read it because she knew it wouldn't end well.
Boy - you can tell almost immediately things will not turn out well for Alice.
Her main goal is to marry well, and that is never a good thing in an early 1900s book.
Alice is kind hearted and good spirited and you wish her well even though she makes so many mistakes.
The world was not her oyster.I read this book voraciously.
As an aside: Like most books from this era, it's racist, sexist, classist etc.
Obviously jarring to read works like this if you are not used to it.
If you're a fan of Sinclair Lewis or Willa Cather, I urge you to check out Booth Tarkington, if you haven't before.
Are there fans of Sinclair Lewis or Willa Cather?
It's as if all the characters, Alice, a young girl who, due to her poor financial status and desperate flirtation, finds herself in danger of becoming an old maid; Alice's father Virgil, sickly, old and past his prime at work and in life; and Alice's mother, a social-climbing Lady Macbeth, who pushes and manipulates her husband into "bettering" the family and almost leading them to ruin, are boarding a train headed to doom, and not one of them can stop it or see what lies ahead.
I'm definitely going to read The Magnificent Ambersons, Tarkington's other great work, and I may seek out some more.
Alice Adams in a young 20-something.
She (and her mother) desperately want her to land a good (read: wealthy and/or important) husband.
And Alice's father is a department head.
He's not a business owner, he's not wealthy.
They have had to scramble to put Alice out there, meanwhile they have given her younger brother none of this and he is just going to take it.So, she is not a desirable wife for the "quality" husband she wants.
In the end, mother and daughter (and father) see what must be done and start to settle into their proper places within society.Ugh.
I have conquered number four on the Pulitzer list!Alice Adams is certainly dated, particularly surrounding the language and characterization of the peripheral African American characters in the book.
The title character is a woman on the cusp of the upper class; her father has toiled away in a job with little prospects for significant advancement while his nagging wife reminds him constantly about the material comforts they owe Alice in order for her to land a husband.
Sound familiar?
It certainly is reminiscent of the literature that marks the dawn of women's suffrage, but it's not nearly as well constructed or fluently written as some of the prominent fiction that is more widely read and taught.
Booth Tarkington's novel was a marvelous new take on women's liberties, especially for being published in the 1920s.
Alice Adams makes for a remarkable heroine who, although imperfect, makes the brightest of any moment when she is given an opportunity.
A character who has known the glow of attentions and high society makes the best of her opportunity to deal with a family stricken with ill fortune and ill judgement.
The resolution was empowering- leaving Alice to step forward into her new future without shedding the bonds of family- even when they present the most of the challenges that stopped her from getting ahead in society.
Tarkington' versatility is on full display in this Pulitzer winning novel. It's entirely different from his other great work, the Magnificent Ambersons. This work explores the social dynamics that continue to typify American life into the 21st-century. Alice Adams is a more explicitly religious novel than Tarkington other works. What it lacks subtlety it makes up for in moral and social clarity. Another transcendently marvelous work but one of the United States' greatest and perhaps most underappreciated novelists.
There are racially insensitive parts of this book.It's a fun read despite that, and actually reminds me quite a bit of Custom of the Country.
Social climbers are shamed.It's funny looking back, I'm realizing how often the author tells us what a likeable character Alice Adams is.
And we don't often actually see how likeable she is.
The last several books I've read seem to have the same goal: to secure a husband.
The book often includes or alludes to the misery that might accompany the husband you've "secured."I guess I like the simplicity of the husband-search plot, because then there's nothing to figure out except the characters themselves.
As far as the story and the quality of writing goes, the book would probably be a three or a four.
It is the horribly racist depiction of blacks that take this book down to one or two stars.
I know, 'product of its time,' yada yada yada, but some of the paragraphs and the particular portrayal of a temp maid, Gertrude, left an extremely bitter taste in my mouth that I could not get rid of, no matter how much hand waving could be applied.
'Product of its time' may explain past racist portrayals, but it does not excuse them.
