https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11819140-the-street
If only it wasn't this ridiculous.One of the weakest (and worst) stories I've read so far; one of those that almost makes you embarrassed for reading them.
It starts with the founding of the titular place and there he conveniently forgets the previous inhabitants.
The story goes on how the place was wonderful but then those Others came and ruined it.
"In these writings the people were urged to tear down the laws and virtues that our fathers had exalted; to stamp out the soul of the old America - the soul that was bequeathed through a thousand and a half years of Anglo-Saxon freedom, justice, and moderation." There was some kind of plot to destroy 'the Western Land' (...), but the souls of the old houses the Others occupied killed them all and saved the day.
A street in a small American town eats itself rather than house Russian anarchists. Completely corny, patently racist, and no inconceivable monsters anywhere. Lovecraft at his worst.
A tad too historic and dull for my liking.
This one would fit nicely on Donald Trump's bookshelf, assuming he was a reader of books.This really isn't a horror story. Unless you believe that the streets built by white Anglo-Saxons are slowly being destroyed by immigrants, who are described with words like sinister, squalid, degenerate, noisome, and swart.We know that Lovecraft was a racist, xenophobe, and anti-semite. But where usually those characteristics simmer under the surface in his work, in this story they take center stage.It's worth one star on its own, but more stars as a revealing portrait of the dark side of a popular and influential writer.
The best Lovecraft story I have read so far. Comparing to what is going on in America right now, this becomes even more poignant. (As a side note, I was not surprised, in scrolling down, to notice how offensive most people found this admittedly racist, anti-immigrant tale. Fucking that's why I liked it though ... I am a "racist, sexist, xenophobic, transphobic, islamophobic right wing piece of shit" as well.
Sooooo, yeah, this story is pretty racist. There's a concept there that's intriguing, hidden below it all, the only reason I gave it two stars, but it's really hard to get past all the heightened nationalistic paranoia.
Basically just a long rant oozing with xenophobia. And that’s it. Nothing enjoyable about it, not even in an ironic sense unfortunately.

Street gets built up by Anglo-Saxons making it good. Then it degenerates due to swarthy people, and then collapses in ruin to fend off the evil Russian "terrorists". What a dull, crappy story. Lovecraft at his worst.
Вулиця є метонімією американського суспільства. Вона починалася як стежка перших поселенців. З часом вона набула краси колоніальної Америки - на ній з'явились вишукані маєтки і квітучі сади. Мешканці Вулиці пішли на війну, повернулися, і нові прапори замайоріли над вікнами. Дух свободи запанував на Вулиці. Мешканців на ній ставало дедалі більше, проте не всі вони любили Вулицю. Засмаглі чоловіки з підступним поглядом і дивним акцентом замишляли щось недобре. Над Вклицею зависла недобра атмосфера - насувалося щось жахливе, що назавжди змінить вигляд Вулиці.
Another erm, umm, hmm story. (view spoiler)[A patriotic Anglo-Saxon street built by the righteous slayers of Indians watches itself fall into the hands of swarthy ethnic men over the course of two centuries and sacrifices itself to save America. (hide spoiler)] Serious race and class problems with this, and not a good story.(Moving 2015 review to separate work to make room under collection for review, September 2017.)
Listening to this on audio and it's no wonder I've forgotten having read it years ago. Considering the time he lived and that he seemed to dislike most human interaction in general I try not to judge Lovecraft to hard on his personal views but it's his works like this that make that nearly impossible.
I thought that the story behind the street was really good. I loved the personification that is given to the street. I wish that the people who invaded and the events that took place/where were more specific.
Sorry Lovecraft, this sucked. Not only was my audiobook read by an English Hank Hill, but the content was boring and slightly racist. Though this was a short short story, it wasn't short enough. Maybe next time buddy
As much as I love Lovecraft's horror, and even some of his dream cycle stories, his views on on race and societies outside of his norm are simply repugnant. "The Street," unfortunately, fits into this racist worldview of his. DNF at 10%.
Sé que hay muchas cosas que se me escaparon de esta alegoría.
H.P. Lovecraft - La calle (1920)
6/10
No sabría por donde empezar..
Reseña muy pronto...
It's the epic history and soul of a street. Not one of his best, but not terrible either.
READ AT OWN RISK.The Street is a well-written short story with an interesting concept.
The final act of the story, the street rising up and destroying all the buildings and inhabitants, occurs while it is occupied by whites.
The street tolerated decline and being inhabited by "swarthy" types and lower class whites, but what caused it to act was the destructive ideas and plans of revolutionary anarchists/marxists.
So, a charge of "anti-marxist" is valid, but a charge of "racist" is hyperventilation.As you can read for yourself, many of the reviews have reviewed HPL and not the work.
Eh, I don't know much about Lovecraft's person.
But I've seen thematic xenophobia throughout his stories.
I figured it was just another device for emotive effectiveness.
However, it seems the man was actually quite unwelcoming to foreigners in general.
I can see the anti-establishment, and anarchistic attacks during that period being portrayed in the negative manner would be justified; but to explicitly narrate that the immigration boom during that period was the antecedent to those attacks is incredibly ignorant; and frankly, quite lazy.
Further on, this is a simple story so it would never set itself up with the complexities of real normative issues.
The man intentionally allowed this explicit realization.

Just when I think Lovecraft can't get anymore xenophobic I come across this short story.
While the story itself its beautifully written and I enjoy the idea of places and buildings have souls, I kept getting put off by the descriptions of heathens that have moved in and brought down The Street.
He briefly mentions that native americans who originally lived there before the proper people move in.(view spoiler)[Perhaps if the same street caused the destruction of all the "great colonizers" it would be just as romantic to the native americans as the ending of the story is to the narrator.
The first of Lovecraft's works that I found very disappointing - the start is good, he paints a vivid early history of America and the incumbent tribulations.However he soon veers of into blatantly racist and stereotypical caricatures of "swarthy" men, plotting against a great nation.It reads like a paranoid's treatise on immigration and I'm sure wouldn't be out of place in some current assessments of the social landscape, if you like wearing pointy white sheets as headwear.We'll leave this one behind and move on...
This is xenophobic if not flat out racist, patriotic, nationalistic romanticism. Still: I can see this and still enjoy the romaticism of the idea that a thing might have a soul and strike down a violent purpose that would harm the nation.Furthermore, I think this is very well written and presented.But one should remember what Wilde supposedly said about patriotism: it is the virtue of the vicious. Could not agree more. Nonetheless: 4 stars for this tale. I simply enjoyed it.
This is the worst book Lovecraft has written up to 1920, possibly the worst ever. It's so racist and so poorly written. The sentences are so juvenile and oddly phrased that it's as if The Street is a mockery of Lovecraft's style, like he was making fun of himself. There is nothing wrong with that, except that the story goes nowhere. It's not dark or cosmic or even interesting, just a brief and racist description of a street. Do yourself a favor and skip this. I wish I had.
With everything going on in the world I found this story strange at first. By the end I had to look up the year Lovecraft died because it felt as if he had seen into the future to the present day and I must admit that for the first time after nearly two dozen of his books actually made me tingle with the possibility that the supernatural is hiding just behind some sealed door nearby.
An unusually patriotic and differently xenophobic Lovecraft short story, speaking out against U.S. Communist plotting and insurrection in the early half of the 20th century. It's nothing special, and its defense of Puritan morality is more than a little uncomfortable, but the story's twist has a certain satisfying brutality to it.
