https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1527934.Angelique_in_Barbary
This is the third book in a long series, and this review will be rather brief to avoid spoiling events from the prior novels, Angelique (Book 1) and Angélique and the King (Book 2).
At the end of book two, Angelique learned that her supposedly dead husband might not be so dead after all, and she's willing to risk everything, including the King's wrath to find him.
Despite the heavy police guard placed on her by the express command of Louis XIV, Angélique slips away, and her feminine charms come in quite handy when she needs to wheedle her way onto one of the King's vessels heading for Crete.
Sins of my youth -- I read this book when I was 12 with red ears... well still a pretty good trash read!
Uvek sam je smatrao dobrim društvom koje nas uvek prati.
Može li ljubav jedne žene biti toliko jaka da, nošena uzburkanim i opasnim vodama Sredozemnog mora dospije čak do Krete na kojoj je trgovina robljem svakodnevnica, a tajanstveni gusari ravnaju sudbinama čak i onih kojima se u visokom društvu svi klanjaju.I u ovom dijelu historijske sage autorica se nije odrekla svog običaja da stare, često sporedne likove, postavlja na nove pozornice, davajući priči dirljive zaokrete.
Barely ok, borderline why am I doing this to myself?Back when I was a teenager, it never would've even occurred to me to read this series; now, I've decided to 'marathon' it for the historical interest and to see how long I'd last.
Well, this one is where I throw the white flag for the moment.The first book instantly alarmed me with its persistent mentions of sexuality and sexual violence; it did not seem like a 'light' read to me at all.
Like, I eyeroll at de Peyrac whenever he speaks of love, but Philippe, I wanted to shoot dead personally.
Angelique in BarbarySergeanne Golon - 3rd in seriesThis book tells how beautiful, emerald-eyed Angelique, sets out in search of her first husband, Joffrey de Peyrac.
Although Angelique has lived many lives in the years since Joffrey was sentenced to death, she could never forget him and remembered as the gentlest and wisest of her lovers.
When the King reveals that Joffrey was spared execution and later outwitted his guards, she knows that no matter how inaccessible his hiding place, she will make every sacrifice to find him.
In the face of the King's jealous opposition, Angelique embarks on a voyage of discovery.

Just like the three before it, this fourth book in the Angelique series, was magnificent. It had every element of brilliant writing and I found myself utterly caught up. This book was absolutely unbelievable. I loved it! This is well beyond 5 stars!
With the first two books, I learned about being a strong woman despite hardship, and being true to yourself. This book opened up a whole new Arabian world, and made me go on used book searches for the next book.
I read the complete series of 13 books (theoretically it would be 14 in English, but vol.
1 & 2 are one volume in Germany, plus the last 3 books have not been translated into English) twice, but this volume is the one that I did enjoy the least.
I am simply not interested in sultans, serails and harems at all.
I prefer France or Quebec as a location.So this time while rereading the whole series, I will skip this volume.The first 9 books were great, but the last ones from vol.
Překvapení nastalo v okamžiku, kdy se opravdu začalo něco dít. Samozřejmě se mi nelíbilo, čím vším si musela Angelika projít a že zanechala děti v péči své sestry, která ji nesnášela. Po odsouzení jejího manžela se zhroutila, což je sando chápatelné, ale méně pak její činy. Nesouhlasila jsem plně s jejími rozhodnutími, ale koneckonců není na mě, abych určovala literární postavu někoho jiného. Tato kniha se mi líbila více než předchozí díl, ale také jsem si asi přivykla více na televizní komerční formu vyprávění tohot příběhu.
I read this series of "Angelique" books when I was 16-17 years old - I thought it was cool that they were translated from French. I liked the exotic settings (geographically and historically) and I liked the idea that she could get out of any situation and the passionate parts were just icing on the cake. At that time I had no idea what a bodice ripper novel was and probably wouldn't pick it up today. I rated as I would have when I read them.
Love the cover. Generally speaking not a big fan of the whole series, as in this series, Angelique the heroine, always "escapes her fate" just in the nick of time, and I find that all droll and boring. But the cover art is to die for. I'd have done it with Angelique in a silk harem outfit, about to fall off her, with a perfect shot of the Sultan behind her.
Like the other Angelique books, magnificent historical novels that take one to 17th century France and create a lifelong interest in this fascinating period of history. Five stars and more. In this book, Angelique is captured by pirates and becomes a slave in the harem of a tyrant. Exciting as all the other books by Sargeanne Gplon.
This was the best book ever. I fell in love with pirates with this book.
I read all these over 40 years ago and loved them.
The fourth book in the Angelique series. I read this in High school many years ago.
My first in a history, romance series -- I LOVED all of them and was sad when Serge died. The last book, by Anne, clearly showed what Serge added.
Less good than the previous two/three (Book 1&2 in first volume).
The story line is becoming more romance and far less history.
Oh man this book taught me so much about slavery and piracy in the 17th century!
