https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/21026.Every_Day_Gets_a_Little_Closer
Δεν έχω διαβάσει πάρα πολλά βιβλία ψυχοθεραπείας και επίσης αυτό που πιστεύω γι’ αυτά είναι ότι δε μπορείς να πεις σε κάποιον να, αυτό είναι το τέλειο βιβλίο ψυχανάλυσης για σένα γιατί πολύ απλά ο καθένας θα σου προτείνει και ένα διαφορετικό με βάση αυτό που μίλησε περισσότερο στη δική του ψυχοσύνθεση.
Δεδομένου ότι το ξεκίνησα πολύ διστακτικά αφού τελείωσα τον Νίτσε και για αρκετές μέρες το είχα αφήσει στην άκρη όταν το ξαναέπιασα μου δημιούργησε μια απίστευτη έκρηξη συναισθημάτων και προβληματισμού που για να είμαι ειλικρινής δεν το περίμενα και με εξέπληξε.

To be fair to Ginny, she writes early on that she doesn’t feel it pays to rehash the details of the sessions in her write-ups; Dr. Yalom was right there with her and, in her mind, he was the only one who would be reading these notes.
Ginny’s, unfortunately, did not teach me much about what it’s like to be a therapy client.Dr. Yalom's afterword was excellent, but I'm not sure it was worth slogging through the entire book to get to it.
Benim için ilginç bir kitaptı çünkü okurken kendi seanslarım hakkında bol bol düşündüm. Bir de Yalom'un kendine bu kadar açık olabilmesi inanılmaz geldi ama Ginny'nin ve herkesin ihtiyacı olan şeyin bu açıklık ve samimiyet olduğunu biliyorum. Yine de özellikle ruh sağlığı alanı dışındakilere Yalom'un terapilerini anlattığı diğer kitaplarını öneririm.
It is a strange relationship—the therapist knows the patient so well that perhaps no one else understands the patient better than the therapist, while the patient knows almost nothing about the therapist, and yet, a therapeutic relationship could not and should not become friendship.
In fact, we therapists never know if our patients like us or not, if our patients find therapy useful or not, if we are giving them what they need or not, we can only make educated guess.
I would say that we therapists are often delusional—we think we know what is best for our patients and we believe we understand what our patients experience because we make the agenda.
Το βιβλίο αυτό αποτελεί προϊόν ενός θεραπευτικού συμβολαίου ανάμεσα στον Ίρβιν Γιάλομ και μια κοπέλα, την Τζίννυ, στο οποίο συμφώνησαν να καταγράφουν χωριστά τις εντυπώσεις και τα συναισθήματα τους έπειτα από κάθε συνεδρία ψυχοθεραπείας.
Έτσι το βιβλίο αυτό διαπραγματεύεται τη σχέση που αναπτύσσεται ανάμεσα σε θεραπευτή και θεραπευόμενο και πως εξελίσσεται αυτή στην πάροδο του χρόνου.
Το προτείνω σε όποιον έχει την περιέργεια να δει πως λειτούργησε η ψυχοθεραπεία στην συγκεκριμένη περίπτωση και κυρίως στην σχέση που αναπτύχθηκε ανάμεσα στον θεραπευτή και το θεραπευόμενο και πως προσέγγιζε ο καθένας τους τη κάθε συνεδρία και τι συμπεράσματα έβγαζε από αυτήν.
کتاب ارزش خوانده شدن را دارد چون تجربه ای منحصربه فرد هم از دید درمانگر و هم درمان جو را پیش رو میگذارد.
یا ممکن است شما را وادار کند رفتاری اثربخش تر در روند درمان داشته باشید.شوربختانه ناچارم خواندن کتاب به زبان اصلی را توصیه کنم (که البته تقریبن همیشه نظرم همین است)؛ یا شکیبایی برای آمدن چاپ های بعدی و رفع اشکالات ترجمه.
چون خواندن چاپ اول، لذت خواندن کتاب را تا حد زیادی از من گرفت.درهرحال از این که این کتاب به من معرفی شد خوشحالم و چیزهای زیادی از آن آموختم.به قول جینی: “تقدیم به دکتر یالوم که به من آزادی گریه کردن، جرئتی برای پرواز و ده دلیل برای نمردن داد.”
The writing style is difficult in parts (I found Dr Yalom's reports often unnecessarily long-winded), and if I didn't relate so strongly to the client in this situation I doubt I would have enjoyed this book very much; as it is with therapy, so many things are repeated over and over again so that the frustration both participants felt becomes palpable to the reader, and not in a good way.For anyone interested in this book I'd recommend reading both forewords; if you can't relate to the problems described in them, don't bother.
Dr. Yalom is constantly mentioning what a good writer Ginny (the client) is, but I found her to be irritatingly vague and unfocused.Still, some aspects of the book are amusing.
It was created in California in the 70s and is full of references to encounter groups and esalen and the like.
And, like a lot of writing from that era, there is a preoccupation with gender roles -- they both cycle through questioning, defending, and being completely blind to the differing expectations and prescriptions around male and female behavior.
Ginny adında genç bir kadının terapi süreci. Irvin Yalom herkesin anlayacağı bir dilde kaleme almış terapileri. İşin güzel tarafı her seansın sonunda iki tarafın da düşüncelerini kaleme alması. Terapinin ilerleyişi bu sayede gözler önüne seriliyor.
definitely not a favorite, when compared to  Irvin Yalom's other works.
the thing that really unsettled me about the book was the sense that ginny was on a completely different page from yalom and that he was, in a sense, using her - in exchange for free sessions, she had to write these write-ups which he would later put together with his own.
probably my least favorite of yalom, but one of the best conceptual ideas for a book i've come across in a long time.
این کتاب بخش کامل از درمان خانمی حدودا سی ساله است که قبلا در کتاب های دیگر یالوم از او صحبت کرده بو
A must read for everyone who is interested in psychotherapy.
Kendi terapi seanslarımın bitişiyle bu kitabı bitirmem aynı döneme denk geldi. Özellikle de terapi sürecindeki birinin gözlerini açıyor resmen. Yalom'un başka başka kitaplarını okumak dileğiyle u - u
Öncelikle benim gibi sıradan insanların varoluş kaygıları ile nasıl yaşadıklarını kavrayabilirsem, Nietzsche’yi anlamaya biraz daha yaklaşacağıma inandım.
Bu sebeple temel olarak yazarın varoluşçu psikoterapinin esaslarını anlattığı “Varoluşçu Psikoterapi” isimli kitabını okudum.
Daha sonra yazarın “Bağışlanan Psikoterapi” isimli kitabı ile “şimdi ve burada” nın kahramanlarından biri olan psikoterapiste biraz daha yakından bakmaya karar verdim.
kitap olarak yazarın “Her Gün Biraz Daha Yakın” isimli kitabını okudum ve şunları düşündüm : Yalom her zamanki sıcaklığını, sevecenliğini ve zarafetini konuşturmuş.
Türkiye’de Yalom’un anlattığına benzer şeffaf ve özgün psikoterapi örneklerine rastlayabilirsem, çok şaşıracağımı düşündüm.Dr. Yalom’un yazdığı mektuplar benim için her zaman daha anlaşılabilir olurken, Ginny’in sadece birkaç mektubunu tamamen anladığımı söyleyebilirim.
Това е първата белетристично-документална творба на изтъкнатия съвременен психотерапевт и интелектуалец Ървин Д.
Ялом, създадена в съавторство с Джини Елкин.
Той й предлага споразумение: вместо заплащане по време на терапията двамата да описват собствените си впечатления от психоаналитичните сесии, споделяйки и съкровените си, неизговорени мисли и фантазии.
Как завършва този опит, това изпитание за тънкия лед на интимността между лекар и пациент, читателите ще имат удоволствието да научат сами.Ървин Д.
„Колибри“ издаде една от най-магнетичните му творби – „Когато Ницше плака“, както и „Дарът на терапията” - проницателно четиво, в което съвременният читател може да намери отговор на въпроса как да се справи с конфликтността и с болката.
hem yalom'da, hem de ginny'de varolan yazma ve benzetme becerisi ve ikisinin de samimiyeti sayesinde çok daha keyifli bir hale geliyor.özellikle yalom'un açıklığı insanı şaşırtıyor.
hem inişleri, hem çıkışları anlatması, hiçbir şeyden kaçmaması, kaçtıklarını da açıklaması, en sonunda yardımcı olup olmadığı kapısını okuyucuya bırakması, bu konuda iyimser yorumları olmasına rağmen net bir şey söylememesi çok etkileyici-ginny'nin geçmişini incelemiyor.
hasta olması gerekme, normal bir insanın geçmişi ile ilgili bir irdeleme başlatmak, onu mutlaka bazı alanlarda rahatsız etmeye, kurcalamaya başlayacaktır.ayrıca geçmişin deney alanı yoktur.
The portrayal of issues of transference and counter-transference from this dual perspective is similarly rich because as Yalom admits in a letter late in the book, he was maybe 'a little bit in love with Ginny' all along.I think it's true that Ginny's letters are less interesting than Yalom's, which are loving, instructive, and constantly questing.
But Yalom's desire to produce -- a cure, a literary work from Ginny -- and Ginny's inability to, are central issues being worked out in this particular therapy.
Given that, I think Ginny's sudden leaps in thought are a feature, not a bug, of this book.
This is a very strange book (I'm on a journey to read strange books).
I have found some of the writing difficult to digest and understand, but that only showed the honesty of the attempt.
This book is refreshingly honest, and that is why it is flawed.But I found myself somehow eager to finish the book and find out how it all ends despite the choppy journey.
It deeply moved me in a profound manner I can't quite understand, and gave me a space to reflect upon myself, and think about what is the meaning of a human self.
"Η σπασμένη αίσθηση του χθες συγκολλήθηκε. Ο πόνος μου είναι αιώνιος, το ίδιο κι η χαρά μου.(…)Όσες φορές κι αν κουλουριάστηκα,με ξετυλίξατε."Για πολλοστή φορά, ο ψυχοθεραπευτής αυτός-συγγραφέας-λογοτέχνης μου υπενθυμίζει σθεναρά και αμετάκλητα πως αξίζει η ήδη υπάρχουσα και καλλιεργημένη ελπίδα και πίστη μου ως προς την τρυφερή όψη της θεραπευτικής συνάντησης και των ψυχοθεραπευτικών διαισθητικών "εργαλείων", διότι πράγματι "η σχέση θεραπεύει."
Πολύ ενδιαφέρον και εποικοδομητικό βιβλίο!Το προτείνω σε όσους θέλουν να ψάξουν λίγο βαθύτερα μέσα τους και να κατανοήσουν τον εαυτό τους αλλά και τους άλλους.Κατάλληλο φυσικά όχι μόνο για όσους ασχολούνται με την ψυχική υγεία...
I really want to like this book.
I believe therapy works.
I believe Yalom is probably a good therapist.
I appreciated the insight into the therapeutic process from his perspective and the client's.
I just don't like the way he goes about things.
I find his existentialism theory as a rationalization for talking about himself during the sessions, and for him assuming a greater presence in the life of his client than he may actually have.
Yalom is Yalom, and I am sure being his client is a healing and enlightening experience, however, I felt uncomfortable often in this book with the way he went about the treatment.
A fascinating look into two people's experiences of the same therapy sessions. I particularly appreciated Irvin's description at the end of his therapeutic approach - he ties together his many and various interventions with an underlying philosophy. And his client (not much of a spoiler!) is better able to understand her own habitual thoughts and actions, and becomes able to change them. An interesting journey, sped up, through a course of therapy.
Terapi sürecimin başlangıcında bu kitapla tanışmıştım. Başlarda kasvetli atmosferi ve önyargılarım sebebiyle biraz uzak durduğum bu eser, okuma gayretini devam ettirdiğim günler boyunca terapistimle aramdaki mesafeyi daraltmamda yardımcı oldu. Yazın dili basit görünse ve okudukça merakınızın dozu artıyor olsa da gerilim eserin sonuna kadar sizi bırakmıyor. Terapi öncesi okunmasından ziyade terapi süresince okunmasını tavsiye ederim.
The basic idea is extraordinary: one story told by two (perspective). I expected so much more… it was boring most of the time and just wanted to finally get through it and finish the book… “Ahányszor csak összegömbölyödtem, maga mindig kigöngyölt. Dr. Y-nak, aki megadta a szabadságot, hogy sírjak, a svungot, hogy repüljek, és tíz érvet, hogy ne haljak meg.”
It took way longer for me to finish this book. I love reading Irvin, but this one after the second half, with repetitions, not going to somewhere, I mean the sessions. But I kept going, because it was real. I admire Irvin Yalom for opening his self totally and being only human. I believe this was the most that helped Ginny afterall. This is the best methodology of Irvin to me.
i really couldn't finish this book i liked the concept a lot, but the execution was a let-downespecially ginny's parts were so incoherent and i had a hard time tying together the two points of viewmaybe this made sense to the two people who were actually there on the sessions, but not to me, sorry
This book turned out to be a lot more difficult to read than I expected.Yalom's afterword is superb.
Abba kellett hagyjam sorry ez dögunalom, pedig a téma akár érdekes is lehetett volna. De a stilus ahogy meg van írva... Kösz de nem.
Τολμηρό εγχείρημα και εντυπωσιακά διαφωτιστικό.
