https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/306608.X_Men
One of the strongest X-Men stories ever This edition not only include the main story "Days of Future Past" but also several issues before and after of the story. This particular collected TPB contains "Uncanny X-Men" #138 - 143 and also the "X-Men" Annual #4. So, my rating is an overall average based on the sum of all individual ratings per story.Creative Team:Chris Claremont (Writer) & John Byrne (Illustrator), both co-plottersAlso: John Romita, Jr. (Illustrator) (in the Annual) ELEGY Unca
One of the most famous and celebrated stories of the X-Men titles, if not the best, or the only one able to compete against The Dark Phoenix saga, but taking in account that Days of Future Past was developed in only two comic book issues, that's something astonishing impressive!Those "good ol' days" where creative teams aren't mandated by the publishing house to extend any storyline to 6 issues at least thinking already in the marketing of the trade-paperback.
(Notice that here, Marvel needed to "fill up" the TPB edition with other issues to be to able to charge what they want for the TPB)1980: Kitty Pryde is 13 and a half years old, making her the youngest student ever included into the X-Men team so far.
Tip to Chris Claremont - when you’re using a visual medium like comic books, there’s no need for your characters to tell the reader every single thing they’re doing using the very limited space you have for dialogue.
Again, aside from a few complaints about dialogue, DOFP is one of the great stand-out X-Men tales I've read.The final story involves Christmas and while that’s all well and good in playing to my inner Christmas fanatic, it was in a tough spot having to follow the book’s title track.If you’re interested in brushing up on the original source material for Marvel’s upcoming X-Men big screen presentation, pick this book up and skip everything else inside.
Welcome to "Days of future past" arc from 1981 (which inspired 2013 epic movie version which surpassed all expectations) aaaaand four other totally unrelated stories!We pick up the story right after "Dark phoenix saga" and find ourselves reading over 25 years of X-men history in 20 pages.And we call him Giant Potato!Right after that painful chapter, Cyclopes takes an extended leave of absence and X-men adds a new member to their team: Kitty Pryde!In second story, X-men along with Benedic...uh..
Sure it is, Logan.And then comes the fourth and the most exciting story of this book, Days of future past!
It is a cool tale, and it is easy to see why so many writers have gone back to those issues for inspiration, and some have even added to the "Days of ..." mythology, which is, I suspect, precisely what Brian Singer is hoping to do with his monster-sized Days of Future Past X-Man movie -- add to the mythology.
I would assert, however, that this volume would be disappointing if you're hoping to collect all of the DoFP-related material because the story arc honestly run only for two issues!Still, the truth for the matter is that if you have plans to read everything about Days of Future Past, then you're going to have to check out certain flashbacks and tie-ins from The Uncanny X-Men (#188-189, #192, #199, #202), Excalibur (#35, #52), and Wolverine Days of Future Past which has three issues.
There are like three or four issues that take place at the beginning of this volume that summarize the history of the X-Men and explain what happened in the Dark Phoenix Saga, which precedes this.
There are a couple of issues that have random adventures, then the Days of Future Past story, then an issue at the end focused on Kitty Pride (who might be my new favorite after finishing this one).The artwork was good (It's vintage/old school/classic.
I'm glad I have read this so I have something to compare the movies too, and because it just expands my X-Men knowledge in general.
I would consider this a must-read for X-Men fans.
Brief Introduction:  As I read through these older X-Men stories originally written by Chris Claremont, I wondered to myself about how the X-Men stories were like back then versus how they are now. The stories back then seemed to flow together nicely and the character interactions were fantastic and reading some of the newer X-Men stories currently being made, they seem to lose that magic that made them great in the first place. But enough about my little rant on the state of the “X-Men” comics
But enough about my little rant on the state of the “X-Men” comics nowadays, this is about the most popular story in “X-Men” history since “The Dark Phoenix Saga,” “Days of Future Past.” This graphic novel does contain the popular story “Days of Future Past” written by Chris Claremont with artwork by John Byrne, but it also contains issues 138 – 143, so there are multiple stories in this collection that were quite enjoyable!
Then Dr. Strange says "By the hoary hosts of hoggoth!"When the story actually begins (still not Days of Future Past) the X-Men go to "hell" (view spoiler)[(nope) (hide spoiler)] to try and find Nightcrawler.
making this plot pointless?) (hide spoiler)]At the end of the DOFP storyline the time travel reverse and Kate/Kitty's whole thing was odd to say the least.
So overall, the Days of Future Past storyline is pretty cool, I really like time travel stories, but there's a lot of buffer in this book.
Like the Christmas story where the happy couple gets eviscerated by a demon but at least Kitty learns how to destroy everything the X-Men own.
It turns out the original story is only two issues long and nowhere as good as I recalled it.
The rest of it is just plain meh...and the other issues packaged with "Days of Future Past" in the graphic novel?
They're awful: Cyclops gives a dull rehash of his career with the X-men before he takes some time off after Jean's death; Wolverine and Nightcrawler team up with Alpha Flight to fight the Wendigo (sounds promising, but nope); and demons, demons, demons...holy cow, enough with the stupid demons, Chris Claremont.
It's the X-men, not Son of Satan or Ghostrider.
Actually a short story collection with Days of Future Past being a two-issue story, Chris Claremont ensures you will hate the X-Men with his ultra-crappy writing and storytelling. Full review here!

Acho que não tenho mais paciência para ler coisas da Marvel...
"Elegy" was just a backstory about Jean Gray and "Inferno", while a very intriguing story (this is the first time I've read it), isn't part of the storyline.
I actually got confused, thinking I had gotten the wrong collection, expecting it to be just the two issues for Days of Future Past.
I LOVE Kitty and was thrilled to see her have such a large role in a pivotal storyline.
When I re-read it, I hadn't realized that the storyline 30 years in the future was 2013.
I'd recommend this as a good starter for current day X-Men story lines.
Sin contar a Mystique, obviously.Como buena persona que ve mucho el canal fox la película de Días del futuro pasado me la sé completamente, y aunque estaba segura que la historia sería distinta, me sorprendí al encontrar muchas cosas que si eran iguales.Este número nos cuenta la historia de los hombres x luego de la muerte de un personaje muy querido, Jean Grey (Fénix).
I’ve seen all of the X-Men movies made up to this point except for one and enjoyed them for the most part.
I haven’t read many of the books.
I’m not a big fan of the storytelling style of this collection.Things I did like: Quite a bit of diversity among the characters in terms of gender, country of origin and religion.
Lots of girl power.
Lots of quippy Wolverine dialogue.Hey!/Aw, man...
They put a super-villain prison in New Mexico (I like to see my home state mentioned)--but misspelled the city.
Obvs the movie version needed WAY more Kitty Pryde.
Other than that, this book set the bar for telling time travel stories, and non linear story telling in particular.
(suddenly the terminator dosent look all that novel & innovative now, does it?)The way this story is told, is absolutely innovative for its time, incorporating non-linear story telling as a device.
The story begins with a Mature, aged Kitty Pryde in a dystopian future sending her consciousness back in time with a dying Jean Gray's help, to warn her past self about an impending disaster in the future.
I just heard this is what the next FIRST CLASS movie is gonna be based on.Will we have Wolverine?!!^^^^^I wrote that a while ago.
Where can I read about that?Kitty is 13 and a million times we are told she is the youngest member of the X-Men. YUP YUP!
I think I heard both things.But the fact that in Cyclops' recap of what happened while he was at Jean Grey's funeral totes tells us that it is possible for Professor X to come back because they thought he was dead during one of those times and apparently a clone or something was killed.
Hot on the heels of the the captivating Dark Phoenix Saga, Days of Future Past cemented the reputation of The Uncanny X-Men as one of Marvel Comic's flagship enterprises.Without spoiling the majority of the plot, Days of Future Past involves an apocalyptic future in which Charles Xavier's dream of harmony between mutants and humans has failed to materialize.
This is the classic X-Men time travel story and deals with all of the themes that made X-Men a great comic book series.
They are unconnected to it and unnecessary for this paperback.Still, for anyone interested in classic X-Men with prescient story-telling, Days of Future Past is well worth reading and enjoying.
Reading this graphic novel a couple decades after I originally read the comics (probably in Classic X-Men...) a few things stand out to me.1) I'm shocked the total "Days of Future Past" story arc only comprised two monthly issues of Uncanny X-Men. The tale always loomed so much vaster in my memory.
All of this is on display in the various plot arcs and standalone stories in this collection.3) As a kid raised on the Image Vanguard of Rippling Physiques and Exaggerated Poses, I absolutely slept on John Byrne's artwork.
Story This book is a little hard to review. The title says Days of Future Past, but that's only 2 out of like 6 or so comics in this collection. Really just under 50 pages of the 184.The title story was enjoyable and I'm glad I read it. I wish they wouldn't have bothered with all the filler issues before and after though.Obviously I picked this up with the movie that was just released. I wanted to see how it compared to the original story. I forgot it was adapted for the 90's cartoon as well. I
The title says Days of Future Past, but that's only 2 out of like 6 or so comics in this collection.
Really just under 50 pages of the 184.The title story was enjoyable and I'm glad I read it.
I wanted to see how it compared to the original story.
I'd give the title story 4 stars and the rest 2 stars, hence my 3 star rating for this collection.
Artwork
The artwork is nothing special for me.
I grew up reading comics in the 90s and have only just started again with the likes of Saga, Volume 1 and Locke & Key, Vol. 1: Welcome to Lovecraft.
It has a ground breaking story and Chris Claremont told it in a way where I, as a reader, finds it thrilling.
I mean, just to gather a lot more audience and a lot more interested fans of today in knowing a classic Marvel Comics event.
Above all that though, this is a sci-fi story written for the audience in the 80's so it's quite understandable if this wouldn't give the same appeal to the fans just finding his way around the X-Men universe nowadays.
I'd recommend this to readers who wants to know the roots about the X-Universe for this was a major event back then.
I was disappointed to discover that this collection is not entirely focused on the Days of Future Past storyline.
The Days of Future Past story does not take place until the second or third issue in the collection, and is surprisingly not very long.
While I knew all the characters, there wasn’t enough time to appreciate them within this timeline and therefore mourn their losses when I knew the events would be remedied a few panels later.
That said, sentinels and the anti-mutant sentiment certainly did become a major issue for the X-Men after this, so the impact of the theme made it worth the read.
The Uncanny X Men: Days Of Future(Panini books edition)Contents-.Elegy.Something Wicked This Way Comes.Rage.Days Of Future Past.Mind Out Of Time.Demon.Nightcrawler's InfernoAbove mention are the contents of the book.
Well, Panani edition is a pocketbook size which is same as novel books size and to be honest i don't like graphic novels to be this small.Days of future past, i remember dying to read this book so bad and now that i finally read it i felt like i have been robbed.
Why did nobody tell Claremont he was writing comics and not prose? This is too wordy, which makes it a real chore to read. There's also the fact that only two issues of this collection are the Days of Future Past story, the rest is just put in because Marvel cant release collections with only two comics in them.
Forgot home interesting the X-Men are. Well rounded characters. Tight plot. Hope they don't stretch the movie into three hours of dull
English (but not so good) / ItalianoA brief but substantial summary of X-Men history, the exciting Canadian adventure (someone said Wendigo?) and the very known 'Days of Future Past'. Result = a great volume!ItalianoUn breve ma sostanzioso riassunto della storia degli X-Men, l’eccitante avventura canadese (qualcuno ha detto Wendigo?) e l’arcinota ‘Giorni di un futuro passato’. Risultato = un gran bel volume!
Amuzant tipul super rapid
i'm going to dnf this now, it was not what i expected, didn't follow any aparent storyline/arc, at least to me; maybe i'll pick it up again when i'm bored and actually finish it
This was the introduction of Kitty Pryde, who, if you are a comic reader and my age, you had developed a massive crush on at just the right time in your formative years (it didn’t hurt she was Jewish, as I was, so, ya know, there was a bond).
Not to mention the collection is slightly padded out with stories which really have nothing to do with the “Days of Future Past” storyline, including an issue long catch-up which, if the editros had really wanted us to know what was happeneing, they could have accomplished with a three paragraph piece of prose rather than a 28 page piece of clunky exposition.
