https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/131155.Once_Is_Not_Enough
I once asked a writer friend whether he'd ever contemplated setting aside his literary integrity, writing a Jackie Susann novel, and making millions of dollars.
He replied, "Don't you think I'd write like Jackie Susann if I could?" The point being: You can't fake this sort of thing.
And I think: You can't.
Whatever it was that might have occurred during the editorial process, and whatever labors Michael Korda (or whoever) labored to labor, there is an integrity to this novel that sucks you in and keeps you turning pages.
WHEN I WAS HOME ON VACATION FOR A WEEK AND LIVED WITH AN ALCOHOLIC LESBIAN NAMED BLANKET I FOUND THIS BOOK AND IT SAVED MY LIFE. I READ THE STORY OF JANUARY WAYNE IN 1 SITTING - FOR AWHILE AFTER I HAD PEOPLE REFER TO ME AS JANUARY;BECAUSE OF OUR TRAGIC SIMILARITESIF THERE IS A BOOK THAT SPEAKS OF ME THIS IS ITI CRIED AND CRIED AND LAUGHED THEN LEARNED HOW TO LOVE
This is undeniably a trashy book. But holy hell its amazingly well executed trash
Yeah, but it should have been....Despite its incredibly brilliant title, this book was no Valley of the Dolls.
Actually, that's incorrect, it was Valley of the Dolls, and that book only needed to be written once.
Or at least, reading that book once was enough for me.Oh, maybe I just wasn't in the mood this time, I don't know....
It wasn't bad or anything -- I mean, obviously it was bad, but you get what I'm saying.
I might read this someday, if I'm stuck in an LA rehab or something.
Maybe it just wasn't the right time....
And ends up with a 58-year-old alcoholic author who has grown tired of writing books that are admired by the critics but don’t sell and has decided to try his hand at writing bestsellers.January’s stepmother (the incredibly wealthy Dee Milford) has been trying to line her up with a suitable young man, but unfortunately the suitable young man is having an affair with a middle-aged movie star.
Part of the success of Valley of the Dolls was due to the fact that Susann knew the world depicted in the novel extremely well, having been an actress on Broadway in the 50s.
The book, despite its almost 500 pages, took me about a week to read, and without having a plot to absolutely glue my eyes to the book, my working full time, and having somewhat of a life, I can say that a week for me to finish a 500 page book is actually the speed of light.The book centers on January Wayne, a beautiful but lost and somewhat vacuous socialite, and her middle-aged, washed-up, ex-producer father, with whom she is in love.
I think the only constant love in this whole book is Mike Wayne's love for January.
At least the incest theme in The Love Machine was only hinted at and the character got help.
Even the other characters are aware of the incest theme in Once Is Not Enough and yet no one ever points out how sick the father-adult daughter relationship is nor ever recommends they seek professional help.
finales.The book earns an extra star because I want to grab someone and discuss the book over coffee despite the fact it drove me up the wall.I didn't like it, but it touched my emotions, and any time an author can make you want to rant about fictitious people, they've done their job.
I just didn't get this book. A girl is obsessed with her dad, so she dates a guy his age. Eventually, she gets so high during an orgy thst she drowns herself? There was nothing enlightening or heartbreaking about this story. I didn't care about the characters, so I didn't care when they died.
The shadow of the Second World War (which finished only 28 years before the book was published) looms large over the proceedings and is integral to one of the major story lines.
Despite its age it’s probably not for the faint hearted, there are a couple of nasty scenes, and at times it’s unintentionally funny (one characters talks at length about the benefits of semen as a face mask and the books dwells on the disappointingly small manhood of one of the central characters) but all of that adds to the crazy colour of it all.
Of all of Susann's books Once Is Not Enough is especially valuable in its ability to represent the passing of time (and the dramatic social and cultural shifts which occurred between the 40s & early 70s) and how the main characters adapt or deal with their fading relevance.
However, the backdrop of Freud's ideas contributes to this novel's success as a time capsule.
Perhaps fittingly of this time, the nonexistent pretence at political correctness results in a writing style which is fearless and delivers some especially insightful, confronting or otherwise arresting passages.
It was a horrible mistake to choose this book while I was going through a down time myself.
I have never read anything more gloomy, dramatic or queer.
May be I'm just too used to reading fluffy, "up-ending" books.
While I wanted to know the ending very badly, sometimes, I just wanted to skip everything in between.
The ending was just, wow.
Wow, not as in, this is amazing, but more as in, this is mind-blowing.
Anyhow, I'm just proud of myself that I tackled a book like this and managed to finish it.
Susann is another one of my favorite authors from my younger years. Not sure which is my favorite: Valley of the Dolls or Once is Not Enough. Recommend both of them -- even all of these years later. The more things change, the more they stay the same.
It has all the sensationalism that makes Jackie Susann great, with actual, graphic sex scenes in this one (these are just glossed / summarized in the other books if I remember right?).
It was more annoying and troubling - And, completed the smut-novel feel by killing off the innocent, lost main character after she wanders through so many new experiences with sex and drugs, giving it almost moralistic overtones.This one was right in between Valley and The Love Machine, not as good as the former and not as hopelessly meandering as the latter.
The whole time I read it I couldn't help but shudder to myself and be happy I missed all the 70s.
There are many similarities in both books: the daddy fixation (though January takes it much much further), falling in with pernicious youth, the laughably hilarious descent into drugs, and basically the same end.
The book, like all its characters, is a total trainwreck that you can't help but stare at, open mouthed.
I had absolutely no sympathy towards the main character, January, and wanted to slap her the whole time.
Like The Valley of the Dolls, this is trashy, fun, a product of its time, and really better written than it needs to be in spots.
January is the daughter of Mike Wayne, a handsome, powerful, rich movie producer who puts her in an expensive boarding school after her mother's death.
When she returns to the states, Mike's lucky movie streak has ended and he has married a rich woman that he doesn't love so that January can have a secure future.
As for January, she is a beautiful naive young woman thrown into the free love drug culture of the early 1970s without a safety net.
January Wayne is a young and beautiful and possibly the last innocent woman in New York City during the early 70's.
The story follows her and those who influence her during her first year back from Europe.
As much as January tries to hold on to her moral integrity, those around her have other plans.
It's hard to go into details without giving away part of the book.
It's a fast read.
I found myself not wanting to put it down.
The last 10 pages of this book don't seem to fit with the rest of the story.
I have read so many books in my life that it can be difficult to remember them all. I met a friend for lunch recently and we were talking about the reading we did in our youth and I remembered this.I am giving this book the rating my 15 year old self would have done as I found it racy and exciting and I thoroughly enjoyed it at the time.The question to my much older self is whether I should read it again? I would hate to spoil the memory of a teenage read so will have to ponder.
Pardon me for going all Gene Shalit on you, but Once Was More Than Enough! This book had the most annoying ending of any book I have ever read. It felt like Jacqueline Susann got bored of her own ridiculous heroine and just decided to wrap the whole thing up with 20 pages of the most tiresome, after-school special acid trip imaginable. Blech.
This is a pleasure, no guilt, no shame. I just loved it. Apparently, some people won't be seen in public reading books like this or think they're above such 'trash.' Well, I'm not. The TV movie is even better, with David Jansen and Deborah Raffin, who really embody the father/daughter complexity of the book.
Once was enough but then again, not. This second book of this genre that I read. This slipshod trash has cured me of reading this tripe.
Another read from my teenage years. I wonder if my mom ever knew what I was reading? LOL! I got most of my books from her but not this one. But I enjoyed it at the time and I have no regrets.
Love this book...one of my favorites trashy re-reads
Pues bien, esta es una de esas novelas.Para mí, el orden de mejor a peor de sus novelas es el siguiente: 'El valle de las muñecas' > 'Una vez no basta' > 'La máquina del amor' > 'Dolores' > 'Todas las noches, Josephine' > 'Yargo'.La recomiendo para cualquiera que quiera entrar en el universo decadente de ricos y famosos de la autora y esté familiarizado con su obra.
Como novela no es nada del otro mundo, pero es entrenida y la recomiendo a cualquiera que quiera profundizar más en el universo de Jacqueline Susann.
Another book club book that I could barely get through.
Susann is a trash novelist and this is the trashiest.
A girl obsessed with her father, a successful film producer, comes home from being hospitalized in Switzerland.
She becomes quite promiscuous with her daddy issues and quite the drug addict.
Every icky thing rich white trash can do is here- incest, drug fueled orgies, and suicide.
This time Susann gives graphic details of the sex acts, something she had glossed over in her previous books.
Unfortunately none of the graphic details were sexy or thrilling.
These characters have no redeeming qualities.
The third of Jacqueline Susann's main novels which are now very old and probably dated. This one I read in 1973 and still have on my shelf. She wrote very well about love and the times and I enjoyed them all; wouldn't mind rereading them all just to see how I would feel now but too too many new novels to get read.
There were parts that held my interest, but the last chapter was totally gross. The only thing I can say is that the immoral actions by January had realistic consequences and weren't glorified. For that, I appreciate the author's efforts. I was disappointed that after all the effort to read this book, the last chapter had to be so gross. I would not recommend this book.
I was challenged by my library summer reading program to read a book published the year I was born. I'm glad I chose this one. Could not put it down. Great storyline, lots of twists. Reminds me of Jackie Collins novels but not quite as smutty.
Het is eigenlijk best een zielig en triest verhaal. Maar ik moet ook eerlijk zeggen dat het toch niet het niveau van Valley of the dolls haalt. Bij lange aan niet. das wel een beetje jammer. Er zat ook weel wel heel veel seks en drugs in maar minder functioneel dan bij haar meesterwerk.
I am really conflicted about this book. I really disliked most of the characters but the book was a page turner. I kept on reading until the last 50 pages wondering what would happen. I hated the ending.
Found a discarded copy and read it way back in my rebellious days. Yes, I'll admit it really moved me back then. Seems I remember it being a bit trashy, though. Of course the movie was awful, compared to the book. That's all I'm gonna say!
