https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/190999.Way_Station
Charming.
Way Station by Clifford Simak is a very good, classic science fiction yarn.
A great mix of hard science fiction and the softer social sciences cousin of the genre; like Heinlein, without the sexual aggression and with an almost Bradburyesque idyllic sentimentality.
Way Station was first published in 1963 and won the Hugo Award for best Novel in 1964.
This was certainly a very influential work for later generations of writers, and specifically I wonder if the producers of the Men In Black stories had read Way Station.
A very good read.
I love this story of Enoch Wallace, a Civil War veteran whose home is being used as an interstellar way station, a stopping point for alien travelers journeying from one part of the galaxy to another.
Ever.Older, more cynical Tadiana: Hmm. Way Station.
Teenage Tadiana: *shrieks* 4 STARS!
/gushingOlder Tadiana: Yeah, the aliens and their incredible gifts were pretty cool.
This book won the Hugo Award in 1964.
Teenage Tadiana: Pffft.
Despite the pastoral setting and the narrow-minded, clannish inhabitants of the town, Enoch Wallace, keeper of an intergalactic transport system known as the Way Station, is a very likeable and open character.This wonderful, thought-provoking book is a fast and easy read.
Way Station is a very quiet book that explores war and violence, racial tolerance, friendship and loneliness and what the definition of home is.One of my all-time favorites!
"For years I've tried to understand and to conform to the ethics and ideas of all the people who have come through this station.
I've tried to understand other viewpoints and to evaluate other ways of thinking, many of which did violence to my own.
I am going to cheat and give a picture of one of the book covers which summaries the main idea perfectly: Rarely do I see such a fitting cover picture on a book: it does not show any particular scene, but the plot itself.
I really forgot the last time I saw any sign of hope in a modern science fiction story.
This raises one important question: we were optimistic during the height of the Cold War. This is most definitely not the only example of optimistic science fiction written during that time.
Coming back to this book I was skeptical about Simak's FTL travel idea.
So the tech is more like cloning than transportation and the travelers are actually committing suicide!
I would not want to travel like that, to hell with my clone, he can't have my life!
Banks, Alastair Reynolds, and Neal Stephenson the simple fares that Simak has to offer may not be for you, but if you are in the mood for a simple, uncomplicated, pastoral science fiction reading Way Station may be just the ticket.
His lead character is a man named Enoch Wallace, born in 1840 on a small Wisconsin farm.
A very unusual visitor comes one night with a proposal for him.The language, while rather clear and simple, fittingly captures the the simple and elemental beauty of the rural Wisconsin landscape, and the ongoing wonder Wallace has for alien peoples and cultures.
The narrative uses straightforward language to explore philosophical questions most of us have had, the moments we find hope for humanity, and those moments we despair.
Q:He needed sun and soil and wind to remain a man.
(c)Q:We realized that among us, among all the races, we had a staggering fund of knowledge and of techniques - that working together, by putting together all this knowledge and capability, we could arrive at something that would be far greater and more significant than any race, alone, could hope of accomplishing.
(c)Q:A man...
(c)Q:A million years ago there had been no river here and in a million years to come there might be no river – but in a million years from now there would be, if not Man, at least a caring thing.
a thing that went on caring.
a chart that tracks the eternal life of Enoch Wallace, its slow rise, its slow sloughing off of all that is brutal, weak, or indulgent.
the author wonders, and perhaps despairs: can such a rise happen for brutal, weak, indulgent Man - is evolution even possible?
no spoilers allowed, not for the book, nor for the fate of Man. we shall all have to wait and see what becomes of us, of our sweet dire lives, what these lives could amount to.
Having recently read Simak’s 1952 fixer-up novel City, in which dogs and robots take over Earth in the far future, I’m getting a pretty good sense of the author’s likes and dislikes.
That’s how they like it, I suspect.Simak’s novel Way Station is about a man named Enoch Wallace, who is rumored to have been a veteran in the Civil War, but lives a solitary life on a small farm and has almost no doings with his neighbors other than during brief encounters during his daily walk on his property.
I've been reading this book on and off for several years (first time I read it in Portuguese...).
lolStorytelling, movie making, painting are all art forms.
There is no right or wrong way to make art.
There's no inherently proper or improper, no right or wrong, no appropriate or inappropriate way to craft artistic expression.
Simak had his way.
It's about striking a responsive chord in the reader and in that respect this book works perfectly.Clifford D.
Simak was a great writer, and had the awareness of nature and environment that lent a depth and reality to his settings and characters.
Not quite 5 stars but rounding up for the humor and prose and overall otherworldly-ness of it all. This is one book I will have to have on my shelf so that I can revisit at least once a year.
My first read of Clifford D.
Simak and what a pleasure this was!Some of these old sci-fi books usually lose their flavor in time, because the new ones are simply amazing with all the new technology and concepts brought.
Not the case with one.Through the astounding ideas for those years (new type of teleportation, some truly strange alien species, the whole concept of the way station) it deals mainly with human nature and its inclination toward destruction.
But it does not lack the bright side of it – the beauty of Earth, of its people which are worth fighting for.
A jewel of a book.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Clifford Simak deserves to be remembered along side the giants of Science Fiction writers. His unique blend of pastoral settings, "middle America" characters and deeply emotional plots that explore important questions about the human condition is something special and places him firmly within the "must read" category. This is arguably his finest novel (along with the excellent City) and I highly recommend it. Winner: Hugo Award for Best Science Fiction Novel (1964)
Also thrown into the mix are side stories about some of the aliens Enoch encounters (namely his visits with Ulysses, who likes coffee) and of a deaf-mute girl who has a mysterious, almost magical, connection to nature.
I will avoid sharing spoilers, so all I will say regarding the novel's ending is that, while I suppose it's predictable, it's fitting and optimistic, very much like the events in "Encounter at Farpoint." The novel proves that not all of humanity is fallen and that there is still good in the world, even in the most unsuspecting places and from the most unsuspecting people.Content-wise, Way Station has no significant issues that would deter most readers.
So at its heart, this book is a cautionary tale that goes light on the preaching and weaves together elements of a fairy tale that are all wrapped up with a science fiction bow.This story, which takes place in the Wisconsin countryside during the 1960's, is told from the viewpoint of Enoch Wallace, a Civil War veteran who looks as if he's still in his 30's, and hasn't aged a day since coming back from the war, however impossible that must seem.
But it has to do with Enoch's job of running a way station for aliens traveling through Earth's arm of the galaxy.
Some hundred years ago, Wallace was recruited by Ulysses, a friendly alien Galactican Commissioner, to operate Earth's first galactic way station, welcoming alien visitors and managing the transport.
Enoch's character feels refreshing, with his simple life, his unsophisticated thoughts about morality and loyality.
Other characters, like alien Ulysses or deaf Lucy, were not well developed.He introduces lots of concepts and ideas.
I liked those virtual persons Mary and David and their emotional problems with their relationships to Wallace.
Interesting, but unfocused, I'd say.Weaker parts are the Galactics' religion around the talisman, and some of the motivations - I think that the novel could be a good bit longer without loosing its sharpness.
A thought provoking, Hugo award winning novel by a Grand Master of science fiction, this novels harkens to the Golden Age of SF. It is a terse, third person exploration of what to means to be human and alienated at the same time. Reading this for the 1st in my autumn years, it brings back the need to escape from Earth and from the adolescent that is mankind. I am left full of if onlys. Tis not your typical SF from any period.
Predivna knjiga puna finih ideja koje nisu često korišćene. Interesantni likovi, priča koja drži pažnju i što je najbitnije iako stara knjiga nema klišea ili sličnih gluposti i stvarno se nema ideja kako će se priča završiti ili šta će se sledeće desiti.Po meni pravi klasik SF-a i nešto što bi trebalo svako da pročita.
Simak is a strange work of sci-fi, and at the same time an intensely imaginative one.Enoch Wallace is a Civil War veteran, and he is still alive, looking to be in his thirties, a hundred years later.
Only Enoch can enter, and it is there that Enoch serves as manager of a way station for interstellar travelers.
And these travelers are strangely human in many ways.
And that was the secret of the universe, Enoch told himself -- a thing that went on caring.This is an excellent book, and Simak is an author clearly worth reading.
This was a perfect science fiction story. I loved the authors story telling. I only wish it was a little longer than 207 pages. At least in my e-copy it was. This is one I need to get a physical copy of the book. I would have enjoyed it more. (I don't enjoy reading on e-readers so much) I will and this is one I will re-read. I think the book blurb tells enough, nothing more to add. This did not read as dated to me. Off to find another Simak novel.
All the same, he has appreciated the incredible experiences that he has had - and so he struggles with split loyalties and concern for the future of both the Earth and worlds outside.One of the interesting things about the novel is that it doesn't feel particularly dated to me - because it's written at a very specific time, it doesn't need to feel current and relevant.
Great job, Mr. Simak.For some reason, I often thought of Theodore Sturgeon while reading Way Station - specifically, the novel, Some of Your Blood.
Maybe Simak saw a house that looked unusually well kept up, and daydreamed that it was more, much more than it appeared.The plot concerns outsiders figuring out the house's real purpose, as well as challenges facing its occupant, the well named Enoch Wallace.
That personal war experience leads to the novel's concern with humanity's evolution, an American science fiction chestnut.
Meanwhile, there are scenes drawing from horror, most impressively the first encounter between Enoch and Ulysses, his galactic handler.One last note: I don't usually say this about stories, but there's a mythic aspect to the plot.
The book started out with the protagonist executing two horses in anger over his father’s death.
It was dark and petty and predisposed me to disliking this book.The raccoon torture scene described sealed my dislike.Then I started thinking about the way the women were portrayed.
She had been his perfect woman, created in his mind.”  Instead of railing against the injustice for her existence Simak insists she loves her creator, her enslaver.
Just forgive the old patriarchy.No.Because I've read City by Simak, a beautiful environmentally sensitive novel with expansive ideas written a decade before.Way Station was beyond a disappointment, it was a betrayal.
But Way Station was really, really good.Enoch Wallace is a Civil War veteran who hasn't aged since 1865.
In 1961, a CIA agent stumbles upon the story of the local man in Wisconsin who hasn't aged in 100 years and investigates.When the CIA agent explores Enoch's family cemetery, he comes across two normal headstones - for Enoch's parents.
Way Station is similar to this tradition (and here I know I speak with very little knowledge!), but I think it's beautiful in its approach.The unusual bit is that Enoch is a normal man.
Meh...
Десетките малки идеи, които са запазена марка за по-дългите произведения на Саймък, тук са ограничени и впрегнати да служат на развръзката, вместо да я прекрояват, което прави „Междинна станция“ едно напълно завършено произведение без мозаична структура.Инок е един необикновен отшелник, живеещ високо в планините на Уисконсин.
Инок Уолас е пазител на междугалактическа Междинна станция и единствен представител на земята пред безбрежния съюз на разума във вселената.
Инок, обикновен съдържател на междинна станция, ще трябва да вземе прекалено сериозни решения за позицията и образованието си.Саймък отново вкарва искрици меланхолична безнадежност, но този път има и надежда, въпреки че тя е малка и се базира на индивиди, за човечеството като цяло не вижда самоосъзнаване.
Enohs nav vienkārši operators; saskarsmē ar citu planētu iedzīvotājiem viņš ir arī daudz ko iemācījies.
Zemes iedzīvotāju tendence nav diez ko daudzsološa.Varētu jau teikt tipisks piecdesmito gadu pastorālās zinātniskās fantastikas darbs, kurš pārsteidz ar savu naivumu.
Otrs veids paredz vienkāršu un ģeniālu risinājumu - padarīt visas zemes iedzīvotājus par idiotiem, kur cilvēki nezaudētu pamatprasmes, bet neko nīgrāku par koka rungu nespētu uzmeistarot.
Tur cilvēki paši piedomās klāt to, kas viņiem šķiet svarīgāks un visi laimīgi.Papildus rūpēm par cilvēci autors mēģina rast arī atbildi uz jautājumu, kur tad ir visi saprāta brāļi.
I'll be brief, because there's really not much to say - despite a couple of interesting ideas, this book left an impression of repetitive, monotonous read, with quite too much pacifism for my taste and generally a kind of failed utopia.
And all that Galaxy Central's politics reminds me current wave of multiculturalism politics in EU, which, in my opinion, failed and reading about it in a sci-fi book was a bit strange.Now I might have gone into negatives too much, as certainly this book wasn't that bad.
I kind of enjoyed it, but shelling out those 3 stars I just gave makes me feel a generous person.
Finishing the book, I was left most strongly with this impression of Enoch's character.
Simak was apparently not informed by ecological thinking like that expounded by William Catton, and thus his ideas of the problem of civilization seem a little naïve (i.e., there is discussion about what inherent evil causes humans to make war, and no mention of resource-based collapse).
The range of possible fields of knowledge, including a “machine” that allows beings to commune with the spiritual Force of the Universe; a universal pasimology that can communicate in any medium; social prediction systems that combine complex social metrics and advanced statistics; along with a host of other ideas that inspire one to feel the limits and uniqueness of the window the human mind offers us.
https://poseidons99.wordpress.com/201...
