https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/253668.The_Unpossessed
Wow, what a bitterly funny, dark book.
Very funny in parts, but ultimately pretty dark.
The style is a bit dated in that Modernist way, but there's not much you can argue with there.
Some of the caricatures are a bit on the slapstick side, but she has a good cast of players and it's a solid little amorality play.
I can see how Tess Slesinger was brilliant and all that, but the bottom line is that her experimental narrative technique, the fragmentary recreation of raucous, self-absorbed 1930's New Yorkers, is just plain tedious to get through at times.
Although I tend toward character-driven, impressionistic, non-linear narrative myself most of the time, when the style becomes so obvious that it bogs down the pacing (as opposed to the more polished, masterfully organic way it's done by a Virginia Woolf in To the Lighthouse, say), then it starts to annoy me, regardless of its merits.Still, this book is worth the read.
In addition to her well-to-do circle of acquaintance, the party is attended by a cadre of revolution-ready students and the group of self-declared intellectuals behind the new magazine.
It’s a setup for some of the politically-informed comedy of the Great Depression era – think My Man Godfrey or Sullivan’s Travels.
The bad news is that the party scene and a somber, moving closing chapter make up only the final third of this novel, the first two hundred pages of which are taken up with the activities of that small group of intellectuals who are, in a chaotic and unfocused manner, trying to create the new magazine.
Most compelling was the interiority she infuses on male and female characters, alike.
I loved how individuals could go from profound to mundane to outright despicable thoughts about each other over the course of just a few pages, showing that while the characters she depicts may be types, there is nothing flat about them.
And, of course, I loved the vivid detail about the food and drinks, all the more poignant given the Depression Era setting.
I'd highly recommend this and feel compelled to read it again myself to further relish the rich depictions all over again.
The Unpossessed is a darkly funny tale of sniping, snarking left-wing intellectuals, with a satisfyingly modernist zing that comes out in overstuffed party scenes and interior monologues on long boat trips. Comparisons to the work of Dawn Powell and Mary McCarthy are apt, but I think that some of Slesinger's characters (particularly Margaret and the Bruno-Emmett-Elizabeth triangle) are more vivid, their private anguish and public masks more richly drawn, than those of Powell or McCarthy. (Not to disparage Powell or McCarthy, whose writing I love and enjoy!)
At times funny, at other times rather depressing, The Unpossessed follows five people, two couples and a single man, through their misadventures in the literary world and in Communism. There are a lot of false starts, lamentable looks back at individual’s pass lives, and sexual—or near sexual—indiscretions. The style of the novel is very cool, reminiscent of movies of the era.
Several things happened as I read this book.1) I couldn’t help but seeing it as a movie 2) I couldn’t help comparing it to the Grapes of Wrath. 3) And once again, I am SO GLAD the women’s movement happened!
Synopsis: This book, published in 1934, is about a group of left-wing communist supporters in New York City in the 30's. They want a revolution, but their best idea for getting one going was to start a magazine.My Review: I made it 2/3 of the way through this book before I finally decided that life is too short to spend so much time reading a book that I was simply not interested in and not enjoying. The prose was hard to follow and the characters all blended together and I had a difficult time telling them apart.
One can only handle so much manic jazz baby.But I give the second star for the arrival of the Filing Cabinet, a cause for celebration, as the motley crew of radical intellectuals take that as the sign their Magazine might someday become a reality. Dream on, you crazy stars.
I say mostly cuz with the hindsight of 70's years of cultural progress there are character lines that grate and I tend to label as "quaintly stereotypical", if there is such a thing.
It was refreshing to be reminded there were intelligent people who talked booze & sex & radical politics behind that generation of whitewashed MGM musicals.
I kept thinking 'how many of these characters would end up in front of McCarthy 20 years on?"All in all a good read and far more complex and engrossing than I'd imagined going in.
Tess Slesinger's life was cut short at 39, but in those few years she packed a lot of wisdom and wit.
Before moving to Los Angeles she lived all her life in New York, insider to the intellectual circles and artists that make up the characters in this book.
She went on to write successful screenplays (Academy Award nominated for A Tree Grows in Brooklyn), and her descendants continue to work in the movie industry as producers and directors.
But this book is firmly rooted between-the-wars New York City, funny and perceptive, sad at times.
I know nothing to compare with Emily Fancher's courage in coming here tonight," says a society matron of the wife of a tycoon who has the "courage" to appear at a society ball just after her husband is sent to prison for embezzlement) and the complete impotence of leftist intellectuals ("Our meetings are masterpieces of postponement, our ideologies brilliant rationalizations to prevent our ever taking action.") which had me repeatedly laughing out loud.
But ultimately, the book is the sad and poignant story of a young intellectual couple who are so wrapped up in idealism and abstract ideas that they are afraid to simply live life.

Her only novel, published when she was only 29, it is so bright, so playfully and angrily intellectual, so intelligently experimental, so sharp and sensitive, satirical and forgiving and unforgiving.
It is a condemnation of the generation older than her, although it seems written by someone much older, and it is certainly not sympathetic to any of the younger.
It̕s such a tragedy that a woman who could write such sentences, who could have been a Jewish Mary McCarthy before there ever was a Catholic one, never wrote another novel in the ten years she had left.
Marketed as a black comedy, but more black than comedy IMO. A group portrait of a circle of leftist intellectuals, men and women, in Greenwich Village during the Great Depression. Characters based on well-known intellectuals such as Clifton Fadiman & Lionel and Diana Trilling. The narration moves back and forth between different characters' perspectives. I didn't enjoy Slesinger's work the way that I enjoyed Mary McCarthy's The Group. Slesinger's portrait of her milieu is etched in acid. But definitely an interesting read for anybody curious about the history of New York leftie intellectual types.
I'm not sure what to say about this book, it was different than anything I've read and it was a very bitter portrait, though sharply funny at times. I'm going to go back and read Elaine Showalter's take on it.
The way this story told is beautiful. I feel like I really got to know the characters and would love to frame a couple of the chapters, just beautiful! I couldn't read this fast enough and now I want more.
Very, very smart; very well written; and thoroughly depressing. Social satire with enough emotional depth to carry a novel and enough bite to leave you bleeding without any attempt at a bandage.
I just didn't like this book--too bitter and too dated. Neither of those qualities are faults, necessarily, but I still didn't like it.
The Party chapter was really good.The ending wasn't what I expected.Also liked the lines "Pigs!" "Pigs are happy."
