https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2354246.Dry_September
Hyphens and ellipses in dialogues--unuttered cries. Questions unanswered, hinting of the innocence of the unjustly condemned. The one who knows, who believes otherwise, retches, vomits, weighed down by the wrong about to be done and which he could not prevent. The source of the false accusation watches a movie, then convulses with laughter, attended to by her solicitous friends.A story of lynching, of how of no value the negroes lives were, then, when the Americans were thinking how good it sounds to say that all men are created equal.
FRTC
a very beautiful story about racial prejudices. The best part of the story is that most of it is unsaid. It makes the reader think and hence this adds to its beauty. So, a Must Read.
William Faulkner wrote this story about life in the South of the US.
People might be unjust to others and very cruel.
Faulkner gave a relevant title for the story - 'Dry September'.The author raises in the story racial problems in the American South.
He explores the motivation: what makes people so cruel and what differs a mob from a previously friendly group of people.
Although the writing style of William Faulkner is relatively difficult for reading, his prose gives readers the unforgettable feeling of time and place in the narration.
This is a link to the text of the story: http://engl273g-finnell.wikispaces.um...
A dry depiction of the racial prejudice at Mississipi.The first paragraph interprets the title: the rumor had gone like a fire in dry grass.Probably also the fire in the heart McLendon. The final description: "hunted furiously for the shirt... wiped his body again... panting."As James Joyce described it as "the dull anger", it drove people to hurt others.We are always hurting other with our dull anger. These two are not distinct in essence. It is frightening when it become a social phenomenon, but the first issue at hand is: how do you cool down your dry September fire?
This was a chilling and terrifying depiction of racial prejudice taken to its worst extreme. And while Faulkner certainly elicits disgust on the part of the reader to the perpetrators of his lynch mob mentality, he manages to make us realize there could be situations in which the right conditions, the right prejudices, and the right combination of voices could push us into participating (or at least not objecting) in something morally indefensible. I am reminded of Elie Wiesel's NIGHT, in which he makes a compelling case for the innate potential we all have to become monsters.
Nice story, makes me wondering in every part. It met the point of good literature work; easy to read, but hard to understand. Reader will find many gap to fill and to develop, another point of good literature.
Interesting story. Learnt so much about the North and South divide in America and about the White Goddess complex. Loved how almost all the characters were grey.I really felt sorry for the black guy(Hayes) who was basically at the wrong place at the wrong time.
2.5 I'm not quite sure how I feel about this story. I think the writing was really good, but the racist and sexist things some of the characters said made me feel really uncomfortable. There's nothing in the story that made me feel that the author was denouncing these thing either... :/
Thus far, Faulkner is the only author I've come across who I've given consistently high marks despite not necessarily liking his works, simply because he's that talented of a writer.
A good 'un. Shows you how it happens, like being a fly on the wall.
Depressing. And what's the point, really?
I give it a three for being Faulkner, but I didn't like the way that the story had no plot. It was definitely modernist garbage.
