https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177193.The_Man_With_the_Golden_Gun
(B-) 71% | SatisfactoryNotes: James Bond infiltrates an evil corporate retreat and suffers from a bout of "Why Don't You Just Shoot Him?" disease.
Just an okay Bond book.
Shorter - so a quick read.This book is late in the Ian Fleming Bond timeline, so this Bond shows a bit of age, some wear and tear, and is not quite as invincible as you would expect.Also, if you are familiar with this title because of the movie - this book is very different from the movie.
It makes me wonder because by the point this book was released, they were already making the movies.
You would have thought that they might at least have tried to make them close to the book like the early movies were.
But, that is okay - The Man With the Golden Gun is one of my favorite Bond movies.
Oh me oh my...an AMC Hornet, an AMC Matador, Simon Templar....I mean Roger Moore!...wearing loser suits...I mean leisure suits!...and the most horrendously offensive Southern stereotype sheriff in the history of moviemaking adds up to some seriously noxious stuff.
Britt Ekland, Peter Sellers' ex, plays the stupidest secret agent imaginable, who manages to get herself locked in the trunk of the baddies' FLYING AMC MATADOR *oh dear goddesses please keep my dinner down* with the macguffin in her handbag which she hasn't had the common sense to drop...well, it's ridiculous even for a Bond movie.The ending is...it's...epic.
So awful, so ridiculous, so completely...I...words do not exist yet for the sensation of revolted, horrified, amused, aesthetically affronted...well.
Seeing as psychology used to be involved in all sorts of messed up-fuckery, I'm not as surprised and shocked as you would think that apparently smart, top dog government men are taking this kind of bizarre idea seriously.Bond goes to Jamaica to catch Saramanga....JAMAICABond, as is well-documented now, loves the tropics and being near the sea.
I think he is genuinely interested in getting to know (young, beautiful) women and I like how he takes the time to talk to them and learn about their experiences.Then Saramanga comes down the stairs and everything goes to hell.
If you think Bond is going to settle down with someone motherly and uptight like Mary Goodnight, you're smoking something.
His not to reason why!It is with a little bit of sadness as well as a little bit of relief that I am jotting down my notes on The Man with the Golden Gun, the last novel in the original Bond series.The sadness is most definitely a result of reading the series with an awesome buddy, who never lost his patience when I needed to rant about the stupidity of the main character or of the author or both, and who is one of these awesome fans of the franchise that impart additional information about Fleming and the books, who was (at least seemed) happy enough to just geek out on some of the aspects of the stories, and without whom I would not have continued the series.The relief is largely caused by the fact that, on the whole, the books are not great, and in some cases are just pure terrible and made me wish for brain bleach.
A close cousin of the adventure story is the western.
The creator of James Bond and the author of thirteen Bond books, Fleming died at age 56 in 1964.
Change the facts in this story just a little and this could have been set in 1870 and in the American west.
Fleming’s 1950-60s gunman is Francisco Scaramanga – as scary a villain as any he’s written in the past.Told with Fleming’s inimitable wit and charm, and with an adventurer’s style, this is maybe not one of the better Bond stories, but still very good in it’s own right.
"The past could be forgiven, but not forgotten – except with the passage of time."- Ian Fleming, The Man with the Golden GunI can't really call this an unfinished novel.
He wrote the first draft and died.
So, this obviously is the last James Bond novel.
I'm not enough of a Ian Fleming fan to recognize how/where/if the lack of Ian Fleming made a huge difference to the drafting.
I think the end of the novel, with Jones refusing certain honors, may not have found their way into the final novel if Ian Fleming were in control through the whole process.
Ah doan talk wid buckra." I urge you to read the book for the translation!) "The Man With the Golden Gun" may have ended this classic series on a weak note, but the book itself winds up with some wonderful summations of the Bond character, as Leiter cogently tells the agent "Pest control...It's what you were put into the world for" and Bond later dwells on how domesticity, for him, "would always pall." Ringing down the curtain on fiction's most famous secret agent, Fleming's final effort may not be his best, but it sure was good enough for this reader.
I believe the movie for this one took the title of the book annnnd...
Of course James Bond was in both the book and the movie.
So here we have Lulu singing the theme song - you might remember her from To Sir With Love approximately seven years before she jumped into Bond's world.
There's a lack of a Bond girl in the book, unless you count Mary Goodnight, which probably doesn't count because he doesn't try to get her in bed.
Bond was practically celibate in this book.
Bond has arrived back in the UK after disappearing and being presumed dead.
Well...a man claiming to be Bond has arrived.
Still I think the book is enjoyable and will please those who didn't care for the way the last book ended with Bond heading for the Soviet Union.Here we have (as our melodramatic and megalomaniacal villain) a professional killer who as his trademark uses a Gold Colt .45 Peacemaker.
This bugs me a little as I like the gun.Anyway the killer must be killed...and Bond recovering from being brainwashed...must use his 00 license to kill, to kill the killer.Got that?
This is a strange, sad, little novel.Apparently there’s some debate as to whether this posthumously published book was actually finished by Fleming before he died, or completed by other hands.
It’s a different and almost flatter Bond in this book, one lacking the trademark cruelty or even his normal arrogance of class.
Even the final confrontation is incredibly un-dramatic, with Bond lacking a killer instinct and Scaramanga not quite being the great hit-man we’d been led to expect.Nothing comes to life in 'The Man with the Golden Gun' – not the characters, not the setting, not the plot.
Commentators often point out how close to parody Fleming could get in the later books, but even that seems lacking here.

The final, and widely regarded as weakest of the Bond novels. Published after his death, it is also widely believed to have been 'finished' by Kingsley Amis. That said, while the book is a little easier going that previous Bond novels it's still an enjoyable book.Bond returns to London a damaged man, attempts to kill M, but is given one last (again) chance to redeem himself. A suicide mission to assassinate Scaramanga: the man with the golden gun.
First published in 1965, this novel starring James Bond as the once popular 007 secret agent has since suggested its seemingly contemporary linguistic usage in which we can see from the following extracts, for instance:1) The post of ‘Personal Assistant’ in Chapter 8, that is, P.A. has long been in use in business administration, academia, etc.
since 50 years ago.2) The shortened monosyllable ‘Kay?’ from O.K. in Chapter 13 is extremely and wonderfully informal, the first one I’ve ever found in my long reading exploration.3) From Chapter 16 I liked this sentence: She suddenly realized the fact, blushed furiously and stopped.
I love the James Bond films, but the plots of these novels never make much sense to me.
Indeed, it is one of the shortest of Fleming’s novels and most agree that he simply didn’t have time to flesh out and polish the final manuscript.The story begins with a rather bizarre segment wherein Bond has been brainwashed to assassinate M.
The path to the climactic scenes are quick but work fine although here is another area that Fleming would have probably fleshed out given the chance.Two more short stories to go in one final volume of the series.
(I wound up preferring Moonraker myself.) Goldfinger was good enough to lead me all the way through the 12 novels and the two books of stories in the past few years.About TMWTGG itself.
He wrote a glowing monograph on the entire series called The James Bond Dossier; he wrote another book that was a sort of fan's pastiche on the pop phenomenon of 007 called The Book of Bond, or Every Man His Own 007; and he even published the first new Bond novel after Fleming's death, Colonel Sun. But the myth that he made a big contribution to TMWTGG is demonstrably false.
Sent to Jamaica to kill "Pistols" Scaramanga, a hired killer responsible for shooting several fellow agents, Bond blunders his way in no time at all into his target's confidence, despite the fact Scaramunga has been warned an English spy has been sent to kill him.Hardly one to hide his light under a bushel, Scaramanga introduces himself to Bond as "The Man with the Golden Gun" and shows off his signature weapon by blowing away a couple of tame birds.
Bond hardly lands at Kingston Airport before learning of Scaramanga's plans thanks to the first of many improbable coincidences.Bond makes some boneheaded moves over the course of the story, dithering ridiculously so Fleming or whomever can fill up some more pages.
Frank had big collections of collectibles: pornography (including Tijahuana Bibles!), comics (kept in plastic, never to be read), graphic novels (ditto), Bond memorabilia and the like.
They'd do crazy things like lie down in the middle of busy Higgins Road, laughing as the cars would swerve and brake to avoid them; throw eggs on Mr. Messenger's roof from John's to attract flocks of seagulls; spy on neighbors, both residential and business; roam the interstate near their homes, looking for the pornography amazingly abundant in the gullies alongside (a significant percentage of it was foreign).
One thing in common between both sets of friends was an interest in international espionage in general and with James Bond in particular.
Indeed, I was getting tired of the things, having read them all.
(The only film which follows the plot of the novel is Thunderball, and that’s because it’s actually a novelisation of the script… and a rights battle between Fleming and four others subsequently tied up the title for decades.) In The Man with the Golden Gun the novel, Scaramanga plies his trade in the Caribbean and has links to the Castro regime.
Parts of the novel simply don’t ring true at all, as if Fleming has done little or no research; the only bits that are convincing are his descriptions of the countryside (Fleming, of course, lived in Jamaica).
The Man with the Golden Gun is the twelfth novel (and thirteenth book) of Ian Fleming's James Bond series.
Publishers Jonathan Cape passed the manuscript to Kingsley Amis for his thoughts and advice.
Bond also refuses later honours and reflects on his own name, "a quiet, dull, anonymous name", which had been Fleming's aim when he first named the character.The touches of humour displayed by Bond in previous novels have gone.
No one comes close to equalling Bond.Apart from the reasonable finale 'The Man with the Golden Gun' is missing a vital spark.
If Fleming had finished the book then it shows he'd lost interest in the character.
James Bond returns from the dead only to attempt to assassinate his boss M.
Scaramanga is known as "The Man with the Golden Gun" because his weapon of choice is a gold-plated Colt .45, which fires silver jacketed solid gold bullets.So Bond returns to Jamaica to track down this killer, a familiar background to both Fleming & Bond.
For James Bond, the same view would always pall.
While this book lacks the polish from earlier Bond novels, as Fleming died before he could do it, the book has the strength and energy as only IF could give him.
Just finished reading an original first edition of Ian Fleming's last Bond novel preceding his heart attack and death at 56 years old in August 1964.
Wasn't sure whether this novel would provide a dated or contemporary read.
Man with the Golden Gun read as a spy novel would today with excellent pacing and story.
Man with the Golden Gun is an easy read and a great preamble to attacking your own screenplay.
Fleming's Bond would do well in today's spy game though he'd probably speak a few more languages and have a greater flair for international foods.
The typical beef with this novel is - as it was published after Fleming's death and he traditionally added much of the details in additional edits - it lacks the description and in-depth analysis of Bond novels past.
Chronologically, these are the final months of Fleming's 007 story and it concludes with Bond resurfacing after being presumed dead, brainwashed by the KGB and to get back in M's good graces he hunts down notorious assassin Scaramanga.
The book does not hold up as well against some of its predecessors in the series yet I can't give a Fleming novel less than 4-stars.
Seriously, why are people reviewing the film versions on a book site?OK, so published after Fleming died, and not fully edited, so no need to pick over the details.
Suffice to say the a more polished version might have avoided some of the pitfalls evident in the premise as we have it.So 007 is offered a chance to redeem himself, after being brainwashed by the KGB into attempting to assassinate M.
His mission, to kill the number one hired gun, Scaramanga, the man with the golden gun.
If I had never seen the Bond movies and this was the first Fleming book I had ever read, I would seriously wonder what all the hype was about. Bond has returned to active service after being in the hands of the Russians for a year, he has been brainwashed. What results from that is really good and made a better story than the next half of the book. It was an ok read but this just did not resonate for me.
Forget ever James Bond movie you ever saw when you read the books. These are much more a mystery/adventure story. Recommended
Barely three stars. I think this was the last completed Bond before Fleming's death. Published after he died. I actually read this when it was serialized in Playboy. Date read is a guess.
The Man with the Golden Gun by Ian Fleming is the 12th novel featuring English Secret Service agent James Bond, 007.
M gives Bond an suicide mission, to go after a Cuban assassin named Francisco “Pistols” Scaramanga, who uses a gold plated .45 Colt.I have always thought the James Bond movie franchise missed the mark with the Blofeld Trilogy (Thunderball, On Her Majesty’s Secret Service.
Rumors swirled that author Kingsley Amis may have finished this novel, which might explain the shift in tone and the level of excitement at the end.
The novel is quite different from the movie of the same name.
As the story opens, Bond, after being captured by SPECTRE and brainwashed into attempting an assassination of M, is treated and released, and is assigned the seemingly impossible task of killing Scaramanga, the eponymous villain.
The story is set primarily in Jamaica, where Bond assumes an alias and infiltrates Scaramanga's domain and his scheming with most of the world's leaders in organized crime.
