https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/543339.Dances_with_Wolves
The novel and film later came under criticism for their similarity to Elliot Silverstein's A Man Called Horse.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: در سال 1992 میلادیعنوان: رقص با گرگها؛ نویسنده: ویلیام بلیک؛ مترجم: بهرام نظام آبادی؛ تهران، شقایق، 1371، در 314 ص، چاپ دیگر: تهران، آبنوس، 1371، موضوع: داستان سرخپوستان کومانچی امریکا، داستانهای نویسندگان امریکایی سده 20 معنوان: با گرگها میرقصد؛ نویسنده: ویلیام بلیک؛ مترجم: توراندخت تمدن (مالکی)؛ تهران، روشنگران، 1380، در 381 ص، شابک: 9646751504؛ با گرگ‌ها می‌رقصد نام رمانی اثر مایکل بلیک است که بر پایه آن فیلمی با همین نام در سال 1990 میلادی توسط کوین کاستنر ساخته شد.
Here is what an edition of Reader’s Digest Condensed Books in which I read Dances With Wolves says about the author: “Blake’s sympathy for the period is such that he feels that he was born a hundred years too late.
The proceeds from Dances With Wolves enabled Blake to say farewell to his Chrysler home.”A horse called Little Boy shows a loving gesture to Michael Blake.
Its hero Burt Reynolds, who is white, falls in love with a Native American woman called Cat Dancing, played by Sarah Miles.
Ples s vukovima je jedna od retkih knjiga koja je pretočena u film gde bukvalno nije promenjena nijedna reč iz knjige... Knjiga je ostavila dubok utisak na mene iako nije "my cup of tea"...
We all have comfort books, don't we?
The kind you read when even reading is an effort.
They may not be great literature but they have substance enough to bring you some kind of needed peace and spark some goodness in you for the world, keep a small light flickering, which you need, to make it through.
For me, often, books like this one do this.
I'm not sure exactly why stories that take place in the West in the mid-19th century bring me this kind of comfort.
This book is a good comfort book.

I'm keeping my rating at 4 big stars.This is a great novel and I recommend it to any fans of the movie, or to anyone looking for a beautiful adventure. There's something about this story and its characters that really moves me (whether I'm reading the book or watching the movie). Every time.
Fantastic!I never ever read this sort of thing. I usually stick to horror and crime and all that strange dark stuff.This was probably the easiest book I've read this year. I know very little (or nothing) about Native American history or American modern history but this has been a great story to read, set in a colonised country's most turbulent time without all that military "Team America" style fanfare. Plenty of action and some characters you'll fall in love with.
The book's title has nothing to do with wolves apart from the main character's friendship in his loneliness with a wolf he names "Two Socks" because of the white colouring on his two front paws and his triumphant dancing in Indian style around his camp fire accompanied by the wolf one evening after a successful buffalo hunt.
There is romance, humour, sadness, wisdom and contrasting traditions within the story.The story came to life for me initially and moved me deeply when I watched Kevin Costner's movie of the same title when it came out, (one of my favourite films) in which he attempts to portray the Native Red Indian Culture as real people, not simply savages; and one American soldier's open heart among the general prejudice of the "whites" After all, the Indians were there first.
I saw the movie first, and then decided to read the book.
The book answers many questions the movie leaves, some of which I hadn't even considered.For instance, why are there no soldiers at the fort?
The book explains it.Why was he even offered the position?
The book tells all.One of the things I wondered was why he spent the night outside the camp after they found the buffalo.
Again, the book details why that was.The book is very good, much better than the movie.
Even though the movie was three hours long, they had to leave out certain material to fit it into that amount of time.
I am among the those who saw the movie prior to reading the book.
I recall liking the movie and thinking it was beautiful, but it didn't truly stick with me the way the book will.
I truly cried over this part: Lieutenant Dunbar went to one knee and wrote the name at the bottom of his bark grammar book.
I waited until I finished the book to look it up because she was one character that I really wanted to be made up of the words and my mind only.
Do you see that this is a good book?
Can you see that I will always like this book??Interesting to note that this scene (where Wind in His Hair is shouting good-bye to Dances With Wolves) was not in the book.
All in all the movie stayed very true to the book which I found to be a great read.Also interesting to note that Kevin Costner was a friend of the author and played a role in getting it published and also made in to a movie.I think anyone who liked the movie would enjoy this book.
Fun read!
This was one of those rare cases where the movie was better than the book.
Ok, let's continue.During a DWW documentary, Kevin Costner said Michael Blake had pitched him an idea for a movie, who, in turn, told Blake to write the book and then they would go on with the adaptation.
And considering the way the book came into being, no one will be surprised to notice that it's not the best piece of literature or that its cinematic equivalent is better, if only because its cinematography is close to masterpiece (and I'm not referring to Mary McDonnell's face, even though it's also a masterpiece).
It was impossible for me to separate the movie from the book in this case.
I appreciate the details given in the book that help fill in some of the holes in the screenplay.
I think Lieutenant Dunbar is more engaging and charming and likable in the movie, or is that simply because I really like Kevin Costner and the way he portrayed the character?
It's impossible for me to tell but I think what I love about this story is the simplicity of it, his appreciation of nature and his gratitude for the genuine relationships he builds with a group of people so different from his own.
مگر میشود فیلم بی نظیر رقصنده با گرگ را با بازی بینظیر وکارگردانی کوین کاستنررا چند بار ندید وکیف نک
The problem with me reading this book is that I already know the story so well. Judge if you want, but Dances With Wolves is one of my favorite movies of all time. The book was written pretty much as a first draft to the screenplay about a year before the film was made and it is almost word for word. This was a rare example of when the movie is better than the book.
This book actually delved deeper into the amazing story crafted by the film and the two entities are nearly 100% true to each other.
Although I had deeply wished that the ending portions of the film were simply a fabrication of Hollywood drama, I found out that they were actually from the book itself and at some points were much more horrific and heart wrenching than the movie actually shows.
I love this story wholeheartedly and will keep it safe for future generations of my family to read and enjoy.
پس از لحاظ مضمون، چیز جدیدی رو نخواهید دید، ولی فضای سرخ پوستی که ما شاید زیاد باهاش آشنا نباشیم، برامون کاملاً جدیده.مشکل بزرگ این داستان، همون طور که جای دیگه ای هم نوشته بود، این بود که با این که بیشتر داستان بین قبایل سرخ پوست و راجع به رسوم اون ها بود، خبری از "روح سرخ پوستی" و عقاید و اندیشه های سرخ پوستی نبود.
ولی این که چه عقاید مذهبی ای دارن؟ راجع به دنیا چه فکر می کنن؟ اندیشه های اخلاقی-فلسفی شون چیه؟ خبری از این ها در فیلم نبود.
I happened to hear the musical score to the movie while I was listeing to NPR a week or so ago, and was reminded of the film.
The musical score was extremely powerful, and lifted the film above what it might have been without it.
While the book is very good, the movie was certainly more stunning in its visual presentation, and, as I said, the musical score contributed immensely to the screen version of the story.
So that aspect of the story does not bother me as much as it might bother others.All that said, the book is very well written, very readable, and I enjoyed it very much.
This was a book very close to my heart.
Then, remained in my seat for a little longer, I was really moved by the story.
The lives of the Comanche, the days out on the prairie, the buffalo, Cisco the brilliant horse, the wolf...it all combined together and created a wonderful read.
To be honest, I didn't have the heart to read the sequel.
I certainly didn't want to see the story take on a much darker and depressing tone.
I watched the movie much later, which I also like a lot, but the book is something else.
Wow! This was one of my favorite movies to watch when growing up and now I finally had the pleasure to read the novel. What an emotional roller coaster! Although I wish this book never ended, I finished it with loving and hating the characters as well as the plot. Dances with Wolves was hands down one of the best books I have ever read.
I don't know what I was expecting when I began Dances With Wolves, perhaps the naive idea that an author could actually make Native American sound realistic and not entirely a white-centered point of view.
It's a pretty predictable Western type of story, where an American gets put in a strange position and must learn to survive.But it's so irritating to read it and realize that in spite of Dunbar's (and Blake's by default) openness to Comanche culture, he doesn't actually observe anything about it.
This book follows John Dunbar from the Civil War to the American frontier on the Great Plains.
He ends up alone at an abandoned fort in Comanche country.He befriends his horse and an old wolf and faces the big questions of existence.
He eventually befriends the Indians and meets an interesting woman.
We get to watch him transform from a soldier in the white culture to an Indian warrior.
The book provides more background than the movie and ends differently.
I recommend this to anyone interested in aboriginal cultures and what life was like before the indians were herded into reservations.
Spelling “love” in ComancheThis novel is a love-story. Fundamentally between a man and the idea of a different way of life: being part of Nature’s cycle of Life, fully enjoying the freedom incarnated by the Great Plains. A star-crossed love however: civilization and colonization, the white man original sins, are an impending doom ready to mar the fragile utopian existence built on bridging cultures and refusing petty divisions. An engrossing adventure that, focusing on a solid group of characters, sidelines the historical aspects of the narrative in favor of a more empathic storytelling.
This book was so good. It's been a long time since I read a story that was actually relaxing to read, so it was a nice change of pace from some of the more intellectual stuff that's been filling my brain of late. The writing was beautiful, the setting was my favorite, and the pacing was perfect. You almost feel as if you're just along for the ride.
I saw the movie first and loved it but thoroughly enjoyed the book as well. The descriptions of Dunbar's life on the plains were wonderful & I loved the characters.
Minispoilereita edessä!Helppolukuinen. Viimeiset 20 sivua aiheuttavat akuuttia ankeutta, ja usko menee ihmiskuntaa kohtaan.
Beautifully written.
Near the end of the story, when the army comes to find Dunbar, he chooses to fight for the Sioux tribe against the military, the tribe and Dunbar retreat into the woods to escape the military, thus ending the novel.I enjoyed reading this book because of the brilliant plot that lies within it.
Again, I feel that this is a great novel, I would highly recommend it to anyone who wants to read it, and I myself have truly enjoyed diving in to this wonderful story.
I am putting it on my Top 50 novels list because I KNOW I will re-read it - I could almost start over immediately!There is something magnificent, always, in tales of the histories of those peoples we white nations....decimated.
But - between the two stories lies the truth that people the world over and throughout history have been exactly the same; they want to be left alone to feed and house their families, to live in peace and to gain understanding (of the meaning of life in some way).
That, I think, is the truth for the majority of people.
