https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227593.Three_Junes
"TJ brilliantly rescues, then refurbishes, the traditional plot-driven novel..." By "plot" don't we usually mean "stuff happens in a somewhat connected way?" Would a family's eating, walking dogs and dying count as stuff happening?
It is not a book for boys who like action.The novel is also referred to as a "literary triptych" because, I suppose, it has three parts: Part I is third-person narration focalized on Paul, the paterfamilias; Part II is first-person narration by Fenno, the gay son in New York; Part III is third-person again focalized on Fern, the ex-lover of Fenno's ex-lover.
There are a lot of beautiful things about this book, but to be honest, it gets weighed down by the whiny primary character, Fenno, who has the longest section all to himself.
He's angry, and we have no idea why.
Very angry, and very self-righteous, and we have absolutely no idea.
The best part of the novel by far is the first section, concerning Fenno's father.
I don't need every narrator to be likeable.
My issue is that I need to understand why somebody acts the way they do, whether they're sympathetic or not.
Attempts to cohere titans of American & British Lit about family bonds (a-la USAs Jonathan Franzen, a-la UK's Zadie Smith) together with those about the AIDS epidemic/"gay lifestyles" (USA: Michael Cunningham, UK: Alan Hollinghurst)--but in my opinion fails miserably to rise to their level. (Their heights being absolutely unreachable anyway.) It's hefty. The award is not deserved; the Ian McEwan-like snobbish air of contemporary Euro-affluence never settles well with me. Ugh... next!
I'm tempted to give this book five stars, but it isn't my nature to gush and I think, based on her characterizations, that Julia Glass would understand my reticence to love without any reservations. But _Three Junes_ captured me and I hereby recommend it to you. When I finished this novel, a long journey of imaginary characters across hundreds of pages, I felt at once connected to the world and affirmed in my humanity. Life is imperfect and we love anyway. As best we can.
This book is not at ALL, what I expected. From the cover I was expecting another typical book club, chick-light book about three women named June...little did I know. I loved this book because it was complex and seemed very "real" life. Nothing was nice and tidy and that's my kind of world.
The Junes in the title refer to three different months, different times in the life of the McCleod family, but it's not exactly chronological--there are many flashbacks woven throughout the book, which is perfectly paced.
His wife, Maureen, breeds and trains collies, and together, they have three sons: Fenno, followed by the twins Dennis and David.The book opens as Paul is taking a guided tour of the Greek Islands after he has been widowed, which gives him ample time to reflect on his past life and how he feels about his family.
Paul becomes friends with an American artist, Fern, during the vacation.Paul's son, Fenno, narrates the second and longest part of the novel.
Fenno is also asked to adopt Mal's pet parrot, Felicity, who brings beauty and affection to Fenno's life.The painter, Fern, shows up again in June of 1999, widowed and soon to be a single mother.
Fern, who had confided in Paul during the Greek trip in the early part of the book, now has a long heart-to-heart talk with Fenno.
Julia Glass is a painter as well as a writer, and she brings ordinary events to life with an artist's eye for detail and color.
I'm so glad I'm done!
The book was split into 3 parts, with a single character related in some way to the other characters in the other 2 parts.
In the first part of the book, it was slow to get going.
Part 2 was probably the best part of the book with the obvious relationship to part 1.
Part 3 was boring and probably not the character you're going to expect.
I know anyone who reads this is going to expect in part 3 that it will pull all the parts together..but they left the obvious hanging.
As his interest in her grows, he reflects back over the course of his marriage - its beginnings, its never-resolved uncertainties, and its untimely ending.Six years later, June of 1995 finds Paul's son Fenno returning to Scotland from his expat life in New York for his father's funeral.
In addition, though he is the character Glass spends the most time on, I found Fenno the most inscrutable of all of them.Given the intensity surrounding the decline of a human life due to AIDS, I guess it's not surprising that the middle section of this book was heavy at times.
The first and third of the three sections are anchored by a woman named Fern who is a catalyst for critical transitions for different members of a Scottish family who she meets many years apart, in Greece (the early section) and the Hamptons (in the later section).
She has no awareness that the people she is meeting are related to each other.
This son is by far the most charismatic character in a constellation that is saturated with stereotypical stand-ins for ordinary people.
It takes a master like Wolff or Forster or James to illuminate the ordinary moment and elevate it to literature.
Glass is a competent writer telling an unremarkable story in an understated way.
Broken into three parts, the first section is a third-person narrative from the perspective of the Scottish father, reflecting on his wife's death and his three sons.
The second part is first-person narrative in the voice of the oldest son Fenno.
The third section is again third-person narrative, but this time focused on Fern, an ex-lover of Fenno's ex-lover.
Although this section feels somewhat disconnected from the book -- introducing us to new characters at the end of the story -- it is satisfying in that it gives you a final picture of Fenno from another's perspective.
This winner of 2002's National Book Award is a perfectly fine, earnest, inoffensive middlebrow literary novel written by someone who probably REALLY REALLY liked The Hours.
No coincidence that there's a blurb by Michael Cunningham (the author of The Hours) on the back.But it feels terribly thin by comparison.
The narrative is contrived and affected; you can see Glass straining for her epiphanies.
that family is a mysterious thing?
That we create our own families, our own sense of home, wherever we may be?Fine.
Still, Glass knows how to write a sentence.
The three point-of-view characters are an older, recently-widowed man, Paul McLeod, his oldest son Fenno, who is gay, and a young woman named Fern who in a sense ties the whole series of stories and memories together.
(I was relieved there was no clichéd affair to spoil this for me.) Fern unwittingly helps Paul come to better terms with his son being gay, through the simple gift of a painting.The two other Junes, in 1995 and 1999, bring the characters around in a kind of spiral, ending with Fern's portion of the story, and a visit to Long Island.
I liked Paul very much, but wasn’t really drawn into his story.
I loved the middle section told from Fenno’s perspective.
I know it brought everything full circle, but it wasn’t enough for me.The book was a mixed bag.
I would have liked the book a whole lot better if she’d just expanded the middle section to include the first part and then left the last third out altogether.
It’s a hard book to talk about even if I was willing to fill this post with lots of spoilers.
I’m glad I read it and will definitely give Glass another try.
I won this book at our Booktopia Yankee Swap and it was completely new to me.
Each of the three sections of this novel could stand alone as its own novella (in fact, the first part was original published this way.) I love linked stories where characters have connections that they never know about but the reader does.
Fenno is a fantastic and complex character and he and Mal will be in my brain for a long time (maybe in part because both of them make me think of A Little Life?) The third part surprised me but in a good way.
LOVE. LOVE. LOVE. Interlocking stories that weave back and forth through time, across the Atlantic up to Scotland and down to the Adriatic and over to Manhattan. Spans the course of the life of a mother, her husband, their three sons, those sons' marriages and children, plus many other not-so-minor players.Beautiful language, scenery, dialogue, character development. Best of 2011, or at least the last, freshest, and most vivid in my memory. READ this.
This section goes back and forth between the "present" when his father has died and he is back in Scotland with his brothers and their families, and his life in New York a few years before in which he was secretly involved with a secretive nomadic man, Tony, and friends with Mal, a man dying of AIDS.
Throughout, Fenno appears destined to live his life alone forever.The third, and last, section is from the point-of-view of Fern, who I believe is one of the people on the Greek tour with Fenno's father.
One of the things that I love about being in a book club is that it pushes me out of my reading comfort-zone.
Three Junes was, surprisingly, a gift.I've read some interviews with Julia Glass where she discusses the book being about love and loss, and certainly how people are interconnected.
The real theme to me was motherhood, or parenthood, and I enjoyed the different images of "motherhood" (and I'm including Fenno in this catagory)that Ms. Glass creates.
From Maureen, who is more connected to her puppies than her children, to Lucinda, who has to watch her son die (every mother's worst nightmare).
But I really felt that characters like Fenno, Tony, Mal and Fern were roundly and compassionately drawn figures.
The story line takes unexpected and for the most part rewarding turns: Mal's illness was very Michael Cunningham and has emerged as a contemporary theme that we've had a great many literary opportunities to dwell upon.
What makes this novel interesting is what Fenno does both for Mal and Fern as their friends in light of their situations.
The straight-ahead, traditional, narrative style makes for quick reading and Glass, by her own definition, artistically pilots the reader adeptly through her intelligently improvised world.
The author is a good writer but not a great writer.
Every time the story would get even remotely interesting, the author would stop in her tracks and switch to a different time or character.
The father, Paul seemed like an interesting guy, but we never got to know him.
Which leads to the rest of the book; a snorefest about Fenno their gay son, his brothers, and his obnoxious friend Tony.
I did really like the parrot!
It was, however, a good reliever of insomnia for me.
This was a book club read and unfinished by all but three of us.
I was particularly drawn to the main story of Fenno, the intellectual, emotionally disconnected, ever-yearning gay man who takes us deep into a life that smashes stereotypes.Fenno is a perfectionist first-born son who believes that his two younger brothers, twins, are always judging him - for being gay, for being stodgy, for deserting his family to move to New York - yet who fails to recognize that he is constantly judging them.
However, in Fenno's case that style fit his character, and certainly the rich descriptions made his life feel quite real.
I really enjoyed this book--it was both an easy read but also full of substance that resonated well with me.
I think it was especially interseting reading this book in the context that I read Julia Glass' second book The Whole World Over beforehand and also really enjoyed it--but some of the characters make cross over appearances.
More specifically speaking--I really enjoyed the second section of the book that discusses one of the main character's life after he's emigrated to NYC and started a book shop.
The protagonist in the first book, titled Collies and takes place in 1989 in Greece and Scotland, is Paul McLeod but there is no true antagonist.
The protagonist in the second book, titled Upright and takes place in 1995 in America and Scotland, is Paul’s son, Fenno.
The protagonist in the third book, titled Boys and takes place in 1999 in America, is Fern Olitsky.
SPOILER ALERT: Puppies die and the book contains inappropriate content.
We don’t recommend this book to the everyday reader.
The book is slow paced and uses an extensive vocabulary that may bore and confuse average reader.
Also interesting and unusual for me to read, was one of the main story lines followed the life of a homosexual man.
The book didn't deal with any moral issues I associate with this lifestyle, and if this makes sense, the homosexuality was treated as part of the identity of the character, but not what defined him.
It was interesting for me to read a book where the the homosexual character was portrayed as complex and multifaceted, as opposed to having that one attribute be his sole contribution to the story.
Sometimes extraordinary books are about extraordinary things, and sometimes they are about regular people.
This is an extraordinary book about one Scottish family, a normal family, if, of course, there is actually any such thing as normal, and assuming normal includes a little bit of human mystery and tragedy.
The incredible smallness of this one criticism should tell you how much I enjoyed this book.
The second section concerns his eldest son, Fenno, who moves to New York, opens a bookstore specializing in bird books called Plume, and wrestles with his gay lifestyle in the era of AIDS.
The third section describes a passage in the life of a young woman who has come into contact with both the father and son.
Fenno has the largest role in this novel, but I found him the least likeable character.
However, this first novel is an extremely well-written work of literary fiction and it deserved to win the 2002 National Book Award.
My main complaint with Three Junes would be that I would have loved more time with Paul and less with the next main character Fenno.In the second section (told in the first person) Fenno McLeod, who owns a bookshop in Greenwich Village, has come home for his father Paul’s funeral.
In this section - the longest in the book - we switch between Scotland in the days before and after the funeral and to Greenwich Village where we find out about Fenno’s early life in the US and his relationships with Ralph, Mal and Tony.
one of the very few books i picked up and put down never to read. maybe i will give it another try but it was so slow at the beginning i always fell asleep.
In one book, divided into three stories told from three POVs, this author has tugged and sometimes badgered at just about every emotion I am capable of sustaining while reading.
This book is charged with emotion, both subtle and slap you in the face.
The birches cast mossy shadows across the field, and the waters of the burn warble quietly along.
I have never, in my life, had anyone explain what it was like spreading ashes on water, quite like you did.
(Sorry readers - you have to read the book to find out.)
I realize I give a lot of books a four star rating.
And two is that a five star rating is simply rare - the book has to be just shy of perfect.
Three Junes by Julia Glass is, like many of the books I give a four-star rating to, masterfully written.
Gifted authors who have complete control over their language sometimes struggle with making one or more of their character ordinary people - when, in fact, that's what most of us are.
This, and the slightly disappointing ending, prompt me to give Three Junes four stars.
