https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30593.Pnin
I have never read anything like Pnin before. Nabokov uses language like no other writer I have ever read before. I am riveted by this book.The strength of "Pnin" is its title character, Russian emigrate and professor, Timofey Pnin. A protagonist could hardly be more charming and lovable, and his cultural and linguistic difficulties in adapting to America afford Nabokov plenty of opportunity for jokes and puns. The novel is astoundingly amusing, and the prose a sheer delight.
Pnin is a tenderly executed work by the man who continues to prove that he was the colossus of these wanderers- those who kept untouchable Russia alive and intact, at least in memory and imagination, wherever they might have been scattered.
From an early stage in the development of the character of Pnin, Nabokov planned to write a series of stories about about the comical misadventures of an expatriate Russian professor on his way to deliver a lecture to a women's club in a small American town, which could be published independently in the New Yorker, which later was strung together to make a seriously good book.
On the passenger seat of the sedan, his paws resting on the open window, sat Gamlet, the stray dog Pnin had been feeding for the past few months, slowly encouraging the timid animal's trust.
No, he would leave Gamlet on the sidewalk, leave him to Kukushka just as he’d surrendered many beloved things to that man in the past.At that very moment the lights changed and the dog hesitated and Pnin accelerated as soon as the truck moved off and he was away, striking west as so many times before.
There are two instances in this novel of Nabokov cleverly creating a great deal of sympathy for Pnin and in both he takes away our sympathy as soon as he’s got it.
There’s a sense Nabokov thinks of everything as a storm in a teacup, even the Russian revolution and Hitler’s war, from both of which Pnin emerges unscathed as if they’re of little more importance than a thunderstorm.
If you’re God there’s a lot of truth in this point of view and Nabokov can come across as believing himself to be a deity of sorts.
There’s one of the best comic scenes in literature involving the hapless Russian professor, a squirrel and a water fountain.
May I please be privy to your thoughts?Josephine: Professor, we do have notes but they do not concern Turgenev’s prose.Pnin: What do they concern then?Josephine: You.Pnin: Me?Charles: Indeed Professor.Pnin: But why?Charles: Because that’s what is the homework we got – to analyse your publication on Turgenev’s prose, “Fathers and Sons – A Literary Bond”.Pnin: No, no!
Eileen: But you lost your link with Russian Literature, its prospective followers and your dear ones owing to your diminutive circle, subservient approach, vanilla judgement and ill-placed magnanimity.Pnin (pensively): Yes, I have.
Class (in unison): Yes Professor.Pnin: Alright then.
I thank you for spending precious time out and understanding my life..…Charles (curtly): It was a homework, Professor.Pnin: Ah yes.
I would call this 1957 Nabokov novel a tragicomedy, leaning more to the comedy.
Timofey Pnin is a likeable Russian emigre, a nice man, maybe too nice for his own good.
Pnin is an assistant professor at fictional Wainsdell College, probably modeled after Cornell University where Nabokov taught.
He makes his way through life in an honest and but prideful manner, but things never turn out quite the way Timofey would like them too.
I imagine most of the academics and professors who read this novel see a little of themselves in Timofey Pnin, or at least in someone they know.Wonderful character, excellent writing.
Although frivolous by nature, Nabokov's character and the events bring out sympathy out of me as a reader which overlaps the humour quotient in the book.It might preliminarily seem like Nabokov furtively describing his experiences through the character of Pnin but makes brief appearances himself directly addressing the reader and reflecting on tender topics along life and death in beauteous prose maintained constantly throughout the book-I do not know if it ever has been noted before that one of the main characteristics of life is discreteness.
It seems Pnin is Nabokov himself but he himself makes an appearance as an acquaintance of Pnin in the book.
I was standing at the blackboard attempting to solve some mysterious to me equation and professor, waving his hand, would sigh then  get out of my sight, please .
He was extraordinary teacher, demanding when it needed and lenient when he knew that his efforts after all would go down the drain.
I remember, it was shortly after the shooting of John Lennon and we wanted somehow commemorate him, and professor then submitted the plan to plant the trees.
But entering pninian universe triggered this stupid device called memory and I bogged down in own recollections.
If in these beginning pages Nabokov is laying out how to read this work I can only smile, which I have been doing unnoticed since I opened the covers, and conclude that beneath the voice of erudition lies the eye wink of humor, underlined by the cunning of acerbic wit.
Wanting to add humor he takes out an old Russian book leafing through it for some time to build up the tension that will lead to the guffaws as it did and does for him.
Then at the end a masterful transition where in first person present, the narrator introduces us to the young Pnin.
Poor, poor Pnin - pronounced pu-neen, or, as one character hears the name, "like a cracked ping pong ball" - is the somber hero and namesake of Nabokov's fourth and bittersweet novel written in English, and was composed partly in conjunction with Lolita as a vacation for the Russian writer from the parasitic mind of that particular novel's narrator, everyone's favorite European pedophile, Humbert Humbert, or just H.H. for short.
Maybe not as realized a work as other Nabokovs, nor is it the most structurally sound novel around; but poor, poor Pnin’s dignity and decency gave me a pocket of hope to hide my head in from the always descending smother of doom that is you and you and you and mainly always me.
The accumulation of consecutive rooms in his memory now resembled those displays of grouped elbow chairs on show, and beds, and lamps, and inglebooks which, ignoring all space-time distinctions, commingle in the soft light of a furniture store beyond which it snows, and the dusk deepens, and nobody really loves anybody. Poor Professor Timofey Pnin! He just can't catch a break! I really enjoyed reading Pnin, as I enjoy reading just about everything by V. Nabokov, but I feel an inadequacy in revi
I feel a sort of detachment because I am only half way to mid-life myself, and I think when I turn the last page "I need to read this again with another 20 years of perspective." But Pnin is a different animal entirely, sure I will read it again when I'm 40, but I'll likely read it again in a year or two anyway, because it is bliss.
Pnin had taught himself...never to remember Mira Belochkin - not because...the evocation of a youthful love affair, banal and brief, threatened his peace of mind...but because, if one were quite sincere with oneself, no conscience, and hence no consciousness, could be expected to subsist in a world where such things as Mira's death were possible.
Then this guy says, and I quote, “poorly written.” So I says, you gotta be fuggin’ kidding me—we’re talking about fuggin’ Nabokov here.
Guy says, “shitty book.” That’s when I knew for sure that being dropped on his head repeatedly during his childhood and adolescence had had an effect on my friend, Mickey.
I’ll never know for sure as I do not read/speak Russian and am thus robbed of enjoying them in their mother tongue.)The greatest accomplishment of Pnin is the way Nabokov alters his signature (and singular) fluidity to mimic the the halting, faltering hero’s own navigation of the émigré experience, both linguistically and in everyday circumstances.
You have taken with you the traditions and schools of thought from your homeland, but it is never enough to secure you the break-through you deep down feel you deserve.On the other hand, you are somewhat content with what you have, and take some pride in being the stranger, the outsider, if only … if only you could understand the mechanism driving the circumstances.Do you have a goal, a quest, somewhere you want to go?
When your small car drive into the sunset never to return, I will miss you.I will miss the way you demonstrate that life is not Instagram-perfect, but even the odd uncle do see glimpses of happiness once in a while.
من با جادویی که از خوندن لولیتا همچنان توو سرم بود و هست رفتم سراغ این کتاب و خوب بسیار متفاوت بود.نمی شد به جز شخصیت واحد رابطه ی چندان منطقی ای بین فصل هاش پیدا کرد و طنز کار هم چندان پر کشش نیست.
یه فکری رو انداخت توو سرم از عاقبت همه ی اونایی که مهاجرت می کنند و به هزار و یک دلیل نمی تونند خودشون رو حتا بعد گذشت سال ها وفق بدن با اون چه اطرافشون در جریانه.
بعد ها که چرا غ چشمت روشن می شه به روی خاکستری واقعیت و دنیای رنگی مثل کتاب های بچگونه به نظر بیاد ، شاید نه دیگه تنها اشتیاقش که توانش هم نباشه.
Come posso non dare cinque stelle quando durante la giornata, nel mezzo di una qualsiasi incombenza quotidiana, mi sono trovata a pensare a Pnin e a quale altra sventura gli potesse ancora capitare?”Pnin è un piccolo (inteso come poco voluminoso) capolavoro, il cui protagonista -l’imbranato, distratto, maniacale, ingenuo, innamorato, puro di cuore professore universitario Pnin, nato in Russia, emigrato in Francia allo scoppio della rivoluzione e poi negli anni ’40 trasferito in America ad insegnare il russo- è un personaggio indimenticabile, un vero e proprio “uomo qualunque”, un ometto buffo che non si nota se non per prenderlo in giro per il suo inglese approssimativo, per il suo abbigliamento singolare e per le stranezze cui la limpida intelligenza lo costringe, come sapere a memoria il complicato svolgersi del tempo nel romanzo Guerra e Pace.
ناباكوف، چى ميشه گفت؟كند بود داستان ولى دو فصل اخر نميدونم سرعت متن بيشتر شد يا ترجمه، ولى رو به بهبودى رفت،كلا ناباكوف رو درك نميكنم و همه ترسم ازينه كه روزى بخوام لوليتارو بخونمپى نوشت: به نظرم ترجمه ناباكوف به فارسى كار سختيه، توصيفات طولانى اى داره كه تو فارسى به جمله هاى خسته كننده اى تبديل ميشن كه خيلى زود سررشته شون از دست ميره و چيزى جز يه خواب آلودگى وحشتناك باقى نميزاره
Pnin may give the appearance of being a 'slight' work -- compared, at any rate, to Nabokov's alleged ( -- I say 'alleged', only because I have not yet read either Lolita or Pale Fire...
(And of course, I'm always thrilled when any good book puts its characters on the 104 -- as Pnin and Nabokov (the narrator) sway and strap-hold their way one night....; another example is Mr. Sammler, who meets the Negro with the cashmere coat, on the 104...
But I digress....I can also assure you from long and bitter experience that Nabokov's description of the vain and empty dummkopfs who populate the third-rate (err...
In this episodic narrative spanning 1950–4, Pnin is a figure of fun but also of pathos: from having all his teeth out and entertaining the son his ex-wife had by another man to failing to find and keep a home of his own, he deserves the phrase Nabokov originally planned as a title, “My Poor Pnin”.One interesting thing to keep in mind is that the novel is narrated by an unnamed friend of Pnin’s from his days in Russia and Paris; according to Michael Wood, who contributed an afterword to my Penguin edition, we are to understand this as Nabokov himself.
Reading "Pnin" by Vladimir Nabokov would require our familiarity regarding his writing style and his sense of humor.
First Love, etc.Linguistically, this 169-page novel has presented Pnin, an assistant professor emigrated from Russia to teach in an American campus, who daringly uses English "a language he has yet to master" (back cover) in different contexts and we can't help being amused, for instance:"...'Information, please,' said Pnin.
...And with the national informality that always nonplussed Pnin, the young man shoved the bag into a corner of his nook."Quittance?' queried Pnin, Englishing the Russian for 'receipt' (kvitantsiya).'What's that?''Number?' tried Pnin....
I found it thoroughly charming, gently humorous, nostalgic and somewhat insightful into old Russian culture.
Strangely, I found unintended connections between this and the Updike book, both protagonists seemingly disconnected from the world around them, and both books having an "other" woman character sympathetic to the respective central males - Eccles' wife in the Updike book and Joan, the wife and co-owner of the house where Pnin is a boarder in Nabokov's.
Maybe it's no coincidence, therefore, that Updike is quoted praising Nabokov for his style on the back of the Vintage paperback version of Pnin that I read.
Bởi tư tưởng câu chuyện rất rõ ràng: tự do khát vọng vượt thoát được mọi chiều kích của không gian và thời gian.Nhưng cũng chính Nàng thơ Lolita váy ngắn chân dài, mông cong ngực mới nhú, mặt đầy tàn nhang, miệng ngậm Lollipop đã hoàn toàn đả bại “anh hùng” Pnin, miệng ngậm tuyền răng giả.
Muốn xem sự đa dạng tinh tế thế nào hãy xem cách Nabokov miêu tả răng giả, nướu, lưỡi và vòm miệng trong Pnin.
Muốn xem sự lãng mạn tinh tế thế nào hãy xem miêu tả những cánh bướm trong Pnin.
Later Nabokov, oddly sweet compared with the more tart early novels.
Bad poetry is savaged only once.The eponymous Pnin, an ageing expatriate academic engaged in teaching Russian in small town America, is the hero of this oddly optimistic and even joyful novel.
The wonder of putting trainers (Sneakers in certain jurisdictions) in the washing machine and listening to them running round or being taken as some kind of saint or angel as he sits broad smiling with a large Greek cross on his bare chest under a sunlamp outweigh the exile and failed marriage.
Perhaps an alternative self portrait of the Author as a gangly optimist?
Irony, mild pathos, fun, poetry and tragedy of life wonderfully united, through the intriguing invention of a narrator both sympathetic and unreliable.Meraviglioso incontro di ironia, pathos sommesso, comicità, poesia e tragicità della vita.Intrigante costruzione di un narratore partecipe e inaffidabile al tempo stesso.
Professor Pnin was on the wrong train.
He was unaware of it, and so was the conductor, already threading his way through the train to Pnin’s coach.
As a matter of fact, Pnin at the moment felt very well satisfied with himself.”Pnin is a stranger in a strange land – a learnt misfit in search of his singular niche, Don Quixote trying to win over an especially malicious windmill.“‘Yes,’ said Pnin with a sigh, ‘intrigue is horrible, horrible.
The history of man is the history of pain!’”Is Pnin really a stranger or is he the only true human being among all those intriguing academicians?
I read Pnin in 2009 but reread the book today to decide whether my love merited buying an Everyman’s hardcover edition.
No. I’ll stick with Lolita in Everyman’s and, after a reread, possibly Pale Fire.
Pnin is lighter, but by no means lexically less impressive, than Lolita and has more in common with the high-class comedies Pictures From an Institution or Lucky Jim than earlier, more cunning Nabokovs (the unreliable narrator twist isn’t as ingenious as Manny makes it sound).
Despite Nabokov’s claims to this work as a rounded novel, it feels sketchy, it feels like episodes in a classy HBO number.
Nada o move, e o relato limita-se a dar conta da enfadonha ausência de vida, sendo também aquilo que garante a comicidade do relato, mas até neste, Nabokov se perde por trabalhar as suas gags sempre de modo muito cruzado, minimal ou encerradas em conhecimento literário russo profundo.Se quisermos atravessar por entre o vazio interior e o destrinçar dos sentires de um professor universitário americano, sem tão grande capacidade estilística é verdade, mas com um aprofundamento psicológico raras vezes conseguido, podemos recorrer em vez desta, à obra esquecida de John Williams, “Stoner” (1965).“Do ponto onde me encontrava vi-os diminuir na moldura da estrada, entre a casa mourisca e o choupo da Lombardia.
matters appear hysterical on goodreads these days.
Ripples of concern often appear daunting to the literate, cushioned by their e-devices and their caffienated trips to dusty book stores; why, the first appearence of crossed words often sounds like the goddamn apocalypse.
It is within these instances of discord that I think about Pnin.
I situate the novel along with Mary and The Gift in my personal sweet cell of Nabokov, insulated well away from Lolita and Ada, perhaps drawing strength from Vladimir's book on Gogol, though certainly not his letters with Bunny Wilson.
It is rare that I can think about Pnin washing dishes and not tear up.
Such a slim little novel, not much more than a plump novella, but so dense! I had expected to wade through a comic novel based on an extended anecdote, but instead I wound up slowly savoring every word. After the elusive Pale Fire I think my readerly mind has actually made contact with Nabokov's writerly world. Now, if I can only read Lolitawithout James Mason butting in...
It seems odd to put a spoiler warning on this review, but I think that Pnin is actually a mystery.
The most common type of mystery is, of course, the whodunnit.
And it isn't a whydunnit either: it's not one of those stories (Sartre's Les Mains Sales is my favorite example) where you know what happened, but you don't understand the person's motives.No, the mystery in Pnin, which you don't even realize is a mystery until you get to the end, is the identity of the narrator.
I'm struggling to think of another example, but so far I haven't come up with one...
Nabokov sabe contar uma história, não há dúvida, é um autêntico malabarista, mas desesperei em alguns momentos devido a algumas longas e minuciosas descrições.
Basandosi anche sulla sua vita, Nabokov racconta di Pnin, che potrebbe anche essere una sorta di alter-ego dell'autore.
Pnin è un emigré che dalla Russia giunge in America ad insegnare al college, ma non riesce ad adattarsi alla nuova vita, alla lingua e alla scuola con le sue regole.
Oltre a tutti questi problemi, anche la sua vita privata comincia a crollare: litiga furiosamente con l'ex moglie, non riesce ad allacciare un dialogo e un rapporto con il figlio e anche con gli altri compatrioti le cose non proseguono nel modo giusto.
The charm of this novel rested wholly on Nabokov’s portrayal of this kindly, absent-minded, elderly gentleman who despite all appearance of having his hands on all the ropes had a sad past and was unwittingly caught in the web of university politics.(view spoiler)[ Pnin knew little English but he had to give talks in English ("If his Russian was music, his English was murder.").
I felt sympathy for Pnin when I read how shabbily his wife treated him and continued to exploit his gentle giving soul even after she had abandoned him and had a child by another man.
I believe Pnin’s story is Nabokov’s story and the unknown narrator could well be the author himself.
Pnin acts as a kind of rejoinder to Don Quixote, a book which Nabokov had lectured on before writing Pnin, a book which invited the reader to delight in the miseries of another person.The novelists protagonist, Timofey Pnin, is introduced to us in comical fashion; “ideally bald, sun-tanned and clean-shaven, he began rather impressively with that great brown dome of his, tortoise shell glasses (masking an infantile absence of eyebrow,) apish upper lip, thick neck and strong man torso in a tightish tweet coat, but ended, somewhat disappointingly, in a pair of spindly legs and frail looking, almost feminine feet.” Pnin is a composite of comic characteristics, whose appearance is both juvenile and simian, whose clothing is somewhat ridiculous, and whose body is a ridiculous mix of masculine and feminine features, a creature that is destined to be ridiculed.
Wonderful. Funny, beautifully crafted, and very sad.The short length works in its favor I think - there's so much elided emotion here that plays well with Nabokov's precise style.
There's a strange focus on purely visual description to the exclusion of everything else -- for instance a lot of space is devoted to describing the appearance of the boarding school attended by the son of the central character's ex-wife, even though nothing actually happens there and the son is a minor character (much more vaguely sketched than the school, in fact!).
Every chapter feels like it's all dressed up with nowhere to go; there's all of the scene-setting you'd get in an ordinary novel, but none of the scene.I've heard a lot about how this book shows the "warmer" side of Nabokov, but for me the central character never came into focus.
There are some beloved women whose eyes, by a chance blend of brilliancy and shape, affect us not directly, not at the moment of shy perception, but in a delayed and cumulative burst of light when the heartless person is absent, and the magic agony abides, and its lenses and lamps are installed in the dark. ( Pnin, 59)confusing style of writing, known as "Nabokovian" style, made Pnin difficult to follow and read. Although I adore Nabokov, I give his Pnin 3 stars ,as it's bloody boring !
Pnin é um professor russo que emigra para os Estados Unidos. Tem alguma dificuldade de adaptação ao estilo de vida americano e, simultaneamente, deslumbra-se com a modernidade a que não está habituado, o que origina situações verdadeiramente hilariantes. Um romance terno e muito bem escrito. Como pormenor, achei muito curioso o papel do narrador que no final se transforma na personagem principal.Pnin foi o meu primeiro Nabokov e fiquei com muita vontade de ler outros livros do autor.
Αριστούργημα :p https://pepperlines.blogspot.gr/2017/...
"If one were quite sincere with oneself, no conscience, and hence no consciousness, could be expected to subsist in a world where such things as Mira's death were possible. One had to forget - because one could not live with the thought that this graceful, fragile, tender young woman with those eyes, that smile, those gardens and snows in the background, had been brought in a cattle car to an extermination camp and killed by an injection of phenol into the heart, into the gentle heart one had h

Pnin is a witty, intelligent and moving tale of the émigré experience, focalized in the petty and tragicomic perspective of the Russian academic working within an Ivy institution (we can suppose, from contextual detail, that it is based on Cornell).
It is no small accident, then, that language occupies a central role in the story: Professor Pnin's idiolect constantly presents the reader with comedy, whilst simultaneously the barriers of inter-personal expression are also painfully demarcated (the tragicomedy is synthesized in such a neat and fine fashion throughout).
In summary, though this tale reminds one of Chekhov, Flaubert and even Proust-- it is ultimately and undeniably Nabokov whom the lasting impression belongs to.
In fact, I've yet to read a great deal of his work (Ada just kicks me in the face whenever I try her), but Lolita and Pale Fire are two of the most amazing things ever created, and I loved both Strong Opinions and Speak, Memory so much that my Crazy went squee and I now have a shadow Nabokov living in my head, offering notes on diverse subjects.
Perhaps because this one of his more assessable novels (and one without a taboo subject), but it’s truly just brilliant.
I was glad that this book did not end on the note that I was thinking it might—with a truly tragic ending—and that it left it up to the reader to decide what he or she wanted to happen for our humble Pnin.On a side note though, I’ve often heard that Nabokov has a habit of referencing himself into his novels but it wasn’t until Pnin that I noticed this and wondered about the reasoning behind this trick (if anyone has any ideas, clue me in please).
Ah, Professor Pnin, you stand up well to a re-reading.
It is, of course, filled with funny little moments like that one, sometimes at Pnin's expense, sometimes others'.
I liked, for example, this about young minds:Again in the margins of library books earnest freshmen inscribed such helpful glosses as 'Description of nature,' or 'Irony'; and in a pretty edition of Mallarmé's poems an especially able scholiast had already underlined in violet ink the difficult word oiseaux and scrawled above it 'birds.'"So it's funny, but there is an affection with all the mocking, and also an even-handedness, even a sort of recognition of external circumstance, of tragedy that befalls you which is not your fault.
This is by far my favorite of Nabokov and the writing style is first rate.
The line between comedy and tragedy is in this short novel very thin and that is exactly what great fiction is.
That wonderful thin line that almost breaks, but never really does.
Moreover, this novel has really everything for the language lover and reading this story to someone else would be a great experience.
Nabokov knew how to write, knew how to disappoint the reader hard by the lack of plot, but still good readers will love him..
It should be impossible to write like him, really…..
