https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/91418.Benjamin_Franklin
We read this as part of Year 1 of Ambleside Online. Great introduction to the life of Benjamin Franklin with very nice illustrations.
he lead a amazing life
They collectively gave it 3.5 stars.Ellie (6 y.o): I loved it, and I thought the bathtub was really funny.
It was too violent.Connor (7 y.o.): The reason I didn't I didn't like it was because someone almost drowned, and how are you supposed to get your hair out of the bathtub.
I actually like how he worked through the lightning experiment.Emalee (10 y.o.): Reading it was a good experience to have, I guess.
They thought white hair was cool, but it made them look like a really ugly female.
This is the second book by d'Aulaire that I've read to my children, and they enjoyed this one very much. The story was engaging for them. They did have some prior knowledge of Ben Franklin, about his kite experiment, before we read this book. Their favorite part was when Ben was taking a bubble bath in a tub on a ship. I enjoyed reading his sayings at the bottom of the pages. I would recommend this book as a great starting place for children in K-3rd grades to learn about Benjamin Franklin.
Another much-loved d'Aulaire book read for history this school year. My kids LOVE these books and really enjoyed this one. They are excited to visit Philadelphia now and very interested in American history. It is a good way to introduce younger kiddos to American independence.
Our family read this together as part of the Ambleside Online - Charlotte Mason curriculum. We already read George Washington by the same author and LOVED IT! This one also did not disappoint. Buffalo Bill is up on our list next!
This is another of the We the People series for younger readers, this one dealing with one of the most significant of the early leaders of America, Benjamin Franklin.This goes into Benjamin Franklin's history, including how he had an illegitimate son, but later married someone one.
He was a very intelligent man, nevertheless, and was involved not only in politics, but was also a scientist and an inventor.At first he liked the British but, as the situation in the colonies worsened, he turned away from them and joined the patriot cause.
I loved reading this book to my girls. This tells Benjamin Franklin's life story in a way that kids can understand. It focuses much on his young life including the conflict with his older brother that eventually forced Benjamin to move away from his family and try to make a life of his own. Franklin faced many, many disappointments in life, but he was resourceful and pressed on.This book is beautifully illustrated. I especially appreciate the artwork when I think about the lithography process and how many steps went into making each color illustration. My girls loved this book.
4.5 starsHaving just completed a 800 page biography, I took this juvenile bio off my shelf to compare. I think the D'Aulaires did well reducing the facts of Franklin's life to a child's level. As always, their illustrations shine. The pages have short maxims from Poor Richards at the bottom.Delightful sentences:Poor Richard made Benjamin Franklin prosperous.The Americans thought he was too slow, the English thought he was too sly.To the French, Benjamin Franklin was the wizard of the American wilderness.
D'Aulaire's biographies are reliably charming. The anecdote about Franklin's conversation with Thomas Jefferson over the editing of the Declaration of Independence, in which Franklin told the story of a hatter's sign and the quibbling over what should be included on his sign, is the subject of the picture book The Hatmaker's Sign, by Candice Fleming. It is fun to read them around the same time. See p. 38 for the story of the hatter.
Perhaps my favorite of the d'Aulaires' efforts. Three cheers for the inclusion of Poor Richard's proverbs at the bottom of each page. I'm also grateful that Franklin's eccentricity was allowed to shine through, but without focusing on his more Beavis and Butthead-like moments. (Franklin's satirical essay "Fart Proudly" comes to mind. Gotta love the Benster!)The d'aulaires can't do much wrong in my eyes. Our next bedtime read is their biography of Leif Erikson. Can't wait!
Benjamin Franklin was born in1706 and was the youngest. He lived in Boston and wanted to be a writer from ages 10-11. Later in life, He married Debrah Pead. He was interested in in electricity so he performed an experiment to prove that electricity was in lighting. and existed with a kite and a key. since electricity is attracted to higher things, it hit the top of the kite then it hit the key and the electricity stopped.
What a great read. Perfect for the early elementary child. We read this along with watching the series Liberty's Kids. We had many great discussions about the pursuit of liberty and why even Plato in his time said it's important to be educated and always ask questions so as not to fall victim to a sheeple mentality. Truth & wisdom that would serve us well even now...
I read this with my daughter for school, but was surprised to learn a number of interesting things about one of our most famous statesmen. The illustrations were engaging -- both my daughter and I enjoyed all the small details on each page and the way the illustrator incorporated many of Franklin's sayings from his Poor Richard's Almanac into the pictures on each set of facing pages.
We have been enamored with all the d'Aulaire books and this one on Benjamin Franklin is no exception. Colorful illustrations and lively text illuminate the life of a great American.Pages alternate between full color and line drawings. We sometimes start by selecting a line drawing for each little to color while the book is read. Otherwise, following along with the pictures is a delight too.
We are using this book in our history studies. It is a gentle introduction to Benjamin Franklin with lots of colorful illustrations. You could easily read it quickly over a day or two. We are taking one to two pages a week over the course of a month or so in order to add an activity if we want. My youngest is enjoying the book and it is easy for him to narrate.
The boys loved this book. It was always their first choice of which books to read in the day. The information was clear and interesting. The illustrations very d'Aulaire. We enjoyed reading the various sayings of Franklin's listed on each page and trying to figure out what they meant and how one would say them in modern English.Excellent choice for learning about Benjamin Franklin.
My 6 year old son loved having me read this story aloud to him! Cleverly told tales about our well-known patriot, beautiful illustrations, and the bonus of having many of "Poor Richard's" sayings printed along the bottom of each page!
We read the Abraham Lincoln book by the d'Aulaires and were impressed, so we decided to read about Benjamin Franklin too. It was wonderful to read about his part in American history with the kids. Lots of detail!
I've read this book aloud to my children before and just finished reading it again, this time to the younger ones. I think it's a pretty good introduction to Benjamin Franklin for young ones. We enjoy it.
I was supposed to read this to my 1st grader for school but all my children snuck in and listened to it and enjoyed it a lot. It's a good over-view of Franklin's whole life.
Beautifully illustrated and the kids always wanted to read it. I learned a lot about good ol' Ben.
Good book!
Love the illustrations, the history & the story. Very inspiring!
Another excellent book from d'Aulaire!
Well written. These books receive rave reviews in the homeschool community, but my kids have yet to be enchanted with them.
All these books are visually beautiful and well written and an excellent introduction to the character
Really great for learning about Benjamin Franklin with your children! Lots of illustrations! My son really enjoyed this book!
Another beautiful book
X2
