https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/211424.Marxism_and_Philosophy
(this review is based on the extract of this work posted on www.marxists.org)This volume is of interest to anyone with interest in the history of political thought in the 19th and 20th centuries, even if they - like myself - are not Marxists.
Despite the fact that Korsch is very clearly a Marxist, he does a fair job of describing the different strands in Marxist thought, including the "vulgar scientific Marxism" of the Second (Communist) International.
Two, Marx's notion (most clearly articulated in the "Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844") that once "Man" is freed from the shackles of wage labor and private property, "he" will be able to fully express himself in artistic terms (i.e. we shall *all* become artists).
Contudo, de outra parte e ao contrário do que freqüentemente imaginou o antigo "materialismo", nada no mundo do homem é um ser morto, um jogo cego de forças inconscientes e de matéria sem sentido - assim como não o são as "verdades".
Todas as "verdades" humanas são sobretudo, como o próprio homem que as pensa, um produto - e um produto humano, à diferença dos chamados puros "produtos da natureza" (que, enquanto naturais, não podem ser, no sentido próprio da palavra, "produtos"!).
A brilliant book by another overlooked Marxist theoretician.Not very fond of his anti-critique, but his initial essay and the smaller ones that follow are brilliant. The introductory essay by Fred Halliday on his life and thought is also extremely worth reading. This guy led a spectacularly interesting and fruitful life.
An attempt at situating dialectical materialism as the philosophy of the working class and its relation to their revolutionary struggle. Good defense of Marxism against the vulgar theoreticians of the revisionist Second International. Should be read alongside Stalin's Dialectical and Historical Materialism. Can serve as preparatory reading for Mao's On Contradiction and On Practice.
Maraming bright tidbits sa history ng Marxist movement --mula life-altering to tsismisan levels. Central ang dogmatism ng Second International at ensuing repercussions para sa Kilusan. Nagpapatuloy ang mga bagay, lampas sa Second International at Korsch
A fantastic, accessible and thorough work of literature on the history, theory and philosophy of Marxism in relation to bourgeois thought and various political movements. Recommended to Marxists everywhere.
