https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1987.What_Jane_Austen_Ate_and_Charles_Dickens_Knew

It's not exactly everything one needs to know about nineteenth-century England, but it does a fine job at hitting upon most of the little knowledge gaps that can crop up for modern readers of Dickens, Hardy, Trollope, Austen, and their contemporaries.
In the end, this isn't such a bad thing as the book does do its job as a handy reader's companion.
A fun and informative book, but occasionally a little disjointed.
Daniel Pool, an American lawyer by training, a lover of British novels by avocation, really digs into the the customs, mores and behaviors of Nineteenth Century Englanders.
He illustrates his discussion of elaborate balls, courting rituals, stylish dress, transportation, education, royalty and aristocracy, city and country life and so much more by referencing characters from period novels -- not only Jane Austen and Charles Dickens, but also Anthony Trollope, Thomas Hardy, George Eliot and Thackeray's VANITY FAIR among others.
Maybe 2.5. This book has a lot of useful and interesting information in, but it's presented in a very dry way. It reads more like a textbook than anything else. I also take slight issue with the amount of novels it spoils, and the fact it fails to distinguish between words, concepts and traditions that were 19th century or are simply British. Overall, a mixed bag.
Covering the span of 19th century England, the author shared bits and pieces of what life would have been like if you lived back then.
I mention this but I know that New York, Paris and other large cities had just as many problems during the nineteenth century.The author covered the law, postal system, orphans and the difference in treatment of women over time.
I learned that if you were a female, it was rougher on you in Victorian times than the earlier part of the century.Country life, a gentleman's home and what was to be expected, women's clothing and the private world made for some very interesting reading.
Sooo....wanna know who's who in the hierarchy of the Anglican church (you need this if you read Trollope, my little sweetie)? Would ya like to learn all those card games they played way back when people actually faced one another IN PERSON when playing a game? Care about old food, fashion, and social customs? Then this is the book for you. A great browser for when nothing suits and all is vile in litrachuah. I just loved this and wish I still had my copy.
I am a huge fan of Jane Austen and I enjoy reading the works of Charles Dickens.
The author, Daniel Pool though, makes the information interesting and I love how he intertwines the books of Jane Austen and Charles Dickens.
The first part tells about different topics in that time period (Society, Money, Government, The Church of England, Crime &Punishment, Transportation, Food and so on).
A calling card would serve as a way for people to let others know they were in the area and wanted to call upon.
I recommend this book to all those who enjoy Jane Austen and Charles Dickens.
This is a comprehensive—at times almost staggeringly so—look at what life was like for the highborn and lowborn living in 19th-century England.
It’s mainly a sort of glossary about those parts of novels written during this time that might baffle modern day readers but which would have been obvious to people living in those times.
Here, the ins and outs of 19th-century society, its mores, practices, titles, weather, privileges, rights, laws, etc., are explored in detail while using clear, comprehensible language for the layman.
I loved this book from the moment I read its title.
It's a jolly delightful look at perhaps the most popular century ever.
As a lover of all these authors, as well as the period in general, the book offered up one delight after another.As other reviewers have noted, it does grow repetitious (sometimes word for word) in areas, but I suspect this is to make it more useful for those using as a reference manual.
Very enlightening.
Good for general reading, but the author mixes the Victorian and the Regency eras together -- that's a 100 year spread. If you're looking for research, look elsewhere.
Funny and charming. A great reference.
2016 - Re-reading for a Pride & Prejudice RAL2015 - Having waited for a price drop to below $10 on the Kindle edition, I have to say I am disappointed.
Most of the references to literary cites and characters are to books by Dickens, Trollope and that era's authors.
The first part of this book is a series of short essays on various topics, like fox hunting, carriages/transportation, dress for men and women, and the like.
I found this very disappointing and occasionally, having 'turned the page', annoying to find that specific numbers had become 'many' or 'often'.
But I recently had occasion to check a point on debtors' prisons, and I was struck again by how fun and useful this book is, especially if one is neither an English major or normally a big reader of 19th century English literature but who might be venturing into something by Austen, Dickens, Thackeray, Trollope, the Brontë sisters, Hardy, or Wilke Collins (all favorites of mine), novelists who, as a group, span the century.
Pool is an entertaining writer who provides tons of information, often with humor, and also provides a useful background of some of the big parliamentary legislation of the century such as the Reform Act of 1932 and the two Women's Property Acts which are important in an understanding of the novels.
"The past is a foreign country.
They do things differently there".- quote from novel, the Go-Betweens.
The past is "foreign" enough to modern Brits, but even more so to those of us across the pond.For anyone who has read Victorian-era British novels or watched film adaptations and been confused by some of the customs and cultural references made by the characters- this book is a godsend.
The authors of these novels wrote assuming their audience would know things like social hierachy, ettiquette, transportation and other aspects of everyday life.
I also think this book would be useful for teachers and students of high school or college English.
It was also annoying that the author would sometimes reveal key details of the fictional works he referred to, along the lines of this kind of thing: "Prisons were quite grim places at the time as we see in So and So's great novel where the main character dies alone and peniless in prison." Uh, guess I won't bother reading that one!
Still, I guess this might not be a bad thing to have on the shelf as you're reading, if you want to look up something about marriage or schooling or the lives of vicars.

Over 400 pages of definitions, facts, and glosses for the most alien aspects of 1800s England. And there are a lot of them! The nineteenth century saw the birth of much of what we think of as unremarkable necessities of civilization: a police force, basic schooling for all children, a national mail system...This is truly a fascinating read, and one I highly recommend for anyone reading regency or Victorian-era literature.
What a wonderful read! Even though this was the third book on Victorian England that I read this month, this one did have a lot of information the other two didn't, especially to do with specific 19th century vocabulary. It's very obviously intended for an American audience but I learnt a lot. One of the best books on the topic, to be sure, and the writing flows really easily since there's just the right amount of quotes and commentary.
I'm not sure what to make of this. I found a mistake that suggested the author was depending on the wrong sources, which made me wonder about other possible inaccuracies, which in turn ruined my enjoyment of the book (and since I was reading it as research, I was doubly disappointed). A good starting point, but it might be a good idea to check anything you really need to know with another source.
To start off with this was a gift from a friend. That being said.What Jane Austen Ate is good book that gives bit and pieces of life in 19 century England with their confusing currency, etiquette , fashion, law and how life was different between nobility and the working poor. Great starting point if you looking books about life in 19 century England.
I like what I read so far in this book; however, I haven't yet finished it, and unfortunately must move on to something else. For me, this is less a book to read from cover to cover and more of a reference to use when reading 19th C. English fiction. Or, dare I say it, a book to keep in the bathroom to read a little at a time.
A brilliant little resource and one I look forward to making good use of in the near future. Fun and informative with a priceless glossary. If you're looking for a rounded glimpse of the 19th century, consider your search to be at an end.
Very interesting especially since I read a lot of books from this era. This book filled in a lot of blank spots in my knowledge about the nineteenth century.
A nice companion piece to historical fiction set in 19th century England. I was surprised how much I actually knew but it was a fun book to skim.
What does it mean to be "cashiered?"The first half of the book is taken up with short chapters on different aspects of life in Britain at the time, with examples from Austen, Dickens, Trollope, Elliot, and the Brontes, clarifying all the details that would have been common knowledge to a 19th-century audience, but which mystify modern readers.
The second half is a glossary offering short explanations of everything from ague to yeomanry.
While this book is meant for 19th-century literature fans who want to better understand their favorite books, I also find it invaluable for helping me get details right in my own writing.
Almost everything is quick and fascinating to read, admittedly the author sometimes lost me with his long discussions on the difference bewteen surgeons and physicians, barristers and lawyers.
I liked that he choose examples from well-known novels (nevertheless his disregard for Elizabeth Gaskell is quite beyond me) and quoted them to show the reality that laid beyond the words.The writing is engaging minus the sometimes confused and long-winded passages, and I loved that etchings ponctuated the different notions.The second half of the book is a glossary and I haven't read it as such, but I'll certainly keep it on hand for reference in the future.
As a readers companion, I found this book so helpful and interesting! It has brought a new level of understanding to so many of my favorite books!
A wealth of information written in an engaging way. I will definitely be consulting this book again when I need to refresh myself of particulars.
An excellent guide to all things 19th-Century British: labor, love, land, titles, customs, coinage, churches, commerce, etc. Invaluable glossary too.
