https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84136.Fantasy_Lover
Despite the fact that she was a successful sex therapist, she seemed to have little to no sexual knowledge (she kept talking about feelings she never knew that existed, both mentally and physically).
Oh and the cherry on the cake was that this supposed sex therapist had her own untreated sexual trauma, a fact that makes you project your own problems on your patients and therefore makes you a bad therapist.
If it wasn't for my compulsion to finish stuff I started and the fact that I wanted to know what the Kenyon-fuss was about, I would have thrown the book out.
I've been in fantasy mode lately. Hence this book. If I could give more than 2 stars, I would. Sadly, I cannot.
When Julian was 32, he seduced a virgin he had no business seducing and was cursed to spend eternity as a love slave.
So the cheese references really spoke to me and sold me on Sherrilyn Kenyon’s bizarre sense of humor.***mild spoilers after this point***Breaking the Curse1 Love Slave + 1 Born Again Virgin Sex Therapist = the following conditional statement: if they want to break the curse, they can’t have sex for a whole month.
To break the curse, Julian and Grace can’t have at it for an entire month, but they’re both highly creative people who find all kinds of ways to have sex without actually doing it.
"So, what’s your style preference?""For what I have in mind, nudity works best."  Fantasy Lover is an amazing prequel to the Dark-Hunter series, based on Greek Mythology, the love story of Julian and Grace.Julian, who was the most feared Macedonian general of his time, was betrayed and cursed to be a love slave for all time. Grace is the only one who is able to break this curse.Grace is always rational, maybe too rational: she tries to find sense even in lust.She couldn’t very well let him joi
Fantasy Lover is an amazing prequel to the Dark-Hunter series, based on Greek Mythology, the love story of Julian and Grace.Julian, who was the most feared Macedonian general of his time, was betrayed and cursed to be a love slave for all time.
I love Julian, I feel so sorry for his sufferings both in his human life and in the immortal one.
Though there is no Dark-Hunter in this novel, Julian will appear in the following books, which is more than welcomed.
Fantasy Lover is a really great start to the Dark-Hunter series.
This is not my first book by this author and I actually started off with this series by reading the sequel of this story.
I liked the sequel enough to read this story.
The hero, Julian, is to die for, he's a tortured old soul but with so much love to give.
He's been a love slave, trapped in the book,  for almost two thousand years and surprisingly enough he's still sane.
The same goes for Grace, she's got such a big heart and loved the way those two found their way to each other.
What a wonderful read.
3.75 wishful stars  Blessed by Aphrodite’s divine touch, he grew into such a man that no woman could deny him her body. For when it came to the Art of Love, he knew no equal— his stamina far beyond that of any mere mortal man. His desires hot and wild, he could never be tamed. Or denied.  Fantasy Lover is the first book in the Dark Hunter series, a delicious paranormal take on the genie in the lamp, except instead of rubbing the lamp you make a birthday wish, substitute a Greek love-slave for th
Fantasy Lover is the first book in the Dark Hunter series, a delicious paranormal take on the genie in the lamp, except instead of rubbing the lamp you make a birthday wish, substitute a Greek love-slave for the genie, a book instead of a lamp and a month long pleasure vs.
But in this case you have Julian, who is trapped in a curse for more than two thousand years, so he is pretty jaded and on the other hand you have Grace, who is too kind who felt for him and couldn't imagine using someone for their own pleasure...no matter how tempting they may be.
It was packed with thoroughly romantic moments and beautiful sensuality that was sheer perfection for me, and that was even without the hero and heroine actually having sex until the very end of the book.
For me it was full of unexpected twists and turns that engaged my attention so much that I completely lost track of time.I loved both Grace and Julian.
Also, being the book lover that I am, I thoroughly enjoyed the scenes where Julian derives so much pleasure from Grace reading to him.
I know I probably sound like a gushing fan-girl, but I really did love this book, and can't wait to read more of the Dark-Hunter series.
Un libro romántico hasta la médula, con una muy buena dosis de erotismo. Es una novela livianita, pero muy, muy entretenida. Debo reconocer que me la devoré.Al principio, la utilización de la mitología griega para sustentar la parte fantástica se hace un poco absurda (probablemente es así hasta el final), pero la historia se va poniendo tan entretenida, que hasta eso se perdona.
somewhere between 2.5 to 3.
Mi primera relectura de la saga. Y fue tal como esperaba. Sigo y seguiré amando estos libros hasta mi muerte. Fin.Pd: ya intenté lo de repetir el nombre tres veces.NO FUNCIONÓ.Mala suerte la mía.
I mean - YUMMY!) I was always fascinated with mithology, and this one is right up my alley :)Julian is a half-god, cursed in a book to be a love-slave through eternity.
Although he is here for only one reason - to give her pleasure, Grace doesn't want to have meaningless sex with a stranger, but still, they create some good fireworks together XD I felt really bad for Julian, the way he grew up was horrible, and he was used as a sex slave for centuries.
Conjuring a Greek-god sex slave that finds the normal, slightly chubby Grace irresistible?
Not so much.Considering how much this guy has been around....Anything Greek mythology related and I usually love it.
There was a little bit of mythology, along with some Roman and Greek history.
So much longing...Aaannnd, he's been with thousands of women and is angsty while she is pretty much a virgin.soooo original!But, I thought this was a prequel to the Dark Hunter series, so that's why I read it.
Apparently, I was wrong.
Me, wrong?
So, on to the first Dark Hunter book.
This was an okay paranormal romance, but it dragged a bit.Grace was a woman who didn’t have much experience with men, but knew that she didn’t need one, no matter what her best friend told her.
I liked that she didn’t immediately drag Julian to bed when he showed up, even though she was attracted to him.The storyline in this centred on Julian trying to break his curse, and Julian and Grace slowly falling in love.
That being said, although they spent time together, it still seemed like one moment Grace was still resisting, and the next she claimed to be in love with him!
Fantasy Lover is the first romance book I ever read.
So I guess I should blame this book for my addiction to romance.
I have never stopped reading the genre once I started and I doubt I ever will, I am too in love with love after all.
Back then, I was used to other kinds of literature and writing stiles, so even though I liked it I did found it poor and weak.
Also, since I didnt know better, I remember that I thought it idealistic, everything in the end was too ideal and perfect; I felt like I r
Fantasy Lover is the first romance book I ever read.
So I guess I should blame this book for my addiction to romance.
Now, I obviously do know better, that´s just the way most of this genre’s books are like, we get HEA.
Looking back at my notes about this book I can´t help but smile at my younger self.
This book was my first so I will always look at it in a good light; it opened me to a whole new world, I can´t help but like it.
The only way this book is even remotely tolerable is to read it aloud with a friend so that you can truly appreciate the ridiculousness of it. It is repetitive, stupid, and horribly written. I can't believe this woman is being published, and is a best-selling author on the NYTimes list. It's kind of scary. This books also takes the prize for being the worst book I've ever read in my life, and that includes that ones I read during my 8th grade romance novel phase.
WOW I love love love it!!!! Great book I would give it more than 5 stars I cant wait to read the rest of the series
Fantasy Lover is the 1st book in The Entire Dark-Hunterverse Series and whilst it was not one of my favorites, I did enjoy reading it. One of the things I liked about it was the main character, Julian –son of a legendary Spartan general becoming commander of the Macedonian army.  Betrayed and angering the Greek gods, he was cursed for all eternity, trapped inside a book and released once a month to be used as a sex slave by whoever opened the said book.Now, that doesn’t sound too bad!!!! To be u
Betrayed and angering the Greek gods, he was cursed for all eternity, trapped inside a book and released once a month to be used as a sex slave by whoever opened the said book.Now, that doesn’t sound too bad!!!!
That someone is sex therapist, Grace Alexander,
A Greek sex slave…who is known to be good at what he does…wink wink!!!!!
How could any sane woman refuse such a present!!!!!!So, is Grace the one who will break Julian’s curse?
This being the first book, there’s very little world building – some interesting secondary characters that will have their own books in the future.There were some funny moments …
She feels lonely, unwanted and unfulfilled, and her friend Selena gets the idea to conjure Julian out of his cage (which is a lovely ancient book.) Julian comes ready to serve, but Grace isn't interested in another empty sexual experience.
Instead Julian takes those opportunities to unselfishly bring Grace pleasure, not because he's supposed to, but because he loves her and wants her happiness.
I don't want to tell too much, but I felt a need to rave about this lovely book.
Fantasy Lover ranks in as my number two favorite Dark Hunter book (although technically Julian's not one, he exists in their universe and so he gets counted.).
Olmasın?••Bu kitabı bin kere de okusam tepkim resimdeki gibi olacak sanırım.Kitap, beni PNR romanlarına âşık eden iki kitaptan biri olması bir yana (diğeri de Sisli Dağların Ötesinde) gerçekten, bambaşka bir adamın, Makedonyalı Julian’ın, tüm o çekiciliğini kelimelere yansıtılıp iliklerinize kadar hissetmenizi sağlayan bir kitaptı.
İki bin yılını ise kadınlar tarafından kullanılarak geçiriyor tabii Grace onu çağırana kadar.Yirmi birinci yüzyılda tekrar Dünya’ya dönen Makedonyalı Julian görevlerini yapmak, kadına hizmet etmek isterken hayatı boyunca karşılaşmadığı bir şey oluyor: Grace.
Onu. Reddediyor.Grace’in karşı koyma çabaları, Julian’ın hamleleri derken seksi, soluksuz bir kitap okuyoruz.
4 STARS   Julian de Macedônia, Julian de Macedonia, Julian de Macedonia NADA, no aparece mi esclavo sexual.Ya poniéndome seria, me gustó mucho este libro y es que todo lo que tenga que ver con mitología griega me encanta sacan mi friki interior.Es una historia muy romántica, en muchas partes me conmovió sobre todo Julian por todas las cosas que tuvo que pasar y también tiene partes divertidas y otras sexys. Julian y Grace eran muy monos hace tiempo que quería usar esa palabra hahaha me encanta
Julian de Macedônia, Julian de Macedonia, Julian de Macedonia NADA, no aparece mi esclavo sexual.Ya poniéndome seria, me gustó mucho este libro y es que todo lo que tenga que ver con mitología griega me encanta sacan mi friki interior.Es una historia muy romántica, en muchas partes me conmovió sobre todo Julian por todas las cosas que tuvo que pasar y también tiene partes divertidas y otras sexys.
Pero dejando de eso a lado debo reconocer que es adictivo y luego luego me enganchó ya quiero conocer a los dark hunters porque en este libro no me enteré de nada.
When Grace’s friend Selena presents her with the book on her birthday, on a drunken lark the pair calls forth the sex slave and because this is a paranormal romance what do you know it works.
Anyways, Julian has a month to spend with Grace and since she doesn’t want to get laid they get to know each other instead, slowly falling in love and trying to find a way to break Julian’s curse.For some reason Kennyon includes a mini stalker plot which doesn’t really go anywhere.
A Greek sex god emerges from a book to fulfill all of a woman’s sexual needs until the next full moon.
If only it were true...I enjoyed Julian and reading about his tortured past.
Blessed with good looks but treated as an object, Julian sees his appearance as a reminder of what causes him so much pain.
I’m a little biased since I went to school for the same thing (therapy, not sex).
I liked that she saw Julian as a person and not just some sexual object.
Pues la verdad no sé qué decir... La historia está bien, me ha gustado, pero hasta ahí; no hay más tras cerrar el libro. Supongo que leeré alguno más, a ver si soy capaz de enamorarme de esta serie. :)
No matter how much I tried, i couldn't take this book seriously. I don't think it was intentionally funny...
I love, love, love this story. Can I have a Julian :)
Side note : I did read Night Pleasures (technically, the first official Dark Hunter book) years ago, and was so unimpressed that I didn't come back to this series until now.
The characters are the ones that should read as the driving force of the series, with Ash at the helm, but I keep getting pulled into these side stories that take me out of the Dark Hunter core world.
It probably wasn't until I got to Tabby's book (6) that I found myself really starting to care about the characters and world as a whole (although I did really like some parts of the previous couple of books).
#sedefgibiolmayın #zevksizlerokumasın #julianbidanem
(All romance novels are clichéd...but this one was worse than normal, IMO).I expect one or two problems in the novels - personal problems that the characters have - that will be solved by love and good sex.
I just feel like Kenyon is being too mean to the character.
Not sexy.The only thing I DID like: Grace teaching Julian how to read English and the cute little scenes of her reading to him at night.
Kenyon just shoves in every single cliché and plot device she can think of, to ill effect.P.S. Oh. And Julian's a PERSON.
Of course this book is fiction so to make the stories persuasive there are a lot of inacuraties in the myths as I knew them but this doesn't reduce it's appeal in the least.
As usual with Kenyon's books the story isn't full of laughs and giggles.
(view spoiler)[I always wondered why it's usually the male protagonist that has the "bad" past in Kenyon's books.
Grace heals Julian by loving him just the way he is.
You can see that the writer is much more immature(in her work) while writing this book than when she wrote her 20th in the series but it just makes it seem fresh, not badly worked.
That's when I knew I was hooked.All kidding aside, this is a sexy, sweet and humorous book that tells the story of Julian, a one-time Spartan warrior who unfortunately crossed a Greek god who trapped him a book where he waits until being called out to be a love-slave.
Such as when he and Grace (his love-master that really wants to get to know him, not just bed him) takes him out to a club, where they dance:Julian knew every step as if he'd been born to it.
