https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/261441.USA
There is no better observer of the 20th century American character than Dos Passos.
It isn't possible to understand the attraction of a man like Donald Trump to a huge swathe of the American population without an appreciation of the characters Dos Passos constructs to populate his inter-war novels.
Trump is the son of one of these people and would continue the tradition.Postscript: Dos Passos continued a focus on corporate life that I think was started by Theodore Dreiser and continued by authors like Louis Auchincloss and William Gaddis.
See: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Although of an entirely different genre, E.L. Doctorow’s Ragtime might be considered as a sort of fictional birth notice of corporate America.
See https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
There are framing segments which are composites of news stories and headlines, short poetic biographies of major figures, stream-of-consciousness segments called the 'camera eye' which parallel the author's own life, and then there are the long stretches of the traditional narrative.
They show a real sense of HISTORY as well as narrative.
Dos Passos is brilliant at the large scale of human history, and at the smallest scale of individual minds.
Let all of history, from the grandest currents of wars and industry to the smallest eddies in the individual mind, burst forth in front of you.
John Dos Passos knows every nook and cranny of the country.
John Dos Passos knows all ins and outs of human soul so the book is a real gallery of human types.“But the working people, the common people, they won’t allow it.” “It’s the common people who get most fun out of the torture and execution of great men… If it’s not going too far back I’d like to know who it was demanded the execution of our friend Jesus H.
Attempting to tackle Dos Passos' U.S.A. trilogy in one week, Thanksgiving week, nonetheless, was quite a challenge and has put my "book a week" schedule a tad behind, however, this phenomenal masterpiece (yes, I am singing its praises) was worth the eyestrain and resulting bloodshot eyes.I wrestled with the idea of giving the 1200+ page tome three weeks reading time since U.S.A. consists of three novels; The 42nd Parallel, 1919, and The Big Money, however, since Modern Library listed it singly and it was highly recommended to read as one, I held myself to task.U.S.A. takes the reader from the east to the west with stops in Delaware, Maryland, Virginia and on to Fargo, North Dakota and out to Hollywood, California.
Many of the characters are working class people and become involved in radical politics.
The final book, “The Big Money,” takes place in the 1920s, and follows a number of people as they try to ascend into wealth and success, primarily in NYC.
The final part of “The Big Money” returns to a number of the radicals introduced in the previous books, whom are fighting hopelessly against the government (Sacco and Vanzetti) and industry, while becoming increasingly radicalized.
However, USA is told through the prism of the working class, where War and Peace is told through the prism of the Russian nobility.
Indeed, this is "the great American novel"--so far.
It is certainly far and away the best I have ever encountered and, yes, I suffered through Melville's opus about fishing.
The only other instance that comes to mind is Thomas Mann's Joseph and His Brothers.As a course in American history, U.S.A. is strongly recommended to anyone who has done the basic, high school level coursework but wants to actually get the feel of the nation from about 1900 to the Depression--and not just the feel of one character, one region or one class, but a panoramic picture of the messy, struggling whole.It is to be noted that Dos Passos went on to write a number of history texts, informed, one presumes, by the research that went into this trilogy.
I had a habit of writing English papers about economics in literature, so the U.S.A. trilogy is like a dream come true. A student could spend years writing about class and money in this book. What really made it sing for me was my own sadness about the America that could have been and the America that happened instead. Add to that Dos Passos's fantastic voices and it's well worth a read.
The portions of the book that contain fictional narrative are told through the lenses of twelve diverse characters whose lives intersect unpredictably, gradually forming a tapestry of political and economic life as well as social commentary, most of it generally pessimistic about the trajectory of the country during the first few decades of the 20th century.
The pace of the trilogy moves quickly, and the story and its method of presentation are not usually dull, although midway through the third volume this reader found the tedium of the characters’ lives beginning to precipitate tedium in his continued reading of the narrative.
As far as opuses go, U.S.A. is probably about as good as they come.
The opus, grand as it is, contains a lot of cellulose that we don't make active metabolic use of.
But one thing works unusually well in a convention that our generation understands, but Dos Passos couldn't have imagined.
Since the story arc is told in vignettes, with distinct voices, the books can read almost like anthologies.
But unlike other things I read for the same disingenuous reason, U.S.A. was pretty goddamn enjoyable.



Christ, took me long enough, but I finally finished the whole trilogy. And damned if it wasn't totally rewarding. The 42nd Parallel was the most enjoyable of the three to read, with its long, almost proto-beat travel passages and its sense of boundless optimism for the working class in America. As the characters become more and more complex and their actions become more and more intertwined over the course of the trilogy, you find yourself totally sucked into their world. Highlight moment: the end of the second novel, 1919... that shit's amazing.
Astounding! Among the finest books ever written. From this point on I propose that in cartoons, when a character is shown sleepless and reading a characteristically lengthy book, that that book be U.S.A instead of War and Peace.
take for example this poetic epitaph for Andrew Carnegie:Andrew Carnegie gave millions for peaceand libraries and scientific institutes and endowments and thriftwhenever he made a billion dollars he endowed an institution to promote universal peacealwaysexcept in time of war.—p.231But like a fictionalized version of Howard Zinn's A People's History of the United States, U.S.A. focuses mostly on working-class protagonists: ordinary people in modest roles.
It's hard to imagine now just how incredibly brutal American working-class life was before World War I, but Dos Passos observes and reports with clinical precision on how union activism was suppressed without mercy.
Do I contradict myself?Very well then I contradict myself,(I am large, I contain multitudes.)Walt Whitman was talking about himself, but that quote could be the U.S.A. talking in Dos Passos overwhelming series of books that make up the U.S.A. trilogy.
Dos Passos attention to period details of how people dress, eat, room, travel, work, love, play and drink, drink and drink is shown in bringing his multitude of characters to life.But it's the contradictions and oppositions that Dos Passos is concerned about.
But I think I'd find, that while the characters and events have changed, Americans are still restless and still unclear how organized labor and uncompassionate capital need each other.
However, there has been some discussion of these books' connections with some Rush songs, and I do feel qualified to discuss that shortly.Most Rush fans will make the connection with the song "The Big Money", but there two other songs whose titles also bear similarities with these books: "The Camera Eye" and "Middletown Dreams".
The former is the name of many subsections in all three books, and Middletown is the name of the hometown of Mac, the first character we follow in the trilogy.However, none of the songs' lyrics really have anything to do with anything in the books, and since all three can easily be common phrases without any relation to the books at all, I would hesitate to call them direct references at all.
Dos Passos advances his episodic narrative through several meticulously drawn characters that span the gamut of Jazz Age archetypes: the flapper, the revolutionary, the industrialist, the speculator, etc.
Dos Passos uses his characters’ intertwined lives to explore America’s dark side—its racial and economic inequalities; its sexual hypocrisies and double-standards; and its imperialistic ambitions.
The books are rounded out with pointed biographical sketches of real-life figures from the era, and Dos Passos uses the “Newsreel” and often confusing “Camera Eye” sections to enhance the books’ historic perspective.

Read in the 1960s and it was fresh even then when it was 30 years old. Still one of the great novels of all time. Innovated in sturcture and socially correct. It's on my short re-read list!
The USA Trilogy John Dos Passos (1930-1936) #23The 42nd ParallelMarch 22, 2013 Whoever picked these books for the Modern Library list had a GIANT boner for Marx, communism and the worker’s struggle. I have learned more about the IWW and the Marxist movement and brotherhood than I have ever cared to know. The interesting thing about these books is that they open my eyes to see the history of unified labor (i.e. modern political communism), and understand that the “system” that people bitch about.
The interesting thing about these books is that they open my eyes to see the history of unified labor (i.e. modern political communism), and understand that the “system” that people bitch about.
The main characters in this book (for the most part) end up bumming around, stealing shit, dropping out of school, knocking up girls, then leaving because they feel trapped by the system.
Another continued theme in this book is that most of the male characters knock up their girlfriends and then either a) force them to get abortions, or b) leave them.
Thankfully, John Dos Passos restricts that style to certain short sections of The 42nd Parallel, 27 mini-chapters intended to give a broader perspective than those of the expository characters.
This is almost more like a collection of short stories written to together paint a picture of American life at the beginning of the 20th century than a traditional novel.
The cast of disparate characters fractured enough over the rest of the series that by the time I reached a chapter about some particular character I had forgotten entirely which of the stories thus far applied to them.
Its portrayal of morally decadent and heartless socialites in some ways out-Hemingway's Hemingway (see "The Sun Also Rises").
But the trilogy is remarkable for the way it synthesizes the major historical themes of the 1920s shortly after the decade ended.
Dos Passos is sharply critical of capitalism, but recognizes the power of the economic system, which is now larger than (and feeds upon) individuals.
His sympathies lie with the leftist critics, who repeatedly fail to propose a viable alternative to capitalism.
The book is a product of its time regarding race and LGBT issues, although it's worth noting that Dos Passos criticizes characters who end friendships because of racial or religious prejudice.

This is one of the most unusual books I have ever read.
It is difficult to even describe the plot and it takes a while to learn "how to read".
But, you finish with a pretty fair flavor of the United States (politically, economically, and socially) immediately preceding, during, and after WWI.
The more things change, the more they stay the same.
This book is still relevant even though it seems to have been forgotten--like many of the people described in the short bios interspersed throughout (Randolph Bourne, Charles Steinmetz,F.W. Taylor, Thorstein Veblen, Isadora Duncan, Rudoplh Valentino, etc.)I preferred it to The Great Gatsby.
I've been reading this for nearly 9 years. Now I am done and feel like a real American. And in a way that I alone have discovered what it means to be a true American. The series ends phenominally and I can't believe I ever wrote it off as mumbo jumbo that doesn't necessarily need to be read the whole way through. I don't know what I'm going to read next, but this was fucking fantastic. All hail Simon Joyce for assigning the first book. And our trip to New York to study modernity.
(The trilogy as a whole continues until the early 1930s.) In these novels, dos Passos created a new literary style, frequently admired if rarely imitated, in which documentary style clips are used to create background, to relate the characters to political and economic events and to make the novel seem to be a panoramic picture of the state of the nation.Each section of the novel is divided into recurring pieces.
The girl stood in the way of the minister;s marriage to a society girl and heiress of Brookline both through an engagement that still existed between the two and because of a condition in which Miss Linnell found herself.The girl was deceived into taking a poison giver her by Richardson which she believed would remedy that condition and died in her room at the Young Women's Christian Association.On the historical information covered, I was surprised by the amount of activity of socialists, communists, and the labor movement.
Also this was a time of great wealth inequality and there were many people in desperate conditions before the Great Depression even began.
The USA trilogy comprises three books that really read as one continuous story.
The format of the novels is uncoventional: interspersed among the passages about the characters in the book are news headlines, vignettes of historical figures and autobiographical sketches.
There is no single plot, and there is no tidy ending for many of the charactersThe lives are consumed by the search for money, alcohol and sex.
Without this particular quality, the characters' lives seem purposeless.This is a monumental work, a great American novel.
It is long, and there are many characters and details to remember; however it is well worth the effort to read.
As my 11th grade English teacher noted, "humanity's circumstances will always be different, but the human condition never changes."I can't say the novels that make up this trilogy are an easy read, nor did I find them particularly enjoyable, but I am glad that I read them.
The first and last books are noticeably better than the second, but all three are priceless in their observations and as a refresher on early 20th century history.
It was, for me, particularly interesting to note that the passions and idealism of youth tend to be pretty much now what they were then.
