https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/48328.Revolutionary_Road
I let out a whoop of laughter on about page 180, when I finally figured Frank Wheeler out.
This is hilarious because Frank is nothing if not the standard guy, L’homme moyen sensuel: his dissatisfaction with his life, which he pretentiously blames on the conformity and boredom of 1950s America, is actually pretty well mollified once he gets a promotion at work and starts screwing a secretary; the idea of moving to Paris the better to become a 'nicotine-stained, Jean-Paul Sartre kinda guy' vanishes once he starts having more sex; he affects a snooty disdain for his job, but he's actually quite good at it, and, in heartbreaking scene toward the end, when it's all too, too late, demonstrates that he kind of likes it.
For the longest time I just wanted a family, kids, a decent job, and a happy life in suburbia.
The best thing for a young man is for him to go to college, get married, get a reliable job with a steady company, have babies (2 or 3, of course), make friends with neighbors, have birthday parties for the kids, do little cocktail parties with the adults.
It's very real that a lot of people are living the ideal lifestyle and are fucking miserable.And no matter our life situation, we're always hoping for more.
Richard Yates foresaw how the automobile would quickly come to rule and how American men and women could then relax behind the wheel and feel at home on the many smooth, newly constructed car-dominated roads.WORRYWARTS – Frank spends all his work day anticipating April in her evening dramatic premier: “A mental projection of scenes to unfold tonight but nowhere in these plans did he foresee the weight and shock of reality.” Frank is a college graduate but hasn’t learned a fundamental, critical truth: constantly projecting your life into the future is a sure-fire formula for disappointment.
Imagine my surprise when I came across Stephen King's "Best Books of 2009" List (one not condescending enough to include solely those published this year), & saw that 2nd place belonged to Revolutionary Road.
It has different POVs, which deviates from the outstanding film, & the ending is more shattering & bitter than the one presented on the silver screen.Academy-Award winning director Sam Mendes made a wise decision in giving April Wheeler a brighter limelight to contend with Frank's, the husband & sole protagonist of the novel.
So while Mendes has the ability to play sly film director, almost-auteur, Richard Yates has much more to contend with.
It seems amazing therefore that the survival rates of marriage are as high as they are and that more of us are not functionally psychotic.Yates raises the perennial if not eternal question of the nature and implications of commitment.
We try to ‘work things out.’ In order to deny, or at least delay, the possibility of broken commitment, we tell each other stories.
But we tell stories about the future instead, about alternatives lives - in exotic locations, doing interesting work, with stimulating friends and colleagues.
It's just that its humor stings because it's based in the most human of weaknesses: Self-rationalization.Frank and April Wheeler are the prototypical post-WWII suburban couple -- happy on the outside, endlessly frustrated on the inside.
Frank and April are painfully aware of their shallow surroundings, but they've always tried to convince themselves that they're better than this life.
And there's April's heartbreaking lament about the validation she hoped to find for herself in the real world, and what she's found instead.It's not that the Wheelers are unjustified in their decisions -- their backstories flesh out Frank's need not to be his blue-collar father, and April's desperate desire for a loving family.
Frank's obsessive fascination with his own psyche, April's confused and curiously unexplained actions, Shep's doglike devotion, and Milly's blankness work against what is, ostensibly, a character-driven novel.Theme - As far as I could tell the only "characteristically American theme"--a carefully vague phrase used by another critic quoted on the book's back cover--exemplified is something like when "manhood was in flower." Frank and April's planned relocation to Paris is proposed by April, who in a crescendo of wifely devotion and guilt, declares herself a selfish bitch who's never given Frank the time he's needed to find himself and bring his genius to fruition.
The primary characters are April and Frank.
There are themes here about character being revealed in how we cope with stress, with self awareness.
All the characters here are pained.
Perhaps the most overtly pained person is the institutionalized, violent son of a real estate agent.
The characters here are also skewed a bit, with more detail being given to Frank, for example, than to April.
We see inside his head quite a bit more and understand him better.
And that makes it a worthwhile read.Most of this review was written in 2009, but it was not posted then.
Rightfully a classic and will forever be one of my favorites. Damn, that's good writing!The Navi Review | Twitter | Bookstagram
watching this movie last night made me want to read the book immediately after.
the real character in this novel of course, is suburbia.
suburbia, here, is the aggressor, slowly draining its characters of any charms and releasing them back into their after-dinner drinks and their morning commute to the office.
i grew up in a version of suburbia, and while it wasn't in the same time period, and it wasn't as bad as all this, the writing struck a chord in me and it's good that i am away.
April has the idea of a fresh start in Paris, where she will support Frank till he works out what he wants to do with his life.
Passages about Frank's work, and especially his cavalier approach to sorting his In Tray (pages 85 and 124) made a great metaphor for his approach to life, laden with overtones of Kafka - a tough target, hit with panache - much like the whole book.Yates RevivalI read this just before the film came out because I wanted to see the film.
But most of all it made me feel happy (and relieved!) to be single.On the surface, the Wheelers are a perfect suburban family and the embodiment of the American Dream.
Frank commutes from their beautiful home to a well-paid job in New York city while April looks after their two adorable children.
April devises a plan which will see the family move to Europe, so that Frank, a deep thinker, can find himself and they can leave this unfulfilling life behind.
There is an unsettling atmosphere from page one of the story when April's play turns out to be a disaster, and Frank's ham-fisted attempts to comfort her kick off a huge argument.
Frank and April Wheeler, Yates 20-30-something protagonists are, in their own misguided way, dissidents struggling against certain stereotypically oppressive aspects of American life in the 50’s: conformity; the tedium and banality of life in the suburbs and the mid-century corporate workplace (they live in Connecticut, Frank works in New York); in April’s case, against a life of homemaking and childrearing.
I mean, if they want to do something worthwhile with their lives, Frank could become a teacher, or, at the other end of the scale, go to work for the kind of high-powered advertising firm portrayed in Mad Men (he graduated Columbia and has a way with words).
And I can imagine for its time, this book was pretty groundbreaking, and I can see why it's had a resurgence of popularity in the last decade or so.
I've read a lot of books and plays (and this one definitely felt like something akin to an Albee or Miller play) that touch on this topic.
I've read a lot of books that are thematically similar but they all stand out for different reasons.
My main issue with this book is that it didn't have any characters I could root for; not ones I could love or hate.
I've been putting off reviewing this book.
I didn't enjoy reading it, and it wasn't because the characters were unlikeable, which they were.
This wasn't one of them.I get the whole 1950s values/suburbia/trap that Frank and April found themselves in.
I just didn't care.
She was a bored suburban housewife whose only sense of identity was tied into how successful Frank may/may not be in life.I think I mostly felt sorry for their children.I'm tempted to tie this book in with a discussion of Roe v.
Wade, but, once again, I just don't care.
Dateci un bel po’ di stradine serpeggianti e di casette dipinte di bianco, rosa e celeste; fateci essere tutti buoni consumatori, fateci avere un bel senso di Appartenenza e allevare i figli in un bagno di sentimentalismo ― papà è un grand’uomo perché guadagna quanto basta per campare, mamma è una gran donna perché è rimasta accanto a papà per tutti questi anni ― e se mai la buona vecchia realtà dovesse venire a galla e farci bu!, ci daremo un gran da fare per fingere che non sia accaduto affatto”.Richard Yates ha rivelato che nello scrivere Revolutionary Road ha cominciato dalla fine: la prima scena che ha scritto è stata quella decisiva e conclusiva.

The young couple of the book, Frank and April Wheeler, are bougie suburbanites who aspire to be artistic interesting people, and they revile everyone who is staid and boring and hatch a plan to go to Europe for the forseeable future so that Frank can find himself...(This is all a little humbling when you're about to sell all your earthly possessions and decamp for a wild romp through the Far East.) And something about Yates' cold and calculating ability to root out...ergh, to borrow a phrase from Big Daddy of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof": 'the powerful and obnoxious odor of mendacity'...it's like he's seeing right into the stupid petty things you yourself do everyday: all the justifications and weird moralizing that gets a person through life.
3 Stars “No one forgets the truth; they just get better at lying.” Alternate titles for this book include:Not-So-Subtlety Talking About Masculinity Gender Roles SuckEveryone is Really Unhappy Gatsby Thought He Had it BadVonnegat once compared this to Gatsby, and I think that's incredibly accurate. If Gatbsy is about the American Dream in the 1920s, this is a fantastic disillusion of 'achieving' that dream in the 1950s. Frank is a narcissist obsessed with preserving his own masculinity-- the secr
Alternate titles for this book include:Not-So-Subtlety Talking About Masculinity Gender Roles SuckEveryone is Really Unhappy Gatsby Thought He Had it BadVonnegat once compared this to Gatsby, and I think that's incredibly accurate.
Frank is a narcissist obsessed with preserving his own masculinity-- the secretary in the office wore that dress just to taunt him, damn it!
Her whole character arc revolved around her not even knowing who she was, so it was hard for me to feel connected to her at all.It was very hard to rate this, because I appreciate what it was trying to say-- I just don't think I agree with it?
Quando uno dei tubi scoppia, chi legge si sente in colpa per aver contemplato fin dall’inizio quell’eventualità.Sbalordiscono il rigore stilistico e la schiettezza, sbalordisce la facilità con la quale una scena di sesso diventa un esercizio di alta letteratura.L’unico punto opaco sono i bambini della coppia protagonista, nella storia sono un pretesto, mai dei veri personaggi, sembrano bambole.
E’ noto invece quanto siano ingombranti i bambini piccoli.Chi ha dato cinque stelle a Franzen legga questo romanzo e si accorgerà che “Le correzioni”, in confronto, sono un meublè con vista sulla tangenziale
Revolutionary Road, Richard Yatesتاریخ نخستین خوانش: سی و یکم ماه می سال 2014 میلادیعنوان: جاده رولوشنری - فیلمنامه؛ فرزاد حسنی؛ تهران، افراز، 1391، در 248 ص؛ شابک: 9789642438969؛ موضوع: فیلمنامه های امریکایی - قرن 20 معنوان: جاده انقلابی؛ کارگردان: سام مندس؛ تهیه کننده: بابی کوهن؛ سام مندس؛ اسکات رودین؛ نویسنده: جاستین هیث؛ بر پایه همین رمان از: ریچارد ییتس؛ بازیگران: لئوناردو دیکاپریو؛ کیت وینسلت؛ کیتی بیتس؛ مایکل شنون؛ موسیقی: توماس نیومن؛ فیلمبرداری: راجر دیکینس؛ تدوین: طارق انور؛ توزیعکننده

One of my favourite novels, and easily one the greatest ever written, Richard Yates goes right for the necessary to work out who one really is.
Summer, 1955, Frank and April Wheeler are living what to many would believe is the suburban American dream, wholesome friendly neighbours, and for Frank an undemanding job in Manhattan, all appears grand.
Yates, who died in 1992 had so much in common with the people he wrote about, that's why he is so darn good as a storyteller to the flipside of the American dream.
This is one of the best novels ever written about the difficulty in living life accordingly.
"If you wanted to do something absolutely honest, something true, it always turned out to be a thing that had to be done alone."When I think of Revolutionary Road, I can't help but think of a friendemy I was acquainted with some years ago.
When she finally graced me with her presence it was to tell me she'd been outside...in her car...listening to the last part of Revolutionary Road on audio disc.
I was prepared to finally tell her off and to get lost, but this revelation made my annoyance dissipate immeadiately.
Frank Wheeler, once a rebellious seeker of alternative choices, a young social vagabond, the nicotine-stained, Jean-Paul Sartre kind of guy, testing his boundaries and prospects, and being regarded as 'a veteran' (of WWII) and 'intellectual', finds himself getting married to April Johnson, once an aspiring actress, a graduate from drama school.
Despair quietly moves in when Frank find himself wearing a coat, suit and hat, and taking off for work each day by car and train and working in the same office building and for the same company his father did.
However, an emptiness and hopelessness settled in suburbia.Revolutionary Road has this era as background with two young people getting married and living the American Dream.
well, i read the book ages ago and it left such an impression that when i signed up for bookface i stamped the sucker with a fiver.
i saw the movie last night and a word popped into my head: smimsicholy: a specific combination of smug-whimsy-melancholy seen in the work of certain 'important' artists and/or entertainers.
and i fear the obama age is gonna produce a lot of smimsicholic nonsense.i see that dave eggers (the king of literary smimsicholy) and his wife vendela vida (never read her but her name just reeks of it) wrote the screenplay for mendes' next movie.
Fine passages abound, from the opening sequence – set at the disastrous opening of a community theatre production of The Petrified Forest – to a series of awkward encounters with a neighbour's mentally disturbed son, who says what everyone's thinking but nobody admits.What's also fascinating about the novel is how Yates plays with narration.
I found some of the writing around the 2/3 mark a little slack, perhaps because it deals with a certain subject that doesn't have the stigma it had back in the 50s, when the novel is set.
And at times Yates's judgement of his characters – although honest and perceptive – feels a little too harsh.
Punto secondo, Revolutionary Road è lo straordinario e puntuale contraltare di Stoner.
Frank Wheeler, infatti, è tutto ciò che, fortunatamente, William Stoner  non è .
Per potersi guardare allo specchio, alla mattina, magari con qualche rimpianto, questo sì, ma certamente senza rimorsi.E William Stoner lo potrà sempre fare, mentre Frank Wheeler no.
Il primo è “pietra”, e quindi per definizione immobile, il secondo è “ruota”, e quindi per definizione atto a muoversi e girare.
Ma, come ben si può vedere, raffrontando i due romanzi, si può anche essere “pietra” e conseguire obiettivi assai più distanti e importanti di quel che si potesse supporre oppure essere “ruota” senza neanche riuscire a superare il misero percorso che separa l’uscio di casa dal cancelletto di uscita.Davvero due superbi romanzi.
I feel like John Wayne compared to Rabbit Angstrom or Frank Wheeler.
Frank and April Wheeler are a maddening couple.
When he actually starts succeeding at his job in the marketing department, Frank uses every trick he’s got to convince April to drop the idea of moving to Europe.I couldn’t stand the selfish Frank any more than I could stand Rabbit Angstrom in Updike’s book, and I have an idea that hell may be having endless cocktails with those two idiots.
She got a crappy condescending husband, but thinking that moving to Paris is going to fix everything that’s making her unhappy isn’t very realistic.Great book, but a depressing story.
Se o segundo é a ascenção do sonho americano em toda a sua grandiosidade, o primeiro é o ruir de todos as aspirações e a consequente frustração por não corresponder aos exigentes padrões sociais, ou por não querer simplesmente encaixar neles.Demorou a agarrar-me mas a parte final foi bastante intensa e aí já foi difícil de largar.
Acho que é dos que nos parecem sempre melhores no dia seguinte, depois de ficarmos a matutar nele algum tempo.Curiosamente, (ou não) escolheram o mesmo actor (Leonardo DiCaprio) para protagonista de ambos os filmes.
I knew how the story would unfold because I had seen the movie (starring Kate Winslet and Leonardo di Caprio), and I simply cannot fathom the reviews here on GR that describe the bad acting, bad directing etc.
