https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/127567.The_Dolphins_of_Pern
McCaffrey's favourite characters from Benden ect do make a token appearance to wind up one plot thread, but I think McCaffrey loved them too much to ever completely leave them out, they are not central at least.There was one element about the book that I was less than enamored with and it is kind of a spoiler, so maybe don't read it if you are planning on picking up this book.
Especially since she herself goes swimming and they live in a settlement on the ocean with a fishing fleet.Then Readis stomps off to live in caves during thread-fall and follow his destiny with the dolphins....
This was such a great addition to the Dragons of Pern series.
When the settlers came to Pern, they brought dolphins with them.
Once thread began to fall and the settlers had to move north to the caves and as generation after generation came to be on Pern, the dolphins were a forgotten history.
When the current Pernese went South and began to unearth their history, the dolphins were once again befriended and utilized.
These were bottlenose dolphins that came from earth, or rather their ancestors.I really enjoyed the characters in this book and learning more about the dolphins and their relationships with humans.
A fantastic addition to this series.
The young female characters of Pern, with a few exceptions, are good natured and charismatic.
In later books, she lost all of the vulnerable and most of the kind.
She went from being my favorite characters to being among my least favorite.When Mirrim made her first appearance helping Brekke at Southern Weyr, she was charming, shy, gentle, and sweet.
The very next time we saw her character (after she had impressed the Green Dragon) she was an insufferable bitch.
Aramina was a character that I never really liked, but one that I felt sorry for.
This book was yet another wonderful Pern novel.
After all the exciting things happen--after the settlers land on Pern, and are nearly destroyed by Thread, and discover dragons, and set up Weyrs and Holds and Halls, all the while devolving into a sexist&rigidly hierarchal medieval society, and eventually Jaxom bonds with Ruth, and Menolly finds her firelizards and transforms Harpers, and they rediscover their computer and figure out how to end Thread-fall once and for all, and all manner of social changes start being forced through--after all that, this incredibly prosaic, boring little story takes place.
A number of people realize (practically simultaneously) that the "shipfish" of Pern are actually dolphins who travelled from Earth with the first settlers.
To borrow a TV phrase, I consider All the Weyrs of Pern (the book immediately proceeding Dolphins of Pern chronologically) to be where McCaffrey jumped the shark with the Dragonriders series. I will refrain from including any spoilers here and only say that All the Weyrs has the natural feel of a conclusion about it. Then McCaffrey had to go and write two Pern books to follow it! To put it another way, all the books written before All the Weyrs of Pern have warrented multiple rereadings. All the books after, I have only read once.
They remember the Second Crossing, the evacuation of the southern continent (detailed in a novella in The Chronicles of Pern First Fall), but why have the humans abandoned them?I understand why some people consider this one of the less-enjoyable books in the series: dragons hardly enter into it at all, the beloved characters featuring in the other books (F'lar, Lessa, Robinton, Menolly, Jaxom) are all on the sidelines here, and too many of them (Aramina and Lessa in particular) seem to have unwarranted narrow-mindedness.
I would have enjoyed this installment more if Readis' mother hadn't had such antipathy for her son's work with the dolphins. It really didn't make any sense at all and just added unnecessary conflict. The confrontation with Toric was also superfluous.
I really enjoyed this one. The dolphins add a new dimension to the Pern stories. I wish they could have been reintroduced earlier. However, I love what they bring to the series.
McCaffrey's favourite characters from Benden ect do make a token appearance to wind up one plot thread, but I think McCaffrey loved them too much to ever completely leave them out, they are not central at least.There was one element about the book that I was less than enamored with and it is kind of a spoiler, so maybe don't read it if you are planning on picking up this book.
Especially since she herself goes swimming and they live in a settlement on the ocean with a fishing fleet.Then Readis stomps off to live in caves during thread-fall and follow his destiny with the dolphins....
You can't not love the dolphins, they're so happy and clever and so loyal to their traditions and duties to 'mans'.This book gives some nice depth to events after the victory over the Red Star and adds a good element of the dolphins which are mentioned now and then before and it's nice to see them finally embraced.
They are such chipper things and I love how they express themselves and their 'games'.The ending does seem to be a bit sudden but that might be me wanting more of the dolphins and less of the Toric situation but it's a lovely ending with the dolphins and Readis finally being recognised.
Maybe it wasn't the best idea to start a series from the thirteenth (!) book, but I still did it.This novel tells a story about dolphins and their importance on the planet of Pern.
Also there were a few plot points that wasn't really necessary for the whole story and I disliked it when random event occurred that didn't contribute to the main story.I would probably enjoy it much more if I started the series from the beginning, but still it wasn't that bad as I thought it would be.
I might give this series another try some time in the future.
A feel-good story and not for people who want blasters and battling spaceships, but another enjoyable Pern book if you like that kind of story.
On ne peux pas dire que ça soit une lecture vraiment essentielle mais pour continuer dans le plaisir de cet univers avec des personnages très sympa et une petite intrigue tout à fait dans l'esprit de la série, c'était la lecture idéale.Pendant de nombreuses années, les dauphins ont été les compagnons maritime préférés des humains, ils les guidaient pour leur faire éviter les tempêtes et leur signaler les meilleurs zones de pèche, le tout accompagnés par leurs fidèles compagnons humains qui faisaient le lien.Mais petit à petit les humains les ont oubliés.
But I know these are the threads of the next books and the evolving of Pern, so I shouldn't complain.Though I have the hardback, I now prefer to read on Kindle where it doesn't hurt my eyes.
I think, knowing that Anne McCaffrey is of Irish descent, I expected a brogue to come from the sea holds rather than what sounded a southern drawl.
R.I.P. to my most favorite author.Let the all humans, firelizards, dolphins and dragons keen:Drummer, beat and Piper, blow Harper, strike and Soldier, go Free the flame and sear the grasses As the dawning Red Star passes...Until eternity passesFor Anne McCaffrey
However, the book suffers a similar fate to The Renegades of Pern - there's no overriding plot with any sense of urgency, so it's really a bunch of fragments.
This book set parallel to All the Weyrs of Pern in the beginning, but there's no freshness in the world.
I'm not really a fan of Pern post-AIVAS, since it upended the society that I found so fascinating.
It's not the worst of the Pern books, but The Dolphins of Pern is part of the downward spiral that made me abandon the series.
This book is parallel to The All the Weyrs of Pern in that it takes place in the same time frame.Readis is a youngster who develops an interest in "Ship Fish" (Dolphins) when they rescue him from a sinking skiff (during a storm).
The story revolves around around this link between Readis and the dolphins as the fact of talking (and helping) "ship fish" clashes with the hidebound culture of Pern that is already reeling from the discovery of AVIS (for more on AVIS, read the parallel book) and the projects that evolve from that.It's written in McCaffrey's usual style that actually makes me comfortable while reading about the problems the characters have to overcome.
McCaffrey took one of my favorite characters from the last book, Aramina, and turned her into a shrewish, unsympathetic, two-dimensional twit.
The storyline with her son going off to make his own hold was like something out of a nine-year-old's diary ("I'm going to run away and make my own hold and live with dolphins and THEN they'll be sorry"), and there just wasn't anyone in the story I liked, at all.I know I sound bitter, but this was an author I really liked.
I read her books voraciously, and then suddenly the work turns to crap.
This keeps happening to my favorite authors for some reason.(Varley, I'm looking at YOU here.)
After reading some of the reviews of this book on Goodreads, i was afraid to read it.
I have been a fan of the Pern series for many years.
The major complaint about this book was that it really had little to do with the dragons and familiar characters.
Dolphins were brought with the first settlers, and were an integral part of society.
Did I miss the dragons?
Yes. Did i enjoy the dolphins?
Also, yes.
I think that most fans of the series can embrace the difference, secure in the knowledge that our dragons will return.
Another chronicle of Pern. If you've enjoy your time on the planet before this will give you more of the same. This novel explores the oceans of Pern and the community of dolphins that have long been forgotten by the humans and dragons. I didn't find it compelling or exciting or satisfying, but a healthy diversion.
Another good Mccaffrey read. Love the dolphins.
The story takes place at the same time as the events on "All the Weys in Pern" so AIVAS is still functional and guiding the Dragonriders towards its mission of diverting the Red Star.
AIVAS informs the Bernese that Shipfish are really Dolphins and that they came to Pern with the original settlers.
Due to a genetic improvements Dolphins can speak and their language is close to that of current Pern.
The other character of note is T'lion Bronze Rider of Gadareth and long time friend of Readis.
Learning that Dragons enjoy the company of Dolphins and the benefits that Dolphins can bring to Pern.
What is this 'Pern'?" You get a little curious, but then you move on.Then, a few weeks later, you stumble on The Dolphins of Pern at a Goodwill store, and you say What the heck; I've heard good things about McCaffrey, haven't I?
You've got nothing else that urgently calls to you, and you're curious enough to try....
There are random insertions of sub-plots; there are characters so flat you sometimes wonder whom you're with from page to page; and there is this whole great world of Pern--with all of its circumstances and ostensible dynamics--that just never takes on much flavor at all.
The previous book told the story of how the Pernese found Aivas, a forgotten Artificial Intelligence system left from the early settlement and how they developed a method to end Threadfall for good.This book starts around the time Aivas has been discovered and tells the story of how dolphins were (re-)discovered in Pern and how the human settlements organised themselves to re-introduce the mutual help between dolphins and men.
Dolphins were actually referred to indirectly in the earlier books and called "shipfish", creatures who allegedly helped human in distress in the sea.As frequently encountered in earlier books, this one is also telling the story of the personal development of a Pernese boy (Readis) and how he develops an affinity to these wonderful creatures.
Je pensais que j'allais m'ennuyer un petit peu avec ce tome, qui a l'air d'être davantage une « annexe » à l'histoire principale qu'une réelle avancée, mais en réalité, je me suis régalée !Ce tome fait une rétrospective de la vie des dauphins sur Pern depuis leur arrivée sur la planète, et du coup, on a un bel aperçu de leurs aptitudes et de leur importance depuis des milliers d'années.
On découvre donc un nouveau groupe animal aux capacités extraordinaires, à l'instar des dragons et des lézards de feu et, en parallèle, grâce à la rétrospective de leur arrivée sur Pern, on apprend beaucoup d'éléments très précieux sur le passé de Pern et Siaav (Aivas en VO).
Somewhat similar to Renegades of Pern, in as much as a fair chunk of the book covers the same time period as Weyrs of Pern, just from a different angle.
After Renegades and Weyrs concentrating on established characters, this one concentrates a lot more on 'new' characters - Readis and T'lion, and for the most part this goes well, but does towards the end rehash plot points from previous books, but less strongly, with one existing character seeming to change in nature quite a bit.
Nonetheless, overall enjoyable read, and we get to see some of the post Weyrs of Pern world, which is fleshed out further in Skies of Pern.
I THOROUGHLY enjoyed this book!
I'm a huge Pern fan...reading the original series again for 3rd or 4th time...I thought I had read this one, but it didn't seem familiar at all...I found the interactions between humans and dolphins and especially the charming childlike-ness of the dolphins just what I needed to read right now.
I get what others say about it not adding to the overall plot of Pern...but I still thoroughly enjoyed the dolphin/human interactions and found it all so charming and a downright balm to all my recent emotional turmoil.
I need to read more books like this that make me feel this good.
I've always enjoyed re-reading this book.
Readis is an interesting character and develops nicely through adulthood, other interesting and likable characters (the dolphins are a lot of fun) are introduced and we get to see further developments in the continuing progress of the people of Pern.
Strangely Aramina (and Jayge to a degree) become overly controlling parents and are annoying to the reader while being the driving reason to give Readis his motivation throughout the story - I think the author could have done better there.
Overall a good read if you just want more Pern in your life.
My one big problem with the book is that it is not mainly about Readis and T'Lion and the Dolphins.
It is a transition book between the "traditional" Pern books and the ones that will take place centuries in the future.
It is a Companion piece to "All the Weyr's of Pern", instead of really a stand alone that deals with the Dolphins.
Which is really what I wanted or expected, a book about re-finding the Dolphins of Pern.
Otherwise, this was a really good Pern story.
What a mess this book is. I adored the dragon books and had great hopes for this one, since she endowed dragons with such wonderful, distinct personalities. But no luck. Very lackluster and flat. I know that much of the action that is referred to in this book is gone into much more thoroughly in other books, but some things are so important that it is just odd to see them mentioned without much ado here. Thread being conquered is merely mentioned in passing, as is Aivas "dying" when Robinton does. Very much a lost opportunity.
25 Ara & Jayge left the northern continent because Ara no longer wanted to hear dragons. They became ship wrecked on the southern continent closer to where Cove Hold was set up than to Southern Hold with Toric. Alemi & Readis are ship wrecked in a storm and they are saved by shipfish that talk to them. Alemi learns from AIVAS tells him they are dolphins and came with the founders, they can talk and there use to be a Dolphin Hall. Readis wants to play with the dolphins but Ara refuses to let him.
