https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1069429.Threepenny_Novel
Some passages are both hysterical and devastating; MacHeath's dicovery that profit-sharing actually earns him more rather than less money, Peachum's reasoning out that murder is the most efficient form of business, or his discovery of insurance as a means of squeezing even more blood money from the poor, the history of the Rothchild's bank disarming the world by being honest in business (they make a fortune simply because no one else has ever done that before!), and the fabulous set piece of Fewkoombey's dream-trial at the end, which takes on the preacher's exposition of Jesus' parable of the talents as God's commandment for all of us to live everyday as unprincipled capitalists or hapless slaves, whatever our lot may be.
People are surely not animals, they evolved further than the chimpanzees.
Would they do that if nobody knew?I thought that they would and then when I finished this book it only enforced my belief.
Threepenny novel is as cruel as i do believe people are.Perhaps someone will think that the world has become more 'civilized' since the beginning of the 20th century and therefore this book is not a real account of life nowadays.
Perhaps someone will say we've gotten better and in case we haven't we have institutions, laws and codes now which would make this story impossible in 2010.It's a superb book!
Ένιωθα ότι η ανάγνωση κυλούσε πολύ αργά (γι' αυτό και τα 4*).Πέρα, όμως, από τα προφανή, ο Μπρεχτ παρουσιάζει τη διαφθορά της υψηλής κοινωνίας του Λονδίνου, τις αδικίες, τις ταξικές διαφορές, την αλαζονεία των αρχόντων, τα οικονομικά και προσωπικά συμφέροντα ως προτεραιότητα, την εκμετάλλευση, την αδιαφορία απέναντι στη φτώχεια, το χρήμα που κυριαρχεί, το έγκλημα, το φόνο, τη διαφθορά, τη διαφθορά και τη διαφθορά.
Και ίσως αυτό να ήταν εκούσιο, επειδή λίγο πριν το φινάλε έρχεται αυτή η (κατα κάποιον τρόπο) ρομαντική προσέγγιση, με ένα πολύ όμορφο, συμβολικό χωρίο, το οποίο με άγγιξε και επανέφερε στο μυαλό μου τους λόγους για τους οποίους λατρεύω τον Μπρεχτ.
تدور الاحداث في بدايات القرن الماضي في العالم الخلفي لشوراع لندن حيث مجتمع اللصوص والشحاذين ورجال الاعمال المحتالين.
ومن خلال ذلك العالم تكتشف علاقات الاشخاص المتشابكة والقائمة علي المصلحة واستغلال حاجات المعدمين وتجنديهم لتحقيق اكبر قدر من الربح.الرواية تُسلط الضوء علي جشع الرأسمالين وتضحيتهم بأي شيء في مقابل تحقيق الارباح حتي وان كان الثمن ارواح بعض الابرياء,الاسلوب السردي كان يغلب عليه التكثيف في الاحداث وذلك يضعك في حالة تركيز دائمة لكي لا تفلت منك اي معلومة تفقد معها تتبع الخط الدرامي.
الي جانب تدخل بريخت الدائم وقيامة بالتعليق علي الاحداث وانتقاد الشخصيات وهو اسلوب غير شائع بين الادباء.
Ich finde seine Argumentation allerdings nicht überzeugend, sondern glaube, dass sie nur aus den üblichen marxistischen Vorurteilen besteht.
Interessant dabei ist, dass Brecht die Arbeiter und Soldaten auf der gleichen Stufe sieht: beide Gruppen, die gleichmäßig von den Kapitalisten und Kriegstreibern ausgebeutet werden, gehören der unteren Klasse an.
Brechts Antwort ist, dass die Arbeiter bis zur Erschöpfung ausgenutzt werden.
What is interesting here is that Brecht views workers and soldiers as being on the same level: both groups, which are similarly exploited by capitalists and warmongers, belong to the lower class.Macheath believes in social Darwinism: the weak perish and the strong prevail.
Brecht's only novel is, of course, based on his own Threepenny Opera, which was itself based on John Gay's The Beggar's Opera.
Set in Victorian London, the novel feels similar to Dickens in many ways, but written with a very dry humour and none of the sentimentality.
A satirical yet rather subtle attack on capitalist society, Brecht's vision here is of a world in which the poor and weak are continually exploited in the most casual fashion by the powerful and unscrupulous who always come out on top.
William Morris is capable of writing Utopia, and George Bernard Shaw is not ashamed to discuss higher topics such as religion and philosophy (Saint Joan, Man and Superman), although some of his earlier works deal with the world of slum housing and prostitution.Threepenny Novel is similarly set in this rather grim world, in which there are no greatly sympathetic characters, and society is just a matter of powerful people dishonestly competing with one another and exploiting those beneath them.The plot is incredibly convoluted, and I apologise if I misrepresent it.
Il mondo in cui viviamo è un mondo sordido e meschino, in cui non c'è posto per la bontà d'animo e la sincerità.Il personaggio più puro è il veterano Fewkoombey, che trova parola soltanto all'inizio e alla fine del romanzo, ma poi si perde nei meandri delle manovre dei suoi padroni, scompare e così ogni bussola morale.
C'è spazio soltanto per l'inganno, per la ricerca del profitto, sfrenata e spietata, per il delitto senza rimorso.Forse qualcuno trova un po' di spazio per rendersi conto della crudeltà della propria vita, ma è un attimo passeggero, che si lava via col denaro o con il successo.Leggere un libro del genere fa male all'anima, dà fastidio.
I have found the translation made in this book seems to be to quite faulty at certain passages, and I would have wanted to read a more flowing, cohesive structure for a novel, but I think the book was designed as such (or left as such by the translators Desmond I.
You just change some words referring to places, people, or events, and you'd get transported to what have been happening nowadays.However, there seems to be a lack of appreciation in describing or even in highlighting the role and inspiration from Divine sources in a more direct manner, but, nevertheless, the curious regular reader gets to be reminded as well of this apparent absence.
Bunlardan biri de aslında içimden hep kurduğum alalade olan cümle: "ah keşke herkes iyi insan olsa,şartlar imkan vermiyor buna."Polly'nin tasvirinde burna gelen şeftali kokusu ve retinadaki şeftali tonlarında giyinmiş kadın figürü; Fewkoombey'in çileleri ve çilelerine rağmen aklından çıkaramadığı yarım kalan ansiklopedi; dönemin meşhur konularına yapılan göndermeler (Spiegel) sanırım en sevdiklerimden birkaçıdır.Her kitaptan sonra buraya gelip kitaptaki beğendiğim paragrafları aradığımdan bundan sonrası benim gibi arayış içinde olanlara amme hizmeti olsun:"üzüntülü insanlar, başkalarına karşı her zamankinden daha umursamaz olurlar.""kamuoyunda, para karşılığında halka ışık tuttuğu için kendisini ayna (mirror) diye adlandıran bir gazetede, bu dükkanlardan çalınmış jiletlerin u-dükkanlarında satıldığının görüldüğü ima edilmekteydi.""kendi bindiği dalı kesen, üstelik ağaçtan düşmeden önce hava parası verenlerdenim.""bazı üniversite hocalarımızın asistanların çalışmalarına sahip çıkıp altına imza atmaları gibi.""...sömürülebilecek en uygun kişilerin kendi yanında çalıştırdıkları olduğunu anladı.""onlar kendi ailelerini korurlarken, sadece onları düşünürlerken, elbet bazı aileler de köprü altına düşmelidir.
This somewhat tortuous intro allows me to highlight that the novel impart replicates Brecht’s original lyrics for the famous song “Mack the Knife” being MacHeath!I had heard the name of Brecht but didn’t know much else.
Along comes the shady broker Coax who gathers together a group of investors, including Peachum, to buy some rotten boats, and with the connivance of Hale (the government purchaser) to sell them at huge profit.
I had no idea about any of the background to the novel at all, not even the play it’s based on, John Gay’s Beggar’s Opera.
It was important to him that the play he originally wrote, Threepenny Opera, and this subsequent novel should serve as a vehicle for his ideas about capitalism and its impact on the masses.
In this regard, it has not lost its relevance to our lives.The plot twists and turns around various characters and chiefly centres on the business rivals Peachum, Coax and Macheath.
Brecht has built on Gay’s characters to create vivid portrayals of archetypal capitalists.And that’s why the novel is so relevant today.

تلك الأعمال المُترجَمة وغيرها، مثلها مثل بعض أعمال ديكنز القصصية (المثال الحاضر في ذهني الآن) مع الف

Beş Paralık Roman, kapitalizm denen sistemin pisliğini tokat gibi çarpıyor yüzünüze.
Hikayemiz 1900 lerin başında geçse de, 2014 yılından bir kesit gibi.
Sistemin ve pisliğinin hiç değişmediğine tanık olmak tuhaf.
Topu sisteme atıp bir köşeye oturmamıştır Brecht, (belki bu nedenle bunca etkili ve ölümsüzdür?) derin bir sorgudadır bireyler roman boyunca.Sevgi Soysal gibi derin, eşsiz bir yazarın çevirisiyle okumak ayrı bir zevk İletişim yayınlarından çıkan Beş Paralık Roman'ı.
Roman hakkında en güzel değerlendirmeler Walter Benjamin'in sonsözünde, kitabın içerisinde.
Brecht Üç Kuruşluk Opera'dan sonra yazmış bu romanı.
Ben bu romanın önceli olan oyunu okumamış, herhangi bir yorumunu izlememiştim, en kısa zamanda yapabilmek istiyorum.
الروايه الى حد ما تقيلهولكنها تناقش مشكلة الثروه(راس المال) بصراحة الفكره ماشية بشكل ممتاز ولكنهناك بعض المشكلات التي واجهتني فى القراءهفمثلاً يسهب الكاتب فى الخطب سواء كانت للنفس او للغيرالنهاية كانت غريبه بس االلى انا قدر اقوله و على رأي البلوج اللى اسمه القارئ الشعبيhttp://re-titling-history.blogspot.com/انا كنت سميت الرواية دي"تيجي كده تروح كده ....اكلك .اكلك"بجد بيبين ازاي الغني بيزداد بفقر الفقير غنيمشكلة كل المجتمعات وكل العصور والرأسمالية السعيدهآه نت هنسىالطباعه من الهيئة العامه للكتاب وعلي غير عاده معي سيئةالترجمه كانت مناسبة جداًاما كتابة النص فأحتاجت الكثير من فك اللوغاريتمات اللي فيها بسبب الزيادة او النقص فى الحروف والكلمات والجمل.
البنسات الثلاثه الفكره فى حد ذاتها متداوله وقدمت من قبل فى أعمال كثيره ولك بأمانه الكاتب هنا عميق جدا فهو يتناول المشكله من الجذور وبطريقه سلسه دقيق الوصف لشخصيات روايته ومن الواضح أنه عايش جزء كبير من هذا الواقع أو بصره عن قرب حتى يقدم هذه الروايه المجتمع الرأسمالى الذى تتحلل فيه الأخلاق والقيم ويصبح أهم شىء هو جمع المال ومن أى مصدر وواقع الطبقات التى تعيش تحت الأرض وتضطر أو تسعى للعمل بالاعمال القذرهروايه رائعه
عمل أدبي في منتهى الروعة والخطورة وتميز من الدرجة الاولى جمع الكاتب افكاره وايدولوجيته وبين السخرية والحكي والسرد بتميز فائق الكاتب عرض فكرة جشع واستغلال الرأسمالية وكيفية تسخير الراسماليين لكافة الوسائل كالاعلام والدعاية واجهزة الامن والبسطاء لحداع واستغلال الجماهير لتحقيق مصالحه الخاصة لو أردت ان تقنع احد بعيوب الرأسمالية ورجالها لما وجدت أفضل من هذ الكتاب
الكتاب أفضل مثال للحال الهباب اللى وصلته الترجمة، وعشان يكملو جريمتهم على أكمل وجه، عملو أسوأ طباعة؛ الكتاب مليان أخطاء طباعية لدرجة إن مفيش صفحة خالية من اربع خمس كلمات غلط! ومع ذلك هأجله لفترة أهدى شوية،أجازة ممكن، عشان بس الخمسة جنيه ونص اللى اندفعوا فيه.ـــ22/4/2013مش قادر اكمله.. كرهت الروايات السياسية
رواية جامدة جداً , الوحيدة لبريخت  مركزة اوي علي انتقاد المجتمع البرجوازيو فقر العالم و كمية الشر المهولة الموجودة في النفس البشرية .أعاد تقديمها الشاعر العظيم نجيب سرور في نص بعنوان ملك الشحاتين .الرواية صادرة عن مكتبة الأسرة ترجمة شفيق مقار
المسرحية اجملبس ميمنعش ان الكتاب فيه شوية تعابير حلوة
Kerjäläisromaani on kapitalismisatiiri ja kirja, joka ei todellakaan istunut makuuni.
No, liikemiesten välienselvittelyt eivät välttämättä ole hohdokkain romaaniaihe muutoinkaan.Toinen liikemiehistä on laivanvarustaja, kerjäläiskuningas ja toinen halpistavaraketjun omistaja.
Äijät käyvät kauppaa ihan kaikesta ja siitäpä tämä kirja kertookin kuivakkaasti kuin homehtunut hapankorppu.
Romaani perustuu näytelmään ja se on hyvin asetelmallinen.Pahinta kirjassa oli kieli.
Se oli tiivistä ja informatiivistä.
Käsittämättömän raskasta lukea.
Pääsin loppuun hyppäämällä yli joka toisen sanan, virkkeen ja lopussa jo varmaan kappaleenkin.Ajattelin antaa kirjalle kokonaisen yhden tähden.
Mutta sitten mietin naishenkilöitä, joiden piti olla vaihdon välineitä heidänkin, mutta jotka tekivät ihan omia siirtojaan.
Siitä hyvästä yksi tähti "Persikalle" ja toinen Fannylle.
Kitap, döneminde büyük heyecan yaratmış olabilir ama doğduğunda Bangladeş'teki çocuk işçilerin dokuduğu yeşil beze kundaklanan günümüz nesli için bu denli didaktik bir eser zaman zaman sıkıcı olabiliyor.
Zira Brecht'in gözümüze sokmaya çalıştığı, etrafımızı kuşatan sistemin, insanları sömürüye değil, sömürülmeye; hırsızlığa değil, soyulmaya karşı olmaya güdülediğini her saniye yaşayarak görüyoruz.Kitapta, zamanında adi hırsızlıklarla insanları soyan bir insanın medeni yollarla insanları soyan bir tüccara evrilmesi ve bu kişi etrafındaki üç kağıtçılar, alavere dalavereciler, kısaca bu yolun yolcuları anlatılıyor.
Ne yazık ki kitapta anlatılan fikirler dahi antikapitalizm ve antiemperyalizmin "çok satan" ismi Brecht'in sistemi beslediğini inkar etmeye yetmiyor ama en azından sistemi besleyenin, bireyin değişim için ümitsizleştirilmesi olduğunu düşündürüyor.

Brecht wrote this novel for his loyal audience, who had applauded the criminal Macheath in 1928 the same way they'd later applaud Hitler.
Written in exile after Brecht was no longer welcome in Nazi Germany, the book follows the life of Polly Peachum as she romanticises the idea of Macheath, just as the audience did when the story was called the "Threepenny Opera", and just as that same audience would later romanticise Nazism.
As an intensely Marxist commentary on capitalism and war, the novel showcases many social problems and invites the reader to come up with real solutions for their own comparable problems in life.
Bertolt Brecht is a legend as a playwright, and a non-entity as a novelist. That said, his single novel is a reimagining and expansion of his satirical musical, "The Threepenny Opera" into a sprawling Dickensian social satire. All the colorful characters, from businessman gangster Macheath to con artist Peachum, are represented, and their attempts to make a buck by any means necessary spill out all over London to greater extent than they did on the stage. The end result is something like a fusion of Dickens and "Catch 22," with all the satirical bite and colorful characterization of both.
"A great book, on many levels. I first bought the book in 1988, presumably because Brecht was ""cool"", but I never got around to reading it until now. The book is a "funloving" depiction of greed and avarice carried out by totally amoral businesspeople on the backs of the poor. But underneath this world of wheels inside wheels and double- and triple-dealing in pursuit of the goal of more, is a harsh unforgiving world from which there is no escape. There is a lot of Dickens here, but no sweet heroine who triumphs in the end.Timeless."
I feel that, as a good socialist, i ought to like Brecht. He was on our team and all, right? But, although it's an entertaining read, i think this book is pretty awful. It laughs at the horrible things that poverty does to people and that people do because of poverty and war, and it doesn't appear to foment change. If you understand that there's injustice in the world, then your compassion will move you to change it. But this book makes injustice into entertainment. I feel like Brecht failed not only on my terms but on his.
Awesome. Bertold Brecht is a famous German playwright but he took the time out to write this prose version of his Three-Penny Opera, with Mack the Knife and other famous characters. In this version Mack doesn't kill anybody but he is accused of it. It is a socialistic and therefore negative view of life in the seedy capitalistic society of old London. Everyone in the know is out to get what they can from the poor and also the unsuspecting banks. Very entertaining for hardened capitalists and not hard to get the sarcasm throughout.
