https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/686718.Murder_on_Astor_Place
When that girl is discovered murdered two days later, she becomes involved in the investigation with the prickly New York Police Detective Sergeant Frank Malloy.I was hoping to find another historical fiction/mystery series to sink into and have found it in this one.
It's also compelling that it is set in turn of the century (1896) New York City as opposed to Regency or Victorian England.
There is a sense of authenticity as the author has embedded historical facts and true characters into the story, which provides the educational component I'm always seeking in this genre.
I guessed this series would be a good one for me - historical mystery is always my thing and here we have Maisie Dobb's American cousin (joking!) detecting her way around New York instead of London.
Our main character, Sarah Brandt, is a daughter of one of New York's top families, but is estranged for marrying 'beneath' her and now works as a midwife.
This book sets up the groundwork for the rest of the series.I enjoyed the setting and the historical facts about life in New York at that time.
Characters came from all walks of life, top to bottom, so there were opportunities to see how different everyone's lives were.
I’ve been meaning to get to this series for a long time and I’ve finally arrived.
Set in the period I assign to Edith Wharton, we get perfect access to the upper crust through our main character Sarah, who is the daughter of a prominent family, yet estranged.
Still, she has the understanding and the access.
Sometimes with a first-in-series, the plot suffers from the setting up of the world, context and characters.
Im looking forward to the rest of the series, which will take some time as there are 21 books in it *gleefully rubs hands together*.
Chelsea asked if anyone had recommendations for books like Maisie, and someone posted about Victoria Thompson's Gaslight Mystery series, about Sarah Brandt, a midwife living in New York City around the turn of the 20th century.I kept that in mind, and when I was waiting for a book signing at Barnes & Noble 86th St. store in NYC recently, I found myself in the Mystery section, and remembered the books.
If you are a Maisie Dobbs fan looking for a new series, give Victoria Thompson's Gaslight Mysteries a try.
Review to follow..
I loved it! It is a historical mystery and its a page turner. The story is really good straight from the beginning to the end. I loved the characters. Its an excellent story.
Sarah Brandt, a widow, ex-socialite and midwife, was drawn into a murder-mystery when she glimpsed a young lady she thought she knew in the wrong place at the wrong time.
It was such a refreshing change of pace from most stories that I have read recently.
I really loved Sarah's strength and honesty and her byplay with Frank.
Regarding the mystery, I thought I had everything figured out midway but Ms. Thompson threw in some twists.
Just be sure and have the second story, MURDER ON ST.
MARK's PLACE, ready to read.
Setting: intriguing.Writing: pedestrian.Word Choices: occasionally extremely ahistorical.For a further review: http://susannag.booklikes.com/post/67... .
Widow Sarah Brandt is a midwife in late 19th century New York City.
The girls looks just like her old friend Mina when she was the same age.
When Sarah goes back to the boardinghouse two days later to check on the mother and child, she finds that the girl has been murdered.
Sarah knows about the corruption in the police community and pressures Malloy into looking into the crime.
This is a wonderful start to the Gaslight Mystery series.
Both Sarah and Frank are interesting characters.
I look forward to more books in this series.
This book had a number of things I usually like, but I just couldn't get into it and did not finish this one.I usually like 1800's New York, I like strong female characters and I like people who fight against social structures that are stupid or unfair.
This book had all of these, so I'm not entirely sure why it didn't grab me.I did find the way Sarah just barged right back into the social strata that she had previously rejected somewhat implausible.
That's always a sign for me that the book just isn't for me so I gave up on this.
Sarah Brandt, a New York City midwife gets pulled into a murder case being investigated by Detective Sergeant Frank Malloy of the NYC police department.
The book is set in the late 1890s.
A reformer named Teddy Roosevelt is the new Police Commissioner attempting to clean up the corruption in the department and the vice in the city.
The dead girl is the youngest daughter of a rich NYC family.
Sarah thought she recognized her the day before the murder as Sarah herself was born to a rich family.
Aside from one of the main characters having the same name as an ex-boyfriend (eep!) which became a slight annoyance after reading it on over 200 pages, I thoroughly enjoyed this book. I love reading about the Victorian times to learn more about the period, and this was a very well-researched book. The reveal was kind of disturbing but I have to admit I didn't see it coming. I'm looking forward to reading the other books in this series to see where it takes the main characters, both of which I became fond of by the ending. 4 stars.
I also like how I’ve been learning a lot about turn-of-the-century NY and the Gilded Age and this story put into practice some of the surroundings, customs, and history of the time that I’ve learned about and weaves it into context.
I enjoy reading fictional stories that supplement the non-fiction books I've read on a given subject.
I really enjoyed the audio version of this book and I look forward to traversing turn-of-the-century Manhattan with Sarah Brandt again real soon...from ramshackle dank tenements, to cobblestone streets teeming with urchins, to the upscale marble row (mansions on Fifth Avenue, between 57th and 58th Streets).
Here, the amateur sleuth is a midwife, but we discover that Sarah's social background is not cut-and-dry, and the reasons why she became a midwife add a lot of depth to her character.
I'm looking forward to seeing how she progresses in the rest of the series, which by the way is not finished yet.There's also a grumpy, disillusioned detective that Sarah is forced to work with, and I liked him as a counterpart.
I like that there's room to grow instead of everything being a done deal already.Although I said the sleuth and the depth of her world is the most important part, obviously the mystery does need to hold together and keep my interest as well.
When the girl’s prominent family refuses to permit an investigation and the police appear to be just as disinclined, Sarah takes it upon herself to discover the truth.A good mystery, but it is the dynamic between Sarah Brandt and Frank Malloy that truly make this book shine.Sarah is a strong willed and independent heroine, and it is impossible not to admire her courage for turning her back on the capricious and prejudiced social strictures of her upbringing.
It is more difficult to appreciate Detective Frank Malloy character as his moral compass appears to have gone awry.
An interesting protagonist, Sarah Brandt, born into a powerful, rich New York family in the 1900s.
She defied her family and married out of her class.
Now, a widow, who is a midwife become involved with the murder of the daughter of another rich family.
Sarah is a strong character who holds her own as she tries to find the truth of this case.
She also must battle NY detective, Frank Malloy, who is working the murder.
Their clash and ultimate cooperation makes for interesting plot.
I like the period and the characters!
A fairly competent little gas-light thriller set in Victorian era New York.While not exactly a memorable entry in the genre in wasn't so bad that I couldn't finish it...I guess that's a recommendation of sorts;-)While it was relatively inoffensive it wasn't good enough that I feel I *have* to read the rest of the series. Part of it may be that I've read some really excellent books lately and compared to them it just doesn't quite measure up.
A well crafted and entertaining historical cozy mystery. Set around the turn of the 19th century it follows a midwife and detective as they investigate the murder of a young wealthy woman in a boarding house in New York.
Sarah Brandt and Sergeant Malloy who entertain different views on life, society and justice are thrown together to unveil the mysterious death of a young girl.
And in the course of solving the mystery and bringing the culprit to justice, Sarah and Malloy lean to understand and respect the views of each other.Despite the simplicity in the story, the author paints a picture of the lives of rich, middle class and poor, their prejudices and also the position of the women in New York at the period of time in which the story is set.
While it provides a vivid picture of the general feeling of class upbringing and poverty in a new New York of 1893, it was beneficial to read this shortly after "Murphy's Law" by Rhys Bowen.
While Victoria Thompson conveys the general feeling of the classes, upbringing that sharply informs the mentality of this shocking mystery, Rhys explains new New York meticulously.
Like Rhys's work, I have had a scattering of Victoria's books for some time and didn't imagine loving them to a five-star degree.
Victoria's work is a pleasant surprise and it is a lovely serving of abundance, to enjoy Rhys so much at the same time.
I really loved the fact that this series takes place in New York, instead of in London like in most of these kinds of books.
I read the first four books of this series in German as well as in English and I can only recommend that everybody, who's even a little bit capable of the English language, is better going to read these books in English.
Maybe on Ebay or some such?)a) because they are just that much better in English and b) because there's a whole CHAPTER MISSING in "Murder on St. Marks Place".
The girl is murdered and our heroine Sarah is drawn into the investigation by our police-detective hero Frank.
Some overdone coincidences and a definitely predictable creepyfactor ending but overall I can't wait to read the next volume.Picked up on a librarian recommendation and I think she said the later volumes are better but that it was best to start at the beginning.
Paperback edition was marred by several odd editing errors - two wrong spellings of "its", Frank named, femininely, Frances at the start but corrected to Francis at the end, and the hilarious use of "mutton chop sleeves" for what must have been meant "leg o' mutton sleeves".
It may have spoiled a few things, but the real adventure is always finding out how you got there.Sarah Brandt is a midwife who finds herself wrapped up in a murder investigation lead by Detective Sergeant Frank Malloy.
Malloy is less than thrilled to have her help, but circumstances lead to him relying on her discoveries to solve the case.The story was juicy, but I did start to figure it out by the end of the book.
Which now of course means I must race through the rest of the series.What I love about Thompson's work here is that it wonderfully meshes with the history she is teaching the reader.
3.5 almost a 4 - very cozyIt was a nice respite for me as I usually prefer darker, more gritty, more complex psychological / serial killer-type books. But it was an easy read, clean and quick, with likable characters.
Sort of a cheap imitation.It was a good "vacation read," easy to digest and not very deep at all.
Make me feel the detective's embarassment at being "lower class!" Make me understand the discrepancy in the midwife's chosen life over the life she was raised in!Maybe I was expecting too much, because the story is good, and I was interested...although I am not sure if I kept reading because I wanted to know how it would end, or if I kept reading because I was hoping it would get better.Oh and as for being historically accurate, post-partum depression was unheard of in 1896!
Loved this book! Looks like a new series for me to read. Thank you to everyone who recommended it. Set in the 1890s in New York City. The wonderful descriptions entranced me immediately and it wasn't long until I was fond of the two main characters. Local color and gentle humor in addition to great plot.
I can tell she made a huge effort in her reach which added authenticity to the overall book.I was a little disappointed that there wasn’t more romance or chemistry between Malloy and Sarah.
She came across so headstrong and sure of herself in the early chapters of the book, but then when Malloy acquiesces to her being involved in a more official capacity, she starts to doubt herself and makes silly mistakes that I felt like her character just wouldn’t.
That just didn’t fit with her character for me so I felt frustrated by that aspect of her character.Overall though, the mystery was satisfying and I am looking forward to reading more books in the series.
I started this series because it had all of my weaknesses - a cozyish mystery story, a confident and competent female lead character, and a Victorian-era setting.
I have since been blowing through this series, from this, the first book, all the way, some 15 books later, to the end.
It is not the best book you've ever read, it is not the best writing or most complicated plots - but it is very good, and it's terribly compelling characters have had me hooked, enjoying each book immensely and waiting for more.
Midwife Sarah Brandt is returning to visit a mother and newborn when she learns there has been a death at the home.
A boarder was strangled during the night, and it turns out this is the younger sister of someone she knew years ago.
All the characters are strong as well, and I truly liked spending time with them, especially the leads.
I did feel the climax was over the top, but that is my only complaint with this mystery.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.

