https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/422452.Against_a_Dark_Background
Banks has something prophetic in mind in "Against a Dark Background," but it may have been a bit too subtle for most of the critics to get.Banks isn't writing a cheesy adventure story; he's not creating a science fiction galaxy for entertainment purposes; he's not playing around at all.
He's offering us a warning of what's to come if we keep moving the way we are.

I like it, it’s kind of engrossing, but it didn’t stir me like Banks’ other works.The central character of Against a Dark Background is Sharrow, a noble in a distant future star system.
Sharrow is the sworn enemy of a fanatical religious sect - the Huhsz – a group who assassinated her mother and have sworn to end the female line of her family in repayment for her ancestors’ theft of the cult’s most valuable treasure - a device known as a Lazy Gun. As the novel opens the Huhsz are on the verge of gaining the right to legally hunt Sharrow down and kill her.

They'd be spectacular, but they'd have plots and good dialogue and - is this the reason why?The only thing that niggles me about this is that it was obvious from very early what the denouement was going to be.
But for me it made the last fifty or so pages a little disappointing.I thought there were slightly messy aspects to the plot which may or may not matter.
The thing is 500 pages long as it is.What churlish knitpicking.
Reading Banks lately has made me receptive to the idea of reading science fiction again, when I really thought those days were over a very long time ago.
Banks has experimented with non-linear stories to better effect before, such as in Use of Weapons, so I'll consider this an outlier.Even worse, Banks will spend entire sections of the novel enigmatically referring to some technology or concept of the book's world -- characters will have conversations that allude to it without indicating what it is -- before abruptly throwing in the towel and spending a few pages of perspective-free exposition simply telling the reader what he's been teasing us with this whole time.The world of Dark Background is deep and interesting, with a half-fallen technologically mature civilization sifting through the junk heaps of their ancestors looking for seemingly magic devices.
This is my first Iain Banks novel since he passed away and I was concerned I'd be too upset to enjoy it fully...
I needn't have worried; this book is so much fun all thoughts of the author's sad passing were soon pushed to the back of my mind.
This certainly isn't Banks' best work but it's a Hell of a lot of fun and I enjoyed it so much I went back and re-read it from the beginning as soon as I finished it!P.S.
- Banks wrote an epilogue to this novel which he posted online but never added to any published copy of the book.
Until I get around to any kind of real review:• Fun science fiction "heist" story. My friend likened it to  Neuromancer  ("...but only because of they're both science fiction heist stories") but I thought it was more like  The Sting  with lasers.• It's Banks, but it's not a "Culture" novel. I haven't read enough of his Culture novels to know if this is a good thing or not. Golter (the main planet in the story) is said in the text to be more/less "orphaned" -- as though it's simply too far for in
Until I get around to any kind of real review:• Fun science fiction "heist" story.
("...but only because of they're both science fiction heist stories") but I thought it was more like 
with lasers.• It's Banks, but it's not a "Culture" novel.
I haven't read enough of his Culture novels to know if this is a good thing or not.
(Which is like: "...O...K...?")• More fun than good.
Born into wealth and nobility?
Being born into prophecy?
And/but: Sharrow is part of the reason that the story is so fun...• What is it with Iain M.
Moments of brilliant oases amid a general drought. The first chapter alone is worth it. If you've read the book, make sure you also peruse the epilogue published separately online by Iain M. Banks, making the story's ending a lot more satisfying and less abrupt. Here's a link.
It's a book that begins like a light-hearted sci-fi actioner (albeit salted with darkness from the memorable prologue onward) and ends in a nihilistic explosion of death, loss, and recrimination.
Imagine the novel equivalent of a film that begins like Star Wars and ends like Reservoir Dogs and you'll have some idea of the tonal shift I'm talking about.If this sounds like a hot mess, don't be fooled: by building up Sharrow's past history in flashbacks sprinkled throughout the "front story", Banks prepares you to understand the degree to which her past is driving everything that happens in the present.
A rambling tour of fractured culture closer to Gibson and Sterling cyberpunk and Moorcock’s Jerry Cornelius adventures than Banks’s usual milieu.
Some of the character’s motivations remain murky, the flashbacks aren’t as effective as Use of Weapons, and the complex plot is tough to keep track off but Banks’s imagination and pitch black humor makes it worth it.
Sinister clones, a super weapon with a sense of humor(the wonderfully named Lazy Gun), bittersweet androids, a planet sized plant, a city of derelict ships(long before Mieville’s Armada) are among the many treats in store.
A sample: [no spoilers]Zefla Franck, once described as nearly two meters of utter voluptuousness with a brain, strolled along the lane, ...
She looked back up at the sky and hiccuped again.
"Aow, fuck!" Zefla hopped around on one foot, clutching her shin.
Zefla glared at the insect-spattered snout of the auto and muttered.
....I thought they had collision-avoidance radar." "It's switched off, " Sharrow said, stooping to retrieve Zefla's shoes from the cobbles.
Zefla sighed.
That serves as an excuse to introduce advanced technology in a magic-like way, so that the story reads more like fantasy than the usual Banks science fiction.The biggest problem with this book, as in other early Banks novels, is that the author has more cool ideas than what fits in the page, so we got more a series of cool locales where something cool happens, before coolly moving to another weird event.
In a way the whole setting, always rising forward to crash in nuclear war and lose most technology is mirrored in the characters.As a plus, there are lots of imaginative gadgets, turns, surprises, triumphs, defeats...
Even though it is not set in the Culture Universe, the basic outline and tenets are the same regarding the Culture novels; sentient AI, Droids, obscure planets, high paced adventure (well, towards the last 120 pages it really starts to remind me of his first Culture novel- Consider Pheblas, but to get there I was beginning to get slightly 'bogged down', with the flashbacks that the main character, an aristocrat called Shannow has, who has issues about her past and family).
It is a good read, one of the best Sci-Fi novels I have read (still wading through his Culture series) of his, but independent of that series.
It's more fun to read than some, thanks to some larger-than-life Dickensian characters that leave lasting impressions: The blowhard old scholar Travapeth on Miykenns, the barbaric King Tard the 17th, the smugly ambitious bureaucrat Lebmellin, and above all, the solipsist Elson Roa. This kind of hamminess can be grating if done badly, but here it's a lot of fun.
I begin to suspect that he just doesn't know how to end a story with living characters.
I'd better off them all!" Iain, I have a tip: the classical alternative to a funeral, when it comes to ending stories, is a wedding.
Reading Iain Banks often gives me the feeling that maybe I'm missing something sophisticated he is trying to do, but I'm never quite sure.
(Flashbacks that are out of order, flashbacks that serve no purpose, people who randomly shift between being major and minor characters, cool characters that don't seem to serve any role, prominent SF ideas mentioned but unused, a protagonist who is neither sufficiently likable or interesting, etc.) However what really bugs me is that while there is a story, and this story has a beginning and an end and events happening in between, I have no sense of what the story is about.
Her only hope is to find the last of the apocalyptically powerful Lazy Guns.Although packed full of Banks' trademark huge ideas, this non-Culture novel fell entirely flat for me.
Despite the fact that Sharrow was constantly on the run and being hunted, there was no sense of urgency about the chase at all; the sub-quests that she and her team embarked on seemed somewhat artificial; a set of twins who constantly shadow and manipulate her are annoying rather than mysterious; and you can figure out who the Big Bad is without much trouble.I think this is the weakest Banks book I've read to date.
His Culture novels, and indeed, his other SF books, take the same dizzying scales and ideas but the writing is so much better.
Banks' fourth Science Fiction Novel, and his first not explicitly set in the Culture universe.
It is a marvelously interesting read, with strangely dark humor and filled with wonders from Banks’ vivid imagination.
While not as dark as The Use of Weapons or Complicity, it certainly has its fair share of grim humor and deep overtones.
The plot revolves around Lady Sharrow and her hunt for the last remaining Lazy Gun, the only weapon ever invented that demonstrates a sense of humor.
Funny, dark and thoughtful, this is an excellent book for anyone who likes science fiction.
This starts off promisingly, with a woman on the run and on a quest for a bizarre weapon called a Lazy Gun, but devolves from there.
All sorts of intriguing plot points are set up, such as the fact that Sharrow, the heroine, underwent a procedure to create a sort of psychic bond between herself and her military unit.
Cool!
Except that the nature of the bond is never made clear, and nothing in particular comes of it.
This sets the tone for the whole book: neat ideas that are introduced, then never explored.
Very, very good. It's less conceptual and more an adventure story than many of his other books - but it's a VERY good adventure story! Lots of action and violence, without neglecting depth of character & emotion.... very effective portrayal of a female protagonist by a male author too! (something I find is rather rare...)
The annual Banks re-reads continue!I'd forgotten just how good this book was.
It's easy to forget that Banks' SF output wasn't all just about the Culture, and I'd definitely class this as one of his finest works.
I can see why he chose to write this one outside of the Culture, using aristocracy in place of utopianism gave the characters a necessary privilege, and the Lazy Gun stinks of Douglas Adams, which isn't really suitable for the more hard science setting in which the Culture sits.
It's a shame the Lazy Gun wasn't used a bit more really, it would have made for some interesting scenes.
Banks novel I've read, and the first one that I've been disappointed by.
What a train wreck this novel is.
It had a few moments of brilliance, and some really great ideas (the solipsists especially were fantastic), but it just went on and on and on with diversions and then ended, never adequately pulling itself together.If you're thinking of reading this, don't.
Instead read these two excerpts-which represent the novel at its very best–and imagine something fantastic wrapped around these bits of brilliance:"How many tyrants had begun by being charming, beguiling, attractive?
Still, they all ended up the same.
In one of the main protagonist's opening scenes, she beats on a guy with whom she'd been having some sort of love affair who also has no chance of defending himself.
And it's hard to stay in this book's mood when you WANT the main protagonist to actually lose.
The narrative is constantly being interrupted by not very poignant flashbacks, and the prose is too descriptive, not at all snappy or to the point as I like it to be.
If I want to read description, I'll pick up a Faulkner k thx.Basically, there's better sci-fi out there.
Every good fantasy needs a quest, and in this one, the holy grail is the strange weapon called the Lazy Gun. Two areas of Banks' writing are without equal -- one is his fabulous portrayal of strong female lead characters.
If you like non-Unicorn fantasy that is understated and crazy imaginative, you will love it.
My only negative issue is it seemed like it could have concluded sooner; there was a part leading up to the finding of the gun where it doesn't seem like anything else bad could happen to Sharrow, but it still kept happening.
Against a Dark Background is the first Banks book I have read outside of the culture series.
Like all of Banks' work Against a Dark Background features his tremendously vivid prose (particularly in his action sequences) and the his consistently fun wit.
I think it'd be hard not to read this book and be very entertained.
The story gets its depth more from Sharrow's flashbacks to her childhood with her half sister and her time in the military than from any of the current interactions between the characters.
If you enjoy Banks' other work than you should definitely read this book.
This book has got it all.
Strong women characters.
Exotic interstellar locales.
Double-crossing.
Double-double-crossing.
Sets so intricately woven together they must be re-read in order to re-appreciate.
Colourful characters.
Exotic beasts.
A hefty brutality permeating the entire story; there are real consequences, and each and every action produces a realistic and thoughtful reaction.Seriously, I've no idea why I haven't read this before when (ostensibly) I began it back in 2013.
This is quite seriously up there with China Miéville's "Perdido Street Station" insofar as sheer inventiveness and enjoyability goes.
I fucking loved every second of reading this book.
Manny liked this, but I'm not sure. It opens like one of those action-adventure sci-fi movies that my husband loves; the ones I usually just sporadically glance at while reading something more interesting. :-) A week or so later, and I have tried, but found myself skimming at chapter 4. That's a bad sign. The truth is I'm not the least bit interested in these characters or their world. Banks is an accomplished writer, and I wouldn't be surprised to find there's more to this story, but I'm afraid it's not for me.
This was a hell of a book. I put off reading it because it was long and I heard it was dark, but it was really fascinating and well-written and had a great female protagonist.
Good grief. The title of this book is very appropriate. Banks is just an awesome writer. This was one dark exceptional story.
Iain M Banks decided to do write a heist/quest story, added his own delightful innovativeness to things like religious fanaticism, political intrigue and it all came out in proper Banks’ signature grim-but-humourous fashion.
Told in an alternating narrative; bits in the present and the following ones in the protagonist’s past, Banks craftily interweaves an expansive story and shows you different characters’ motivations for the actions they take in the on-going plot.
All in all, I’m glad I read this, it’s really another example of Banks’ mastery of the storytelling art!
