https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124680.Secret_Seven_Fireworks
Another Guy Fawkes story29 March 2015 Well, I've just discovered that I have been reading the Secret Seven books completely out of order. Oh well, that doesn't matter all that much considering you don't actually need to know what happened in the earlier books to be able to enjoy the later ones. Anyway, I mentioned that in Good Work Secret Seven that this one seems to also deal with fireworks, and I have also noticed that inside the front cover are a list of instructions that basically say DON'T
Another Guy Fawkes story29 March 2015	Well, I've just discovered that I have been reading the Secret Seven books completely out of order.
Anyway, at first I thought I may have already read this one because both this one and Good Work, Secret Seven are both set around Guy Fawkes day, and they also are building a bonfire with a guy to sit on top of it.
Mind you, this is book number 11, and one of the many, many books that Blyton had written so it is not surprising that she would go back on some old ground – especially since children love fireworks.
Como el resto de los libros infantiles que voy leyendo.... ha sido para un reto. Esta serie ya no me gustaba de pequeña.... y ahora aún menos. Niños poco creíbles en sus acciones y pensamientos, aventuras anodinas...A mi me gustaban mucho más 'Los cinco'!!!
I'm not as big of a fan of the Secret Seven as I am of the Famous Five and the Five Find-Outers, etc.
I think it is because it was written for a younger set (I mean, not that the rest of her books were written for 25-year-olds), so younger children also had their own adventure series that was perhaps less frightening.
And then Jack, who has a younger sister Susie not part of the Seven, but often causing trouble.
Blah blah blah.But this one talks about Guy Fawkes Day, which is cool, cause that is not something we have in America.
Enid Blyton is an amazing childrens author, bestselling in the world. Although almost undiscovered by Americans.This series (The Secret Seven) Features 7 children who form a backyard club. They love to have meetings with SecretPasswords, etc. Soon, they begin to fall into mysteries. This series is for the younger reader than the other series Enid Blyton wrote for children. 8-10 years old maybe.Great reading. introduce your children to Enid Blyton today!
Bright, mysterious and awesome! Just like the fireworks.
This one focusses around Guy Fawkes night, buying fireworks, making a guy and building a bonfire.
Something I remember as a kid, but it has gone out of fashion in Australia, so my kids are not familiar with it.
It was nice to see the Secret Seven make up with Susie and her friends at the end of the book, but I don't think the truce will last for long.
Susie, the annoying little sister, is part of the formula to build tension in the plot.
I have explained to my kids though, that if Susie was allowed to join the Secret Seven, she would stop bothering them and help.
Pure nostalgia. Last read in 1969. Like all the others in the series it is written to a formula and at the end one thinks I could have written that. But I didn't and Enid Blyton did. Inspired to read it by the fact that my 10 year old grandaughter is reading several in the series.
Poor Susie! She's an annoying brat and naturally the Secret Seven don't want someone's baby sister tagging along, but they really do act a little unfairly towards her at times as well XD
Absoluely every book in this series is awesome
Buku setebal 150 halaman ini saya dapatkan (lagi-lagi) ketika diskon buku murah di salah satu pusat perbelanjaan tahun lalu yang baru saja baca akhir-akhir ini. Membacanya untuk bernostalgia kembali ke masa-masa remaja saya yang menyukai buku-buku semacam ini dan nampaknya teman-teman saya yang seusia saya (waktu remaja) juga menyukai kisah-kisah seperti ini. Masih bisa dinikmati walau sekarang sudah berusia matang sekali alias dewasa banget! ckckck
Another tale in the Secret Seven series this is the 11th of 15 and in this one we get more of Susie - the highlight and clearly the best character the books, upsetting old poncey Pete and the other 6 middle class heroes - still wish there had been a separate Susie series.
Listened to this numerous times as a child and was my favourite story from the Secret Seven series!I also loved the theme tune for the story and it was very well narrated.
Revisiting the books of my youth out of a feeling of nostalgia! I loved Enid Blyton when I was younger and can't wait to re-read these with my own children.
I read this e-book from my Scribd account. Unfortunately, the many typos that appeared while scanning into an ebook format were not corrected, so that took away from the reading pleasure. However, the story was great and once again I was immersed in Enid Blyton's world of The Secret Seven. This time thieves come around causing trouble. But The Secret Seven bravely face their foes and even come to terms with Susie and her friends, reconciling their differences, at least for now.
I read Famous Five and Secret Seven about the same time. I do not know if it is just me, but I found the Secret Seven mysteries to be a bit more mysterious… if you know what I mean.But yes, all the early lessons I have learnt about friendships and life are from reading Enid Blyton Books early on. So I thoroughly encourage all children to read them. It is like passing a passage of life and the secret seven series is no different.
I thought the book gave a good picture of what was happening. It is a very detailed book and describes the feeling and personality of the seven youngsters as well as a clear picture of the environment. Although in some parts of the book the emersive feeling is ruined because of words that did not need to be there and you will have to read some sentences a few times to get what they are trying to say.
It's a decent Bonfire Night themed mystery, but it's a shame that the Secret Seven don't notice that it's going on in and around their own shed until the last moment! They start to investigate at first, but then stumble blindly through their Bonfire Night preparations while everything unfolds around them.
it is right in front of them the whole way along untill they finally realise the whole storey falls into place. quite a kool book!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Buku serial Sapta Siaga yang pertama kali kubaca. Agak kurang greget menurutku, mungkin karena dibaca saat umur segini ya.. Masih lebih suka Trio Detektif. Dulu tahu dan jadi suka sama Enid Blyton gara-gara temen SD yang minjemin pada serial Malory Towers dan Saint Clare's, sampe pengen sekolah di sekolah berasrama hehe.. #kenanganmasakecil
Well it was not like other stories of secret seven,but was very interesting indeed. it didn't have any type of adventure of shadowing and planning. It was all about the bonfire night and the guy.... Well again a wonderful story I like it a lot and enjoyed too...As i finished it in 2 days....!! :-)
I thought this book was very exciting and I could not put down the books when I was reading this, I really like Enid Blyton's books. I think these are really really good mystery books. What I enjoyed about this book was like how Enid Blyton made the story so exciting and made me feel so tense.
As usual, the secret seven came for their meetings after schooltime.They discused about anything suspicious they have seen....One day, they decided to have a bonfire celebration.They started saving money for the fireworks and....
I always feel sorry for Susie in these books. The Secret Seven are always complaining about how horrible and annoying she is, but she only does things to annoy them because they're rude and mean to her.
these books i grew up with. i wanted to be a part of their adventures and i was when i read them. i reccommend these books for any child under 10.I has been a while scince i read these books so i can't give a proper review.
good!
AMAZING!!!Jack's little sister Susie is very annoying and the Secret Seven are furious when she forms a rival club. But is Susie wicked enough to have stolen some money?
Very cool book. Short and sweet with really absorbing mysteries and adventures.
good awesome mmstery to be solved!!!!!!
Good
A nostalgic tale that takes me back to my childhood.
