https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239404.Psychotic_Reactions_and_Carburetor_Dung
Lester Bangs was one of Rock-n-Roll's greatest chroniclers but I found this collection of writing a bit heavy and meandering. Probably good for hard core Bangs fans, I guess I just can't sign up for that club.
Maybe that’s why he’s able to write so well about music, to say so much in the space of a sentence or by his choice of words.
I wish he’d written a novel, y’know, because it would have been such a pleasure to read.What strikes me most about this collection is that you can see Bangs sort of growing up as his writing goes on.
He pulls no punches but he takes punches like a pro.I wish I could have met Lester Bangs.
Thinking about the conversations you could have with this guy about music makes me giddy.Calling Bangs a music critic is like calling Stradivarius a violin maker.
Not my jam.At all.Not only this isn't what I expected at all, but this is barely criticism.
These are long, chaotic tirades about drugs, the music industry and sometimes there is a cool story about a musician inserted in there like when Iggy Pop picked fights at his own show, but otherwise.
This is very lean on interesting material.
Bangs even brags about not saying whether or not Lou Reed's album Metal Machine Music is good in a 5,000 words column.
There's a great article on Elvis' death among others, but if you're looking for criticism, staaay awaaaay.
Lester Bangs is the only rock critic whom musicians truly accepted as one of their own.
And he wasn’t above starting a concert review with a totally Gonzo introduction like, “I decided it would be a real fun idea to get fucked up on drugs and go see Tangerine Dream.” "Psychotic Reactions," compiled by “the Dean of Rock Journalism,” Greil Marcus, five years after Bangs’ death in 1982, collects arguably his best stuff, including a series of Creem articles detailing his bizarre love-hate relationship with his idol, Lou Reed.
Bangs is likeable because he's a smart asshole, but there's no shortage of self-deprecation in his writing.
It helps that he loves the Stooges, Velvet Underground, and music that others write off as abrasive.
With all of this praise, there are a couple significant missteps: The excerpt from his "novel" (Maggie May, 1981) is atrocious and the essay about racism in the New Wave scene comes across as ignorant and self-congratulating (even though he puts his own racism on display).
However, even these pieces have some merit is providing a comprehensive representation of Bangs' work, and you have to love how he always seems on the search for something meaningful.
Πέρασα σχεδόν όλη τη χρονιά με αυτή τη συλλογή άρθρων/σκέψεων του διασημότερου κ πιο επιδραστικού μουσικογραφιά όλων των εποχών, όχι γιατί με κούραζε ή γιατί περίπου τα μισά κομμάτια της συλλογής τα είχα διαβάσει αποσμαματικά τις δύο τελευταίες δεκαετίες, αλλά γιατί εξαρχής το είχα ξεκινήσει ως επαναλαμβανόμενο διάλειμμα απ'την λογοτεχνία που είναι η κύρια ενασχόλησή μου τις βραδινές ώρες.Ο Bangs ήταν ένας αρκετά διαβασμένος τύπος, με αδυναμία στους μπητνικς, ίσως γιατί μοιραζόταν μαζί τους τον πεσιμισμό που επικρατούσε στη ζωή του, κ είχε εξαρχής μια σαφέστατη κριτική σκέψη γύρω απ'τη μουσική, γεγονός που τον οδήγησε από πολύ νωρίς στα σωστά μονοπάτια των μουσικών 70s, της πιθανότατα σημαντικότερης περιόδου της σύγχρονης μουσικής.
Πάντως, όσοι θέλουν μια πέρα για πέρα αληθινή απεικόνιση των μουσικών 70s αυτό εδώ είναι ευαγγέλιο.
So forged my way through the Stooges/Iggy hard on that comprised the opening quarter of the book. Boy am I glad I did. Bangs leaves no question as to what acts he is passionate about and while I don't always share his opinions I found the dichotomy of his prose (equal parts acerbic wit and dazed ramblings) thoroughly enjoyable. Bangs is no mere Music Critic. He opens the floodgates through his articles and shines a light on culture by not only focusing the lens on the artists but on himself as well.
More importantly, it seems to me that there is a war on today which goes far beyond the-rest-of-society vs.
Lester Bangs wasn't a genius.
He wasn't the best rock writer alive.
His run on sentences were, irritating, manic, super hard to follow and took this reader out of the story all the time.
He rocked hard.
Far be it from me to say his writing suffered for it.
His writing suffered for it.
Finally, after frustratedly powering through Psychotic Reactions, I found the arc of Bangs writing bent toward a kindness and humanness that was deeply moving and warm, I'm way better off for having read it.
I say "ostensibly" and "almost" because while editor Greil Marcus notes in his fantastic introduction, “Perhaps what this book demands from a reader is a willingness to accept that the best writer in America could write almost nothing but record reviews,” he also concluded, “[A] story is what [this book] is to me: the story, ultimately, of one man’s attempt to confront his loathing of the world, his love for it, and to make sense of what he found in the world and within himself.” Yes, Lester Bangs wrote about music, but music was not what he wrote about.
I had a great-aunt who once told me that rutabagas were something one either hated or loved, so when I finally tried rutabagas and found them strictly ahright, I thought either there was something off with me or I was a special breed—able to feel neutrality about this thing men had come to blows over.
In the years afterward, I would meet very few people who expressed half a damn one way or another about rutabagas, leading me to conclude it was more a matter of my great-aunt hating or loving rutabagas and deciding that meant the rest of the human race had similarly bellicose thoughts on the matter.
There may be some people out there who feel neutrally about Lester Bangs.
They're all over Astral Weeks: four rushed repeats of the phrases "you breathe in, you breathe out" and "you turn around" in "Beside You"; in "Cyprus Abenue" twelve "way up on"s, "baby" sung out thirteen times in a row sounding like someone running ecstatically downhill toward one's love, and the heartbreaking way he stretches "one by one" in the third verse; most of all in "Madame George," where he sings the word "dry" and then "your eye" twenty times in a twirling melodic arc so beautiful it steals your own breath, and then this occurs: "And the love that loves the love that loves the love that loves the love that loves to love the love that loves to love the love that loves." The record—and Bangs' own examination of his reaction to that record—provide a startling moment of collusion with the young man's ecstatic release in the short story Araby from Dubliners:I pressed the palms of my hands together until they trembled, murmuring: O love!
This collection of essays shows that Lester Bangs was an impassioned, articulate writer.His unenviable calling was that of the critic.
Few critics have ever written with such sincerity.Lester Bangs lived a short life.
If I'm not wrong, he didn't live much past the time rock's biggest icons died: Elvis Presley (1977) and John Lennon (1980.) He was a believer in Punk.
He took rock music personally because he didn't think there was much else worth paying attention to.If you have no love for the musicians he loved, seek this book out anyway.
He wrote rock criticism as if he were a 19th-century pamphleteer.
That is exactly how I would describe Bangs' writing style: like Iggy Pop and Nabakov had a baby and the baby grew up to write half-cracked yet totally brilliant music criticism that uses a lot of really big SAT words.
He also has a beautiful deconstruction of racism in the rock scene, which, sadly, is still completely relevant.
Good for anyone who loves word play and language, or who loves rock music.
I read some of this back in the day; this time I skipped around and skipped over some of the padding.
At first I thought, "Geez, this is sure dated." But more reading lessened that impression.
Probably the two most important essays are the long road-trip profile on The Clash and "The White Noise Supremacists," an impassioned, take-no-prisoners exposé on punk nihilism/racism.
Bangs is important not because he's an immensely enjoyable, nutzo read who could put together sentences as tautly muscular as Iggy's torso and as colorful as a splash of Darby Crash's vomit (he surely could), no; he's a must-read because HE GOT IT FIRST.
'It' being punk.
Lester Bangs is pretty much my favourite music writer of all time.
There is scarcely a single sentence in this book I didn't find infinitely quotable, but this extract from the review of Lou Reed's Metal Machine Music is one of the best: "All landlords are mealymouthed bastards who would let the ruins of Pompeii fall on your four-poster before they'd lift a finger.
They deserve whatever they get, and MMM is the all-time guaranteed lease breaker.
Every tenant in America should own a copy of this album.
Forearmed!"Every music journalist should own a copy of this book.
One of my absolute favorite books by one of my absolte favorite writers.I picked this up in a used bookstore during Lexington's 4th of July parade (I hate parades) and had to read it 500 times before I finally put it down.I love this book....Bangs was sarcastic, open-hearted, brilliantly literate, and obsessed with music.He wrote some of the greatest descriptions of what its like to be a music addict I've ever read...Van Morrison, The Clash, Lou Reed...If you like any of these bands you owe it to yourself to read him.
You will be so much the richer for it.
I promise!My hero!
My teen years were the Creem years, and so Lester Bangs had a strong placement in my youth.
But beyond that he was not a music writer that I felt close to.
i never bought the drug out drink out poor critical figure.
But saying that he did bring music criticism on a higher plane and that we should be thankful for.
My problem with Bangs is that he was very much a character in his writings and critique, and for me I don't find is character that interesting.
But still, his essay on racism in the Punk world is fascinating.
Occasional moments of sheer, transcendent brilliance, mixed with a lot of fun trash. Just like rock 'n' roll.
Bangs came onto the scene in the 1970s as a writer and reviewer (latter term used somewhat loosely) when music was particularly bad, and had been for ages.
Not the bit about Bangs coming onto the scene, or the definition of review, though I did read every issue of Creem then, but about the cruddy state of music.
It seemed to me that almost every review or essay or whatever the chapters are called in this book found their way back to either Lou Reed or Iggy P.
Other than that, while I expected having to pair my reading experience with listening sessions, he actually writes about a lot of music and artists that I'm already very familiar with - The Clash, Van Morrison, Lou Reed, Richard Hell - while I also managed to catch a lot of the sometimes-quite-out-there references sprinkled throughout his writings.
Other than the aforementioned Count Five essay, highlights include the Maggie May-inspired novella, his extended verbal sparring with Lou Reed, writing about digging up Elvis's corpse and ingesting the drugs that killed the King of Pop and thereby becoming his avatar (which apparently comes with a Kerouac-like run on sentence writing style), and hilarious write-ups on how he spent the last 15 New Year's Eve's.
Anyway it is this aspect of Bangs, as writer, as poet, that Marcus focuses on in making this selection -- as opposed to Bangs as arbiter of taste.I picked up to read it, though, because I never understood the turn to the Velvets, Lou Reed, Iggy, the Ramones and then punk that current critical opinion takes to be the good important stuff in rock from the late 70s to the mid 80s.
That is not the trajectory my tastes take, through those years, so I read hoping to understand why that stuff is thought to be so good and important.
The editor admits from the on-set that most of Bangs popular pieces are not included here, leaving the reader to wonder what exactly they're in for in terms of reading.This is actually my first time reading a collection of Bangs' work, having only previously read an article or two here plus seeing his character in Almost Famous played by the excellent Philip Seymour Hoffman.Personally, I know Lester Bangs' work is the kind of "your mileage may vary" types.
Although it sometimes reads like Bukowski Lite, Psychotic Reactions and Carburetor Dung is nevertheless a fascinating look, via a selection of essays and excerpts, of one human being's search for meaning and relevance through the medium of rock 'n' roll.
There are hints in this book that the iconoclastic and self-aware Bangs, had he not died young, would have improved as a writer.
Some of the material at the end of the book contains hints that Bangs was interested in cleaning up, trimming away some of the overindulgences in his writing, and honing and improving his talent even further.
Entertaining, controversial, fascinating; a very good book.
Lester Bangs was certainly an entertaining, great writer and I love his gonzo style. That said, I don't always respect his musical opinions but I'll defend to the death his right to write lines like "The Beatles were four yobs, or three yobs plus a librarian named Paul." His laser sharp observations plus a savage sense of humor make even the criticisms I disagree with hysterical and insightful reading. If only Bangs had survived to the internet era, he would have had the single most entertaining blog on the web.
Lester Bangs sta alla musica come Lenny Bruce alla satira....Uno stronzo irriverente nei confronti del mainstream musicale ed è tutto quello che conta.Mi piace tout court, pane al pane vino al vino.Pensieri graffianti, aneddoti da capo giro, quando il rock era vita e non il contrario e Lester l'ha vissuto alla grande, da protagonista tra i protagonista, senza fare sconti a nessuno nemmeno a se stesso....Lester ci manchi....anche tu Lenny!!!
Parts to skim and parts to save and return to again and even share. Bits I was disturbed by he redeemed him by addressing later, and so it's good to see his evolution. Some really choice word pairings and phrases. Explains why he thinks a way about some subject, so even if you feel otherwise, you can still see where he's coming from..... a habit that is sorely absent in our modern world, much to the detriment of us all.
Moments of genius and pure rock n roll inspiration, but overall a pretty challenging read. He was clearly fighting many personal demons. Def worth reading for any big fans of Bowie, The Clash, Iggy Pop or Lou Reed who feature in some great pieces.
O maldito é bom. Tem uma escrita rock'n'roll que esconde um pouco o quanto ele lê e analisa bem os artistas, obras e contextos. Pena que esse tipo de crítica musical tenha ficado no passado.Pena que ele não tenha mais publicações no Brasil.
wicked - I grew up with Cream magazine
Haven't read this since I was 16 but it left such a dent in my head and my prose.
