https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13138.Season_of_the_Machete
My least favorite Patterson book.
I read a bunch of reviews on this book and none of them were very good, so I can't say I wasn't warned.
But like so many others, I am a completist, and I can't read all of Patterson's books without reading the bad ones as well.
About 150 pages into the book I was asking myself, "who the hell is Peter?!" Turns out he was one of the main characters.
This is the third of Patterson's first books that I have read, and two out of the three were terrible.
On the good side, I've got this one out of the way and I can now say I've read it.
This is another JP novel that I did not enjoy. It had a similar style to the Thomas Berryman Number, that I didn't like, and I wasn't impressed as I began. Again, I was going to make myself finish it and then I realized how silly that was. It was a library book, so I had no money invested. Reading is supposed to be fun - why torture myself??? So, I stopped. Anyway...wouldn't recommend it, but that's just me.
Each victim is brutally murdered and slashed by machetes.A mafia family with the hopes of adding some excitement to the island have hired Damian and Carrie Rose to commit the murders.
This changes quickly with an American hotel worker whose girlfriend becomes a victim is able to identify some important identifying details that will help tie the crimes to Damian.As the story progresses the rate of the murders increase, even bringing some examples to the American mainland.
Instead, the reader is rushed from one murder to the next from the perspective of each victim, with the events tied together with a mysterious series of journal entries about the times.
My last James Patterson book. I usually really enjoy his books hence why I have read so many. this book was awful and torture to get through. I wanted to be intrigued by the psychopaths. instead all of the characters were boring and lacked life. it isn't that they weren't real it is that we learn nothing about them so we don't care.
Worst book Ever!
I've read several James Patterson books. this one was definitely in the bottom 3. I thought it was boring. The characters were very bland.
Didn't really care for this book...
Not my bag
First James Patterson. Last James Patterson.
AUDIBLE BOOKCouple on vacation , but they are vicious murderers
Plus, it's narrated by Lou Diamond Phillips!
I went into this one blind, not reading the back, or doing any research before popping in the first disc.
I have described it to my friends as an 8th graders creative writing homework assignment, but really, I think an 8th grader would have done better.
this is pretty boring, you really need to spruce this up with some adjectives or something.." So, James found a thesaurus and WENT.
Or how about the line describing the people around town with faces the color of pretzel sticks.
One solo star for Lou Diamond Phillips.
It is hard to believe that a crime/thriller writter like Patterson turned out this book.
A choppy writing style, back and forth snippits, and predictable plot twists made this a book that was almost painful to get through.
The last third did pick up a bit, which helped (at least enough for me to plow through and finish).
I did like the ending, but despite being left open for a potential sequel, it looks like Mr. Patterson (thankfully) has not opted to write.
But I'm sure Hollywood would just turn it into another lame slasher film.
I had this book picked for me for a challenge.
I love this author and this book has been on my TBR and Kindle for way too long.
I also was excited because I could use this for 2 more challenges.
One can tell this is among James Patterson's first books, it just didn't have the punch he is so known for.
Way too many characters to keep track of, editing issues, not to mention far more violence than necessary.
I'll put it this way, if I had read this before I read any of his other books, I never would've picked up another book by him.
This was a good James Patterson book. However, there is a about 5 pages before the prologue in this book. Most of the chapters are dated in this book to keep a timeline going. This section is also dated, but a year after the rest of the book. What happens in this first part contradicts things that happen later in the book. And since I obviously read that part first, it confused me later. I am hoping it was a typo on the date.
Sorry, James and Patterson fans but this story was awful. Long and tedious, gruesome crimes that I doubt could progress and continue for so long. I listened to it on MP3 and the narration by Lou Diamond Phillips was excellent--no problem there. He was great with character accents and personalities and his regular voice is quite pleasant to hear.I guess this is an oldie but goodie but not for me.
Is not up to the quality of his writing. Grammar not correct, spelling poor, definitely not proof read before release or not proofed by a native speaker. Very disappointed, as I look forward to reading his works.
This seemed a lot meatier than his usual offering, but was still a super-quick read!
Not of my likings. Actually found it boring and eventually started reading between the lines.

I have come to the conclusion James Patterson is an author of extremes; in the nineties he was producing beautifully crafted crime thrillers and twenty years later he churns out poorly written, half arsed and frankly ridiculous novels at an alarming rate.
Spin back twenty years into the past and Patterson was writing novels like The Machete Season.A killer couple, a series of brutal murders and a global game of cat and mouse; at first glance this book has the makings of a Hollywood blockbuster never mind a bestseller.
Usually, I love James Patterson. I turn to his books for a quick, easy, and entertaining read. This one, however, I thought was terrible. I didn’t feel that there was much character development so I couldn’t care less what happened to any of them. There were a lot of different names thrown around throughout the story that made it difficult to follow who was who and how they fit into the storyline. About halfway through, I struggled to want to keep going and nearly gave up several times because I just did. not. care.
This was probably one of the worst books of his that I have read in a long time.
Maybe it was the audiobook format or perhaps because it was a bridge but it was extremely difficult to follow you kind of didn’t understand what was going on at any given point in the book.
It wasn’t horrible but it wasn’t the best good luck keeping track of what to happening in the story.
I had to rewind and go back several times just to try to figure out what they were talking about.
Once I did thoughThe story was not as bad as it was the first time I listen to it
I wasn’t too sure about this book at first but I actually quite enjoyed it. It’s not by any means my favourite but I’ve read a lot worse. I read in on a kindle and still not sure if I actually read the ending or not. It just kind of ended with a question so not quite sure if I finished reading the book or not.
I've read a large number of his books, and consider him among my 5 favorites, BUT NOT THIS TIME!i'm a "completer", that is when I start a book I finish it, (unless it is absolutely no good at all), and there were a couple of times that I almost quit on this one but I kept thinking, "it's got to get better", BUT IT DIDN'T. Enough said
This clearly was one of the first books that James Patterson wrote....really was a strange tale. Didn't flow. Wasn't cohesive. On an editorial ore, there were typos, words missing from sentences.... not his best work.
2.5 stars
ok
Didn't really care for this one.
The writing was terrible. Nothing like the Patterson novels I am used to.
