https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/560187.The_Faerie_Queene_Book_Two
'Twas a hard slog, but Spenser more than made up for it with the themes and explorations of virtue he wove through. I really appreciated the thought I could tell Spenser put in this, and the grasp of Biblical themes he had and chose to weave through the story. Also, Spenser has Guyon go through temptations that mirror the ones Satan put Jesus through, all while in rhymed meter. Take that, YA literature! Also, Toby Sumpter's commentary was the best, and kept me turning the pages. And now I'm ready for the third book.
Sumpter ignores (or doesn't notice) Spenser's Neo-Platonism.
Without understanding Spenser's commitment to Neo-Platonism, parts of the story are incoherent.
Along this chain are mediating spirits (powers, angels, fairies).*Because of his Neo-Platonism, Spenser sees a greater role for angels than we do today (VIII:1-2).
Spenser describes the man (representing memory) as “of infinite remembrance” (IX.52).
Even though (or perhaps because of!) he is a Neo-Platonist, Spenser floods the senses (and the soul) with beauty and creates in the reader a desire not only for the good, but for the Beautiful, for the Heroic--indeed, for the Temperate.This isn’t accidental.
Hard to read, but worth it.

As such, I won't give a review, since it would likely involve a lot of complaining and not much about the book itself (which is very vivid in its descriptions, if lackluster in terms of plot).
An allegorical interpretation of book 2 might look something like this: to achieve the virtue of temperance, one has to fend off rashness and lawlessness (Huddibras and Sansloy), avoid excessive pride (so as not to resemble the ridiculous Braggadocio), counteract humoral imbalances (whether Pyrochlean choler or Cymochlean phlegmaticism), resist the seductive charms of excessive indolence and mirth (Phoedria), maintain a healthy body (allegorized in Alma's exceptionally well-ordered household), and--ultimately--reject the temptation to lapse into a sumptuous life of indolence and sensuality (embodied by the bower of bliss), even if it takes extraordinary or violently INtemperate measures to reject such temptation (as enacted by the way Guyon savagely destroys the bower and ensnares Acrasia in canto XII).
You can see my overall thoughts on The Faerie Queene here: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...Book II *** – I read some of the highlights of the book – Cantos I, VII, VIII and XII.
In these cantos, the influence of Virgil, Homer and Dante are most visible.
After reading the first book, I felt a similarity to The Divine Comedy.
Both are extended religious allegories that try to encapsulate the entire world.
They are many differences of course.
Spenser creates a world totally separate from ours.
But in the Mammon scene, featuring Spenser’s hell, the influence of Virgil and Dante are obvious.
Have a summary sheet next to you while reading!
I definitely understood the second book better than the first, but I don't think it was quite as good as the first.I'd just finished reading the poetic exploration of lovers and the way their sexual desires inevitably blossom beyond their relationship in Milan Kundera's Identity, and I just couldn't get behind an antagonist whose great evil is that of seduction and free love.
Admittedly, Acrasia also turned her lovers into animals, but that was one of Spenser's shallower allegorical moments...I've been chewing a lot on thoughts about the difference between morality and honor in the realm of love, so the story was interesting fodder for that.
- Archimago frees himself after Redcrosse departs:'And forth he fares full of malicious mind, To wor
This book is amazing and bizarre. Sir Guyon, knight of Temperance, takes on the witch Acrasia and her Bower of Bliss, a domain of beauty and pleasure where misguided knights drown themselves in sex and wine until they forget who they are and turn into beasts. Could have done without reading the fake history of British Kings (again), but the rest of the poem was incredible, especially the revelation that the men who became beasts did so willingly and no longer wish to be men even after the spell is broken. Can't save them all, Sir Guyon.
So Guyon meets up with Mordant and Amavia who have been killed by Acrasia, representing Intemperance, and who throw into his hands a bloody baby; Guyon leaves the bloody baby at the Castle of Medina, whose blood cannot be washed off, like our innate sinfulness, and goes off in search of Acrasia.
Arthur defends the castle, while Guyon goes to the Bower of Bliss to take out Acrasia.
Whether your sin is hoarding money or excessive sexual pleasure, Spenser's astounding Book II is the vision for you.
I love Spenser's interjections--he invokes and praises Queen Elizabeth ("To decke my song withall, I would assay / Thy name, O Soveraine Queene, to blazon farre away") and seems to admit Guyon is a bit dull ("here I a while must stay / to see a cruell fight doen by the Prince this day" he says before devoting Canto 11 to Arthur).
In many ways this book is vastly different than Book One yet it is still very good.
I found this one easier to read than the first book, but it's truly enjoyable if you understand the context of England at the time - religiously, and also what Spenser is trying to do for the English novel and literary art form.
Whereas Book 1 focuses on the grandness of a Knight and becoming a powerful Man of God, Book 2 is all about the power one should have over their own bodies and urges - all in all a very interesting read, especially compared to the first one.
"The good Sir Guyon gratiously to heare, / In whom great rule of Temp'raunce goodly doth appeare." Yes, good ol' Sir Guyon, the knight of Temperance. Yeah, you know, Temperance; that helpful virtue nobody thinks about anymore. #chivalryISdead"God guide thee, Guyon, well to end thy warke, / And to the wished hauen bring thy weary barke." Footnotes are well done in this book. Non-obtrusive and without too much allegorical referencing (unlike Book I).
Like the book before it, this book is about resisting temptation. This time, the protagonist is not the Redcrosse Knight, but rather a knight by the name of Guyon. There is also a prince by the familiar name of Arthur. Like its predecessor, this book must be read carefully so that climactic events such as the battle at sea are not missed. Another story worth reading.
Lord save me from this book. I had to read it for a class and if it wasn't compulsory I would have stopped reading way before the end. The book and story itself has some merit, and I can understand why it was chosen for the class, but man I just did not enjoy this book at all.
I can't be objective when it comes to Spenser. I adore the Faerie Queene. My love for this book is unequivocal and all-consuming. You'll have to rely on someone else for a more fair-minded evaluation!
I find this a perplexing book; I feel like I'd need to read it a few more times to really get it. Again, the edition is fantastic, with stellar notes and a helpful introduction. And the book fits easily into a purse.
Wonderful stuff. Who will do the next books in this edition?
While not as good as Book One, Book Two still is full of lovely, vivid imagery like only Spenser can versify!
I didn't like this as much as book one. There are fewer talking trees.
It takes awhile to get used to the way Spenser writes, but once you find your groove it's a really enjoyable read.
I ended up reading it for class, and it's kind of hard and wordy and weird, but I somehow ended up obsessed with it. What gives?
Book I was better.
Review coming soon at inwhichireadvintagenovels.blogspot.com
