https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/716944.Owl_Babies
4 Cuteness ★'sAwe, I love owls!
This is a book that shows children that their parent will come back, that it's okay to miss them because everything will work out.
It also shows the baby owls staying together.
This story is perfect for children of all ages.
I really love the big fonts and the illustrations are truly magnificent!
The full-page illustrations are big, bold and are very detailed and they go perfectly with the story.
It's such a cute book that everyone should get a copy of so you too can read it to someone you love :)
Amazing artwork and a story that's relatable for children, a great conversation starter, as the point of the story might not be as obvious to a child, encouraging them to think and open up. Definately going on my have-to-buy-for-the-next-addition-to-the-fmily-list. ;)
Anyone who knows me knows I adore owls, so I was delighted when this book arrived on my desk.The three baby owls with their lemon fluffy chick feathers and confused looks are as are cute as they can be.
Once there were three baby owls: Sarah and Percy and Bill, the story begins.
The illustration of mother owl leaning over her chicks is gorgeous.
One night the owl babies wake up and mother owl is gone.
In time mother owl come back to much rejoicing.This is a gentle reassuring tale with illustrations that are divine.
A wonderful story about three baby owls who wake up to find that their mother is not in the nest.
Quite soon, mama owl flies back - reassuring them that although she goes away, of course she will always come back.This is a lovely story, illustrated with charming and intricate penwork, contrasting with silhouettes of the night.
(I had a secret groan....) I would LOVE it if the publishers could come up with a system of colours on the spines of these books - pertaining to some sort of system of subjects, so they could at least roughly be organised.
Owl babies is a lovely story about three owls Sarah, penny and Bill who wake up to find that their mother is gone from their nest.
Bill cries for mummy while the other two owls comfort him and reassure him that mother owl will be back.
Sarah is the wise one, Penny the middle one tries to be brave and Bill who is the baby who is in need of his mother the most.
I really enjoyed this book because I think Early years children can relate to this story as they also experience separation from their mother when starting Nursery and Reception.
Read Owl babies to the nursery children . All the children started to count the owls and every time baby owl cried "I want mummy" All of the children joined in. The children were highly engaged and interacted with the text to a high degree. This book was an excellent book to read to the children, they started to use their skills of repetition, they are building their literacy skills and there was an element of mathematics involved as well. Great stuff!!
Once there were three little owl babies.
The lived in a hollow tree with their mommy.
The babies waited inside the tree for a very long time then came outside to look for her.
They thought a lot and closed their eyes wishing their mommy would return soon.
The owl babies were so excited to see her they bounced on the branch.
The mommy wondered what all the fuss was about since she always returned.
Once the babies thought about it they were no longer worried and knew that when she left she would always come back.
Owl Babies:This book is skilfully written which brings different emotions, such as anxiety to the surface.
The author does this in such a way that even very young children can relate to these emotions.
This book highlights the importance of the maternal role for young children.
Also it highlights feelings of unease and apprehension particularly when the mother owl is gone and we the readers are unsure when she is coming back.
This could be particularly useful around Mother’s Day. The story of owl babies also illustrates how the siblings support each other and the importance of these relationships.
This is a beautiful story about three baby owls Sarah, Percy and Bill who wake up one night to find their mum has gone.
We would also be able to ask the children to make predictions from the illustration at the start of the story, such as where do they think mummy owl has gone, and how she might feel leaving her children.
The owl babies start wondering where their mother has gone.
There is a memorable sentence said by Bill in the book ‘Where is my mummy?’ young children can relate to Bill’s anxiousness.
This can be used in the early years foundation stage as the book of the week especially in the first week when children feel the separation from their parents and to ease their separation.
The owl babies sat on one branch so they will not be scared and feel safe.
It encourage us to think and this book can help children to think what they would do in Sarah, Percy and Bills situation.
Book Review 8- Owl Babies – Martin Waddell and Patrick BensonThis book is very popular.
Their mother is not with them and they start to worry and get upset that she may not return.
It makes the readers wonder about the whereabouts of the mother and you are left guessing if she will return to her children or not.
This book is in a different style to the normal childrens books with their bright and bold colours, but I believe this is one of the reasons that Owl babies stands out even more.
In my opinion I believe the book is great for early year children to key stage one.
Every year in the fall our combined editors organize a special week in which they promote children's books.
It's also a promotion to get children to read more.
Every year there is a special theme.
As I love reading I volunteered at school to promote this theme among the collegues.
I loved it so much that in the past years I always remembered this book and especially the quote: "Mammie moet komen, piepte kleine Wim.
(Mommy must come, squeaked little William - translated with Google).
Text as in the book and the main characters: Sara, Peter and little William and Mother Owl move along the backdrop of their home forest.
I thought this book would be a great addition to help them learn and understand the topic being taught.It’s a lovely story about three baby owls, Sarah, Percy, Bill and their mother.
One night the three baby owls wake up to find that their mother isn’t there.
They sit there re-assuring themselves that mummy will be back soon.
The children really found it amusing every time Bill said, “I want my mummy!” and they would laugh each time it was repeated.
This is definitely one of the best picture books I have read to children.
This is a great book which could support teachers to settle young children into school or nursery.
It is about 3 siblings discovering their owl mother has disappeared and are left in a scary forest.
The siblings provide each other with comfort and support.
The baby owl repeats the well known phrase, 'I want my mummy', which can relate to settling in periods, where children who are left in a nursery/school for the first time they may also repeat this phrase.
Fortunately the owl mother does come back, therefore this book could provide children with the reassurance that their mother will come back to pick them up from school/nursery.
This is a GREAT book!
Forget all those sugar-coated nature stories for babies.
This is the story of 3 little baby owls who are alone on their branch at night.
In the dark.
Waiting for their mommy.
She is out hunting for dinner--mice.
Very beautiful drawings of the little owls and their mom.
Max has this book in NYC so I read it for Emerson earlier this year.
Today, at the library there was a very nice owl display put up by one of the librarians.
All books about owls (and little owl figurines) and I saw this book and checked it out.
Three very cute and cuddly (and slightly anxious) owl babies wake up to find their Owl Mother gone! Sarah, Percy, and Bill (the babies), each weigh in with where they think she's gone and what they think they should do. The illustrations are beautifully done, with a lot of contrast between the dark forest at night and the colorful area immediately surrounding the babies. Gentle humor and a reunion with mom at the end make for a comforting and delightful read.
Lovely illustrations. Read this at Native Nurseries in Tallahassee where I was doing a bit of last minute (second?) shopping.
Nothing but love for this wonderful story of 3 baby owl, who awake to find their mother is missing. My daughter memorized this beautiful story of the mother and child bond.
Really useful children's picture books when beginning to look at speech.
The speech is clearly displayed in the book for children to experience.
They will be able to identify the different owls' character traits and their differing personalities from the speech.
You can then ask the children what does their speech tells us about each character?
How are the characters different?
Also, an excellent book as it relates to the forest/the woods and night time.
In addition, an excellent shared reading book as it also provides lots of questions to ask the children!
Children could look at the contrasting feelings of each of the owls. It encourages children to open up about how they are feeling and think about possible reasons for situations. It also encourages children to stick together and stay positive in a difficult situation.
One of my faves. 3 little owls wake up and their mama is gone. They're scared and anxious and help each other. They think alot. Their mama returns and they are happy. Good for early years adjusting to school perhaps and being left but their parent returns. Beautiful illustrations.
I read this book to a class during my time in a school. They loved it and I love the book. I think it is a great children’s book and although it is a little sad and you really do feel sad for the owl babies it has a lovely ending.
Such a sweet book! Perfect for looking into characters, and how the owls take on different roles. Would be good to explore with children their thoughts on what the owls might really be thinking! I loved this book as a child and reading it recently reminds me why!
I used this one for TT and preschool storytime on 10/4/17. The theme was owls and the big book version of this was a perfect way to start off! The kids got a kick out of Bill's refrain, and everyone was visibly relieved when Mother Owl came back. :) Super cute!
Lovely ending! The illustrations in the text is brilliant and makes you realise to not run away from your mummy!
Awesome sweet story!BirdsMomsOwls
A lovely way to explore characterisation, perspective and feelings.
"All owls think a lot."
Cute book with nice illustrations. It's a concept any little kid can relate to: wanting their mom to come back home.
A cute story with beautiful illustrations.
