https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15797750-the-mask-of-fu-manchu
I won't give much away, but this book is guilty of such a strange anticlimax that it might as well be a story in reverse.
Shan Greville makes is still the same poor hero he was in the last book, even Dr. Fu Manchu tells him so.
"The Mask of Fu Machu" is often more like a family gathering than an adventure story since many of the characters seem simply to be hanging out and reviewing old times.
This book was the basis for the Boris Karloff film of the same name, one of the few Fu Manchu movies to actually use the title and story from one of the Sax Rohmer books.
Shan Greville returns as the narrator, serving under world famous Orientalist Sir Lionel Barton.
Sir Lionel discovers the long lost sword and mask of a Muslim prophet and Fu-Manchu uses this as a pretext to announce the return of the Masked Prophet.
Greville has completely usurped Dr. Petrie who now only shows up occasionally to prescribe sedatives, but Sir Nayland Smith once again plays a prominent part in attempting to foil Fu-Manchu's plan.
Sir Lionel Barton is also prominent, and not shown in a good light.
Sir Lionel is also a clever fellow and is instrumental in keeping Fu-Manchu at bay for most of the book.
The story opens in the city of Isfahan, Iran (Persia) with the murder of Dr. Van Berg, the curator of artifacts for famed archaeologist Sir Lionel Barton.
Barton discovered the tomb of El Mokanna - the Veiled Prophet - and retrieving the precious relics buried there which has triggered an Arab uprising with Fu Manchu behind it as he seeks an opportunity to use the powerful relics for his own ends.
Sir Denis Nayland Smith, retired Scotland Yard detective now working for the government arrives to help.
The action stretches from Persia to Cairo to London encountering Ogboni killers, mind-control drugs, dervishes, and a ghost mosque.
Este es la tercera novela que leo de Fu-Manchú, incluida en el primer volumen de Ediciones B.
Si a los dos anteriores les puse cuatro estrellas, este se lleva tres por la repetición de viejas tramas: el asesinato misterioso, la droga que quita la voluntad, el secuestro y el trato con el malo malísimo...
Una sensación de libro ya leído me ha echado un poco para atrás.Sin embargo, el buen hacer del autor consigue que la historia se lea de un tirón y que siga resultando agradable.
Recomendado para fans de la saga o curiosos sobre el origen del mítico villano.
One of the more entertaining entries in the series.
The Doctor has discovered formula elixir vitae and is more spry, mobile, and inventive than ever - the only sign of age is a certain mellowing, even nostalgic regard for his enemies Wayland Smith and Dr. Petrie.
Daughter Fah Lo Suee is present to provide a hint of exotic sexuality.
This time out, the Si-Fan are aiding a revolutionary Muslim sect who believe in the resurrection of the "veiled prophet".
The Yellow Peril meets Radical Islam!
These books are the bad conscience of Empire.Chapters 10 & 11 mention Spring-heeled Jack, unusual outside of Fortean literature.
Once again, Fu Manchu TRIES TO TAKE OVER THE WORLD!
Loved it as a kid as part of the series my brother had introduced to me at the time.
This might seem like an odd thing for an archaeologist to do but it’s exactly the sort of thing you’d expect Sir Lionel Barton to do.El Mokanna had been the leader of a sect of Islamic heretics, a sect that still has its devotees - and they take the fireball in the desert caused by the explosion as a sign.
Anything that is likely to cause problems for the European powers is welcome news to Fu Manchu.
It’s up to Sir Denis Nayland Smith to prevent this from happening.This is a typical Fu Manchu novel.
Sax Rohmer in his book, “The Mask of Fu-Manchu” Book Five in the Dr. Fu-Manchu series published by Titan Books brings us new adventures of Sir Denis Nayland Smith, Dr. Petrie and, of course, the evil Dr. Fu-Manchu.From the Back Cover: “Imagine a person, tall, lean, and feline, high-shouldered, with a brow like Shakespeare and a face like Satan…”London, 1913—the era of Sherlock Holmes, Dracula, and the Invisible Man. A time of shadows, secret societies, and dens filled with opium addicts.
Mr. Rohmer writes in a breathless style that will keep you on the edge of your seat, flipping pages as fast as you can read them just trying to keep up with runaway roller coaster ride story.
When I was a very small child, I discovered Sax Rohmer’s Fu Manchu for the very first time, and I considered it a blessing.
(I think that’s why when I watched the 1930’s Flash Gordon on TV as repeats, I always rooted for that delightful Emperor Ming instead of the sturdy handsome Aryan blond Flash.) Way back in that much simpler time, I also discovered that I loved and admired both Dr. Fu Manchu, the nefarious Oriental villainous mastermind; and Sir Denis Nayland Smith, that indefatigable, highly intellectual Englishman (who unfortunately carried much of the ethnic racism of his time).
Many decades later, Titan Books has determined to bring out many of the Fu Manchu collection, and I still consider it a blessing.
This book, #5 of 14 in the Fu Manchu series, is a direct continuation of the previous entry, "The Daughter of Fu Manchu." Thus, a reading of that earlier story is fairly essential when going into this one.
Thanks to the essential oil of a rare Burmese orchid, Dr. Fu has attained a new lease on life in this book, and is both stronger and more active than ever.
Fah Lo Suee, his evil but hot-blooded daughter, makes some nice eerie appearances in this tale, as well.The story this time concerns Fu's attempts to steal the so-called relics of El Mokanna from Sir Lionel.
Our old friend, the insidious evil doctor Fu Manchu, returns in "The Mask of Fu Manchu,” the fifth book in Sax Romer’s classic mystery series.
It has been a century since Sax Rohmer gave the world the gift of the incredibly intelligent, and yet so evil, Doctor Fu Manchu, one of literature’s great evil geniuses rivaling even Doyle’s Professor Moriarty.
Romer’s Fu Manchu novels are worth the time to discover the great, intellectual (and stereotypical) evil genius who is Fu Manchu.
After discovering the tomb of the Veiled Prophet and discovering the Prophet’s precious relics buried there, Sir Lionel Barton, the famous archeologist, blows up the tomb.
The writing is approached in such a stinted awkward way, that reading is cumbersome.
Much like The Shadow book I read a few weeks ago, The focus is Fu Manchu and all else takes a back seat in a way.
The huge difference with The Shadow is the writing of that character, which i found fascinating.
the writing of Fu Manchu, written around the same time - 1932, is neither interesting or compelling.
Due to the above, I found myself reading through the book not caring what happened to any of them.
likely the best parts written.
Though I've seen several Fu Manchu movies, this is only the 2nd Fu Manchu book I've read.
Things happen at a distance, or are related as exposition.
The title character is also kept at a distance--though we do meet him, his presence is minimal in the novel.
This has almost nothing to do with the 1932 movie of the same name with Boris Karloff aside from the title mask, a plan to liberate the Asiatic people from their Western oppressors, and the character of the daughter who is far more evil (and interesting) in the movie.
Unfortunately it was a sign of the times that racist remarks were freely written and accepted by many authors, Sax Rohmer was no different.That sad fact aside, this series of books was written by the masterful Sax Rohmer where there is no dull moment, no chance of catching your breath, and all the reasons why he was such a great author in each book.
A style all his own written at a time when harlots, whores and racy clothing wasn't needed to capture and maintain a readers attention.
Fantastic character development.
I couldn't put this book, or any of his other Fu Man Chu works, down.
This is the fifth book in the Fu Manchu series by British author Sax Rohmer. The story was originally serialized over twelve issues in Collier's Magazine in 1932. It is a continuation of the battle between Dr. Fu Manchu and the forces of the British Empire. The story is replete with exotic locations, deadly assassins, dashing heroes, and a deadly plot to incite a religious war. Nothing less than the ultimate control of civilization is at stake here.
A rollicking good yarn, but very of its time. All orientals are mysterious, shift, or a servant, the British own the world. Characterisation is slight, and definitely comes second to the plot. I only really got a very clear picture of Fu Manchu as a distinct personality, everyone else is a cypher. There are lots of references to previous adventures, in earlier books. Better to read this in sequence.
One of the best Fu Manchu books thus far anyway. The story reads more like a complete novel than most of the earlier entries in the series but it is still very episodic. The book came out in 1932 the same year as a film of the same title, but the film has little to do with the book except in the broadest sense, although it is the best of the Fu Manchu films, with a great performance from Boris Karloff as the title character.
Nobody could write pulp adventure fiction like Sax Rohmer, and this was one of his best. The story and the stereotypes are hopelessly dated, but who cares, it's a ton of fun anyway. My copy, with a 1932 copyright date, is missing a dust cover and has a black binding with a spiderweb incised, and the spiderweb has the word "Intrigue" on the left and "Love" on the right.
Fun romp of a book, loaded with creepy atmosphere, a decent cast, and lots of non-PC attitudes.Fu Manchu is interesting, as he isn't just 'that evil oriental', he has a distinct personality and makes for a nice balance between the good guys and bad guys.You almost wish their was a book done from his point of view.
Jingoism! Imperialism! The "Yellow Menace"! Oh boy! If you can put aside political correctness, you'll enjoy this mystery/thriller from the Golden Age full of midnight assassins, ghostly mosques, mysterious murders, ancient relics, and angry mobs (and that's just in the first 100 pages).
One of the best ones, so far. The main plot or masterplan of Dr FM is a bit offstage, but Shan Greville's experience, the sensual horror if Fah Lo Suee and the Doctor's admirable honour are excellently portrayed. Beyond belief of course - but what do we read this expecting?
The fifth in the series, this one is set in Egypt, mostly, and with Fu plotting to lead a "Moslem" sect via religiously significant relics dug up illegally by an English collector, it seems positively modern compared to the ones set in London opium dens.
Interesting and entertaining!
I love the Fu Manchu books. They are very dated and sometimes a bit far fetched but make very easy reading
reread SOMETIME in 2008
2nd piece in the 2nd Fu Manchu Omnibus
