https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12211722-ex-oblivione
Lovecraft strikes again with his silky-smooth dream-like prose.
He writes about ideas that, at the time, were totally foreign and thought provoking, but now are widely accepted and old news.
I think.In Ex Oblivione, the way the prose feels otherworldly and somehow connected to the themes of the story--afterlife and dreams--is pretty cool.And even though it stands out like the Call of Cthulhu, and even though you can look back and see why people before were wild about him, the prose seems out of place while the ideas seem commonplace in modern literature.
So there's not a whole lot to love about Lovecraft.
"I knew not which to believe, yet longed more and more to cross for ever into the unknown land; for doubt and secrecy are the lure of lures, and no new horror can be more terrible than the daily torture of the commonplace."
This prose poem reminds me a bit of Celephaïs. It is beautiful. It is written in the first person and told by someone who found beauty and peace in dreams.While roaming through dream lands the narrator finds a papyrus that tells about a locked gate that can be unlocked using a special drug.Beyond the gate he finds two truths.
I've never read anything by H.P. Lovecraft. The story is a single-page short story that is very beautifully written. Hopefully, this won't be my last Lovecraft. I totally recommend this to everyone.
The transition between the waking world and the wisdom of dreams, and reading the text after reading similar texts about the dreams realm make me wonder, why do I read about the worlds of dream?
Is it a trigger from my subconscious to seek the wisdom of texts for consultation about the dilemmas of my restless sleep?
Am I trying to find a way to remember the composure of my dreams?
Am I supposed to know what I dream of?
Will I, if I remember, be capable of comprehending, or is it a language that only my subconscious, with all its wisdom, can master?
I don't, sincerely, know.
All I know is, I enjoyed this short story.
In my dreams I found a little of the beauty I had vainly sought in life, and wandered through old gardens and enchanted woods.
In certain moods I could read that and think, "Yeah, I've been there." In most moods I think, "Grow up." The disaffection of the pampered has little appeal to me.
I'm probably being harsh.(view spoiler)[A read this whole story as the memory of a suicide.
(hide spoiler)](Moved 2015 review to the individual work Sept.
2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
So, if we are too overwhelmed with our dreams, we will eventually dissolve into nothingness.
I am not sure if that was the intended effect in this ethereal, lyrical short story.
Nevertheless, that is what I have taken away.Having just begin to sink my teeth into the works of Lovecraft, this short story may be my least favorite of his.
First, it is barely a story, more of an idea.
Second, dreams do not interest me.
While this story hints at a larger mythos, it does not flush out any of those ideas.
На схилі віку безіменному герою остогидло життя. Все частіше він шукав притулку у снах і все частіше вдавався до послуг наркотичних речовин, щоби втекти від реальності. У мріях він шукав золоту долину, а в ній - порослу виноградною лозою стіну і бронзові двері на ній. За дверима, він читав, знаходився прекрасний край. Інші ж писали, що там живе незрівнянний жах. Нарешті герой знайшов наркотик достатньо сильний, щоб відчинити бронзові ворота і ступити всередину.
I can appreciate Lovecraft's fascination with dreams but it's rare that any of his stories centering on the dream world captivate me.
Dreary, dreamy short story about drifting away for good.
6/10
Sweet dreams of opium and oblivion.
a wierd story contemplating dream and death. was even confused if this dealt with suicide also.
Interesting dream theory
I have arranged my thoughts on this short story into a haiku: "Death's gentlest greeting,Beguiling in sleep's soft realm,Free from that without."
Quite forgettable. In fact, I can't even remember it.
Very visual, what makes it great is that it describes a day-dream realm and it still makes it sound like the worst place on earth.
In many ways, it reads more like a poem than a short piece of prose.
My favourite part must have been:"Some of the dream-sages wrote gorgeously of the wonders beyond the irrepassable gate, but others told of horror and disappointment.
I knew not which to believe, yet longed more and more to cross forever into the unknown land; for doubt and secrecy are the lure of lures, and no new horror can be more terrible than the daily torture of the commonplace." It doesn't take long, so it's certainly worth the read.
I admit I am kind of a sucker for purple prose, but I really love this piece.
I find it interesting this came out when it did.
The content may not be overly thought provoking in this day and age, but his take on the unknown here is interesting.
Is life worth living?
Or are dreams what are really worth returning to?
Much in the same way, it seems, that once we die and go past the threshold of that bronze gate, we return to oblivion from whence we came.
Like what.
That's not a question I'm asking in the last sentence, that is a statement.
There are some wonderful words and prose in here, short and sweet, but it left me a little cold, and certainly didn't draw me in.Whilst delving through Lovecraft's canon of work I appreciate that I'm not going to love everything, but this felt more like a school exercise than a genuine experience.That said, I still wonder at his ability to transport himself and the reader to ethereal plains with such ease.
But as the gate swung wider and the sorcery of drug and dream pushed me through, I knew that all sights and glories were at an end; for in that new realm was neither land nor sea, but only the white void of unpeopled and illimitable space. So, happier than I had ever dared hoped to be, I dissolved again into that native infinity of crystal oblivion from which the daemon Life had called me for one brief and desolate hour.
A drug induced trip into oblivion. Feels like a fragment of a journal rather than an actual story or "prose poem" as I've seen it described.On a tangent, it feels a bit like a cheat to be logging all these Lovecraft stories separately, but I'm working my way through a digital Complete Works, and I want to have a record of everything I've read. Maybe I should pull these off my feed. Since I'm on vacation right now, I've been reading quite a bit.
Ex Oblivione is a prose poem, written in first person. It tells of the dreams of a presumably dying man. In his dreams, the man is walking through a valley and encounters a vine-covered wall with a locked bronze gate therein. He longs to know what lies beyond the gate, described inconsistently by the few wise-men that made it though either as something incredible, or as a ig disappointment.
This poem captures the "Is real live worth it? Or is the dream the reality" in a way that only Howard could.
Very short, but even within the few pages were the characteristic purple prose. Not much to say beyond that...
This one felt too much like the premise of Celephais. "I want to get somewhere. It's glorious. I must take a drug / die to get there." So I didn't enjoy it as much as I was hoping I would.
meh(I have read the swedish translation)
Otro viaje onírico, a los sueños más ocultos y lejanos... <3
Weird but nice
2  stars
2 ½ stars
