https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/232743.The_Archaeology_of_Knowledge_The_Discourse_on_Language
The reason I bought this book last week was that the cover was hot.
An unusually competent librarian has since added the cover and it appears on this page.) (Did Patrick Nagel dabble in pomo?)So apparently I am a cheap graphic design slut who can be had by any well-dressed taker.
At least in a bargain-basement-Magritte-becomes-a-Scientologist kind of way.So while I was defecating just now, I read the first two pages in the new Vintage edition, and I can already tell you that it's greatly benefited by Peter Mendelsund's cover design.
I mean, the cover made reading it totally not horrible this time!
I mean, it's amazing, but it is also kind of boring.

(Another professor with a different theoretical background recommended concurrently therewith Eagleton's Ideology, Brantlinger's Crusoe's Footprints, and Belsey's Critical Practice; I dutifully read all that stuff, and be advised that the second set is both more Marx-oriented and more introductory).I didn't get around to really understanding the Foucault text until my second crack at it, right after tropical storm Cindy in July 2005, a brief little hiccough that shut down the power everywhere in New Orleans for a long weekend, as preparation for our long Katrina durance.
This is no doubt one of the most important methodological texts written for the humanities. The applications are endless. Foucault's apparatus is somewhat bulky and almost unusable in places. I do not think that the entire book could be applied to one specific project. I see this as more a tool bag from which a scholar might take out particular tools to help see histories and discourses in different ways. In this way, The Archeology of Knowledge is not so much a work of theory, as it is a method of invention.
كتاب فلسفي مرهق, فكرته الأساسية في تحليل مباديء العلوم والمعرفة عن طريق تكسير العلوم المتدارسة وتأريخها والعودة لأصولها عن طريق محاولة مستنيرة لحذف التأثر باللغة المحيطة والمجتمع (او ده خلاصة اللي أنا فهمته من الكتاب و في الأرجح لم استفد من كل او بالكاد نصف ما فيه)اعتقد وبشدة إن موضوع الكتاب متميز ويستحق الدراسة أكتر, لكن لغة الكتاب فعلا مرهقة وصعبة على القاريء المتوسط اللي زي حالاتي, اعتقد برضه إن ممكن مؤلفين تانيين يكتبوا في نفس الموضوع باستخدام لغة ابسط ومفردات وامثلة أسهل عشان ناس أكتر تستفيد من الموضوع والفكرة
More than explaining a horizon of intelligibility, Foucault is simply describing a logical open space in which there is a certain discourse. To open this logical space, Foucault restores exegesis of significant monuments left by mankind, who had been the concern of traditional humanism, by quasi-structuralist development sets of insignificant elements.The notion of rarity, by Foucault, allows precisely identify what is rigorous and meaningful for a time, without thereby archaeologist shall have to accept that must be for him too.Presentation Note
I had to slog through this one just to make sure the main ideas I'm building off of for my thesis aren't being misrepresented (a recurring nightmare of mine...[at my thesis defense] 'So, did you actually read Foucault?').
40 years later, I think Foucault's thinking has trickled down enough through higher education to make his main premises seem almost self-evident to the modern student.
I fear the translator may have represented too faithfully some of Foucault's ranting tendencies and penchants for sentence fragments, but I hesitate to blame too much of the reading difficulty on the translator.
i am to-read this book because i like to be simultaneously amazed and kind of bored.
Αρκετά απαιτητικό ανάγνωσμα που σκιαγραφεί τους δρόμους που θα ακολουθήσει η σκέψη του Φουκώ στα επόμενα έργα του.
While the level of critique is impressive, I can't help but think an appendix or twelve may have done this work a service in ensuring the reader tracked with all the micro-arguments and not just the macro-argument.
That being said, this work reveals how our categories and unities in various disciplines are social constructs and not self-evident realties.
This isn't to deny reality or truth, but it does help the reader appreciate all the nuances that go into subjects like history or science, as well as the various forces that shape them.
This is the sort of book that you feel that is brilliant, that brings something substantial to the humanities, a book which was read and reread and continues to amaze, yet you cant wait to finish it and go back to critics, who had enough patience to depict it sentence by sentence, because you are bored with the actual book.
Among other things I like the book for the way it traverses meanings to reveal newer sense in words, and that in almost every sentence.
I think it's helpful to think of this book, which I admit I struggled through, as something of the introduction to the methodology that would later result in relative page-turners like Discipline and Punish and the three volumes of The History of Sexuality.
Ultimately, the point is that in excavating history we should seek "relations" that enable discursive practices -- rather than search for transcendental "truths" beneath repetitions.
While reading, I put as much thought into Foucault's arguments as into why I find his books beasts.
And yet, (2) despite the obviousness of his arguments, they're still incredibly hard to extract from his abstract (and repetitive) prose.
It's the clearest thing Foucault has ever written, while still dipping into the occasional grammatically-challenged (albeit poetic) run-on sentences and drama I have always known and loved.
It's best read as the closing of a series of books in which Foucault is analyzing (while trying to formulate a way of analyzing) institutions.
It works well on its own but if you really want to see where Foucault is coming from read, in order: Madness and Civilization, The Birth of the Clinic, The Order of Things, Archaeology of Knowledge.
Foucault's approach to scholarship has always been conversational, but that comes across most explicitly in Archaeology.
Another author whose entire oeuvre, essentially, changed the course of my life as a critical thinker.
When I read this, I had been in a sort of Jane Austen / the Romantic poets phase for quite some time, and I was utterly bored with literature, with studying literature, with repeatedly canvassing the same tired books.
Then I found Garcia Marquez and Foucault, I discovered the genuine critical theory of literature, and I embarked upon an infatuation with semiotics, (post)structuralist, and postmodernism that has continued into the present and influenced the way I consider literature, writing, language and, by extension, the world.
I hate to say that the Emperor has no clothes and perhaps this wasn't the best book to begin my Foucalt journey with; however... I found it to be completely rediculous, meticulous, superfluous, and unnecessary. Certainly there are nuggets of lucid and intriguing points buried in his winding and verbose prose. The reality is that no one should have to take the time currently required to make sense of what he is attempting to say (language and words have power). Even for a frenchman in translation, this work flies past the line of acceptable loquaciousness
The Ur text, especially the appended text of Foucault's inaugural lecture at the College de France. Essential for understanding the divide between our discursive selves and the non-discursive reality that silently surrounds us.
4 Words:knowledgehumblinghumbleGoosbump-Ending
Not one of Foucault's easiest books -- indeed, his discussions of sentences, propositions, and statements gets pretty complex -- but it is an important aspect of his project. If you read this book, I'd recommend reading the one with the appendix that has "The Discourse on Language." Additionally, "What is an Author?" is a good supplementary essay.
The archaeological analysis of the human sciences was meant to reveal the rules of formation, and modes of organization of thought which eluded the consciousness of the scientist yet were fundamental to scientific discourse2.
Emphasis on the analysis of the rules of formation through which groups of statements achieve unity as a science, text, or theory.
a) It is a text which formulates descriptions about a neglected field, namely the relation between statementsb) This is not structuralism [16] (use cultural signs to reconstruct systems of relationships)c) Main theme: To discuss an alternative more of investigation (archaeology) appropriate for a neglected domain of objects (statements)5.
And despite it, I know I will have to return to this book many time in the future.But the fact that I'm willing to come back to it proves the how breathtaking Foucault lays out the possibility of his analysis of knowledge, discourse, and specificity.
He does not criticize a discourse and act as an independent subject; in fact, he has knowledge that the language his is using traps him in a discursive formation looking at others.
This in part explains the complexity of the language used by Foucault, because he does not want to fall into the same trap by assuming the supposed self-evidence of his own analysis.
El importante compositor francés, Olivier Messiaen, escribió una obra teórica sobre los diversos aspectos rítmicos, melódicos y conceptuales desarrollados por él mismo y vertidos en su basta obra.
Si hay un texto en las ciencias humanas que se equipare al elaborado por Messiaen en la música, es definitivamente La Arqueología del Saber.
Foucault, en una línea heredera de Althusser y conocedor de lo "exótico" de su análisis, elabora en esta obra una síntesis de su propuesta meta-epistemológica para poder apresar, a través de su muy particular forma de abordar el discurso, las concepciones que producen un saber-poder, utilizado para ejercer relaciones de dominación.
الكثير من الهدم والتقويض، القليل من الإصلاح والتوضيح، المنهج الأركيولوجي يتشابه في بعض الأمور مع البنيوية والفينومينولوجيا بالرغم من مهاجمته الشديدة لهم، ويختلف بشكل رئيسي في كونه يدرس الخطابات ذاتها وعلاقتها بالخطابات والتصورات الأخرى والنظام التي نشأت داخله ليبين أوجه الثورات الفكرية والتحولات والانقطاعات ومن ثم تهافت فكرة الغائية والتواصلية التاريخية والفكرية والمركزية المتعالية للوعي الإنساني، ولكنه يخرج نفسه من مجال النقد ولا يحاول جعل منهجه أساسا لأي علم أو فلسفة ولا عجب أن فوكو قد تخلى عنه فيما بعد.
i swear, once your done reading foucault you feel as if you've taken in something deep. but the whole time im reading im like get to the point - sometimes he does. discourse, yup. this book has his famous remarks in the intro: "don't ask me who i am, don't ask me to stay the same blah blah... i hate that line. sounds like some hippie on a mundane acid trip. no wonder he moved to san francisco.
One of Foucault's more difficult works, but a must read for anyone who wishes to understand his thought. It is absolutely foundational in how Foucault conceives of history and change.
An important bit of theory on the subjective nature of all history, and how we might best understand it by approaching it with an archeologist's mindset and methods.
Päris kõigest aru küll ei saanud, aga huvitav oli sellegipoolest.
I'm so post-modern now, am I not?
By far the sassiest Foucault book I've read.
