https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/110890.The_Looming_Tower
Many years before, in the late 80s and early 90s, I had worked at the World Financial Center, across the street from the WTC, passing through the WTC complex on my way to and from work every day.
In 1994, I was working across the river in Jersey City at one of the increasing number of skyscraping office towers that mirror Manhattan, reachable via PATH trains, the terminal being in the lower levels of the WTC.
She seemed to get at least some of this, and accepted sleep calmly.Mary Ann had tried many times during the day to reach her brother, a teacher in Harrisburg.
Having to read this book was good because it made me think a lot more about why I do that, plus most of it wasn't really about 9/11, but about the development during the last century of Islamist terrorism and formation of al-Qaeda, which is infinitely more interesting to read about anyway.As a very provincial, ignorant person who hasn't traveled a lot, I don't know much about Islam or the Arab world and am thus highly susceptible to a romantic Orientalist-type fascination.
It explores the history of oil wealth in Saudi Arabia and an immigrant construction entrepreneur named Mohammed bin Laden whose seventeenth child, of fifty-four, would grow up to become the world's most ambitious terrorist.It also walks readers through the tangled relationship between the United States and Afghanistan and the Taliban and al Qaeda and, yes, Saddam Hussein, and the Northern Alliance and Egypt's Hosni Mubarak.It is fairly merciless in its treatment of the American bureaucracy that created figurative walls between the CIA and the FBI.
there are the books that make our heads explode, that make every minute of the day a chinese water torture of waiting for the chance to get the hell home and read some more, the books that live inside us all through the day, the books that make us excited to take a crap just so we can shut the door behind us (or not) and sneak in a few pages, the books which cause horn-honking at red lights from drivers irritated we're reading at the fucking wheel...
only on page 230 and stamping with a fiver.
fucking fantastic.
"Wherever you are, death will find you, even if you are in looming towers" ("أينما تكونوا يدرككم الموت ولو كنتم في بروج مشيدة")- Qur'an 4:78A great narrative history of the rise of al-Qaeda and Osama Bin Laden.
The focus of the book, however, is obviously Bin Laden and O'Neill who both seem iconic symbols of radicalized Islam and the US.
The research and narrative of the book is impressive and even though many of these stories and ideas have been floating for years; some of what I seem to have known is probably due to Wright's groundbreaking reporting in this book (It was originally published in 2006).
It is a masterpiece of narrative history in both focus and scale.
Other examples abound.) The war, which an overwhelming victory for Israel, humiliated Egypt, where, following Nassar’s death, Sadat needed to appeal to the fundamentalists to strengthen his government; so he released many who had been jailed from prison.
تبهرك قدرة المؤلف على تتبع التفاصيل، وتشعر بأنك لأول مرة تمتلك الصورة الكاملة لما حدث، ولكن رغم إعجابي بالكتاب إلا أنني أدرك موطن ضعفه، فالكتاب في سبيل عرض قصة تنظيم القاعدة بصورة روائية، يتجاهل الامتدادات التشعبية التي ستفسد عليه الرواية، وهو المأزق الذي يقع فيه كثير من المؤلفين ويجعل كتبهم تبدو كبحر جارف من الشخصيات والأحداث التي تختلط تماماً بعد عدة فصول، ولا تخرج منها إلا بالقليل، خيار المؤلف منح الكتاب الجماهيرية التي يحتاجها، ولكنك تدرك وأنت تنتهي منه، أنه لم يتحدث تفصيلياً إلا عن ابن لادن والظواهري فقط، وأنه لم يتناول تنظيم القاعدة، ولا عملياته الرئيسية وكيف تمت، حتى 11 سبتمبر لم يتطرق لها بالتفصيل، إنه فقط يريد أن يخبرك بالرحلة التي انتهت بانهيار مركز التجارة العالمي، من دون أن يفصل حول شخصيات قيادية ومهمة في التنظيم مثل خالد شيخ محمد، إن الكتاب يبدو وكأنه أخذ معلوماتك الأساسية المشتتة والتي استقيتها من عدة كتب، وأعاد ترتيبها وتنظيمها، وزودها بتفاصيل أوسع، وأعادها إليك، وظلت الفجوات الضخمة التي كنت تتوقع أن يسدها لك الكتاب قائمة، كما لاحظت في الكتاب أيضاً تبنيه للقصة السعودية حول شخصية ابن لادن، وهي أنه مغرر به من قبل المصريين، وهو ليس إلا شاب ثري متحمس، انتهت به حماسته إلى ما نعرف.
One of the most scandalizing things in the book for me was, actually, committed by the Egyptian government.
I know it feels futile and I totally understand the idea that doing so is morally reprehensible and validating the machine and all that, but watching my country's narrative edge its way closer and closer to some theocratic Handmaid's Tale shit like the Right is propagandistically prepping a patient for some illegal organ harvest (starting with the uterus) is just making me feel so helpless and hopeless and I have just this one measly thing to hold on to, that maybe we can get some people in office who, best case scenario, won't make this country and our world even shittier than it already is.
Three blind counter-terrorist agencies - see how they run - they all ran after the farmer's wife - which was a grave error as she knew very little about al-Qaeda, as it turned out, after some strenuous waterboarding.Anyway, I couldn't hack it, it made me feel slightly ill.
Too much stuff about two giant boys towns, one better dressed than the other one, but only slightly.
SEE the young men in their white tunics go out, and charge from the trenches against Soviet tanks, and the suited FBI and CIA men squabble on matters of 'jurisdiction' and 'sensitive information', and self-appointed holy men and saviors meditate in caves on how to save the words of prophets, and their followers drink in action movies and dream of being holy Rambos and warrior priests.Lawrence Wright has done the Western World a great service, stringing together this narrative from bloody sinews of history.
The view that political leadership is corrupt, and that they prostitute themselves to foreign powers.
Included in the story are detailed accounts of the lives of Osama bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri and their ideological predecessor Sayyid Qutb.
As a case in point we get the personal story of John O’Neill, his love lives, and his abrupt off-putting and endearing behaviors that won allies and created enemies.
Between the machinations of the various terrorist groups and Washington agencies we are always finding out something about the private lives of O’Neill, bin Laden and his widely extended family, as well as the character shaping events in the lives of al-Zawahiri and Qutb.
I have a morbid fascination with terrorism and the reasons people behind it do what they do, but I have always wanted to learn more about their motivations and the ties to religion.
I also found it highly thought-provoking and an eye- opener, Lawrence Wright certainly knows his stuff.
Wright has clearly done a lot of research on this topicI had no idea that the book had been made into a TV series but I plan on watching it and seeing how it compares to this.
It is a topic that more people should be interested in learning, as it does impact us all and will for the foreseeable future.Many thanks to Penguin Books (UK) for an ARC.
This book is really worth reading, even if you think you've had your fill of Al Queda, 9-11 et al. The histories of Bin Laden and Zawahiri are interesting and surprising, and this book really lays out how the CIA and FBI blew their chances to stop 9/11. If you're not already disgusted by them, this will get you there. Despite its depressing subject matter, the book is actually a pleasure to read, because the writing and story-telling are so good. This dude has knowledge!
يتتبع الكتاب (البرج المشيّد) قصة القاعدة منذ بدايات التنظيمات الجهادية في مصر، رابطاً بين نشأتها وفكر سيد قطب مروراً بتنظيمات الجهاد والتكفير والهجرة والجماعة الإسلامية.
طبعاً كان هناك تركيز على قصة حياة أسامة بن لادن.
قصة أسرة ابن لادن.
ما يميز الكتاب هو ربطه المتقن والسلس بين القصص التي نعرفها كلنا.
ستخرج من الكتاب بانطباعين: أولاً أن أسامة بن لادن قد تم استغلاله من قبل الجماعات المصرية (بالذات الظواهري) .
ثانياً: يحمل الكتاب على أجهزة الأمن الأميركية ويكشف مقدار البيروقراطية والعلاقة التنافسية الصبيانية بين رؤوسه والتي سيطرت عليها والتي قادتها في النهاية للفشل الذريع في تفادي أحداث ١١ سبتمبر برغم كل المؤشرات الواضحة وبالرغم من تحذيرات الاستخبارات السعودية بالذات..
Thoroughly, painstakingly researched, extremely readable, well-written, riveting account of the genesis of al-Qaeda and some of the reasons why we failed to prevent 9/11 and their earlier attacks, by New Yorker contributor Wright.
Wright used primary and secondary sources as well as personal interviews with hundreds of people.
Where accounts differ, he explains in the endnotes that he chose one source's version over another source, though he doesn't always explain why.The interesting tidbits are too many to note - Osama starting an a capella singing group as a youth; Osama's young sons, even in the decrepit conditions in Afghanistan, playing Nintendo; Osama's prettiest wife determined to stay in shape by jogging around the courtyard of their ramshackle abode.
لم أقرأ كتابا تحدث عن أحداث ١١ سبتمبر بهذه الحرفية ...الكتاب قبل أن أطري على القيمة المعلوماتية التي احتوته أحببت أن أشيد على الأسلوب السردي الشيق وبراعة الترجمة به... دائما ما كنت أسأل نفسي عن مصدر الأموال التي بدأت بها بذرة القاعدة ومن هو أساس صنيعة بن لادن وأتباعه ومناصروه .....كانت الكثير من الأسئلة التي تجول في خاطري عن الأسرار الكامنة وراء هذا التنظيم التي وجدت أجوبتها المنطقية في هذا الكتاب القيم ...رائع
أي أنه وضح أنه سيتحدث عن نشأة القاعدة والطريق إلى 11 سبتمبر وليست أحداث سبتمبر نفسها.بالنسبة لي فلم تكن اﻷحداث بأهمية حياة الشخصيات، وﻷنه كان يتكلم عن الشخصيات من الطفولة والنشأة فكانت فرصة تأمل عظيمة، تأملت فيها كيف تتغير حياة الإنسان وكيف تؤثر اﻷحداث ببعضها وكيف ظهور شخص في حياة أحدهم قد يجعل حياته تتخذ مساراً مغايرا لما كان يسير إليه، إن البدايات لا تشي بالنهايات أبداً!
This is my second or third Wright book and I’m convinced he might be one of our best historians currently working.
Another phenomenal read.
Not just the topic.
But to get a glimpse of how it all came about.
From the horror and absurdity of religion and the extremists it breeds to the failure of bureaucracy to communicate and share data which ultimately led to the deaths of thousands of people.
If you’ve ever wondered how something so twisted was allowed to happen or how someone’s mind becomes so warped they would carry out such a murder; it’s all laid out here.
Wherever you are, death will find you, even in the looming tower.Such is from the Koran.
Most of this book has a similar source.
Last week I was reading an article in the LRB about the rise of Jihadism in Syria.
The author of the piece cited Mr. Wright's book as the authoritative history of al-Qaeda.
I wasn't yet primed to get off my ass and read the work.
Laurence Wright himself was then on PBS Newshour late last week discussing his play about the Camp David Accords.
I read Looming Tower essentially in 24 hours.
"The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11" by Lawrence Wright precisely details the individuals and events that lead (over the course of five decades) to September 11, 2001.
How an Egyptian (Ayman al-Zawahiri) and a Saudi (Osama bin Laden) came to declare war on the United States during the 1990s.
And how the U.S. Government failed to prevent the attack."The Looming Tower" is an important book.
But it is also disheartening.On the morning of September 11, 2001, America was shocked by the crimes of Al-Qaeda and Osama bin Laden.
پیشنوشت: دوستان میدانند که عادت دارم راجع به کتابهایی که به انگلیسی خواندهام، نظرم را هم به همان زبان بنویسم. برای کتابهای فارسی نیز به فارسی. اما میخواهم فارسینویسی برای کتابهای انگلیسیخوانده را با همین کتاب شروع کنم.همان طور که قطعاً از پیشنوشت متوجه شدهاید، این کتاب را به فارسی نخواندم. الآن هم با مراجعه به وبسایت کتابخانهٔ ملی متوجه شدم اصلاً ترجمه نشده است، اما اگر میخواهید راجع به قرائت رسمی از حملات یازده سپتامبر، کتابی بخوانید، در کنار اثر علی صوفان، یعنی این کتاب [که متأسفانه این یکی هم
الآن هم با مراجعه به وب‌سایت کتابخانهٔ ملی متوجه شدم اصلاً ترجمه نشده است، اما اگر می‌خواهید راجع به قرائت رسمی از حملات یازده سپتامبر، کتابی بخوانید، در کنار اثر علی صوفان، یعنی ‌این کتاب [که متأسفانه این یکی هم ترجمه نشده] حتماً می‌توانید به کتاب حاضر مراجعه کنید.
My favorite part of this book was its opening pages about Sayyid Qutb's growing disillusionment with the West, even as he benefited from its educational system.
If you are interested in the history of the formation of Al Qaeda and all of Al Qaeda's actions as a growing terror cell leading up to 9/11, you would probably enjoy this book thoroughly.
It is very painful to read from hindsight, knowing that if bin Laden would have died as he nearly did in Afghanistan, or if the CIA would have shared information with the FBI, 9/11 probably would never have happened at all.
I like to read several books at a time and it just so happened that I read this book at the same time as I read the book "Bring the War Home" by Kathleen Belew and I was struck by how similar Al Qaeda was to the white power paramilitary in the US.
Al Qaeda resists the push of modernity on Islam and the white power groups resist the Civil Rights movements changes and feminism in the 60s.
From that work I realized how on the run Bin Laden was and how the Saudi Royal family's power depends on the radical religious leaders.
This book fleshes out Osama's life and his increasing radicalization and extent of Saudi money in support of the ideology that results in violence.Wright humanizes the principle players and this draws you in.
Wright shows the waning fortunes of Bin Laden in his Sudan years as he loses his money and his access to the family.
Bin Laden is shown to be an eclectic and lackluster businessman he had been leading a jihad that has trouble getting traction.
From Sayyid Qutb, the exiled Egyptian intellectual who in the 50's instituted the idea that modernity and Islam were completely incompatible, to the horrible, petty rivalry between the CIA and FBI that prevented vital information from coming to light about the 9/11 plot until it was too late, The Looming Tower delivers a huge cast of characters, spans sixty years and virtually the entire world.I’ve always wondered what percentage of news coverage since 9/11 can be traced with that day and everything that lead up to it: Al-Qaeda, Iraq, the Taliban, Osama bin Laden, suicide bombers, the Arab Spring.
This is a very readable account of the growth of Islamic militancy.
It starts with Sayyid Qutb’s visit to the United States in the late 1940’s and the subsequent publication of his books espousing fundamentalist Islam.
The author then describes the life of Ayman al-Zawahiri (like Qutb an Egyptian) who also became an Islamist favouring a Sharia state.
Lawrence Wright then moves on to Bin laden’s early life in Saudi Arabia and events there.
The level of violence in Egypt and Saudi Arabia between the government and religious groups is astounding.
The CIA comes off with especially unclean hands; there’s a palpable scene on 9/12 where Soufan (the only Arabic-speaking FBI agent in the late 90s, which alone is bonkers) finally gets the information he’d been hounding the CIA for, namely that the CIA had long known two of the hijackers were in the U.S., and he has to run to the bathroom to throw up.The biographical studies are interesting, bin Laden most of all.
On the other hand, Khaled Sheikh Mohammed gets minimal treatment in the book, which is sort of surprising but also not, given bin Laden's mythology in the U.S.It’s also interesting to look at our own pre-9/11 naiveté again.
Al-Qaeda had aimed its attacks at America, but it struck at all humanity Originally published in 2007 with a 2011 afterword in this edition, it’s clear to see why Wright won a Pulitzer: not just is this a huge undertaking but it manages to build in nuance and complexity rather than over-simplifying. The road to 9/11 is a very long one in this book, starting just after WW2 and inflected by world events including the foundation of the State of Israel, the Civil Rights movement in the US, the Sovi
Despite the vast swathe of names, of ideologies and theological positions, of feuding and allying radical Islamist groups, Wright manages to tell his story with clarity and flair.
He is fairly attentive, too, to the stated unease and dissension even within and between radical groups, especially with regard to acts of violence and terrorism.The current TV series based on this book is far lighter, turning much of the research into a fairly conventional spy story, and especially skims over the various Arab groups with different ideologies, religious interpretations and visions, and national vs.
Where the book really shines is the personal, political and religious insight that it gives into motivations of the terrorists, as well as the American bureaucracy and intelligence agencies that failed to stop them.
Many of the eventual hijackers and terrorists are described in rich stories from their families and acquaintances, to develop a picture of why many well-educated and affluent youth join Islamic jihad movements.As the terrorist movements grow in momentum and scope, the book also describes the missed clues and complacency of the U.S. intelligence and law enforcement communities to stop Al-Qaeda, despite the bombings of the U.S. embassies and the U.S. Cole.
And so the descriptions in this book of Egypt and Saudi Arabia (Afghanistan, Pakistan, Sudan and a bunch of other places I can't even vaguely visualize without the remedial assistance provided here) in the mid-to-late twentieth century were instantly riveting to me.
I don't want them to be right thinking we're not brave and we're not a moral nation, but we haven't done a great job of proving them wrong in the years since.Okay well this review got away from me a bit but the point is: this is a fantastic book and I couldn't put it down.
