https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/19073272--
Another wonderful fable with an incredible moral, I must say it's must read book.
I had read the story in my fourth class from Hindi book of Rajasthan Board, it is in mind due to its message. Recently I has witnessing 'Jatiya Panchayat' of my community sitting and deciding matter extra-legally (some of them are illegal acts as well), I observed that Panch are deciding matters in biased and illogical way. That pushed me to read this story again and tell to some members of my community and my family. Nonetheless, it is a very good story on Idea of Justice by Judgeship.
Its needless to review any book written by munshi premchand.P anch parmeshwar which is set against the backdrop of ancient India shows how power comes with responsibilities and how one prefers justice over his personal choice.Something people in power should understand.
Jumman Mian and Algoo Chowdhary were best friends.
Jumman immediately nominated his friend Algoo.
Jumman explained how his resources were limited and that he provided the best care possible for him.Algoo concluded that the aunt had given her limited property to Jumman expecting that all her needs would be fulfilled.
And it was the end of the road for Jumman and Algoo’s friendship.Life went by and came around.Algoo Chowdhary happened to sell a drought-bull to a villager.
The customer nominated Jumman Shaikh immediately.
Algoo, using the rationale of Jumman Mian’s aunt said: Anyone in the seat of Panch is Parmeshvar himself, agreed.Jumman heard both sides patiently.
This story is the perfect example of "Satyamev Jayate" and people's belief in justice. A perfect work of realism by "उपनयास समराट".
This story is the perfect example of "Satyamev Jayate" and people's belief in justice. A perfect work of realism by "उपन्यास सम्राट".
this book is awsm...!!i just liked the theme of justice not the friendships.the 2 friends not of taking the revenge followed the path of truth.
Excellent piece of Classic & still very contemporary. If you're an Indian or Love anything about, India, then you must read it. At least once...!
If you are looking for microscopic description of human emotions and transition of a human being through various ups and downs go for this book one of the best books
