https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6621012-the-beast-in-the-cave
Enjoyable, if not Lovecraft's finest work. What I like about him is that he usually delivered the goods monster-wise. That's not exactly the case with this (view spoiler)[since the "monster" turns out to have been human (hide spoiler)], but there's still enough of a twist on the mundane to keep this adequately creepy.
Que gran historia, Lovecraft logra meterte dentro de la cueva para que sientas la ansiedad del protagonista. Gritos de desesperación, atmósfera tétrica, terror psicológico, y un final sorprendente. La bestia de la cueva te dejará creyendo que el terror se puede dar mientras lees.Además debo decir que lo leí en un ambiente interactivo y fue aún más sublime.

I've seen many mixed reviews for this story.
However, I have to defend it.
Its Lovecraft's first published (as far as I know) and its one of his scariest.
But unlike a horror movie, or even some of the newer horror sex/gore fests stories today, you have to work for this to get the most out of it.
If you really get in the shoes of the character, and see everything as he sees it, and you can pull up horrific imagery in you mind at a moment's notice, this is one of Lovecraft's most terrifying stories.
2.5The narrator, in his infinite wisdom, got separated from his group while they were following their guide through the caves. He wasn't aware there are so many tunnels. Soon he lost his light too. Nobody heard his screams.Then he heard the sound. The last words are written in capital letters followed by a couple of exclamation marks. It ruined the story.
Beautifully written horror short story, although the story itself was no better than a school assignment. Read it purely for his excellency in language and for the imagery he creates.
Interesting short story by Lovecraft. The protagonist wanders away from his guide while touring a cave, and soon hears strange sounds approaching him in the darkness...
A short story from 1918 set in Mammoth Cave.
A man wanders off from his guided tour to explore a side passage in the cave and gets lost.
With his light extinguished and yelling for help not bringing rescuers, the darkness begins to bring in despair.
Suddenly, a set of strange footsteps approach unlike any heard before.
The Beast in the Cave is a quick snippet with a funhouse ending that what Lovecraft specialized in and passed down to future generations of horror masters.
You can tell this is one of his earlier works, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Where's the best place to read this book? On audio during an evening walk. It's terrifying. Lovecraft has a very refined way with words. His use of imagery, his use of metaphors, his use of language, everything! It's superb! And to think, he wrote this story at the age of fifteen, pouring hours into his research to produce the best story he can. He's impressed me. I will definitely be tackling more of his works.
Like those of other cave denizens, they were deeply sunken in their orbits, and were entirely destitute of iris."The first draft of this 2,500-word story was penned in the spring of 1904, when Lovecraft was just a 13-year-old teenager, and the finished version dates to April 21 the following year.
“The Beast in the Cave” is worthy of a mention solely because of how impressive it is that a mere teenager wrote this.
a scary story work-up
A man gets lost in an underground cave. A strange beast creature soon finds him. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------After I read this short story, I did some research. In the first part, it mentions, "Mammoth Cave". This is fun to me because I used to live in Cave City, Ky. There are numerous caves there, one being Mammoth Cave. The story also mentions "Green River" well, it just so happens, Green River runs near Mammoth Cave. So, this story was based on Mammoth Cave in Cave city, Ky.......and I lived there! Isn't that neat??
Guy finds himself lost and (perhaps not as) alone (as it first seemed) in a pitch-black cave. He is approached by what is surely a quite excellent piece of meat. However, as is tradition in a lovecraftian piece of prose, the aforementioned guy is overwhelmingly neurotic, and as such he conjures the image of some terrifying beast, unknowing that the piece of meat surely only wants his unyielding love.
A great short read. Amazed that this story, given its use of language, was written when he was less than 15 years old. I can't imagine any of the teenagers i know having such a wide vocab and being able to use it effectively. A very enjoyable little story.
predecible, pero aun así me gusto bastante
No es la primera vez que leo esta historia y es que me fascina, logra que me adentre completamente dentro de la cueva. Es de otro mundo simplemente.
The unnamed narrator has an encounter with a creature which he pretty easily manages to mortally wound.Let me just say now if you yet to read this story or the Lurking Fear please stop reading now.
It's long isolation from civilization having caused it to literally devolve into a more ape like form.Now the idea of regressing down the evolutionary ladder is one he'll return in others stories ,but the "Lurking Fear" is one that stands out.
In fact his description of the devolved Martense family sounds an awful lot like his description of the cave creature here.
I get that Lovecraft was only fourteen years old when he wrote this, but still.It's a pretty average, boring story of a guy lost in a dark cave, paranoid and neurotic. And there's something in there too!gaspI'm hoping his later stories increase in quality along with his age.Side note: Yes, I am going to individually log all of Lovecraft's short stories on here as I read them. BECAUSE I CAN. Also because they're all on Goodreads. Also because I want to look back and remember my favorites and least favorites. I am NOT trying to boost my 2018 book count.
The Beast in the Cave is only a brief recollection of a cave explorer told in the first-person.My issue with this short story is that a lot of the storytelling itself relies on embellishment, as the narrator seems to spend an awful amount of time re-describing characteristics of his environment that he's already gone over the first time.There is a careful and deliberate buildup to a rather weak and nonsensical action scene, and then the payoff is disappointing. Lovecraft seems to have intended shock at the conclusion, but it just wasn't present by the time I arrived there.
Lovecraft y sus relatos no dejan de sorprenderme. Es simplemente magnífico el modo en que el lector se encuentra envuelto en una atmósfera de terror y suspenso que revuelve el estómago y trae consigo un sentimiento casi de paranoia. Te transporta al interior de la cueva, logras escuchar el silencio ensordecedor, la respiración jadeante de la bestia, logras experimentar el vacío, la angustia y el terror. Brillante.
It is very clear that this was Lovecraft's earliest story. It is roughly written and inspires disinterest in the story itself. It reads like a ghost story that one of your more pretentious friends in high school would have come up with while your friends and you sat around a campfire or laid down in sleeping bags in your living room while exchanging scary stories. That being said, to Lovecraft's credit, it is markedly good for being written when he was only fourteen.
The final reveal left a pit in my stomach, even if the bold font and three exclamation marks made me read it a page too early. The description of the creature is some of Lovecraft's later magic shining through in his earliest story, and the setting and mood is pitch-perfect. Hard to believe somebody only fifteen years old wrote this. Only knocking one star off because the story is unoriginal in places and Lovecraft sounds a little amateurish, not having found his voice as a writer.
A man gets lost in an underground cave, and in typical Lovecraftian fashion, develops paranoid delusions. He also encounters a beastie. All around, good stuff. Yes, the ending is slightly cheesy and cliche. But, as Howie wrote this when he was 15 years of age, then holy bloody hell, but you can see Howie's gift of language early on.
Sin lugar a dudas el señor Lovecraft narra de manera majestuosa y elegante este cuento. Te hace sentir como si tú fueses el protagonista que se pierde dentro de la cueva, con halos de ansiedad, ambiente sombrío, sentimientos de terror y sentido de la supervivencia, son solo algunas emociones que evoca este relato. Me gustaría seguir leyendo obras de él.
2.5 starsWow Andrea, you're so harsh! A 15-year-old wrote this!Yeah, well, it was still pretty meh. It had a pretty decent build-up, but the climax and payoff honestly just kind of... fizzled out (and it was also kind of hilariously cheesy). Don't get me wrong, this *is* pretty impressive writing for a 15-year-old, but I still didn't really care for it.
One of the first stories Lovecraft ever published. Reading this book while being in your room alone with a small lamp can be a truly fascinating experience. The story is different from today's horror storiesWhile reading this book try to be in the shoes of the protagonist and you will see why Lovecraft was a master of horror stories.
Uno de los relatos mejor conseguidos por Lovecraft en su primera etapa como escritor, irónicamente fue también uno de los primeros que escribió, no se si sera porque las cuevas me dan cierta sensación de agobio pero desde luego este relato es algo perturbador.
Lovecraft wrote this when he was only 14 and that's pretty astounding. It's interesting to compare this very early work to his later, more well known ones. He always had such a great ability to present weird and scary plots.
Impressively creepy for a short story!
Its a short story, however the overall feeling of dread along with the overall explanation of everything that happened and what was going on was rather nice.
