https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/852197.The_Architecture_of_the_City
Essential for architectural theory - indisputably a classic. However (and I'm not sure if this is a Rossi thing or a translators thing), there is a lot of unnecessary content that's beating a dead horse with repetition. This was a Defoe for me; read it because I had to, but it was a painstakingly awful chore.
Italian architect Aldo Rossi details his notion of the built city as a set of collective memories that embody a dimension of time. Classic material!!
"L'architettura della città" è considerato un classico e, in quanto tale, imperfettibile. Perciò, la mia recensione potrebbe anche finire qui.Ma, d'altra parte, sono considerate allo stesso modo anche quelle sedie di Aldo Rossi che, dopo vent'anni di quotidiana esperienza personale, mi sento in pieno diritto di definire scomodissime.Quindi vedrò di sbilanciarmi anche sul libro in questione.Il testo consiste, sostanzialemente, in Rossi che espone teorie contrastanti e poi le confuta, talvolta nella loro totalità, talvolta solo in parte. Il risultato è un lettore disorientato che tenta di afferrare una linea di pensiero generale che l'autore sembra far di tutto per nascondere.
offer different dimension to see a city. not only from utilitarian view like le Corbusier's Radiant City, but from another dimension like socio-historical perspective. Rossi idea about collective memory, urban artefacts, city's permanence are very profound
Essential to architectural theory.
Aldo Rossi provides a deep new "post-modern" perspective of the city as a diverse and collective human feat which refutes Le Corbusier's view of the city from the mere standpoint of urban planning.
I thought the translation to english left things to be desired. It's not that it was unclear, but most sentences were just plain unnecessary complicated.
I like how Rossi laid out his argument on how architecture tells the city's history as well as creates its fabric.
The Architecture of the City is the principal theoretical text by Aldo Rossi, and constituted one of the first attempts to re-examine the function of architecture within its urban context, after the reductive theories of CIAM.
The lessons are still valid and timely nevertheless, and should be remembered by architects, at a time when other theorists celebrate the 'dissolution' of cities under the momentary glare of a globalized world.
In so many ways a product of its time half a century ago.
A fascinating, sometimes visionary essay that has shaped architectural thinking over the past 40 years.
T
