https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/96200.At_Swim_Two_Boys
In this lyrically-dense and character-driven novel, prose beautifully attempts to become lyric and vice versa: the story's universal edge gives it a gravity that's more resolute than even that of legend.
Sentences often contain three or four words, then, later, bombard the reader in their fully lush cinematic quality.
Chapters, paragraphs, bombastic words themselves at times fall on the reader like buckets of ice-cold water.
The prose itself is what gives the book its glimmer, its personality.
Language keeps metamorphosing (like the kids themselves turn before our eyes into men) in tone & age, as 3rd person narration becomes 1st (or even--gasp!--2nd) at a moment's whim.
I almost quit reading this book after the first few pages.
I never expected it to be so Irish, and me, having never read anything by an Irish author before, was thoroughly confused for the first 20 pages at least.
And then my brain got used to the language, and I proceeded to read one of the most beautiful, tragic, devastating and honest books I've ever read.
Their friendship, their love and their understanding and simple acceptance of each other is extraordinarily beautiful to me.
While it might be difficult to keep reading it at times, it is entirely worth it.
Wow. From first to last an amazing book. Be sure to read the first edition; later American editions omit a difficult prefatory section written in unrelentingly difficult Irish and from the perspective of a drunkard. It's not for nothing that one reviewer called O'Neill the love child of Oscar Wilde and James Joyce (can you even imagine???). It's a love story--multiple love stories, actually--set on the eve of the Easter Rebellion and as heartbreaking as anything I've ever read. Promise yourself that you'll keep reading (lots of people find the first fifty pages difficult): it's absolutely worth it.
If Tolstoy has Anna and Levin as characters to illustrate or witness the transformation of Russian from that of traditional Asian to modern Western, O’Neill has two or three gay men, lovers Jim Mack and Doyler Doyle and the Oscar Wilde clone, Anthony MacMurrough to depict how political turmoil can seep through the lives of Irish people regardless of their sexuality.
I learned so much about Ireland during that time and this book reminded me of my favorite Irish works like those of Joyce James in A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, James Kellman’s Kieron Smith, boy, Frank McCourt’s Angela’s Ashes (oh, I have to read his ’Tis and Teacher Man someday soon!) and even the 2000 movie Billy Elliot.

Glasthule is a quintessential Irish village that O’Neill has populated with a cast of colourful characters: Jim Mack, the sixteen-year-old ingénue, unworldly to the point of being naïve; Doyler Doyle, similar in age but worldly in all the ways Jim isn’t, and a socialist-patriot; Mr. Mack, Jim’s father and an inveterate social-climber, both for himself and his son; Eveline MacMurrough, Glasthule’s local gentry and leading citizen; Anthony MacMurrough.
The melancholy ending also reflects the unwritten, pre-Stonewall (1969) rule that covert or overt gay characters couldn’t be allowed an ‘happily-ever-after’ ending.Representing the Irish Nationalist movement of the period, O’Neill has surprisingly assigned Eveline MacMurrough, and to some extent Curate Father O’Toiler—although his nationalism is firmly grounded in the interest of the Catholic Church as the national church.
This book is the "Wuthering Heights" of gay-themed fiction.
Among the tragically sparse population of novels about same-sex relationships that aren't relegated to the Gay Fiction section but are allowed to rub shoulders with the rest of the mainstream and literary fiction, O'Neill's book stands as a monolith among lesser pretenders.I won't lie to you, it's not the easiest read ever.
The Irish patois is very thick and at first it's slow going, but within about twenty pages I had gotten the rhythm of O'Neill's dialect, and it started to make sense.
It is a very moving, dense yet quiet, tender coming-of-age story of youth and friendship and love.
I didn't find it to be pretentious, or contrite, or over-the-top, nor was it bogged down by the silly, cliche plot devices that so many modern writers are using, i.e.: sex, melodrama, unneccessary angst, gay-for-you, menage, cheating...etc...
This point is further proven for me in the fact that I may not have liked everything that happened plot-wise or even the ending, but it did not change my opinion about what a beautiful and touching story this is.
I reflect on this book fondly and it gives me a warm, tender feeling each time.
Their stories, and that of so many more characters, collide when Irish nationalism, sexual orientation, Catholic guilt, alcoholism, class identity, socialism, wars, unwed pregnancy, unionism, and loyalty push and pull them in directions they couldn’t imagine.I read this book twice.
It is a hard read, the author writes in first person, stream of consciousness and uses an Irish dialect and slang.
And the love story between Jim and Doyler is so innocent and awkward and moving, I fell in love with the boys myself.-------------------------------3/8/14: I was just thinking about how I need to read this one for the third time.
This is a love story on many levels.O'Neill gives us a story centered around two young men, one seemingly naive and sweet, the other street smart, made to grow up quickly - "pal of each others' hearts" they are.
O'Neill's story and characters did not win me over immediately, I didn't even recognize them as complicated or gray for quite a while, like so many of my favorite books, the story has to grow on you, evolve and sneak up while your whiling away the time reading about political unrest, religious fear, and improprieties.
At swim, two boys.It is a strange, tender, and imperfect love story, as well as, a tale about the search for belonging, acceptance.
The combination of a luscious prose style and interesting love story combined to provide for an enjoyable experience for this reader.
However, both the difficulties I had with the dialect and confusion over the events (not being that expert in Irish history of the World War I era) detracted from my overall enjoyment.
I was at another disadvantage in my ignorance of Catholicism which also impeded my appreciation of the story.Nonetheless the book captured me as I'm sure it has other readers, with the passion of the characters and use of language that was truly inspiring.
Especially works by authors who wouldn't necessarily come to my attention through best seller lists or word of mouth 'in' books.At Swim, Two Boys was a very enjoyable read, grim and humourous by turns and written in a lyrical way which meshed perfectly with the casts Irish accents.
It's Irish. It's gay. It's got a great title. You can read it in three days. And it's not at all bad. Enjoy yourself for a change.
The story of Jim and Doyler, “At Swim, Two Boys” explores the complexity of two boys’ emerging love for each other against the backdrop of Ireland’s 1916 Easter Rising.
No juice, the tram-man told him.
It is the heady confusion of the boys’ affection for each other and the complex portrait of emerging Irish nationhood that spur the reader on.Pegged at 200,000 words, “At Swim, Two Boys” is also a book made rich by the possibilities of the English language: animated spoken speech, diverging, difficult accents, lyrical writing interrupted by abrupt pivots from one point of view to another.
In the beginning, I thought O'Neill was trying a bit too hard to be Joyce (and failing), but he laid off a bit after the first twenty pages or so and I stopped minding it.Biggest factor in my giving this a three- instead of two-star review is the character MacMurrough, who started out with four different people living in his head, all opposing, who eventually came together into one voice.
I totally shipped Jim/MacMurrough more than Jim/Doyle, even though you aren't supposed to.
4.5 stars[writes this through a waterfall of tears] okay so this book was not an easy one to get through. for, while it was beautifully written, it was very Irish and at times it was a bit hard to follow. in saying that though, I was blown away by how lyrical the prose was and how thought-provoking some of the conversations were. basically, even though it took awhile to get through and even though it just destroyed my heart, I am so glad that I didn't give up on this book
Hayrina bir yayınevi de şu güzelim konulu kitabı çevirse, wonderful olmaz mı!? ^^
There are plenty of loose ends, which makes the book ultimately fall short of its potential as an epic on the scale of "Les Miserables" (again, the comparison to a mighty work of classic literature like Hugo's epic is too generous for this book, but the fact that I can't help but make it does say something about, at the very least, the scope of O'Neill's).
In this regard the book really tugs at my heart, and I feel part of this is because of how unaccustomed I am to seeing love stories between two boys portrayed in a way that isn't chaste and psychoanalytical (looking at you, Proust) or smutty (not that there's anything wrong with smut.
It's not like any of the gay novels that I've read before, and believe me, I've read quite a few.
The book takes place in Ireland, and so I assume that a lot of the words that I did not understand were not words ordinarily used in the English dictionary.
I say this book is not like any other gay novel I've read because it isn't.
What I would like to know is if any of the events that occured in this novel actually happened.
Ha, of course, the author probably IS from Ireland, though the book was published in America, according to the title page.
(hide spoiler)]Idk, i'm not even sad about the ending, it was kinda expected from the nature of the story, this is a war tell, about personal discovery during hard times, friendship, love, and political defiance.
Had i enjoyed it more if it was written in a modern language and just keep the dialogue with the irish slang, also straighten more the plot because it seems that it tangents at times with the revolution therefore doesn't feeling integral with the story between the boys until past 90%The characters are great, i like the Mcmurroughs, Evaline was cool, McEmm too, he's complicated but in the end i warmed up to him.
Actually I think he was the main character of the book, and the boys seemed to be symbols of desires for him, one sexual and the other more platonic.
IN A WAY THAT I WANTED THE BOOK MORE FOCUSED ON THE BOYS!This is a tragic love story and that made it even more difficult, the way these young people’s lives and fates were ravaged by politics, religion, beliefs, war, poverty and many other damn things wasn’t easy to read, my heart was ripped for Doyler’s life and at the end for Jim. Oh, I HATED the ending!
While the language is a bit difficult to grasp - the author writes in a very distinct Irish syntax - you get used to it after the first 50 pages or so.
It's absolutely worth getting through those first few pages to get to the heart of this beautifully constructed love story.
Jane Eyre, Jo March and Laurie, Kavalier and Clay all come to mind...and now, Jim and Doyler.
Jim and Doyler's friendship blossoms throughout the novel into something that all of us dream of and yet rarely seem to find: absolute love.
I highly recommend it to anyone with an open mind and a receptive heart.
I just read this amazing novel for the second time. (I first read it some years back when the book was released.) I was amazed of how much of the story did not make an impression then, but seemed to powerful now. It's a story of young budding love in beautiful Ireland, but all against a world revolution, the Catholic Church, class divisions and extreme poverty.And it's really a great story of pride, and saying love – for whomever – is okay and beautiful. I feel as though I've just come from a trip to Ireland....
A classic love story with a few fine twists, set in 1915–1916 against the turbulence of Irish politics and society. Jamie O'Neill has been compared to both Joyce and Dickens (for his facility with language, and his comic characters). Discard any trashy notions of a "gay fiction" — think more of the austere aesthetic of "Chariots of Fire" or Mary Renalt's pathbreaking The Charioteer. Richly written, avoiding cliché, At Swim deserves all the hype it got when it was first published.
This is the second time I've read this novel, and the second time I've found it to be an amazing experience.Set mainly in Glasthule in 1915 and 1916, the novel follows the main characters of Mr Mack and his son Jim, Mr Mack's former service colleague Doyle, and his son Doyler, Nancy, a maid in the 'big house', a member of the holy orders and priest, and the MacMurroughs, Eva, daughter of a respected Irish patriot and her nephew, Anthony, recently resident with her due to circumstances that become clear as the novel progresses.
The freedom of a country, of identity, and those denied it.Through the lives of a few characters, Jamie O’Neill guides us through events in the year before the Easter Rising in Ireland and the events that took place during the fights from freedom in the streets of Dublin.
And while Doyler is determined to fight for his country, Jim feels his country are those he loves.
I sometimes struggle to articulate what I love about a certain book without writing a lengthy review and I’m trying to avoid that.
At the center of the story are Jim and Doyler, childhood friends who fall in love as young men during a turbulent time in Ireland’s history.
Now having said that, the truth is that this is a story about three men: Jim, Doyler and MacMurrough, or “MacEmm” as Jim comes to call him.
He is a man with demons but he proves his worth in the end and he has an indelible part to play in Jim and Doyler’s story.
This is a beautifully written story about 2 boys coming to age in 1916-18 in a small town outside of Dublin, Ireland. It left me incredibly sad that some people are left so alone because of their sexual preferences, age, gender and other factors that they cannot change. Although it didn't resonate with me as much as did to others, it is a wonderfully written book.
Glorious! Read the 1st 50 pages or so out loud or at least subvocalize the words to really understand what a drunkin' Irishman sounds like and means. I'm going to re-read this, at interval, for joy and to do a review justice.
An affront to my saturnine temper. I still prefer love stories that end all horrible/tragic (see: Book of Memories, Peter Nadas), but Jamie O'Neill makes a respectable run at happiness.
