https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40496.How_Green_Was_My_Valley
I feel I belong in that small Welsh mining town, that I should be spending all of my time supporting my family and town, singing with friends, learning voraciously, worshiping God intelligently and recognizing Him in every aspect of life, fiercely defending my friends, loving foolishly and uncontrollably, revering nature and losing myself in valleys, groves, creeks, and hill sides, or fighting and fighting and fighting with passionate words and quick fists for people, places and ideas that need me.----------------------------So it's 2 years later and I haven't updated this review yet.
"How Green Was My Valley" is a book about nostalgia and it is told from the point of view of Huw, who is now an elder, but who reflects back on his life and his childhood in the valleys of Wales.
This novel was wonderfully written with beautiful passages on life as well as note-worthy anecdotes on Huw's childhood and amazing family.
A few passages became a bit too dense in their descriptions, but most of them were wonderful.
RESEÑA COMPLETA: https://cronicasdemagrat.wordpress.co...Me ha gustado muchísimo, especialmente la primera mitad del libro, porque los relatos de infancia me fascinan.... y más si están descritos con esa nostalgia y en un ambiente tan peculiar como un pueblo minero en la Gales del final de la época victoriana.Me ha sorprendido la crudeza pero a la vez la ternura que desprende esta historia, y me quedo con sus personajes, con todos pero especialmente con nuestro protagonista... en pocas ocasiones he conseguido coger tanto cariño a un personaje protagonista de un libro ♥
He'll describe a self-righteous man looking up with eyes "hurting in goodness" or innumerate the beatings of his heart and lyrics tumbling away to Forgot as he stands in church to sing a solo...
"I have come up here to tell you what I do think of you all, because I have heard you are talking against my husband.
Nobody will go to Hell for killing lice."FAVORITE QUOTES:I never met anybody whose talk was better than good food.
You might as well kick a dog for not wishing good morning." (Mr. Gruffydd)"I thought when I was a young man that I would conquer the world with truth.
Examples:  Page 88, "O, blackberry tart, with berries as big as your thumb, purple and black, and thick with juice, and a crust to endear them that will go to cream in your mouth, and both passing down with such a taste that will make you close your eyes and wish you might live for ever in the wideness of that rich moment." Page 159, "There is beautiful to watch a mountain sleeping, and other mountains in the other valleys rising up like bits of blue velvet to make you feel you could cut a piece and wear it for a coat, to dance in above the fat clouds." Page 165, "Sing then.
Mining is a way of life here, and there is pride in the skill of the work and in the role Wales plays in Britain's growing power.As Huw matures the tone of the book darkens.
The history lesson was terrific and an excellent complement to Elizabeth Gaskell's brilliant North and South, as well as my non-fiction reads on industrialization and populist and socialist movements in Britain and the U.S.As Huw grows, so does the vast heap of mine tailings--slag mountains that tower over the town, pressing in relentlessly on his home, the refuge that he and his family love so well.
3.5 StarsSo is this a good book? Yes.Did I feel the magic of it?Sadly, No.Why not?I wish I knew.Sometimes, a book pulls you and holds you and it becomes your special possession forever more. Many people have that kind of experience with How Green Was My Valley. I truly thought I would as well. But it didn't happen for me. It was worth reading but....what can I say?There is something missing, there is. My heart never became involved.
My sister gave me her copy of this book in a big sack of books and snacks and magazines the morning my husband and I set out to drive across the country, moving to Delaware from Utah.
The writing was so gorgeous, so tender and deeply felt, that I couldn't not share it.
I'm pretty sure I could tell you each episode of the book, in order.
Such a beautiful book .
now that I'm writing this I think I need to get my own copy and reread it.
I kept my sister's copy for years, and would occasionally take it down to read a page or two.
Different times and places but the same loss of a way of life & the same sense of sadness.Some of Llewellyn's descriptions caught my breath such as this one of Angharad when fighting with 14-year-old Huw:" 'I hate you,' she said, and wrapped her cloak round her so that she was a black pillar, with a white face and her eyes with glitter and shine to make you afraid."Even though I knew the ending, I found myself weeping.
It wasn't just (view spoiler)[the death of Huw's father but the sense of alone-ness with all his brothers gone, one dead and 4 overseas.
We know the beautiful green valley is going to change and probably not for the better.
It is truly beautiful!So everything is there for the perfect book: haunting coming-of-age-story; immensely likable main character, Huw; large, varied and loving family; idyllic setting—the 'green valley' of a Welch mining town; romance, drama and humor, even if it's all set to change.
It's a bitter sweet little story which I can already tell isn't going to end especially happily, but I've fallen in love with the characters and the setting so that doesn't matter.
A few times in my reading life I have been so been so touched by a book that when it is over I feel a great loss and literally clasp the book to my chest like a loved-one just departed.
That's how I feel about this lovely, beautiful, wonderful book.
I am afraid nothing I read will ever make me feel like this.
I feel quite touched by it.
The focus is on a big wonderful family that loves each other very much though they sure do have their share of trouble.
With books like this, it's enough.
I'm having a hard time figuring out how to rate this book.On the one hand I recognize that it is beautifully written.
I told him I'd already read more than 300 pages so I had a pretty good feel for what I need to read in order to follow the plot.I felt like I had been very patiently waiting for the author to set the stage and give me all of the background and let me get to know the characters.
It just wasn't enough for me.And so I can't rate the book very high, because that would be like recommending it, which I don't really.
More specifically Huw Morgan's life, with him reminiscing about his childhood and the valley that was his home.
Thankfully, most of the book was about his childhood rather than his adulthood.-I found Huw's parents quite irritating, Gwilym was so self righteous and Beth was so backwards, I guess that was realistic though for the time.
Even though they were great together as a couple, they were rubbish parents, I hated how they ruined Angharad's life by pushing her to marry Iestyn instead of Gruffydd.
-I was disappointed with where the story ended, I would have liked to know more about Huw's family and the valley.
And I wonder how much he came in contact with Welsh Nonconformism, because the chapel was a part of his story but it definitely didn't have the same effect I see even in more modern Welsh work like Emyr Humphreys'.So, maybe I would have enjoyed How Green Was My Valley more if I hadn't read it at the same time as I was reading the hard, unshowy works by working class writers who were also miners.
BUT, it just felt so incredibly slow for most of the book, and I found the self righteousness of the characters (and of the time) to grow stale and repetitive.
It seemed odd that the book began with the main character leaving the valley, yet as the story of his childhood and coming of age unfolds, you never get to the point where he came to the decision to leave the valley.
Unfortunately, I never felt fully invested in the characters or engaged in the story which made it difficult to pick back up when there are so many other books whispering my name....
Robinson Crusoe ile birlikte tahıl yetiştirmiş, Bereketli Topraklar'da bir barakanın yükselişine heyecanlanmıştım.
Sonra Üç Silahşörler, Parma Manastırı ve daha onlarcası.Işte bu kitapta da yıllar sonra, çocukluğumda yaşadığım o doymak bilmez bir merakla takip ettim akışı.
Her bir karakteri tek tek tanıdım.
O mahkeme sahnesinde diğer tüm katılımcılarla birlikte ben de oradaydım ve nefesimi tutup yargıçın dudağından dökülecekleri bekledim.
Dai'nin çelik gibi bileğinin ve yumruklarının arkasında güven ve huzurla ben ilerledim.
Onun sırlarını sakladım.Vadim O Kadar Yeşildi Ki, bir grup maden işçisinin hikayesini anlatmıyor yalnızca, onlar bütün insanlık.
Büyük insanlığın içindeki kum taneleri olan küçük insanları hikayesi.Hepimizin vadisi, o kadar yeşil olan; bir zamanlar.
What can I say? This novel was right up my alley.It revolves around a family and their lives in all their complexity and their amazing simplicity, set in a Welsh coal mining village (which was a unusual setting for me). It was wonderfully written, at once intimate, profound and simple. I loved that it detailed a way of life, harsh, but simple in a way, that is now lost for the most part.The story is narrated by Huw Morgan, and he has a unique, candid, wise and totally human voice. The parents were also wonderful figures in the novel.A must-read.
My emotions become tied up in all of the books I have loved over the years, and it matters very little what genre they are or what the writing style is or when they were written and by whom.
But his is a heart that knows how to love and he watches closely over the members of his family as they encounter the myriad trials and heartaches of life and as he himself is put through the painful process of growing up and becoming a man.
I would love this book for the language alone, if for nothing and no one else.
This was the second time I read this (the first being when I was a young teenager.) I'll be reading it again throughout my life, I'm sure.
Times aren't really so different now and it was good to read my husband's thoughts and feelings on the pages of a book published 70 years ago, so beautifully and accurately written by Llewellyn.
Maybe that is what made the book so touching to me: it hit on the joys and travails of life that are universal.
Took 3 tries and quite a lot of pages but I ended up really liking it.
Mass on mass of tone, with a hard edge, and rich with quality, every single note a carpet of colour woven from basso profundo, and basso, and baritone, and alto, and tenor, and soprano, and alto and mezzo, and contralto, singing and singing, until life and all things living are become a song." Memories of a Welsh coal miner's family home are deftly painted on the mind's eye, simple but rich scenes: " Indeed, if happiness has a smell, I know it well, for our kitchen has always had it faintly, but in those days it was all over the house.""Dear little house that I have lived in, there is happiness you have seen, even before I was born.
How Green Was My Valley offers the reader to step into pre-industrialized Wales and watch the traditions, customs slip away as times change.
The story follows Huw Morgan through the course of his life focusing on his coming-of-age years and how his beliefs were formed and the lessons he learns along the way.Huw's beliefs are influenced heavily by his parents, brothers and village preacher.
The preacher doesn't fit the traditional mold often opting for mercy over church rules.The language and color of this book is beautiful to behold.
I felt I had truly seen the mountain sleeping, just there, curled on its side, and felt the low, cold wind whistle past.
My mind fell easily into the cadence of the dialect, and sung to itself with each welsh name.
For me, this book's beauty read sharply, showing strength in simple naturalistic description and dialogue.
I already miss the hearth with its ever-present tea, and cry again for the valley.Some reviewers have addressed the author's fraud, but I did not consider it while reading.
But anyway, just go ahead and see the mountain for yourself.
Her mother was born in Wales, not from a mining family, I don’t think.
(My mother had died by then, and my grandmother died before I was born so I never met my grandmother; I think the book made me feel closer to that part of the family.
I had met a couple of the (Jewish) Welsh relatives when they visited the U.S.) But I remember that I did really like the family story and the writing style.
Appreciated the Guide to Pronunciation of Welsh names that’s in the back of the book, even though it was only somewhat helpful.
My father and mother, Ivor and Bron, and Davy were all round the table listening, and everybody quiet, pretending not to look.We were doing very well, up to the kind of sum when a bath is filling at the rate of so many gallons and two holes are letting the water out, and please to say how long will it take to fill the bath, when my mother put down the socks she was darning and clicked her tongue in impatience."What is the matter?" my father asked her."That old National School," my mother said.
This book was even better the second time around.
I truly agreed with the review by Wesley and hope he will forgive me for quoting him because it sums up the feelings I had about this book even though I was not so able to voice them -"I feel I belong in that small Welsh mining town, that I should be spending all of my time supporting my family and town, singing with friends, learning voraciously, worshiping God intelligently and recognizing Him in every aspect of life, fiercely defending my friends, loving foolishly and uncontrollably, revering nature and losing myself in valleys, groves, creeks, and hill sides, or fighting and fighting and fighting with passionate words and quick fists for people, places and ideas that need me."One of my favorite passages comes when Huw is walking back over the mountain from taking Bronwen and Olwen to town.
Huw, the main character and narrator, remembers blackberry pies, the joy of books, his mother's cooking and his first love in a brutal contrast to the rapid industrialization that threatens the family and their town, the dangerous work in coal mines and even hunger and violence around him.
It's a story of love, loss, family, friendship, the devastating reality of the coal mines and the many struggles for workers wanting fair payment; it's a story of economy and industrialization, hunger and illness, and very much a story of a child's resilience and ways to cope with the harsh reality.But, most of all, it's a poetic masterpiece.
I have a short attention span and, thus, have a hard time reading books by people like, say, Steinbeck or Hardy, where the scenery becomes a character...meaning there are endless passages describing meadows and livestock.
I once gave a presentation to a group of women about books I recommend for book groups, and when I mentioned this one, one of the old women - let me say this again, she was OLD and shouldn't be this rude - raised her hand and said, "You're not honestly going to recommend 'How 'Dry' was My Valley' are you?" Yes, chickie, yes I am....
Durante gran parte de la lectura de esta novela (más de la mitad) estaba convencida de que acabaría dándole 5 estrellas.
Pero sólo un pelín.Sigue siendo una novela muy interesante que rezuma vida por los cuatro costados.No hay un gran argumento, es más bien una novela costumbrista que nos cuenta la historia de una familia, los Morgan, y con ella la historia de todos los habitantes del valle donde viven.Reconozco que las escenas de pelea (demasiadas para mi gusto aunque no muchas) me han privado de parte del cariño que sentía por los personajes pero en cualquier caso, es una novela que merece mucho, mucho la pena.
