https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/116982.The_Hand_of_Oberon
Corwin also finally learned the full truth regarding the events that left him where we found the guy in the beginning of the series - a psychiatric ward.
Random became a family man, Benedict had to face an uneasy truth, Julian did some more explaining - this time about the events of the first book, and absolutely nobody was bored.
This is a unique series in the sense that if you want to understand how Amber world is built, a serious workout of imagination is required in each book as you always learn something that forces you to re-think your ideas.
I have read four books of this now and I still don't have a clue as to why any of these immortal fops actually care what happens to Amber.
Considering Zelazny has infinite scope to explore whatever worlds he likes given the premise, he really doesn't take the characters anywhere interesting or do anything novel whatsoever.It is a massive disappointment after Zelazny's early works such as Lord of Light and This Immortal, which at least hinted at something special.
There is nothing wrong in my book with pulp adventure, provided it is done well, but this series entirely lacks the wit or sparkle of fellow pulp genre writers like Moorcock, Vance or PKD.

Oh shit! The ending of this book was brilliant! I really was not expecting anything of what happened to happen. Definitely my favorite of the series so far. Looking forward to the conclusion of the books on Corwin

For me, The Amber Chronicles started getting really good with the third novel, Sign of the Unicorn.
Now, with more (but definitely not all) of the cards on the table, it's interesting to see how Corwin handles an ever degrading situation in Amber, especially when he doesn't know who he can trust.I think one of the things that really makes this series special is Corwin.
I ended up just skimming them, because the details didn't really matter, just the outcome.Overall, I really liked this novel and The Amber Chronicles are quickly becoming one of my favorite fantasy series.
there are a lot of shifts in this book.some things you thought true are not and some things that you didn't even know become important.
Book four of the Amber series, like book three, suffers at times from too much re-explaining what happened in the prior books (somewhat necessary as the latest plot revelations - not to mention family intrigue - create new interpretations of prior events) and most of the plot is oriented towards setting up the sequel. HoO has more surprises than the prior book however, right down to the final paragraph of the last chapter (view spoiler)[from which the book takes its title (hide spoiler)].
It is pretty sad when my favorite part of a book is the last sentence. Why couldn't a revelation like that happen in the middle? The world is getting expanded nicely but when there is a legitimate threat to the existence of their universe, I should probably feel some type of emotion about that. But I don't. I don't care at all about any of the characters. The concept of the Trumps is the only thing keeping me interested.
what ???who in the flaying holy flaming fuck is Ganeton ?
The road to Amber keeps getting twisty and full of surprises. I'm glad I have the next book ready to read because the ending of this book just drives you onward to find out what's really happening here.
The unicorn has lead Corwin to an amazing discovery at the end of the third novel, but an even more startling one is coming up by the end of this one.In fact, in this volume you learn exactly who conspired against Corwin right from the start, who was allied with whom, and how their power play was supposed to unfold.
Well, maybe some of Arthur Clarke’s early work or Heinlein as well, but I stray.Now, with only one novel left in the first Amber series, you would expect this, the fourth book, to end in a bang to force you to read the last.And boy, what a whopper of a reveal on the last page.I’ll say no more.
Volume 4 holds the reader's attention by making the plot of the series more complicated--if that is even possible.
Zelazny does offer the reader a much-needed recap of the first three books, as well as something more important: an explanation of why the characters don't simply just live in any Shadow of their own design.
In fact, it is the means by which we can tell one another from shadows of ourselves." In other words, once you know what reality is really like--once you are "attuned" to it, as the characters all say about Corwin and the Jewel of Judgment--you notice all the imperfections in any Shadow.
With Corwin and Ganelon and Random having found the true Pattern, and seeing how the damage was done, Ganelon grabs it despite the danger.
Leading to the conclusion that Random's son Martin was probably murdered there.Followed by a summary of the first three books that would have been better in a "what has gone before" section -- eminently skippable -- and Random, after learning something about Martin from their brother Benedict, hares after him.Corwin goes back to the cell where he was imprisoned in the first book, and the drawing that let him escape.
I tried to re-read some sci-fi/fantasy that I loved as a 13, 14-year old, and I could not believe how bad those books sound now; flat characters, silly plots.
But this is definitively not the case with the mind-bending experimentations of the new wave.
Upon re-reading, they just become much much better, and this is particularly the case with Chronicles of Amber.What started something like an urban fantasy in the first book of the Amber series, in The Hand of Oberon, it became a pure psychedelic poetry when describing "moving through shadows", and following dream-like logics and twists of the book.
This is one of my favourite book/series of all time.
To be honest, I read all of the first Amber Series novels in rapid succession so to me it's all one continuous story. I rate them all pretty-much the same, with the exception of the first one, which got the series off to an awesome start so I gave it 5 stars. I loved all the books and couldn't put any of them down.
Things are really heating up now - the interfamily relations are getting intense. So many twists and turns, and the book contained two truly badass battles, arguably more. I am loving this series, and glad I'm ripping through it at such a rapid rate.
Unul din cele mai bune volume ale seriei. Sunt explicate unele acțiuni trecute, este povestită o parte din istoria familiei, a Amberului. Ca de obicei intrigile familiale sunt dominante, însă nimic nu pregătește surpriza de la final.
Šis bija labs un laikam esmu sērijā labi iegrimis, jo biju uzminējis vienu ļoti nozīmīgu lietu, kas atklājās tikai beigās :)

Том втори от „Хрониките на Амбър” съдържа поредните четири романа (части от 4 до 7) от многотомната фентъзи сага на доайена Роджър Зелазни. Легендарната поредица е задължителна за феновете на жанра и съвсем с право е включена в колекцията на издателство „Бард” „Велики майстори на фентъзи и фантастика”. Прочетете ревюто на "Книжни Криле":https://knijnikrile.wordpress.com/201...
Хотела уже бросить серию на этой книге, но тут автор наконец-то расшевелился. Читаю дальше.
ეს ნაწილი ყველაზე მეტად მომეწონააა<3
You can just read THE CORWIN CYCLE (which I think is better) and decide later if you want to move on to the second arc.In The Hand of Oberon, Corwin has just discovered that the pattern in Amber is not the first pattern.
I want to love Amber, too, but Zelazny doesn’t really give me a reason to love it.The Hand of Oberon moves very fast and ends with another big twist.
Most readers will want to have the next book, The Courts of Chaos, on hand.Pay attention to the dungeon scene.
It's the current read for the Zelazny group:http://www.goodreads.com/group/show/2...The first few books rocked, but the last, Sign of the Unicorn, ended on a real cliff hanger.
There's a bit too much summation in some parts, more than I recall Zelazny ever doing in another book, but it serves a purpose & does tie the story together tighter.
After that, there are 5 books in the Merlin Cycle & then Betancourt wrote a prelude; a trilogy & the first book of a duology.
Unfortunately, the publisher folded after the first of the duology (4th of the Oberon Cycle) & it is doubtful if the last book will ever be published.
Lots of twists and turns here as assumptions that have been made since the first book are challenged.
What is the point of the twist right at the end?
The opening of book 4 here contains one of the most tedious narrative recaps I can remember, with a character literally spending several pages telling the plot to another character.
I'd rather read this than some crap like Goodkind or something, but I'd rather read a lot of other things than this.
I think I am going to stop after the next book in any case.
-¿Es la familia lo más importante?.-Género. Narrativa Fantástica.Lo que nos cuenta. El unicornio ha servido para localizar un estrato de realidad todavía más profundo que la propia Ámbar y al intentar recorrer el Patrón con mácula Corwin, Random y Ganelón tienen un extraño enfrentamiento con una bestia de comportamiento raro y terminan descubriendo que alguien ha llevado a cabo ritos peligrosos que implican posibles sacrificios de un miembro de la familia. Cuarto libro de la saga Crónicas de Ámbar.¿Quiere saber más de este libro, sin spoilers? Visite:http://librosdeolethros.blogspot.com/...
Since each of the books in Roger Zelazny's the "Chronicles of Amber" series (both the Corwin and the Merlin sub-series) flows from one to the next without pause or summary, they really can't be rated individually. For the positive, here is where Zelazny starts revealing what's really been happening behind the scenes. For the less than positive, one of a certain character's characteristics get awfully stretched by the end. But, as with the other books in the series, I'm rating this one at a Very Good 4 stars out of 5.
Early on in this book, Corwin lays out the story so far as he understands it, piecing together the revelations of the first three book. I appreciated this summary, sparing me some rereading. Then our understandings shift as new events unfold. There is a large cast of powerful characters, each with his or her own agenda. Who is actually pretty decent? Who is the traitor? The ending is a surprise engineered to keep the plot roiling for more books ahead. A surprise, perhaps, but heavily foreshadowed when you look back at past events.Onward to "The Courts of Chaos"!
The way Zelazny writes is incredible~! All of his novels, that I've read so far are like a narrative, as seen in the eyes of Corwin, one of the nine princes of Amber. If you are a fan of fantasy novels, I highly highly recommend checking this author out! I'd also recommend purchasing the Chronicles of Amber, since all 10 books are in there, and it's a great value AND you can go from book to book just by turning the page!
