https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/712665.Last_Train_to_Memphis
One of the most exhilarating stories ever told. Guralnick accomplishes something astonishing -- he rescues Elvis from myth, in the process reaffirms his legend. This volume chronicles Elvis's early life -- his crackling charisma, musical inventiveness and genuine iconoclasm. The backdrop is America in transformation -- postwar restlessness, racial integration and (much needed) rebellion. In the end, we see why America needed Elvis, and why, sadly, his tragic fall was so inevitable. As good a book as I've ever read.
Reviewers say it’s the best book on Elvis around.
To my delight, Elvis’s Army buddy Rex Mansfield is mentioned several times (and quoted) towards the end of the book – I met Rex in the course of my career in utility equipment sales.
Rex was a rep for American equipment in Germany, and visited us several times at the factory.
He told us Elvis stories, which pretty much thrilled me.
Lots of girls over in Germany when you hung out with Elvis.
Lots of girls… Pretty cool to say I know a guy who knew Elvis.
A sharply-rendered and painstakingly-detailed account of Elvis' early days.
Guralnick's narrative prose is simple, even crude, but his material is richly precise: in some places, we get an almost day-by-day account of Elvis' life and career, with sources split neatly between firsthand interviews and the author's own historical knowledge, which is impressive.
Guralnick is, it should be noted, a far better historian than he is a writer, and there are whole blocks of prose that ramble indistinctly and contribute little to the story.
Still, the story is what counts, and when it is allowed to upstage the weak writing, this book is worth a read -even if you aren't a fan of Elvis.
the Elvis book left me speechless and amazed.
Have you ever seen "Jesus Camp?" It was kinda like that but with Elvis instead of Jesus and I only cried when Gladiolus died near the end.
To say Elvis is iconic from Tokyo to Mobile and cult like for many that hide in Dixie caves is an understatement.
A figure so discussed, loved, hated, mocked and glorified is anything but human.
But this book makes Elvis a human.
That’s the best compliment i can give a biography, especially when dealing with an epic figure.
If you are a fan of Elvis, this is your book.
Guralnick goes into painstaking detail on Elvis' life from the time he was a young boy getting his first guitar through the death of his beloved mother and shipping off to Germany as PFC Elvis Presley.
For superfans, this is definitely a book worth reading.
It was entertaining and interesting and I will read the second book in the series.
The Kindle version that I read included audio clips of some of the interviews that Guralnick conducted with some key people in Elvis' life.
Peter Guralnick's books on American R&B, Soul, Country, Blues and Rock and Roll are all heartfelt, deeply researched, and written nearly entirely in the third person, and that last bit separates him from the self aggrandizing that mars the writing of so many other music writers covering the same ground.
Guralnick is the anti-Albert Goldman - no armchair psychoanalysis of the budding sexual preferences or the Oedipal domestic arrangements of his subject will be found, but instead a sympathetic treatment that pulls you into the unlikely story of Elvis' success.
Presley nursed a gift that was bigger than he was.
The gentle boy who loved his mother and who never seemed to be anything other than caring (if a little fickle) with his many girlfriends, who was spiritual and clean living - warning his mother against the horrors of drink when she had a beer late at night, who seemed so lonely he ended up with a local entourage to protect and keep him company, was also, undeniably, a very ambitious man.
This really is THE Elvis biography and continues with "Careless Love", which I am really looking forward to reading.
Long live the King!
It is a really cool look at 50s culture in the U.S., and the development of the first true music mega-star.
This book will also appeal to people interested in Southern culture.
Guralnick does a great job with describing the alignment of hemispheres that allowed Elvis to became the huge sensation that he was.
I was particularly facinated in the details of Elvis' first long-term relationships; both women were interviewed extensively.
My only complaint was the length of the book (576 pages); toward the end, I was just looking forward to finishing.
I'm taking a breather before reading the sequel about the decline of The King.
So good that I'm all shook up. 500 million stars.
Last Train to Memphis: The Rise of Elvis Presley is beautifully written portrait of Presley's early years -- his impoverished childhood in Tupelo, Mississippi, the move to Memphis in his teenage years, and the amazingly rich and complex soup of musical influences that city offered to a shy, sensitive boy with a huge love of singing and music of all kinds.The Elvis you meet in this book is not the troubled, larger-than life, jumpsuit-wearing star of the Vegas years that may first spring to mind when you think of him.
Without her as his moral compass, he was never the same again.Guralnick continues Presley's life story in the second volume of his biography, Careless Love: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley.
A family friend got his autograph for me which I lost soon after (damn & double-damn!)and this is the point where this book - the first of a two-part biography - closes.
The author, an early fan of the music, spent 11 years tracking down all the surviving friends and associates of Elvis and tells the story as if he were looking through a keyhole, recording conversations and first impressions and opinions from such a wide number of people that you begin to feel you are there yourself.
Whether you like the music or not (I did even then, I still do!) you cannot help but get caught up in the story.
Since this is the first book I've read about Elvis I can't compare it to the rest of the mountains of scholarship.
While I understand why Guralnick might have toned down his presence in the narrative (an Elvis book is kind of the big leagues) I found his personal relationship to the characters in Sweet Soul Music and Lost Highway to be what elevates those books into sublime territory.
I think that's part of the problem - by attempting to fashion a definitive portrait of the great Elvis I felt the narrative lost some of its energy.
My first contact with Elvis was through my older brother who listened to his music religiously.
Now that I can look back on Elvis and his impact on the music business, I can easily see why he is the "King" and how he was able to do what he did.
I remember seeing one of his appearances on Ed Sullivan, and at the end of his performance, Ed came out, shook his hand, and then stood up for him to America.
I remember Elvis taking the compliment with complete humility, and thanking Ed for the kind words.
Bottom line for me is, after all these years, I think I am a little bit in love with Elvis.
When I first picked up this biography I had high expectations because the cover is beautiful and there are some great reviews about it.
I saw a potential but it did not meet any of expectations at all.
There was no connection between the author and his subject, Elvis Presley.
It felt as if reading from an encyclopedia It's either Presley's early life was too boring or the writer's writing is just terrible.
All in all, it is bland, terrible and exhausting.
The omnipotent sex appeal. The innate talent. The taste. The clothes. The moves. Yes, I noticed it too: reading this biography of Elvis Presley was like a plagiarism of my life. The meteoric rise of the Pelvis is documented with great research and even greater restraint, bringing the larger-to-life Presley into a perspective that creates empathy for the man behind the legend. I'm eager to read the companion piece that follows Elvis' tour of duty in the armed servieces and later years to learn how I'll end up. I'm sure it's a happy conclusion.
The definitive volume on the life of Elvis Presley (along with Careless Love: the Unmaking of Elvis Presley, also by Guralnick) observed with both the detail and the distance required of a great biography. Let's face it: Elvis is THE American story about rock and roll, race, fame, and decline—and Guralnick provides the essential details with an attention that could only come from someone who loved Elvis's music.
This was so good. Exciting, moving & so full of detail I felt like I could really see the events being described: a painfully shy Elvis transforming into a ball of energy on stage, coming out as if he had been "shot out of a cannon." Wonderful.
With 'Careless Love', this two-part book about Elvis is one of the best biographies I've ever read. It's completely un-cheesy and treats him seriously. In this first part, it is fascinating to see how he grew as a singer and musician in those early days, up to his time as a GI in Germany.
Tried to read this but it has more detail than could ever be needed for a simple biography. Addresses, names of classmates...it read more like an encyclopedia than a biography. I didn't even get to his teenage years and was interested in learning more about Elvis's life, but this was way too detailed, at least for my purposes.
Super excited to start reading this book.
Yet, that poor white boy, and especially his offbeat interests and obsessions, reveal some mysterious key to the American youth culture that erupted from its adolescent somnambulism in a decade marked by both national prosperity and social unrest.Despite the unquestionable impact of his subject’s emergence on the national scene, Guralnick maintains a local focus; red scares and civil rights never intrude into the personal tale of the Presley family making do among the other urban poor in Memphis.
It was Sunday the third of June 1956 and I was attending one of the first music concerts of my teenage years and it was the first of two concerts Elvis Presley would perform that day.
And I was happy to have been there for that first SF Bay area appearance.Reading this book was both a pleasure and an eye-opener as it went over much of the unknown details about the early life of Elvis Presley.
And now as an adult who lived through the same years as Elvis, I found this book to be a very good reflection of the times, the kind of audience we were, and the way music was changing in the states.
The first book Guralnik wrote about Elvis Presley was a page-turner.
I knew his beginning was Louisiana Hayride and while reading that part of the book was fascinated by the number of people we both knew.
I was fascinated with his activities in Germany and now, having read both volumes of Guralnik's Elvis Presley books I am left to wonder how it affected him that he never performed outside the US, which he sorely wanted to do.
Elvis Presley rose quickly to become the KING OF ROCK AND ROLL.To me, he remains and always will be the KING.
But, as with most art that has achieved recognition, appreciation comes from understanding the context of time and place, and how some new thing shows up on the cultural stage.
This book put Elvis into context for me, explaining how unusual he was as a person growing up, a humble family, influences of faith, and at a time when music of the Southern Delta was still off the map of mainstream American culture.
The book reveals just enough of the singer's idiosyncrasies and contradictions to show his humanity without spoiling the goodness of the person or his talents.
Presley's early years seem somewhat enigmatic and impenetrable to the casual observer (at least to me, I never understood how those records at Sun could have happened), but Guralnick succeeds in immersing the reader in Elvis's life and world with such skill one might forget that they were never there.
I had read many books concerning both Presley and the American 1950's prior to this, but none of them come close to this masterful work.
I'm now eagerly reading the next and final installment of this Guralnick biography, Careless Love: The Unmaking of Elvis Presley, both excited and sad for what is to come.
I'm so glad I read this book - or rather - listened to it on audiobook.
Not only did I learn a ton about the early years and rise of Elvis Presley, I know his early music now!
So much fun to live through those years through interviews of his friends and colleagues from birth in Tupelo to learning how to play the guitar, recording at Sun Records, his first hits, getting on TV and finally getting drafted and going into the Army.
All the while, you really feel like you know Elvis, he was such a good young man, didn't drink, no drugs, loved his parents, took care of them, so much.
You can really get a sense of the humaness and vulnerability of Elvis, Elvis seems like a real person.
I found the book quite piognant, as his youth, innocence, creativity, and interest in music is explored.
The most compelling aspect of this book for me was that I really got a sense of Elvis' creativity and musical and fashion artistry as something real, genuine, non-contrived and down to earth.
I also enjoyed reading about historical connections to American South, African and black American music, and class issues.
However, an intelligent reader with the power to read in between lines should be able to make these connections his or herself.
I've read 97 books in the interim.
I literally had to force myself to pick it up and read another chapter.
Enough to take the life out of Elvis.
Example sentence: "He showed up at the draft board in the M&M Building at 198 South Main at 6:35 the next morning and parked just south of the Malco Theatre." One sentence of so, so many that contains too much information - such as the address of the building and exactly where Elvis parked.
and this book is only Part One. Nothing can make me pick up the next one (which undoubtedly adds "depressing" into the mix).
Fascinating read for one who was never an Elvis fan. I now have a greater appreciation for Elvis and the time period of his meteoric rise in the music industry. Peter Guralnick is a scholarly writer who makes the people of this era multidimensional. Having lived this same time frame, I now better understand my own life.
An excellent book that gives you a great biography of Elvis and his start. My only complaint would be there is too much information.
