https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/422.A_Book_of_Common_Prayer
Qui, l’attore-regista Campbell Scott, incaricato della regia e del ruolo del marito di Charlotte.Mi ha colpito la sensazione che in questo racconto di una donna narrato da un’altra donna, Didion sappia esattamente cosa scrivere, non perda tempo, ma sappia sfruttare quello a sua disposizione, senza eccesso, né di risparmio né di prodigalità.Didion trattiene l’emozione, anche se il melodramma è alla base del mondo che descrive: si adopra per risparmiare parole e scegliere quelle sottotono facendo ampio ricorso all’ironia.
Didion is one of those rare authors that pens hypnotic sentences that weave into paragraphs that make you struggle to recall where you are and why there's drool on your chin. It doesn't matter if she's writing about a fictional banana republic or a non-fictional bout of depression from having outlived her husband and daughter, JD writes sentences that I want to climb into like a warm bed. Ones like this: As a child of the western United States she had been provided as well with faith in the valu
Didion is one of those rare authors that pens hypnotic sentences that weave into paragraphs that make you struggle to recall where you are and why there's drool on your chin.
It doesn't matter if she's writing about a fictional banana republic or a non-fictional bout of depression from having outlived her husband and daughter, JD writes sentences that I want to climb into like a warm bed.
There's a lot of dialogue in this book - more than I can recall in other Didion works - but it's wonderful, like something ripped from the second act of a Wilde play.

E probabilmente il caso di Patricia Hearst, ereditiera che dopo essere stata rapita da un gruppo di terroristi si unisce a loro rapinando banche e uccidendo, ha ispirato più scrittori negli U.S.A, come qui per la figlia della protagonista.Buona l’idea della voce narrante, una donna, che, pur invischiata nel potere, sta morendo di cancro.Ma ho dovuto arrivare al decimo capitolo per cominciare a provare piacere in quello che leggevo.
Sicuramente belle quelle descrizioni ironiche di come guerriglieros e potere si comportano durante un colpo di stato, chiaramente ben orchestrato da chi ha loro procurato armi e quant’altro.Non mi lamento quindi del soggetto o della trama, bensì, e qui si entra nel gusto personale, bensì dello stile della Didion.Lo chiamano minimalista.
Charlotte is hanging around Boca Grande, a fake maybe-El Salvador where she has fled to escape her Joan Didion novel of a past and to submit the enigma of her existence to the former-anthropologist-cum-hobby-scientist-and-ruling-elite narrator's gaze.I personally feel sentimental about the Bay Area in the 1970s, as it's the ground out of which I was grown, and this book fed my hunger for a glimpse of that time.
This is actually just the second Didion novel I've read, but she has such a distinctive style that I keep wanting to make broad pronouncements about her fiction.
As I had recently read The Last Love Song: A Biography of Joan Didion, I decided I' wanted to read some of Joan Didion's novels.
This is the first one I read.It's mainly set somewhere in Central America, about an American woman who is living there, for reasons which are never really fully explained, and narrated by another woman who owns almost the whole place.It's really kind of a strange novel, without much in the way of a discernible plot, and the dialogue is really weird, with most of it not being anything anyone would actually say in real life.
I thought it was an ok book, but didn't really love it or anything like that.
Of course “novel” is a loaded word when it comes to Didion; her journalistic essays and her fiction-prose always blur, which makes for awesome journalism and perplexing prose.
Every character in this novel, bar maybe the prime narrator (another Didion stand-in), seems like any reprimand would only be rationalized away, like a child getting spanked for doing something wrong and never making the connection between the wrong action and the physical pain of the spank.After reading the synopsis I thought this would be a novel companion to Salvador, Didion’s excellent collection of journalistic essays on her time in Central America during the 80s, which for Central and Latin America, was a very black decade (re:genocide).
Several times during Joan Didion's Book of Common Prayer, one character will tell another that they "were wrong." In what almost seems irrelevant.
For a slim book, Didion packs a lot of story, perhaps too much, as she spends, arguably, too much time on Charlotte's first husband, Warren Bogart, an epic, poetry quoting asshole.
Warren is one of the most abusive characters I've run across in all of literature (and I've read a lot).
Well, in a way (daughters gone bad) it does, but for my money, Didion is much closer to the ground in capturing what the 70s were like.
Like Play It As It Lays, this is a supremely disillusioned novel -- in people, in politics -- but the theater across which it plays out is sprawling and unique, from the pitch black personal-destructive recesses of the deep south to the revolutionary conflagrations of a small South American dictatorship.
Ostensibly the story is Charlotte's, a complexly-shaded women adrift in her life until she washes up in Boca Grande, but equally fascinating, and obsessively observed, is our narrator, Grace, an anthropologist and semi-disinterested political manipulator who takes it upon herself to relate the events of the novel, despite or because her own not so incidental involvement in them.
Avrebbe potuto farlo.Avrebbe dovuto farlo per tutta la vita.Tutto quello che so ora è che quando penso a Charlotte Douglas che cammina nel caldo vento notturno in direzione delle luci di Capilla del Mar, sono sempre meno certa che questa sia stata una storia di illusioni.A meno che le illusioni non fossero le mie.[…] Non sono stata la testimone che avrei voluto essere.
Needless to say, I am not having this shit, and I encourage anyone who’s read the two later memoirs and nothing else to get up on their early Didion.But it’s the first and second periods I want to focus on here, since [i]A Book of Common Prayer[/i] strikes me as a sort of transition between them, and like many “transitional” works of art, it’s compelling but not always smooth.
You can probably tell I’m still hedging about whether arranging a writer’s career into an arc is reductive, yet I see some of the concerns of both [i]Play It As It Lays[/i] and [i]Democracy[/i] (her strongest novel out of the three I’ve read) here.
Neither is a real, named place (although Bel Canto seems to be based on something that happened in a South American country sometime during the 1990s, IIRC), but there's an evocation, especially in this book, of an equatorial country and its heat and poverty and corruption that makes me feel like I've been there, even though I'm as removed geographically from anyplace like that as I am from that period of time.Anyway, glad I finally got to read it.
Il romanzo prende una piega melodrammatica quando si concentra sulla protagonista Charlotte Douglas e sulle sue dolorose vicissitudini, spostandosi avanti e indietro nel tempo tra Stati Uniti e America del Sud. Didion esplicita una stretta connessione tra Charlotte e la voce narrante Grace.
Ma Charlotte è solo apparentemente alienata dalla realtà, mentre Grace, come Charlotte, è capace di ignorare deliberatamente l’evidenza dei fatti.
Didion sembra dire che il nostro rapporto con la realtà e con la Storia è sempre soggettivo, e che ciascun individuo sceglie cosa ricordare e come ricordarlo: la vita è qualcosa che continuiamo a raccontarci, passato, presente e futuro; sappiamo solo quello che vogliamo sapere.
I can't remember the last time I was as grateful for a book to finally end. I think the author gave us a hint on page 164: "Maybe there is no motive role in this narrative." I really, really didn't enjoy the assumptive characters or their privileged drama. I wouldn't spend ten minutes in the company of anyone in this book in real life, so I'm not sure why I did spend so much time reading about them.
First of all, despite the title, this is not a Christian book about praying and shit like that. It’s a novel about human dislocation and the intractability of delusion, set against the backdrop of Central American revolution. Didion is best known for her nonfiction, but I proselytize for her novels every chance I get.
Lo stile.Lo stile litanico, sincopato, minimale.Lo stile litanico e sincopato all'inizio mi ha intrigato, ma alla fine mi ha abbastanza irritato.E' una storia in cui tutti i personaggi si parlano poco o nulla, sicuramente non si capiscono tra loro e le cose se le mandano a dire.Tre stelle per il contesto, ma molto frammentario.Ecco.Insomma.Dalla lettura non si ricava molto.Almeno io.E di Yates, non ho trovato nulla.
The drawback to A Book of Common Prayer is that Joan Didion's characters and narrator are lofty and bourgeoisie, but are also cold and hard to identify with.
Charlotte Douglas is not as tormented nor driven as The Swede, and Marin never develops into a character with any substance, let alone the brilliance, like Merry's.Maybe I am daft, but I did not feel like Boca Grande was a real place either.
Common Prayer is best when Didion uses repetition to reinforce solid observations about Douglas's tragic life, but overall it is too undeveloped and unsatisfying a read.

I read this book a long time ago. I remember liking it much more then than I did now. I loved The Year of magical thinking, I loved Blue Nights and South and West. But here, in this early fictional work, her voice sounds too contrived, her writing seems forced, too removed. The repetitions. The short sentences. I felt an affectation that irked me. So three stars because i can't deny it, Didion is a masterful writer nevertheless.
Dapprima la signora bionda viene vista come un'oca sexy e molto sciroccata la cui conversazione è difficile da seguire, bellissima la prima apparizione al cocktail party a bordo piscina: poi acquista spessore e si rivela personaggio problematico che cerca di rimuovere la propria vita precedente e qualunque contrarietà dedicandosi con acribia protestante a missioni encomiabili, o anche futili (di nuovo every day Nirvana).
Didion semina varie idee fastidiose, quali che i caratteri del Sud (anche degli USA) credono di poter andare avanti a colpi di fascino personale e i caratteri WASP per merito personale, spero che non lo creda anche lei; e alcune scemenze pseudoscientifiche quali la molecola della paura del buio.
If _Play It as It Lays_ was Didion doing Chandler, this is her version of a Graham Greene novel, whereby a sophisticated viewer in a small former colony (in this case the Latin American Boca Grande) learns that the naivete of a stranger is the proper way to encounter the world.Here, the sophisticate is the American-born wife of a former dictator of Boca Grande, and the innocent abroad is Charlotte, mother of a girl gone radical terrorist in the sixties, who has washed up in Boca Grande for, well, a novel's worth of reasons-- to reconnect with her daughter (indirectly), to expiate for her sins and those of her daughter (perhaps), to get away from both of the above strains.I didn't love this one the way I did _Play it as it lays_, though.
The Joan Didion Project is essays, novels, rewatching the movies she co-wrote with her late-husband.
But the true gem, three and a half books and two movies in, is “A Book of Common Prayer,” a novel from the late 1970s set in a small, gang-controlled town in Central America and an American who married into the political fray, but has since been widowed.
No one is sure what she’s doing in Boca Grande, why she spends every day at the airport, and why she’s been flagged for special treatment by the government.Grace tells her story from a place in the future.
This book was a tale of a life story told by someone else who didn't actually know the person.
The story opens up with the some confessions and then in few parts we come to know the story as per the knowledge of the narrator.
Very nice tale and a funny thing, I took a refuge from "The Vampire's Diary" series to read this book and lo and behold there's a character called Elena in this book too, though admittedly not a huge part just few mentions in passing.This was set in a fictional central American country and was nice, you should also give it a chance and see if you like it, I will go and read something else and then Keep on Reading.
The first time I read this, the Latin American scenes stayed with me, but this time I was knocked ou
This is one of my favorite books of all time. Joan Didion has an incredible way of crafting flawed yet accessible people, with incredibly beautiful and resonant language that is not overly complicated. She uses the words she needs to give you the ideas she has. I wish I still had the copy I read in college, marked with highlights and comments written on almost every page. I devoured this book, I didn't just read it, and many of her images and turns of phrase have lasted with me to this day.
This was originally published on The Scrying Orb.Joan Didion is one of my favorite authors and working through her fiction, I can basically bullet-point what a book will contain: - A detached heroine, probably in her thirties.
- A stomach churning body horror scene, probably relating to the above bullet point, involving a botched abortion or miscarriage or horrifying birth.
In A Book of Common Prayer, a bomb goes off outside a birth control clinic and a doctor jumps in fright while inserting an IUD and punctures his patient’s uterus.
But instead of a Mad Men perspective of "those were the days, and they were fun if they were awful" we get a bit more visceral attitude of "people take advantage of our desires and we try to rationalize our concessions but usually end up confused and distraught if not dead." Didion suggests a plot that occurs behind the scenes, but ultimately this plot lies in the desire of the narrator to find meaning in the story and make sense of it all.
Strasser-Mendana wants access to deeper meanings and motivations yet realizes her shortcomings in this regard, which because the book is set in a colonial milieu drives home the point that those in the story with greater access to these things further cross the observer-observed boundary.
Right now with a little imagination we can see what he’s trying to draw, that circle maybe the head, flowing line for hair, the outline of body, arm, feet.
Our artist might decide to start from the face; he has a very clear image in his mind so he works straight away in detail.
She told us right at the beginning what happened to Charlotte, then she began telling us the “extenuating circumstances, weather, cracked sidewalk and paregorina.” She jumped around the timeline but she always anchors it to the timeframe that we already know.
This book tells the story of a dysfunctional bourgeois family, with the seventies era Berkeley dropout daughter going terrorist, her globetrotting mom searching for "something," her self-righteous and bombastic dad, and a seemingly kind step-dad who is professionally a not-so-kind internationally-connected power lawyer.
Didion is a talented writer, and while the style might seem less innovative, and at times repetitive, to certain contemporary eyes and ears, this book was cleverly arranged to deliver a story in a tangled and nonlinear way.
I would not tell you to run out and read this book, but it's a pretty good read.
Easily the most depressing thing I've read in years (with the possible exception of the collected stories of Amy Hempel, which, as the NYT review says, should not be read all in one go).
Woman lives life barely connected to it, dissembles, is used, lives life of quiet desperation, eventually ends up in soul-crushing tropics to die.
I CAN'T FINISH IT.
Sorry, Charlotte, I just can't bring myself to see what (or rather, how) happens to you in the end.Well-written -- it's not that I didn't like the prose.
But shit, I can't finish.If this is typical Didion I'm not going to read any more of her.
