https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18404173-the-romanov-sisters
Well that was damn tragic and beyond sad 😕
The Romanov Sisters: The Lost Lives of the Daughters of Nicholas and Alexandria by Helen Rappaport is a comprehensive look at the last royal family of Russia.
Growing up much of the late czarist history I read came from Massie’s Nicholas and Alexandria which by no means was lacking at the time.
Secondly, although there is a great information on the Romanov sisters, the book primarily focuses on the entire family and family life.
I have read many history books over the years and this one did such an excellent job of bringing the daughters to life.
Learned a lot.
And I was surprised at the amount of impact was both on the world and on them as a family.The author does a good job at keeping things at just the right level -- not too complex, not too simple.
And their deaths are handled with the right level of respect.You really learn a lot about their marriage, the ways the girls were raised, and what people's thoughts on love were in the early 20th century.
here's the scoop: I read A LOT.
I write A LOT.
And now I blog A LOT.
Many thanks to their original creators.
"We too have to understand through it all, that God is greater than everything, and that he wants to draw us, through our sufferings, closer to Him. But my country, my God, how I love it with all the power of my being, and her sufferings give me actual physical pain." –Alexandra Romonova I cannot stress enough what a wonderful book this was! For the duration of my reading, I was transported back in time through Russia, Finland and Britain at the turn of the century. Revolution, death and hard t
For the duration of my reading, I was transported back in time through Russia, Finland and Britain at the turn of the century.
Revolution, death and hard times were ahead for Russia and its people after 1918.
Instead, by means of surviving diaries and letters from the family, servants and friends, Rappaport paints how the quiet family lived, frustrations the girls had about being sheltered from the outside world, and even the first blooms of love.
What a wonderful read; a new all-time favorite!
Helen Rappaport paints a compelling portrait of Tatiana, Olga, Maria and Anastasia the four daughters of Nicholas and Alexandra in this well written account of the girls and their lives at court.I have read a great deal of books on the subject of Russia and the Romanov family and wasn't particularly sure what new information I would gain from this book.
The personality of Alexandra is extremely well analysed in this book and I think by doing so we getting a better understanding of events within the family.For readers interested in the Romanov Family this is a great book, extremely well written and researched.
And the day I turned seventeen, I vividly remember feeling crushed because Anastasia was never going to be older than me now.In The Romanov Sisters, Helen Rappaport effortlessly glides through the last Russian imperial family’s history without making it seem like a tedious read which I for one was immensely grateful for.
She was an ardent reader, prone to regular crushes and temperamental like me.]Three more times, the Tsarina got pregnant and every time having birthed a girl child had to face the escalating resentment of a nation growing anxious for a male heir.
While both Nicholas and Alexandra tended to treat their girls as younger than their age, we read of how they began to receive marriage proposals and to develop crushes on young officers that accompanied the family or on those soldiers they treated during the first world war.
Although Alexandra insisted her girls were too young and inexperienced to be allowed into the St Petersburg society she objected to, she allowed them often inappropriate contact with officers in the gilded cage she confined them in – and against which they obviously longed to leave, although they rarely voiced that wish, as they were generally obedient and loving daughters.This book follows their life – from the glittering palaces of Imperial Russia, through rare, but much loved trips abroad, and on to the war and revolution.
I have no internet so bare with me. This book filled in more of the gaps about the Romanovs lives. Some questions were nicely answered with diary accounts, letters, and other observations. It was informative, and laid out perfectly, starting with some background information about Alix.. Some moments were boring, but it is a lot of information. At the end I feel bad for the Romanovs. . This shouldn't of happened. The last chapter sadden me.
Me parece un libro completísimo sobre la vida de las cuatro hermanas Romanov, hijas del último zar de Rúsia (Nicolás II).
Contiene muchos fragmentos de sus cartas y diarios, además de notas a pie de página y fotografías.Me ha permitido conocer la infancia claustrofóbica y controlada al milímetro de estas cuatro jóvenes, su poca socialización viviendo sin apenas interactuar con jóvenes de su edad, su implicación durante la Primera Guerra Mundial,..
No se centra demasiado en la política del momento sinó puramente en la vida familiar que llevaba la família Romanov, padres e hijos.El problema llega cuando llegas al final del libro.
I just couldn't put it down and I would have finished it quicker if my job hadn't interfered.The great quotes from the diaries and letters the Romanovs wrote (some of which had never been published before) helped to bring this outstanding family back to life.
This book definitely helped to clear their picture and mark them as personalities in history.
It definitely helped me to understand more about the Romanovs, clarifying their actions and relationships.
Their tragic end was described in just a few sentences though and it made an unfinished story for me with a too quick ending (Rappaport wrote another book about their last days).
3.5 Although much in this book was known to me previously, I did like the way this was presented.
It focused more on the family, their daily schedules, the people they were in contact with and their individual personalities.
I did feel that I received a better understanding of the girls, their individual personalities, their thoughts and hopes for the future.
They were often thought to be socially awkward, abroad and by their own people.
This book was extensively researched and I very much like that the book did not end of the murder of the Czar and his family but continued on to tell the fate of many of those who had supported the family.
I have always had an interest in this family and their and place in history and I thought this book painted a vivid picture for me.
I recommend every anti-vaxer read this book, I guarantee you’ll change your mind.
Sure, that stuff would kill me now, but living without the stuff back in the day was worse than death right before the death happened.Because the five kids were so ill with measles, and other nasty things, they couldn’t travel and this prevented the Romanovs from a timely escape to England.
Measles killed them; well, the guns helped.I did enjoy this book quite a bit.
But seriously, vaccinate your kids.
This poignant and haunting look at the Romanov daughters reminds us of why, so many years later, we continue to be fascinated by their beauty, their fragile world, and their untimely deaths.
Focusing on Olga, Tatiana, Marie and Anastasia, Ms Rappaport pulls back the veil on their privileged but often cold upbringing; their difficult yet adoring relationship with the neurotic Tsarina, Alexandra; and the family's fervent focus on the only son, Alexis, whose hemophiliac disorder caused so much pain and turmoil.
In time, they might have achieved great feats that, sadly, we shall never know.Highly recommended for anyone interested in Russian history and the tumultuous, ultimately tragic, fate of the last Tsar and his family.
Some books demand that you be religious to understand how the characters think and behave.
It is by no means my first book on the last Russian czar and his family.
Having read this book, I feel I know them.
You cannot read this book without being horrified.
You cannot read this book without coming to understand the importance of faith and spiritual belief and love of family and country to Nicholas, Alexandra and their children.
It works because her emotions reflect the author's lines very well.You cannot read just one book about the last Romanovs.
I don't mean to be cynical, but the jacket description and cover art are not indicative of the material within and I personally found the book much less frustrating when I put aside my interest in the individual character of Nicholas' daughters and considered the book as I would a general biography of the family.
Don't worry, Rappaport backtracks to July 1862, recreating Alice's marriage and tragic death before digging into the adolescence and romantic affairs of her youngest daughter.
The jacket led me to expect a detailed and insightful portrait of Nicholas' daughters, but the book is much less about them than it is the fall of Tsarist imperialism and the family crushed in its wake.
From the title and the book description one would think this would deal mostly with the Romanov sisters.
The material was very well researched and the writing is engaging enough, but this wasn't the book I feel I was promised.
If you're just starting to gain interest in the late Romanovs, this would be a good book to start with.
My rating for the book as a whole: 4 StarsMy rating for the book that was described: 2 StarsI don't think I'd be willing to pick up anything by this author again.
I don't know that I'd trust the book described to be the actual book I'd received.
1855.The story is enriched with plenty of archived letters and photographs (not available in this ARC copy) which give us the true feelings of this famous Royal family during their entire life.It should be mentioned the famous historical and controversial character, Rasputin, who played an important role in the Romanov family, specially in Alexey's anytime his health was worsen.Alexandra Feodorovna with her children, Rasputin and a governess in 1908The author have previously published another book The Last Days of the Romanovs: Tragedy at Ekaterinburg which counts down to the last, tense hours of the family’s lives.I really liked this book since the author gives us important insights of the Romanov's without making use of any artificial and romantically hints of the whole story.
It's absolutely heartbreaking to read about these girls, so different from one another, kind, naive, and full of life, knowing all along how all of this ended.
I actually ended up tearing up during certain parts, which doesn't happen too often to me when I read.The only negative I have, which isn't reflected in my rating because I felt like it would be unfair to the book itself, has to do with the narrator of the audiobook.
I ended up purchasing a physical copy and I'm so happy to have it!P.S. OK, I have one more nitpick: there aren't nearly enough photos in the book.
En este libro Helen Rappaport saca de la leyenda a estas cuatro jóvenes para mostrarnos lo que en realidad eran: simplemente unas muchachas como muchas en esta vida.Como todo tiene un inicio, la novela empieza con un breve repaso sobre los antecedentes familiares de los últimos zares, donde la joven princesa Alejandra, quien para mi sorpresa era nada menos que la nieta de la Reina Victoria, detalle que no conocía, es criada tanto por su padre como por su abuela luego de perder a su madre.
Lovely, intelligent, and good humored, sisters Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia were seen as a unit, even referring to themselves as OTMA, but they come alive as individuals in the chapters of this book, with (roughly speaking) Olga the most emotional, Tatiana the most responsible, Maria the best natured, and Anastasia the most spirited.
They played silly child-like games far into adolescence, but during WWI spent their days tending to badly injured and disfigured soldiers, especially Tatiana who worked as a surgery nurse.Too thorough and detailed to read like a novel, The Romanov Sisters is still moving and a hard book to put down, capturing some fascinating bits of history and rescuing Olga, Tatiana, Maria, and Anastasia from history’s shadows.
Helen Rappaport is an expert in the violent, disturbing history of Russia and has already studied the close family's final days (resulting in a bloody ending in a basement in Yekaterinburg) before so if anyone is to tackle Olga, Tatiana, Maria and Anastasia's unfortunately short lives, it's her.
Yes, I'm not eloquent enough to put into words how excellent this is but you can just trust me, right?[image error]Olga (November 15th 1895 - 17th July 1918)[image error]Tatiana (10th June (11th after 1900) 1897 – 17 July 1918)[image error]Maria June 26 (27th after 1900) [O.S. June 14] 1899 – July 17, 1918)[image error]Anastasia (June 18 [O.S. June 5] 1901 – July 17, 1918)[image error]R.I.PThe Romanovs, 1911
But, there just wasn't much there about the daughters.
They come off like average girls -- which is probably the author's point -- a bit self-involved, forming love interests out of boredom, a bit spoiled, but friendly and nice.
It's all very nice.
For a book allegedly about looking at the lives of the Romanov daughters, we don't get much insight, despite the quoting from primary sources.I was surprised to find out that cockroaches can survive in Siberia, though.
Compelling, engrossing, fast paced but doesn't leave out the details. A solid, comprehensive look at the Romanov sisters from birth until death--and it will probably all surprise you, including what could have been done to change their awful fates. They were goofy, kind, sometimes bawdy, and devoted to one another and their parents. Highly recc. Highly. I super loved this book. .
A wonderfully engaging novel about the Romanov girls and the tragedy of their lives. It makes one especially glad that my wish of being a princess never came true. It was a book that even though you knew the ending, you hoped in your head that you could have changed it.
This carefully researched, detailed, LONG and agonizingly linear recounting of the day-to-day lives of the Romanov family lacks much in the way of historical context or psychological depth. It reads like a fawning celebrity profile in "Tiger Beat" magazine - with hundreds of footnotes.
This is an absorbing biography and history of the four sisters and the last Russian royal family.
Rappaport starts by describing the one of their last residences before delving back into the family history of the sisters which stretched across the royal houses of Europe.
The girls’ very different and complex personalities are highlighted but Rappaport doesn’t gloss over the negative aspects and the reader is presented with fair and well-rounded descriptions of the four sisters.
I think it’s very easy to write off the family as completely spoiled and uncaring but the accounts of the sisters’ efforts during the First World War tell a different story showing them as helpful, caring and sympathetic.
The basic problem is not with the writing, which is good, nor with the odd nugget of information (Grand Duke Dmitri's letter to Nicholas II is a very odd nugget indeed), but with the subject matter itself.
To put it bluntly, the girls just aren't interesting enough in and of themselves to sustain a biography, and so Rappaport goes into some detail about Alexei (fair enough) and Nicholas and Alexandra --- but only insofar as their parents were understood by the girls.
For those with a lot of interest in the subject matter.
This is a painstakingly researched book about not only the four Romanov grand duchesses but the other family members, as well.
I have always been fascinated by the last tsar and his family.
Through her detailed research, Helen Rappaport has given us a much greater understanding, of this family's love and devotion to one another, to their many friends and of the true natures of the grand duchesses.
Rappaport has done them the honor of giving it back.Thank you to the publisher and NetGalley for the privilege of reading this fine book.
Non-fiction can often appear a bit dry but the author manages to interweave facts, quotes from diaries and letters, and her own take on some events in a way that it's rarely boring.However: I expected a book about the four Romanov-sisters and I don't really feel I got that.
Anastasia did get some more depth (still not a lot) but I never felt that I learned very much about Maria.Perhaps you could argue that Maria seemed to be a quieter person in general and combined with her early death that makes it hard to write much about her so perhaps I'm simply complaining on a very high level.The decision not to write much about the final days of the Romanovs was also, well, a bit odd.
(view spoiler)[Bettie's Books (hide spoiler)]
