https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1423793.Peace_with_God
Billy Graham is a master, dare one say, "Prophet," in sharing the Word of God. This book is first published in 1953 and updated only to address the current times but not to change the ancient message left for humanity.
Graham elaborates why peace with God is vital for salvation on the Day of Judgment.
Peace with God is the voice God uses through his humble servant, Dr. Billy Graham, to remind the world that He, Elohim, Abba, I Am is the only power in all existence and His will must be done through Christ Jesus to achieve eternal peace, joy, and bliss in heaven.
I think this is a masterpiece. I read this book as new Christian and I think I will continue reading and referring to this book again and again.This is one of the most simply worded books I have ever read. It is profound and at the same time practical. It makes you think and explains many tough questions easily.
Initially, I wanted to read this because I have been trying to expand my knowledge of Christianity and increase my understanding of God and to stay involved with the teachings of Christ.
Granted, it may be the greatest message there is, but I feel like I've already read this book.
It's also good to be reminded about all that Christ has done for us, the ultimate price he paid.I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the basic doctrine of Christianity (there is a more Protestant message here, but the main theme is the same for all sects).
I think Billy was an amazing follower of Christ.
I enjoyed much of this book, but I have a hard time with statements that begin with "God is 'trying'..." etc.I don't believe that God is shocked or surprised by anything ever, since He is omniscient.
It happens in His time and not a second before.
Billy is awesome, but I think he and I would have agreed to disagree on a few of the things that he said in this book.
We AGREE on way more than we disagree though.I'll see ya soon, Billy!
What an amazing book. I picked this up randomly at a yard sale and cracked it open one night not knowing if I would find anything in it interesting or useful. While this book is written for folks who are either on the fence about Christianity or just beginning their journey, I found it packed with insights that got me thinking about things I never had before. Mr. Graham really does have a talent to explain the basics of the bible in common terms.
Worth reading! Worth sharing. I've taken a lot of notes with this one, too. We're never ever ever beyond growing and learning more about how to live out our faith in truth and peace. Especially from one of our greatest elders!
My first taste of systematic theology! I was in my teens when I devoured every word of it. It laid the foundation for my understanding of Christianity.
Gripping, Comforting & Powerful! This Book Changed Me!! I Truly Loved It!
Excellent book. Similar in topic to Mere Christianity. Much different writing style and more comprehensive.
Alot of so-called "Christian" books can be hard to follow, but that's not the case with this one.
The saving of your soul is serious business.
I have always considered myself to be a Christian but I didn't realize how far off the mark I was until reading this book.
This book has inspired me to repent and begin anew in my commitment to Christ and I believe it can inspire you too.
Do you care about saving yourself and/or others?
Are you doubtful about the message of Jesus Christ?
Whatever your motives are, please give this book a chance.
"But though our heads are crammed with knowledge, our hearts are empty."Billy Graham, in this book from the 50's, gives an impassioned plea on behalf of Christian faith. I'm not that familiar with Graham's work, but my impression is that this book mirrors his Crusades and speeches throughout his career. His message was direct and unambiguous. For people interested in the Christian life, Graham has much to say to you. While this book is grounded directly in the Bible, I prefer other writers.See my other reviews here!
An outstanding description of the state of man without God and what man needs to do to get right with God. This book is exceptionally thorough on all aspects of modern and now post modern life. This is meant for non-believers to learn about God and for believers to know more about God and to answer questions from non-believers. Written in 1953 and revised in 1984 it still resonates in 2018.
Beautiful road map to heaven and Peace with GodThis is the 1st book I've read by Billy Graham and won't be my last. I have to admit I never paid a lot of attention to Him when he was alive. This book has a good map for everyone to follow, you won't need a GPS, you need to read this book and change your life before it's too late.
Phenomenal. Whether you are a brand new Christian, or someone who’s been a Christian for a long time, this book is for all. Originally written in the 1950s and later revised in the 1980s, it’s truth still rings true. Still current and relevant now in 2018. Everyone needs to read this book!
Required ReadingThis book (apparently Rev. Graham's first) should be required reading for EVERY Christian. Writing for the new believer, this marvelous book answers questions even the seasoned Christian might not think to ask.
I would recommend this book for anyone who wants to learn more about Billy Graham. I enjoyed this book very much. I think most people would enjoy it.
Loved itA wonderful book with some great insight on what it looks like to have peace with God. Highly recommended by me.
I would really like to read this
Paz com Deus, tem sido um excelente sermão que nos aponta a loucura da ansiedade humana e o caminho em Cristo para o céu.
An excellent comprehensive work on how we can peace with God, peace in our lives, and peace in the future through Jesus Christ. Many good quotes and illustrations, along with Bible references.
Life ChangingThis book was the answer to my prayers! My life is so much better for reading and understanding what I must do to get into the kingdom of heaven!!
A very good book for non-believers and new Christians! There are a lot of good points for any Christian to take away. Billy Graham makes the message clear and doesn't try to sugar coat it.
Sometimes life can get hectic and it may seem too stressful and filled with conflicts and things that bring you down but there is a peace that can comfort you and Billy Graham does such a good job with providing steps to take in order to grow closer to God and receive that peace.
Billy Graham does such a good job at explaining the basics of God's word and His promise and how to have a meaningful relationship with Him. It's such a good starting point if you want to learn more about God and His word.
Accepting Jesus Christ as Saviour and Lord will bring reconciliation with God and forgiveness of sins that are standing as a barricade between you and God.If you want to accept Christ now, all that is required is that you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved and have peace with God. You can say the following prayer that can also be found in back of this book:"O God, I am a sinner; I am sorry for my sin; I am willing to turn from my sin.
Graham is a back-to-the-basics kind of guy and always has been.
We tend to overcomplicate Christian living, especially with legalism that should have no place in our lives.
Denominationalism is largely responsible for this, especially with uber-political institutions like the Southern Baptist Convention and the Assemblies of God. Graham puts aside politicizing and instead gets to the heart of Christian living.
His discussion of spiritual warfare is especially insightful and always relevant for the modern Christian, no matter what era.
Read this one to revisit your foundations and tidy up your heart a bit.
I think I might have a newer version of this book but I'm not entirely sure.
Mine is a blue book from the Billy Graham Library Section that my Mother got years ago in the mail from BGEA that she just happened to keep for me to read when I got older to understand.
I couldn't be more thankful for that.
I have really enjoyed reading all of the Billy Graham books I've read so far.
I haven't found a "Bad" one yet.
If you want peace with your Heavenly Father And to learn more about him.
This one is the one to read.I highly recommend it.
Billy Graham writes like he speaks - compelling, concise, and down-to-earth. This was originally written in 1953, but his message is as relevant today as it was then. Graham summarizes the Bible's account of the truths about God, man, sin, Christ, and faith by tying in the principles of the Scriptures with current events and the ever-present state of men's hearts. Put this in the hands of your friends who have dismissed the faith, if you can.
Finding peace with God is one of the great pearls of life. Billy Graham brought out many good points that leads a person to a life with Christ. He brought out many scripture verses that supports his theories. It is a great book for the person who is seeking the peace that only a Christ centered life can afford. It is also a great book for a seasoned Christian. It should be on every Christian's reading list.
this is a great book by a great author. it is one of those inspired writings that will last forever for its significant sake. i enjoyed reading this book especially the part that talked about What Is God Like?. The combination of simplicity, honesty and religious nature of the book makes it a must read for all who care to read any good book at all.
This was a straight forward read and provides a foundation with which to understand Christianity. It flows as a process of steps and concepts from beginning to end. It was written as if the author was talking to the reader in person. I would recommend it for anyone interested in Christianity or feeling uncertain about religion in general. The version I read was published in 1953.
