https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/173666.Radical_Acceptance
Brach integrates some scientific theory as well as thoughts about medication in her book to enhance its holistic nature.I have struggled with accepting the pain in my life.
But through radical acceptance, general mindfulness, and Tara Brach's shining example of vulnerability, I know that it is never too late to apply love and tenderness to myself, so I can reclaim my confidence and thrive.
I would recommend Radical Acceptance to anyone interested in learning to affirm their emotions and tolerate their pain, both mental and physical.
As, to whatever degree it is, the book has some role as a discussion and instructional guide for practitioner/therapists interested in integrating meditative practices and Buddhist spirituality into their work it would have been extremely helpful, and in my mind helped her cause of this as a serious discussion, if she had spent some focused time and energy on the challenges of doing so, some cases that didn’t go so well, places where the two traditions can seem (and maybe or maybe not be) contradictory or incompatible.
Tara is sort of like the anti-Dr. Phil.
Instead of screaming at you about what an idiot you are, Tara puts a comforting arm around you, like an old friend, and using a combination of psychological techniques and a gentle form of Theravada Buddhism, she shows us how we can stop living with doubt, regret, and fear and lead a happy, fulfilled life, with a clarity of mind that we can then use to reach out to others who are mired in the same delusions we once were.
Different personalities need different approaches.
Tara fills an important need for those who appreciate a gentler approach to getting themselves whipped into psychic shape.
Working & practicing my way through this book very slowly over four months' time has been a tremendous gift.
Tara Brach begins by teaching a new way of approaching emotionally intolerable situations - being overwhelmed and practically nonfunctional because of physical manifestations of anxiety, fear, desire, melancholy, depression, anger, embarrassment, as well as by a sense of unworthiness, guilt or shame.
The practice begins centered in the self and slowly shifts over time to an outward focused, selfless practice of awareness and compassion.
And - as the practice develops, lo and behold it becomes possible to shift from focus on oneself to focus on others, lovingkindness for others.
And I don't usually read hippy dippy Buddhist stuff either, because I get too scoffy.
And parts of the book (like the closing chapter on discovering our true essence and realizing we are nothing but awareness.....
:) I'm also on a somewhat hippy-dippy "journey" in general to reshape/revitalize my spirituality which I thought had been permanently killed and buried, and which I'm really enjoying being able to connect with in new ways.
And reading about different spiritual experiences people have with these meditation techniques, and feeling the familiarity of it all from when I used to pray on my knees to Jesus, really reawakened a desire to use that part of myself.
I think the perceptions of this book are directly related to the suffering and innate self hatred that the reader possesses.
When the concept of lovingkindness is absolutely foreign to you then this book can save your life.
That is not to imply that this book is a cure all for deep, debilitating issues but it's a really excellent introduction to thought processes and patterns that we each are so lacking -- particularly those most dramatically affected by mental disorders or severe depression / anxiety / self-hatred.
There are better books on...Buddhist monastic life, lay life, activism, spirituality, sexuality, relation to psychotherapy, the tradition's kooks and heroes and Americanization.
But I don't think there's a better-voiced introductory book on the practical value of cultivating a Buddhist frame of mind in relation to suffering and what she calls "the trances" of everyday life.
She retells and interprets stories from the tradition, as well as anecdotes from contemporary American life, all to the end of introducing the outlines of a kind of consciousness she calls "Radical Acceptance." There is a two star review by Robert who calls the book "pretty lightweight." I think I can see where he's coming from, although the way that I'd put it is that this book is highly syncretic.
Kripalu Yoga is primarily a practice of compassion, and this book is it's perfect companion.
The foundation of all yoga practice is acceptance, and it begins with ourselves.
Recognizing how we become trapped by these feelings is the first step in reconnecting with who we really are: perfect beings.
Through personal stories, case histories and guided meditations, Ms Brach brings her teachings alive, showing her readers how to transcend their day-to-day existence to arrive at a sense of clearsightedness and acceptance of who they are in every moment of their lives.

I've only read the previous edition, but I am here to tell you that Brach brings a message that is welcome tonic to the soul of anyone who has ever felt inadequate or unworthy for any reason.
Usually these reasons have to do with culturally defined standards and ideals that no person can ever live up to fully.
Brach skillfully weaves these influences together with psychological and Christianity-based explanations of how we live our lives in the 'trance of unworthiness,' and how we can move beyond it.
Book offers guided meditations at the end of each chapter to help the reader work on the principles and living practices that chapter discusses.
It is basically talking about the same subjects, but Tara Brach brings a humanity to her approach that is sadly missing in Power of Now. She has been persuing a spiritual path for many years and speaks with knowledge and compasison.
Yet, she admits that when she is continuously approached by a difficult student or her son misses the bus and has to be rushed to school, she sometimes gets caught up in the anxieties and difficulties of just living life.
Most of us have to continue to deal with life, regardless of what spiritual path we are on.
I tried to read this a second time and while it does have some nice points, it's nothing new to anyone who has ever read a book (or a dozen!) on mindfulness, Buddhism, etc.Also, I always find it super depressing that people who have meditated for decades, and lead workshops and write entire books on the subject still deal daily with anger, depression, anxiety, etc. I know it's just part of being human and I should radically accept it, but man, does it get me down...
If I pause and accept any more radically than I have come to realize I do, my husband will divorce me and my kids will starve.
Once Tara makes them realize that the abuse is not their fault, and they just need to accept the pain, they are magically cured.
Never really having much in the way of self-hate, nor (to the best of my knowledge) ever having been abused by a family member as a child, all of the chapters seemed rather far from my own life.
That said, if you do struggle with self-hatred due to repressed memories of child abuse, well, maybe this is the exact book you need.
I began to read this at a slow pace, thinking that every so often I could refresh my memory and pick up my slack in that department.
I have already been working on acceptance but was curious to see if I could learn anything new reading this.
I wanted to try and remember as much as I could, so I took time reading each word, not skimming over the sentence like I do in some other books.
I think this would be a good read for anyone trying to incorporate awareness in one's life, or as a refresher like it was for me.
This book had plenty of examples which made learning easier.
Full marks for the gist and low marks for the execution. A little too self-helpy and over-written, yet the idea of bringing radical acceptance/compassion to ourselves and others is pretty much the only hope for emotional sanity in this world. But for content, economy, and grace, I'm finding Ezra Bayda's "Being Zen" to be a huge improvement. Let's just say Bayda's book is going on my shelves when I'm done. Brach's book is going to half.com.
I disliked this book enough to stop reading it with 75 pages left to go. No compelling reason to finish it. The meditations were nice, if someone were reading them...but you can't read it and meditate at the same time. I found the book to be very repetitive and somewhat annoying.
I can't help but think that's not right -- and all the books I have read about leadership, emotional development, connecting with people and meditation recommend a higher level of self awareness and just taking a pause before reacting emotionally.Tara Brach has a very excellent writing style -- this book isn't emotionally or intellectually heavy, and there is some repetition but it's all done with very clearly written and engaging examples from cases studies of actual people and mythology.
Rather, the fundamental insight is that if an emotion or thought is happening, there is great freedom to be found in allowing it to happen and feeling it fully, rather than trying to ignore it or push it away -- pushing away painful emotions actually cause us more pain in the long run.This book is essentially a recipe for learning how to do therapy on yourself.
It is a book to read slowly and work through at a pace that you are comfortable with, trying out the exercises and sticking with things even if you feel stuck or it feels difficult.
Feeling compassion for ourselves in no way releases us from responsibility for our actions. Rather, it releases us from the self-hatred that prevents us from responding to our life with clarity and balance.This book hit home on so many issues for me. Kindness and compassion, for others, but also for ourselves.
I picked up this book because it seemed like a more mindful exploration of Self Compassion, and the prologue certainly leads one to believe that this is the case.
But the practices of dzogchen awareness and tonglen compassion were new to me and her descriptions of how these practices have changed the way she relates to her own life have awakened a new passion to explore this world of traditions that I've only scratched the surface of before.I suppose the title give is away- the heart of a Buddha is written right there on the cover.
I now recognize that basic mindfulness in the service of self compassion isn't enough.
Being somewhat familiar with the notion of "radical acceptance", I was curious to check out the book of the same title, probably expecting something that turned out to be a bit different than what this book has offered me so far (I decided to stop at p.48).
It was at that point that I decided that I would not pursue this book further, seeing it is such a long title, and so far with more sermoning and for me, inadequate amount of examples to supplement the sermons.
I went straight to Chapter 7, Opening Our Heart In The Face Of Fear:"We have to face the pain we have been running from.
On page 175, where the author talks about "taking refuge in the Buddha," she talks about when the Buddha faces fear with his full intention, and realizes that he is actually fearless.
She compares this to people who are "devotional by nature who pray to Christ or the Divine Mother; these people take refuge in a being or presence that cares about our suffering." The most beautiful thing I took away from this chapter is the idea of taking "refuge in the Beloved." This is such a comforting thought, reminding me of the great love of God. Although this book has been a bit difficult, and I will probably read it more than once, it is definitely worth the read.
I read it in German, so I don't know how much difference there is to the original.
However, easy read, with lots of essentially helpful aproaches to dealing with problems, hurdles, wounds...Many suggestions to guided meditations.
I felt so true for many occasions in my life, I have worked with the "look at it" approach since I read the book, and it's amazing shift, energy that's been stuck before, or that I used to hold thing out of eyesight, has been set free.
This book is really helping me during my current life transition. Everyone should have a copy of this book whether they think they need it or not. Seriously. Bought a copy for my Mom for Christmas and she says it is fantastic. There were days I felt like a loser for being divorced and unemployed but this book taught me to change that negative thinking and to love and accept myself so I can fully love others and improve my life.
When I first tried to read this book, it did not touch me and I was highly critical of it - even though I did not finish it. I am now coming back to it after many years and I find it is breaking my heart open in many ways. I am recognizing that my resistance has probably been about needing this work very much. This time, I plan to get all the way through!
The first few chapters and last few chapters are excellent, with what felt to me like valuable wisdom and interesting/helpful anecdotes. The middle felt formulaic and unrealistic. But the good outweighs the bad and I'll be keeping this one around to return to its teachings on compassion for self and others.
This book is an excellent guide to using meditation to deal with the emotional challenges in daily life. Many students have reported to me that this book has help them psychologically and emotionally to deal with some issue in their life.
A life-changing book. I'm a devoted Brach fan and am addicted to her podcast dharma talks.
What a great book! Absolutely a must read for everyone wanting to learn about life and happiness. <3
