https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/112322.Saint_Maybe
Reading the back-of-the-book synopsis, I expected Saint Maybe to be a sort of grace-centered retread of 1980's Ordinary People, in which a teenager struggles to come to terms with the death of his older, "better" brother (for which he feels partially responsible) with the help of a compassionate psychiatrist.
As the book begins, he is nearing the end of his high school career.The even keel of the Bedloe's lives is mildly disrupted when Danny decides to marry Lucy, a divorced mother of two (Agatha,7, and Thomas, 3).
I've yet to read an Anne Tyler novel I haven't liked.
Of the 7 I've now read, I think this is up there with  A Spool of Blue Thread as one of my favorites.
I adore her storytelling and characters.
They are so real and well imagined, and sure, you could argue all her novels are a variation on the same thing but she approaches each one just a little bit differently.
Plus they are nice to read, and that's a pleasant change.
I like to imagine all her characters existing in the same Baltimore universe and passing each other on the street.
As has been said before, were there half stars I'd go 4.5 easily here.First, this isn't the typical type book that I usually read or that usually appeals to me.
The thing that bothered me most was the transposition in the church Ian joins of the good works from being a result of a relation to God to some sort of "atoning sacrifice" where forgiveness seems conditional.
But, The teaching set forth in the novel isn't an unusual teaching and I'm sure some reading the book will agree with it.
So as I said...this isn't a book on theology.
Reading Anne Tyler can be a daring experience.
Her insight is scary - and I'm sure I'm not the only reader who feels she is writing about me, my thoughts and my motivations.Saint Maybe is at once both her most depressing yet uplifting novel.
In a moment of intense frustration, a seventeen year old boy makes a mistake – he blurts out an accusation to his brother that taken in a rational light in the best of situations might be properly handled.
The novel chronicles the life and times of the Bedloe family, after unexpected tragedy strikes them in the late sixties in the form of the "accidental" death of one of the sons, Danny.
However, Ian begins to have serious doubts about his sister-in-law's character: he comes to the conclusion that she is sleeping around, her gentlemen friends are keeping her in riches and that his brother is nothing but a fall guy: worse, he is pretty sure that Lucy’s third child, Daphne, is not his brother’s.
This is really an exceptional book. Every time I read a book by Tyler I am surprised by how keen she is at portraying human nature. And what really amazes me is how she can do this without judgment. Her writing is beautiful and so life-affirming. I feel better for having read Saint Maybe.
Reading the first couple of chapters (which make up almost 25% of the book's length), I thought, "this is the darkest Anne Tyler I've ever read." I didn't know in those first chapters who would turn out to be the main character of the novel.
I can truthfully say I was happy with her choice.Tyler's main characters usually have a life problem to resolve.
I also like that there are characters who don't understand or don't approve of the method chosen.
In fact, many of her characters don't even understand why the life problem is such a problem.
How much more life-like can that be?This is not a dysfunctional family.
(АААА, первый раз в жизни гудридз не сохранил мой отзыв!Но ничего, я постараюсь и напишу еще, хоть и покороче.)Итак.I cannot help but give this book 5 stars: it's completely unremarkable but I can't find a single flaw to it.There are people.
There are people they love.
They'd welcome happiness but they are a bit too lazy to actively pursue it.To me, Anne Tyler's books are the definition of life, simple, boring yet fascinating life, with its meek ups and downs and humble achievements, nothing spectacular, nothing too fancy, nothing too scandalous.
Saint Maybe is quintessential Anne Tyler: a quirky, but affectionately-drawn family has to deal with a tragedy that sends ripples through their lives over many years.It is also quintessential in being brilliantly written and compelling from first to last.As i read more Tyler, I keep thinking that perhaps the similarity of some of the scenarios may make her work pall, but to date any doubts have been swept away by her ability to tell a story and draw characters in a humane and convincing way.Saint Maybe centres on Ian Bedloe.
Ian Bedloe tells his brother, Danny, about some suspicions he has about his sister-in-law.
He goes to the Church of the Second Chance to seek forgiveness.
Reverend Emmett advises him to make "concrete, practical reparation"--to drop out of college and make things right by helping his parents raise the three children.The book shows the reality of family life with its high and low points.
Ian says, "I had both my parents helping, and still it wasn't easy.
This was the second book that I have read and enjoyed by this author, and I intend to read more of her books.
This book started out promisingly enough, but I felt as though Tyler lost her grip on her main character, Ian Bedloe. Ian's descent into mindless fundamentalism slides the narrative toward tedium and outright boredom. The character of Ian became for me, not just unlikeable, but boring. Two-thirds of the way through the book, Tyler devotes a considerable number of pages toward describing the house-cleaning that occurs following a supporting character's death. My response: who cares?
This story written by anyone else but Anne Tyler would be garbage. This is a tale of an ordinary family with relatively ordinary problems - yet told in a way that kept my interest as well as a "can't put it down" thriller. Tyler's books contain some of the best character studies I've ever read - her insights into the human psyche never cease to amaze me! I realized when trying to place this book on my virtual Goodreads bookshelves, that Anne Tyler really needs a category of her own. There's nothing else like her.
Nope. This book didn't do it for me. Frankly, I wanted to slap the main character and that's never a good sign. Guilt is a crippling emotion, but after a while Ian seemed less bound by guilt and more bound by his own stupidity. I didn't buy it for a second -- him raising three kids that weren't his and seemingly never coming to the conclusion that he just needed to snap the hell out of it already.
Who knew there's so much that can happen to the ideal, normal-but-quirky family? Apparently Anne Tyler.Masterfully crafted and exquisitely detailed, the splendor is more than just a seemingly simple family changed by a tragic event. The layers of the story are not elaborate, yet rich and breathtaking in its characters and themes. It's perfect if you're looking for something deep. A real piece of beauty here, imho, and a rare read.
Ann Tyler is amazing and yet again she didn't disappoint. I marvel at how she can let you right into that character's head space. You can feel every heartbeat. This book is heartbreaking, comical and closer to real life than we would like to admit. If you've never read Tyler, then this is a good place to start.
I loved Anne Taylor's style of writing. I wanted to read every word. The characters were very interesting. I didn't care for the ending, in fact I almost lost interest in the last couple chapters. The chapters were way too long. What could have been a 5 ended up a 3.
But Ian has had enough when Lucy wears out her welcome begging him to babysit this third supposed baby of hers and Danny's (he suspects all the outings she goes on is to meet a man since he knows the baby isn't his brothers) So when she asks him to babysit and his mother says yes on his behalf on the same night he finally thinks his plans to be with his girlfriend are to come to fruition he makes her promise to be home by a certain time and she doesn't.
Although the majority of the narrative is seen from Ian's point of view, we also get glimpses of his world from the perspective of other characters because, as so often with Anne Tyler, this is a story about a family, its development, maturity and ultimate fragmentation.
We see the effect that individual characters have on each other and how this plays into the evolving dynamic of family life.In places the novel feels rather dated but that's also part of its charm.
These are not larger than life characters.
Then, in the blink of an eye, a single tragic event occurs that will transform their lives forever - particularly that of seventeen-year-old Ian Bedloe, the youngest son, who blames himself for the sudden "accidental" death of his older brother Danny.
Ian enters and soon discovers that forgiveness must be earned, through a bit of sacrifice and a lot of love...I absolutely loved this book - a definite A+++!
This story is filled with characters that the reader can truly care about, living through circumstances that are completely believable.
I suppose that that makes this a 'new' book for me - one that is a definite keeper!
Every time I sit down to write a novel (haha, that sounds really funny) I draw on Anne Tyler and Jane Austen for inspiration, because I love the way they make an ordinary person/family, and the minutiae of their daily lives, so fascinating.
Anyway, Anne Tyler as a writer is totally realistic, eccentric, funny, sad, and unexpected, and she is never more so than in Saint Maybe.
This book is epic, really, following the family through years and years of their lives.
Not everyone loves Anne Tyler, but those people .
He feels anger, guilt, and partial responsibility for what might well be his brother’s suicide.Saint Maybe is a compelling story about different types of loss, and the ramifications of life-changing moments.
The book made me want to keep reading to see what happens to Ian. I wanted him and other characters to make better choices, but knew they couldn’t, or wouldn’t, yet the ending was satisfying.The first few chapters changed point of view, so I’d assumed the central characters would each be given attention, however POV becomes almost exclusively Ian’s after eighty pages.
If you hadn’t known this, you wouldn’t be surprised after reading this book.
He accepts he responsibility and does it ever so well, changing his life and those around him for the better.I love Anne Tyler's books.
This was different than others in that it was not about adult relationships as much as about a single character and his relationship with his parents and the children he helps to raise.
The book moves along slowly, which I liked, because it allows the characters to emerge and change over the years in a way that seems real and natural.
In some ways quirky, but Ian's commitment and the person it helps him to become is very substantial and inspiring.
One of my favorite books of all time.
She has mastered the brushstroke technique, and this is particularly apparent in Saint Maybe.
This tale of redemption focuses on Ian Bedloe, a young man who, in a moment of impatient irritation, a moment that could happen to any of us, unthinkingly causes a terrible tragedy in his family.
Saint Maybe chronicles the rippling aftereffects of this tragedy, and Ian's attempts to redeem himself.
I've read this book so many times that I've gone through two paperback copies and should probably invest in a hardback.
Engrossing, moving, and thoroughly sentimental.
This novel is not perfect in the least, but it is unquestionably something to think about.
Even middle class, white, wholesome families inhabiting the all-American suburbia have depth to them (is primarily what I gained from this story).
Well-fleshed people, not characters, are what comprise this story--something not many other novels that I have read can boast.Side-note: the Middle Eastern foreigners are a static (but absolutely hilarious!) addition.
They are all composed of one mindset, but nonetheless, add an invigorating spice to the story.
This novel, in other words, is as quietly humorous as it is tragic.
Anne Tyler has a way of reaching in and grabbing you by the heart and not letting go. This book, like all her others, deals with humans--real, flawed, lovely, irritating, fabulous humans--and Tyler is such a great writer that the reader forgets the characters are fictional. Tyler's easy attention to detail, the descriptions she drops casually into the book, the easy natural pace of the story, all prove that she is an incredibly adept writer, and her characters always linger in my mind long after I've turned the last page.
I like Anne Tyler, but this book didn't intrigue me. It was about a man who feels guilty because he thinks he has caused his brother's death. He quits college and takes on the responsibility of caring for his brother's baby and two other children, the children of his brother's wife, who also dies. Ian gets involved in a church that believes in second chances. He kind of goes overboard with religion and following the rules of his church. The kids turn out okay in the end. The book is all about how people cause change in other people's lives.
I first read this book because it was on a summer reading list when I was in high school, but I remembered it was one of my favorites that year. A wonderful book about how one mistake can change your life and how life is all about second chances. I love how complex Anne Tyler's characters are and it feels like you grow up with the main character of this novel.I've since re-read this book as an adult and it is still just as powerful.
Another Baltimore set family saga - so typical it's Anne Tyler territory, but nonetheless as usual a great read. I have read a lot of Anne Tyler and this one is particularly strong - definitely one not to miss!
Good Lord! It went on and on and on and nothing ever happened. I wouldn't have finished it if it hadn't been assigned by a professor.
The kind of novel you spend a bit of time with and really get to feel like you know these characters. And I like that, it feels almost old fashioned but Tyler puts you in there and it feels pretty real. I also love that she offers no easy answers, this isn't a novel 'about' anything, but by covering so much ground she gives us a perspective on the passage of time and how maybe everything matters, redemption takes time. I loved Daphne, and felt properly invested in Ian's life.. Also, great title.
