https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11512554-the-land-of-green-ginger
Small characters sometimes tell a story which merits a novel of their own – something I suppose she tried to capture in South Riding, which I would recommend to anyone with to eyes and a heart that they may read it and feel it.The tragedy of this novel, though moving, could get too much at times in the novel as it is compounded by the beautiful, beautiful way that Holtby writes.
I love Winifred Holtby's writing, and I love the covers of the new Virago editions of her work so much that I pounced on a bargain copy of The Land of Green Ginger, even though I already owned the original green VMC edition.But my feelings about this book were a little mixed - much more positive than negative, but definitely mixed.I really loved the heroine, and she carried me through the story.Joanna was born in South Africa, the daughter of Edith, who had dreamed of romance and adventure, and who had married a missionary.
Teddy Leigh, losing his mother and in turn inheriting her debilitating illness of consumption, dreams of a comfortable, fulfilling life.
Persevering, always hoping that things will get better for the farm, for her marriage, for Teddy, for her children, she is an admirable character and convincingly portrays the term, ‘never give up’.
Holtby’s writing (in this novel, at least), realistically portrays the bleak monotony of unremitting labor for little return, the exhaustion of debilitating illness and their stressful effects on marriage and home life.
Here, Joanna lives very much in her head – dreaming of far of places, and the adventures she would have if she were to visit them.
“To be offered such gifts of fortune, to seek Commercial Lane and to find – the day before Christmas Eve and by lamplight too – The Land of Green Ginger, dark, narrow, mysterious road to Heaven, to Fairy Land, to anywhere, anywhere, even to South Africa, which was the goal of all men’s longing, the place where Father lived in a rondavel, the place… Her aunts were moving away.
Joanna is a dreamer but her positive outlook gives her strength to continue with her hard life and find hope and enjoyment. Will be looking out for more Winifred Holtby.
Beautifully written.The story of Joanna married to a consumptive and living the harsh reality of life on a farm in Yorkshire with a young family.She dreams of seeing the world.I loved it!
Joanna Burton is an unusual girl, her mind filled with fantasy and the possibility of an adventurous life, wanting to travel the world and see exciting places.
Born in South Africa, she is sent by her missionary father in the early 1900s to school in Yorkshire, the home of two aunts.
As school is finishing for her, and she is planning her departure, she falls in love with Teddy, a seemingly similarly peculiar young man, about to set off on his own adventure in the war.
On his return, Joanna finds herself married, living on a farm, and about to become a mother.
This is the story of Joanna the daughter of a missionary who orphaned returns to England from South Africa and meets and marries the consumptive Teddy who was invalided out of the First World War. Together they have two children and attempt a precarious and pecunious existence in a small farm in Yorkshire.
Teddy's health is fragile and Joanna though living a vivid inner imaginary life struggles with the demands of motherhood and lack of means.
Joanna herself viewed as an exotic other struggles to find a lifestyle for herself and it is only when tragedy intrudes that her path to the future becomes clear
In 1926 Winifred Holtby visited South Africa where she lectured on behalf of the League of Nations.
Joanna is sent back to Hull to be cared for by her aunts; the story is set in Hull and in Wensleydale - areas Holtby knew and loved.
Joanna is a wonderful character whose vivid imagination sees her through the most difficult times.
The Land of Green Ginger is the name of a street in Hull, a street along which Joanna longs to travel.
Her early work may not rank with South Riding, but I love Winifred Holtby's writing.
Ooh, this one is bleak. I wish I remembered more about Holtby's life so I could know what was going on at the time she wrote this, but I have to imagine that a lot of the descriptions of chronic and terminal illness must have come from personal experience. This is a book that could become bitter and cynical, but somehow never does.
Beautifully written. Anyone who might feel trapped in life should read this for a good old fashioned dose of hope.
Story of a woman who has always wanted to see the world, but is married to a consumptive and must work their farm.
Soon after leaving school to work in a nursing home, she meets and marries Teddy who is a consumptive.
Joanna sacrifices a lot for Teddy and their two children, moving to a remote farm where life is hard and money in short supply.
Joanna dreams of The Land Of Green Ginger, a life of travel and visiting exotic places.
A threat to her relationship with Teddy arrives in the form of a Hungarian transient worker, Paul Szermai and rumours about his closeness to Joanna soon abound.
Winifred Holtby gets to the heart of what it's like to be a woman, making sacrifices and compromises, but never quite giving up her dreams.
Many think the author is writing about the expectations on women when they marry, and it is in part this.
But I think it is more about how difficult it is to live and be accepted in this world if one is different to the 'norm'of the community one lives in.
If one thinks, acts, believes in a way that others cannot understand or see as 'normal', the way people should think, act, believe to be a good person, then one is misunderstood, ostracized and falsely accused.
Humanity is uncomfortable with others that live in any way different to their own and fear what they don't understand or can control/predict.
Each time I read a book by this author I wonder what I will find and am never disappointed because it never elicits what my experience predicts. The plot twists and turns, the characters are complex and yet somehow real. The families,relations, events all torment, delight and challenge. Sometimes she throws in human observations and insights that cause me to reflect that , 'Oh! so it's not just me...' There was a magical intellect at work here and I shall be very sad when I've read all her books! Anderby Wold will probably be next.:)
“Why, [life’s] the best bargain. It’s the best bargain if you really live.”“The awful thing about life is that we are really alone in it.”goddamn, Winifred Holtby doesn’t pull her punches- she gives you all life’s wonderment and its difficulties in perfect, clear-eyed prose. amazing.
you see the female lead is so uninteresting that I could not care less about her fate especially that the style seems almost satirical which is not my cup of tea
The story relates the life of Joanna Burton, who travelled to Yorkshire to be brought up by her Aunts, following her early childhood in the Transvaal and the death of her Mother and Teddy Leigh, who she meets as he's leaving for the trenches of World War I.
PTSD is not a new phenomenom at all.If you have never read any of Winifred Holtby's writing before, please put that right and pick up one of her books and this is as good a place to start as any.
Completely unexpected as I bought this pack of books thinking this 'The Land of Green Ginger' was the Noel Langley version.
I loved Joanna, the naive-but-hard-working main character who kept imagining even when faced with the drudgery of life on a farm and a poorly, ill-tempered, irrational husband.
I loved the description of life in a village, where what people think is true is more important than the truth.
I understood the descriptions of the 'despotism' of farming, a way of life that takes priority over any other concerns.
One of those books you read as quickly as possible whilst also wishing it will never end.
Holtby is a fine writer, but the story was relentlessly sad but probably especially apt for its day.
Joanna is a young woman with a rich imagination who dreams of travel and adventure whose dreams are drastically curtailed when she marries young.
Her husband, she learns after WWI, is consumptive and she ends up taking care of him and their two children.
Joanna also earns a bad reputation in her small community as the rumor mill runs rife with lascivious speculation.
The end if nice, but I grew weary of the rutted tracks of the story itself.I still want to read "South Riding" at some point, though.
4.25I was in the perfect mood/mindset to read this charming book.
My choice of the word charming might be misleading as all is not well with Joanna and Teddy.
Teddy is consumptive and Joanna finds herself the target of a scandal.
Although the novel is riddled with hardship, I was immersed in the world of the English countryside and found myself quite comfortable there.
While this book is a comfortable read, it is in no way fluffy.
I read this in two sittings, I didn't want to leave It's environ, in fact, I liked this so very much that I've already ordered two more of her books.
If you came across a street called "The Land of Green Ginger," wouldn't you stop in your tracks?
Winifred Holtby, my newest Goddess of Literature, took this as the title and starting point for her poignant novel about the erosion of dreams and the plight of a young woman who loses everything when she inadvertently tarnishes her reputation.
In some ways, the book is an echo of her earlier Anderby Wold, but it was a pleasure to see Holtby the novelist re-working material into something stronger and more nuanced.And PS - there is a Land of Green Ginger Street in Hull!
I've wanted to read this book for decades but only just got round to it.
Yorkshire and the time of flux between the first and second world wars always a winning combination in my book.
The title is the name of a street in Hull and sounds so whimsical.
The book is far from whimsical, it is sad sad sad.
Young woman marries in the whirl of war and at the end of hostilities finds herself with two children and a damaged husband.
All of them are casualties of war.
Not everything ends happily but sunlight can be seen poking round edges of the clouds.
Naive Joanna Burton marries Teddy Leigh because he says he's going to give her the world as a golden ball. But Teddy comes back from the war an invalid, and Joanna must do her best take care of her husband and children without help. When a nearby landowner tries to help her out by sending her a boarder, Joanna doesn't notice the talk going around the village in this touching and beautifully written novel.See my complete review here:http://whatmeread.wordpress.com/tag/t...
It grew on me the further I got into the book. At first, it was a tad boring, but then when it switched to Joanna's married life in a small farming community, the nuances were exquisite. How small town villages work, how rumors are spread, perceptions of others, complexities of interpersonal relationships and how one person can be so oblivious to the physical and emotional realities of life.
Interesting, and infuriating, when showing the plight of women in the early 20th century, particularly in rural settings - the prejudice and lack of freedom - but I couldn't be bothered with the fantasy stuff about Sir Walter Raleigh and knights etc. And quoting St Augustine at length seemed a bit of a cop-out. That sounds harsh, but I didn't find much to recommend this novel.
I so much wanted to really like this book but I couldn't. The plot was too contrived and Holtby incorporated a lot of extraneous material about religious and political topics forcing me to omit pages.Her characters were not fully fleshed out and seemed to represent ideas and ideals rather than being just human beings.
Its a "Book of its Time", but I don't mean that as a complement. Contains casual racist and extreme right wing comments and patronises the poor working classes. The main characters may be poor but they are from the right stock and to be admired.
very very good read. my first Holtby novel, long intended to read. Her work is incredibly modern and intelligent. character and place very evocative. will seek out further works.The Land Of Green Ginger is a real tiny street in Hull, my home town.
Shows how hard life could be before the NHS.
