https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/356063.Moravagine
In the beginning was the rhythm and only eventually the rhythm gained corporeality…Blaise Cendrars boldly bases his novel on the concept of Alfred Jarry’s pataphysics.Hysteria… Freud had taken up the problem, had gone into it more amply, more profoundly, had lifted it, extracted it from its purely experimental and clinical domain to make of it a kind of pataphysics of social, religious and artistic pathology…Blaise Cendrars doesn’t write, he literally crochets a morbidly pathological lace of maleficent words.Diseases are.
They may be its main activity.Moravagine is a quintessence of villainy, he is an incarnation of mental pathology, he becomes a metaphor of evil… Evil is indestructible and sinister pataphysics reigns…And what about metaphysics?
If you only read one book this year about a diminutive gimp who enjoys disemboweling women, make it this one.
And there's certainly no book quite like Blaise Cendrars' Moravagine, a tonally irregular, provocative artifact of the 1920s French avant garde.
But don't be scared off by the phrase 'French avant garde' and its omens of obfuscation and aesthetic prickliness.
There's not much cohesion or balance to be found here, and to search for 'a point' to all this is certainly to invite accusations of being a spoilsport, but all in all, Moravagine was enjoyable enough—for a book about a diminutive gimp who enjoys disemboweling women.
Book Circle Reads 17Rating: 3 sickened stars of five The Publisher Says: At once truly appalling and appallingly funny, Blaise Cendrars's Moravagine bears comparison with Naked Lunch—except that it's a lot more entertaining to read.
Released from a hospital for the criminally insane by his starstruck psychiatrist (the narrator of the book), who foresees a companionship in crime that will also be an unprecedented scientific collaboration, Moravagine travels from Moscow to San Antonio to deepest Amazonia, engaged in schemes and scams as, among other things, terrorist, speculator, gold prospector, and pilot.
I enjoyed one thing about reading the book: The author's evident fury and outrage at a world that tacitly accepts the dehumanizing and belittling effects of Modernity without so much as a bleat of resistance.
The novel concludes in the First World War. Periodically during their travels Moravagine rapes and murders women (no vivid descriptions, it is all very matter of fact and part of his condition) and the female characters are treated abominably.
Moravagine is portrayed as the next stage in human evolution and is above normal considerations (I've heard that sort of superiority argument before; Master Race!!).I know it is only a novel and I am not as a rule squeamish about what I read, but there is such a deep level of unpleasantness here, especially towards women that, for me there was just no point ot it.
It's part pulp adventure tale, part embodied manifesto whose main message is that madness and disease are the guiding forces on earth, and all Greatest Dada Novel ever.The early parts are a Rabelaisian misogynistic fever dream across Europe and into Russia where Moravagine, a dadaist writ GIGANTIC, spearheads a revolution.
But then, after fleeing to the United States, the narrative kind of settles down (after the death of the vicious vagina and her foetus), Moravagine becomes more guiding spirit than main character, and we get a proto-magical realist (real deal magical realist) novel coursing through the Americas, meeting larger-than-life swindlers, Blue Indians, and a dapper orangutan, but all bedded in naturalistic detail and local arcana.Then back to Europe for the outbreak of WWI where Moravagine disappears then reappears totally bonkers thinking he's an inhabitant of Mars; a claim not discounted by the narrator.Though I've never read B.
Blaise Cendrars is one of those characters that one can't believe that they actually exist. His novel reads like a demented Sam Fuller film with a script by Luis Bunuel. Well, that how it reads to me!Nevertheless this early 20th Century classic is sort of the door that leads to the madness of that Century. It's a feverish adventure tale that goes beyond reason into a form of madness. And Cendrars was, this one-arm manic, was one of the greats. No doubt about that!
Oh, and Cendrars did lose his right arm in the Great War.Moragavine, then, is Raymond aka Cendrars doppelganger: that ugly, nasty, evil, unPC part of ourselves we always have to keep in check, subdue, cut off at the collar.
Except Cendrars doesn’t do that: instead, he vests it all in Moragavine, and lets him rip, whilst following behind, and sucking it all in vicariously.
Trailing behind is Raymond: a sexless, ennui-ed, eunuch-ed, disenchanted half shadow of Moragavine, enthralled and possessed by him.Because Cendrars ultimately sees life as boring and empty once all the sin and strife has been stripped out.
The mirror reflects a monstrosity but what else was there to view but man devouring its own flesh, shitting out ideals only to fertilize the destruction that lay ravaged heaping with steaming germination.
Cendrars writes as if he is if to suffocate the reader in madness, the reader becomes a sadomasochist in the process, torturing the reader with its suppression of oxygen, almost on the point of death, until he releases your submerged head & finally allows you to breathe & oh the air is so sweet when escaping from such a dreary womb.
I especially appreciated reading about his hardships in writing & finalizing the book.
He simply couldn't stand the "turgid, pretentious style" to which he had committed himself.
3 stars..., bah!The problem may, of course, rather be that I don't understand Surrealism.
so perhaps more reading of it will cure me of my limitations.Cendrars loved this book.
The Jew lost his life.Cendrars seems to have been a man of excesses -- and yet capable of guilt.
Today, if it's back on the table, it's because Cocteau set things in motion again - that's what I hear.
I don't know Jean Cocteau and I don't want to hear about Jaloux.
This seemed to me to be the right (if not logical) next book after just completing  Fear: A Novel of World War I. Take the horrors of war and paint them allegorically in the form of a human monster. I was promised it would be "At once appalling and appallingly funny..." I found it neither, and as Sgt. Hulka once said, "I got a helluva sense of humor."There are plenty of positive to gushing reviews, so don't go by me.
A uniquely French embodiment of the prevailing madness of his era, monstrous and magnetic, Moravagine seems to be the spawn of Mirbeau, Fantomas, and dada, and a contemporary of Celine.
And, as with Celine, whatever my reservations, when he's spot on, he's absolutely spot on:Is there a more monstrous thought, a more convincing spectacle, a more patent affirmation of the impotence and madness of the brain?
War. Now and a thousand years ago.
Kill so you can be free, or eat, or shit.
Life lifts me into the air like a gigantic vulture.
At this height the earth is rounded like a breast.
Above, like dusky lungs, the oceans swell and fall in turn.
My hunting ground"In these moments, it comes across as a treatise, or a sui generis example, of synaesthesia, an unfolding and infolding of sense experience , example of the brains aptitude for to transmuting base materials into viciously hard gems,the arational absorption of phenomena reverse engineering stars from heaps of dung.
At other moments it's a bare-knuckle & rusty-shiv critique of "modern" culture: "The finest flowers of civilization.
A dark, comic journey through the early 20th century and across Europe and the Americas that is part Verne and part Celine (except this ends instead of starts with World War One).
The main characters are pretty horrible and disturbing and their adventures range from whimsical to pretty dark as they encounter a scary version of Russia during the 1905 revolt, trouble with Indians in America, hanging out with a monkey on an ocean liner, and finally a strangely heartbreaking ending in the aftermath of the world war.
A travelogue, nihilist philosophy, black farce, and historical novel.
Quite unlike much of anything else.
At first I thought it was going to be another French surrealist black fantasy, like Maldoror or The Torture Garden or Story of the Eye. And partly this is true: it's an episodic account of a madman called Moravagine (his name is an indication of his misogynistic purpose in life) released from an insane asylum by the doctor who is treating him, as part of a bizarre and unorthodox experiment.The amoral pair travel around the world getting into various scrapes.
Then they return to France and Moravagine becomes a pilot before the outbreak of the First World War.What makes this odd novel special is the quality of the writing.
There's a pleasantly jarring effect near the end when the author, Blaise Cendrars, enters the novel.
Zar Vam treba više?Počeću od jedine kritike koje imam na ovu knjigu – i u pitanju je vrlo subjektivan stav naravno.Volela bih da je knjiga konzistentnija te da je autor održao atmosferu romana na istom nivou od početka do kraja.Prvih 60ak strana knjige ( sve do dolaska u Moskvu) kao i poglavlje Plavi indijanci su najblaže rečeno remek delo, kako literarno, kako stilski pa usudiću se reći i vizuelno – iako nije sasvim ispravno.U ovim delovima,knjiga zahteva sporo i pažljivo čitanje.
I šteta je što je ,u odnosu na neka manje vredna dela, potpuno zanemarena.Uprkos mojoj kritici – preporuka – sve i da čitate samo ova dva poglavlja, isplati se !
A perfect "I'd rather talk about it than read it" book, which brings home to me once and for all how impossible it is to remain 'shocking' as history pro/regresses--like Celine, in that respect.
We have our 'hero,' Moravagine, and his Robin, 'Dr. Science.' Voila: the two main twentieth century paths to amorality, the nihilistic and the scientistic.
They travel the globe doing moderately shocking things.
More interesting by far is the apparatus Cendrars sets up around the picaresque: Moravagine's 'manuscripts,' the very hazy relationship between Blaise Cendrars and Dr. Science, Cendrars' reflections on writing the book.
And some of the chapters are worth reading.
The story starts out so promising.
We meet Moravagine in a mental institute, all of 4'11", monstrous, born of a dead womb, and jacking off into a fish bowl.
He's gruesome, yet somehow likable despite his misogyny, sexual assaults, murders, and impregnation of one woman that leads to her suicide.
The story gets far too plot-driven and I found myself wishing that the main characters would just stay put instead of bouncing around the far corners of the earth.
The ending takes a welcome postmodern turn...While Moravagine as a character may prove to be quite memorable, for me, the adventures certainly are not.
Here is Henry Miller: "There were times when reading Cendrars -- and this is something which happens to me rarely -- that I put the book down in order to wring my hands with joy or despair, with anguish or with desperation."
Not my thing: picaresque (in the style of Candide), angry (in the style of Celine), characterless (in the style of too many second-rate authors), etc.
Another favorite I read in 2008. Moravagine is based on Fantomas, which is yet another favorite I read in 2008. It follows a sociopathic cripple and his enabler who is the author of book (and named Cendrars). It's a crazed romp throughout Europe, Mexico and Russia - all the 'hot spots' of the turn of the century - all the spots filled with blood and change. Not only is a fun and bloody romp, but it's a smart commentary of the state of the world and it's blood drenched recent past.
His hands dangle at the ends of arms as long as a monkey's"In this unprepossessing figure, first seen masturbating into a goldfish bowl, our narrator sees "the superb creature who was to lead me to a grandstand seat at a tremendous spectacle of revolution and transformation, the transvaluation of all social values and of life itself" and so he assists the superb creature from a psychiatric asylum (operated by Doctor Stein who lives "exclusively on curds of milk, steamed rice and buttered bananas...the initiator of the health-dress and hygienic camel-hair underwear").
Rather the prose is comparable to nightmarish narratives whether from Joris-Karl Huysmans or Franz Kafka.The main narrative is in a picaresque style narrated by a young doctor who frees the mysterious Moravagine from an asylum where he’s been imprisoned for many years.
He spent about a decade from 1917 to 1926 writing this novel and Cendrars himself appears as a character in the later chapters; he has his narrator lose a leg while Moravagine loses his reason altogether.
This novel has one of those back-cover blurb singularities that just suck your ass into buying it because, hey, let's be frank, who wouldn't want to read a book about a mutant, a monster named Moravagine (which could be translated as "death vagina" or "death to vagina") who cuts an insane swath of anarchy, murder, and sex across the world in the decade before Dubya Dubya One. Fuck, they even compare it to "Naked Lunch"!
Burroughs work, though sheer senseless anti-prose, is kind of fun to read.
Then they wander around the States and South America...that's about it.
To me, Moravagine lacks in credibility of both its main character(s) and its story.
And yes, I’m aware that it was undoubtedly not Blaise Cendrars' aim to write a book with credible characters.
But it bothered me, to such an extent even that I wondered whether or not Moravagine actually existed (and again, yes, I’m aware it is a fictional story) or that he only existed in the mind of the person named ‘Raymond la Science’ (what's in a name...).
I can see what Blaise Cendrars is trying to do, and as such the book must certainly be considered a classic.
one literary niche i've gravitated to over the years might be described as "amoral french literature." this book is one of the more fast-paced, entertaining entries into that category.
unlike celine, who's consistently idiosyncratic tone makes a book like journey to the end of the night emerge as something truly remarkable, cendrars mixes and matches different literary styles.
all in all, i liked the book a lot - but i probably would have loved it a decade back, prior to clocking in so many hours with france's most demented writers.
anyway, this is a good book.

Y en ese sentido la poesía para mí es un acto, es un gesto más que un acto, de adolescente, del adolescente frágil, inerme, que apuesta lo poco que tiene por algo que no se sabe muy bien qué es.
O como Arthur Cravan, al que por lo visto conoció.Y ahora Moravagine La novela, tras ese prefacio que es la primera de las matrioshkas –papeles perdidos, intercambio de autorías–, se abre con el segundo narrador (Raimundo) entrando a trabajar en un manicomio y su reflexión“Las epidemias, y más especialmente las enfermedades de la voluntad, las neurosis colectiva, como los cataclismos telúricos en la historia de nuestro planeta, marcan las diferentes épocas de la evolución humana.
This didn't work. Too much wheel-spinning, un-compelling digressions... don't get me wrong, I like a good digression here and there. In fact, the very good book The Rings of Saturn is basically one big digression.The cover propaganda claims this book is like Naked Lunch but it's not like Naked Lunch at all.Maybe I'm not being fair. It's the holiday season, a rough time to try to focus on a book. In fact, I think I've had a rocky year reading-wise. I'm sorry.
The title of this book strikes the French ear as Death to the Vagina (mort au vagin)which is appropriate enough given that the protagonist is a globe-trotting Jack the Ripper. This slim little book reads in a flash like Candide transporting the reader from one point to another on the planet and from dogma to another in which the only constant is the protagonist's sexual fetish for murder. Moravagine is an engaging speculation on man's seemingly infinite potential for evil driven by his twisted sexual impulses. Read it if you have a taste for the noxious and macabre.Lu en francais.
An excellent mix of pulp adventure writing with the weight of the better early 20th century existential literature, sort of Dashiel Hammett combined with Celine if that means anything. It's as funny a book as I've read about staring into a black, meaningless void and realizing that human beings are totally depraved animals. Recommended.
