https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243401.The_Franchise_Affair
Named the 11th greatest mystery novel of all time in 1990 by the Crime Writer’s Association, The Franchise Affair was written in 1948.
Then, when even that part became fairly obvious, I felt compelled to find out why and how it all came about – or if more might still be revealed.I recommend this book to anyone who is a fan of mysteries and is interested in reading how a master in the craft goes about weaving a spell for the reader.
An exceptionally satisfying read – and I loved the ending!
Josephine Tey is a Tory reactionary and a snob, but she writes like an angel. This mystery novel of the English middle class at bay under the post WW II Labor party is almost as good as her "The Daughter of Time"--and that is high praise indeed.
I've been wanting to read this Tey title for a very long time &, other than the reader sees very little of Inspector Grant, it did not disappoint.
As it is a Golden Age you have to put up with an author's foibles, & Ms Tey has the firm belief that you can tell a criminal by certain characteristics - in this book eye colour(!) Never mind.
Tey's ability to sketch characters in a few words & her realisation of small town life (view spoiler)[ certainly not all innocent bliss!
(hide spoiler)] is quite wonderful & I was entertained until the end.
Moving the case into contemporary times, Tey updated this story to reflect various postwar concerns, as  Sarah Waters notes, looking at the "moral panics - about 'problem' children and juvenile delinquency, for example - of postwar life." For plot you can click  here; what I will say is that The main focus here is on the young Elisabeth Kane (Betty - 15), who had gone off to a suburb of Larborough to visit an aunt over a school vacation and disappeared for four weeks, bringing an accusation of kidnapping against two women (Mrs. Sharpe and her daughter Marion) of a much higher class upon her return, and their lawyer's search for justice as well as his need to expose Betty for the liar he believes she is.
Tremendously good read and I never expected that from the summary - the tale of two women being framed for a brutal kidnapping seemed incredibly far-fetched to me but I'd loved Miss Pym Disposes by the same author so I thought I might as well see if the rest of her work was as good.Well, it is, and then some.
We might follow Robert but I know as much about the Sharpes and Aunt Lin. This is also a masterpiece of a mystery novel - until very late in the book, the author makes sure we just don't know whether or not the Sharpes are guilty and since we spend so much time with them and they're so endearing, it's quite a feast.
I really liked Brat Farrar and Miss Pym Disposes, so it's a shame I absolutely hated the next two books of Tey's I read.
Nothing unexpected happens.What fills in the time is Tey elaborating on her theme of how the world is going to hell in a handcart and those people who have the right values need to find each other and clap each other on the back and tell each other how right they are.
It's one of those books where the author is very visible, trying to waffle on at the reader rather than tell them a story, and I'm afraid I get the idea I don't care for Josephine Tey's personality and opinions.
There are other generalities demonstrated in The Franchise Affair, even as the main character Robert Blair scoffs at them: class, politics, gender.
The two Sharpe ladies, Marion and her mother, are never caricatures of a type or class or pigeonhole – they say and do and think unexpected things – in other words, they are about as close as you're going to get in a book to real human beings.
The supporting cast – Robert's cousin and his aunt and his friend Bill Brough (the Patrick Troughton character) – are … I'm going to need to resort to a thesaurus soon… just wonderful.
I read this book to fill the Country House Mystery square of my 2018 Halloween Bingo card.This was my first Josephine Tey, but it will certainly not be my last.
His thunder is stolen by a bachelor lawyer, Robert Blair.I thought Tey did a masterful job of describing Blair—a man of a certain age who has never married, never left his small town, and never left the care of his aunt with whom he shares a home.
His kindness to Marion & her mother was above & beyond the call of duty and I ended up liking him very much.The twists & turns were well written, the motivations of those involved revealed, and the mystery eventually solved.
On one hand, I liked Robert (although to be honest I liked Nevil more) and Marion and her mother; on the other hand, I didn't find the story terribly compelling.
And it seemed a bit bizarre to me how casually Robert and Marion and Nevil et al could go on about how much they would love to actually torture Betty -- perhaps realistic, but I'm not sure if it was supposed to make the characters more sympathetic or was it an attempt at humor...?
Josephine Tey was recommended to me as an excellent classic mystery author, and various online reviews of her work supported that view.
I chose The Franchise Affair as the first of her books to read based on the number of online references thereto and positive reviews thereof.
However - it's not good; rather, it is incredibly dated and, worse, terribly lazily written (e.g., "her intelligent eyes") and plotted.
A classic it is not, much less one that stands the test of time.
I won't be wasting my time with any of her other books.
After a few disappointing reading choices of late, this well-written mystery without a murder was just my drop.
It's about salvaging your reputation when you really are innocent, all indications to the contrary.Trial by press (or at least online media) and public opinion is even worse now than it was in the day of smalltown weekly newspapers, so in that sense this book hasn't dated as much as some of Tey's work.
Can hardened criminals be redeemed by kindness?
And just what is a "hardened criminal"?
Tey knew her people and drew them well.
No está mal. Josephine Tey sabe muy bien cómo describir personajes y consigue meter de lleno al lector en el ambiente de la novela. Sin embargo, para ser novela de intriga, el final me ha dejado un poco fría, esperaba un último giro sorprendente de la trama del estilo de Agatha Christie.
When the author Louise Penny recommends a book as one of her top five mystery-reads it is good to explore her choice. THE FRANCHISE AFFAIR, penned in 1948, is a mystery...refreshingly so, not a murder mystery. Beautifully written with much descriptive, very very British, far more depth than a "cozy". A dusty relic on the library shelf!
The dilemmas of the more impoverished middle classes who could not now afford servants are documented without judgement.
The story concerns a mother and her middle aged daughter who are accused of kidnapping and beating a 16 year old girl with a view to forcing her to work as a maid.
They are defended by a country solicitor who takes up their cause.
They are pilloried by the tabloid press and the liberal left and the cause looks lost.
I was uncomfortable with the characterisation of the young girl as having absolutely no redeeming features; the court case scene was too contrived.
Robert Blair’s usual business is conveyancing, wills and investments but, just as he is rising to leave the office, he receives a telephone call that will lead him to a very different case.He is summoned to The Franchise, a large house behind a high wall on the edge of town.
Finally she found a locked door and made her escape.The describes the Sharpes, their car, details of their home perfectly.They are astounded, and insist that they have never seen the girl before.
Something about the story doesn't ring quite true to Inspector Alan Grant of Scotland Yard but everything about the girl's description of the house ties up and it seems as though she could just be telling the truth.However solicitor Robert Blair believes otherwise and sets out to prove the girl is lying.
I thought the book demonstrated very well the danger of mob violence and vigilante action against perceived criminals as well as showing how difficult it is t prove a negative.
Alan Grant doesn't feature all that much in this story as it is Robert Blair who does most of the detecting.
I'm strolling through Josephine Tey's mysteries in and between other books, having read them all many years ago.This one is an interesting reworking of a real case that happened in the 18th century, and is enjoyable.
There are a few jarring notes where individuals say they would like to beat up the girl who claims to have been abducted, beaten and held hostage, because the speaker believes she is lying.
There is a tone of "no better than she ought to be" and a looking down on someone seen as coming from the "lower classes".However, that is a reflection of the time it was written and the unravelling of the mystery is enjoyable.

Tey does things with her apparently simple plots that no one, but no one else can manage. A deliciously sly woman.
Just as we are having a discussion about believing survivors or rape and abuse, I read a novel in which the reader is invited to cordially hate and despise the accuser in a case of abuse.
And it doesn't add much to the discussion of how a situation, in which it's the word of the accuser against the word of the accused should be treated.
And this saves the book from being uncomfortable to read, and instead makes it very tense and interesting: how do you prove a negative?
How do you prove you didn't abuse someone, when they very believably accuse you of having done it?
This might be a common genre (common sense tells me it should be, because it would have sold well in that age), but this is the first book from the Golden Age of Mystery I have read that is so overtly vicious to liberalism and anti-imperialism.
The writing itself is not bad, the characters (the ones Ms Tey deems important and human enough) are well-rounded, but the book left me with a bitter taste in my mouth.
Who a character supports, in this book, is just a way to delineate who’s on Tey's political side, and who’s on the other, grievously mistaken, side.
An intriguing mystery well solved.
Threaded throughout the wonderfully paced and engaging prose are observations, absurd observations such as a particular colour of blue eyes denoting sex obsession, and the insistence on the criminality of the working classes being inherent in their nature and anyone who thinks otherwise being some sort of idiot bleeding heart.
Indeed this is harped upon throughout, and is triumphantly 'proven' by the impeccable upbringing of the young woman at the heart of novel, who falsely accuses the frightfully plucky (upper middle-class)types at The Franchise of kidnapping and beating her.
She knows her characters well and she knows human nature, treating us to snippets of back-story as she goes along, so we get to know them in stages, as if they were real people.
I have not yet read any other of Tey’s works but I like this approach, which suggests to me that we will get to know a disparate range of characters in her stories and not just get into the head of her hero.Thank you, Josephine, for treating us to this great book.
Two English women (genteel enough to be educated and living on an inheritance but not wealthy by the standards of their class) are accused of kidnapping and beating an innocent-looking adolescent girl because they cannot otherwise get a maid for their remote house.
To read her here (and also in The Daughter of Time) one would think that no labor organizer or political dissident (except Dreyfus, to whom the falsely accused women are compared) ever had a true cause for grievance and that police are never in the wrong--or at the very least the leftist press has never found a true case of any of this happening.
A country lawyer is called on to defend two unconventional women, who have been accused of kidnapping and beating a 16 year old girl.
The stakes grow higher when the accusations are retailed by a tabloid newspaper, and life for the two accused women becomes ugly indeed.The case comes to a happy ending, which would be unfair to reveal, except to say that the author does a remarkable job of playing with her readers in a developing(?) romance.
The book seems remarkably fresh, 70 years on.
Of course, it is a book of its time, and a bit black-and-white for my taste.
Two women stand accused of abducting a young girl, holding her hostage for a month in their crumbling old home (the Franchise), and beating her severely when she refused to become their maid.
The women, who swear they've never seen the girl before, reach out to a small town lawyer who's just beginning to realize how bored he is with his rather small and pleasant life.
Most of the book is spent more in character development than in actual mystery action.
The most exciting parts are watching how our hero the lawyer and his unique clients react to each new development.She really was the queen of mysteries.
Well I finished The Franchise Affair and I have to sat it's the first time I have been driven to finish a book by shear disgust at the ideas it puts forwards.
What carried my on to the end was disbelief that anyone could take this woman seriously.A friend passed this link on to (spoiler alert)http://www.theguardian.com/books/2009...It is a piece by Sarah Waters that puts the story into context.
I still hate the book, but maybe my reaction says as much about my own prejudices as it does about Ms. Teys.
Josephine Tey approaches Dorothy Sayers' level of literate mysteries. What I mean to say is, she's not just writing a "whodunnit." She's writing people, and they're pretty interesting.Although, I have to remark that out of three books of hers I've read, she's at 100% for making wild generalizations about someone's character based on eye color, shape of the face, etc. I thought the pseudo-science of phrenology had been abandoned by this time, but I must be wrong.
Often regarded as one of the best mystery novels ever. This novels bears some similarities to Agatha Christie novels of the 40’s. I’m a big Christie fan so this is right up my alley. It’s a rather cozy whodunit where the crime doesn’t involve an actual murder but a beat-down of a 15 year old girl in England. Enjoyable and I intend to read more of her mystery novels.
