https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107743.George_Washington
Written for a children, a book about many events in the life of George Washington. I'm reading Hamilton's biography right now, so it's interesting reading what happened to Washington to make him the man he was who we see in that book.
This book has been one of my favorite historical fiction book i read so far. I liked this book because i like history and this book has history i wold recommend you to read this book if you like history and long books.
In the book George Washington By Augusta Stevenson George Washington goes from being a very bad kid to being very kind and leading adult.
Towards the end of the book he would always go into shops and then he would get told to go out because he would bring his siblings inside who didn't act the way they should.
Then he would run away and hide so that they can't find him so he doesn't get yelled at or mad at.I like how it told about all of the details.
My children and I read this for history.
We all enjoyed the stories of what Washington was like as a child.
Each chapter gives you a key to his character and what type of person he was.
He is not charaterized as a perfect child, but getting into scrapes which probably caused his parents and teachers many headaches.
It gives a picture of what Colonial America was like, and we liked the descriptions of the family using the river for tranportation more than the roads.
It makes certain facts about history have some context.
So far I've been really impressed with this series. My children really seem to be connecting to the people and are really getting a feel for what it was like to live and grow up during that time period.I was really impressed with how great George Washington was. It's inspired me to read an adult bio of him sooner than later.
Read aloud to Emma and Will. They enjoyed hearing about George Washington's life as a child, but I think they would have been even more enthralled if there was more about his adult life than the final chapter's quick overview. I always enjoyed hearing the lesser known details about the early life in this biography series, but I was a bit older when I read them too.
I LOVED this book! It is a very easy read, level about 4th Grade, but it was very informative and I learned a lot from it. This book was very factual but it told a lot of stories throughout his life. I recommend this book to kids in Elementary School.
I was pretty impressed this book, I not a person who likes American history very much, but I really liked this book. I never was really interested George Washington before,but this book really inspired me...
Folks! This horror show isn't a book I'm "really" reading! That is, I'm not reading it to learn about George Washington. I'm reading it to learn about how people in the 1950s learned about George Washington. Big difference there!
I liked this book. It was the story of George Washington's life. I didn't know that he was a really great surveyor. You should read this book because you might find it interesting and learn a lot about all the things that George Washington did before he became president. Isaiah4th grade
I liked this book but I was disappointed that it was mostly about his life as a child. This is a good start for learning about GW but you need another book to pick up where this one ends. It also gives the reader a good idea of what life was like when GW was growing up.
It was fun reading about things I had never heard about George Washington including that he was once a surveyor.
It was ok. But it wasn't the best.
I liked it because I like U.S. presidents!!!!!!!!
This is my historical fiction book. Cute historical fiction mixed with some true stories about George Washington as a child. I especially liked reading it with a biography about George Washington.
This delightful book served as an enjoyable bedtime story to my son when he was seven years old, as he had already stated that George Washington was his favorite president.
AR Quiz No. 823 EN NonfictionAccelerated Reader Quiz Information IL: MG - BL: 3.7 - AR Pts: 3.0Accelerated Reader Quiz Type Information AR Quiz Types: RP
I read this with my children and we loved learning more about George Washington when he was a young boy. We learned some very fun stories! Fun book.
Engaging account for young readers that focuses on George Washington's childhood growing up in Virginia until the day he meets Martha Custis in 1751.
I liked it. It tells the story about the cherry tree.
A great and wonderful story for children to learn and understand the life of the "Father" of this country.
Biography of George Washington - tells primarily of George's childhood and young adult hood. Shows his strong work ethic from a young age.
Not sure how factual this book is, but I think it helped my boys to relate to him as a real person.
I liked it. Even though I already know a lot about Washington, I learned some new things.
