https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125926.Dime_Store_Magic
If you want to join a fun and active reading group, join this one.
You can even get away with barely participating, like me, and still be a happy member.Okay, now that the commercial is over.So, this book was about a witch, Paige, who has custody of a seriously bratty teenager who has strong magic.
We learn this a few times when her little spells ended up in much bloodshed.But, there are others who want bratty teen-witch for their own, and they are suing Paige for custody.
Yes, this book is a custody battle.
It's like a mind-reader or something.Will I read the next one?
concentrated on Elena Michaels, the only female werewolf in the world, and now we have Paige’s story, we met before.Paige, a young witch, who has inherited the leadership of the American Coven of witches after her mother was murdered, is living a quiet life in a small town and is the guardian of a teenage witch, Savannah.When dark forces try to take Savannah away from her care, Paige and Savannah will have to fight the supernatural powers that are determined to do anything to get Savannah into their clutches.The author has created likeable and endearing characters and it comes across in Paige, Savannah and Lucas, a sorcerer, who helps them and who also is attracted to Paige.
This book is about the young witch Savannah and her efforts to get used to her new family, her powers, and figuring out what is acceptable or not, very much in keeping with every single teenager in the heat of puberty, only when throwing a tantrum she can level a city block down to dust!
But, maybe there is one of the Lawyer persuasion, young, Hispanic, and new to the court proceedings, who might be brave and brazen enough to stand in their corner and go against a powerful House of Wizards...
“According to Cortez, the Cabals had strict policies against employing any supernatural being that might mistake them for lunch.” I have to admit that after the first two books through Elena's point of view, I wasn't excited about switching points of view and diving into Paige's head.
The funeral home, come on!If you've shied away from reading more of the series because you don't want head-swapping, I assure you Paige's story is filled with magic, dimension, and all sorts of Urban Fantasy goodies.
I think my overall sentiment was “well, if continuing is going to feel like starting a new series, it doesn’t matter when I read them (salty reader, party of one).” For the most part, that was true.
The story components weren’t earth-shattering, but I absolutely love where I think it’s going and look forward to seeing through some potential plot points.Dime Store Magic offered a good Kate Daniels/Julie* relationship between Paige and Savannah and had a lot of excellent witchy moments (by witchy I mean supernatural spell casting and other creepy shit).
The further I read, the more I appreciate how Armstrong is writing this series.Overall, comparing books 3&4 to 1&2 is like apples to oranges.
Of course no complains from me as this series turned out to be a wonderful surprise which I was definitely not expecting.Even though in this installment we get things from Paige's POV, which I thought would be extremely boring as I did not liked her in the previous book, we still get to read about this same world which is captivating me little by little.
I like that in a paranormal series, to start book by book and get to know a bit more of that new world with each new installment we get to read.
★★Dime Store Magic is the third installment in Kelley Armstrong's urban fantasy series titled Women of the Otherworld. I loved the shifter characters featured in the first two books: Bitten and Stolen. In the second book: Stolen, I tolerated the witches that were introduced and seemed to slowly but surely take over the plot. Now in the third book, the shifters appear to be totally absent - this story is only about the witches. I'm not a happy reader right now since the only reason I follow this
I loved the shifter characters featured in the first two books: Bitten and Stolen.
Now in the third book, the shifters appear to be totally absent - this story is only about the witches.
I'm not a happy reader right now since the only reason I follow this series is for the shifter pack.However...Even though I want to thoroughly enjoy my temper tantrum, I must take a moment to say Dime Store Magic wasn't a bad book.
Needless to say, I didn't enjoy the characters much at all, and if this series continues with the witches then I may have to drop it so please tell me that Elena, Clay, Jeremy, and the rest of the family will be coming back...please!!!!
The funny thing is that the MC, Paige, was in the previous book as well and I can't even remember her.
Considering Savannah's upbringing and the events of the previous book, it would have been completely unrealistic to have it any other way.Lucas...
Paige and Lucas do fall for each other, but that's a very minor part of the story and it happens well past the first half of the book.What you can expect is a good written story, with much more information on the creatures of the Otherworld, lots of action, some funny moments and little romance thrown in to spice things up.
A really good read.
Both of their mother’s died (reasons in the last book, Stolen) and they are constantly trying to make it work.Well, here comes a Volo (telekinetic) half-demon cop named Leah who just really wants Savannah for some reason.
I love Elena and Paige for different reasons and I am happy that more than one character has been the center of a book.Not to mention Lucas is 100% legit.Get into this series if you like risky things, gore, horror, supernatural, twist, and nonstop wonderfulness.WrensReads | Goodreads | Twitter | Instagram
Hamilton before she became sex obsessed to the point where a coherent plot was no longer an option ;)The action is pretty much non-stop and the secret world of witches and cabals working behind the modern day world is well done and a nice take on things.
The fact that they have to hide their abilities from normal folks is a nice touch and adds a touch of realism to the plot but I'm a little annoyed at the author for taking such obvious joy at poking fun at modern day Wiccans in the "They Aren't Naked, they're Skyclad." chapter.
You should read this if you like:  witch mythology with a twist, blood magic, covens, cults, non-skinny protagonists, slow-burn romance, small towns, necromancy, slight gore, and mild horror.Dime Store Magic reminds me of that time I went to watch Avatar with my whole family.
Like its Puritan origins, the witch's Coven in Dime Store Magic are abysmally boring, steeped in petty superstition, and run by a trio of old, narrow minded women.
There were times, while reading this book, that I seriously just wanted Paige to dump Savannah's whiny ass on the side of the road and set it on fire.
I enjoyed Stolen the second book in the series, although not as much as the first.
I was skeptical about Dime Store Magic because I didn't like Paige when I encountered her in the second book.
There's a whole scene at a funeral home that's totally implausible given the world building and the fact that Kelley Armstrong's universe is a hidden universe, meaning it exists within the one we all occupy.
I thought the sex scenes in Bitten and Stolen were well written...
It is narrated from the POV of Paige, a Coven witch introduced in the second book of the series.
He does it with the help of telekinetic half-demon Leah, also introduced in "Stolen." Paige quickly finds herself overwhelmed by both legal and magical assaults on her and Savannah and is forced to resort to the help of an unlikely ally - a sorcerer lawyer Lucas Cortez.Once again, Armstrong creates a very convincing world of witches and sorcerers, Covens and Cabals, spells and rituals.
At the end of Stolen, Paige took custody of Savannah--an arrangement that promised to be entertaining as at age 22, Paige was only roughly ten years her senior.
Things between Paige and Savannah are stable, but not comfortable; they're still trying to understand each other.
This is complicated when Paige receives a summons to appear for a custody challenge.
Paige shows up only to find that the challenge is really coming from Kristof Nast, Savannah's biological father, a sorcerer and heir of the Nast Cabal.
Not long after this, Lucas Cortez, heir of yet another Cabel, shows up on Paige's doorstep offering legal representation.Havoc ensues.This is not my favorite in the Otherworld series.
When I first realised the series moved away from Elena and the werewolves, I was slightly sceptical.
After reading the second book, though my liking for Elena took a bit of a decline and I wasn't too bothered about getting away for a bit.Following Paige's story would not have been my first choice, as she was very irritating in the last book.
This pulls the series back up there from the last book.
The thing about Kelley Armstrong is that while I didn't love the main characters or even the story line here, her writing is completely addictive and her world building amazing.
The issue I have with Paige is that while she seems like a fantastic person to know in real life, for an urban fantasy heroine… she just doesn’t cut it.
I am in love with Armstrong’s story telling ability.
In fact, Dime Store Magic would have gotten four stars from me if it weren’t for (view spoiler)[ the beyond awkward sex scene between Paige and Lucas.
I whipped through Bitten, Stolen, Dime Store Magic, Industrial Magic, Haunted and Broken in no time at all.The first two and the last books have as their main character the lone female werewolf in the world.
The third and fourth book have a young witch as the focal point and the fifth one features the story of a dead (but ghostly) witch.These were really good.
I'm really growing tired of series where the characters seem to be stuck at a certain point and it all feels like just more of the same (think Anita Blake).Good stuff here, check it out.
Jesus God, this book is boring!
It's one long explication of a magical quality that doesn't exist, explained by people I wouldn't allow in my home twice (I don't invite anybody back who lacks a personality).
When the book takes a break from that, it's canting morality at me.
I just cannot tell you how dull it is to listen to a person agonizing over the morality of a non-issue.
And I most certainly do not recommend that you find out for yourself by reading this tripe.
People with fully developed personalities know right from wrong and can pin it down for the rest of us in seconds.
A ridiculously fast re-read, done mostly to keep my mind of a building headache. It's done well enough. I found the story interesting. I just remained amazed that Paige could be so naive. Mistake after mistake, and the classic romantic "throw your rescuer out on his heels" mistake. Still, maybe small town living and thinking help explain some of that.
Things go from bad to worse as Paige discovers the custody suite involves the psycho half-demon Leah and a powerful sorcerer who alleges he is Savannah’s biological father.
From here things only continue to escalate and poor Paige and Savannah are dealing with issues ranging from annoying to downright life-threatening as the book continues.
Luckily a sorcerer do-gooder/pro-bono attorney, Lucas, steps in to help and Paige and Savannah.Yay for Lucas - but despite his help things keep spiraling out of control.
So far every book in this series has been completely different but I have liked them all.
As her life continues to crumble around her, Paige is forced to accept assistance from Lucas Cortez, a young lawyer with his own motives for helping.I decided to read Dime Store Magic again because I didn’t give Paige a fair shot the first time around.
(Especially, since I hadn’t cared for Paige in that story.) While I had ended-up enjoying Dime Store Magic on my first reading, I still thought Paige was a little lack luster.
I would recommend Dime Store Magic to fans of the series, but I don’t think I would suggest you start off with this book.
The way the story was told from her perspective really pulled you in, leaving you entertained throughout, giving you a much wider view of the supernatural world.
Looking at the witching world, it was a very different kind of story to that in the first two books.
Honestly, this book is very different to the prior two books and I loved this change.
It moves the entire series forward through introducing us to many new aspects of the world, allowing us to see things from another perspective, all whilst having a unique feel about it.
I love Kelley Armstrong's writing and I love the Women of the Otherworld series, but somehow I never got to reading Paige's books.
I started the series with Haunted (#5), then found out I had to start with Bitten, loved that, read Broken and Stolen in the wrong order and then proceeded with Jaime's, Hope's and Robin's books.
I thought Lucas was most endearing and I loved his budding relationship with Paige, although I do think the actual 'connecting' should have happened a bit later in the book as to have it even more ground.
That's why I really liked Paige.
Armstrong's world of supernaturals sounds like a very interesting place, and I'm looking forward to reading the other two books.
Paige and Savannah's relationship is quite interesting.
How Paige managed to not choke the life out of Savannah, I'll never know.
for Paige's sake.
So when Savannah causes trouble, the audience isn't sure to what extent Paige is going to be able to solve it, and it's an interesting cause of tension.The romantic element was predictable and thus pretty uninteresting.
The story could've done without it altogether, and may have arguably been more interesting without it since the motivations of the love interest would be further clouded.
I noticed that alot of people did not like this book.
I also noticed it was in comparision to the first two books of the series Bitten and Stolen with Clay and Elena.I don not think you can compare them They are alomost like a seperate series, they are just people that know each other.I have to say that I really did like the book.
I read it without thinking about Clay and Elena, and Bitten was one of my favorits books.I think the characters were good and solid and the story was interesting.
I also really like Paige and Lucas as a couple and that how that did not dominate the story, for a change.
I love witches so goddamn much and this slow burn was just masterfully executed.
This particular story revolves around Paige and Savannah in East Falls, Massachusetts.My TakeBigotry, pride, and fear are the name of the game, as Paige's coven is terrified of dark magic and witches who are not in a coven.
A vicious group who will do anything to woo the young, malleable, and extremely powerful neophyte, including commit murder — and frame Paige for the crime.It’s an initiation into adulthood, womanhood, and the brutal side of magic that Paige will have to do everything within her power to make sure they both survive.The CharactersPaige Winterbourne is the new leader of the Coven in East Falls, now that her aunt/mother is no more.
(hide spoiler)] I like how the romance took a backseat (mostly) in this one, even though of course, it inevitably happened.
Finally, another thing I didn't particularly appreciate was the fact that none of the spells that Paige, Savannah and Lucas use are mentioned - not until the very end.
Seeing as the book revolves around the fact Paige is teaching the other two witch spells and mentions them to be in Latin, Hebrew and Greek, you would expect at least one or two to be iterated by the narrator?
Even though I was a little lost at times (especially during the first few chapters), I ended up really enjoying Paige's book.Elena and Paige were exact opposites.
Elena was your average Mary-Sue who was the most super speshul woman in the world.
She stood up for her loved ones and sure, she had plenty of fears and limitations - she wasn't the strongest or the prettiest, but she kept pushing herself.
He was geeky and also a little lost, but he fought for a better world even if it put him in danger.
