https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/974742.The_Devil_Rides_Out
A tale of upper-class Satanists who, while pursuing their decorous mischief, make the mistake of targeting one of the three good friends of the esteemed occultist and adventurer, the Duc de Richleau.Although the tale is old fashioned, and the novel is marred by casual English public school snobbery and xenophobia, it cannot be denied that Wheatley really knows how to tell a story, and that the elegant Duc de Richleau, touring the rural roads of England in his Hispano-Suiza, is a memorable aristocratic hero.
Check out the 1968 movie version too (sometimes called The Devil's Bride in the USA).
It is probably my favorite Hammer film, and stars Christopher Lee as the Duke.
Within the pages of his thrillers one could always expect something about heaving, half-exposed bosoms or seductively pale thighs, and the hero's fingers would often be found lingering in such places, when not fingering the pommel of a sword or the trigger of a pistol.These novels were written in less complicated days, and Wheatley was unapologetic for - or probably simply unaware of - any offence he might be causing to ethnic minorities and people who had to work for a living.
That resolve was further strengthened when I read a very laudatory article by Stephen Volk on the book in Newman & Jones' excellent overview volume "Horror: Another 100 Best Books." And now that I have finally read what is generally deemed Wheatley's most successful and popular novel, I can see the Hammer film for what it is: a watered-down filmization that can't hold a Black Mass candle to its superb original.
As in the film, the book's two main set pieces are the midnight Sabbat (more atmospheric and chilling in the novel, taking place on the Salisbury Plain; not to mention more licentious) and the defense of our heroes within the pentacle as Mocata visits on them one evil conjuration after another.
He has a reputation for jingoism, racism, sexism and insanely reactionary political views, and for his unswerving belief that Satanism is a major force in the modern world and that we should have nothing to do with it because it’s really wicked and terribly naughty.
He dismisses any idea of the literal existence of Satan or of Hell as simplistic nonsense, and his heroes use Catholic, Jewish, Buddhist and even pagan rituals in their battles with the forces of darkness.
He certainly does believe in the forces of darkness though.

I got this book for 10 pence at a thrift shop in Belfast (yellow pages, cover wearing out) - I could not afford anything else, being in dire straits at the time -, I started reading it just for the sake of reading something and I loved it! The narrative is very good and I was quite frightened by the story's atmosphere. Living in Belfast at that time was somehow frightening as well.
An action packed thriller focusing on the practice of black magic. Good fun but some infuriatingly dense characters.
It struck me early on that this would make a classic Hammer Horror Movie, with the emphasis on 'ham'.
Obviously.The text is littered with all manner of references to satanic practices and daft myth and legend relating to the dark arts, to the point that it just becomes very, very silly.
No suspense, no terror, angst or pathos, oh and in the end, everyone, save the chronically obvious villain, lives happily ever after.Does it work?
Wheatley - człowiek o ponoć podłym charakterze i okropnych poglądach - był swojego czasu bardzo poczytnym autorem. Zupełnie się temu nie dziwię! Sprytnie prowadzi narrację, kończąc rozdziały w takich momentach, że serce wali z ekscytacji i należy wręcz czytać dalej. Kibicujemy dobrym i mądrym głównym bohaterom, którzy podążają za satanistami, poszukującymi fallusa, a ów ma sprowadzić na ten świat kolejne wojny i klęski urodzaju. Drodzy, jeśli potrzebujecie lekkiej lektury, wspaniałej rozrywki i uśmiechania się pod nosem w komunikacji miejskiej - musicie po to sięgnąć!
Wheatley has an interesting habit here of leaping onto the soapbox occasionally, taking jabs at all kinds of stuff that usually come from the mouth of his wise and learned protagonist, the Duc, but which feel like they just stem from nothing when you read the book.
Interesting that while the Hammer film does feel necessarily a bit tamer because of what could be shown on screen in England at the time, it somehow comes across as enjoying its subject matter a little more and not really trying to preach against it, except maybe for all the "Jesus stuff", but I'll come to that in a bit.The villain seems like he'd be interesting, but we mostly hear about him and what he does because of other characters relating events.
It was a very fast read, it was written quite simply, but there were very effective passages of action as well as lots of interesting discussion between the characters on the nature of magic and good and evil.
But as I read further it was easier to see the characters in the book quickly over shadowed their counterparts in the film, (with the exception of De Richelieu who always remained a lot like Christopher Lee).
First in the Black Magic series and sixth in the Duke de Richleau series revolving around best friends: the Duke de Richleau, Simon Aron, the Princess Marie Lou and Richard Eaton, and Rex Van Wyn.This ARC was sent to me by NetGalley for an honest review.My TakeThis is a very religious book, but more along the lines of Light versus Dark, Good versus Evil, and the Powers of Good.I should think Simon has an “inkling” that he’s dabbling in wrong things when he tries so hard to keep de Richleau out of it all.
Maybe those pesky Satanists intended to vote for Jeremy Corbyn?
This is a very racist book.
I know this is a book from the 30s, but I'm genuinely surprised Wheatley was on our side during the war.
The first half at least.
It's not a long book, but it's twice as long as it needs to be.
Which, to be honest, is exactly how I imagined them both from the book anyway.
And it's only an hour and a half.Apres moi, la deluge, but for now, someone open the Chateau Lafite!
It's nearly 11am and thanks to those pesky cultists I haven't had a drink yet!
God knows what I'd rate this now... As a teen I loved them. Bizarrely the one author my parents refused to let me read in those days - so of course I did.
My awareness of this Dennis Wheatley occult classic comes from repeated viewings of the 1968 film version of the story, which as a huge Hammer Horror fan I have seen multiple times.
I haven't encountered Wheatley previously and his writing style is a little bit dated in the long-winded passages of description every time the character enter a new setting, but otherwise this is pacy and exciting, with a great deal of research having gone into the descriptions of black magic rituals and the like.
The whole last quarter of the novel was entirely new to me, given that Hammer didn't have enough money to film it so excised it from the film version entirely.
First read this aged 14 and was captivated.
A set of wealthy people set out to rescue a friend wno has fallen into the clutches of a powerful satanist.Mocata will stop at nothing to obtain The Talisman of Set and unleash the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse on the world.To locate the talisman he needs the unwilling assistance of Simon Aaron and hypnotises him into becoming a satanist.Led by the Duc de Richleau, his friends begin a race against time and encounter the terrifying experience of Satanic entities.Detailed descriptions of Sabbats, kidnap and murder enthrall the reader.The beautiful doomed Tanith, the charismatic Duc, the naturalised Russian Princess, Simon the banker, Rex Van Ryn the suitor and skeptic Richard Eaton fill a cast of fascinating characters pitted againt the sinister cruel Mocata and his fellow satanists.Filled with suspence, old fashioned glamour and detailed accounts of black witch craft.
This book is special. It's one of a handful about which I said upon finishing: The movie was better. The movie was one of the best Hammer films ever, so there's that.The book is bigoted, rambly, and much like one of SS Van Dine's Philo Vance books, obsessed with impressing the reader with how smart the author is.All that being said, I still recommend it. Like so many classics, now that I've read it I understand so many other literary and cinema references.
Erm...I read this because my Dad said Dennis Wheatley was one of the masters of horror. Yes Dad....maybe before the 1970s. But I decided to placate him and read at least one of Wheatley's novels. Well this book will NOT scare you. Maybe because we've become familiar to more psychological horrors since the Exorcist. That said this book is extremley well written and Wheatley does have a gift for narrative prose. It will not scare though and read at your peril.....!!!!
Still the best Black Magic story I've read! Excellent.
Rather as if H. P. Lovecraft scripted a Hallmark Channel Mystery of the Week, but without Cthulhu. Black magic adventure yarn, a bestseller back in the day: guilty fun, done in by casual racism, sexism, and classism. Not unusual for the time (1934), but jarring nonetheless. I did enjoy finding out about Hispanos.
If you believe in God, you'll notice from some statements made throughout that Wheatley did not - a strangeness, for a writer of an occult thriller about Satanists and black magic, though possibly not quite as strange as one denying the existence of the Devil.
(He posits "earthbound spirits" and "elementals" instead.) And there's a lot of the black magic.
I realize it's based on mythology, but there was definitely an amount of smirkage which made it hard to keep the appropriate mood.) (hide spoiler)]So those are my thoughts on the occult side of this.
Η αλήθεια είναι ότι δεν τρόμαξα ιδιαίτερα ούτε ένιωσα κάποιο άγχος για την κατάληξη των πρωταγωνιστών, σίγουρα όμως ευχαριστήθηκα την σκοτεινή περιπέτεια στην οποία έμπλεξαν και όλες τις αναφορές γύρω από τον σατανισμό και την μαγεία που υπήρχαν στο βιβλίο.
Η γραφή μου φάνηκε καλούτσικη και ευκολοδιάβαστη, αν και λιγάκι γλυκανάλατη σε ορισμένα κομμάτια της ιστορίας.Σε γενικές γραμμές πρόκειται για ένα ευχάριστο και ψυχαγωγικό βιβλίο τρόμου, που προσφέρει δράση και σκηνές υπερφυσικού, χωρίς όμως να τρομάζει ιδιαίτερα τον σύγχρονο αναγνώστη.
Some of my favourite corny Rex lines:"Say, that sounds pretty grim!""Holy Smoke!
I don't believe such things.""Holy Smoke!
There's a little deus ex machina at the end, although I guess you can't complain about that when you're reading a book about Satanists, and everybody gets a happy ending.The other thing is that it commits the cardinal sin of being boring in parts.
The romantic afternoon between Rex and Tanitha really dragged to.
And it seemed like Tanitha was the only one capable or worth being saved by our heroes because she was beautiful.
First published in 1935, Dennis Wheatley's now classic story of Satanism and Black Magic has all the flaws of popular genre fiction of the period - two dimensional characters, wild coincidences, and dialogue that ranges from the merely clumsy to the surreally awful.
Its set pieces of horror moments are wonderfully creepy and scary as hell ( a black mass on Salisbury Plain is particularly effective), and he does manage some moments of suspense and terror as good as any in the genre.
It sets up a fast paced thriller with a fun situation in some areas, but the whole believabilty of it was a stretch, particulary when the Duke must convince Rex, Richard, and the reader that these things exist in a lecture format which drags.
In terms of overall structure, this occult thriller had a patchy pace which led me to want to read on, and also to quit.
In contrast to my expectations of a novel involving the occult, the writing and supernatural elements didn't work for me, and left an intriguing concept with an underwhelming impression.
Occult, Qabalah, Devil-worshipping, Astronomy, Astrology, Christianity, Black Magic, Yoga, Mysticism among many other areas of thought get mixed together in this famous adeventure thriller from Dennis Wheatley.
All of the various modes of thoughts are given equal validity within the narrative and Wheatley basically seems to treat them all as existing within his created world.
Once you read the novel it is an imperative to follow the book with the film of the same name starring Christopher Lee, which is a bit of a Hammer Studio's classic.
Probably the best Hammer film ever made.
Had Dennis Wheatly stuck to this basic premise, he probably would have had a cracking good story.
Unfortunately, he had to throw in some astrology, numerology, hypnotism, astral projection, vampires, Egyptian mythology, Catholic dogma and who knows what else into the mix and it doesn't quite come together.
Some of it works and is pretty cool (Egyptian mythology), some of it is pretty embarrassing (numerology) and some of it is downright annoying (Catholicism).
So, it's a mixed bag of a story, but enjoyable enough if you can tolerate a lot of silliness.
This book rattles along at a fair old pace.
There's not an ounce of fat on this, no unnecessary sub plots or digressions, it's good guys racing against the clock to save their chum from the grip of some dastardly satanists.Hammer made it into an excellent film starring Christopher Lee, Charles Gray, Patrick Mower and Paul Eddington among others and you can see why they would have chosen this as a likely movie.
Thrills aplenty if you can quiet that part of your mind that pipes up with comments such as "what a lot of nonsense" or "tosh, utter tosh!".
And for my part I've never had any trouble quieting my mind!
I found things to love and things to hate about this one.It's a good old-school ripping yarn, with a square-jawed hero caught up in devilish goings-on. Intriguingly, Wheatley uses names coined by William Hope Hodgson for his Carnacki stories.Stylistically, it has dated horribly; the Good Guys are white, wealthy and sound of body (and the resolution of almost every problem along the way depends on their wealth, connections, collection of vehicles that would make Bruce Wayne blush...); the Bad Guys are foreign, mutilated, or both.
Wheatley is turning into a guilty pleasure. Hokey, occult-based action, with liberal helpings of Wheatley’s infamous jingoism scattered throughout. Wheatley’s obvious belief in the superiority of the British people in particular (and the Caucasian race generally) is an interesting archival record of the time in which he wrote, and it’s hard to be offended by a dead writer whose viewpoints are so obviously dated. Just sit back and laugh at the throw-away paranoid racist lines!
