https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/995067.The_Children_of_Willow_Farm
The second book in the series is probably not as good as the first. The children basically get everything right the first time and work hard the entire book. No wonder as achild I believed that if you worked hard, were kind, never complained etc then your life would be perfect, and perfect things like getting donkeys to ride to school for Christmas would happen (it didn't happen lol)But still, these are innocent enough fun. I should drag out a copy of the third book, but I'm not sure I can handle the sickly sweetness. Three stars.
It's not as adventurous as in the first book. I live in a village where people grow cattle, milk them and sell the cows. So it's nothing new to me. The good thing about this book is everything went smoothly, without much problems and father was successful in his first try as a farmer. Well I don't know that's a good thing or not that this book just like go with the flow and everyone had a happy ending.
As the second book of the series, I think that I liked this one ever so slightly more.
Some of the things written in this book, I have never forgotten and hold close to my heart.
I feel that this series of book was the most well written of all Enid Blyton's books and this one in particular I feel was written close to her own heart.
The adventures the children have and the way it was written made me as a child feel like I was there and part of it.
This book is nice to read as a continuation of Cherry Tree Farm series.
But reading about farm animals is somehow not exciting as reading about Wild animals.
It almost read like a farming text book written in Enid Blyton's delicious language.
Also one begins to feel the disconnect between the protagonists love for their animals and the fate that awaits the animals.
While Enid Blyton describes in detail on how apples are picked, straw is made, corn is reaped, cows are milked, eggs are collected, sheep are sheared, she conveniently avoids where the meat is coming from and how the animals the children profess to love so much end up on their dining table.
But still I loved Enid Blyton's usual feel good tone.
Read it over 40 years ago and still love it!
One of the best Enid Blyton books I've ever read. I could just read it again and again..Very heartwarming tale. :)
I read the previous book children of Cherry Tree Farm as a child and it was one of my favourites.
I would agree with other reviewers this book isn't quite as exciting as the first book (which I must re-read).
However one thing that strikes me and that is a sad reflection of how times have changed since this book was written is their interactions with Tammylan an old wild man who lives in a cave and is trusted by the children and the parents a like, these days sadly children are taught to fear strangers especially those who are homeless.
An innocent book filled with childlike wonder. Thoroughly enjoyable even after all these years!
A nice cosy companion to fill you with the details of a farmhouse; Lovely tale. Gives you a nice, cosy introduction to the countryside life. Nice lovely reading.
I had a short period of wanting to be a farmer as a kid, and it was because of this book.
Of course, I realised fairly quickly that it was a highly romanticised view of farm life and that I didn't really want to be up at 5am to milk cows, or to spend my days scraping chook droppings off the floor, but at the time it sounded very briefly wonderful - especially the chapter on working in the dairy.
To this day I still have a yen to make my own butter.
Romanticised or not, it's still a great book.
I got this as a gift from my Dad when I was a kid and ate it up!
I can still smell the pages and feel their thick weight in my fingers.
What a great memory!
Unfortunately the book is not as great as the memory.
It did have its moments and my kids did enjoy it, but my wife and I kept looking at each other in dismay with an arch of eyebrows that meant "Oh no, here comes another three pages about how wonderful it is that we all have to work very hard to turn milk into cheese"!
Enid Blyton's work is always lovely, nostalgic and a little bittersweet because of it. The four children of Willow Farm are bright and cheery and this is a gentle, classic English tale.
really good for people who like farms
Blyton is a genius. I love her stories. They take you back to a more innocent time.
Not one of my favourite Enid Blytons (those were generally the series books) but I still used to like this one a lot.
As a kid, this book made me want to live on a real farm and actually hate city life :)
