https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184649.Baking_with_Julia
I've never reviewed a cookbook before but I just have to share my love of this wonderful book.
The flaky pie dough recipe (with instructions for making it by hand or with a mixer) is the messiest page in my copy, but oh, the delicious whole wheat bread, the challah, the walnut bread (this one's complicated and I've only made it once), and the buttermilk scones and blueberry muffins...wow.
The next day, when they have settled down, literally, they are more conventionally muffiny and a different kind of wonderful."All the recipes have clearly written instructions with drawings and photos exactly where you need them to understand.
This is a much-loved book in my collection- so loved that I'm on my third copy!
(Due to a series of unfortunate events to the first two.) I always love the clear, detailed instructions given when Dorie Greenspan writes a cookbook.
I never feel lost when trying something new from this book, wondering is this right?
And 2) This book was not written by Julia Child herself, she was only a collaborator and the host of the companion TV series on PBS.
(Which rocked!) If you keep these two things in mind, you will not be disappointed by adding this book to your shelves.
This is a great one. Everything I have made from it (at least half the recipes) has been fabulous. I like it, though, when cookbooks explain WHY you're doing what you're doing instead of simply assuming that "this is just the way you always do it" since I like to manipulate recipes and make them my own. That is harder to do with this book, but it is still fabulous.
This book is gorgeous! When I have time to make something fancy, this cookbook is my first choice. Recipes generally time-consuming, but there’s plenty of detailed instructions. And results are consistently fantastic.
This book is an essential for me. The instructions give tips on what to avoid, what to look for and other pointers that will be helpful the first time you attempt a new recipe. I highly recommend.
A companion to the television series, this book has recipes from diverse bakers. Written in Dorie's voice with Julia's name and blessing, it's pretty classic. Library checkout
It's a keeper and I plan to use it to death.Beautifully presented book, instructions are clear and well written, pictures lovely, food selection great.
It is written towards home bakers, and in some cases suggests a progression of recipes...this is fabulous.
Note: I use bread flour, not the all purpose flour the recipe calls for.Bagel recipe: I skipped the "5 minutes off, 5 minutes with the oven door open" as you're supposed to be working in batches here and I had another batch ready to go in.
The bagels were still delicious, the pepper gave them a little kick.Pitas were great, though it took a few tries to get a real "puff" going.
In the name of full disclosure, I have loved Julia Child since I was little and my mother and I would watch Cooking with Julia and The Frugal Gourmet on PBS.
I borrowed this book after my son asked me how bread is made so that we could make bread together, thinking it would be returning to the library soon after.
I never in a million years thought I would end up making my way through almost every recipe in the starter breads section, and yet I have.
The biggest surprise for me is that I have found baking the bread almost as satisfying as eating the bread!
I was still a baby in the mid-nineties, but full of an intense love for good food and a bit of baking hubris.
Had I known better at the time, I would have looked at the index of recipes and run the other way.
Based on the celebrated PBS series of the same name with a list of contributors to make any home baker swoon a bit, this is a jewel.
It's the kind of cookbook you look through and try to invent excuses to make things from.
Many recipes are not simple or casual, but they are reliable, delicious, and most importantly, fun.
The best part of this gem --besides the touch of Julia --is the variety.
While many baking books specialize in one kind of baking [cakes, breads, sweets, breakfast, and so on], this book has a wide variety of truly excellent recipes in a wide variety of styles.
Of course that makes sense, since it is a compilation of the best recipes of many accomplished bakers.
Everything I have made from this book has been truly excellent, and has introduced me to worthwhile authors.
I especially have enjoyed the flatbreads and associated recipes from Alford/Duguid; the savory italian egg-pepper-spinach-cheese-meat torte; the plum cakes; and the Italian "X" cookies.
Gingerbread Cake: 3 stars - not my favorite.
although I think this is a personal taste issue.
A very strong gingerbread.
I didn't love it.Savory Brioche Pockets 3 stars - with a different filling this would easily be a 4 star at least.
I just didn't fall in love with potatoes wrapped in bread.Ruffle Cake 4 stars - this might be a five if I try again.
I'll report back once I try again!Sandwich bread 4 stars - I made this for Valentine's Day and it was delicious!
I'm not much of a sandwich eater but my fiance and I loved this.
I love to bake more than cook and this book not only has a wonderful collection of various baked goods but is connected with one of, if not *the*, most fantastic cook/baker that has walked this earth.
Recently, I have had the desire to do more baking and decided to use this book instead of just collect it and I have not been disappointed.
I am finding also sorts of new or previously loved but didn't know how to make baked goods to try out.
The book is a gem just like Julia was and always will be.
I've been trying to learn how to bake bread and started with the Bread Baker's Apprentice.
Unfortunately I found Peter's books hard to follow and complicated.
It jumped around too much and I found that frustrating while trying to bake at the same time.Dorie's book is the opposite.
While the recipes appear to be tricky, they are not.
All the bases are covered.
I felt like she was in the kitchen with me guiding me through every step.
I would highly recommend it for anyone trying to gain an understanding of baking.
It's number one on my list do far on this subject.
This is a fun book to read, and the series on PBS is well worth watching--I love the one with her and the woman who owns Al FOrno's. The recipes are more the people she bakes with than hers, and you really cannot easily use the cookbook with out foreknowledge of the series--it is a strange assortment of recipes otherwise--but things I saw on the show worked when I used recipes in this book
I have owned this book for about 15 years. I remember the PBS series that featured the recipes. If you get stuck anywhere in the book, you can still find the videos online. The Challah recipe is wonderful. I made the pita bread yesterday with hummus. Dorie Greenspan, who wrote the cookbook, also has a good baking book called Baking. I am making the cheesecake recipe out of it today.
Mine at last! Can't believe it took me this long to get a copy of this book, since I've been making the scones recipe for years since catching the episode on TV. The recipes may not be Julia's, but based on her imprimatur and the good scones experience, I expect great things! Now if only I had some extra stomachs...
It's a mainstay on my cookbook shelf, which is a pretty high rating in itself. I don't keep a lot of cook books around, since "just recipes" are easy enough to locate on the web. I've never made a recipe that has been less than wonderful, and the magazine look and feel, along with extra bits of narrative and nuance put up there with cookbooks my kids will inherit.
LOVE. THIS. COOKBOOK!Has all the recipes from the PBS series of the same name. I've made quite a few of the recipes, and they have come out quite well. My particular favorite is the recipe for Finnish pulla, a rich, cardamom-scented coffee bread. The recipe is much easier to handle than most of the other recipes I've come across for pulla, which are usually two or three times as big!
Based on the PBS series, this cookbook combines two of the best voices to have in your head - Julia Child and Dorie Greenspan - as well as all the bakers who joined her on the program. I have made simple recipes from here but where it excels is to help you through the complicated processes like laminate doughs, brioche, and wedding cakes. An essential baking cookbook.
Talk about "baking for dummies" - this book takes a reader through the basics! The good news is, it also respects a reader's intelligence. I've been baking/cooking my entire adult life, but haven't worked up the nerve for some of the more daunting projects like phyllo and croissants, but you know, I just might give it a whirl after all.
Based on the PBS television show where Julia Child met with other well-known bakers to show techniques. Well-illustrated and covers both basics and special items. I should be baking something instead of typing! But the realities of life mean that this book does not live on the pantry shelf, but upstairs where I will retrieve it when I get ambition.
Once you have this book, go onto to YouTube and bring up the series. You will find most (if not all) of the recipes are very simple for the home cook. Not only are there some great recipes here but there are also quite a few helpful hints... and of course when you're watching the videos, you get Julia's wonderful humorous comments.
My favorite baking book but just know in advance Julia never does anything the easy way; she prefers the best and hardest way to make everything. Her pie crust alone is 3 pages of instructions and it is probably the best pie crust ever but it's very involved and tedious to follow the directions! I still LOVE this book!
I watched most of this series on my iPad and then read the book. I love especially the bread recipes and can't wait to try them. Julia makes you feel like you can cook anything even complicated in your own kitchen.
If you have one cook book for baking in your kitchen then this would be it. The descriptions are wonderful and very precise. With Julia you never have to figure out what she meant. This is a nice sized book with terrific images.
Excellent bible for anything baking. EVERY recipe I have ever done from this (probably over 30) has been a standout and repeat. Love it. Julia knocks another one out of the park. The book also was well awarded (which tends to be a good sign of good cookery) like the James Beard award.
I love perusing this book and drooling over the recipes. However, I'm pretty much a baking failure- even with Julia's help. Maybe if she was next to me in the kitchen, telling me not to worry, no one will notice, just patch it...
Classic Julia Child cookbook....many ingredients, many steps. For those who love baking both sweet and savory, this is a fantastic book. I recommend that it be used by an intermediate or very experienced baker.
Yes. What is it about reading cook books? I love them! You can't help but be amazed and also drool after reading this book. The next question is do I dare try to make any of these things? I wish I could bake!
I was so obsessed with this cookbook when it first came out, as I loved watching cooking shows when I was younger (and still do nowadays) esp ones with Julia Child. The one recipe I've actually tried out of here was the French bread, which took me six hours to make but was amazing.
