https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35207298-sunburn
4.5 Stars!My reviews can also be found at: https://deesradreadsandreviews.wordpr...The cover of “ Sunburn ” caught my eye right away. And after reading the book description, I was really looking forward to getting my hands on this new novel from Laura Lippman.The novel opens in Belleville, Delaware in 1995.When Polly and Adam meet at the High-Ho restaurant in Belleville, they’re both just passing through. Polly, a redhead with a two-day-old sunburn catches Adam’s eye. They aren't sure what to ma
And after reading the book description, I was really looking forward to getting my hands on this new novel from Laura Lippman.The novel opens in Belleville, Delaware in 1995.When Polly and Adam meet at the High-Ho restaurant in Belleville, they’re both just passing through.
It isn't love at first sight but there is a definite attraction.Polly has a past but she’s planning for a brighter future.
But sometimes people with the best intentions have the worst luck.It’s not long before Adam and Polly are completely wrapped up in each other.
But Adam can’t reconcile these warnings with the woman he’s getting to know.
Great book. Well paced. Beautifully observed details. Interesting characters and nuance in the right places. The overall mystery sustains itself well for quite a lot of the time. Thoroughly enjoyed this book and the protagonist who is flawed and brilliant and ruthless and unapologetic.
OOH, my review went up on L.A. review of books today!!https://lareviewofbooks.org/article/l...**************************************************super excited to be reading and reviewing this for l.a. review of books!!! review is scheduled for 3/5
It’s like the second half completely fell apart, or more accurately, stagnated in place and went nowhere.
Boring!I’ve had the ARC for months, but ended up using an Audible credit for the audiobook.
Maybe the editors got so bored they fell asleep during the last half of the book and forgot to E - D - I - T.
I feel like too many plot angles and character narratives were revealed so early in the story that the reader is just left hanging around for the second half of the book, waiting for the other shoe to fall.
3.5 Stars.
I loved the book until about the 75% mark.
Then I found myself surfing Instagram and fast forwarding.
It was just a little too slow of a burn for me.
Please note that I don’t have the best attention span for books like these unless I love the subject or the characters.
I did enjoy the fact that it took place in 1995.
I have fond memories of my early 20’s so references to songs, pay phones, calling cards and OJ I enjoyed!
If you enjoy dark mysteries that unravel slowly then take a chance on this book.

Ten years ago or so, I had the fortune of meeting this author when she was at ALA in Chicago.
We were given a copy of her newest book, one I went home and read.
Let the author take you where she will.
I think here, Lippman is at the top of her game.
If Hitchcock was alive I think this is one he would have snapped up in order to make a movie.
A interesting and well done stand alone from this author who seems to get better and better with each book.ARC from Edelweiss.
I recommend picking this book up without knowing a lot of details of the plot.
When Polly and Adam meet, they both have secrets.
Polly is on the run from a complicated past.
Meanwhile, Adam has his own secrets.
We are told in the beginning that, unknown to Polly, he is a PI who was hired to find her, but we don’t know why or by whom.
Both are deeply flawed and you just know the attraction they feel for one another is ill-fated.
I didn't know who to believe or trust and was kept guessing right up to the end.
Dangerously seductive!!!....lustful puzzling steam ....compelling & alluring....unsympathetic characters....secrets, lies, love, betrayal, manipulation.......crime, murder, mystery....The ending wasn’t predictable to me ( perhaps part of it), surprisingly satisfying.I had mixed feelings for awhile with this book - but I kept returning - glad I didn’t give up ( a few slow parts)...but overall I definitely liked it enough to be interested in reading more books by Laura Lippman.
I enjoyed this original mystery.
We know Polly is hiding things from her past when she meets Adam at a bar in a small town in Delaware.
She intends to go West, he’s passing through.
But against both of their better judgments, they fall for each other and stay where they are.They’re both hiding things from one another, things that are revealed to the reader and each other over the course of the book.
Polly is an odd character, but I ultimately liked both her and Adam.
There were clear villains in this story, some who weren’t even alive anymore.For more reviews: please visit: http://www.theresaalan.net/blog
*Potential spoilers ahead, even though I hate them I don't know how to express my thoughts on this one without them*I hadn't heard of this book but when I was browsing Barnes and Noble after a particularly stressful day I noticed it was 60% off and figured for that price even if I hated it, it was fine.
I know maybe I'm spoiled when it comes to suspense and thrillers, but I felt like I was checking my progress in the book every 5 minutes because it felt like hours had gone by but I'd finished only a chapter.
It’s one of those books where even the reader feels unsure of their footing as you’re constantly reevaluating each of them as new revelations come out.
In fact, a great deal of this just takes place in the heads of the people as they think about their secrets and suspicions even as they go about the routines they fall into over the course of the story.That’s where the character work shines, and Lippmann shows a real flair at walking the line of leaving a reader unsure of what to think of both of them.
Is one the victim and one the villain?
Like The Postman Always Rings Twice or Double Indemnity, it focuses on two lovers, Polly and Adam, each of whom has closely held secrets that are revealed very slowly as the book progresses.The story takes place in Belleville, a small town in Delaware, forty-five miles from the beach, and where nearly everyone is simply passing through.
Adam spots her and moves in slowly, but the connection is made, and the two of them will wind up staying in Belleville and working at the High-Ho, long after each of them had planned to be well down the road.As the summer progresses, someone will die, and the death will have critical implications for Adam and Polly and for their relationship.
Shoulda known better......Laura Lippman begins her story with two elusive strangers, a bit of alcohol, and a definite casting their fates to the winds.
Seems like one of them is hiding out and trying to keep ahead of the backstory.
Only that backstory will be bleeding into every minute of every day that follows.Polly (Pauline) is trying to keep the lid on some awful secrets in a spring-loaded box.
Their explosive relationship may just have some fiery elements that singe the lives of others, too.Truth be told, I've not read a lot of Laura Lippman.
She had it planned, but we don't know why.Gregg was ready to leave the marriage, but Polly took off first.Adam is also mysterious because we don't know what he is up to since he showed up at the same time Polly did and decided to hang around and work at the same place Polly found a job.The suspense continues non-stop as secrets come out and Polly keeps manipulating and planning.
Surprises continue to pop up, and the intrigue intensifies as Polly continues to secretly and mysteriously do what she does best.Wow...Ms. Lippman has outdone herself with this book.Absolutely loved it...the entire storyline and ending were great!!Ms. Lippman has written another psychological page turner which is going to be a favorite.
It is utterly riveting as you follow Polly and Adam through a long summer of a relationship built on lies, neither of them are who they appear to be to each other and ultimately things will take a very dark turn..I loved this one because it wasn’t so much about the mystery elements at all, this is a tense and completely absorbing psychological drama, an understated yet captivating unraveling of motivation and personality.
Polly is especially puzzling, not only to us the readers, but to Adam who is more drawn to her as time moves on…I love stories like this.
I’ve seen many others say that Sunburn is not typical for her, but I loved it and her writing is so nuanced, so dang good that I won’t be missing out on her books in the future.Polly is a mysterious woman with a plethora of secrets in her past, you know little about her for a long time, Lippman methodically peels back the layers of her character until you get to the core.
Adam also has a mysterious past and the same goes for him, you slowly but surely gain information about his history and you’re just never totally comfortable trusting either of them.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/ “I really would like to get to know you.”“Trust me, you wouldn’t.”  The gin joint is the “High-Ho” in Belleville, Delaware. The she is Polly. When Polly meets Adam they both claim to be simply passing through town. Somehow they both end up working at the High-Ho. She as a waitress/he as a short order cook. Their attraction to each other is impossible to hide. Who they each truly are appears to be easier to conceal. Someone is pulling
Who they each truly are appears to be easier to conceal.
It’s definitely a story where the less said the better, so save yourself from spoilers.
Also be prepared for some characters you will find truly TURRRRRRRIBLE.
I won’t blame anyone from wanting to shy away or feeling like they need to put this one down, but if you stick it out to the end EVERYTHING comes together.
I'll definitely be checking out more of her stuff in the future.Many thanks to my favorite curmudgeon for being my book fairy on this one and saving me from the endless library wait list!
Sunburn is told in many points of view, which if you follow any of my reviews I love that!
Polly or Pauline was a straight hard ass and I wasn’t sure if I was going to like her at all.
The story opens up to Adam noticing Polly with sunburned shoulders sitting at a bar alone.
That doesn’t end up happening though, Adam and Polly both end up saying in Belleville.
Adam and Polly each have a goal of their own.
Adam starts to question himself about Polly, he loves her but he himself has secrets that need to come out.
In the end, I ended up loving Polly.
Laura Lippman's  Sunburn  is quite possibly one of the most original mystery novels I've read since I've started my Goodreads account. It's a complex, well-written mystery that not only hooks you into the story, it doesn't let you know who in fact you want to root for! This is one of those mystery novels that you need to go in blind to get the full effect, but let's see what I can provide for you before I give you my overall thoughts. Set in Belleville, Delaware, Polly is enjoying a cocktail at
The way this story is written, not only are the cast of characters in this story unable to trust each other, but as a reader, I had a seriously hard time knowing who or what to trust.
By the end of the story, there were definitely lines drawn in the sand for me, but Ms. Lippman was able to provide a perfect narrative for me to decide who on my own, rather than her forcing a suggestive narrative.
I'm intrigued by how Laura Lippman paints a mystery story, and am curious to pick up one of her other reads.
Instead I was pleasantly surprised to find one of the best works of modern Noir with a classic touch that I have read in a long time.
Lippman has created a femme fatale character that stands her ground with any of Chandler’s characters and then some!The book opens with two strangers in a bar – yep – a gorgeous woman with a sunburn and a handsome man who cannot stop watching her.
Here Polly and Adam arrive separately to a small Delaware town and slowly get to know each other, but not fully.
She is a schemer and will surprise you many times, is all I can say.Loved the noir feeling of the book, the hot simmer of a lust-filled summer with no air conditioning, the vintage everything from clothes to jewelry to furniture, and the references to 1940s crime dramas like Double Indemnity and The Postman Always Rings Twice.
They don't make 'em like that these days, but Lippman sure knows which buttons to push to match the overall mood and effect.
Sunburn is the kind of book which hooks the reader with mystery and suspense while questioning the authenticity of the main characters motive and purpose throughout.
Thought provoking with an simmering level of intensity which feels like its threatening to boil over at any moment, Sunburn reads equal parts Lisa Lutz (The Passenger) and James M Cain (The Cocktail Waitress) - suburban noir at its finest.
Author Laura Lippman devilishly adds complexity to the main character in Polly, by infusing her backstory with seemingly murderous and heartless wrongdoings but balances that out by providing her with a likable firecracker quality, equally dangerous and exciting A note on the audiobook: Regina Reagan's narration compliments the book perfectly.
A story of two people that show up in a small town at the same time both with lies and something to hide from the other. But who is lying and who can be believed? This story was a bit slow for me in places but towards the end it really came together. Polly and Adam were amazing characters and I would have like to have seen the ending a bit different but it wasn't a totally horrible book. Be prepared for some lulls in the middle of it.
Sunburn started off strong for me.
Little by little I learned more and suspense began to build.
I’m okay when a suspenseful book has a slow build but this seemed almost the opposite for me.
As time went on, the story almost seemed to slow down and I began to lose rather than gain interest.
So, apparently I’m in the minority here as there are so many high ratings for this book.
I will give a different Lippman book a try as I hear good things about this author and I think I started off with the wrong Lippman book.
Sadly, not a hit for me.
I have enjoyed many of Lippman's books in the past, but this one felt like I was waiting for something big to happen that never really did.
I didn't truly care about any of the characters or their outcome, so I couldn't get into this like I would have hoped.
Since I have enjoyed some of her other books in the past, this will definitely not deter me from picking up what comes next from Lippman.The best part about this for me was buddy reading alongside my friends Dennis & Shannon!
Close friends with Megan Abbott and married to the inimitable David Simon (Simon and Lippman met and married as Baltimore Sun crime reporters), I knew that it was long past time I gave this woman's writing a try.
Cain (who lived in Baltimore and also wrote for the Sun) Lippman's latest book is definitely in the domestic noir tradition that deals in desperate characters with shady pasts carrying big secrets where trusting the wrong person could mean your life.
Adam is a private investigator who has been hired to follow and befriend Polly because someone thinks she has a lot of money stashed away some place -- possibly the insurance settlement she got from killing her first husband.
I have read at least 10 Laura Lippman novels (this is the 6th since I started using this Goodreads account 6 years ago) and while there are a couple I like a lot, most of the time I read them and just want a little bit more.
But from the beginning I could tell this was going to be my favorite Lippman book.
Cain, one of my favorite writers, and one of the godfathers of Noir-style crime fiction.
It is why I gravitate to crime writers like Megan Abbott who take that noir style and focus it on mysterious and intriguing female characters.
Cain’s influential novel, The Postman Always Rings Twice (“they threw me off the hay truck about noon”), the reader is thrust into the story with limited knowledge about the characters.
Lippman holds her cards close to her chest, choosing to leave her audience in the dark for as long as possible.
Just when I would develop an opinion on a character, Lippman would show me something from their past that would completely change everything.
It didn’t take long before I could no longer take these layered characters at face value.With Sunburn, Laura Lippman has written a sizzling page-turner in the style of a classic noir.
★★★1/2I've waited to long to read more books by the popular Laura Lippman, and this one seemed right up my alley.
Lippman's set-up is classic pulp noir: a drifter meets a sexy redhead with a mysterious past in a sleepy small town diner and they embark on a relationship that they both know probably won't be the healthiest one.
For the first half of the book, I couldn't wait to keep reading to see where the story would take me.Then, coming up near the end of the novel, I began to suspect that it wasn't really taking me anywhere.
