https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74403.The_Deptford_Trilogy
I spent about two weeks reading this and that's a lot of time for people to be asking: "so what is it about?"It's usually non-readers who ask such questions because readers know better than to ask what a 800 page book is about.
After all, he does specialize in myths and likes to attribute more meaning to things than other people think it’s reasonable.The Manticore looks on many events from The Fifth Business from a different perspective and through a different medium – Jung style psychoanalysis which Boy Staunton’s son is undergoing.
It’s clear that Robertson Davies is a big fan of Jung and weirdly enough this was the book I have read the quickest of all three.

The second book, The Manticore, is notes from the Jungian analysis of a wealthy Canadian lawyer, touching on archetypes, alcoholism, first love and death-masks.The third, World of Wonders, is the life story of a performer, told to a film crew as they search for a subtext to their film, touching on circuses, kidnapping, clockwork, and a very British theatrical tour.All three books are linked by Deptford, the home village of two of the men, and also the home village of Boy Staunton, the lawyer’s father, and linked by the death of Boy Staunton under odd circumstances.
Read most of this book under the shadow of Cortez's Cathedral in Mexico sitting by a pool and smoking really bad pot. Anyways, somebody I barely know suggested it. I'm glad he did...it got me through a tough time. Took my mind to another place when it was in another place to begin with. Something quaint and imaginative about the way he writes, like a master storyteller with no other agenda than the story at hand.
It's thoughtful and takes it's time, but it's a good story -- basically the entire story of one man's life, with scope and interest and some lovely and truly felt imagery burned into the center of it.The emotional detachment author -- or the narrator, but the difference here is academic -- is part of the book, but it also renders the tale in less vivid colors than I might have liked.
Or, let me say, if the narrator had been closer and more emotional about the tale, it would have been a different sort of story, maybe more in the Austen/Bronte sort of vein.
The Canadian author had a long white forked beard that was strikingly demode in the 1970s when he delivered the three books of this excellent Deptford Trilogy.
If Robertson Davies chose to look from another age deserting the barbershops of Ontario, that was not a sign of personal carelessness but very much a deliberate intellectual disguise.Davies' old-fashioned long white forked beard had at the same time the gravitas of the British born naturalist and the bonhomie of the popular gift-bearer.
No surprises that reading "The Deptford Trilogy" to me has been like embarking on the Beagle with a flying open sleigh on the deck ready to take off at the author's call.
Whenever I mention this book the very few who recognize it ask me if I am Canadian.No, I am not Canadian.This book skirts a very fine line between the entirely possible and the gothically surreal.
Told in trilogy form the story sprawls in the best possible way.
The book is worth reading simply to gain the aquaintance of the narrating character.
(I'm not sure I have crushed so hard on a literary figure since Schmendrick the Magician.)His views and musings are so fresh and well put that I, heaven shrive my soul, broke my own golden rule of no-book-marking to capture and mark numerous passages for return perusal, and return I have.
I know that is is supposed to be a fantastic trilogy but it really didn't do it for me. Was I too young the first time around? Perhaps. If enough GR friends push me to do so, I'll give it another shot.
Intertwined with his story is the life of Percy Boyd 'Boy' Staunton, Ramsay's boyhood friend who threw the snowball, and who later becomes a wealthy businessman.The Manticore is the story of Boy Staunton's only son, David.
World of Wonders is the story of Paul Dempster, the son of the woman hit by the snowball, who after initially being abducted by a circus has grown up to be Magnus Eisengrim, a famous magician.
Ramsey becomes convinced that Mrs Dempster is a saint (especially after a vision he sees of her in WWI) and devotes his private life to the study of saints and the exploration of their role as myths.
Robertson Davies was a big fan of Jungian psychology, so if you enjoy archetypes in literature this will be a true character identification feast.
How each narrator perceives the world around them plays also a big part in solving the Mysterious Death that drives the plot, so you get to play the shrink-detective.The Best: * The dialogue.
* The female characters (except for Leola Cruikshanks and Doctor Jo) and the fact the sexiest woman in the trilogy is also the ugliest.
* Paul Dempster’s metamorphosis into Magnus Eisengrim.The Worst: * Boy Staunton’s appalling comments and opinions on everything, from women to religion to child rearing to friendship.
* Boy Staunton’s wives.
The trilogy consists of three books: Fifth Business, The Manticore, and World of Wonders.
The books each tell the same story from the point of view of a different character and center around the murder of Percy "Boy" Staunton.
Fifth Business, my favorite, introduces Dunstan Ramsey on the occasion of his retirement from his longtime position as a "public" school teacher.
Finally, World of Wonders tells the story of Magnus Eisengrim, a world famous magician whose very existence is tied to the relationship between Ramsey and his "life-long friend and enemy" Boy Staunton.
Sí, costaba casi treinta euros, ya sé que son tres libros en uno por lo tanto no salía excesivamente caro, pero me paraba un poco.
Pero el último tercio aproximadamente, (cuando cuenta ya con unos cincuenta años) y de ahí en adelante, se me hizo un poco más pesado.Creo que fue porque las pequeñas cosas que se van contando logran entretenerte, pero hasta cierto punto.
Creo que con mis palabras se puede adivinar que me gustó, pero esperaba un poco más.

The Deptford Trilogy--A Canadian Bulgakov, if you can wrap your head around that--magical, dark, comedic, and mysterious. Robertson Davies deserves to be read and reread and reread.
In particular the second volume (The Manticore) was a low point (more like 3 stars), at least until toward the end of it when Davey ends his Jungian therapy and meets up with Ramsay (narrator of the first book) and Liesl (the most intriguing character of them all, yet the one whom we hear from the least), but this is rather late in the book and so comprises only a small percentage of its content.
I fear I've become too jaded in my reading.
Probably not, unless I knew the nuances of their reading preferences almost as closely as I know my own.
His attic, like his mind, is insulated entirely by books and that is where I discovered Robertson Davies, who I was not expected to understand at age 15.
I also, thanks in part to Joseph Campbell, came to understand archetypes through Davies' novels, and to discover and somehow maintain a sense of wonder at the world, which we can never truly fully know.There are only two other people I have met who enjoyed this series, and while that doesn't sound like strong praise, I think it is just that, for these men were of exceptional character.
I devoured it and could not wait to read the next book in the series.
In a way, I don't think either of the follow-ups quite match the elegance of the first book, but the second one I loved almost as much, and there are great parts in the third one as well.
And in the end, I think it's a really fascinating story beautifully told, and I will admit that I am half in love with the late Robertson Davies.
Heh...Anyway, I am most definitely looking forwarding to reading his other works (I have most of them already purchased and ready and waiting on my bookshelf at home).
As the title implies, this book is actually three novels, Fifth Business, The Manticore and World of Wonders.
One throws a snowball which contains a stone, and misses its target, hitting the pastor's pregnant wife by accident.
The blow from the stone precipitates a premature labour, and leaves the pastor's wife incapacitated for the rest of her life.
The novels are linked, but can be read independently with no loss of enjoyment.
It's worth reading the whole trilogy just for this section, and it is this third novel which lifts the books onto a whole new level.
Just recalled this author and the best of his trilogies. Read the review...the books are elegant, cleverly funny, inventive, never predicable...great reads! I would love to read and discuss with you!!THIS IS ANOTHER TRILOGY WE HAD DISCUSSED READING TOGETHER...I AM CURIOUS AS TO HOW I WILL LIKE THE READ, THE SECOND TIME AROUND.
I found these to be a strangely smooth, soothing reading experience. Plus, I got to learn about obscure hagiography and Jungian psychoanalysis.
The Deptford Trilogy, finished in 1975, was his second.Generally, I do not read multi-volume works (I want the credit for having read each book after all), but in the case of Davies, it seemed appropriate.
From the moment I first heard of this book, I thought of The Deptford Trilogy as one complete novel.
As David is just a priggish bore, however, The Manticore lacks the drive of the first novel.World of Wonders returns the narrative to Ramsay, but as a channel through which Paul Dempster tells his story.
In the first book, Fifth Business, Davies introduces us to Dunstan Ramsey and his "lifelong friend and enemy, Percy Boyd Staunton," both aged 10.
The snowball, the stone, the deformed baby christened Paul Dempster--this is the secret guilt that will bind Ramsey and Staunton together through their long lives:I was perfectly sure, you see, that the birth of Paul Dempster, so small, so feeble, and troublesome, was my fault.
This novel tells the life story of the unfortunate boy introduced in The Fifth Business, who was spirited away from his Canadian home by one of the members of a traveling side show, the Wanless World of Wonders.
I had read all of Robertson-Davies novels during a 2 year period about a decade or so ago.
Reading Robertson Davies felt like sitting in a room alone with a compassionate and wise uncle who told you stories that touched upon so many important questions a young man has about life.
It was nourishment for the soul as well as a good read.The Deptford Trilogy did not disappoint the second time around either and it felt great to revisit an important book a decade later.
RD puts a great emphasis on the story which, I suppose, is what makes the books a "good read".
The first time I read a book it's an audition.
This time I took it in as a single novel in three parts, and it was much more ambitious and meaningful in that context.It is a book concerned with one of my lifelong fascinations, the way that story, especially myth, and life intertwine and affect one another.
The limitations, levitations, and structural functionality Davies drew from old-fashioned melodrama now remind me of what I draw from the genre fiction of 1850 to 1970, and I regard them with interest and affection.In addition, life experiences allowed me to view almost every major element the story from a more intimate perspective, and it seemed to reflect my own life in an eerie fashion.
But while the trilogy does focus on the inner characters that impel our choices, it also pays great honor to the unknowable in those characters and in the world around them -- the mysteries of our psychology, and of what some of these characters would call fate and others God. Everyone was fully drawn and alive on the page, and Davies's prose crackles like the Swiss mountain air in which much of THE MANTICORE and WORLD OF WONDERS are set.
My favorite remains FIFTH BUSINESS, which combined the focused narrator of the second book with the wide-ranging story of the third, and at less length than either; but all three were wonderfully mind-opening & refreshing to read.A friend on Twitter told me Robertson Davies is "the Gabriel Garcia Marquez of Canada," and that seems right.
A wonderful trilogy."Fifth Business" is another delightful Davies story.
I enjoyed "The Manticore", which is told from David Staunton’s point of view.
It has some overlap with Fifth Business but David’s point of view and makes them complete.
Some of the same characters come back and are seen through David’s eyes, which changes them to the reader’s eye, too, by rounding & fleshing them out.In "World of Wonders", Paul Dempster's account of his life is interesting and, at times, rather long-winded.
Of all of Davies' characters in this trilogy, Paul rose from the deepest depths to the highest pinnacles.
I adore this book.
The characters became to me like people I truly knew, and they are written with such adeptness and acumen that I was half-convinced they were all real and existed somewhere.
The magic of this book lasts a long time after the last page has turned.This book follows four characters over the course of their lives.
It is essentially a character sketch, founded on conversations and bound and bolted by the intersections of their lives with each others'.
This was a second read, part of checking to see how old favorites stand up after the rigors of RWW and "close reading".
I am happy to announce that Robertson Davies stands up very well indeed.
His ability to write an entire book within the POV of a single narrator and carry it off--is astonishing.
The second, The Manticore, isn't quite as engaging, because the narrator isn't a lovable guy.
The last book, World of Wonders, wriggles out of the single POV from time to time, to good effect, but there seemed to be a little authorial fatigue evident.Still--I still love Robertson Davies.
I wasn't enthralled with this trilogy that has to do with big themes of saintliness, illusion, friendship, and betrayal, played out on the little stage of a few people's lives, people who all started out in the tiny Canadian town of Deptford: Dunstan, the bachelor academic; Boy Staunton, the powerful businessman; David, drunken but brilliant lawyer and Boy's son; and Magnus, the world-famous magician. Each book in the trilogy re-examines the same lives from a different point of view. I came away feeling like I was missing something--as if the books were a big inside joke I wasn't in on.
This trilogy deals with secrets that bind the lives of those who share them. The three books are not as linear as the other trilogies: the 3 volumes deal with the same event, the death of a character, seen from various angles. I did find interesting that the art that Robertson Davies chose to pair up the art of magic with themes such as guilt, secrets, depression, insanity and, of course, psychotherapy.
