https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1628627.Amazon_Adventure
Every animal mentioned in the story I know a lot better now.
It's a great adventure, as I mentioned before, and the ending was actually very exciting with quite a few interesting plot twists.
But here's the things this story was missing:1) An emotional side.
It was really hard to actually become worried about any of the dangerous things happening in this story, because it was difficult to be attached to any of the characters.
However the named characters were characterised well, but not quite well enough.
The second thing this novel is missing is 2) Any female characters whatsoever.
The more I read of the book, the more I got into it! It's easy to read, and parts of it are really humorous. The descriptions of the animals and how they acted and moved were really good, some of which I had to Google to see what they looked like. I feel maybe that some of the serious moments in the book were slightly overlooked.I really enjoyed it though, especially the ending. I would never have been able to survive on a 'floating island' like Hal and Roger did!
A number of attempts are made on the boys' lives as they travel downriver, eventually moving from tributaries to the great Amazon river herself.
There's a lot of slapstick (usually at Roger's expense) but also some very grim, very gory vignettes, including the indelible image that burned its way into my young brain...(view spoiler)[the bad guys, who have been chasing the boys through most of the book, step up their pursuit with hijacking, kidnapping, gun fights, which culminates in a narrow escape for the boys and a relentless, days-long chase sequence down the river.
I loved these books as a child. Between the school and public library I probably read all of Willard Price's Adventure books before I reached double digits. Cracking stories full of exciting exploits and natural history facts. So, I was rereading with a little trepidation, worried that the old magic wouldn't be there anymore. However, although it is a little worrying how easily the boys reach for the guns and how distasteful the idea of catching animals to sell to circuses and zoos are, at the core is still an enjoyable read that takes me back to carefree younger times.
I love this series. Although this book isn't my favourite in the series I still enjoy it even though I've read it a few times. Simple but fun and interestingit's also good that you learn some things about the animals and the Amazon (though not all the fact are accurate) and it's always interesting seeing all the different ways they use to catch the animals (and bad guys!)
Written and based at a time where terms like 'animal cruelty' and 'animal conservation' were not fully fledged, Willard Price's Adventures may be a bit much for the sensibilities for some of today's readers, young and less young.
It's been at least 25 years since I last read this and I still remember the vapire bat scene vividly (I had forgotten most of the rest).As usual with this type of adventure story, the luck level that the boys have is turned all the way up to that of Tintin in terms of being able to survive anything that's thrown at them, be it poison arrows, waterfalls, jaguars, army ants and malaria, to name a few.
I'm going to rate all of the Willard Price books as four stars. Not because I think they're all that special (hell, they're basically the works of an eco-terrorism apologist), but because, when I was twelve, they were THE BEST BOOKS I'D EVER READ. I lapped them up. Loved 'em.
possibly read in winter 1967
Therefore their very livelihood depends on the boys' success.Danger lurks at every turn with the gang who destroyed their ranch in hot pursuit, wild animals everywhere and obtrusive natives the boys have to survive on their wits.Mr Hunt promises them a trip to the South Seas if they are successful.These books contain everything for youngsters, thrills, adventure, learning about different animals.I feel this one was quite light, I remember as a youngster liking some of the later adventures more such as Gorilla or Lion adventure.
Summary: This book features two main characters, Hal and Roger.
These two boys set out on an adventure with their father to the Amazon.
Evaluation: I enjoyed reading this book and would recommend it to read to upper grades in elementary school.
Teaching: I could incorporate this book into a science classroom.
We could read the book together throughout the course of a unit and discuss different environmental features we think were present during the boy's adventure to the Amazon.
We could also discuss the animals discussed in the books and do more research on them when discussing life science.
The bothers are Hal and Robert who are the main characters who have sent off on an adventure in the amazon jungle where they meet animals to capture and give them to zoos around the world.
The fist animal they encounter is a vampire bat which was sucking Roberts’s blood.
They dint know what it was at first then they released that it was a vampire bat and they captured it.
The funniest part was when they encountered a basilisk lizard and guess what they thought it was a ghost.
Using the word dated doesn't seem appropriate for this book.The zoological knowledge is all still relevant and that's one of the great things about a book like this - that you can actually learn something while being entertained. Also, capturing creatures and putting them in zoos is still a valid pursuit - it's just called conservation.Also there's a hint of MacGyver - it was fun to see what Hal did on the floating island to make deal with water/food/fire.The storytelling could be a bit better but that's about the only mild negative.Recommended
Action, adventure, survival, environment, conservation...I loved these books when I was a kid. At the time, they seemed to border on sci-fi regarding the at-the-time-amazing technology the boys used.Of course, looking back you can see how these stories are flawed, but I still think they are enjoyable. In fact, it would make for a really interesting middle school science project for children to read one of these books and then compare them with the knowledge of the world and technology we have today.
I bought this for my oldest daughter as I loved reading these books when I was a youngster. Now I’m living in a completely different part of the world in a completely different age - the nostalgia was strong but hell there’s some politically incorrect stuff happening in this book! My daughter sadly quietly hid the book and read her David Walliams.
It was a good adventure. There was some unnecessary killing of animals in it and also a guy called Aqua who was killed by an anaconda which was sad.
Fascinating and educational. One of the books i will never forger. One of the most enjoyed books
Couldn't get enough of these books as a boy. And will enjoy giving them to my kids to read soon...
But there were still too many things that irritated, or annoyed me, that I can only really say that it was an O.K read - even taking into account that it was written decades ago, and is now probably very outdated.Though I suppose it could also be argued that it was written well enough that the characters or their actions were able to irritate me.It definitely has a certain amount of educational merit (geographical, zoological etc), but at best it highlighted the worst of human nature, our inability to leave well enough alone our utter belief that WE are in the right and the astounding ability to destroy.
I read this book years ago, when I was a child.
Memories of the adventures in this book, in particular a spitting cobra, and the friendship between these brothers (Hal and Roger), made me want to google to see if I could find the author and title of this book again.
I could only remember that it took place in the Amazon jungle, that one of the brothers was called Hal, and the Spitting Cobra incident!
I can't wait to revisit the jungle and embark on the adventure of a lifetime, all over again.
This book is a very informative adventure, a mixture of nature-documentary and boyish fun. Unfortunately, when I say boyish, I mean there are no women in this story, and you will learn of a new adverb: "manfully". The racism toward Indians and the callous dismissal / gloss-over of serious tragedies toward humans and animals were pretty offensive, and I couldn't really get past that. That said, the research and information packed into a story for kids is pretty impressive, and if the other aspects weren't so offensive I would recommend this to young readers.
A 1001 CBYMRBYGU.Two boys, Roger and Hal, travel with their father down the Amazon in search of creatures for zoos. They fight cannibalistic Indians, piranhas, crocodiles, and even an angry anteater. This is an adventure book filled with excitement and drama and scares. There are any number of not-so-politically-correct moments and, as a parent, Roger got on my last nerve, but I loved reading this book.
When I read the Adventure series when I was in middle school, I decided I wanted to be a naturalist, just like Hal and Roger Hunt, lol. In the intervening years, I've changed my career path, but I a lot of my eclectic knowledge about animals (or curare) still comes from Willard Price's books:)I found this series again, boxed up in the attic, and decided to do a reread:) I'm glad I did. Although I can now tell it's pretty dated, I still completely enjoyed Hal and Roger's adventures:) 3.5*
An adventure story about some hunters collecting animals to sell to zoos. A lot of animals dying and references to "indians" which can be annoying and shows how old the stories are, but there is still quite a bit of information about animals which is interesting to read. I have got other books in the series which I also intend to read.
Remember reading some of this series as a child and loving them, so I thought I would take a memory trip. Reading it now I was a bit shocked by the outdated ideas, I nearly feel as if all the problems facing the Amazon rainforests were caused by this book alone. However, if suspending belief and overlooking the outdated ideas (and unnecessary carnage) it does make for an exciting read.
I read all of the books in this series when I was a youngster in the 1970s, but the only ones I can really recall are this one and one another - Lion Adventure. Great adventure stories for about the 12-14 age group, but very dated now.
Saw this at the library the other day and it evoked plenty of childhood memories, as this was my favourite series when I was a kid. Whilst not quite as exciting as back then it still provided a good read and would highly recommend to all youngsters!!
The Hal and Rodger Hunt adventure books were by far my favourite novels as a child. They were exhilarating and played well into my love of wildlife and sense fo adventure. Probably one of the key reasons I have ended up with a career in ecology!
One of the best in the Adventure series. The action in the Amazon jungle is consistently gripping, but also has the merit of being relatively plausible. Highly recommended.
good
sometimes books one reads as a child do not hold up.
