https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2430967.Michigan_Murders
Such is the grisly manner of the murders, the reality doesn't set it until the long and somewhat drab trial proceedings; unfortunately this part did take something away from what is a well written book.Each chapter gives ample time to the procedural aspects of the investigation as well as ensuring the victims' untimely murder is depicted in sufficient detail; a well rounded and written account is achieved.My rating: 4/5 stars, if you're into true crime, I recommend checking this one out.This review first appeared on my blog:http://justaguywholikes2read.blogspot...
This book is about several vicious murders that took place in Ypsilanti, Michigan USA, in the 1960s.
These murders were commonly called The Co-ed Murders, 'cause all the girls were university students.
The author used pseudonyms for the killer, and the murdered girls, which I didn't really care for, but it was before the internet, and he was sincerely trying to shield the families.
Of course, this was also before DNA, and all the newer whiz-bang forensic tools that we have now.They were horrific crimes ...
violent and sexually deviant.
So sad.
My heart goes out to the families.
However, after doing a little bit of research (not hard to do when you attend EMU as they have archives dating back to the first murder), I learned that Keyes omitted important details, and was a bit too respectful to the victims at times.
As it was, the Michigan State Police transferred the uncle to a different post in a different town within a month of the nephew's arrest.
In the latest edition of this book, there is an update on one of the victims and the subsequent arrest of Gary Leiterman based on DNA evidence.
Do not know what the reason for this was.Spoiler and photos Coming up!The killer's real name is: John Norman Collins and if you google this you will find pictures and even videos.(Photo 2 taken from fornology.blogspot.com) He was a very handsome young guy but a crazy one.
I wondered why I'd never heard of this serial killer but then I discovered they only nailed him to one murder so that is the reason why.
Very interesting story but I would love to have a confession of course.
here is a video: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G779Uw...Updated on May 09 2016 to add 2 photo's
This book is the account of a series of murders that took place in Michigan in the late 60's.
All the seven victims were female students viciously tortured and mutilated prior to their deaths.
The killer, John Norman Collins, was a handsome young man with a promising future and sadistic tendencies.
I found The Michigan Muders a real pager turner; it is well written and researched.
I would probably have given this book five stars if the author had analysed the killer's motives more thoroughly.
It still is a very good crime book and I'd recommend it to other true-crime buffs like myself.
Although the word gets bandied around far too freely, this does actually deserved to be called a classic.About the abominable John Norman Collins, this book, first published in 1976, is a painstaking examination of the eight murders he was then believed to have committed.
But Keyes doesn't demonize him; he points out the strange contradictions in Collins' character: polite, gentle, deeply affectionate with family members he loved, great with children--and savagely misogynistic at certain triggers (aside from the expected promiscuity, Collins also lost his shit over pierced ears and menstruation), plus showing a sociopath's disdain for the social contract and other people's needs.Keyes chose to give pseudonyms to both murderer and victims, which is a decision I'm ambivalent about.
"True crime at its terrifying best"?
Googling) anything about this case until I finished the book, and so I was surprised to learn that the author had changed the names of all the victims and even the name of the killer (really John Norman Collins), and I'm not sure how I feel about any of that.
But I can say that I was completely gripped by about the first 75% of the book, while the killings were happening and the police efforts narrowed into a manhunt.
(Although--really, I guess it did make me wonder how crimes were ever solved with any degree of certainty prior to DNA testing, etc.)Anyone have more recommendations in the genre of true crime?
The Michigan Murders captured national attention in the late 1960s......seven young women,mostly students at Eastern Michigan University and the University of Michigan were murdered in particularly horrific crimes, violent and sexually deviant but in the 21st century this killing spree has largely been forgotten in the wake of the Green River Killer, Ted Bundy, and BTK.
The author, using fictitious names for the victims and the killer, examines each murder and illustrates the sudden realization by the Michigan authorities that they are dealing with a serial killer.
This was before DNA and other forensic advancements, and the police had their work cut out for them since there were very few clues of any kind.
I was a college student in Detroit in the late 60s when John Norman Collins committed several gruesome murders of college co-ends in the Ann Arbor area near Detroit.
I remember very well that the female college were very careful and very scared during the time period that he was killing women.
When I saw this book was available, I decided to read it again to remember that era.
(Thanks to NetGalley for a copy of this book in exchange for a fair and honest review.).
It was interesting to read how the police solved the murders in the day before DNA evidence and to be reminded of life in the 60s.
The murderer lived a block up the street from me when I went to college. This account of the Co-ed Murders, as they were called, reanimates every gruesome and sorted detail from that disturbing era of 1967-1969. Told in a fast moving, true crime fashion, the late Edward Keyes has written one of the most intense and intimate portrayals of a psychopath, venting his misguided hostility on defenseless, young women.
This one has great personal meaning for me -- it's about a string of murders in my hometown that created the agency where I later got my first job as a crime victims' advocate. Well-written history of the chase after and capture of the man who killed six of the seven victims -- and then there was Jane, found killed in a different way and left in a different place, but connected to the others anyway. Gripping even if you've never heard of Ypsilanti, Michigan.

There was a photo of a young woman my age whose body had been discovered (the 6th in a series of such deaths in the Ann Arbor/Ypsilanti area of Michigan.
I remember this whole scary episode of time back in Michigan and was curious to see how this book would portray the murders.
All the victims as well as the convicted murderer were given false names in the book, but the facts were very well done.
This book is well written and I was fascinated on how easy it was for this young man to befriend and make off with these girls.
A run-of-the-mill “True Crime” book on more than 400 pages.In his foreword, Keyes insists that “what follows is true,” but that is only partly correct, just as the described crimes are certainly not “the most barbaric sex crimes of the century,” as the back cover boasts.
Indeed, what we have here is exploitation of the worst – and most engrossing – kind.Written as a novel, the narrator knows every intimate detail of his characters and every action they perform: the written equivalent of a docu-soap.
In this way, it is a fairly exciting read, but it leaves a very bad aftertaste.
This series of murders happened in my hometown, so is something of a local legend. Having worked in prisoner advocacy, I occasionally hear stories of how John Normal Collins is faring in prison. Having read this one multiple times, I have identified many of the locales in this fictionalized version. As far as I know, a factual nonfiction account has never been written (outside many sensational true-crime websites). I bike past the murderer's campus house nearly every day on my way to work.
I usually avoid crime novels and shows, but a prosecutor that I work with recommended this. It details the investigation of a serial killer in the Ann Arbor/Ypsi area in the late 60s. It was fascinating to read about the gruesome things that happened in the places I now know and I love. I currently work with people who are predecessors to the investigators talked about in the book, and couldn't help imagining them in the awful circumstances these professionals found themselves.
Based on a true storyI picked this up thinking it was about the oakland county child killings, but i soon found out it was different (witch is creepy I itself) This is a very scary read... To think it happen in MI during this era. It's a scary thoughtI will be on the look out for more on this subject.. Although it is a frightening thought (murder in your own backyard, your own town) It's very interesting...
I rarely describe non-fiction books as "page turners", but boy, this was a page turner. Keyes weaves a gripping tale of murder in a midwestern town, from the first known victim to the stunning conclusion. If you go into the story knowing nothing of the real case (like me), this book will keep you wondering how it all will end.I'd recommend this to any true crime fan.**I received this copy via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review**
It was an interesting read but kind of dragged in places. For a true crime book, it pretty much followed the pattern of most of these types of books.
The version of this book I read was also the original 1976 release.
In the foreword Mr. Keyes shared his reasoning for changing the name of the victim and the accused.
Based on the families so horrifically impacted by these murders, I can appreciate the changing of their names.
In the original version the simple connection between the accused and the victims was also presented.
It is a book that defines horrific murders of innocent women.
The remaining victims and their families have been left without justice, to me that is unacceptable.
I am usually suspicious of true crime books as many ave terrible writing, use the gory details just for shock value and overall are pretty trashy.
This one however is well written, keeps the mystery alive, does justice to the human toll of the murders and manages to be respectful while also giving details about the brutality of the 7 murders.This case is less known than others as the whole concept of serial murders was just emerging at the time.
But this book was written before the age of the internet, so if it helped the grieving relatives, I guess I can deal with it.
-I’m taking off one star because the author chose to use pseudonyms for the victims’ names and also for the killer’s name.
I’m not sure why that is, because the killer’s identity is widely known by now and I don’t think he deserves the same protection extended to the victims.
These young women had their lives tragically cut short and it feels really inappropriate to me that the author would comment on their appearance and attractiveness.
I don’t need to know if a murder victim had a ''nice figure''.
I mean no disrespect to the families of the slain girls when I say that this book held my interest because it read like a murder mystery novel.
I liked the fact that the author pulled no punches when he pointed out the numerous blunders committed by the police.
Some of the mistakes would have been laughable if it wasn’t for the fact that it is a true story about horrific crimes.
The murderer in this book reminded me of Ted Bundy, a good looking guy operating in the open with no one knowing his true nature.
Recommended reading for true crime enthusiasts.
เปนหนังสือทีรวบรวมขอมูลแวดลอมเกียวกับคดีฆาตกรรมมาไดเยอะมาก อานเนือหาแลวนาติดตาม ทำใหเหนภาพรวมวาตำรวจและอัยการในสมัยนันทำงานกันยังไง รวมถึงเขาใจเรืองการเมืองระหวางตำรวจทองถิน ตำรวจรัฐ และประชาชนไดแบบคราวๆ หนังสือเลมนีไมไดชีนำวาฆาตกรเปนใคร เพียงแตเลาเหตุการณวาเปนมายังไงถึงจับตัวคนนี และศาลตัดสินอยางไร ดวยความหนังสือเลมนีเขียนเมือหลายสิบปีกอนแลว จึงทำใหตองไปหาขอมูลอัพเดตหลังจากนันเองวาเกิดอะไรขึนบาง ทีจริงคิดวาถาหนังสือใสชือจริงของฆาตกรกับผูเสียหายเลยกนาจะได เพราะวาคนไมนานกเจอชือจริงทังหมดของทุกคนแ
เป็นหนังสือที่รวบรวมข้อมูลแวดล้อมเกี่ยวกับคดีฆาตกรรมมาได้เยอะมาก อ่านเนื้อหาแล้วน่าติดตาม ทำให้เห็นภาพรวมว่าตำรวจและอัยการในสมัยนั้นทำงานกันยังไง รวมถึงเข้าใจเรื่องการเมืองระหว่างตำรวจท้องถิ่น ตำรวจรัฐ และประชาชนได้แบบคร่าวๆ หนังสือเล่มนี้ไม่ได้ชี้นำว่าฆาตกรเป็นใคร เพียงแต่เล่าเหตุการณ์ว่าเป็นมายังไงถึงจับตัวคนนี้ และศาลตัดสินอย่างไร ด้วยความหนังสือเล่มนี้เขียนเมื่อหลายสิบปีก่อนแล้ว จึงทำให้ต้องไปหาข้อมูลอัพเดตหลังจากนั้นเองว่าเกิดอะไรขึ้นบ้าง ที่จริงคิดว่าถ้าหนังสือใส่ชื่อจริงของฆาตกรกับผู้เสียหายเลยก็น่าจะได้ เพราะว่าค้นไม่นานก็เจอชื่อจริงทั้งหมดของทุกคนแล้ว แต่อาจเพราะหนังสือเล่มนี้ตีพิมพ์ไม่ห่างจากการเกิดคดีฆาตกรรมมากนัก จึงทำให้ผู้เขียนต้องการปิดบังชื่อแต่ละคนไว้เพื่อให้เป็นส่วนตัว แล้วสมัยก่อนยังไม่มีอินเตอร์เนทด้วย ค้นหาอะไรก็ต้องใช้ความพยายามกว่า
I lived in Michigan during these murdersI was 16 years old when the first girl died, living about an hour away from Ann Arbor\Ypsilanti.
The next year proceeded as the deaths piled up.
Would I apply to The University of Michigan for my undergraduate degree?
Happily for me John Norman Collins was captured and sent to prison just before I started as a freshman at U of M.
My boyfriend went to Eastern Michigan University.
He said that the guys on EMUs football team would laugh and mock "be a Thet, stab your date".
This was a terribly frightful time for young women on Southeastern Michigan.
The momentum of the story was like watching a television telling.
The author spun the tale and laid out the facts like a lawyer in front of his jury.
No doubt was left as to the guilty party and still the gathering of facts and suspicion were presented like building blocks.
It was hard to put thebook down and attend to household duties.
I do not remember the national attention as I was attending college at the time in a small Maryland school but I can imagine the terror felt on the Michigan campuses as a killer seemed to stalk the coeds.
I was at Eastern at the time of these murders.
The thing I don't understand about this book is why the author didn't use the real names of the people.
The book would have been better with the correct names.
This is the story of a man who seemed to be the "All American Boy," but he was a thief and sadistic killer.
He was only tried for one of the murders.
This was a man who had one face for most people and an evil part he keep guarded.
This is an interesting book.

I'm a bit bothered by the changing of names and the narration that was added which is obviously fiction.
It is determined to paint the cases as the actions of a single murderer, but after the fact, the second victim has been shown to be killed by someone else through DNA analysis.But, if I remove the fact that it's "True Crime," I actually like the style and found it very interesting.
But it's a dramatization.Side note, I didn't know before I started this book the location of the murders.
Imagine my surprise when all the place names were so familiar as I am a Washtenaw / Ypsi resident.
Meticulously researched, but not glacially paced; unsensationalized, with a decent authorial voice; gripping, particularly before the trial starts. But this lacks the sense of purpose that I look for in my non-fiction-about-death book selections--there's some closure, but no strong summary arguments about the nature of the crimes or the society that surrounded them. Perhaps all that indicates is that most true crime isn't for me; in other ways, this is perfectly adequate.
