https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16788.Fragile_Things
This book is a mixed bag of short stories and poems.
In the Harry Potter books, there is a kind of sweet called Bertie Potts Every Flavour Jelly Beans.
Sometimes you get something yummy like Raspberry Cream Chocolate or Honey Lemon Lime with a hint of Ginger or Vodka Tonic with Mentholated Cigarette Chaser.
Other times you get Snot or Cat's Vomit.
This book was like that.
There are some gems here, but far far too few to justify a collection.
Next time, could you wait till you have decent set before putting a collection out?
Here’s what the introduction says about Fragile Things:  “It seemed like a fine title for a book of short stories. There are so many fragile things, after all. People break so easily, and so do dreams and hearts.”  It all feels like a desperate attempt to release a collection of unrelated stories into the world. They are all very unique and individual with a title that could be applied to a number of different short story books instead of this one. So the book that has been sold to us feels like
“It seemed like a fine title for a book of short stories.
It all feels like a desperate attempt to release a collection of unrelated stories into the world.
They are all very unique and individual with a title that could be applied to a number of different short story books instead of this one.
So the book that has been sold to us feels like a very different thing to the one I read.
This is worth reading if you’re already a big fan of his, but if you’re looking for really a decent collection of short stories I can think of much better places to look.
All of the signature excellence with which Gaiman has rightly built his widespread fan-base is present to prove that he is equally wonderful with his short game as he is in novel form and to tell stories which will send shivers down the spines of readers of all ages.There is a vigorous charm about the writing.
He puts the stories into the context of his own life, which makes them seem all the more personal.Storytelling is of major importance to Neil Gaiman.
I love Neil Gaiman. He is brilliant, imaginative, and abso-friggin-lutely weird, and I love him for it. And this book of short stories and prose,  Fragile Things , is by far my most favorite compendium of his. Fragile Things is a collection of oddities, retellings, poetry, spin-offs, and queer creations of Neil Gaiman's colorful imagination. Some of the stories have been published elsewhere, like Sunbird and  October In The Chair , which were included in his   M Is For Magic   compilation, and s
There were award-winning stories here, too, such as A Study In Emerald which won the Hugo Award for Best Short Story and Sunbird, which received for its author the Locus Award.The book also included, at the very last part, a novella published two years after 
(I asked my husband, who has read it, okay.)I had a difficult time picking a favorite story from Fragile Things, because I loved everything!
If you've read the series, you'll remember that Susan was no longer included in the last books, as she had taken to fancy things and such, and was no longer “fit” to return to Narnia.
Look at the surprise that just landed on my doorstep!
It also includes some 30 other short stories and poems by Neil Gaiman.
From Gaiman's Introduction:"I think ...
that I would rather recollect a life mis-spent on fragile things than spent avoiding moral debt." The words turned up in a dream and I wrote them down upon waking, uncertain what they meant or to whom they applied.
It seemed like a fine title for a book of short stories.
There are so many fragile things, after all.
People break so easily, and so do dreams and hearts.
It seems wrong and somewhat sad that my favorite Gaiman book is not one of his many heralded novels, but a collection of short stories.
Mind you, Fragile Things is a great collection of short stories!
Don't get me wrong, I enjoy the fantastical stuff with its focus on the magic of youth and mystery of the unknown.
But I think I prefer his short story work because it seems more well-crafted and honed to a higher perfection than some of his full length novels, which feel a bit loose at times.
In summation, here is my newspaper book review title for this: "Gaiman's Fragile Things Is Strong Stuff"....*shakes head*....horrible...horrible.
I didn't like all the short stories, for example, “How do you think it feels?”, “Keepsakes and Treasures”, “The problem with Susan”–(view spoiler)[it's an unsettling story about Susan's fate and a witch ends up having sex with a lion (?); I haven't read that Lewis book yet and I already know that Susan isn't going to Narnia!
He seems to be the kind of writer that can save an average story with just an amazing line that describes the way you might be feeling at that time.
The Mapmaker – originally written for American Gods, this short story is a cautionary tale about disregarding the needs of others while chasing ones desires and chasing immortality by keeping records a.k.a that map (3 stars)A Study in Emerald – goodreads.com/review/show/1321098517 (3 stars)The Fairy Reel – a short lyric poem about the foolishness of not risking your heart (3 stars)October in the Chair – runaway boy finds a ghost (4 stars)The Hidden Chamber – gothic poem about Bluebeard (3 stars)Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire – Gaiman makes fun of the kind of reader I was at 14.
A group of short stories by the brilliant Neil Gaiman. Some are very short some are longer but all of them are wonderful!
(view spoiler)[I think his story was set in a macabre fantasy horror world with the author trying to write 'real life' fiction.
I think that Lewis merely phrased this concept awkwardly, in a way that makes it easy to see it as a sexist dig at Susan not being able to go to Narnia because she discovered boys and lipstick.
I think Neil Gaiman's own personal ideology causes him to spite the religious message in the Narnia books and that it was rather apparent in his (I thought it was vulgar) portrayal of the witch and lion.ConclusionOn the whole most of the stories worked and the poems additionally added an extra level to this collection.
I have not read Neil Gaiman's novels but I've heard good things about them.
This collection is obviously not a good place to start reading his work.
The short story is unforgiving; you don't have time for slow bits, or parts that sound like you've read them already somewhere before.
It's just not different or new or clever enough.Despite my overall disappointment, there were some things I liked, especially the science fictiony "Goliath" (inspired by the Matrix movies) and "How to Talk to Girls at Parties".
The American Gods novella, "Monarch of the Glen", also had some good parts, which leads me to believe that the novels really must be far better.
But this is a mostly almost-horror collection of short story ideas rendered in a not particularly clever way, and I often had the feeling I was reading bits and pieces of autobiography tucked into larger tales.
'The Problem of Susan' is better left unread if one wants to have any positive re-reads of The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe; although I found the Susan story an interesting idea, Gaiman manages to twist it up with a kinky sexual element that benefits no one.
Bliss," and then I got bored.I made it all the way to the last disc and then kind of fast-forwarded to the end, skipping giant parts, leaving huge swaths of un-listened-to prose behind me.It just didn't scratch the itch I'd expected to have relieved, which is tragic (for me)Don't worry, I'm not losing the 1/4 soul I own (my mother told me my siblings and I share one soul between us because there aren't enough souls to go around anymore, due to our living too long and the lower infant mortality rate, etc.
I really want to see what's inside Neil Gaiman head !! It must be a very strange place , a place where I doubt would want to be !! These stories are creepy, horrifying , disturbing, shocking and freaked me out , and I loved them , if it wouldn't for a story or two which were way more creepy for my liking - like the one with the man who likes young girls , this particular story was very disturbing to me - I would've gave this collection five stars.

And so when I read the stories in this book, they give me a little thrill, because I don't expect the vulgar and the so-very-adult-ness of some of these stories.
Doesn't let me get too comfortable in Neil's work, because there's such a huge range of it that you never know which way he'll go next.
I don't know if I want to talk about the stories individually, except to say that I don't think there's any that I actively dislike, though I'd have to say that Harlequin Valentine is probably my least favorite.
But I do want to say that one thing I love about almost the entire collection is the interpretability of the stories.
Neil Gaiman is amazing and this collection is proof.
There are some stories in here that are so good, that I wanted to immediately go back and read them again as soon as I finished.
For example:"A Study in Emerald" "October in the Chair" "Other People""Bitter Grounds""Keepsakes and Treasures""Harlequin Valentine""Sunbird" and "Monarch of the Glen." The rest of the stories all have something interesting to say as well, and each is written in Gaiman's unique style.
I even liked some of the poems included, though this was the weakest part of the collection.
I guess you could say I loved this.
6.0 stars. On my list of All Time Favorite books. Chilling, funny, scary, sad, imaginitive, original, disturbing AND ABSOLUTELY BRILLIANT!!!!
4.5 stars, really.What a delightful collection of Gaiman's short stories!
It very nearly got a full 5-stars, but I honestly have a hard time giving that rating to a collection of short stories.
Certainly not like I was grabbed by American Gods, Neverwhere, or the Preludes and Nocturnes (Sandman) series.
This was a nice teaser, making me want a new American Gods novel now.
Though there really wasn't a bad one in the lot.Yes, it's definitely time for a new American Gods novel, and another story collection while you're at it, Mr. Gaiman.
For me, the highlight of this collection of short stories and poems was the novella "Monarch of the Glen" that featured Shadow from "American Gods" re-interpreting the Beowulf legend.
I thought the poetry throughout the collection was very good too.
Let's just say that he learns to talk to girls, but they're the wrong kind of girls.All in all, I think "Fragile Things" is a good choice if you don't really have the attention span to devote to a novel at a given time and you just want some light reading that can be read in short spurts.
As with previous collections of short pieces by Gaiman, I found this extremely variable in quality: Anything referred to as "poetry" is execrable, as are all the "stories" that are extremely short and fail to follow any normal narrative structure. On the other hand, the pieces that follow some kind of conventional method are all at least OK and in some cases delightful. Stand-out entries are A Study in Emerald and How to Talk to Girls at Parties.
"The Fairy Reel" (4.5 stars)- I liked the poem and it did have me imagining a young man out in the woods calling to a fairy."October in the Chair" (5 stars)-This was a great story involving the months as we know them coming to life and telling stories.
"Closing Time" (4.5 stars)- This story was a little weird, but in the end I liked it well enough.
So I don't know what the man in the story met as a young boy.
He comes across some things that should not be real and also the characters Mr. Alice and Mr. Smith from a previous story in this collection.
"The Mapmaker" 3 stars"A Study in Emerald" 4 stars"The Fairy Reel" 2 stars"October in the Chair" 4 s
2* "The Fairy Reel" – can't confess to enjoying Gaiman's poetry here.4* "October in the Chair" – a ghost story involving a runaway boy.
2* "The Hidden Chamber" – fantasy poetry...and this one about the folktale "Blue Beard" - just not my cup of tea.3.5* "Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire" – With a title this long, the story has to be strong.
The long title made for an average story this time around.
Wonderful!I think if Gaiman had culled the poetry and a few of the vignette type stories, this would have been 4* or higher, so I am recommending it for the stories that stand out.
It's been my experience that authors who read their own stories as audiobooks are generally not the best.
While it's true that they know their characters and their stories, many of them just don't have the voice or talent for oral storytelling.
That's not to say that the author isn't a storyteller - obviously they are, often they just shouldn't do it orally.
Neil Gaiman, thankfully, is a natural oral storyteller.
I don't think of Gaiman as a YA author, but even so, I didn't expect the themes and details of the stories in this collection to be so jaded or brutal.
Me + Neil Gaiman + short stories = perfect fit. Yay!***I didn't like American Gods, but I love The Graveyard Book. Now, I am trying another Gaiman book to tip him in my favor (I hope). Ha! Thanks for the reco, friend =)
There were three stories and one poem that I actually quite liked, but other than that this particular collection really didn't work for me, mostly because I feel as if Gaiman is particularly weak in crafting distinctive narrators (especially when writing in first person) which is fine in a novel, but tends to make for some samey short story reading.
Gaiman's poetry left me colder than his short stories, but I did find "The Day The Saucers Came" to be clever and cute and, moreover, rather meaningful.Regardless of the merit of the individual stories, Fragile Things as a collection is flawed; the stories feel too similar and taken in quick succession becomes a study in quirkiness rather than good writing.
Algunos relatos merecen mucho la pena, como la continuación de American Gods o el primer borrador de The Graveyard Book. Otros te los puedes saltar tranquilamente. La verdadera joya es la introducción en la que Gaiman va explicando cada relato y muestra un poco su forma de trabajar.
1. The Mapmaker ★★★ - A short story originally intended to go in American Gods.2.
Forbidden Brides of the Faceless Slaves in the Secret House of the Night of Dread Desire ★★★ - A short story with a gothic feel.7.
The Flints of Memory Lane ★★★ - A short story about ghosts.
Keepsakes and Treasures ★★★ - A short story with characters that also appear in The Monarch of the Glen.13.
★★★ - A short story inspired by gargoyles.
My Life ★★★ - A short story about an odd life.
In the End ★★★ - A short story about an imagined last book of the Bible.
Práve týmto vo mne priemerné (aj keď krásne napísané) poviedky vyvolali veľmi zvláštny pocit osudovosti až mystiky, ktorý mi zostáva aj niekoľko týždňov po prečítaní.Poviedky, ktoré si z nejakého dôvodu pamätámJiní lidé 4,5*- Príbeh samotný nie je nijako zvlášť originálny.
Vlastne, pri jeho čítaní asi budete mať pocit, že ste ho už určite niekde počuli.
A budete mať pravdu.
Priveľa Tieňa, primálo Stredy.Studie v Smaragdové 4*- Sherlock Holmes naruby a lovecraftovský bonusZáškrt tvurce nemocí 5* - To že ste hypochonder ešte neznamená, že vám nič nie jeHarlekýnsky Valentýn 3* - Ako všetky vnútornosti, aj zlomené srdce je výborný zdroj železaKniha okrem toho obsahuje aj niekoľko básní, ktoré považujem za viac alebo menej strašné (aspoň v preklade) okrem básneDen, kdy přiletěly talíře 5* - pretože je o mne a pretože viac lietajúcich tanierov do ľúbostnej poézie!
