https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/773606.Madeline_s_Rescue
I've only read 3 Madeline books but this is definitely the best of them. The focus is on some drama surrounding a very sweet dog they name Genevieve.There is one really bad moment where someone named Lord Cucuface says something racist about the dog, possibly just because "of uncertain race" rhymes with Cucuface.Miss Clavel shines here, taking care of the girls' needs ahead of the commands of the out of touch trustees.
This is the kind of book that has rythem and that you want to sing all the way threw...
One day a few inspectors came to the orphanage to do an inspection and discovered the sweet little puppy they of course threw the dog out and Madeline and her companions had no choice but to go and find Geniveeve...
The story in all gets three stars for the effort and tremendous rythem that is kept threw out the book.
Guys i am really sorry that this review is crummy i would usually go into more detail.
Revisited an old favourite. Madeline falls into the Seine and is rescued by a stray dog. They name the dog Genevieve and take the dog home to live with them but this leads to squabbling about who gets to have the dog on their beds that night. Rather than draw up a rota Genevieve has a solution to this problem.All the usual lovely, animated illustrations, humour, kindness and funny rhyming. Still as enjoyable as years ago.
Awwww....this one is cute! ^_^
Regrettably, I've never been a huge Madeline fan. Madeline's Rescue certainly has some charm, but I just wasn't wowed by it. The rhymes felt awkward to me at times and, while I can appreciate them, the illustrations simply don't resonate with me. Obviously, Madeline has a huge following so I have tried to content myself with simply "not getting it" all these years. I guess I shall have to continue to do with this Caldecott-winning installment of her adventures.
Far far better than the first book!3.5 stars!
Madline and her eleven school mates continue to live with Miss Clavel, where every day, rain or shine, they line up in twos and walk out into the city. This time Madeline falls into the river, and is rescued by a dog, whom the girls name Genevieve and take back to the school to live with them.Charming story. Bright, colorful, humorous drawings. There’s a reason these books have remained popular for generations of children. It didn’t really appeal to me very much, but I can certainly see how young girls, in particular, would love Madeline and her escapades.
Cute little book about a new friend.
:PWhen it comes to the Madeline series I believe if you are a fan of the books or the television show, I highly recommend reading the entire series back-to-back because it is both entertaining and if you prolonged reading the series then the magic from the first book makes the other books to be subpar and bland.In this book we meet Madeline again with his fellow classmates as they are exploring the city of Paris until one day she falls of the bridge and almost drowned.
“Madeline’s Rescue” is another classic “Madeline” story from Ludwig Bemelmans and has won the Caldecott Medal Award.
“Madeline’s Rescue” is the most warm-hearted book out of all the “Madeline” series and it details the adventures of Madeline after she is rescued by a dog, which the dog eventually becomes apart of the family.
Ludwig Bemelmans has done it again in detailing Madeline’s most emotional adventure yet… adopting a stray dog for the family.
Remember how in my review of Madeline I mentioned a song – a song that I remembered from my childhood.
The page where all of the little girls are fighting over where Genevieve will sleep for the night and Miss Clavel senses that all is not right…:)And thence ensues delightful doses of mayhem and panic.
But when the school’s board of trustees objects to Genevieve’s presence in the school and turn her loose, the little girls fear that they will never see Genevieve again!“Oh, Genevieve…”Conclusion.
I like Madeline’s Rescue better than the original Madeline story.Visit The Blithering Bookster to read more reviews!www.blitheringbookster.com
When an obliging canine comes to her aid, fishing her out of the water, Madeline and her classmates (as well as their teacher, Miss Clavel) adopt the dog and name her Genevieve.
With lines like: "From now on, I hope you will listen to me, / And here is a cup of camomile tea," or "The dog loved biscuits, milk and beef / And they named it Genevieve," it just didn't read that well.
Perhaps I would have loved Madeline, rather than just liking her, if I'd first met her as a girl myself...?
One of the few Caldecott winners that I actually read quite a bit as a child.
It has an illustration style that you really cannot mistake for any other book.
While I was never a huge Madeline fan, I did like this one because it featured a dog.
As an adult, it's easy to see why this won a Caldecott.
The illustrations aren't really pretty so much as they are striking.
I remember arguing with my siblings about whether it was a school or an orphanage, whether the dog was brown or white and whether Madeline's hair was brown/red/blonde.
These illustrations were hotly discussed amongst us.
All Madeline books are five stars.
I don't see the appeal of Madeline, but son did. Or rather he liked Genevieve the dog. So for that, 3 stars. The art is fine, but I prefer a number of other Caldecott winners to this book.
At 17 months, she's obviously much too young to comprehend Bemelmans' dark side, but it's there again, though expressed with a lighter touch than in "Madeline and the Bad Hat." Madeline's fall from a bridge provides the best example:[Madeline] knew so wellHow to frighten Ms. Clavel -Until the day she slipped and fell.Poor Madeline would now be deadBut for a dog that kept it's head,And dragged her safe from a watery grave.Maybe I need to start preparing my dad-to-daughter talk about death sooner than I'd anticipated.Again, the drawings are fantastic.
Like many young readers, I enjoyed the rhyming text, the pages with one or two lines, the color-drenched illustrations filled with scenes depicting the city's landmarks, the surprise at the end, and poor Miss Clavel's attempts to get some sleep.
The last two pages are marvelously understated, and the endpapers are wonderfully filled with light and carefully chosen colors.
Readers will want to pay careful attention to the colors used within the story since some rely on one color against a white background and others are filled with many different colors in light and dark tones and tints that fill the pages completely.
The whole school is full of girls who follow the rules and listen to Miss Clavel but Madeline is a daredevil always breaking the rules and playing pranks on her teacher.
One day Miss Clavel takes the young girls for a walk and Madeline doesn't listen to Miss Clavel’s instructions and ends up falling into a river and nearly drowns.
The other girls in the school also end up liking the dog and they all fight to look after Genevieve.
Children love reading stories like this as it makes it more fun and interesting.
Madeline vows vengeance, and the girls scour Paris looking for the pup: "They went looking high / and low / And every place a dog might go.
/ In every place they called her name / But no one answered to the same." As we've come to expect from Bemelmans, all's well that ends well chez Clavel, and young readers will be tickled by this heartwarming, quirky dog story with a surprise finale.REVIEW: I love Madeline and read it often when I was teaching first grade.
The story line was good and I am sure that children would enjoy the surprise ending.
This book is about a young group of girls.
In that group is a girl named Madeline.
Grade level: K-3Appropriate classroom use: This is a good book to have the kids point out what words rhyme.
students who benefit: Students who could use practice on rhyming or practice broadening their vocabulary and pronouncing words.
Small group use: As a teacher I could do literature circles or learning stations.
Whole class use: I would read this book aloud and circle the words kids have a problem with reading or saying.
Oh, I loved this book (and the whole Madeline series) when I was little.
These books were probably the start of my lifelong love of all things French.
Looking at this book from the perspective of taking a class about the Caldecott Medal, I'm examining the illustrations more closely than I would have as a child.
The images alternate between minimalist, abstract sketches and highly-detailed paintings depicting scenes of Paris.
It's remarkable how Bemelmans effectively creates the feeling of a full-fledged, detailed illustration from so few lines.
Bemelmans brings to life characters and settings so expertly.
Including the end papers, there are nine full color watercolor paintings of various famous Paris locales. The remaining illustrations are black and white cartoon drawings on a yellow background. The pictures are very good at depicting movement, energy, and the action of the story. While this is not my favorite style of illustration, Bemelmans' illustrations fit extremely well with the story. (Caldecott Award, 1954)
I had a stuffed dog named Genevieve after this book when I was young.
Prepping a preschool story time with an Around the World theme and read this gem I haven't read since elementary school. Still entertaining with beautiful illustrations.
I read all the Madeline books when I was a kid, and liked them, and still have them.
The artwork, which appears to be a combination of water color paintings and ink drawings, also plays a big role in understanding the book because it both demonstrates and complicates the specific text on each page and can be easily understood by children.
The realistic illustrations that depict historic scenes of Paris all seem to be done in detailed watercolor, while the more cartoon-like illustrations all seem to focus on depicting Madeline, Miss Clavel and the other school girls.
The style of the story seems somewhat impressionistic, allowing the yellow pages to portray a happy mood for the reader.
Bemelmans most likely did this to partner with the story where the search for the dog is a difficult one.
By creating this page very intense and different form the others, in a way, this allows readers a chance to experience the difficult search.
Something about Bemelmans’ overall illustration style that I gathered is that it is okay to have simple pictures.
As many critics and reviewers note, Bemelmans allows readers a chance to experience Paris through his story-telling of Madeline.
Madeline’s Rescue is a Caldecott award winning book that is a sequel to the well-known book Madeline. This story is about Madeline who is going to a boarding school in Paris with Miss.Calvel as her teacher. One day while outside Madeline falls into a river from a bridge. She would not have made it out alive if it wasn’t for a dog who saved her. Miss.Clavel let the girls keep the dog at the boarding school. All the girls enjoyed the dogs company and named her Genevieve. A collection of trustees
This story is about Madeline who is going to a boarding school in Paris with Miss.Calvel as her teacher.
Miss.Clavel let the girls keep the dog at the boarding school.
All the girls enjoyed the dogs company and named her Genevieve.
The main characters in this story are Madeline, Miss.Clavel, and Genevieve.
I really enjoyed the illustrations when the girls and Miss.Clavel were searching for Genevieve.
I enjoyed how the author created the character Madeline as someone who was energetic, did things outside the box, and was different than the other girls at the school.
As Genevieve settles into her new family, Lord Cucuface catches sight of the dog and throws her out, and the girls begin their search for their beloved dog.CRITICAL REVIEWMadeline does much to appeal to its young readers, with its simple yet complex illustration, its catchy rhymes, and its joyful, bright settings.
After Madeline is rescued by Genevieve, the text follows: “From now on, I hope you will listen to meAnd here is a cup of chamomile tea.” But the accompanying illustration shows what the text doesn’t describe, which is Genevieve following the girls and making her new home.
Madeline’s Rescue is about a little girl at school in Paris, who falls into the river on one of their daily walks.
Madeline is rescued by a dog, who the girls soon take in and name Genevieve.
I absolutely love Paris, and I honestly think that my love for it stemmed from this book.
While I do love the original Madeline, Madeline’s Rescue is more heartfelt and warming to me, and I love the dog, Genevieve.
Teachers could ask questions such as “what would you do if you couldn’t find your dog like Madeline couldn’t find Genevieve?” Overall, I would definitely use this book in my classroom, because I think it is a fun classic that many would enjoy.
