https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/617383.Bent
Wow.
Well! This utterly destroyed me, and I only read the transcript. How did humans who saw this play survive?? I’m done, bye world
Enormously PowerfulRevisiting this play is as upsetting and moving as ever. It also talks of gay men as survivors who can and do love--even before the AIDS epidemic hit. It is an important chapter of our legacy. There will always be hate. There will always be survival. There will always be love--as long as we are human.
We all know (as we surely should) how Nazi regime treated Jews.
I didn't know till recently, my visit to Amsterdam where I stumbled upon the Homomonument: three large pink granite triangles that commemorates all gay men and lesbians who have been subjected to persecution because of their homosexuality.So this play is about that: about persecution of (in this case) gay men during Nazi regime.
Main characters even chose to declare himself as a Jew and wear yellow star rather than pink triangle even though he ended in the camp because of his sexuality (he was a German).I'd rather not write about the story itself.
Yes, its possible and Sherman has delivered it.Max and Rudy find love and affection during a time period where being anything other than what they were not expected to be, they were stripped of their humanity.
Homosexuality wasn't just frowned upon but had serious and severe consequences.
Exploring sexuality wasn't just an option but was a crime.
Amidst all this, Max and Rudy live off their convictions, bickering like old married couple all the while wearing a pink triangle that broadcasted their "crime".
Bent, is an ugly reminder of a period in our history.Easily, one of my favorites.
Brilliant and soul shattering.
A magnificent, and sentimental, work surrounding sexuality and love during WWII. Really spectacular is what I will leave it at! And a favorite.
Az önce filmini bitirdim ve... of diyorum...
Usually I read the book and then see the movie.
I remembered that the play was performed on a plain, stark stage and that it focused on two gay men in a Nazi camp, during the Holocaust.
Today, I read the play.
I don't usually read plays on my own, but this one is short and easy to understand.
This play is just one story among many.
It's important as a piece of historical fiction, but even more profound as the beautiful, tender, tragic love story that Martin Sherman created.
The movie is true to Sherman's story.
I don’t think I have ever read a play so quickly; this was moving and gripping
Set amidst the decadence of pre-war fascist Germany, Bent is an emotional tale of love, as three homosexual men fight for survival in the face of persecution.Directed by Sean MathiasProduced by Michael Solinger, Dixie LinderWritten by Martin Sherman (play & screenplay)Starring Clive Owen, Lothaire Bluteau, Brian Webber, Rupert Graves, Ian McKellen, Mick Jagger, Jude LawAs you can imagine, this isn’t the easiest of watches, so don’t get it expecting a comfy watch with the popcorn.
But, and again it's a feeling as old as time, saying the words "I love you" does not come easy...I was involved in a production of this play at university and at the end of every show there was an incredible silence in the theatre, almost tangible - the moment before the lights went up and everyone was torn out of their contemplation into thundering applause.
Knowing that Sherman's play had touched at least our university student audience for the duration of a few hours, and hopefully beyond, will be one of the most memorable experiences of my student theatre career and I believe I made lifelong friends in the process of bringing this story to our little stage.
This classic play was first produced in 1979, and was an important milestone in the public’s awareness of gay issues. It follows the story of a gay man in Nazi Germany – dealing first with social oppression and then with the cruelty of a concentration camp. It’s very powerful.
Affecting, urgent and disturbing x
“When I’m not dreaming about rocks, I’m dreaming about you.”This is a short, tragic play that shocks you and devastates you but is an incredible insight into how quickly peoples lives were uprooted and destroyed during the Holocaust perhaps before they even had the chance to understand. That being said, it’s incredibly relevant and I think a revival would be very topical right now. Max’s character arc ends with his redemption in finally learning to love, and realize who he is. Very, very sad but very important play.
Everyone should read this book or watch the play or the movie.I am equally infuriated, disgusted, appalled, and heartbroken, though I am not surprised. It is a sad world when such atrocities do not surprise you.
This is a spectacular play depicting LGBT life during the Holocaust era. The ending wasn't quite what I had expected until I considered the real-life basis of the plot. This is a must read book for anyone interested in LGBT literature.
This play broke my heart and I couldn't stop reading once I started. So glad to have found it, even if it will take a long time to process it properly.
Haunting. Horrifying. And a very important read, especially in the age of Trump, as the walls close in.
love love love!
3.5 stars out of 5. I enjoyed it. I'm a little hesitant on my rating because I want to analyze it in my class before I make a solid rating. But, as of right now, I enjoyed it.
Powerful story about an often untold history.
very few plays hit hard with me emotionally. This story very much got to me.
Heartbroken. Wonderfully written. A privilege to have come across this.
Horst is a gay German who wears the pink triangle with pride; a heart-warming relationship flourishes between these two men.
The play shouts out “real” since Martin Sherman is a gay Jew and lived through the Nazi regime as a young child.
The emotional depth of the two characters relationship is jaw dropping This is an eye opening piece of writing which will make you much more aware of how gay men were treated during that time and hopefully in turn will show you that all humans are equal no matter what their race, sex, sexuality or gender is.No words can express the true beauty of this play, buy it, rent it, steal it; either way make sure you read it!
This book is very powerful!
I have the movie as well, most everyone I know finds it incredibly boring because they (physically) do nothing but move rocks, and though this is a big part in the visual sense of the play, movie, and screen write, this really isn't the point at all.It's about what happened to the homosexuals during the time of Hitler's reign.
I highly recommend this book (or movie if you'd prefer) to any one, but it needs to be given your full attention in order to be appreciated it in it's entirety.
I spoke to a student the other day who was talking about how much he was hating having to read plays in his English class.
Although I rarely read plays anymore, I loved reading plays in school.
We often read them out loud in class, and it was exciting to have a role in the story.
It wasn't a play that I read in class, but I was in college the first time I read it.
Bent is one of the most powerful stories I have ever read.
If you haven't read it, add it to your must-read list.
A short read for a play but hits you like a punch in the gut; I can only imagine how powerful this piece becomes when acted out on stage.
Simply told through simple dialogue from a short list of characters doesn't lessen it's impact.
Sherman matter-of-factly shows the reader/viewer a window into a time where people were committing unspeakable horrors against each other for whatever reasons, a time many still struggle to understand.
This book won't help you understand the "why" anymore than it did before, but is an eye-opening reminder of the inhumanity that lurks underneath our humanity.
Bent was a game-changer for me. The parallels between the traditional Jewish experience during the holocaust, which, I feel, we perhaps know a bit too well, and the homosexual experience at that same time are deep, painful, and, ultimately, transformative. The things a man will do to survive coupled with the love that dare not speak its name provides a gripping clash of values that tests each character's mettle in ways that move and hurt--bending them, if you will--and will, in my opinion, leave the reader a different person afterward. This is, truly, not one to be missed.
I read this in one sitting, in about an hour, and was left heartbroken. An obviously tragic story, powerfully told. It may be a play, but I don't think I could ever see it performed live, it is so painfully frank in its portrayal of human atrocities. The pink triangles are rarely talked about when discussing the holocaust, largely due to the allies' own homophobia (they did, after all, keep the nazi laws in place regarding homosexuality.) This play is as crucial as it is phenomenal; as well-written as it is horrifying.
