https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/220362.Manon_des_Sources
Quite surprisingly, I loved this sequel just as much as I loved Jean de Florette.
And I still feel miserable about the suffering characters, but now it is Papet I can't get over.
Nothing prepared me for the deep pain I would feel on behalf of that grumpy, greedy old man.
But oh my, I have not stopped thinking about him since I read the last lines.
Somehow, the poetical justice that Manon experiences at the end of the second book still leaves the reader (me, at least) in melancholy.
It certainly proves Pagnol's superb storytelling skills and profound understanding of different layers in human hearts.Great read!
"Manon des sources" or "Manon of the Springs"--a must read for those who had finished Marcel Pagnol's "Jean de Florette."If you hate anyone here who had done you ill, you can inflict most pain to him by giving him a copy of Jean de Florette, wait for him to read it, then TELL him what happened here at "Manon of the Springs" before he has the chance to read it. I can't imagine any vengeance more complete than this.
Gelezen in originele versie - De grote klassieker van Pagnol heeft me, net als Jean de Florette, diep geraakt.
Pagnol kreeg vaak de naam een soort "kroniekschrijver" te zijn, maar voor mij is hij echt meer dan dat.
Zijn personages dringen diep door in je ziel, je ziet ze, je hoort ze (hun tongval), net zoals je het intense licht ziet van de zon en het snerpende geluid van de krekels hoort.
En toch, ondanks het feit dat hun kleinzieligheid naar boven komt, merk je hoe hij van die mensen houdt...
Sort of surreal reading this book with the massive drought currently going on at home in California. Fantastic, earthy prose. M. Pagnol is one of life's best literary discoveries.
Quatrième de couverture - Récit simple et puissant d'une lutte pour la vie, histoire d'un crime et d
Une histoire parfaitement réalisée. Pagnol c'est un écrivain superbe.
Again, read it in French, it took weeks, loved it.
N’arrivant pas à me détacher de l’univers provençal dans lequel je fus immiscé à travers le premier 
I actually read the english translation by W.E. van Heyningen but that only appears as one volume for this and Jean de Florette. There doesn't appear to be a single volume version in English.Although I knew the basic story from reviews of the films made in the seventies I didn't know the full story and the ending is indeed very poignant and even in translation holds up well.
J'ai beaucoup, beaucoup, aimé le style de Marcel Pagnol. Il dépeint la vie provençale avec poésie et d'une façon intimiste et si honnête, qu'on a l'impression de voir le récit au lieu de le lire. J'ai passé un moment très agréable grâce à ce bouquin, chargé d'émotion et de légèreté. Je le conseille vivement !
Fairly interesting is fatal infatuation, Christian superstition, and church politics. The story is too simple and the literary quality only average. Cannot recommend Marcel Pagnol. Manon is less depressing than *Jean De Florette,* which you must read first.
Excelente. Aqueles romances clássicos, simples mas com uma narrativa inesquecível. Os personagens permanecerão por muito tempo na mente dos leitores.
Beautiful story in the vein of Roman pastoral poems.
On passe des livres aux films et des films aux livres sans se lasser. Superbe !
I did not think I would give it 4 stars but the last few pages totally made it worth it. I still got wet cheeks from crying while reading the ending. I really liked it!
Adoré!
Phenomenal ending to an amazing series. Wonderfully written !
Ce deuxième tome est dans la lignée du premier, une histoire du quotidien mais néanmoins pleine de rebondissements. Le secret des Soubeyran n'en a pas été un très longtemps et ils en payent les conséquences, tout en restant pathétique pour l'un et méprisable pour l'autre. La révélation finale de ce drame bien ficelé apporte une sorte de morale à l'histoire, et sera difficilement "acceptée " et digérée par le mécréant. J'ai adoré suivre ces personnages, leurs évolutions, conflits intérieurs etc. Ils sont bien développés, complexes et attachants (pour la plupart), même César Soubeyran finalement.
and http://realini.blogspot.ro/ This is a unique achievement.Well, there is The Godfather part I and II, but otherwise it is extremely rare to achieve magnificence not once, but twice.After the brilliant Jean de Florette, Manon de Sources is not just the second, concluding part, but a chef d’oeuvre itself.Granted, it benefits from the same stellar cast, minus the now Russian actor Gerard Depardieu whose character dies in the first part.The poor “bossu” was killed by his recklessness, but in larger part it was the villains Le Papet and Ugolin that murdered Jean.With the important contribution of the villagers that in most part knew about the spring and did not tell anything.When Jean de Florette becomes the heir to a large estate he decides to move in the countryside and become a farmer.He also wants to -	Cultivate “l’authentique” Which the uneducated, ignorant, even if street smart Soubeyrans misunderstand and take for the name of an exotique plant.There is water on the property and that has been stopped by Ugolin and his uncle in order to be used only by them, once they get their hands on the land, which they desperately want and they killed for, albeit accidentally.
Manon des Sources est un roman publie en 1962 base sur la deuxieme moitie du film du meme nom tourne en 1952 par l'auteur.
La lecture de Manon des Sources est une joie pure.
Le roman contient des personnages fascinantes et une intrigue merveilleusement bien ficelee.
La conclusion est de la plus juste.
Les mechants recoivent la visite de Némésis et les justes recoivent leure recompenses bien merites.
Le tout est dans style qui demontre que le cineaste Pagnol a tres bien merite son siege a l'Academie francaise.Gardez la lecture de ce bijou pour un moment ou vous aurez besoin d'un divertissement ravivant.
This second part (sequel to Jean de la Florette) was a bit disappointing.
She finds out who is responsible for the death of her father and revenges this on the entire village.
Eventually she ends up wedded and wealthy.
The story contains the same strong elements as part 1: a beautiful description of the paradisiacal nature and the ordinary village life.
Also the tragedy of greed and the lack of responsibility are beautifully stressed.
But this part is much less homogeneous and strong as the previous one, especially because of the many improbable twists and turns, especially in the end.
Continuación del libro del mismo autor titulado "Jean de Florette".
Este libro fue muy interesante porque describía la vida de la gente de un pueblo lleno de envidias, egoismo y trabajo.
Sin embargo era un poco lento en sus descripciones a veces demasiado pesadas.Manon des Sources continua desarrollándose en el pueblo, con los personajes que quedaban al final del otro libro y con algunos nuevos que han ido llegando.
Es la descripción de una venganza, de la vergüenza de un pueblo y de la esperanza de la vida que continua a pesar de los contratiempos.
Esta segunda parte es mucho más dinámica y muy bonita.
J'ai largement laissé passer le temps avant de me plonger dans la lecture de Pagnol... et quelle belle surprise!  Jean de Florette  a été merveilleux, et il m'a laissé une forte nostalgie et un besion de savoir encore plus sur le futur de la petite Manon. Voilà comment Manon des sources  m'avait déjà séduit même avant de commencer la lecture. Une lecture que d'ailleurs, ne m'a guère deçue. La suite des événements, ainsi que les nouveaux personnages, comme celui de l'instituteur, m'ont fait accrocher encore plus à la deuxième partie. En résumé: cette histoire m'a vraiment bouleversée!
French summer reading (in English, sadly) developing. Only Les Mis and Notre Dame de Paris to go.. Really enjoyed this pastoral tale of small grudges, vengeance and memories. Need to see the film next. Also enjoyed Jean de Florette, even if it was sad. Glad Le Papet and Ugolin get their comeuppance. Well worth reading.
Another I had to read for school. It was well written and the pay-off was worth it, but I actually found myself siding with Ugolin throughout. Obviously, this did not leave me very happy with the conclusion.
Getting into the story was a bit tough as I did not read the first book Jean de Florettes. But I soon got swept up in this story of guilt and revenge set in a small village in the Provence. It paints a vivid picture of that life and makes for a quick read.
Lovely! A perfect follow up to Jean de Florette
only read sections
Manon des Sources is constructed very much like a classical Greek tragedy and it has the power of a work by Sophocles.
Trying to remember how to speak French. Read this in high school. Definitely want to do it again. Any day now.
