https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/12066.The_Nice_and_the_Good
With three women in the house as well as female children, the main character calls home his “harem.” The crowded beach house setting reminds me quite a bit of Virginia Woolf’s novel To the Lighthouse.
The main character prides himself on being a good person and bases his actions on what is the RIGHT thing to do.
You know what they say about good intentions…So the author puts Mr. Righteous in the unfortunate position of being in love with a married woman.
It looks like an office worker has committed suicide and the main character is put in charge of the investigation to keep it out of the press.
I just don't know what it is with Iris Murdoch novels.
I like her, and I've read most of her books.
But Iris Murdoch?
I recall this incident at a party in Manchester, some time in the winter of 1977.
I'd just gone through a phase of reading a lot of Murdoch, so it was all fresh in my memory.
She'd also read a lot of Murdoch.
neither of us could remember a damn thing about them.
"Have you read The Nice and the Good?" I asked, or whichever novel it was.
Relationships are dissected, psyches are explored, the story is a bit eccentric (but this is so typical of Murdoch’s style and again, this does not spoil the experience of reading any of her books), whomever seems good at first proves to be only nice and whomever seems not to fall within the social standards proves to be genuinely good.
Well, I don’t want to add any spoilers to my review, but Murdoch’s conclusions make one think and understand the two concepts (of nice and good) for what they really are.I ended this book wondering: is being surrounded by genuinely good people desirable or is it preferable being surrounded by nice people?
Thankfully, there’s a much more positive vision of Judaism here than in A Severed Head or The Italian Girl.I especially noted and liked the duplicated moments, such as two scenes of women jealously observing other mistresses; the instances of dramatic irony; and the sequences composed mostly of dialogue (e.g., Chapter 40).
There’s a gripping scene where three characters are stuck in a sea cave due to a rising tide, and the book ends on what seems to be a sighting of a flying saucer.
And yet Kate is one of the most stable and contented characters.This falls about in the middle of the pack for me in terms of how much I’ve enjoyed Murdoch’s novels.
I tend to like novels which butt the classical spiritual world and its mischievous characters against the modern world as this one does.
For that reason I knew I'd like The Nice and the Good.
As in other novels, she's concerned with the idea of good and how humans attain that quality, here contrasted with the merely nice.
No doubt because I like a modern setting which blurs into the classical and no doubt because Iris Murdoch, as usual, has written a novel of such generous breadth and intelligence, I think this the best novel I've read so far this year.
It’s a story of their discoveries of their own selves, getting rid of the veils of niceness to discover the real good, the good for them.John Ducane is a civil servant of high regard, who his friends and companions look up to, for his goodness, for his righteousness, his truthfulness.
The characters in this story, and quite a few at that, ruefully and in some cases compromisingly bind themselves to what they think are the obvious loves of their lives; only to chaotically discover ultimately by the melancholic yet loud thundering of the right chords of their hearts that they have been strumming the wrong strings all this time and the symphony of mutuality lies somewhere else, with someone else.
"A head of department, working quietly in his room in Whitehall on a summer afternoon, is not accustomed to being disturbed by the nearby and indubitable sound of a revolver shot." The Nice and the Good rewards Attention. And Attention here is not the fixation on story specifics that foretell the action or outome; there is more here than Shakespearean abundance in figures and forms. For Murdoch, and I've said this previously or a good reading of her essays might show, Attention is something lik
The Nice and the Good rewards Attention.
For Murdoch, and I've said this previously or a good reading of her essays might show, Attention is something like an indispensable concept to art and moral philosophy - instead of the will, central to Murdoch's picture of the moral agent is a loving gaze that pictures the individual accurately, justly and lovingly.
So I also quote Charles Taylor with my emphasis in italics: "I cannot pretend to give an account of Iris Murdoch's contribution to moral philosophy, much less sum it up or give some verdict on it.
I'm an Iris Murdoch sycophant so there's almost no reason to write a review.
The Nice and The Good stands with her best, another novel about the British middle classes in the 70s, this with some political intrigue, mysterious cults, and many affairs.
Iris exquisitely defines each character and relationship, and she loves relationships in transition.
She's sometimes described as cold-hearted but I think she's just into the absurdity, the emotional brutality and of course the uncertainty all inherent to love affairs.
This is, as Murdoch books go, on the fun side and at times absurdly hilarious.
She is so good!
"Theo had begun to glimpse the distance which separates the nice from the good, and the vision of this gap had terrified his soul".Here, on the second page from the end, is the sentence which really sums up the whole book.
Set against the backdrop of a Whitehall thriller, mixed in with murder and the occult, you have 'The Nice and the Good'.The message is not perhaps particularly inflammatory, yet what Iris Murdoch does is to highlight a group of people and explore how each individual struggles with the conundrum of being 'nice' or 'good'.
Some choose to be simply 'nice' - entertaining, pleasant company but ultimately shallow and self-centered - while others attempt to be 'good'.
This had all the classic Murdochian elements ... a cast of thousands introduced in opening pages, civil servants, people rich enought to have actual servants, teenagers naked swimming, the sea, bizarre deaths, a European intellectual, everyone being good/not being good/not knowing whether they ought to be good/not knowing whether they are being good/not knowing what good means ... but I didn't feel it was to her usual standard. Not half as enjoyable as A Fairly Honourable Defeat.Favourite line:"The room smelt of summer dust and roses."
I recall reading some Murdoch in my teens and not particularly liking it.
John Ducane, the main character, is one of those infuriating people who spend all their time mulling over how to be good, instead of just being good.
You know, the kind who tries to leave his lover but chickens out because he doesn't want to hurt her poor fragile feelings.
As if your feeling bad somehow makes you a good person, Ducane!
But Murdoch is so excellent a writer that she makes Ducane more nuanced than that, and in the end I found him fairly sympathetic.
With a too-heavy prose-to-dialogue ratio and characters who just can't be liked, this book ultimately fails to deliver the promised meditations on the difference between being nice and being good- it seems none of the people in this book can bother to be either or to be particularly interesting amidst this failure.
John is the one everyone turns to for help and advice, the one everyone believes is good as well as the potential savor who is put on a pedestal that he has created for himself, yet the novel follows his struggle with this.Alongside the investigatory part of the book is a typical Iris Murdoch large country home, inhabited this time by a ‘harem’ of women and their children, a gay Uncle, occasional visitors and, in a cottage on the grounds, a refugee from Dachau concentration camp.
It is the women who primarily appear to have agency in this though, not only Kate but Mary with Willy, Barbara with Pierce and McGrath’s wife Judy, another ‘Circe’ like woman.
For a book that is ostensibly pretty plot-heavy (there's a dubious suicide, Satanic rituals, multiple affairs, even more dark secrets, and an underwater rescue), The Nice and the Good gives the overall impression of being remarkably focused on people's inner lives. In that way, it reminds me a lot of novels like The Go-Between or The Magus, which also manage that balance between action and reflection. Like those two novels, it also features some really beautiful descriptions of the natural world, in this case the British coast in Dorset, a place I would really now like to visit.
To ask that a novel present a precise model of the proper role of romantic and divine loves, or that its characters be free of emotional and spiritual muddle, is to ask that a novel give an inaccurate portrait of experience.In The Nice and the Good, which is quite suspenseful at points but is, finally, a comedy, it is hard not to query Murdoch’s beliefs (hence my Googling) because her notion of the divine at times seems patently Christian.
Mary shows a great insight about a dead love being a ghost you can't make peace with and that one can't love in a void, while the Puritan Ducane is shown to be too guilty to feel happy, though it is then suggested that the only way to stop feeling guilty is to marry and forget the tyranny of the past.Many are nice, as society demands, but few in the book are truly good, even if things get tied up neatly and many come together to find apparent love.
The Bell was a good read.
In fact, it seems she had a hard time keeping any of her characters out of bed at all.The novel jumped around a bit too much for my liking.
And, apart from a rather well-written piece involving a cave at high tide, I wasn’t really captivated at any point.This was nominated for the Booker Prize so that got me thinking as to why.
Usually, Booker Prize winners have deeply drawn characters who suffer a variety of inner and outer conflicts.
Read The Bell instead.
The boys going into the civil service and the girls getting married and having children like good girls do.
It's particularly noticeable when McGrath leads Ducane into the underground tunnels deep below the civil service offices and you feel that something "other" is down there with them.
Like a lot of good fiction it is full of possibilities, roads that remain unexplored, and this keeps you guessing where the story is going to go.
Mostly the characters are interested in love; what it is, how it feels, how it manifests itself and how people act when they're in the midst of it.
I had not read anything by Iris Murdoch and decided I needed to read something more intellectually stimulating than the mysteries I consume, so checked it out from the library.
Reading this book put me in mind of Byatt's Possession, which I must read again some day.'Happiness,' said Willy, 'is a matter of one's most ordinary everyday mode of consciousness being busy and lively and unconcerned with self.
To be damned is for one's everyday mode of consciousness to be unremitting agonizing preoccupation with self.' Many of the characters in the book are much concerned with themselves and how they are perceived.This book stimulates the intellect and the emotions, and should to be savored.
The Nice and the Good is a novel about love and human nature.
The novel centres on John Ducane and his relationships, but furthermore to the relationships of the motley crew who live at Trescombe House in Dorset.
Kate and Octavian (who own Trescombe House) have picked up a number of waifs and strays over the years and they all live together.
As the novel progresses the characters embark on relationships with one another, some falling in love, some falling out.
There are many kinds of relationships and loves within the novel, many of the love affairs are unrequited, and there are passionate love affairs and unconventional love.

The main character strives to be good (and suffers) while his friends and hosts of the country home weekends he's invited to, content themselves with being nice.
My one issue (and unfair given that I'm reading it in 2011 and not 1968 or whenever it was first published) is that the women are defined solely through the male characters.
I finished the book not knowing who they were or what they wanted for themselves--other than to be with their men.
They pretty much thought about the males in every scene.The men have a great time though.
Like Graham Greene, Murdoch is one of those dead authors where everytime I read a book I am saddened that my excitement of discovery has been lessened.
One can read a book again but the initial wonder can never be recaptured.
Using a strange and violent death at a government office, Murdoch follows a trail that is less about solving the mystery than examining the life of the man assigned to solve the mystery.
Intricate and fascinating, I swam into its dark sea cave reveal where the turbulance and undertows make it difficult to know if one encountered is in thought or deed either nice or good.
Ultimately felt a little too neat, which is surprising considering I spent a lot of the book wondering where in the world it was headed. Also, what was that final scene? I'll be thinking about it for a while; a touch of the absurd and whimsical that could be interpreted as a sharp, painful jab in the side of humanity. As usual though, Murdoch has plenty of insightful, complicated things to say about what it means to be a good person; I'm glad I read it.
I liked it! And I felt erudite reading it! Win win, wieners.This is a strange book with a lot of strange characters, and I'm not quite sure I totally absorbed the premise (people are nice but not good...or good but not nice. Or something.) but the plot kept on trucking with sex, affairs, S&M, detective-work, suicide attempts, love and good times at the beach. All bathed in wonderful descriptions, vocabulary, pacing, etc. Very well done. Bravo.
Overall I really enjoyed this one - but I had a strange relationship with this novel, but that had more to do with my mood than the novel itself. There is plenty that is typically Murdoch in this one, peculiar relationships, the sea, goodness and enchantment being just some examples. I really enjoyed the mystery surrounding the suicide that the novel opens with. Very memorable - and certainly very readable.
I literally hugged this book when I was done with it. Edging past The Sandcastle as my favorite Iris Murdoch. As always, everything that shouldn't work does--the overstuffed roster of characters, the melodrama, the misunderstandings and misrouted letters. The ending manages to be both improbable and hugely satisfying. Recommended for patient fans of elegant writing.
after reading this book and skimming through a couple of old reviews for other Murdoch works, i can honestly say she is one of the best character builders that i know. forget the plot! i am fascinated with the little twerks that make her books personal reveries upon humanity. review to come.
A joy, a dirge, and so sincere I cried. Both a tame London murder mystery and a sliding-doors comedy of manners in Dorset, the two plots dreaming each other, running laminar. These mere genres are electrified by Murdoch's ethics and filled up with her wit. Like Greene, she is the apotheosis of trash conventions. I feel I am a better person afterward, or at least a better fool. The following derives its power from 200 pages of buildup suddenly letting loose, but it might give you an idea: Jealous
You wish to act out your love, to give it body, but there is only one act left to you that is truly loving and that is to let him go, gently and without resentment.Put all your, energy into that and you will win from the world of the spirit a grace which you cannot now even dream of.
For there is grace, Jessica, there are principalities and powers, there is unknown good which flies magnetically toward the good we know.
We are not good people, Jessica, and we shall always be involved in that great network, you and I.
The Grays, to set an example, lie in bed congratulating themselves on their own superiority in managing their affairs so happily and maturely as they so lovingly meddle in anyone else’s and while she’s a menace to any man she happens to come across and he unknown to her dallies after hours in his Establishment office with stray secretaries, though neither presents what would be generally known as a seductive figure.
Mr Gray, typical of the gentlemen who are Heads of Departments and here who administer the running of British affairs behind the scenes, is quite useless when it comes to the point and has to call in two colleagues, one who also happens to be a frequent visitor to Dorset and another who happens to be the former husband of the resident divorcée.
