https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/154869.Fat_City
Fat City won the National Book Award in 1970.
Reading it I felt the masculine despair of Carver, Bukowski even, a gritty look at men who are not making it.
One character is a past-his-prime boxer who works day labor in the fields of Central California but returns to the gym to try to regain something of his life.
The other character is a younger man who trains in the same gym, hoping for something other than his pregnant wife and stifling life in Stockton.
Uplifting, this book is not.
It’s moving inland - where the politics shift right, home values decrease and employment outside of the agriculture sector becomes more scarce – this is where you’ll find the other California, the second state, the place that looks and feels so different from the coastal cities it may as well be in the Midwest.Stockton is one of these inner California towns, and it’s almost not fair to the rest of the world that takes up a pen to write fiction that Leonard Gardner can write such a perfect first novel using this city as his setting.
One solid American Tale. More about the men's personal life (wives, remedial jobs, prejudice) than the sport of boxing. (Why oh why am I so attracted to these little books about athletes? I read "The Natural" a while ago & right now the Olympics ARE where its all about. But perhaps I'm kinda trying to find that novel that debunks "Art of Fielding" as the best sports novel of all time. It's a real toughie.)
He told this story:My friend across the road saw Gardner in a drugstore in California once, recognized him from his jacket photo.
I made my friend tell the story a thousand times.I loved that.
And will again, to friends who love a special book, and talk about every paragraph ...
one by one and over and over, the way couples sometimes reminisce about each moment of their falling in love.I tried, after that, to make Fat City be that book for me.
But, ah there were moments:"All I need's a fight and a woman.
I get the fight I'll get the money.
The novel becoming the perfect allegory for its own life in hindsight?Ernie Munger and Billy Tully are two amateur boxers, Ruben is their trainer.
Through a series of vignettes a portrait of emptiness and despair, of loss and desperation is completed with a bleak outlook and brutal honesty.The characters may well exist as boxers, that's their surface designation but there's no glamour in what they do, Gardner does not drift in to eulogising the pugilistic arts as many have done before and since; Ernie and Billy are all men and boxing is the metaphor for the toll life can take on you.
If you're a writer, and if you're going to write just one novel over the course of your career, please try to make it as good as this one.
FAT CITY by Leonard Gardner is the story of Tully, a washed up fighter who lost his career as a resu
The writing, the dialogue, the plot, the down-and-out characters with their demons--Leonard Gardner's Fat City is a total knockout.
Written at the end of the Sixties, but set in the Fifties world of boxing, boozing, skid row and bad relationships. It felt totally authentic and testosteroney, and i think i probably admired it more than loved it. There's an old boxing movie called The Set-Up and this made me want to re-watch that and it also made me grateful that i don't have to go peach picking, and that Sian isn't an alcoholic who taunts me in public.
The characters are involved with amateur boxing, everyone hoping to earn a little money from either getting beaten up, beating someone else up, or training the fighters and arranging the bouts.
Overhead great flocks of rising and fall blackbirds streamed past in a melodious din."it's clear the workers aren't noticing the phenomenon so lovingly described, and how, and why, did we got taken away from the hard-working men of the story to this extravagantly lovely descriptive aside.
It's a kind of authorial intrusion more distracting than the usual unidentified omniscient narrator telling the story.To its credit, Fat City ends on a note as unresolved as the lives of the young men of Stockton.
Leonard, like Johnson, illuminates the lives of the under-privileged with empathy without getting sentimental.
One senses that Leonard gets very close to the heart of the matter.Focusing on the lives of one boxer on his way down and another just starting his career, Leonard is able to create an over-all picture of what life was like for the vast majority of fighters.
By investing the lives of these men (even those who are self-destructive) with nobility and grace, Leonard gives us a truer understanding of our world than a typical champions story ever could.Unfortunately you are not likely to find Fat City on the shelves of a bookstore.
First published in 1969 (and the only novel Gardner ever wrote) this is an insight into the life of a couple of boxers struggling to survive in 1950s Stockton.
For aspiring fighters such as Billy Tully and Ernie Munger it’s a way out from a life of living in the seediest of hotels, fruit and nut picking to get by in the summer months, and hard drinking.
Gardner provides a glimpse through a window into their life, and amongst his great skills are to show that their lives have no fairy tale outcome and go on long after we finish reading.
If fists are your thing, and if their connecting points with both bone and soul is a concomitant obsession, then go buy some new pants and prepare to enter "Fat City".No, this isn't about the running battle against morbid obesity.
Instead it's the terse, supple and yet streamlined story of two boxers, one a washout mixed up in alcoholism, whoring, and fruitpicking, and an up-and-comer who likes sex, hitting people, and sex.
Despite sounding like a fun, if desperate, hoot, this novel is also about the crushing, inexorable bleakness of life.
Noses are broken, but so are spirits.Sort of the Tony Danza of boxing novels: personable, but harboring a heart of darkness.
The novel is set in Stockton, CA, fifty miles from my doorstep and scarcely over a hundred miles from where I grew up in the Sacramento Valley, and it has the same ring of geographical authenticity and the same clean, clear prose that helped endear me to Hard Rain.
And when we follow the washed-up never-weres into the fields to trim onions and weed tomatoes, Gardner makes us feel every agonizing moment and the agonizing pain in every muscle of stoop labor from the hiring hall to the endless rows and hours under a punishing sun.Both the older, clearly done-for Billy Tully and the younger, more promising, Ernie Munger live on the edge.
The main boxing trainer in this book, Ruben, has been training quitters for years, but his optimistic dialogue with his boxers breaks your heart (and makes you laugh).This book does not encourage you to root for anybody.
But it has much more emotional variety and perspective than those two books.I guess most people would find these types of books to be immensely depressing, but I find them strangely comforting.There's a part in this where a character wakes up in a stove used to burn trash.
He's arguing with the guy who wants him to get out because he doesn't like his tone.
It makes me laugh.
It took about 2 months to get Fat City from the library, there was that much of a waiting list although the book was published back in 1969, so it wasn't like some recent highly promoted book that people just had to read because of all the rave reviews.
He spent 4 years writing this relatively short novel.
The setting is Stockton where he grew up, and he was an amateur boxer at one time.
I would have liked it if Gardner had written more novels because Fat City was that good.
Billed as a boxing novel, “Fat City” is really a book about the hopeless; about men who have utterly lost their direction in life. Gardner’s strong pose is perfect for a story of this nature and his characters are fully developed. The overwhelming sense of gloom is almost too abundant, however, and there isn’t a single likeable character. Gardner’s writing is great, but the story is just okay. Meet in the middle and we’ll call it good.
Fat City can be shelved somewhere in between Tom Waits records, Bukowski lit and early Cassavettes films. It's got that nighthawks at the diner feel to it. Of all the boxing novels I've read Leonard Gardner describes ringside action more lucidly than anyone else. I can actually understand what's going on in the match. Gardner's a great writer and I'm surprised he didn't produce many more works after this. He could've been a contender.
Gritty and bleak.
I suppose you could say that Fat City is about boxing.
Nah. It's about the grind and hustling of poverty.
It's tough to support a family, drinking habits, and rent expenses when money is hard to come by.
What drives the main characters in Fat City is the urge to connect with the women of their lives.
It's disappointments that come with settling for someone who is simply available yet turning your circumstances into a boring desire.
Anxiety comes with this when you worry that you are stuck with them for good.
Another way to consider Fat City.
It is a novel of a time and place, Stockton CA in the 1950s, for a down-low segment of society--men scraping by on bad work, boxing, and a brand of love craved and despised.
The novel is exquisite in its misery, honest to its place and to the work the men do.
Their desperate need for love, and their hate for the kind of people they find themselves worthy of, is awful, as is their misery when they find themselves staring down the barrel of the rest of their lives, alone.
Fat City (come Città Amara, il grande film di John Houston tratto dal libro di Gardner) è una storia di loser, sempre sul punto di arrendersi, ma mai fino in fondo, quasi che l'ambizione fosse una fame chimica, impossibile da saziare, sempre più grande del loro stomaco.
Un grande romanzo sulla precarietà del vivere e della speranza, con il caporalato come agenzia interinale, una stanza d'albergo come singola a cinquecento euro, e il ring come occupazione ideale, non meno spietata di tutto il resto, che anche quando l'assaggi, non ha mai il sapore che ti aspettavi.
Ripper: Mandrake?Mandrake: Yes, Jack?Ripper: Have you ever seen a Commie drink a glass of water?Mandrake: Well, I can't say I have.Ripper: Vodka, that's what they drink, isn't it?
Never water?Mandrake: Well, I-I believe that's what they drink, Jack, yes.Ripper: On no account will a Commie ever drink water, and not without good reason.Mandrake: Oh, eh, yes.
Mandrake, have you never wondered why I drink only distilled water, or rain water, and only pure-grain alcohol?Mandrake: Well, it did occur to me, Jack, yes.Ripper: Have you ever heard of a thing called fluoridation.
Because the entire time I read Fat City, I couldn’t get Ripper’s stentorian voice out of my head.
‘At one time he had believed the nineteen-fifties would bring him to greatness.
Now they were almost at an end and he was through.’Fat City centres upon the lives of a stable of boxers and their coaches.
There are has-beens and hangers-on and never-had-a-hope-in-hell characters who sometimes turn up to train and sometimes don’t.
The tales of the history of the training and their bouts is compelling.
Women bring pleasure and pain in equal measure.
Working is tough.
The prose is tight and powerful.
The cycles of hope and despair are compelling and the desire to root for the characters in whatever they do is strong.
I was excited to see that "Fat City" was the novel of the month from NYRB classic subscriptions because I had seen the John Hudson movie years ago without realizing it was a novel as well.
Reading the book made me think not of this movie, but of other literature, particularly that of Charles Bukowski.
The end result is a fantastic short novel with a tone that is almost unmatched, and there is a statement by Denis Johnson in the introduction that regardless of what you want, the writing style will seep into your own writing, that it is unmatched.
This lends to the power of "Fat City" and Leonard Gardner.

Grim, authentic, morally rich... Superb little book!
Excellent novel about life in Stockton CA in the late fifties. Boxing, labor, love and hopelessness among the lives at the bottom rungs of the ladder of success. Short and powerful.
I learned a whole lot about writing from this book.
This was a really manly man kind of book
The missing link between Nathanael West and Denis Johnson. Would I have made that connection had Denis Johnson not written this edition's very wise and poignant introduction? I don't know. I do know that any discussion of great American novels that doesn't include this bone-true portrait of sweaty blue-collar desperation is worth less than a can of wet peas in a discolored pot.
