https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/93542.Spartacus
"When Kleon heard the news from Capua he rose early one morning, being a literatus and unchained, crept to the room of his Master, stabbed him in the throat, mutilated that Master's body even as his own had been mutilated: and so fled from Rome with a stained dagger in his sleeve and a copy of Plato's Republic hidden in his breast." I could go on about why I love this book, but why?
The opening line has it all.
Too bad.
It is refreshing, therefore, to return to the original 1933 novel by Scottish author James Leslie Mitchell under his pen name of Lewis Grassic Gibbon.Fast-paced, the original Spartacus novel recreates a real sense of how Roman decadence was almost overthrown by an army of over 90,000 former slaves, led by what must have been an exceptional man.
Mitchell pulls no punches in the brutal fighting scenes and a surprisingly modern recognition of the role and influence of women on the slave army shows he was ahead of his time.
Well worth the read if you are a Spartacus fan. The style of writing for me was a little hard to follow but the story builds up nicely and I really enjoyed reading it. I advise anyone who starts to read this book to keep going and finish it, it's well worth it
In a bit of prophecy from the final chapter, Gibbon, through the voice of Kleon, one of the slave commanders, said,“As this story will grow, dim and confused, in the ages to be, the story of the slaves’ insurrection.
And all the rest a dream or a lie."Indeed, none of the commanders named above appear in Douglas’ movie, based on the 1951 Howard Fast novel.
The intrigue that comes from the Senate in Rome is transferred here to the generals of the slave army, some of whom are loyal to Spartacus and some who are not.
It is dominated by Kleon and the rest of the commanders.
Lewis Grassic Gibbon's (LGG) Spartacus is one of several novels that tell the story of the gladiator turned revolutionary.The novel has obvious socialist overtones with the slaves in revolts against their masters.
Interestingly LGG tried unsuccessfully to join the British Communist Party.
The Hollywood movie Spartacus was based on the novel by Howard Fast.
Fast finished his book in 1951 but because he was a member of the USA Communist Party until 1956, Hollywood producers did not feel confident to use the novel as the basis for the screen play until 1960.LGG's is supposed to be the most authoritative version, drawing on accounts written by classical historians.
I liked this one better than Howard Fast's (I thought his portrayals of Crassus and Cicero were way off).
It's told more from the viewpoints of the people around Spartacus than from his.
It starts with a Greek eunuch killing his master and running off to join Spartacus' band - he's one of the characters who keeps reappearing.
There's also a Jewish general who fought in Judea, and was captured and sold into slavery in Syria.
Spartacus himself is kind of boring when we finally meet him.
Once in a while we meet a Roman general trying to defeat Spartacus, but they're fairly incompetent.
Recent viewing of the movie Trumbo reminded me that I read Spartacus, the novel, in high school a couple of years before I saw the Kirk Douglas movie. I remember being uncertain at the time whether this leader of a slave revolt was a real, historical figure or whether this was entirely fictional character placed in a historic setting.
Nasty and brutish portrayal of the slave revolt.No one comes out of this tale particulary shiny, it is not some kind of hagiography on Spartacus which I initially thought it might be considering Gibbon's politics.In this there are (to quote the McNeill song) "no gods and precious few heroes".
very well written, Great read.
I really wanted to like this. The description talks about how great it is but I found it unreadable. Hard to follow and not well written, in my opinion.
grrrrrrrr. it was hard to get into but what you did get into was very interseting
A very accurate interpretation of the rebel leader Spartacus. At times the words itself countered the flow of the book.
