https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6381205-soulless
Here is a most edifying (and highly scientific) quiz you may use to ascertain whether this novel is one that you will enjoy.* Is your bookcase overflowing with strong, decisive heroines?* Do you chuckle over the animated Gorey titles preceding a PBS “Mystery!” presentation?* Are you fond of the Victorian era?* Does witty prose make you positively giddy with excitement?* Have you ever lingered over a bit of lace or wistfully touched a velvet coat?* Are you delighted when someone brews a pot of tea?
The genre mixing problem shows here because I think Alexia’s opinion of Ivy, the possessor of ugly hats, is exactly how PG Wodehouse might characterize a person in one of his short stories, as so-“And as for Miss Hisselpenny- she wore an ugly hat- we need say no more!” Fine, but as the book goes on, Alexia’s story gets more and more melodramatic and Tearjerking, with involved Gothic plots and character development past the opening farce, and I’m supposed to feel bad for how badly she’s been treated, ie, see her as a real person.
In the beginning of the book she is attacked in the library by a rove vampire.
They all end up trying to find out what is going on with the vampires and some werewolf stuff.
To be honest, after a couple of chapters I was going to put the book down and even got the rest of the series I own, out to trade in.
There are some things going on that have me bothered today so I let it take away my fun with the book.
Dear Lord, the things she said!!
And I take no responsibility over what my phone said in this review =)
I have not read any Wodehouse, but I imagine I will like him very much, if he is indeed an influence on this author's writing.Not only did I enjoy the humor, I thought the characters were beyond interesting.
I liked that she was a woman of her times, in that she was strong, intelligent, and passionate; yet, she possessed the morals and understandings of what was appropriate in her society.
There's a really good part where Alexia has to get up close and person with a naked Lord Maccon to keep him from changing back into a wolf.
I wish I had written this book! Only because it combines two of my latest fetishes: Corsets and Paranormal creatures. After the first chapter this book is pretty good, I really enjoyed it (although it's not reinventing the wheel in any way). Nice romance, appealing characters, melding of the two genres was enough to keep my very entertained and up late! I will read another for sure!
Loved it! Why did I wait so long to read this???-  Alexia is my spirit animal.  What an AWESOME female lead. "Spinster" who just doesn't give a crap. Smart as hell. Capable. Funny. Brash. -  Conall Maccon.  Best werewolf ever! So sexy and gruff and grumpy. Big huge manly werewolf. Rawr.- Loved all the supporting characters. The butler, Floote, Lyall the Beta werewolf... Lord Akeldama, best flaming vampire evah! - Fantastic world building! There's just enough of a little oomph to tweak what we've
Loved it!
Why did I wait so long to read this???- 
Best werewolf ever!
Big huge manly werewolf.
Rawr.- Loved all the supporting characters.
The butler, Floote, Lyall the Beta werewolf...
I'm a sucker for historical fiction/alternate reality settings with a paranormal spin and this totally worked!Definitely continuing the series.
There are no steamy love scenes, but what you do get feels just right.
Buddy read with the MacHalo group.
I don't know how big a part vampires play in the overall plot, but I'm counting this towards vampire month part 2.(By the way, vampires play a major part in this.
It's like sitcom t.v. for the book world, where you don't have to think and it's all laid out for you.
Couldn't you describe Alexia lifting her back up so the earl could undo the row of tiny mother-of-pearl buttons up the length of the ivory taffeta gown?
There was also a scene of real beauty (to me) near the end, with the sunset.One last non-story thingy – the pose on the cover image is only possible for the rare ~2% of the population who are supermodels; one of the RBRS ladies didn't find it impossible but I suspect she's got some supermodel in her.
I enjoyed her volatile relationship with Lord Maccon and I felt the story was fairly well written with good pacing and an interesting set of characters.What I didn't like about the story, and my main gripe, is with Alexia's apparent Soullessness.
The thing is, if she really was that familiar with Aristotle then she'd know that he believed the soul to be our very essence.
Really?[image error]You have no soul!!!!!!!!!!!!!!Okay, we already knew that, but still...Still, weirdly, despite the fact that she apparently struggles with fashion, she still feels she can berate her bff's horrible taste in hats.
If Charlaine Harris and Jane Austen's ghost got together and had a love child, this book would be it.Soulless plays in Victorian era England, in an alternate world where shifters and vampires have revealed their existence to the common folk (much like a historical True Blood).
She has the ability to cancel supernatural powers by touch, which helps her deal with Lord Maccon (werewolf alpha and book BF material) and a horde of vampires and evil scientists pursuing her.The Parasol Protectorate was different from other PNR or UF series I've encountered because:-it's my first historical PNR read.
My apologies to all my friends who love this book, but again, I fail to understand the appeal. Like with a few other popular novels I've tried reading recently, this is simply a glorified fanfiction in print. If you ever ask me what I mean calling books "fanfiction," my answer would be, as with the definition of "porn," I can't articulate it, but I know when I see/read it. It's just too gratuitous and lacks substance, depth, flavor, richness, even though it, at times, entertains.
In an odd way this also explains the dichotomy between low self-esteem and confidence in Alexia's personality: on the one had, she is sure that there is something deeply wrong with her; on the other hand, feelings of difference that usually cause individuals to feel that they are "weird" she explains away as due to her lack of soul, and thus not really her fault.I also thought this might be a bit of critique of High Society, in which an Italian surname is more detrimental to one's status than the lack of a soul.
4.5/5 stars I really enjoyed this book!
Alexia is such an interesting character, and the world is very similar to that of TID - WHICH I LOVED.The whole paranormal aspect was very well done and interesting to read about and I loved all the major characters!
The minor characters could have been a bit better, but that's what other books are for!
The story was SO GOOD and very well thought out - a lot of things surprised me, though I did catch some of the foreshadowing.
Can't wait to read the rest of this series - I'm sure it's only going to get better from here.
Still, I don't hate this book, so before giving my reasons for not liking it, I will be fair and go over what I did like.Our heroine, Miss Alexia Tarabotti, hasn't had an easy life.
While the people of today spend countless dollars on cancer-causing tanning beds and spray on tan in a cans that make them look like a walking Orange Julius, in Alexia's day and age it is simply not the fashion to have a little darker skin.
I'm afraid that's where my interest ended.I have read of the neck nibbling (or gnawing, as the case may be) that ensues later on, and, for obvious reasons, I sincerely tried to make it to that part.
While there are a few urban fantasy series that I really enjoy, it is not my favorite genre, especially those series that could also be classified as “paranormal romances.” This book, while more “Victorian steampunk” than urban fantasy does certainly have a very strong “romance” element to the plot…AND I REALLY, REALLY ENJOYED IT!!The story takes place in an alternative Victorian London where vampires and werewolves exist and have made themselves known to the normal human population.
The main character, Alexia Tarabotti, is a spinster (at the ripe old age of 26) whose half-Italian heritage and strong-willed personality make here less than perfect marriage material according to London society.
After Alexia Tarabotti commits a faux pas and accidentally kills a vampire at a party and falls under the eye of Lord Maccon, the Queen's investigator of the supernatural, she inadvertently gets involved in a plot involving werewolves, vampires, and deranged scientists.
High society, werewolves, vampires, dirigibles, what's not to like?
The relationship of Lord Maccon and Alexia is straight out of every romantic comedy ever made and still comes off pretty funny.
To sum up, while it has the distinctive taste of chick lit, Soulless was a pretty enjoyable read for those who like their humor to have a British flavor.
Trying to hide it makes me embarrassed for you.I’m feeling like the same rule applies to the romance genre.
I even think part of the point of Soulless is “Who knows why people are attracted to each other since there is no one kind of beauty?” which I like.
I’m sure it’s not a usual thing to have that be a major revelation, but sometimes I look around at the little, petty meannesses between people, and I think maybe we all should be reminded .
Rant over.So, that’s my complaint, but I really took more space ranting here about it than it took in the book, and I still liked the story.
But my favorite part of the book had to be the interaction between Alexia and Lord Maccon.
Hilarious!Alexia inherited more than her Italian ancestry from her father, she also inherited her soulless state.
I really loved how Alexia's soulless state was emphasized.
Multiple people had too much soul, although few had as little as Alexia.Alexia's friendship with the foppish Lord Akeldama was great!
I also loved his devoted, little harem.
Three cheers to the author for creating characters that I love to pieces!
I loved when he was ranting about her ignoring him.
I always get really nervous when I write reviews for books that I have such positive reactions to, especially ones like this one that have such strong personalities.
I happened to love it immediately after reading the first sentence, but I can understand how if the humor in the writing or the language she uses, or if you don't like romances, or stories with their tongues firmly in cheek, or stories set in Victorian England, or dirigibles, or spinsters .
This book was such a perfect mash-up of things I love, put together in such a very appealing way.
No First Book Syndrome here.Gail Carriger shows that she is a woman with ideas in this alternate history paranormal tale.
The characters are memorable, the writing is tight, and the banter is delightfully witty.Her main character, Alexia Tarabotti, is a sharp and intelligent spinster whose lively conversations and astute observations belie her status of "soulless." She's a wonderful and determined character.
Miss Tarabotti is very passionate about her beliefs, and more than willing to whack would-be attackers about the head with her parasol.Alexia lives in a Victorian England where vampires and werewolves are accepted by society.
I haven't had this much fun reading a book in ages. Witty dialogue, believable characters, and a real sense of the Victorian--and steampunk!--make Carriger's book a treat. Off to the sequel!
There are people who loathed it and are not afraid to say so, to people who absolutely rave about it and can't give it enough stars!
Well I am not going to rave but I did like it very much indeed:)Of course Soulless was written for people like me.
I love historical romance, anything to do with Victorian London and vampires (werewolves not so much but I am making an exception for Lord Maccon).
I laughed a lot even through the romance scenes which were an entertainment in themselves!Definitely a series I am going to follow up on.
The cover is good, the author seems obsessed with English tea, which seemed like a cool thing until I read her Q&A at the end of the book.
Dawson’s  Wicked as They Come.The main character in this book is Miss Alexia Tarabotti, a half Italian spinster who thinks she’s too fugly for anyone to even spare her a second glance.
He was simply there to save the MC when she was in trouble, form a god-forsaken romance and make fangirls sigh each time he makes an appearance.Oh, and I also think the way he shows his affections for Alexia is simply weird.
Actual rating *4.25 stars*I had such a fun ride with this book. The characters and relationships are what got me excited and eventually I just fell in love with it all. It started a bit slow for me and I would have liked a bit more world-building, but I loved the story overall and will definitely be continuing the series in the future!!
Well, this was fun! Their love story started with a hedgehog...Well, Conall is not a kitty, but if the shoe fits... LMAOOOAlso Alexia is not a delicate flower! And she's aboundately able to deal with an ornery werewolf!Who becomes a kitty when she lays her preternatual hands on him! Horny, maybe, but definitvely not ornery! A really fun book! Not to be taken seriously, but very enjoyable!
If you might easily be offended by frivolous behaviour like holding hands in public or scandalous activity such as talking to unmarried men without a chaperone, I urge you to avoid your eyes and seek fullfillment of your literary gusto elsewhere.The tale of my good friend, Alexia Tarabotti, is of a nature highly inappropriate to discuss in such a frank and open environment as in this review your gaze is witnessing as of right now.Not only is Miss Tarabotti's dislike of my beautiful collection of hats of quizzical nature, but her questionable choice of supernatural relations is quite befuddeling.
Fantasy of manners, steampunk, and historical romances can all take a step back because this book has it all and it does it better than all y'all! Witty, sweet, and damn good fun, Soulless is a book that grabs you from the opening page and whisks you through the plot in a no-nonsense manner than belies its depths of humour and intelligence. It is fast-paced easy reading that is, at the same time, well-written and clever.
2.5 starsSoulless read more like a historical romance than an urban fantasy. Yes, we have werewolves and vampires, but they were secondary to the funny romance going on between the two main characters.There are some great lines in this book, but something is missing. I'm not sure what, I cannot put my finger on it, but I felt it throughout the entire novel. So I don't think I'll pursue the series any further.
It doesn't work and makes the reader wonder about the change.The fantasy elements of the novel don't seem well thought.
It is true that Carriger is trying to be fresh (maybe, considering the UF genre now, it is impossible) with her idea of a vampire hive and a soulless person.
Unique point six.Someone put her out of my misery.At times it seems that Carriger is trying to be cute and funny.
Carriger is drawing on both these works and comes across as a poor last place finisher.There are, however, two very good things that Carriger does here, that while not ensuring this book or a series a second chance, will make me look for her work outside of this.
LOVED IT! I listened to this one - the reader, Emily Gray was excellent. I laughed out loud. It's set in Victorian London where Vampires and Werewolves are a part of high society. My only complaint - I can't find the sequel on Audible.com and I don't think I'll be able to read this series now that I've listened to Emily...it wouldn't be the same!
★★★★ Soulless is my first foray into the world of “steampunk.” Well, other than the writings of H.G. Wells and Jules Verne, read to me by my adventurous mother.Dirigable from Ms. Carriger’s website.I will be honest and say I just didn’t see the appeal until somewhere around the middle of the third chapter. Maybe I was too focused on figuring out the subtle world building to sit back and enjoy the ride until then. (Unsure what a claviger, drone, or dewan was, I do still wish there had been a glos
★★★★½ Soulless is my first foray into the world of “steampunk.” Well, other than the writings of H.G. Wells and Jules Verne, read to me by my adventurous mother.Dirigable from Ms. Carriger’s website.I will be honest and say I just didn’t see the appeal until somewhere around the middle of the third chapter.
At my age, I need to read things more than once to comprehend them.
Scroll about half-way down the page on this link and these terms, and others, will be explained: Soulless on Shelfari.)And the world building is subtle at first.
