https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/126151.Kaffir_Boy
Wow-this is an eye opening book. Mark Mathabane writes of his life as a Black boy in South Africa during Apartheid. I had no idea what went on during that era (and sadly some of what went on then, is probably still happening now). i found this book listed on a list of books that people want to ban...which means that I should probably read them. After reading it, I'm not sure why anyone would want to ban it. I think everyone should read it. It is HISTORY and a reality that perhaps we don't want to face, but should.
Mathabane's lack of attention to descriptive details is however not reflected in his descriptions of conversations, which he appears to recall word for word, paragraph after paragraph.
I felt this in particular when he described conversations with his mother.There is no doubting at all that a book like this is so important in teaching us about the harsh reality of life in SA townships, and one cannot help but admire Mathabane's strength and determination in escaping this way of life.
Kara MurphyMs HousemanWorld Lit 5/5/08Mark MathabaneKaffir BoyNew York: Simon & Schuster, 2007354 pp. $15.00978-0-684-84828-0 “Let us not rest until we are free to live in dignity in the land of our birth.”(Mark Mathabane) Mark Mathabane dedicates this quote in his autobiography (Kaffir Boy) to the people in South Africa for the struggle and fight for freedom. The autobiography shows the cruel punishment black South Africans suffer from white South Africans in the 1950’s, getting in great de
“I want you to have a future, boy […] and contrary to what your father says, school is the only means to a future.”(133 Mathabane) Education is a great gift to Mathabane and his mother, and for her son to be provided with such a thing gives her pride and hope.
In the process in getting Mathabanes education, however, his mother goes through a series of struggles with only hope to drive her to stay devoted.
Without hope and devotion not only would Mathabane lives be changed, but the black South African society as a whole
The narrative vividly describes apartheid and the unbearable conditions its laws inflicted on blacks: racism, extreme poverty, constant hunger, brutality, constant fear and intimidation.Matabane’s teenage dream to get out of the ghetto faced almost impossible odds.
Through a series of circumstances, the unwavering support of his mother and grandmother, his tenacity and determination, and no small degree of luck, I found it almost unbelievable the obstacles he overcame.Throughout the book, the one theme that resounded with me was the strength shown by Matabane’s mother as she faced unspeakable conditions.
Even though she was herself uneducated, had extremely limited financial resources, seven children to care for and feed, and a violent husband who drank and gambled his small wages away, education was always her priority.
I picked this book off of the free shelf at the library and got exactly what I expected: An introspective look into black life during apartheid.
It's uplifting to think that this man made it out so well, but I wish he would have added a postscript at the end, letting us know about what happened to the rest of his family.
All I could think of at the end of the book was about how much I wondered how the others fared.
Maybe the textbook areas are the points he is uncomfortable sharing?
I fell in love with Mark Mathabane; I fell in love with his resilience, his strength, his continuous belief in himself as a black man, and his struggle against the disgusting system of Apartheid in South Africa.
Throughout the book, Mark refuses to believe what the white man affirms of him.
I knew about apartheid, but reading it from Mark’s perspective gives the reader a more personal look at the everyday life of Black: man, woman, and children, under apartheid South Africa.
Mark is inspiring as a black man, an African, and a human being.
I ended up reading the whole novel in one sitting, and it was completely worth it.I can't even begin to understand the challenges for people living in Apartheid South Africa.
However, this autobiography really set the stage for helping the reader start the grasp the significance and solemnity of this period of time.Mark Mathabane is a truly powerful figure.
I loved reading about the process he took to become a recognized academic and tennis player.
I recommend this autobiography to anyone who has even the slightest interest in learning about history and understanding some of the harsh realities people have to face.
I'm going to South Africa next week and so I'm preparing myself with a variety of ''you must read'' books about the country.
Reading this book showed me how all those damnable laws that happened at the top of the elite white hierarchy in South Africa affected the powerless millions of non-whites at the bottom.
Clearly, there is motivation to read his subsequent books to find out things like that (and also to discover what happened to his mother, sister etc.).
The book utilizes the police brutality (the Peri-Urban) and sets the scene for the type of environment within which Mark Mathabane grew up.Chapter two is where Mathabane grabbed my attention and never let it go (Chapter 1 seemed a bit preachy to me), narrating a cold winter day (he was somewhere between 5-7 years old), when he is awakened from his bed on the cold cement floor, by a police raid.
I don't think you can read about South Africa and its historical battles without reading this book.
There is no reason to forget the horrible atrocities of apartheid, and this book truly will open your eyes to a society that is indifferent to differences and creates second class citizens in their own homeland.
If you do not know anything about the subject, this book will serve as a complete eye-opener and education on what the average young family had to go through in Africa in a painful history that did not happen very long ago.
Reading this very easy text will empower you to stand up for ignorance and indifference in your own world as a diplomat for acceptance.

I served as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Republic of South Africa from 2009-2011, so when I read this book, I felt as if I were living behind the eyes of one of my kids I worked with during that time.
In a country with so much beauty and diversity, abject poverty and opulent wealth live right next door to each other sometimes.
This is one of the dichotomies that makes South Africa the rainbow nation it claims to be.
Race relations, haves and have nots, these things come to a head on a daily basis for some people, Mark Mathabane included.
Wow. This book was really an eye-opener. Before I read this, I didn't really know anything about the apartheid. This book was outrageous, but in a good way. It makes you want to go do something about the issues raised. Overall, an excellent read. The author does a good job of including important incidents that help you get inside his everyday life. By the time you get to the end, you will be rooting for this guy to succeed.
I lived and went to school barely 5 minutes away from the Alexandra township, but knew absolutely nothing about life there until I read this book. I even played tennis in the same places Mark Mathabane did without realizing the history.I really wish this was a book that was covered in my high school, as it would have given me a greater understanding of the context that I grew up in.
I read this years ago, and I still think about him...
Inspiring and phenomenal. You feel like you're going through life with Mark (Johannes). Graphic at times so I recommend to ages 14 and up.
However, the third and final portion (Passport to Freedom) - although ending on a bittersweet note, seemed like a big stretch, considering the life Johannes started out living.
The country of South Africa has only been free from apartheid practices for as long as I've been alive.Lastly: the other main reason this gets 3 stars, as opposed to 4 - I realize this is supposed to be an autobiography of sorts, of Mathabane, but I was thoroughly confused with the author's use of names.
At first, I figured it was simply a typo, or some kind of editing oversight, but Johannes is referred to as 'Mark' about four times throughout the course of the book: all in the third portion "Passport to Freedom".
Being anti-apartheid was one of the most effective activist rallying cries of the 1980s, and it remains an emotionally stirring subject for students when presented with it in an intimate and honest manner, as in this book.Mathanabe was, of course, one of the lucky few South African blacks who was able to escape the horrors of his home country in order to become internationally famous, first as a tennis player, and second as a writer.
Despite the happy ending for him, personally, his sense of responsibility prevents it from becoming a too-personal story.I said that the book was disturbing, and it is meant to be.
I read it, because I want to understand the experiences of black people living under apartheid.I thought hearing the unpleasant truths, no matter how it was written, would leave me with more insight and understanding.And to some extent that was true, but mostly this book just felt disingenuous and frustrating.
But, I found it reads like the poorly written ramblings of an emotionally stunted, self-obsessed person.
I wonder if it required him to be emotionally stunted and self-obsessed in order to survive the horrors he did.Undeniably, he’s story was harrowing and important.
In a lot of parts throughout this book there were a lot suspense when I couldn’t wait to see what was going to happen during the raids but at the same time I was putting myself in Johannes (the main characters) shoes and I felt horrible.
But that isn’t always the case for all children and young adults living in the condition of apartheid, Johannes was just lucky enough to be able to get a tennis scholarship and leave but there were still other children and people in south Africa who weren’t lucky enough to leave.
Johannes really struggled throughout this book with apartheid and they way he was treated and told he wouldn’t go anywhere.
Kaffir Boy provided me with a much needed education about apartheid.
Apartheid and those who endorsed it are repulsive, but sadly are among those who repress others out of fear, ignorance, or some purported religious belief.
Kaffir Boy was difficult to read and made me ashamed of fellow humans.
Sadly, outlawing apartheid has not ended the enslavement in South Africa.
I hope his story can inspire other similarly enslaved to fight and that it can inspire the rest of us to help educated folks about what goes on everyday in many parts of the world.
As someone who has only a bare basics knowledge of the mechanics of apartheid, this book was definitely eye-opening. This book is both inspiring and heatbreaking. It also gives a lot of insight into major global issues like poverty and racism and the factors that feed these issues like education, birth control (or lacktherof) and tribal traditions. This book was quite moving and I think it's timely that I read it in 2015. It gives a certain amount of insight into racial issues and allows me to look at some other issues in my own country in a new light.
This book was rather interesting. It was mostly boring and black and white for most of it, some parts were interesting and entertaining but it wasn't a good book for high schoolers and younger teens. Some parts were easily exaggerated and it is remarkable how he remembers all these moments when he was 5 or 7 years old in such detail.
I loved this book. I read it when I was 13 and just starting to get intrested in my South African roots. It's amazing yes it was an autbiography but it felt even more personal it felt like I was reading his diary.
Horrifyingly graphic view of the world of apartheid. It was hard to keep reading, but it is an important book.
The great majority of this brutality is committed black against black, but the whole system was set up and orchestrated by the former white founders and leaders and the then current government of apartheid South Africa.
We want a South Africa where everyone--black, Coloured, white and Indian--is equal before the law.
Well that sounds great but would that be before or after you kill the white population and destroy their property as you earlier stated the black people "would dearly want to do"?
Why couldn't the struggle in South Africa be not one of black against white, but one that pitted those who believed in freedom, justice and equality against those who didn't?"Hmmm.
I suspect that the first time around I would have given it 3 stars.Kaffir Boy is the story of how Mark Mathabane grew up in the absolutely hellish slum of Alexandra in apartheid South Africa.
The entire last segment of the book is spent justifying a decision which ultimately helped pull Mark and his family out of poverty at the expense of the anti-apartheid struggle.
I would have done the exact same thing as Mark given the situation, but the last section reads like more of a defense of the decision rather then an examination of it.
It is a true report of what growing up under apartheid was like for Blacks.Mark was the oldest of 7 children born to an overworked mother who wanted her children to have an education - and a father who still believed in the tribal ways of raising children, being a husband and existing under the rules of apartheid.
But, Mark's mother fought her husband to pay for at least a few of her children to attend school.With the introduction to tennis by kindly white men, Mark began to believe that he might have a future in America.
Johannes, the title character, grows up in incredible poverty and endures unimaginable humiliation at the hands of white people and gang members.
(Kaffir was an insulting way to refer to black people.) Influenced by extremely strong women, his mother and grandmother, he was encouraged to get an education, which wasn’t an easy thing for someone in his situation to do.
The amazing thing is that the family also gave Johannes a tennis racket which turned out to be his ticket out of poverty and out of the country.He taught himself to play tennis and he practiced a lot.
Inspiring and Thought-ProvokingThe book Kaffir Boy by Mark Mathabane is about a family living in the ghetto of South Africa.
Mark was later enrolled into school after his family made enough money from selling beer.
Mark later joined the High-School tennis team and started to play in tournaments organized by the school where he was then noticed by the University of Southern California.
Mark started to become really good and ended up getting a scholarship to attend school and to play tennis with them.
The book is inspiring and tells the story of how Mark fought racism to get where he ended up.
