https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/301082.Dead_Until_Dark
After reading a succession of more serious books, I felt the need to read something light and trashy.
After reading two I just had to skip ahead a few pages any time sex with Sookie looked like it was going to rear its ugly and badly-written head.I know a lot of folks have enjoyed this series, and have devoured every book written by Charlaine Harris.
I can see how a reader might enjoy the books if they had viewed at least some of the series first and kept it in mind while reading Charlaine Harris's less than stellar prose.
(C+) 67% | Almost SatisfactoryNotes: Its supporting characters are flat and uninteresting, the plot’s banal, and the mythology isn’t explored to its potential.
The first book in the Sookie Stackhouse series.
Having spent a huge chunk of my youth hoping the vampires in Anne Rice's novels would knock on my window late at night (shut-up, like you didn't???) I have been looking for the next Brad Pitt with fangs.
And suddenly I stopped laughing and the pages started turning and I found myself thinking about the book when I wasn't reading it and wondering how fast I could get the next book....So glad that there were sparkles on the cover of this book.
I started reading this series because I was currently watching True Blood and had developed a slight obsession with Eric.
Since then, the books have become an absolute guilty pleasure of mine.
They are not the best written and occasionally we get a little too much of what we don't care for (i.e. fairies and shifters) but amid the hot vamp sex and murder mysteries...
who really notices those anyway??Most characters have both annoying and redeeming qualities, but this is good - I never did like the I-can-do-nothing-wrong hero/heroine.
Plus Eric is hot...
That probably sounded like a cheesy, promotional ad but what the hell.
I can't remember if I started the books before the show or started the books after becoming obsessed with the show. But who really cares! I loved this world and still do! Mel 🖤🐺🐾
Harris has in one pinky all the talent of the aforementioned hack, and her huge fan base must take note.
"Dead Until Dark" is a loud middle finger to all those in deep love (& therefore those with questionable tastes) with the "Twilight" series.This book reminds me that not all fiction has to be poetry.
Bill the Vampire lacks the Lestatness of those that came after the Anne Rice novel, but it's okay.
The theme.There are dark inhabitants of the world, some don't have to be vampires or shapeshifters but humans with deep flaws.
I wish I was a writer, important, like Charlaine Harris.
(On the show I believe they are still working toward those rights, but it hasn’t been made entirely clear.) That’s an idea that seems rich with symbolic significance that, correctly handled, could be truly fascinating.Instead, as Harris handles it, it’s just another boring romance between a powerful, possessive alpha male and his frail human woman who’s in need of his protection.
Sookie isn’t, to be fair, as helpless and hopelessly devoted to her man as Bella  Twilight Swan is, but the basic power dynamic between her and Vampire Bill is still incredibly boring.
Sorry guys, I don't think this review is going to go well.I was recently told I was snarky and a cold-hearted, impatient cynic (you know who you are people!^^).
There is only so much I can read about Sookie's daily life: taking a shower, shaving her legs, plucking her eyebrows, putting on body lotion and deodorant… Seriously?
I don't think I've ever read such boring, unexciting, ridiculous, badly written sex scenes.
Needless to say, Sookie and I got off to a bad start.
The vampire/mystery style reminds me of the one Anita Blake book I read, the first one, which was horrible (can't say that enough times) - the similarities aren't obvious or anything, but perhaps because Dead Until Dark isn't paranormal romance, and it's not like The Turning or the Black Dagger Brotherhood books, Anita Blake is the closest comparison.Oh but this book is soooooo much better!
On top of that, the most powerful (and dead gorgeous) vampire in the area, Eric, has his eye on Sookie and her ability for his own uses.Dead Until Dark is a great mix of urban fantasy and mystery, and the crime side of the story didn't bore me a bit.
The television show True Blood was better than this in every sense; it completely transcended it.
The show took Charlaine Harris’s book and made the story better; it made it sexy and scary.
I didn’t find this story remotely exciting; it had no sense of drive, and, again, it lacked the sex appeal of the television show.
This here is the story of just Sookie Stackhouse whereas True Blood expands on the side characters and fleshes them out; they were the ones that make it fun.
I might have enjoyed this one more if Sookie was a bit more relatable.
But Sookie is so emotionally distant and half the time I can't even tell if she's happy or sad or angry or what.
Perhaps I misjudged the intent of the book; maybe it was written more as a murder-mystery than a PNR flick.
But, having watched True Blood before starting this series, my expectations going in were of steaminess and drama with a little spicy mystery mixed in.
I was left a little disappointed.However I'm still soldiering on with the series because THISMMMMmmmmmmmm.
*** 3.44 ***A buddy read with the folks @ FBR... I finally got to read a book that has been on my TBR for many, many years. I own the complete series and have been thinking about starting, only every time I get distracted by something newer and shinier, thus I have to thank FBR for having a buddy read scheduled, because I have a feeling if I didn't get to it now, I never would have...  "...“This was pretty exotic stuff for a telepathic barmaid from northern Louisiana.” ..." This was a short and
I own the complete series and have been thinking about starting, only every time I get distracted by something newer and shinier, thus I have to thank FBR for having a buddy read scheduled, because I have a feeling if I didn't get to it now, I never would have...
Sookie is a waitress in a small town Louisiana, who happens to be a telepath valiantly trying to shield her mind from all the thoughts other people project.
2/7/18 - ON SALE for $2.99:  http://amzn.to/2x4G9ZNReviewed by: Rabid Reads3.5 starsI basically had two separate lives growing up. My main life involved my nurse mother, my pharmacist (legal) father, and two of my three sisters, all living a suburban life just outside of Charlotte, NC. My secondary life involved my biological father and his entire family which was (they’ve since departed) headquartered in Bon Aqua (pronounced “ACK-qua”), TN. Bon Aqua, thusly named for the water that locals lineu
But Sookie is not an idiot, and though she does admittedly have her less-than-stellar moments, Harris ultimately creates a highly capable woman in her.So for the three (or so) of you that haven’t read the books or watched True Blood yet, Dead Until Dark takes place in a world just like ours.
When she follows the three of them out to the parking lot and rescues Bill (the vampire), she begins the series of events that lead to her romantic involvement a vampire.And the timing couldn’t be worse b/c someone is strangling women in Bon Temps (where Sookie lives) who are known to associate with vampires .
3.5 stars This is the first book in the Sookie Stackhouse Series and I did enjoy it but I don't think I will be continuing with this series.
I thought this would be an exception since there was a mystery in the book, and that was the part that I enjoyed.
Welcome to the small town of Bon Temps in Louisiana, where a mid twenty, blonde, blue-eyed waitress named Sookie Stackhouse calls home.
Imagine ‘hearing’ all your dates thoughts, not always a desirable thing, especially if there scrutinizing you.Then one day a stranger arrives in town.
Season one stays very loyal to the book.
Since I remembered the first season I knew who the killer was but that didn't bother me because this book was just so much fun to read.
Bill was just as boring in the book as I remembered him from the show.
I'm hoping in the next book I get more Eric and maybe Bill grows a personality.
This is not Twilight, so if you like your vampires sparkling and brooding this is not the series for you.
A quick, light fun urban fantasy read. Apparently this series is the basis for True Blood. As I don't really watch TV this doesn't mean anything to me! Will definitely continue intermittently and see how the series pans out.
I'm a big fan of the TRUE BLOOD television series.
Since I'm an author and have high hopes of seeing one of my own books turned into a series someday, I picked up the first DEXTER book and DEAD UNTIL DARK to see how TV writers adapted novels for the small screen.
DEXTER blew me away and still ranks as one of the most brilliant "high concept" ideas in horror fiction.Then I read DEAD UNTIL DARK, and you know what?
I need to get over my snooty attitude about paranormal romance, because this is just a flat-out good story.Harris creates a fantastic main character.
I liked Sam, about the only character in the entire book I did like, and how Harris explained him.
She wasn't a sheltered person so I really don't know how she could have been that naive about it all, especially when she knew about how promiscuous her brother was.And as for people saying that's all this book had, it's really not.
The few sex scenes that were written read like bad fanfiction.
You want sex and vampires?
Dead Until Dark barely deserves the two stars I gave it, and really that was only for Sam, the only real character in the entire book.
For people who read Twilight I do not need to tell anything more as this most definitely was a book which heavily inspired Stephenie Meyer.
Sookie is more fleshed out than Bella Swan and unlike Twilight universe the vampires do not sparkle in this series; they glow.
This basically is the whole review.
There is also a mystery in the book to keep things more exciting, but to be fair nobody bothered solving it.
My rating is 2.5 stars rounded up: I do not want to penalize the book for not belonging to my favorite genre.
This was my 4th time reading this and I think my last.
I mean, he was always super boring compared to Eric, but he was a total snoozefest this time for me.
The series gets MUCH better when it moves away from Bill and toward ERIC.Sookie, outside of her telepathy, is just a boring Southern barmaid who wears banana clips and pines for a husband who will one day join the local Rotary club and grab milk for her on the way home from the office - when the sun's still shining.The murder mystery was quite dull as well.
I also loved Harris’s portrait of small town America and in this case it’s unique bar patrons whom I felt like I knew.
To make things even more interesting Sookie can’t hear a word he’s thinking, Bill might just be her perfect match, except of course for the fact that he’s dead.Unfortunately soon after Bill arrives people start turning up dead, in particular waitresses.
As a former waitress (which Harris must also have been at one time) I found the bar scenes realistic and fun.
You may have read the myriad reviews that list the similarities between Charlaine Harris's novels and the Twilight Saga and I can assure you that most of them are true.
Harris refers to her vampires 'glowing', Bill drinks synthetic blood, Sookie can read minds...the list goes on and on.But after finishing this book, what I can assure you is that in so many ways these books are so completely different that they bear no comparison.
The Sookie Stackhouse novels are fun and action-packed where Twilight is contemplative with a more restrained plot.
I'm in that small minority of readers of urban fantasy who hasn't read this series or watched True Blood, the television show based on these books.
After reading this story, I'm not quite sure what all the fuss is about but I'm intrigued enough to continue on.
Harris provides a level of descriptive detail that I found tedious until I listened to a portion of the audio version, recommended by a GR friend.
I'll continue the series but only listening to the audio version.
I liked Sookie, her friends, acquaintances & co-workers and want to see where she goes from here.
Very good. Sookie is lovable
Let's admit it - this is hardly well written, but it's quick and light and fun, and there's something to be said for that.That said, I didn't really like Sookie's voice.
And the dialogue - ugh, who talks like that?
And if people really do talk like that, then I'm glad I don't know them.And there's not much character development to speak of.
Over-the-top melodrama, with thin characters, and horribly bad dialogue.
I'd probably rate it lower, because it was just horribly written and ludicrous, but I liked it, damnit...
I found it amusing on this re-read of the book all I could think about were the television characters.
I really wished that the book focused on the exciting things going on in Sookie's life not on everyday things like cleaning.
I fell in love with characters a long time ago and I understand that this re-read of the book was probably heavily influence by that.
I really had a good time reading about all of these characters and just remembering how these books sucked me into their world years ago.
This book is really a quick and easy read that can be a lot of fun.
(In "True Blood" he always reminded me a bit more of a boring-ass tax accountant than a vampire, he just not vampiric to me....) So, yes, I knew going into the beginning of this series that this book wouldn't really wow me.
I mean, this story has all the things I dislike in Paranormal fantasies: TSTL main character, Boring love interest, one dimensional secondary characters, yawn-worthy writing AND a story-line that is so thinly veiled a toddler could guess it.....
Maybe I’d be more disposed to like this book were I testicle-free, I don’t know, but I can’t help but think that’s an insult to women.Was the author’s poor writing a result of her attempt to sound like a teenage girl?Man, I work with teenage girls, and they don’t sound this stupid.
I don’t think Sookie sounds like a lovestruck teenage girl.
She sounds like a sitcom parody of a lovestruck teenage girl.Some people said you paid too much attention to the writing and should just let go and go with the flow of the plot.
I don’t like bad light, trashy books.
So I've finally read a book by Charlaine Harris. And it was good fun. Good plot, murders to be solved, a nice, well behaved vampire called Bill and some less nice, unscrupulous vampires, a clever girl-next-door called Sookie with an unusual gift and a light, humorous style of writing. Might even read another book in the series one day.
In fact I did go back and read my favourite sections again.I found Sookie to be a smart and feisty main character.
So when she runs into vampire Bill and finds that she is unable to hear his thoughts, she is immediately impressed.
I loved her independence—she does her own dirty work, for the most part, not relying on her boss, Sam, or her brother, Jason, to bail her out.Bill is an interesting vampire, in that he is so different from all the Lords of Darkness that one usually runs across in fiction.
In that regard, his vampirism is a disability, bringing with it unwanted responsibilities and relationships.
