https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30231743-are-we-smart-enough-to-know-how-smart-animals-are
The answer is no - we are no where near smart enough to figure out how smart animals are. Having escaped the Dark Ages in which animals were mere stimulus-response machines, we are free to contemplate their mental lives.   The prevailing theory used to be that animals are all instinct-driven, mute and empty-headed - but that couldn't be further from the truth. While it is true that animals are influenced by their instincts. For example: One can train dolphins to jump synchronously because they d
From what I gathered while reading this novel - we only think animals are dumb because we are absolutely horrible at testing them.So many times, animals have "failed" a test (thus placing them in a lower intelligence bracket) because humans aren't testing either the right way, the right thing or used an inherently unfair method.
For the longest time, scientists thought that elephants were among the few species that couldn't recognize their own faces.
Researchers tested primates on facial recognition skills and found that they were inherently poor at distinguishing subjects.
However, the scientists were testing the primates on their ability to distinguish humans.
Recognizing emotions, having memories across time, having an identity, using tools, cooperation, and more - humans have all of these, but a surprising amount of animals have some or many of these too.
It would be silly to try and ask mice to count, but it would make sense for it to know where food is or where other mice are.
For primates without opposable thumbs, it would not make sense to give them tools designed for us, but ones for the shapes of their hands.
Humans have a grasp of these abstract concepts which were thought unique to us, but animals have a surprising degree of understanding and adaptation.
Animal subjects are being tested by a member of another species (whom they are not necessarily interested in) and in a captive setting that adds to the stress of the situation.
Ask any university student about the stress of exams and they will tell you that it is not an ideal way to take tests.He points out that these studies are hampered by the human tendency to try to set ourselves outside the animal world, to set a barrier between us and the rest of nature.
I cannot give this book less than three stars because it contains lots of totally fascinating information about animals - the greater and lesser apes, whales, octopus, fish, birds and elephants for example.
One more complaint – in comparison to the books listed below, the presentation of the experiments in de Waal’s book does not let readers get close to the animals.
So yes, I do have a bunch of complaints with the way the book is organized, its tone and manner of presenting the data.
And actually, neither do humans need a language in order to think.This book is chock full of examples of animals that have thinking capabilities that are truly astonishing.
For example, there is a bird named Alex that could respond to questions about objects, defining how they are different, their material composition--and not by rote, as they were new, unfamiliar objects, and in the absence of the experimenter.
But this often fails because chimpanzees think of humans as omniscient.There are so many other examples of animal cognition.
I'm going to skip this one. Tried for a few weeks to get through it. Interesting. Two stars means it was OK. But did not rock my boat. If it's meant for plebs like me, then write it in a language I would understand. I guess it's meant for a different audience. A great scientific exercise.
was a book that delved far more in-depth into the field of animal cognition than I had expected.
de Waal presents this book as a series of experiments that serve as counterpoints to those who suggest that animals are incapable of emotion, cognition, planning, etc.
He also spends a great deal of time with the historical precedents for the field's current way of thinking.It works as a sort-of bird's eye view of the field of animal cognition.
de Waal does a good job of convincing the reader to lay down their species-perceived superiority in favour of a more empathetic view of animal cognition.
Frans de Waal’s book ‘Are We Smart Enough to Know How Smart Animals Are?' describes many of these experiments, observations and, to me, proofs many animals are intelligent, albeit an intelligence dependent on the physiognomy of their bodies and on the things needed for their survival in their accustomed environment.De Waal believes experiments are often designed from the human environmental paradigm, or Umwelt, which gives results when interpreted that show a lack of ability or a lack of certain high-level aptitudes, skills and brain function.
Animal brains might work out a different resolution to a problem than we would set up, too.
This much I know about us as a species, so to answer the question that the title of this book suggests, I would have to say, generally, we haven't a clue how smart animals are.
Brains adapt to ecological requirements, as does cognition.In an honest approach to understanding animal cognition, we must demonstrate respect for every living organism and acknowledgement of its capacity to deal with the world on its own terms.
My money is on the deer.Part of the irony of all this is that we measure animal cognition and evolutionary advancement by the fact that they can/cannot use tools.
Apes have even been known to reject an unfair *larger* reward!And re' how to measure physical evidence of a smarter brain (eg, larger doesn't make humans special, because whales and elephants, etc.); “Each octopus has nearly two thousand suckers, every single one equipped with its own ganglion of half a million neurons....
more like the Internet.” That makes me admire Montgomery's recent “The Soul of an Octopus” book even more.Juvenile rhesus and stumptail monkeys were placed together for five months.
While I enjoyed this, I also found it very dry. I thought de Waal had plenty of fascinating insights and recorded studies of how intelligent animals truly are.
Instead, it was a learned response, since the master rewards a dog with a pat or food for that look.
In fact, he debunks the behaviorist position over the book's 300 plus pages.This warm, humane and often funny book introduces the general reader to the science of ethology, or the study of animal behavior.
De Waal implies you need heart to do good behavioral science.
But instead of conceding that apes (or jackdaws or dogs) are smart, psychologists move the bar.
Since instead of placing human cognition on a continuum, it seeks to set us apart.A refreshing book.
We get the insight into the animal kingdom, with an emphasis on apes and monkeys, that we've seen in books like The Bonobo and The Atheist, The Age of Empathy, and Our Inner Ape. In this book, De Waal takes a close look at various ways of trying to understand animal cognition and goes in-depth into such topics as problem solving, communication, self-awareness, and relationship to events past and present, i.e. memory and planning for the future.
In order to more fully understand the cognitive abilities of our animal friends, we must be able to shed the human bias that expects them to have the same abilities as we do.
“Are we open-minded enough to assume that other species have a mental life? Are we creative enough to investigate it? Can we tease apart the roles of attention, motivation, and cognition? Those three are involved in everything animals do; hence poor performance can be explained by any one of them.”  if you love animals, you'll probably love this book I love animals and I really liked this book. It was so interesting to read about all the different tests and case studies of animals and animal co
It was so interesting to read about all the different tests and case studies of animals and animal cognition.
This book is so easy to follow, it goes along chronically to explain the history of the study behind animal cognition and as it goes, gives lots of real life examples and stories of animals that were studied.
I found these stories SO interesting and some of them were genuinely mind-blowing.
It is amazing what animals can do and I never realised a lot of it until I read this book!As mentioned, this was really easy to read and I didn't think it was dry at all even though it's a non-fiction.
O siamo semplicemente i più pericolosi, vanitosi, egoisti ecc...?Mark Twain diceva in merito: "È tipico della vanità e dell'impertinenza dell'uomo definire stupidi gli animali perché così gli appaiono ai suoi sensi ottusi."Fortunatamente non siamo tutti così ed infatti in questo libro ci sono un'infinità di esempi, test, esperimenti, curati da scienziati, come l'autore di questo saggio, che ci presentano testimonianze che anche gli animali hanno una loro cognizione mentale e..."Invece di fare dell'umanità la misura di tutte le cose, dobbiamo valutare le altre specie per ciò che 'esse' sono.
Humans have always used animals as a natural resource, justifying the killing of our fellow creatures in various ways, but mainly by assuming they are not like us.
When chimpanzees beat human children at video games or birds understand our language or elephants remember people after years, we need to rethink the nature of consciousness.
This book is revealing in two ways – animals are a lot more like us than we believe, and we’re still a whole lot like them.— James Wallace Harrisfrom The Best Books We Read In November 2016: http://bookriot.com/2016/12/01/the-be...
It includes history on the beliefs of animal cognition and research, and how much people have learned over the years.
I went into this book already open-minded about how smart animals are, I already believed they are often smarter than people give them credit for, and I was still amazed and learned so much!
He obviously has a love for animals as well as science, both of which shined through the book.
I love how one of the things stressed is the importance of well-constructed experiments.
Experiments that fit the animal in question, their temperament, anatomy, etc.
I think this is exactly the book I would recommend to anyone that use the phrase “dumb animal,” because I’ve never read a book that explores their intelligence better.
I’m not a scientist, just a reader interested in this subject, and what I think he does best with this book is to make the theoretical aspects of this readable.
I’ve read a quite a bit of non fiction over the years, and I can honestly say that even if a writer knows his subject better than anyone else, that doesn’t always mean they can write a readable book.
De Waal can write, and this was an enjoyable read.
O tipo de argumento que cabe muito mais em um livro um tanto auto-biográfico do que um artigo.São vários exemplos muito legais e bem atuais de como animais (quanta rima) como elefantes, corvos, baleias, golfinhos, todo tipo de macacos, lobos, cães e até lontras são capazes de mostrar pensamento inteligente.
Além do uso de ferramentas e desenvolvimento de cultura em várias classes animais distintas, o que indica o surgimento desse tipo de inteligência mais de uma vez.Em particular me agradou a postura meio "biólogo experiente, feliz com a área de trabalho e disposto a explicar" que ele adota ao longo do livro, misturando os argumento e exemplos de artigos com experiências pessoais cuidando de primatas em zoológicos.
And we have the hubris to start with the believe that we are better, smarter, superior.The claim that only humans can mentally hop onto the time train, leaving all other species stranded on the platform, is tied to the fact that we consciously access past and future.
Either we abandon the idea that these capacities require consciousness, or we accept the possibility that animals may have it, too.Here is one paragraph that makes it clear both of the lack of humanity in experiments, but also on why they may fail, not allowing animals the best conditions to thrive:There is the quality of life issue.
Awesome book!
I loved it.
From the content, to the choice of words.
I loved how he showed that sometimes "skepticism" is actually pseudo-skepticism which results from our eagerness to know ourselves as something special and different from all the other organisms, which the author -rightly so- names "Anthropocentrism".I loved this book.
It shows the shortcomings of the field of ethology and how they can be fixed.
And also how much evidence our society is underrating, even though many of them are right in our face and slapping us like: You idiot!
I enjoyed this book, It was a enjoyable read and I would recommend it.
Are we open-minded enough to assume that other species have a mental life? Are we creative enough to investigate it? Can we tease apart the roles of attention, motivation, and cognition? Those three are involved in everything animals do. Like many of the other first year Liberal Arts university students I knew at the time, I took a lot of Intro courses (Intro to Psychology, Intro to Philosophy, Intro to Sociology), and these were for the most part fascinating enough to me that I broadened my sa
Now, I still enjoy reading pop science and sampling what's new in the fields that have long intrigued me, but I didn't find this book to be terribly engaging: my mind kept wandering, I was rarely wowed by the illustrative anecdotes, and I didn't find the writing style to be very interesting; since I didn't know there had been this decades-long war between the two sides, de Waal's conclusion that accepted theory has shifted from the Psychologists' viewpoint to that of the Ethologists isn't paradigm-shattering to me.
He is careful to not oversell nonhuman cognition while providing a mixture of stories, experiments and observations to back his points.
Does a wonderful job of explaining the most important topic of this book, animal cognition.
The book provides interesting examples that includes animals beyond de Waal’s expertise of primates.
“With animals such as chimpanzees, elephants, and crows, for which we have ample evidence of complex cognition, we really do not need to start at zero every time we are struck by seemingly smart behavior.”13.
I've already pre-ordered it so that I can read it again in print and underline things that strike me and write love notes along the margins.
This is the book I wanted to write and I am thrilled that someone eminently more qualified and clever than me has done so.
Frans De Waal's "Are We Smart Enough to Know How Smart Animals Are?" introduces readers thoughtfully and humorously to the evolution of our study of animals bringing us smoothly to the present.
De Waal gently shifts paradigms so that we might consider that cognition, intelligence and communication may not rest solely in the hands of humankind.
Fascinating read. Written by primatologist Frans de Waal, this is an astonishing study of animal intelligence. Did you know that Apes plan for the future? Or that elephants fetch boxes to reach a branch? Animals are amazing! So glad to see more information coming out on this. Thank you NetGalley and the publisher for an ARC in exchange for an honest review. YAY! I see (Dec. 12, 2016) that this won in the awards for Best Science for GR 2016. I did vote for it. If you weren't sure before, now can be! Go read it today!
In our culture, the two categories of fauna are humans and animals (not wombats and non-wombats).In the last 20 years, new research has been inspiring doubt in many long-held beliefs, including the notion that rationality is exclusively human.
“The chimps outperformed the humans, reaching optimal performance more quickly and completely than members of our own species.”Like many social animals, primates excel at imitation and conformity, which can have great survival value.
I have watched healthy wild animals survive long frigid winters without tools, fire, or clothing — a way of life that would promptly kill me.We are like fish out of water, space aliens.
Primarily there is and has been for centuries a large disagreement between behavioral and a more singular cognition brain use re animals studies.
Wanting to read the animal tale examples and not so much all the scientific mesh they were placed within.
IMHO, it has more to do with how we (this author or any scientific select question) connote and define "smart" than just about the animals' owning it too.
And here, you do get that aspect of his opinion that it is not centered in behavioral pattern alone, but still- there is not sufficient definition of "smart" for me.
De Waal is interested in the topic of what he calls evolutionary cognition -- which refers to the study of how animals think, feel, degrees of consciousness, etc.
He has been one of the foremost critics, in the past 20 years, of Behaviorism and proponents of ethology (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ethology).
Rich in anecdote, the discussion of many different studies, of problems of scientific method (in this controversial field), and willing to probe the philosophical implications of his studies, the book is both illuminating and (to this layman, at least) persuasive.Less authoritative, perhaps, but better written and more moving, is Carl Safina's Beyond Words:https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
De Waal presents us with a new field he refers to as evolutionary cognition, which recognises that nimals have the sort of intelligence they need to succeed in their environment and lifestyle, their Umwelt.
Analogous evolution occurs when distantly related animals evolve in the same direction, as with the sensitivity to faces in wasps and primates, which came about independently and is based on the need to recognise individual group mates (p75).Most of the case studies he uses are from primate research, some other mammals, some birds, some insects and fish.
The book is about various studies and often behavioural experiments that are done on various types of animals like monkeys and birds and dolphins and elephants to show that they have a degree of cognition which would have been scientific blasphemy (oxymoron / interesting title for a book?) if that had been said even a hundred years ago.
He had learnt to stomp on a subtle movement his owner made at a certain point in time rather than being a mathematical genius •	A Japanese macaque (type of monkey) one day decided to wash her sweet potato before eating it.
