https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/783310.Powers_of_Horror
At least to me.The (Anal)ogy of the TurdLet's return to that repressed scene in the lab at the top as a way of discussing Kristeva's categories of The Real, The Imaginary, and The Symbolic Order; we are organisms; we consume, we metabolize; we poop; this the the irreducible material fact of the matter: This is The Real.The Imaginary is that mental phase, or that facet of conscious selfhood's structure, where we have representations in our minds of the things in the world around us, of things that are "other," but which have not been totally subsumed by and defined within the context of social consensus, language, law, science, etc.
Reading this book makes you feel like you're uncovering the darkest, most sinister secrets of the universe.
In fact, I'm fairly certain I read somewhere that the first edition of Powers of Horror was bound in human flesh and inked in blood, but I might be thinking of something else.
Admittedly, parts of it will be near-incomprehensible the first time through (unless you wrote your dissertation on Lacan, I suppose).
But you'll more than likely be goaded into a second reading anyway by Kristeva's fucking gorgeous writing.
The final chapter alone justifies the work it takes to get through the preceding ten.
One of the heaviest theory-books I've ever read; starting the first chapter I was ready to give up, but couldn't, due to the fact that I had to write a report on it.
At times I felt like crying, especially after having dragged myself through fifty pages in six to eight hours and I felt like I'd understood nothing at all.
That which I understood and agreed with were so eloquently put I kept exclaiming "That's how it really is!".
So all in all, pretty good, I think.And I managed to write that report.
The only real downside to this book is that reading it requires you to translate every damn thing from Freud to Makes-Sense. To be clear: there's a high amount of Makes-Sense in this book, but it requires you to read each instance of the word "phallus," for example, as "concept of the law," etc.I'd be interested in seeing what someone from a non-psychoanalytic background could do with the basic ideas in this book...
Bullshit bullshit can also bullshit."And then, to a certain extent, she turns it around with an account of horror and prohibition in the Old Testament, how that relates to Judaeo-Christian and Platonic concepts.
Then she takes it to even higher heights with this simultaneously adulating and excoriating criticism of Louis-Ferdinand Céline, and it's one of the few pieces of literary criticism that reaches the brilliance of a Susan Sontag or a Walter Benjamin.So just ignore that crap in the middle, even if it's supposed to be a theoretical underpinning.
The rest is great.
EAT THIS THING EAT IT AND BE COVERED IN YOUR OWN
The power of her work however is that she is able to connect the appeal of horror, of the abject, to the concept of the sublime in a way that finally investigates why we enjoy an attraction to things that would seem only to repulse any sane creature.
We tend to think that animals flee from danger or repulsion, but many are curious to a degree just as humans are, and any psychobiological connections someone as adept on the topic as Kristeva could draw might be very useful.
In Pouvoirs de l'horreur Kristeva explores abjection, a condition which is fundamental in the formation of identity, where the "abject" subject acts in a transgressive revolt of the Oedipal (sexual) identity and of the sexual specificity.
For Kristeva, abjection is that which can be experienced as disgust (le dégoût), the body's reaction, phobic or revolting, against the polarization of fusion and separation.
Questions of identity, boundary crossing, and exile, Pouvoirs de l'horreur, states that the abject subject prevents the return to the archaic maternal figure, for it revolts itself against the boundaries that separates it from her.
After reading some of the reviews here I was a little worried that I was not going to like this "essay".
I challenge anyone to read this and not come away with a new perspective.
Some of the negative reviews have focused on how challenging the book is to read.
The theory itself is not challenging but rather the translation is.
Leon Roudiez (who died in 2004 I believe) translated several of Kristeva's works and I did enjoy reading those but the translation he did for this book seems a little off.
إن اللاشعور كما هو معروف مكان الرغبة والأحداث المكبوتة،وبالتالي سيكون الرمزي نتاج لما هو اجتماعي على
I’m a little nonplussed here, after reading two pages I thought this was going to be a good read, a slow read, but a good one.
I couldn’t find an argument, so I ventured on in search of pathos, after not really giving much kudos to any of the readings to writers I am very fond of – Dostovesky, Proust, Celine – I skim read the rest looking for anything of interest.After spending several years reading French theoretical texts I no longer lack the stamina or patience to care about what half of what is said in them.
A challenging book that compasses the detailed analysis of abjection within the context of psychoanalysis literature, religious cultures and contemporary art. Kristeva extends her distinction of abjection between semiotic and the symbolic that she theorized in Revolution in Poetic Language. In Powers of Horror, she further explores abjection, and its relation with the authority of religion, morality, politics, and language that comes through the repression of horror of the abjected body.
First read in 2008: "Beautifully written and completely impossible to understand at times. I still don't get why sperm isn't abject...I don't know. If you like reading about poop, this is the book for you."Much more comprehensible after reading the Girard, Freud, Lacan, and Bataille she's referencing.
Gave up around the halfway point.
The good stuff reminded me of Anzaldúa's Borderlands.
The rest was Freud.
Unfortunately, there was a lot of Freud.
I gave up when JK started referencing non-European cultures' gender dynamics...
without acknowledging that some of those cultures include non-binary genders.
Whether she wasn't aware of that information or left it out because it didn't fit her argument, I have no idea.
Another reviewer mentioned that once you get past this middle but, the good stuff comes back and her critiques become as brilliant as Sontag's--I've never read Sontag, but exploring her work sounds like a better use of my time at this point.
Čitala sam neku grozno prevedenu verziju, prepunu grešaka. Kao da nisam čitala. -.-
In this essay, Kristeva contrasts Lacan's "objet petit a." She writes, "It is not the white expanse or slack boredom of repression, not the translations and transformations of desire that wrench bodies, nights, and discourse; rather it is a brutish suffering that, "I" puts up with, sublime and devastated, for "I" deposits it to the father's account [verse au pere—pere-uersion]: I endure it, for I imagine that such is the desire of the other." Religion and art, says Kristeva, are two ways of "purifying" the abject.
She concludes her essay by revealing the importance of the abject in its ties to politics and religion; the most powerful - yet inhumane and oppressive - institutions built on the notion that we must be protected from the abject.

Kristeva situates the historical fear of 'the abject' within judeo-christian mythology and further illustrates her vision with support from literature, namely the work of french novelist Louis-Ferdinand Céline. The last third of the essay is dedicated to a discussion of Céline's writings, but the theory preceding her analysis should benefit anyone interested in queer theory, deconstruction, the horror genre, or any of their intersections.
If you're able to get past all the Lacanian psychoanalytic gobbledygook and what seems to me to be a very casual understanding of the cultures of several indigenous people groups (I don't have any background on any of the said groups, so I can hardly be critical of Kristeva, but her tone and the sources from which she draws are red flags), there are some very interesting things said about abjection and the self in this book. I look forward to incorporating it into my own research.
Abjection: an incredibly complex, compelling, difficult and compelling idea. Kristeva's text is equal ponderously dense and incredibly beautiful and yields overwhelmingly insightful details at every (re)reading.
If I could recommend one book on literary theory to people who aren't otherwise interested in the field, it would probably be this one. Moving, thoughtful and well-written; it can change the way you experience reading.
An interesting spin on the uncanny's darker cousin, abjection.
gotta love the progression of abomination to sin to fascist celine.
Kristeva takes aim at the fallacy that disillusion of identity would result in a radically homogeneous space.
This mischaracterization is based on the premise that identity is, in fact, what distinguishes people when it is in fact simply giving a name to (and, in turn, homogenizing) those things that distinguish people.
If the abject is somehow dangerous, the drive to turn away from it is a superegoic intervention into the subject to protect 'physical' or mental health depending on the circumstance.
Simply thinking of both as dimensions of abjection and having a relationship to the construction of the social order is crucial.Kristeva also offers powerful accounts of psychoanalytic case studies and literature itself.
I also sometimes found her writing style frustrating - the amount of commas!
Or: she, meaning Kristeva, feels, that is, experiences an emotion or desire, the need, and not a want, but a need, to clarify, to explain, to elucidate, almost, and by almost I of course mean not all, every word, or turn of phrase, that she uses, or, rather, writes.
I understand that that's the way of theorists but it's so frustrating to extract her meaning sometimes.Despite those frustrations, I love the theory of abjection and her work on it is incredibly important.
Meu conhecimento limitado sobre psicanálise e a obra de Céline (o nazista, não a canadense) prejudicou um bocado a minha absorção desse livro. Ainda assim, ele tem uns momentos que me parecem geniais. Infelizmente, estão perdidos no meio de um texto (ao que parece) confuso e desorganizado, que passa por muitos lugares interessantes mas não parece chegar a lugar nenhum, que começa tomando um rumo e de repente muda TOTALMENTE de sentido, mais ou menos como um episódio dos Simpsons, mas não tão engraçado.
3.5 An Essay on abjection? More like a fancy excuse to talk about your favourite author for literally half of the book. The first half was helpful, interesting and beautifully written, if not easy to read. The rest was an analysis of Celine. I would have found it a lot more helpful had she used different authors to proof her point. But oh well.
I used this for a project in class and probably completely misunderstood it and bit off more than I could chew, but was nonetheless a fascinating read! I am personally not a fan of Freud and tend to automatically lose interest whenever he's mentioned, but this delves into enough gore and gruesome psychology to maintain my intrigue. Read it back in March and completely forgot to add it, whoops!EDIT: I got a really good grade on that essay, thanks Kristeva
At times moving and well-written; it might change the way you experience reading but I found it demanding at times. I did enjoy regardless and think this is a thoughtful work.
