https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40963358-dhalgren
Kid and author Samuel Delany share much in common: 1) mixed racial identity: Kid is half-white, half American Indian, 2) fluid, gender hopping sexuality - Kid has oodles of sex with both men and women, and 3) a past bout of mental illness resulting in hospitalization.
Three of my favorite parts: 1) discussions on the nature of poetry, art and literature with Ernest Newboy, aged poet and Bellona’s version of Obi-Wan Kenobi; 2) the magical mystery tour aspect of the scorpions, those colorful, vivid, holographic images enveloping certain gang members; 3) the postmodern twists in the long concluding chapter undercutting, questioning and challenging any sense of normality in our perceiving the world and reading Dhalgren, the very novel we hold in our hands.
”I have to keep mentioning this; timelessness because the phenomenon irritates the part of the mind over which time’s passage registers, so that instants, seconds, minutes are painfully real; but hours--much less days and weeks--are left-over noises from a dead tongue.” Something has happened in the city of Bellona. It has been cut off from the rest of the United States; most of the citizens have fled, and now you can only reach the city on foot across a dilapidated bridge. In Roman Mythology, B
Kid meets a girl named Layna, who mesmerizes people when she plays the harmonica, another reference to Pan and his pipes.
Delany and Hacker lasted 14 years with a series of lovers of both sexes, which allowed them to explore sex in a kaleidoscope of variations.As Kid says at one point as he is washing up after a night of debauchery: ”Pleasure is an appalling business.” The suspension of rules in Bellona would appeal to Delany.
Delany looking strangely like Orson Welles.I would read a hundred pages or so of this book and then set it aside to read other books.
Dhalgren is a terrible work of genius.
It is also a terribly dull read.
Absolutely stunning work.Of course, the characters are unbelievably boring, the story is filled with lots of meaningless babble with no action, no one seems to have any real motivation to do anything (and when they do it is silly and pointless), and much of the content is social commentary on late-60s/early-70s culture but without any real bite.
If you can overlook the absence of an engaging story and want to experience a completely unique literary structure, then give Dhalgren a read.
If you want to actually enjoy reading a book, I suggest a pass.
So much is happening and very little of it has a straight-line plot unless you tackle this in seven sections and treat it as a mystery rite each time in the full awareness that Delaney is messing with us heavily.In what way, you ask?Ignore the fact that this reads more like a heavily-invested tome of mythic allusions in the style of the greats of traditional fiction and focus instead on the topics that Delaney holds closest to his heart: Sex and Literary Criticism.
There's always enough food, there's no law and order, big population pressure is out of the picture, and then there's a few unexplained weirdnesses usual with magical realism, too.
I do appreciate a well-crafted literary adventure or statement, but when a book gets compared to Ulysses, the reader has certain perceptions and ideas going into it and all too often it’s to figure out what the writer’s intent is to begin with.
This isn’t a journey I should have taken and I apologize to my fellow buddy readers – le Ginger and Stepheny for even suggesting it to them.I don’t forget why I read books and the number one reason I do is to be entertained and not to be bored to tears or dread picking the book up every day and that's "something".
when one more trudge down the street puts you into a reverie where you feel utterly lost).In it, a nameless guy with a faulty memory (that's why he's nameless--though otherwise his recall is excellent, he forgets vast stretches of time and loses days, weeks, even years of his life) who gets called the Kid steps into a bizarre city where something has happened to bring its population down to 1,000 or so misfits who don't do much but gossip, the sky is covered in strange clouds and you never see the sun, two moons appear at night, and time sometimes runs differently for different people.
Dhalgren, by Samuel R Delany, has been my favorite book since I first read it in 1979.
And with almost 900 pages of small font in paperback, there are a lot of words.Dhalgren is my favorite book of all time and I'm planning on reading it at least one more time before I die....
If you like Dhalgren, you should definitely read Triton, which I have also read three times.
His Neveryon series is of the fantasy genre and therefore doesn't compare to his science fiction writing style, although those books do continue his explorations of sex, sexuality, and power in social relationships.
Whatever request for complicity, in whatever labyrinth of despair, it made of the listener, whatever demand for relief from situations which were by definition unrelievable, these requests, these demands could only be made of the very new to such labyrinths, such situations. And time, even as he munched flat bread, was erasing that status.Today, however, art is about the only thing that can redeem religion, and the clerics will never forgive us that. When the canon comes crumbling down, who wil
It depends on what you think of the way the rest of the world is living.In a society where they are on top, they cling like drowners to their active/passive, male/female, master/servant, self/other set-up not for pleasure, which would be reasonable, but because it allows them to commit or condone any lack of compassion among themselves, or with anyone else, and that (at least in this society, as they have set it up) is immoral, sick and evil; any madness is preferable to that.
Paranoid fantasies are all very well, but that's what good writing is for if the cult masters in my Norton Anthology are anything to go by.
I feel this novel was written in blood, sweat and tears rather than ink of paper, and I am left with a recurring image of the main character (the Kid) compulsively picking up a notebook and a pen and trying to put down in words the crazy world he has been thrown in.Bellona - the city where every rule is broken, where every social convention no longer apply, where the laws of physics play hopscotch with the five senses and where people who have lost themselves seek refuge and an answer to the meaning of life.
to wound the autumnal city ... I have come toDhalgren is theUnreal City Under the brown fog of a winter noon—TS ElliotThis is a difficult book to review, difficult to put one's thought's and feelings into words, the written word is perhaps insufficient to the task (a meme of this novel, I think). Following are some random thoughts.Overall I found it engaging, for reasons I cannot express; I was compelled to get back to reading, as compelled, perhaps as The Kid was to writing. I read Dhalgren fro
I have come toDhalgren is theUnreal City	 Under the brown fog of a winter noon—TS ElliotThis is a difficult book to review, difficult to put one's thought's and feelings into words, the written word is perhaps insufficient to the task (a meme of this novel, I think).
Following are some random thoughts.Overall I found it engaging, for reasons I cannot express; I was compelled to get back to reading, as compelled, perhaps as The Kid was to writing.
I read Dhalgren from front to back, though one could open the book at random and just start reading without losing anything.
The way Delany uses shifts in narrative perspective to indicate shifts in Kid's perceptions is stunning.Bellona is also an incredible accomplishment of imagination.
There are long stretches where you keep reading for the beauty of the language rather than interest in the storyline, but it all comes together in the end.In closing, I'd also like to note that Delany's memoir The Motion of Light in Water provides great insight into the inner workings of Dhalgren.
At the same time—" he turned another page—"nothing is quite as humbling, after a very little while, as realizing how close one has already come to dropping it a dozen times oneself, having been distracted — heavens, no!
With only a little practice, you get so you can read both legends at once, without having to stop what you're doing to turn the thing around.
The thing you have been baring, not to mention staring through all this time has become an immense prism.” Newboy leaned back now, his eyes somewhere on the underside of the balcony.
It is more a matter of allowing the reader to experience perceptual shifts in the same way that a Necker cube can be viewed.”My own reading is that Bellona is like the inside of Schrodinger’s box where the cat is both alive and dead: Kidd, or the Kid, is both insane and not insane; Bellona is both burning in a cataclysm and not burning.
To me, it felt that Bellona was a means of presenting the 1970s counterculture in a setting where it would come across to us, the reader, as normal and the standard culture would come across as crazy.
Delany's sci-fi when I was young, and all the way up through "Einstein Intersection" (aka "A Fabulous, Formless Darkness") and "Nova", I loved his work.
The same kind of thing happened to Piers Anthony and Roger Zelazny, but it their cases it was simply the lure of quick, large paychecks for Bad Fantasy Novels.
Delany...fell into another trap.
I've tried on three occasions to plow through this novel, and every time I do...I just throw up my hands after a couple of hundred pages.
"Dhalgren" is...a severe disappointment by an author who once gave a new, exciting face to sci-fi.
I am limited, finite and fixed.
I am in terror of the infinity before me, having come through the one behind bringing no knowledge I can take on.What an odd, warped achievement.
Delany provides us a reimagined Ellisonian treatise on Invisibility and Impermanence.
He paints a city of possibility and then wipes his creation into a blotchy blur.
Delany also eviscerates the idea of the homo faber.
The smoky streets deliberately blur as the questions of Art, Race and Sex are lost (or are left incomplete) in the urban caverns.
It is deliberate and occasionally artful.
Be wary prospective readers.
Be wary.
Or perhaps infinite loops gathered in a singularity.It is the story of a city that falls appart in unclear crisis, tears a hole straight through America, and becomes a dreamlike non-place: smoke-swept, flame-licked, partially abandoned and wholly forgotten, socially volatile and facilitative and instructive.It is a narrative labyrinth whose many questions and vaguely suggested answers, in the way of many such intricate dream-voyages, are less interesting and significant than the paths traced between them by the vivid raw conjuration of the words and action.Delany is full of (and unafriad to face) Big Ideas.
If that sounds good to you then stop reading here - there'll be spoilers abound.If you've already read it and are left with a question mark over your head and need some reassurance that you're not a complete idiot, please keep reading.For those of you who haven't read it and prefer reading reviews to books here's the low down on the plot:A man without a name arrives in an American city, Bellona, aflame and in ruins, it has suffered an unknown disaster.
Kid finds a place among them in the ever changing landscape of the city, time and reality itself.Onwards to my thoughts.The so-called reputation it has:When I finished reading the book I went straight to Google searching for an analysis of it (don't cringe purists, it's the age we live in).
Of course, Dhalgren was not written by a white man, or a straight white man, but a gay black man, and maybe it'll take some time before such a progressive sci-fi novel comes from the good ship straight white dudes, but in the meantime, let's appreciate Dhalgren and the Left Hand of Darkness, and let's toss the Good Ship a bone because Gibson really is just that good.This is all worth mentioning not just because it's always worth mentioning, but because race and gender and sexual orientation are at the heart of Dhalgren, every bit as much as the mysterious city is.
I agree with that.Jo Walton on Tor.com calls it "impenetrable" but goes on to say that it "deliberately doesn't make sense." She also talks about this concept of civilization being taken away.
Once I understood what had happened that made Bellona, the mythical city where everything in this book takes place, I would then understand the book.
Maybe that’s the only city I can live in.”
The city remains apart for reasons that aren't explained, and this works for some people, the people who stay.
While Bellona and the people Kidd encounters are interesting, the book is essentially plotless with Delaney teasing readers frequently with inexplicable events and possibly profound insights that flutter just outside of the reader’s understanding.
Maybe the most profound thing Delaney says is his statement on page 685 that “balling a couple of dozen people in one night is merely a prerequisite for understanding anything worth knowing.” William Gibson was known to say that Dhalgren is a riddle never meant to be solved.
Or maybe, like several of the denizens of Bellona, the Emperor has no clothes.
So I started counting.On the first six pages alone, the word "wind" appears eight times.
That's ten times in the first six pages that Delany falls back on the wind to somehow add imagery to his scene.
The words "leaves" or "leafy" appear ELEVEN times.
the same one that gets G.R.R. Martin into so much trouble over "mythifying the female" but somehow raises Delany's work to the status of a SF masterpiece, is mentioned SEVEN TIMES in those six pages.
On the first six pages, Delany manages to say "hair" NINE SEPARATE TIMES, and reference it once more on top of that.
The words, like the wind, are simply there.
There is hope for me yet!If I were a book snob, I would probably have to write some sort of encomium for Dhalgren that reiterates the views of those like Gibson.
This accomplishment alone, however, is probably enough to make Dhalgren a good, if not great, work of science fiction.While still on the subject of sex and sexuality in Dhalgren, I would be remiss not to discuss Delany's depiction of homosexuality and bisexuality in characters like Tak and the Kid himself.
Scorpions, come out and plaaaay!I don't recall much about The Warriors (saw it a long time ago and was probably drinking at the time) but that screenshot could easily be a scene from Dhalgren: The matching vests!
The unbridled homoeroticism!Dhalgren doesn't have much plot to speak of; most of the action is character-based.
The protagonist does a lot of urban exploration whilst getting into the occasional gang fight and/or sex orgy.
I recommend getting into the groove by watching Easy Rider or Beyond the Valley of the Dolls or something of the sort.
However, unless you enjoy tackling experimental and challenging literary reads, and have a good education in ancient mythology, and do not mind 1960's-1970's baby-boomer boundary-busting of everything sexually holy and sacred, do not read this novel.'Dhalgren' is a book of ideas which often lights the brain up like a Scorpion gangbanger's light shield (a hologram projecting device invented by the author) because its concepts and language can be startlingly amazing despite many many many seemingly endless trudges through pages and pages of wordy art-critic exposition or through long and plodding chapters of the repetitive and dull meaningless activities of homeless street people and aimlessly unproductive violent gangs (heavy with symbolic representation of the Human Condition).One way, gentle reader, I can think to test your resolve in tackling difficult reads, is to present you with one of the puzzles the author used: Dhalgren = Grendel.
Would you care to share with us the precise nature of the stories or novels which qualify as such, or have you not, as I strongly suspect, actually read any of his work?
Or is it instead the case, as I suspect, that you have allowed yourself to fall foul of the cliché that if it's SF, then by its very nature, some of his work must be bad?”That’s, more or less, how I answered someone who commented on the novel’s review back then.More stuff on the other side of the Field.
Re-read made me subtract a star.Some books are so into themselves that they defy reading.
(This is a bad thing.)Unbelievably repetitive to such an extent that it can't be excused away with that all-grace-saver, "That's the point."I have five pages in this that I really enjoyed: one of them is pg 285.
I can't remember the others.I didn't read this all the way through this time.
I did the first time, but it didn't do that much good because I don't remember any of it.Delany is hit-and-miss: why this is one of his most popular books, I've no idea, but I also have no way to fairly assess this book given that it captures a mood that no longer exists...Read something else.
No. No no no. What? No. Get a second shoe. Take a shower. Stop sleeping with everyone. Simultaneously.
Probably 2.5 stars....There is a lot going on in this novel—lots of references to mythology, I think there are deliberate parallels to Joyce’s Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man, and a lot of exploration of what it means to be an artist and to live an artistic life.Our unnamed protagonist begins the adventure when he encounters (and has sex with) a woman who turns into a tree, a dryad.
There is an especially interesting scene when, during the launch party for Kid’s book, another poet critiques his work harshly—not a safe course of action when Kid has his orchid and a loyal gang of Scorpions along with him.
I like to think I had moments where I thought I understood what was happening, or the direction in which it was going, but it never quite gelled in the right way.
(Except to my brother, and I'm curious what my boyfriend would think, but really, that's it.) It's not a book for everyone, and I wouldn't even know what kind of person it would good for anyway.
I think it was good for me because I enjoyed loved reading it.
When I think about what makes Reading exciting to me, it's because of books like this.
“Just stop it.” op it, ghter grew ew.and you have no immediate way of knowing whether it’s an OCR error when the ebook was put together, a typesetting error when the original printed book was put together, or whether it was meant to say that, you know you’re dealing with no ordinary text.[1]Dhalgren is a long, cryptic, and weirdly hypnotic book.
Reading this long book forces you to live the dissolution that its central character experiences.
