https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/871294.Z
Το ξαναδιάβασα, κοντά 30 χρόνια μετά την πρώτη φορά, με άλλα μάτια, άλλες γνώσεις. Η ιστορία είναι γνωστή, αληθινή και συγκλονιστική από μόνη της. Η γραφή του Βασιλικού εξαιρετική, δυνατή και ξεκάθαρη, χωρίς περιττούς "φιόγκους". Ένα από τα καλύτερα έργα της νεοελληνικής λογοτεχνίας, το 'χει αποδείξει ο χρόνος έτσι κι αλλιώς.Να σημειώσω πως η καινούρια έκδοση των εκδόσεων Gutenberg είναι προσεγμένη, και το επίμετρο της Γ. Φαρίνου-Μαλαματάρη διαφωτιστικό.
Αφήγηση ρέουσα, ζωντανή, με έντονο ρυθμό. Τα μόνα σημεία που με χάλασαν ήταν αυτά που περιγράφεται η διαδρομή της ψυχής και τα χωρία που η σύζυγος και και ο Πηρουχάς απευθύνονται σε β' πρόσωπο στον εκλιπόντα. Μάλλον ήταν πιο λυρικά και συναισθηματικά από όσο θα ήθελα ή απ' όσο ταιριάζει στην ποιότητα της γενικότερης αφηγηματικής δομής που συγκροτείται από την αρχή του έργου.
Ενα βιβλίο το οποίο διαφημίστηκε από την ομώνυμη κινηματογραφική ταινία. Βιβλίο ντοκουμέντο έχει πλέον βάλει τη δική του σφραγίδα στην σύγχρονη ελληνική βιβλιογραφία
And for that reason, also for the reason that I came across this novel by virtue of seeing the list of 1000 novels that people should read in their lifetime by The Guardian, I decided to pick this up from the library.So what is this about?This novel presents a rather thinly fictionalized account of the assassination of Greek politician Grigoris Lambrakis, who was murdered by elements of the Greek junta in 1963.
The thing this book is very good in portraying is the fact that there is a small ruling class, a military junta, where all the riches go, and the rest are poor and illiterate, surviving on a few drachma a day.
Ne bir şizofrenin ani ışık geçişlerinin ne de şimşeklerin dağıtamayacağı kadar yoğun bir karanlık.-...denize varmak için bir kanala girmesi gerekiyordu.
Bunca verimli kaynak kimse onu değerlendirmenin bir yolunu bulamadı diye kurumaz!-Diğerlerine inandığın zaman hayat ne kadar da güzeldir.
...Sen bana el ele tutuşalım dediğinde hayat ne güzeldir.-Ruhu paslanmamış bir insan için AŞK her zaman aşktır.
-Gözleri, kocaman gözleri, üzerine çivilenmiş, mıknatıs gibi çekici, üzerinde hiç denize açılmamış ya da çok açılmış denizcilerin gerginliğiyle dolu, ışık saçan, dünyevi, içindeki bir titreştirdiği zaman dünyaya bağlanan bir teli titreten gözler...-...canlılığının içindeki sonsuz ölü, beyazlığının içindeki sonsuz esmer.
Τό ὅτι δέν μπορῦμε νά συνυπάρξουμε εἶναι γιατί ἐσύ καί ἐγώ ἀνήκουμε σέ κόσμους διαφορετικούς: ἐσύ στόν κόσμο τῶν ζωντανῶν νεκρῶν καί ἐγώ στόν κόσμο τῶν νεκροζώντανων...Αν και στις τελευταίες 150 σελίδες μου φάνηκε κάπως βαρετό, δεν το θεώρησα μειονέκτημα γιατί δεν είναι μυθιστόρημα αλλά «μη-μυθιστορηματικό μυθιστόρημα» και οι απολογίες που περιέχει στο τέλος ήταν απαραίτητες.
Μου άρεσε αρκετά γιατί πρώτα απ' όλα έμαθα πολλά για την δολοφονία του Λαμπράκη και γιατί η γραφή του Βασιλικού είναι εξαίρετη, ειδικά στο δεύτερο μέρος του βιβλίου όπου περιγράφεται το ταξίδι της σορού του Λαμπράκη και το παράλληλο ταξίδι της ψυχής του έξω από το τραίνο.
Brilliant novel about the murder of a leftist parliamentary deputy in early 1960s Salonika--- a political killing in a Greece on the edge of the coup that brought the Colonels to power.
Vassilikos' "Z" is also the source for Costa-Gavras' film of the same name--- one of the great political thrillers of the 20th century.
The novel is complex, and told through multiple viewpoints and conflicting voices, with the streets of Salonika and Athens as players as important as army officers, bureaucrats, and hired thugs.
A fine, fine political novel, and one worth reading as Greece seems to be fracturing again.
Very much worth finding and reading.
this was made into an excellent film too, retains its interest even as you know how it ends...
Kind of like the 60s version of Rashomon - it's all the depositions and newspaper accounts of the assassination of a Communist MP in Greece by some thugs paid by right-wing politicians. I've wanted to read this ever since I saw the movie in high school. With the exception of a psychedelic interlude that immediately dates the book to the 60s, Z will likely activate your hippie hell-no-we-won't-go gene, if you have one.
The film took me by surprise in just how gripping it was and the book did the same. It's narrative is interesting as it follows the account of a fictional assassination which fills in for a real one that took place in Greece in the 1960's. Shocking to think that this can take place in the western world so recently.
This book was written during the trials of those accused of the assassination of 'Z' in Greece in the 1960s. Sometimes the floral writing got annoying, but the pseudonyms were rather interesting (depending on the translation from Greek). If you're very interested in getting into the nitty gritty of Greek history, this is a key book to read.
Πώς είναι ο κόσμος που ζούμε; Γιατί μας συναρπάζουν τόσο οι μυθιστορηματικές δυστοπίες όταν τις ζούμε ή τις ζήσαμε; Ποια ιδανικά, ποια στοιχεία κάνουν τον χρόνο και τον τόπο που ζούμε ιδανικό;Στο βιβλίο διαβάζουμε για τη δράση του παρακράτους σε όλο του το μεγαλείο.
Νομίζω ότι η ιστορία (δεν εννοώ του βιβλίου, αλλά του τόπου) μιλάει από μόνη της.
Κι αυτό γιατί με τον ίδιο "ερωτικό" τρόπο που εκφράστηκε η σύζυγος του Λαμπράκη για το πρόσωπό του, εκφράστηκαν και ο βουλευτής που ξυλοκοπήθηκε το ίδιο βράδυ της δολοφονίας, ο δημοσιογράφος που κάλυπτε τα γεγονότα από την αρχή, ο άνθρωπος που ενεπλάκη με τους δράστες πάνω στο τρίκυκλο...
داستان کاملا تم سیاسی دارد. چقدر جوامع به هم شبیهند. ما در جامعه خودمان وانگو و یانگو و کمیسر و... نداریم؟طیف وسیع بازیگران بسیار جالب و ارتباط و دنبال کردن آنها بسیار جذاب است.
I'm surprised that this book doesn't have more reviews. I love the narration; it's emotional and exhilarating. I'm a beginner in political novels, but I love this book for its narration anyway. The only thing is that there were so many characters I sometimes lost track. But it's not that big a deal, and I'm really, really glad I actually bought this book.
Ένα βιβλίο που δεν μπορει κανεις να αφήσει από τα χέρια του.
When a true story, that has shaken Greek Political system and society, comes to a well-written book, it is our obligation to read it!
one of those books that sticks in your mind for years and years or in my case 40 years.
Z l'orgia del potere racconta la vicenda, realmente accaduta, dell'uccisione del deputato di sinistra Grigoris Lambrakis (che nel libro viene chiamato Z - "è vivo" in greco).
L'omicidio, architettato dalla polizia in collaborazione con un'organizzazione di estrema destra, grazie a vari tentativi di insabbiamento e depistaggio all'inizio viene archiviato come un tragico incidente.
Ma, dopo l'arresto di due dei responsabili, un giudice decide di vederci chiaro e aiutato da un testimone volontario e un giornalista, riesce ad accertare la verità e fa incriminare per omicidio premeditato i due arrestati, il capo della polizia e alcuni alti ufficiali dell'esercito.
دونکته در طول خواندن این کتاب برایم جالب بود اول اینکه کتاب طیف وسیعی از حوادث و شخصیت ها را به شیوه ای بسیار زیبا به تصویر می کشد ولی آنچه بیشتر نظر من را جلب کرد پرداختن به قربانیان اصلی این دسیسه بود.
البته در ابتدا با این قطعات به نوعی شاعرانه در میان جو تلخ کتاب کنار نمی آمدم اما کم کم این قطعات جای خود را در ذهن من پیدا کرد و به عنصری اصلی در شکل دادن به ماهیت داستان بدل شد.در پایان زد مرده است و روح قاتل او در ما جاری است.
Πάρα πολύ καλό βιβλίο, με όλο το συναισθηματικό περιεχόμενο, ο συγγραφέας αποδεικνύει την καλή του συγγραφική ικανότητα, και με αυτό το βιβλίο στα δικά μου μάτια καταξιώνεται.Θετικά σίγουρα είναι η περιγραφική ζωγραφική των καταστάσεων, και η δημιουργία έντονων συναισθημάτων από την πλοκή και τον εσωτερικό αναβρασμό των ηρώων.Δεν είναι τυχαία και η επιλογή του για ταινία 'Ζ' από το Κ. Γαβρά (1969).
An incredible affirmation of lifeAnd an extraordinarily exploration of grief in all the unchartered waters.My late parents sourced an early English translation of this amazing book for my 21st birthdayMy extraordinary edition was published in 1969 by Macdonald & Co (Publishers) Ltd.This a book which will stay beside me for the remainder of my days.It is heartbreaking.
Wow this is a great book full of political intrigue. Set during the military junta in Greece in the 1970s and based on a real murder, the action is fast-paced and full of shadowy characters. Great read.
A book that needed to be written. The story of truly heroic figures who fought, sometimes successfully and other times not, against what can only be called the forces of darkness.
The letter Z was banned by the Greek government for two years. This excellent book tells the story of the political assassination and attempted coverup that led to that ban.
Costa-Gavras’ film adaptation of Z is one of my favorite films, and probably the most gut-punching and relevant political films I’ve watched.
Structurally it is lean and efficient, exact in its anger and in peeling back the overlapping layers of criminality, complicity and conspiracy behind a political assassination.Reading the first chapter of Vassilis Vassilikos’ source novel, I was immediately struck by the how closely Costa-Gavras had adapted the material.
Whereas the film remains angry and tightly focused on politics, the novel contains a parallel narrative of lyricism delving into seas of loss, mourning and memory.
Z is based on actual events of the murder of a political figure in Greece and the speculation of who was involved and why that followed. Told from multiple perspectives- those involved, those who loved Z, his widow, and bystanders- the sense of what it was to experience this in one's own country is palpable. Food: gorgonzola and almonds. At times sharp and pungent, other times sweet and mild.
Maybe it's because I lack the context for the political events and the times when this novel was first published, but I found this book to be an insipid, over-the-top political tome that was virtually unreadable. I knew nothing about the story in advance, but the title caught my eye when looking at the online library and I thought that a 50th anniversary edition must mean that the story had some enduring virtues. I was wrong.
Ένα βιβλίο που αντικατοπτρίζει με απόλυτα θαυμαστό τρόπο την Ελλάδα του σήμερα , γραμμένο στην Ελλάδα του χθες.Σε κάποια σημεία ίσως υπάρχει μια καμπή ,όμως υπερκαλύπτεται από το βαθύτερο νόημα του Φανταστικού ντοκιμαντέρ ενός εγκλήματος.Θεωρώ πως πρέπει όλοι να το διαβάσουν με καθαρό νου , δίχως παρωπίδες και φανατισμούς.Καλή ανάγνωση !
Vassilis Vassilikos (Greek: Βασίλης Βασιλικός) is a prolific Greek writer and diplomat. A native of the northern Greek island of Thassos, Vassilikos grew up in Salonika, graduating from law school there before moving to Athens to work as a journalist. Due to his political activities, he was forced into exile following the 1967 military coup, where he spent the next seven years.
Very good book and excellent read. The excruciating twists and turns of the perpetrators and their machinations to evade responsibility, resonate with current issues and governmental deceits throughout the world. Worth reading to remind us not to trust entirely politicians or government.
