https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17136.The_Time_Machine_The_Invisible_Man
Tras esta lectura se entiende a la perfección el título de padre del género que se ha otorgado a Wells de manera casi unánime.Un visionario que en su época se atreve a estirar los límites del tiempo, cuenta la crónica de sus aventuras en un futuro remoto a un grupo de invitados escépticos.
El autor escoge, a pesar de su estilo narrativo vívido y tridimensional, hacernos llegar los hechos como una historia dentro de la historia.
Esta aparente distancia nos coloca en una postura particular: somos uno más de entre los asistentes a la reunión y tenemos ante nosotros la tarea de posicionarnos.Reseña completa y mi versión es la portada en https://sidumbledorefueralibrero.com/...
While the beginning of "The Time Machine" was a bit slow, I found the Darwinism (and the barely-hidden class commentary) of the future fascinating.
However, I must say that I enjoyed "The Invisible Man" more than the time machine.
After all, how do you protect yourself from something you can't see?Considering how tepid most science fiction has become in the age where Twilight and Harry Potter are considered the pinnacles of modern literature, looking back to the roots gives a reader something a bit more satisfying to read (and, of course, the lack of obvious self-insertion is much enjoyed).
It's always hard to write two books at once. The Time Machine though the concept was very interesting was a rather boring read. Perhaps it is the century in which it was written? I found it a little hard to get into. The Invisible Man was better but also a little difficult to get into due to language and grammar. Both very fascinating reads. I can see why HG Wells is one of the fathers of modern science fiction.
This review covers only The Invisible Man by H.G. Wells.
While I enjoyed both stories, I preferred The Invisible Man. It was definitely a more exciting story and moved along at almost a breakneck pace.It follows a stranger who shows up at the small English town of Iping.
He is masked with bandages, wears heavy clothing to cover his body and when he arrives at a local inn, demands and receives quarters and the private use of a lounge.
Money is stolen and back at the inn, there are further strange happenings.As things begin to escalate, the invisible man is 'revealed', so to speak and the town and people are upturned.
ভাল লেগেছে। অনেকদিন পর আবার পড়লাম ।
However as this book points out , and as Wells' himself admitted' these are not science-fiction stories.
Rather they are fantasies and horrors, more in the vein of Mary Shelly's Frankenstein than Jules Verne's 20,000 Leagues Under the Sea. These stories are about people and society, how we act and react to the world around us as it changes.
The characters and their settings still apply, and the actions of people found throughout would still be of a similar character as it was when Wells first wrote them.
These stories should be read as an example of actions and results, choices and consequences.
Blessed and privileged though the Eloi seem, the ease of their lifestyle leaves them ultimately as something of mental and physical 'vegetables' while, ironically, the underprivileged and underground Morlocks adapted so well to living in the dark that they could no longer live in the sunshine but could only make forays above ground to obtain by cannibalism the meat they needed.
Rather, we might survive the better and happier without the artificial niceties of privilege but instead by leading a simpler existence closer to nature.This is only one interpretation but the beauty of Wells' idea for The Time Machine is that, like a diamond, it reflects light from so many fresh angles and provokes a theatre of debate.

My biggest problem with these novels was that I wasn't able to get into the story for very long, and forget that I was reading.
Both The Time Machine and The Invisible Man are very short novels.
Personally, I enjoyed the Invisible Man a lot more, because I felt the characters had more substance and the story was more suspenseful.
However, do not expect to "fall in love" with the characters from The Time Machine.
Although I had more fun reading The Invisible Man, I rated that also a 3 because I am very familiar with the "mad with power" theme.
Really enjoyed The Time Machine.
I felt a lot of sympathy for the Time Traveler and his plight and liked how the story came full circle.
If it was just this story, I would have given it four stars.I did not enjoy the Invisible Man nearly as much.
I ended up skimming a lot of it later on.
The beginning was better than the ending, especially when the Invisible Man went on for pages about his experiments and such.
This would be a two star story for me.
I gave this book 3 stars because it was hard to get into.
It did not immediately grasp my attention as did some of the other books I read such as "Stolen." The way it was written reminded somewhat of Shakespeare.
The premise of the book was interesting though it was about a man trying to convince his friends about this time machine he had invented.
He was interested in how the future man would be.
It was not a bad story, however, it was not my favorite.This was my choice for a classic book.
I read Dickens a few days before this. I had my pre-reading perspective on both authors wrong. I was thinking Dickens would be the boring one. I was way off. This book was a major disappointment. Maybe Warehouse 13 gave me the wrong impression. H.G. Wells just comes off Average. Its a sad disappointment.
I liked the Time Machine well enough, but had a really hard time with The Invisible Man. It was such an unsettling feeling. I'll probably end up liking it more later on, but right now the average of the two is 2 stars.
In the whole period (not much above a week, but still...) he's in this future time, he doesn't get more than about a day's pedestrian travel away from his landing point (if he'd thought the matter through more thoroughly, he might've put a bike rack on the thing.
What's happened to Icelandic glaciers if average temperatures in Britain have heated enough to make outdoor life comfortable year 'round?Then there's the question of exactly what the Morlocks do to supply the Elois' 'wants'.
Granting that, with time, the Earth would likely become tide-locked to the sun (really, it would probably happen with the Moon, first.
Rather than attempt to describe how the world would be in 200 years (what would be considered modern-day for a reader like me), Wells created a completely possible world eight hundred thousand years in the future.One of my favorite quotes from The Time Machine:  Our agriculture and horticulture destroy a weed just here and there and cultivate perhaps a score or so of wholesome plants, leaving the greater number to fight out a balance as they can.
Quick summary (spoilers): a weird looking dude shows up in a town outside London, tries to do science in a private room but the townspeople get suspicious of him, and eventually realize he’s invisible.
The Time Machine “Ages ago . . . [m]an had thrust his brother man out of the ease and the sunshine. And now that brother was coming back—changed!” (60).H.G. Wells’ science fiction novella, The Time Machine, is a tour de force that is both awe-inspiring (“great and splendid architecture . . . more massive than any buildings of our own time . . . built of glimmer and mist" (21)), and, perhaps even more importantly, morally provocative (“[t]he rich had been assured of his wealth and comfort, the t
In the novel, an unnamed scientist invents a time machine and travels 802,701 years into the future to find that the human species has divergently evolved into two different species: the terricolous, diurnal, “feebl[y] prett[y]” Eloi and the subterranean, nocturnal, “mere[ly] mechanical[-minded]” Morlocks, both of whom lack intelligence—because “there is no change and no need of change” (81) in their society—and strength—because “[u]nder the new conditions of perfect comfort and security, that restless energy, that with [modern humans] is strength, would become weakness” (34).
After Marvel escapes from his captivity in a riveting bar fight, The Invisible Man goes to Burdock and finds Kemp, a college friend.
In this review i will talk a little about these two stories :The time machine this story takes place in man who his name remain unknown but they keep calling him the time traveler, he built a time machine that made him travels through time and sees the world after and before thousands years, but when he was in the future, something blocked him to make his own way back to his time and he stacks in the far future .Wells shows us how he imagines the world after thousands years, how the life, languages even animals and fruits are different from now days but the strange thing is that the world turns into a Dystopia , but even in a places like this ...
Wells described the invisible man's thinking and how it's changed and became more Dangerous after living out of people’s sightsboth stories are great and worth to read my rate 3.8
These questions come to mind while either A) reading The Time Machine by H.G. Wells or B) having a deep, frustrating moment, pondering things beyond my own understanding.
His story may come to an end, and his guests may go home, but is his adventure really over?The author, H.G. Wells, has a distinct writing style to me; I haven't seen many books like it, but that's because The Time Machine was first published in 1895.
This book is for the scientific thinker or the adventurer; I don't recommend its reading if you don't want to think, ponder, or become curious, just like the time traveler.
It's easy to see why The Time Traveller became a classic, paving the way for future generations of sci-fi story tellers.The Invisible Man is an intense and suspenseful tale, about a mad scientist whose morals and motives are both ambiguous and yet forthright, which makes it all the more chilling and uneasy.
This novel is another sci-fi classic that keeps you at the edge of your seat, wanting to know more about the mysterious Invisible Man, and yet despising his antagonistic ways.
The Invisible Man was, ultimately, the more exciting read, as the Time Machine suffers from having the character who's supposed to be in danger telling the entire story after the fact.
The ending is satisfying, but The Invisible Man is more intriguing from start to finish.All of that said, this edition of the book has an issue.
It has both footnotes and end notes.
The end notes are helpful for putting everything in the social and political contexts of Wells's time.
My only quibble with it is that I get really tired of the conceit in so many novels of this time that the author of the book is listening to someone tell a story.The Invisible Man reminded me of Frankenstein in the idea of a young ambitious scientist with a tragic flaw.
Ironically if he had been polite to the people in the inn, and pretended to be a sympathetic disfigured man, he would possibly have gotten the space he needed to accomplish his work.
I wish the introduction had recommended more books of Wells to read instead of just complaining that people only know him for sci fi.
Once one has read these books, it's easy to understand why they are timeless classics.
I had read the Time Machine a long time ago and forgotten how brilliant it was, especially considering the era in which it was written.
All things considered though, I found The Invisible Man more gripping with a much more entertaining plot.
I have to add that this is perhaps due to the multiple movie versions of the time machine whereas there have been less versions of the Invisible Man, at least to my knowledge.
All in all, very interesting reads that take us back to the true birth of science-fiction.
I watched the movie and it brought my interest to read the book, it was not disappointing as the movie is based on the book the movie took some elements but not entirely, and made me continue to read the book and I was surprised to find out that WELLS describes so well the locations that I actually enjoy and also because I found many different elements than the movie, I do not certainly read a lot but I enjoyed this book
I've just finished the first story of this two part book, The Time Machine. I haven't read any H.G Wells books aside from his most famous 1984. I was very impressed by the mastery of his writing. The future world he creates is original, the story is gripping and the sociopolitical and philosophical insights that can be drawn from Well's invention epitomize the style of this masterful writer. Will update again when I've finished The Invisible Man.
The Time Machine: 4 starsThe father of sci-fi brings us the story of the Time Traveller. It's sensational, groundbreaking for its time, and strangely enough, has a humorous flare.The Invisible Man: 5 starsThe Invisible Man reads like a horror novel. Thrilling, creepy, and compelling. Brings to mind Lovecraft's Re-Animator.
Maybe I just didn't pick the right stories to start with as far as H.G. Wells' material, but I'm just not of a fan of his writing style. This experience with these two stories may influence me not to pick up any more of his work in the future which really disappoints me because I really enjoy science fiction maybe just not his.
While I enjoyed both stories, I much preferred The Time Machine. H. G. Wells practically invented science fiction, and among all the stories with a basis in science that have been published since then, The Time Machine still stands out as one of the greatest there are. Who wouldn't be intrigued by the idea of traveling 800,000 years into the future and discovering two distinct humanoid species?
Both stories start out very slow but finish with great endings. You really have to stick with them. I enjoyed how Wells actually got somewhat into the science of both time travel and indexes of refraction. Good book overall. I would say that The Invisible Man is a more interesting read, but The Time Machine had a perfect ending.
A surprisingly gripping read. Wells' writing can be challenging (I had to look up an above-average number of words) but it's definitely worth the slog. An insightful introduction and postface in my edition was welcome.
A well written book. Enjoyed reading it.
