https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/313605.Getting_to_Yes
The books okay I guess but a lot of the strategies are so intuitive and the writing wasn't the greatest. Again it's the same thing with all these business books where if you've read one the rest usually don't add anything new but if you haven't read any it could be insightful. These books are usually just useful for helping organize ones thoughts and realize things they couldn't other wise but you can achieve that with some quite thinking time also.
“Getting to Yes” is the benchmark by which all other books on negotiating should be judged.
Authors Fisher, Patton and Ury have penned a book that has become a classic in its class as their negotiating principles have been used and quoted again and again the world over.
“Getting to Yes” is quite deceptive at first – it seems a little light weight as it is so easy to read.
This book should be essential reading for everyone who has to negotiate with someone else over reaching a decision – and isn’t that all of us?
In contemplating a negotiation, the common question in people's minds was 'Who is going to win and who is going to lose?' To reach an agreement someone had to 'give in.' It was not a pleasant prospect.
Now it is increasingly recognized that there are cooperative ways of negotiating over differences and that even if a 'win-win' solution cannot be found, a wise agreement can still often be reached that is better for both sides than the alternative." (p.
Similar to playing frisbee and the relationship of marriage, there are scenarios that have no place for win/lose negotiations because ultimately they will all end with lose/lose results.
Individuals should focus, "To be better, the process must, of course, produce good substantive results; winning on the merits may not be the only goal, but certainly losing is not the answer." Therefore, it is better to understand the interests of what underly negotiation requests.
It's not enough to know the facts of what's being negotiated, because alternatives can not be generated.
Asking questions to find out more about an individual(s) position/interest, is more productive to come to alternative results that leads to win/win results.
This book is a very useful and detailed guide to negotiating for mutual gain.
Invent Options for Mutual Gain • Shrink the scope of a proposal to reduce perceived risk; offer a trial phase.
Ask “What’s your theory?” or “how did you arrive at that proposal?” • Agree on standards before negotiating.
Negotiation Ninjitsu • Invite criticism about your proposal; ask what they’d do in your situation.
• Give a credible reason for taking a break from negotiating, such as talking it over with another.
Ten Questions People Ask • Negotiating doesn’t require compromising your principles.
Anecdotes from everything between lease negotiations and the preparatory talks for the Law of the Sea Convention.
(This international law graduate particularly enjoyed those bits.) It was well laid out, and well written - clearly by someone who can think of nothing more fun than three consecutive days sat round a table brainstorming ideas.
It didn't try to make common sense sound like pseudoscience (looking at you, Seven Successful Habits).It's really nice to come across a book about negotiation that values collaboration, cares about people's individual interests and feelings, doesn't want anyone to get shafted.
No. There was a solid trend there for about 15 years.There's plenty of applicable knowledge in Getting to Yes, but the authors even admit at the end of the book that you probably already knew it all: This is intended to be a framework to help you define and practice what you know.It was useful to see different negotiating techniques outlined (hard, soft, and principled), as well as when to use them.
I probably would have rated this higher if I'd read it in high school...and I wish I had done so back then for a lot of reasons.
This book was recommended to me by about a dozen friends, colleagues, and professors before I finally decided to read it.
Here are some of my favorite quotes from the book:- Be soft on the people but hard on the issue at hand- How you see the world depends on where you sit- Understanding someone's point of view is not the same as agreeing with it- An open mind is not the same thing as an empty one- Silence is one of your best weapons...
That is, try to keep the discussion on why something is fair or what other people have done which can be used as a standard for negotiations.Now, I found this book hard going this time.
At one of the last negotiations I was involved in the 'gold standard' that was offered was economists perception of the likely rate of inflation in 12 months to two years from the time of the negotiation.
Finding 'gold standards' with this stuff sometimes can be a real challenge.But, that said, you probably aren’t going to really be doing industrial negotiations, you are much more likely to be doing negotiations involving spouses or kids or your local mechanic.
Метод принципиальных переговоров, разработанный в рамках Гарвардского проекта по переговорам, состоит в том, чтобы решать проблемы на основе их качественных свойств, т.
е. исходя из сути дела, а не торговаться по поводу того, на что может пойти или нет каждая из сторон.
Этот метод предполагает, что вы стремитесь найти взаимную выгоду там, где только возможно, а там, где ваши интересы не совпадают, следует настаивать на таком результате, который был бы обоснован какими-то справедливыми нормами независимо от воли каждой из сторон.
Принципиальные переговоры показывают, как достичь того, что вам полагается по праву, и остаться при этом в рамках приличий.
Eye-opening.
Favorite TipsSeparate the people from the problem.
Where perceptions are inaccurate, you can look for ways to educate.
If emotions run high, you can find ways for each person involved to let off steam.
Look for opportunities to act inconsistently with their perceptions.
Make emotions explicit and acknowledge them as legitimate.
Allow the other side to let off steam.
Concrete details not only make your description [of the problem] credible, they add impact.[At this point, I got lazy and stopped reading.
But I really should come back to finish at some point.]
(which was not difficult considering it's one of the most interesting books I have read this year) It's a must-read, and I mean MUST-READ book for any person who is dealing with any kind of negotiation-- which means- a must read for EVERYONE because as a human we negotiate everyday.
There is no point in being an ostrich and say, "In my work, I don't have to deal with negotiation, why should I read this book." Because, let me break the news-- YOU DO NEGOTIATE-- so might as well do it better.
Must.Read.Book.
Maybe appropriate help for the person who has never really stopped to reflect on the efficacy of their current thinking or behavior when involved in conflict or negotiation. For readers who aren't starting from scratch when it comes to learning about mediation and negotiation, there are probably more nuanced and detailed instruction manuals out there.
Great book about basics of negotiations. It's full of case studies and presents a basic framework for getting things done by focusing negotiators on the problem instead of one another. Highly recommended.
Бидний ерөнхийдөө мэддэг хэрэгжүүлдэг, хэрэгжүүлдэггүй зүйлүүдийг тойруулж бичжээ. Жишээлбэл - Асуудал хувь хүн хоёрыг хооронд нь хольж хутгахгүй байх. Separate people from the problem- Байр суурь бус ашиг сонирхлыг чухалчлах. Focus on interests, not positions- Харилцан ашигтай байх боломжуудыг эрж хайх. Invent options for mutual gain- Асуудлыг обьектив талаас нь харах чадвартай байх. Use objective criteriaНээрээ Best Alternative to a Negotiated Agreement-н талаар хэд хэдэн дажгүй санаанууд бас байсан. Би гэхдээ ном уншчихаад бараг шууд шахуу мартаад байх юм. Ямар сайндаа ингэж товчилж тэмдэглэж суухав кк.image:
In a better world, _Getting To Yes_ would be required reading in secondary school.
Every page is full of wisdom and suggestions for handling interpersonal interactions — or negotiations, since most bidirectional communication is in some sense a negotiation.
As someone who negotiates professionally, I’ve found the philosophy of _Getting To Yes_ to be exactly in sync with my own style.
I’ve given copies of the book to people whom I mentor and even to those with whom I negotiate.
The audio version I listened to this time is an updated edition with some fresher examples and updated numbers.
As the author wrote towards the ending, "This book is about how to "win" that important game — how to achieve a better process for dealing with your differences.". Not about how to win an argument or any such thing. It makes no claim at introducing brand new ideas, but aims simply at organizing a lot of what you may already know are good or bad practices in negotiation, and structuring the reasons why they work - or don't. I walked out with 6 pages of notes, so for me it was worth it.
I read this book with one course which i am doing on Coursera on negotiation and found it very useful. It gives you insight that how wrong i was in various negotiation. Obviously i need to practise these learnings in my daily life so i can be better negotiator.
A excellent book about negotiation. There were 4 key rules of negotiaton that I remembered from this:1. Separating People and Issues - Fisher and Ury's first principle is to separate the people from the issues. People tend to become personally involved with the issues and with their side's positions. And so they will tend to take responses to those issues and positions as personal attacks. Separating the people from the issues allows the parties to address the issues without damaging their relat
As Fisher and Ury explain, "Your position is something you have decided upon.
42] Defining a problem in terms of positions means that at least one party will "lose" the dispute.
When a problem is defined in terms of the parties' underlying interests it is often possible to find a solution which satisfies both parties' interests.
The parties may define the problem in win-lose terms, assuming that the only options are for one side to win and the other to lose.
Or a party may decide that it is up to the other side to come up with a solution to the problem.4.
Then again, I had a negotiation course and, as it turns out, I really suck at negotiating, so I've decided to read this book before writing my final paper for the course.
I feel a bit more comfortable with understanding the ideas of what's best to be done, but at the same time I'm extremely emotional and, despite the fact that the book does try to explain that one *shouldn't* be emotional in a negotiation, it doesn't really help you at all with figuring out how to do that.
Excellent Framework--The framework of what the authors call "principled negotiation" is pretty much the same as the framework of "crucial conversations." It also meshes well with Dale Carnegie's framework of winning friends and influencing people and to some extent, Manuel J.
And to do this, you need to separate the people from the problem, identify interests behind positions, and work together to invent creative solutions.I found the framework to be both practical and effective, especially where working together with those who you're negotiating with and coming up with creative solutions.
This is an acknowledged classic in the literature of negotiation, though I am grateful that I read it on a Kindle, as being forced to see the title every time I picked it up to read it would, frankly, have been unbearable.
It draws on a range of situations, backgrounds, and environments for its examples, meaning that it is more useful than its "Do YOU want to be a business executive?"-style title would suggest.
This is a book about negotiations. We negotiate almost every day, whether its about the idea you came up with at work, which movie to see in the cinema or convincing somebody to do something. For those who want deeper insights into the art of principal based negotiations, this is a gem. I have used the knowledge I gained consciously so many times. I often in the middle of negotiations find myself thinking of the principals I learned, and have used them very successfully. There is no need to waste time on positional bargaining, there is a better way.
In contemplating a negotiation, the common question in people's minds was, 'Who is going to win and who is going to lose?'" Fisher and Ury suggest there is a better way in 'Getting to Yes' and then show you how to get there.As a pastor, you might think that negotiation isn't a skill I have to use very often, but Fisher and Ury's book was not only helpful to me in my personal life (I'm currently negotiating a contract with a solar company and have over the past two years negotiated a home sale, a car purchase, a job contract, to name just a few).
I was shocked to see that this was first written in 1991. Not only is it relevant today, it is a far more balanced and fair approach to negotiating. No sensationalism. Simply good advice about how to think and talk to others when trying to compromise.
Very good advices to any type of negotiations, including outside business environment.
Everything in life, can be a negotiation. This book gives a powerful lesson on staying focused on the issues rather than the positions. Recommended for everyone. Easy to read.
I read this book for negotiations class in college. It completely changed my mind about what negotiations are. Instead of being an extreme negotiator (sticking stubbornly to your positions without swaying) or being a soft negotiator (reaching resolution as soon as possible without creating conflict), principled negotiation is presented as a viable solution by this book. Principled negotiation is all about focusing on interests rather than positions, brainstorming options, and presenting a solution that grows the collective "pie".
This is a guide book, an instruction. Very well structured, stingy for providing examples, but the book you'll leave on your desk for reference. I made lots of notes and refer back to it before every more or less significant occasion to negotiate anything - weekend plans with my wife or to do list with my team at work.
Good, but extraordinary.I listened to it as an audio book.The book present numerous examples of when and how how to behave in certain ways.Close to end, the book even states that what it's teaching may seem obvious and groundbreaking. I do agree, but I still learned a lot from it.
