https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/815158.Rapunzel
True, most modern retellings of the Rapunzel theme are primarily and heavily based on the Brothers Grimm, but Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm's own version is actually gleaned from a loose German translation of an older French offering, which in turn, is heavily influenced by Gianbattista Basile's Petrosinella (a Neapolitan Baroque fairy tale of the 17th century, where the expectant mother craves her sorceress neighbour's parsley, instead of Rapunzel, or rampion, as the herb is called in English).
I really appreciated everything about Zelinsky's "Rapunzel" from his detailed author's note to his thoughtful adaptation to the faithful representation of Renaissance art.
(Alas, the Renaissance style has never been one of my favorites so I didn't personally love the illustrations, though I find a great deal of merit in them.
His work really makes an impression, I feel.
(I couldn't help but think of Rapunzel's own mother and father when the "happy ending" came about.
I feel that the "wicked" witch could be so much more richly developed.
This book illustrated by Paul O. Zelinksy is unlike any children's fairy tale illustrated book I've seen, it is truly a work of art. I am a fan of fairy tale illustrated books and I am extremely picky and choosy but I simply had to have this for my library. I only keep classics and fairy tale books in my collection and this book is a definite must have for any fairy tale collection.
I do very much like this version. I like that the 'witch' is here known as a 'sorceress.' I like that here the girl is hidden, but not locked up in the tower, until she is twelve. I have always preferred the versions that included the twin babies. I mean, it's only natural that the sorceress needs to learn the lesson of the folly of over-protection. Lots of parents need to learn that lesson!Author's note explains origins of tale, and choice of setting for the art.
Zelinsky is a better artist than a writer, in my opinion, so this wasn't as impressive as his other work I've read. But it's still a very good version of "Rapunzel" that's going to be a keeper for me.
Maybe because my teacher said something in class, but I was expecting something different from this book. I thought maybe it would be 'de-constructing' the fairy tale in someway, but instead it was just sort of putting it together in a mismash of various versions, some Grimm, some earlier traditions. The illustrations were interesting, and the abundance of cats in the pictures were nice.
To get inside, the sorceress calls out "Rapunzel Rapunzel, let down your hair", and she climbs it.One day a prince discovers the tower and is curious; he has heard rumours of a fabled beauty trapped inside.
As an adult with a young child of my own, I suddenly became interested in collecting really good editions of fairy tales and other classic stories - hence my lovely Robert Ingpen-illustrated editions of 
So I took a gamble on Paul O Zelinsky's beautifully illustrated retelling, buying it without being able to check it out first.And it is a beautiful rendering of the story of Rapunzel.
This is a hard book for me to rate. On one hand, it had intricate illustrations that many will love, and the story was certainly exciting. However, as a mom, this book just felt very uncomfortable to me. I felt like the pregnancies and babies in the story were ...well...awkward.
This Caldecott winner is the familiar story of Rapunzel but the watercolor paintings that accompany it are absolutely beautiful. The story itself is a simple retelling of the fairy tale but it is made all the richer with Zelinsky's incredible paintings. Recommended for middle elementary students.
1. Picture Book: Traditional Literature2. This is the retelling of Rapunzel, the story of a young girl who is forced to grow up in isolation and confinement because a sorceress is hiding her from the king, when she meets a prince who is enchanted by her voice and her long, lustrous hair. She then has to learn how to live on her own after many years of confinement, and is reunited with her prince. 3. Critique:a. Zelinsky brings the age-old tale of Rapunzel to life with his beautiful illustrations
This is the retelling of Rapunzel, the story of a young girl who is forced to grow up in isolation and confinement because a sorceress is hiding her from the king, when she meets a prince who is enchanted by her voice and her long, lustrous hair.
Zelinsky uses control of light, landscape, characters, architecture and costumes to paint a beautiful, poignant picture of Rapunzel.c. As opposed to the dark and extremely dim recount by the Grimm Brothers, this version uses illustrations to show that Rapunzel was not living in a dungeon like tower by an evil witch who tortured her, but was kept in solitude because the woman loved her so much, and provided her with luxury.
Zelinsky’s story about a young girl imprisoned in her castle has been a cult classic in the fairy tale industry for many years and the writing is dramatic and romantic at the same time as the audience feels the tension when Rapunzel is taken away from her parents by the sorceress and the romance being blossomed when Rapunzel meets the Prince for the first time.
Zelinsky’s illustrations are extremely beautiful and realistic looking, especially of the image of Rapunzel herself having long, orange hair and maintaining a beautiful face all throughout the story.“Rapunzel” is a brilliant book about the importance of true love and it will easily captivate children who are fans of fantastic fairy tales such as this one.
With sumptuous oil paintings that allow the beauty of the tower and Rapunzel with her amazingly-long tresses to be highlighted, the author/illustrator takes readers to a different place and time than their current surroundings.
Echoing as he does the style of Italian Renaissance painters, his illustrations are luminescent, and he shows so much devotion in the simple gesture of the prince holding Rapunzel's hand in his own once he enters the tower.
Although this is a picture book, it touches upon adult themes.
One aspect of the illustrations that may interest readers is the cat that keeps appearing throughout the pages.
1998 Caldecott Medal - Favorite Illustration: When the prince and Rapunzel are headed back toward his kingdom, each carrying a child.I adore these illustrations!
I thought the text was simply a standard version of the story but you almost don't need any words as the pictures have so much detail you could "read" the story from them alone.
Also, I have always loved the ending of this version, with Rapunzel having twins in the wilderness and her tears healing the prince upon their reunion.
I especially loved the way Disney kept this small detail at the end of Tangled, when Rapunzel's tears heal her love.
If you're a fan of the Italian Renaissance, this is a version that will visually delight.
The story of Rapunzel is re-told with a blending of versions that is interesting and not too scary (thanks for all the nightmares Brothers Grimm!).
The detail is exquisite and each picture begs to be lingered over.
I appreciated the notes at the end about the original story as well.
Overall, the best part?
Finding out the tower is related to Dr. Who's TARDIS apparently.
I would have liked to explore the many rooms in the book, but we never got quite enough page time for that which I found very sad.
Based on the Grimm brothers version of Rapunzel (which was based on several older versions of similar stories). Gorgeous illustrations.Reread January 2016. I really loved this version of Rapunzel. I appreciated Zelinsky's author's note about the origins of the Rapunzel story. I really, really love the illustrations. They are breathtaking. The Caldecott Medal was well deserved.
Beautiful illustrations. Part of the story was a new-to-me retelling. I've never read a version where there was a marriage and children. I would have to consider this a favorite out of all the versions I've read.
This retelling is masterful, mixing its many origins. I also love the artwork, and it %100 earned its Caldecott win. I love this so much.
A very fun story, but it definitely depends on what version you read.
Rapunzel is a childhood story every child should read at some point I believe.
The soft artwork through the whole book is a great visual aid for the reader, especially because if you haven't heard of Repunzel imagining someone climb up someones hair could be difficult.
The paintings of Rapunzel hair hanging down the tower is an important attribute to the story.
The cover page shows Repunzel in her tower, with the title vertical, just like how her hair would be hanging out the town, which w as creative and appropriate.
I would read this aloud and show the pictures to the child/ren on each page.
A new husband and soon to be father tries to satisfy his wife's craving for the rapunzel growing in the sorceress's garden next door.
When the prince first climbs the tower to meet Rapunzel, The detailed embroidery on her generous neckline and hem echos nearly exactly the embroidery on the prince's shoes.
d = I might use this book in class to show characteristics of Italian art.
The placement of figures, light source, perspective and horizon line all have strong roots in renaissance painting.
It would be fun, as a class, to find paintings in this book that demonstrate each one of these concepts.
Please note anyone who sees this review, I'm not reviewing this particular edition but the early version of the story "Persinette" by Charlotte-Rose de Caumont de La Force, that became an influence to the Grimm's Fairy tale.
try reading that for your 5 year old as a bed time story.) Actually it is also the way the fairy finds out about the prince in the first edition of Grimm's Fairy Tales.
"Persinette" by Charlotte–Rose de La Force was published in 1698 at the height of the "adult fairy tale" literary movement in Paris.
Combining various components of the folk tale of Rapunzel, Zelinsky tells of a pregnant wife who craves the herb Rapunzel which is found in the forbidden garden of a wicked sorceress.The husband cuts and brings home the treat for his wife to consume.When the sorceress discovers the deceit, she tells the husband either the wife must die, or she must give the baby to her.The child, a beautiful baby girl, is given to the sorceress who then raises the child and when she becomes a lovely woman, is held hostage in a high tower.When a prince happens to pass the tower and hear lovely singing, he is smitten and enthralled.Watching the sorceress obtain entry by demanding Rapunzel let down her hair, the prince does the same while the sorceress is away.The lovely lady and the handsome prince fall in love.
Zelinsky's book is a fantastic version of the classic Brothers Grimm story with breathtaking illustrations.
A wonderful story to read with older children.
I loved the expanded information at the end of the book that describes the origins of the story.
We've read this book a couple of times and it's one of our favorite fairy tales.
Mar 2012 update: We watched this story on DVD as part of Scholastic's Storybook Treasures, narrated by Maureen Anderman with music by Bruce Zimmerman.
The story is not truly animated, but the illustrations are shown with various zooming techniques throughout as a read-along narrative is depicted.
Rapunzel has always been one of my favorite stories and I really enjoyed Zelinsky's version of it.
He does such a good job of showing so much pain and suffering on the parents, and joy on Rapunzel when she finds her prince, and the anger on the sorceress' face that you could just go through the pictures and not even read the words and you would still be so clear on how the characters are feeling.
I really enjoyed this book and would recommend it to anyone for a read aloud because of the great story and incredible illustrations.
Rapunzel is another book I’ve known and read since I was a little girl and is one of those ‘princess locked away in the tower’ books that most young girls love to read about, considering she gets rescued by the handsome prince.
The illustrations in this book gave great pictures to go along with the reading by showing the characters vividly and the places they went.
The ending was my favorite part because of how the illustrations show the prince stumbling blind through the woods for so long to try and find Rapunzel and then it shows the family together and happy.
My favorite version of Rapunzel to-date.
The expressions on the faces, the folds of fabric, the background details (there's a cat you see growing up alongside Rapunzel and you can also see it following her throughout the story, which is really cute...
I've seen some reviewers on here complaining that this book is inappropriate.
Look, I love Tangled, but it doesn't follow the original plot of the fairytale, THIS ONE DOES!
And yes, Rapunzel DOES have twin babies in the original story.
I don't know why haters of this book seem to think that never happened...
Anyway, beautiful book.
Anyway, beautiful book.
Not only are the oil paintings in this book gorgeous and lush, there are many little interesting details for the one who peruses the pictures: the pangolin, peacock, European bee-eater, and tarsier in the sorceress's garden for instance (she must have been an animal collector as well as a gardener).
This book was well-deserving of its Caldecott award for the illustrations in the style of the artists of the Italian Renaissance.
A lengthy author's note traces the history of this tale from the Grimms' retelling back to a Neapolitan tale.
It is a story that takes a young student into another world and allows them to dive into fantasies.
This is also a story of good conquering evil, which is an important theme to young readers.
A follow up activity could be instruct the students to draw a scene that represents good conquering evil.
I could give them some examples from other stories, like the Wicked Witch of the West melting at the end of the Wizard of Oz. Then they would be able to share their drawing with the class.
I didn't enjoy the tale, it lacked depth and I didn't see the point of the story (insta-love will always win? Having someone climbing your hairs doesn't hurt? When you crave for food, trading your child is the fastest way to have it?). On the art side, the drawings were nice and enjoyed the pictures focused on the characters. Sadly, the tower was very narrow and the sceneries weren't outstanding. Overall, it wasn't as amazing as in Rumpelstiltskin.
It is very interesting reading these fairytales and folktales because their are so many versions from the original. In life everybody could have a different idea of what they are about or what they feel the story tells.
