https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/822113.The_Noise_of_Time
The Noise of Time is a colourful novelette of the poet’s childhood and adolescence, of his awakening consciousness and his coming of age…The bookcase of early childhood is a man’s companion for life.
And as for books which were not included in that first bookcase – they were never to force their way into the universe of world literature.
It is a surrealistic tale of a hollow young daydreamer:He thought of Petersburg as his infantile disease – one had only to regain consciousness, to come to, and the hallucination would vanish: he would recover, become like all other people, even – perhaps – get married… Then no one would dare call him “young man.” And he would be through with kissing ladies’ hands.
Acknowledgments & Note on Second PrintingA Note on the IllustrationsA Note on the TransliterationIntroduction: The Prose of MandelstamIntroduction to the Second Edition & A Note to the 1993 EditionThe Noise of Time--Music in Pavlovsk--Childish Imperialism--Riots and French Governesses--The Bookcase--Finland--The Judaic Chaos--The Concerts of Hofmann and Kubelik--The Tenishev School--Sergey Ivanych--Yuly Matveich--The Erfurt Program--The Sinani Family--Komissarzhevskaya--In a Fur Coat above One's StationTheodosia--The Harbor Master--The Old Woman's Bird--The Royal Mantle of the Law--Mazesa da Vinci--The Egyptian StampA Note on 'Fourth Prose' and 'Journey to Armenia'--Fourth Prose--Journey to ArmeniaNotesSelected BibliographyIndex of Names
Clarence Brown states with humility in his translator's introduction that to read Mandelstam (or any author) in translation is to read him bereft of his style.
I agree, but the necessity of transmission sometimes trumps fastidiousness; and as Brodsky says, civilization is made of translations.
Bereft of Mandelstam this volume may be, it still projects enormous intellectual power.
He's the tough pith of the Russian intelligentsia, the moral core of people the Soviets absolutely had to exile, co-opt or kill if they were to zombify the nation.
"I was stopped in the dense Soviet wood by bandits who called themselves my judges." --Mandelstam, Fourth Prose (1930)
At one point in Clarence Brown’s introduction to The Noise of Time: Selected Writing’s of Osip Mandelstam, Brown quotes from an anonymous 1938 communication reporting upon the extreme condition of the poet, caught within the machinery of the Gulag:Suspecting that his guards had received orders from Moscow to poison him, he refused to eat any meals (they consisted of bread, herring, dehydrated cabbage soup, and sometimes a little millet).
Poet and critic Joseph Brodsky, in his introduction to Osip Mandlestam: 50 Poems, notes that such distillation is prophetic in nature, and he likens Mandelstam to Job and Jeremiah.
This volume collects the most significant examples of that prose, which consist of memoirs, travel pieces, and even a novella, The Egyptian Stamp, which the translator Clarence Brown describes as 'one of the few examples of surrealist fiction to be found in all of Russian literature.' Mandelstam wrote in a densely referential style that to fully appreciate requires a knowledge of Russian culture and history broader than my own.
Brown dissects the novella quite thoroughly in his introduction, providing insight into the meaning of the work and postulating that it is actually closer to autobiography than pure fiction, based on his knowledge of Mandelstam’s life, compatriots, and literary antecedents.One of my favorites in this collection is the final piece in the book, the travel memoir Journey to Armenia.

"He had a kind of feral relationship to literature, as if it were the only source of animal warmth."I will be pulling this one up and over me again.
I would hazard that either Brown had not yet translated that essay (he did, in any case, translate it), or that the publisher wanted an excuse to publish "The Egyptian Stamp" and "The Noise of Time." Both of these exceptional works, one clearly autobiography, the other a kind of librobiography, rest upon the solid foundation of Mandelstam's use of surrealist techniques in realist prose.
Mandelstam took the surrealist freedom to play in the sandbox of association and applied it to things that can, despite their transformation, be clearly and precisely seen by the reader.
If normal essays are flat planes then Mandelstam's are cubes. Not included in this book is the essential "Conversations about Dante," in which he shows how images can act like ventilation shafts/columns/doors - but even without that you can see (in Journey to Armenia, for example) how he uses structures and forms to fuck with our idea of how we should move through a piece of prose. Lungs spread out on a tennis court. I don't know. Forget argument.
I'm going to reread this one very soon.
I enjoyed this collection of prose far more than I've ever enjoyed Mandelstam's verse. Though not uniformly interesting to me, the various pieces show such incredible mastery of thought and imagination, such wit of language, that it's impossible not to call this prose masterful. Elizabeth Bishop is another esteemed poet whose prose seems much better to me than her verse, and it's arguable that Randall Jarrell and WS Merwin fall into the same category.
Al posto di questo, nel caso mio, c’ è un segno di discontinuità, e tra me e la mia epoca si apre un abisso, un baratro riempito dal tempo che rumoreggia, il posto destinato alla famiglia e al suo archivio”Dunque la Russia prima della rivoluzione bolscevica, prima del secolo da Mandel’stam definito il “secolo dei lupi”.Da Pavlovsk alla Pietroburgo anterivoluzionaria, l'autore racconta -in una prosa stupendamente poetica- l'infanzia e l'adolescenza: la vita domestica, i riti quotidiani della vita pubblica, i giochi dei bambini al Giardino d’Estate, le uscite in carrozza della famiglia imperiale.
I first reviewed this book alongside Vasily Grossman's Armenian Sketchbook, and ‘Armenia’, in Imperium, by Ryszard Kapuscinski (pp.
Thirty years later, in late 1960, the Russian journalist and novelist Vasily Grossman (1905-1964) went for two months, to re-work a translation of an Armenian novel.
Grossman did a turn of hard labour, working in a hellish coal mine for some years which he mentions in his Armenian memoir.Mandelstam was a poet and his slim Journey to Armenia, a little over 50 pages, is written with such tapestried description and imaginative metaphors, it’s like reading an impressionistic prose-poem, interlaced with snapshot moments and thoughts on writing.
Deep
"Ricordare è risalire in solitudine l'alveo di un fiume in secca." (p. 74)
A poetic read, with striking language that enlivens the prose of Mandelstam's youthful experiences in Russia. A meditation on memory and the passage of time as much as it is an account of life, Mandelstam infuses his poetic sensibilities into his beautiful prose. "My desire is not to speak about myself but to track down the age, the noise and the germination of time. My memory is inimical to all that is personal. If it depended on me, I should only make a wry face in remembering the past" (109).
Is this in French?
Some surprisingly dada'ist story writing
Mandelstam is not only a good russian poet , he writes very well. At this book I felt as he was mixing poesy within the text all the time: feelings , colours , tastes , all the senses.
Лично для меня - это произведение показалось сложным.Уловил настроение интеллигенции (народа в целом) конца 19-го начала 20-го веков.
