https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3131143-death-at-the-excelsior-and-other-stories-by-p-g-wodehouse-fiction-sh
Two stories with Jeeves, brilliant stories, and then Wodehouse introduces a character I've never read named Reggie Pepper, who's as bone-headed and hilarious as any Wodehouse created.
I read this as part of a brilliant Goodreads group called "Reading Wodehouse" for the January 2015 read.
I was drawn to the collection because of the title story, which was one of Wodehouse's only murder mystery stories.
It was good; it didn't have the characteristic antics and quips, but it featured a great character named Ms. Snyder who reminded me of Jeeves.The story "Jeeves in the Springtime" made me snort.
Comedy is hard, but Wodehouse makes it look effortless. I can't help thinking if only he had been a faster typist, what his total output might have been. Happily I continue to dole them out, one at a time, savoring.Personal copy
Project Gutenberg curated this solid collection of early Wodehouse stories. I'd read the two Jeeves and Wooster stories before, but the others were new to me, and I found them consistently bright and enjoyable, if not very meaty. But who reads Wodehouse for something to chew on? And I think I've gained an appreciation for Reggie Pepper now instead of spending the length of his stories wishing he were Bertie instead.
So this is where all the stories for the later seasons of Jeeves and Wooster came from (the New York season). Also a number of other (quite funny, of course) short stories -- but it's absolutely mind-boggling to read the Wooster stories and realize how absolutely true Hugh Laurie and Stephen Fry were to the characters.
Two Jeeves short stories, a detective story, a crime story, a love story, and two with a new (to me) character, Reggie Pepper. Reggie seems to be somewhat like Bertie, except he has no Jeeves to help with his schemes, so he has to pull them off by himself. This, as you might imagine, can be disastrous. I like the stand-alone stories, but I really prefer the recurring characters.I need to start looking for these in the form of real books; I'd love to have them on my shelves instead of just in my Kindle.
I listened to Death at the Excelsior via Librivox audiobooks, in a volume of short stories that did not include Wodehouse's other stories. I've never been a fan of Wodehouse, and I can't say I particularly liked this story, although the writing was good enough. It was a simple enough story, a dead body, a locked room, and of course an apparently unsolvable mystery. But the characters were hard to like and the mystery was not actually very mysterious. Overall it just felt flat.
Since I love P.G. Wodehouse and I love the short story genre, this book was a natural. In this collection of short stories there are two Reggie Pepper stories--and I have to admit that I have never read a Reggie Pepper story before and I quite enjoyed him, and two Bertie Wooster and Jeeves stories. I admit that I love Wooster and Jeeves, primarily, no doubt, because I desperately need a Jeeves in my life. The other stories were also enjoyed with that P.G. Wodehouse flair for language and for humor. Highly recommended.
This collection is a real oddity in the Wodehousean universe. It's a collection of dark tales -- actual murder and mayhem -- from the pen of Our Comic Genius. It's the same expert writing, but curiously gentle: the form of the macabre without really getting nasty. Evil lite, but interesting because it is the work of a comic genius.
More PJ. Python fans will find their roots in Wodehouse, no question about it. This is a small collection of short stories. I brazenly give five stars to pretty much anything I have read by Wodehouse -- except for his cricket stories. I will never quite understand them, because the game is utterly lost on me.
Wodehouse always nice, even in minor stories.
Death At The Excelsior is another brief read put together by Gutenberg.
The lead story is a passable mystery that shows youngish PG was still experimenting with genres.
The stars are the two Bertie stories, but since they will be repeated when reading the three short story collections of B & J, this is slender praise.
The Reggie stories are interesting predecessors to the Jeeves Chronicles as they are somewhat Bertie alone.
They are slightly different in vocabulary and rhythm, but if you changed the name of the lead character you might well feel they are stories of Bertie before Jeeves entered into his life.
This short story collection is enjoyable, but not Wodehouse's best. With "Death at the Excelsior" he ventures into a sort of ironically wry detective story, just not his best genre. It wasn't funny. With the other stories in this collection he's back on home ground, including some of the famous Jeeves stories and other stories featuring slapstick reminiscences of that between-war younger generation of the British upper-class. In his own genre, no one can beat Wodehouse for laugh-out-loud humor.
Non-Jeeves stories are skippable. Though early, the Jeeves ones are as good as always:  "How's the weather, Jeeves?" "Exceptionally clement, sir." "Anything in the papers?" "Some slight friction threatening in the Balkans, sir. Otherwise, nothing."
A quirky collection of short stories by P.G. Wodehouse, many featuring the butler Jeeves.
The two Jeeves & Wooster stories are wonderful and the Reggie Pepper pair very good. The other stories aren't of the same quality but still enjoyable.
Pleasant grab bag of B-list Wodehouse.
Read a few of these short stories on my phone when I found myself without a library book. I am a Wodehouse fan, and these just don't cut it; the cleverness is not there. Not recommended.
Wodehouse is a master of hyperbole and sarcastic stories about the idle rich.
A book of short stories set in England and in one case in New York city. Light and entertaining about people solving interesting mysteries or trying to help people but always bungling it.
I skipped the second half as it contained stories of Jeeves (which I've already read) and Reggie Pepper (which I mean to read in chronological order).
But the first half has a couple of perfectly charming tales, classic Wodehouse with a little romance, a little mischief, and plenty of legitimately chortling belly-laughs.
The title story is a rarity with ol' PG trying not to be funny but instead giving us a quite serviceable murder mystery if one likes that sort of thing (which I do).
But then it's right back to his hilarious hijinks in that manner which is his alone.
Vintage Wodehouse, what could be better?!
This is a collection of random stories: a murder mystery, a few Jeeves stories and some Reggie Pepper stories. The Jeeves stories are the best and the others seem to drift.
This is a rather odd book, because the first two stories are mysteries that feel as if they're trying to be Agatha Christie or Dorothy Sayers. There's an element of suspense and realizing secrets while the others are two Jeeves and Wooster stories and two Reggie Pepper ones. Those feel more like what I think of in terms of Wodehouse with comments on class and ever so slightly stupid rich men trying to figure out what to do. I'm glad to have read these stories but I think next time, I'll aim for a Wodehouse that's all the comedy tales.
I really enjoyed this book. I enjoy having short books to read during the week when I don't have much time so this was perfect. I honestly guessed who did it at the very beginning but that's because I've watched and read thousands of mysteries. I didn't guess how he did it though and that was quite interesting. if you're a murder mystery fan and just need a quick read, this is a great book.
I must not have known there was only one brief short story left in this book when I set it aside ages ago. I picked it up again last night and read the last story, a silly and fun comedy in the author's very British style, and I enjoyed it. But when I look back, the book just isn't very memorable. The only story I remember at all is the titular one, which was really rather clever. I could probably take or leave this one. On to the next.
This is a good collection of short stories, most with the usual Wodehouse charm. There are two Wooster and Jeeves stories and a couple of Reggie Pepper stories. The titular story is one of the ones that is not in the usual vein. Unfortunately, it doesn't really work as a mystery story. It is not the best story in the collection.
I did not much like the first three narratives in this collection, but the last half of the book (especially the two Jeeves and Wooster short stories) made up for the slow start and made me conclude that the book deserved three stars. The title story, Death at the Excelsior, made me sort of glad Wodehouse gave up on crime fiction early on (it's the first short story in the book).
This is a collection of Wodehouse's short stories put together by Project Gutenburg. Some of them, including two about Bertie Wooster and Jeeves, have been published in other collections, however Death at the Excelsior was the first Wodehouse story in the 'detective' genre that I have read. It was interesting to see him trying his hand at something else.
One of the better collection from PGW...This one got 2 Wooster & Jeeves tales and 2 of Reggie Pepper's. I'm beginning to like Reggie. He's like an Edwardian Larry David, never stops turning a trifling matter into an imbroglio mostly due to his own lack of 'elegance'.'Death at the Excelsior' story may not be a great murder mystery but it still has a nice twist in the end.
First story in this collection is an acceptable, but not exceptional, short mystery -- worth mentioning since this isn't a genre in which Wodehouse did much work. The rest are short stories in a familiar Wodehousian vein (best of which are "The Best Sauce", a pleasant light romance, and "Jeeves in the Springtime"). Perhaps not his best work, but enjoyable nonetheless.
Early Wodehouse including a stab at a Conan Doyle (not a success) and stories involving a Bertie Wooster prototype called Reggie Pepper - interesting but limited by having no Jeeves equivalent. Later recycling is evident
