https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31052.Don_t_Shoot_the_Dog_
A fabulous and easy-to-understand book about how to best use behaviorism.
Essentially, the study of human and animal behavior - so this book sheds light on the most effective principles to use if you want to better the way you act.
Positive reinforcement, or praising people for performing the desired behavior, has been linked to many more favorable outcomes.Overall, recommended if you are interested in psychology or why humans act the way they do.
Clear, concise, and in large part optimistic, Karen Pryor has written a wonderful book about behaviorism with Don't Shoot the Dog!.
She is a delightful woman I am now proud to know, and I enjoyed many a thought-provoking conversation with her throughout the week, on a number of different subjects.One of the books she was reading (it turned out it was Kyrana’s copy of the book, so both of them are huge fans of it), and not for the first time, was this book entitled, Don’t Shoot the Dog!
Kyrana had learned to love the book when working as a wild animal handler and trainer.Written by Karen Pryor, one of the trainers who put clicker training on the map, this is an amazingly intelligent, well-written study on behavior training and communication.
A good book if you are training animals. I would recommend it if you want to teach your dog or cat new tricks. However, she attempts to relate all of her training techniques to human relationships: how to train your kids, how to train your lovers, how to train your friends. I cannot say that I agree with this method at all, since we, as humans, have much better means of communicating and understanding, and when we start to "train" friends and family,I dont see how that is any different than mani
A good book if you are training animals. I would recommend it if you want to teach your dog or cat new tricks. However, she attempts to relate all of her training techniques to human relationships: how to train your kids, how to train your lovers, how to train your friends. I cannot say that I agree with this method at all, since we, as humans, have much better means of communicating and understanding, and when we start to "train" friends and family,I don´t see how that is any different than manipulating them.
This is surprisingly relevant to my own academic work, which involves thinking about how certain narrative structures/forms produce patterns of affective response, which in turn shapes the way readers interpret the material they're reading *and* the social worlds they inhabit.
Rather, I'm thinking about how literary communities like fandoms encourage readers to see themselves as capable interpreters and potential content-creators in their own right -- in part by positively reinforcing certain behaviors and by making reading itself a form of community-building.
Забавная книга об искусных методах манипуляции окружающими, у которой есть три больших недостатка (начну с недостатков, а потом сконцентрируюсь на достоинствах): 1) ужасный перевод на русский 2) американский популизм, сквозь который на каждом шагу приходится прорываться 3) отсутствие защиты от дурака, который пойдёт и будет делать “по букварю” всё так, как в ней описано.Наибольшую пользу от этой книги можно получить, если любить людей и исходить из всленского блага.
Причём описаны разные инструменты методики и каждому сопустсвует объяснение, почему так, а не иначе.В общем при правильном настрое на то, что книга крайне практического толка, а местами даже несколько примитивная, от её прочтения можно полуить ощутимую пользу и получить пару инструментов на предмет того, как, например, не скандалить с мужем или не идти на поводу у назойливых родственников.
I wanted a more positive method of managing self and other destructive behaviors that are a natural part of teen life but need to be curtailed for survival and success as a human being.
And if you try too hard to run their lives, they can simply walk out the door.As it turns out, just a few days after starting the book, by using Pryor's positive approach, I am getting fast results with both kids and dogs and the kids are loving the dog training we are doing so that part has become a family bonding project.
I owe a lot of what I do to Karen Pryor and people who worked to make positive reinforcement training what it is today.The book is well written, easy to read despite Pryor's usage of scientific terms.
Discover the motivation and alter the behavior.Yeesh.It may be unfair to pick on a book so highly regarded in the training world because of a few instances.
But the fact is many amateurs in training and behavior will pick up this book and not know where the author is outdated, or wrong, or just incomplete.
Overall, good material on positive reinforcement and training methods.
She believes in using positive reinforcement in every area of life, whether with a pet or a difficult roommate.
A year or two ago when surfing the net I found a conservative excoriation of an article in the New York Times in which the author used positive reinforcement to train her husband.
Really, it involves training oneself as much as the dog or the other person.
Here's the NY Times article: What Shamu Taught Me About a Happy MarriageActually, turns out that this book isn't mentioned anywhere in the article.
Nice positive reinforcement.
Man, this book was AMAZING. Everyone should read it.It's about using positive reinforcement and behavioral training, not just in the context of training a dog, but for use with . . . everyone. Roommates, co-workers, husbands, dolphins, you name it.I want Chris to read this book because I want him to use it on me. I think that I respond very well to positive reinforcement!
The book seems to mainly talk about training animals, but if you're willing to experiment, I believe it is a good guide on how you can use some of the principles listed to shape your relationship with others.
By using this principle as your guide, and using the methods listed in the book, you'll see that it's not at all a humiliating practice.
For example, the author talks about how she "trained" her mother to have a pleasant conversation with her every time she calls, rather than ending with tears and accusations which only makes her avoid the calls.
This was the first book I read on clicker training and I read it in 2006, Bonnie (then a pup - now a Dog Scout) watched intently as I read pages and then tried things out "on her".
One day I left the book on the coffee table and returned from a phone call only to find Bonnie with paws planted firmly on the book proudly sharing that she had ripped it in half.
Needless to save "I did not shoot the dog (-o: " we continued with Karen's program and my timing improved, my knowledge grew and we have had fun ever since.
She’s used operant conditioning to train everything from fish to orcas, cats to elephants, children to co-workers.
An accessible review on dog training with some interesting suggestions for adapting it to in-law management and tennis practice.
It was more than usually self-aggrandizing, which would have been easier to accept if she hadn’t had a cat put to sleep because she couldn’t figure out how to train it out of an unpleasant behavior (peeing on the burners).
I don’t know why she included that particular story, other than perhaps show she’s not a woo-woo sentimentalist.
Also I don’t care about tennis.
I had to read this book as homework for an intensive DBT training and am so glad that I did! This is a wonderful book which clearly explains behavioral reinforcement. I use the concepts as a therapist, a wife, and a dog owner. The book is easy to understand and gives lots of relatable examples.
Ironically, this is required for my human behavior course.
This is a great book. but it actually plays fast and loose with negative reinforcement and punishment at times, which I find maddening. Still, it's is a good read when trying to figure out solid, research-based approaches to pet and human behavior issues.
I first read this book as a young pre-teen on the advice of one of my instructors, and I am forever indebted to him for he way this shaped my thinking and interactions with animals (and people) throughout my life. This book has held up to several rereads over the years, & it is a simple & easy to understand introduction to the world of behavior modification. Highly recommend this book.
So I picked this up after going to Clicker Expo, Karen Pryor's clicking training seminar thinking I really should read this.
I've read other books about shaping and have been clicker training for a while.
It was effective in part because of the novelty of the reinforcer.One of the main messages of the book is that punishment is not a very effective or reliable way to change behavior.
I really liked this book and would recommend it to anyone who's interested in behavior in any species or trains humans or animals.
By successive approximations you shape the behavior; joyously, the animal shapes your behavior, finding more and more precise ways to get you to click and treat.
It's an amazingly positive training method, and has the benefit of teaching the trainer to look for things she likes, about her animal and eventually, the broader world.Karen Pryor writes so clearly, and as a children's book writer I appreciate that.
If, like most of us, you live with fellow sentient beings, you'll not only enjoy the book, but learn skills that will make everyone's life more pleasant.Also read Karen's new book, Reaching the Animal Mind.
And not just for animal training.
As I was reading it I thought how useful the book's methods would be in "training" (manipulating) people to do/behave how I want them to.
The book's not long, but it took me a while because I found my mind wandering as I was reading it.
It can be a little textbooky, but Pryor's personal accounts and stories are a lot of fun and serve as great examples for the methods she's describing.
So, although I found parts of it a little tough to get through, the information is well worth the struggle.
QoD had a podcast that asked the question, what do you wish you knew before you had kids?, that referenced this book about positive feedback and affirmation, saying it's the ONLY way to train a chicken, and it's a good place to start with kids.So I read the book (even though my kids are now 22, 19, and 16 and I figured there's almost no hope of retraining them!) and really enjoyed it.
I do wish I had read it 23 years ago and would recommend it to anyone with children or pets.
This is an intensely interesting read that was recommended to me by my daughter, who thought I might find practical, people application from an animal training book that was among her psychology curriculum.
Quite insightful and fascinating, and one that I will want to read again frequently, just to refresh myself.The animal training game is now a favorite in my family.
And the animal training wisdom?...Invaluable character shaping tools for personal growth as well as relationship strengthening for parents, spouses, friends, acquaintances...and even the occasional adversary.
I especially like the focus on kindness.Oh, and I imagine the techniques would work excellently for training animals as well.
I learned my lesson from that awful Cesar Milan book and only Picked and chose the parts that seemed applicable to me and what I needed.
This is NOT a dog book.
This is a book on positive reinforcement that can help in any aspect of your life from friends who are perpetually late to a child who misbehaves to...yes, your annoying dog (but really it's favorite animal to highlight is dolphins and how many of us have pet dolphins?).
Seemed like a decent book but not at all what I was looking for and -it seemed to me-the least helpful for dog behaviors, much more applicable for humans.
Good overview of positive training.
I found the parts distinguishing positive reinforcement, negative reinforcement, and shaping to be extremely useful.
I also appreciated the in-depth discussion of shaping, and the discussion of various ways to associate cues with behavior (makes sense to me to shape first and associate later, so that it's less likely that your cue just gets ignored).
I found the parts of the book talking about human interactions to be the least useful/informative.
This is definitely more a book on theory than on concrete steps, but it's good background for the other Puppy reading I'm doing and gives the 'why' behind those methods .
The book that arguably started the entire clicker-training movement. A good book for understanding positive reinforcement-based training of all people and animals. I disagree with some of her starting points and conclusions, such as the evolutionary origin of behaviors, and the avoidance of all punishment with children, but overall it was an interesting and insightful book. A good book for anyone involved in training animals who wants to understand why positive reinforcement and clicker-training work.
This book gripped me immediately and resonated in many seemingly unrelated fields: team leading and management, parenting, being a teacher, being a student, game development and of course, training a dog. I could not stop talking about it with anyone who would listen and will be buying it for anyone who is interested.
Here are someone's notes: http://fiddlemath.net/?p=41
Подкрепление изменяет поведение только тогда, когда дается в правильно выбранный момент.==========Для тех, кто воспитан в гуманистических традициях, воздействие на поведение человека при помощи своего рода осознанной техники кажется непоправимо безнравственным, несмотря на тот очевидный факт, что все мы пытаемся влиять на поведение друг друга любыми попавшимися под руку средствами.==========нельзя разрешать заводить детей, прежде чем он не сумеет обучить цыпленка, подразумевая, что опыт достижения результатов в обучении существа, к которому невозможно применить силу, должен показать вам, что для воспитания ребенка вы так же не нуждаетесь в применении силы.==========Положительное подкрепление — это событие, совпадающее с каким-либо действием и ведущее к увеличению вероятности повторного совершения этого действия.==========Поведение, которое уже встречается вне зависимости от того, насколько оно спорадично, всегда можно усилить с помощью положительного подкрепления.==========Самое главное в обучении с подкреплением то, что вы не можете подкрепить поведение, которое не встречается.==========В качестве подкрепления надо выбирать нечто желаемое субъектом.==========Оно лежит в основе искусства делать подарки точно угадать, что будет иметь подкрепляющее действие (правильный выбор является подкреплением и для делающего подарок).==========В нашем мире человек, выработавший в себе наблюдательность в отношении положительного подкрепления, имеет большие преимущества перед другими.==========Допустим, сидя в гостиной у тетушки, я случайно положила ноги на кофейный столик.
Awesome and interesting. Not just about dogs.........
Но окружающий мир пока к этому еще не готов, а без жизни в обществе мы теряем больше, чем приобретаем, приходится действовать старым добрым кнутом и пряником.Книга "Не рычите на собаку" идеальна для понимания законов кнута, и в особенности пряника, что как нельзя кстати в современном методе воспитания детей, когда у тебя есть только ведро рыбы и доброе слово, без пистолета; а на работе и в жизни процветают только практики вин-вин отношений.
Основы преподаны отлично, методики великолепно работают тем лучше, чем приземленнее существо, т.е живет менее осознанной жизнью, что автоматически помещает книгу в библиотеку зожовика.
I had heard this book was about training animals but could be extrapolated to "training" human behavior too, and I read it for the latter reason.
The book actually turned out to be about 80% animal-specific.
Pryor had to do some stretching of content to apply it to humans, and even then it took some mental gymnastics on my part to imagine how the principles might apply in my own life.
Nevertheless I learned a few things about Skinner's style of behavioral training, and thought Pryor did a good (if sometimes erudite) job of demonstrating through lots of examples how to apply it effectively in a variety of different contexts.
