https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1031422.The_Two_Ocean_War
Morison gives a concise overview of the major campaigns and battles in which the U.S. Navy participated, and overall naval strategy throughout the war.
For operation in which multiple branches of service were involved, such as amphibious invasions, he gives enough of an overview for the reader to understand the operation as a whole, but always focuses specifically on the Navy's role.
The writing is crisp, lucid and easy to follow, with occasional unexpected flights into poetic description of the scene before a battle or a divertingly frank assessment of a commander's capabilities and character.
For a good clear overview of what happened when and where in the naval campaigns, it serves admirably well.
For most of my life I have had an interest in reading the WW II.
Published in 1963 and written by the official historian for WW II of the US Navy, I believe that this is one of the better books written about the war.
Samuel Elliott Morrison, a history Professor at Harvard, received a commission to in the Navvy and served on warships during the war.
This volume is a condensed version of his 15 volume official history of the war.He praises the actions of the Navy where needed and hands out criticism were merited.
I enjoyed the book.
Perhaps the finest short naval history of WWII written in the old style...with all the limitations that implies. Ugly biases creep through at times, as I suppose they must when you consider the impact of the author's US Navy 'embedding' on his objectivity. Perhaps sitting through a kamikaze attack would skew anyone's impression of the enemy. Overall an excellent read despite this; particularly notable is the brutal campaign history of "the Slot" off Guadalcanal.
Morison here offers a great one-volume summary of his History of U.S. Naval Operations in World War II. It is the place to start if you want to learn about what the U.S. Navy did during the Second World War, which is certainly essentail to understanding the conflict.
This is an abridgment of the author's multi-volume work on the same subject. Informative and readable, it is a solid book for historians of the conflict. For an exciting and dynamic narrative, you might look elsewhere. I have an older edition and the print was quite small. Hope newer printings have corrected that. So it was slow reading but worthwhile.
A very good overview on what US Navy operations in World War Two were. Outside of the name dropping, I felt this book was clear and without to much fluff. The fact that he did not try and hide the bad issue that happened was also a change from most books on this subject. Worth the time to read for any who want to know what happened during those frightful years.
Very, very well written for a military non-fiction. Very readable with enough specifics to keep the reader well informed of the minutiae while continually focusing on the larger picture and personalities that drove the Naval war effort, still the whole book is a love story written by the Navy and for the Navy and reads as such.
This summary of naval warfare in WW 2 will leave the reader begging for more. I now wish to explore P.T. Boat engagements with vigor, all because of the far too brief narrative which Morison delivers.
Thrilling sections from a naval point of view.
However, he occasionally finds room to spark the imagination with an evocative detail (sailors' pet names for their ship, a German copy of "Murders in the Rue Morgue" bubbling up from the wreckage of a submarine).As a reader, I'm usually more interested in the human stories behind the grand narratives of battle.
Readers more interested in the human face of the war, the political maneuvers behind it, the cultural impact on the nations that endured it, and other not-strictly-military topics, will probably want to look elsewhere.
Large comprehensive book that covers just about every movement of the US Navy in the 2nd World War.
It shows in the prose when Mr Morison described the adversaries as "the enemy" whereas the men of the US Navy were "our boys.As an example, the sentence on page 457 read "The Japanese admiral (Kurita) was sadly bewildered by the way everything we had afloat or airborne went baldheaded for him."The publisher has included a list of "Illustrations" and "Charts." But the paperback version has no photos, only the charts.
If the photographs were omitted to keep down the price of the paperback version,the publisher should at least have deleted the list of "Illustrations" instead of retaining it to tantalize the readers.It is no defense to argue that the bias was unavoidable.
To paraphrase Morison, Americans in World War I left the reputation of a brave, almost foolhardy, amateur.
The Two Ocean War is an excellent overview of the US Navy's contributions to victory in World War II.
Morison begins with the dreadful state of the Navy prior to Pearl Harbor.
I guess that is what we must expect from an "official" history.I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the US Navy during World War II.
It is an excellent overview that will leave a reader wanting to follow up with more focused histories of specific events.
Distilled from Morison's definitive fifteen volume set, The Two-Ocean War is a comprehensive recounting of WWII's naval war, detailing both the large fleet actions of the Pacific as well as the Allied struggles against the German U-Boats in the Atlantic.
After Midway the book loses some momentum, but is still a great read till the end.My biggest complaint is that I did not agree with Morison's generous treatment of Halsey's actions in the Battle of Leyte Gulf.
Some of the larger points - the differing views on the role of naval support in the Atlantic theater vs the Pacific one of them - were newer to me, and are interesting to consider.
A note for the reader: Morison was literally a commander in the Naval Reserve during the war, and was commissioned by FDR to produce this work.
In that sense, The Two-Ocean War is interesting not simply as an examination of naval combat in WWII, but also our view of the conflict at a time when it was more proximate to us.
Morison won two Pulitzers because he was a great writer.
Midway was good luck, Having the Japs do such a piss-poor job of bombing Pearl Harbor was really good luck, and on and on.This book undertakes the titanic (ha) struggle and makes it as readable as any thriller.
I've read it twice and will probably read it again, even tho I have 150 books to read on the shelf.Morison wrote 15 volumes based on his placement as an historian by FDR on 10 or so warships all during the war.
This book extracts from the 15, and adds to them as well.
Morison captured me with his inimitable way of smoothing the reader's way forward.
The story shuttles between the Atlantic and the Pacific, as newspaper headlines did for wartime readers.
Morison gives a broad overview, pointing us to key factors--supplies, logistics, radar advances, tactical decisions by Doenitz and Yamamoto, vagaries of leadership style--but he does not shield us from vivid and specific descriptions of the horrible and costly realities of sea battle.
Nor does Morison mince words as he reviews battles and evaluates leadership and decisions--tactical error or brilliant move?
Non-naval history buffs in another century may find themselves surprised and moved by Morison's achievement.
I came away from the book not only with a much more complete understanding of the naval aspects of World War II, but also a strong appreciation for the fantastic scale of the war and all that it entailed.
It's simply incredible what the US and other nations accomplished when they truly put their mind to either conquering or saving the world.
My only complaint, and a relatively minor one at that, was that Morrison often assumed that the reader was familiar with the various types of ships and airplanes employed by the different sides, and it would have been useful to have an appendix or running descriptions.
Too big a topic to cover in one volume.
It is only a little more than a listing of naval actions with the ships involved and the important commanders.
This book had diagrams of ship movements in the major WWII naval battles, particularly in the Pacific.The diagrams show patterns that make little sense, as the fleets often never actually made visual contact with the ships they were engaging.
Movement was undertaken to launch or recover plains from carriers, avoid or chase submarines, take advantage of cloud cover (with the limits of newly developed radar), get into or out of range of land based aircraft.
Amazingly thorough review of the role of the US Navy during WWII. Really informative and detailed without being overly pedantic. (His 15 volume compilation of WWII naval activities is, necessarily, extremely detailed and basically unreadable. It is an extremely valuable reference source.) This book focuses on the major activities, personalities and decisions make to conduct war efforts. It was published in 1963, so information classified at that time but now released to the public is not included.
Огромный по своему объёму и кропотливости труд на 15 томов втиснутый в двухтомное документальное произведение. Немного поначалу утомляет тотальное внимание к мелочам, но в итоге это же и восхищает. Полностью раскалываются характеры как генералов со всех сторон так и их мотивы, причины действий и побуждения. Отличная Кинга для всех любителей истории. Понравившаяся цитата: «Авианосец, находящийся вблизи места акустического контакта, чувствует себя, как пожилая леди в баре, где началась драка. Ей здесь нечего делать, кроме как постараться побыстрее уйти».
Epic in its scope - Morison basically attempts nothing less than to tell the full combat history of the U.S. Navy in WWII - it's quite an excellent survey of those operations. Despite Morison's sometimes stilted delivery - which calls to mind an academic with no perspective on combat - one must remember that Morison actually did experience most of the events he recounts, from the Battle of the Atlantic to the kamikazes in the last desperate battles in the Pacific.
If you can't afford to splash out on the full sixteen-volume History of United States Navy Operations In World War II, this is the next best thing. Renowned as a historian even before he undertook that massive work, Morison does an excellent job condensing all sixteen volumes into one compact book that hits all the high (and low) points of the Navy's progress to victory in the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans against the Axis powers.
A condensation of Morison's masterful 15 volume history of the US Navy in WW2, this book is brilliant.In 1942-3 the Nazis were sinking 100 ships a month in the Atlantic.In 1942, Japan controlled all of the pacific except Australia, Hawaii and New Zealand.It is amazing that we survived and won - the Navy played an immense part.Reads like an adventure story!
I read this in 5th grade for the first time, and have been hooked on military history ever since... it's in depth yet brief overviews of every major naval battle/campaign of WWII give an excellent introduction to the subject.Someday, when I grow up, I'm gonna get Morison's 13 volume official U.S. Navy history.
An excellent, if dated, history of the U.S. Navy in World War II. Since Morison was present for many of the battles he describes, the book reads like an adventure novel at times. While there are newer and more thorough histories on this topic available, "The Two-Ocean War" is an enduring and engaging piece of historical writing.
A truly fine book for what it offers by way of a "Short History" of the U.S. Navy in WWII. It's a wonderful alternative for those of us who, for whatever reason, won't read the author's 15-volume treatment of the subject. I was surprised at how readable and enjoyable this single volume was. Morrison wrote like the scholar, historian, and eye-witness participant that he was.
Samuel Eliot Morison = WWII US Naval History. This particular book is entitled "A Short History of the United States Navy in the Second World War". This book is a good overview of the major battles fought on the seas during WWII.
Morison's 7,000 or so page History of United States Naval Operations in World War II reduced to less than 700 pages for those who want to say they've read it but don't want invest months doing so. It's surprising how addictive it is.
Samuel Morison has written a good history of the U.S. Navy during WW II. Admiral Morrison history is mildy influenced by his action in the war. This volume will be in depth enough for most history buffs. People needing a more look at the war can read Morison's 15 volume history of the war.
