https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/113946.How_the_Grinch_Stole_Christmas_
My all-time favorite Dr. Seuss' story!  HOW THE GRINCH STOLE OUR HEARTS AND SOULS  It could be his head wasn’t screwed on just right.  It could be, perhaps, that his shoes were too tight,  But I think that the most likely reason of all  May have been that his heart was too sizes too small, Okay, people, this is it! This is my favorite tale by Dr. Seuss, and I am quite certain that it must be the most popular and known of his works. We are in Who-ville again and The Grinch is up to no good with
This is my favorite tale by Dr. Seuss, and I am quite certain that it must be the most popular and known of his works.
We are in Who-ville again and The Grinch is up to no good with mischievious plans to steal Christmas from there.But you can’t steal something that really is immaterial.The very word “Grinch” has been added to our common talk in Christmas’ season, as a true testament of the real impact of Dr. Seuss’ work in our popular world culture.One of the strongest message by Dr. Seuss remembering us that Christmas isn’t in a store, it isn’t something that you receive, but it’s something in your heart and soul that you happily give to others.
I probably watched this show about a million times and read the book as a kid at least as many and it was immensely pleasurable to share it with my kids. A wonderful story about the real spirit of giving and love. It might be my very favorite xmas story of all. An absolute must.
Book Review  4+ stars to How the Grinch Stole Christmas!, a children's picture book, written in 1957 by Dr. Seuss. I adored this favorite as a child, and I still watch the cartoon ever year at Christmas. I've also seen the Jim Carrey movie and will watch that one, too. It's such a wonderful take of love and revenge...Most folks who celebrate Christmas must have read or seen some version of this story at some point in their lives. If not, it's basically a grinch that wants to stop Christmas bec
4+ stars to How the Grinch Stole Christmas!, a children's picture book, written in 1957 by Dr. Seuss.
I adored this favorite as a child, and I still watch the cartoon ever year at Christmas.
It's such a wonderful take of love and revenge...Most folks who celebrate Christmas must have read or seen some version of this story at some point in their lives.
If not, it's basically a grinch that wants to stop Christmas because he has no heart...
I love this story and would watch it All the "who" people and the way the town celebrates Christmas...
5 The Grinch ★'s  “All the windows were darkNo one knew he was hereAll the Who's were all dreamingSweet dreams without care…” Obviously How the Grinch Stole Christmas! is a 5 star rating. I mean come on it deserves NOTHING less. Seeing as how it is a positively brilliant classic!! I know it's a children's picture book, that was written back in 1957 by the one and only Dr. Seuss but this book is everything. It feels as though I have always known about The Grinch, it has always been a HUGE part of
Obviously How the Grinch Stole Christmas!
I know it's a children's picture book, that was written back in 1957 by the one and only Dr. Seuss but this book is everything.
It feels as though I have always known about The Grinch, it has always been a HUGE part of my childhood (every Christmas).
The illustrations are big and bold and are really fun.
I enjoy all of the rhymings too it makes it that much more fun when reading aloud with kids.
“Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before!
What if Christmas, he thought, doesn't come from a store.
What if Christmas...perhaps...means a little bit more!”
Come on Grinch,Don't be a spoilsport.I and my wife are surely reading to our little Who's when they are born.The undercurrent of the story presents to you a question as to not "How" but rather "Why" did the the Grinch stole the Christmas from the merry making Who people.Every Who down in Whoville liked Christmas a lotBut the Grinch who lived just North of Whoville did not!The Grinch hated Christmas!
Sweets and light and everything associated with the near end of December.Grinch is like that Grumpy old catJust outside the perimeters of the happy village of our little people, lives in a cave The Grinch.
The perfect book. My nephew wanted to read this tonight. It's his favorite Christmas book. You can't beat it. The art is so creative and distinctive. The movies just use his art right out of the book.I'm glad this is still as popular as ever. It has a wonderful message also.
So lovely and positively brilliant. Just inspiring!My first book by Dr. Seuss, everyone!And now onto the movie!! Gosh I love Christmas. ❤❤
Of course it is a five star rating. How could it be less. I can pretty much say it by heart when I read it at Christmas time. It is always brought out, just like the Night Before Christmas.Those reading always takes center stage in our Christmas traditions. Once we read the book, we watch the original cartoon. sometimes we even watch the movie The Grinch to top off the perfectly Grinchy evening.
The ending is very abrupt too – almost jarring – in how suddenly it wraps things up.My biggest criticism though is telling kids that Christmas isn’t about material presents but about something more substantial, meaningful and profound like community, friends and family.
A laudable sentiment from an adult’s perspective, and understandable coming from a childless man like Dr Seuss was; except, for kids, Christmas IS about material presents – that’s the whole point!
The message in this book, attempting to take that joy away from kids, is an almost Grinch-like sentiment!
grands love this story. Have read it many times.
Every Who down in Whoville liked Christmas a lotBut the Grinch who lived just North of Whoville did not!The Grinch hated Christmas! The whole Christmas season!Now, please don't ask why. No one quite knows the reason.It could be, perhaps, that his shoes were too tight.It could be his head wasn't screwed on just right.But I think that the most likely reason of allMay have been that his heart was two sizes too small. Come on, you know the story.In Whoville, live the Whos, an almost mutated sort of
Every Who down in Whoville liked Christmas a lotBut the Grinch who lived just North of Whoville did not!The Grinch hated Christmas!
Come on, you know the story.In Whoville, live the Whos, an almost mutated sort of munchkinlike people.
All the Whos love Christmas, yet just outside of their beloved Whoville lives the Grinch.
The Grinch is a nasty creature that hates Christmas, and plots to steal it away from the Whos which he equally abhors.
Then the Grinch thought of something he hadn't before.Maybe Christmas, he thought, doesn't come from a store.Maybe Christmas, perhaps, means a little bit more!
Seventeen years ago, I've watched the movie adaptation of this classic children's story book. Both the movie and the book version are remarkable and excellent. I love how it shows that even those who have the heart of ice still have that soft side in them.
This was my first time ever reading this and I thought it was very good :)
Επιτέλους κυκλοφόρησε κ στα ελληνικά και το διαβάσαμε με το μικρό μου Χομπιτ. Και φυσικά του άρεσε πολύ.
Whenever someone asks me if I celebrate Christmas and I'm about to be catty and say that I don't because I'm not a Christian, I wish an alert would sound in my ear and warn me not to be like Grinch. "Don't steal Christmas, Yulia. Don't do it!"
Not at all.But no seriously: The Grinch is one of my favourite Christmas movies.
A secret you probably never knew: I'm the inspiration for the Grinch.Ok, just kidding, BUT: I love the illustrations & though I like the movie a bit more, it was still a cute little read, bringing closer the true meaning of christmas, for me, coming together as a family, being grateful for what we have & giving something back to others, no matter in what form.
For me, it's truly only about my family & the only thing I wish for is for them and my cats to be healthy and happy....
How can anyone not love Dr. Seuss or the Grinch? I grew up on the Christmas animated cartoon that always showed on T.V. and the book was just an added bonus to a wonderful story. I can still sing that song. A wonderful story and a great book to pass down through generations and a great way to start a family tradition of reading a story at Christmas time. Who says it always has to be the Night Before Christmas?
WoW! I Am Not A Christmas PersonMaybe Not Quite A Grinch Christmas To Me Is What Newman From Seinfeld Is To Jerry LOLWe Never Figure Out Why He Hates NewmanThis Book Has Always Made Me Smile And Will Melt Anyone's Grinch HeartThe Movie!! My One And Only Christmas Tradition
" Then he got an idea. An awful idea. The grinch got a wonderful, awful idea. "Not my first time reading it by any means, but just read it with my kids for a bedtime story. I forgot how the grinch is kinda my favorite Christmas related character :)

Really cute and christmassy
I've just now read this classic, a long way out of Christmas season, and discovered it was a lot more amusing than the film and the cartoon adaptations, which were until today my only sources of knowledge about the plot. It's much simpler than both, more focused on children, and devoid of the superfluous romantic elements the Jim Carrey film had. Definitely better! And with a clearer message.
It is time I know these famous stories thus, snatching a copy second-hand, I started with this 1957 publication.
I liked it and appreciated the visual, temperamental, and eccentric segments of humour sprinkled throughout this tale.From the authorship credits it appeared Theodor served as illustrator too.
I am glad to know this famous story.
Since Dads can be grouchy, I enlisted mine to read this for us Christmas Eve. My own scheme, to keep spirits pointing in a positive direction, worked!
My favourite part was when Dad read of crumbs too small for a mouse.
Really enjoyed this book! The illustrations are really fun and I enjoyed the rhyme of the story. Overall a fun book. Reading this for the first time as an adult probably made it 4 instead of 5 stars. Still a very nice little Christmas read.
I cannot begin to guess how many times I have seen the 1966 animated television special to date, but when I was little, it was a once a year celebration.
Something completely lost to this generation is the glory of anticipation...looking in the TV Guide to see when your holiday favorites would be on and then waiting seemingly FOREVER for the day to come, then asking your mom 10,000 times how much more time until 8 PM.
This was gold, and after waiting all that time, you were all in.
The tv special is exactly the same as the book and it is pure magic.
It was excellent. And I enjoyed the cartoon that showed on TV that was made from that book.
It’s that time of year and I can’t believe I never read this book till now! What?
WrensReads Review:So I don't really need to talk about how great this book is.
I think this is a great story to realize you're a Grinch.It doesn't even have to be Christmas.
Valentine's Day: are you a "Single Awareness Day" person?Thanksgiving: are you a "Brown Thursday" person?Halloween: are you a "This is the Devil's Holiday" person?You get what I am getting at.
Valentine's Day: love the people in your life!Thanksgiving: spend time with your family and your friends!
Be thankful!Halloween: dress as someone else for the night and have fun!The Grinch is a all-around lesson for not being a party-pooper and just find the joy in the holiday.
A wonderful children's book. The Grinch not being the kind of person you'd really want to spend time with when the story opens, learns that here is much more to Christmas, than just packages, bows, and ribbons, not to mention feasts and roast beasts.And the world would have been an infinitely better place had Ron Howard never gotten his hands on this story. Really.
“How the Grinch Stole Christmas” is definitely the best out of all of Dr. Seuss’ books that many children will enjoy for many generations.Dr. Seuss’ tale of finding the true meaning of the Christmas spirit has been memorable in many generations’ eyes and the writing is excellent as it is written in a creative way by using a rhyming text that truly showed the creativity of this book.
“How the Grinch Stole Christmas” is Dr. Seuss’ greatest classic as it shows children what the true meaning of Christmas is really all about and has remain to be a true classic in many generations’ hearts.
