https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1686654.Warlock_of_the_Witch_World
After the events of the previous story, the Valley of Green Silences, haven for those who oppose the Shadow in the land of Escore, is ringed around by enemies.
On a mission to the Krogan, a people who depend on water and have gills, but can spend limited time on land, Kemoc meets Orsya, a Krogan woman, who tells him (correctly, as events transpire) that the Krogan will not ally with them; instead, her race will attempt to make a deal with the enemy in order to stay neutral and be left alone.
The book is the story of Kemoc’s efforts to rescue his sister and expose Dinzil’s malevolence.I don’t believe I’m spoiling anything to say that he’s ultimately successful but the price is dear, and Norton again dwells upon a favorite theme in her writing – the personal cost of Power even when wielded for Good.It’s not a bad tale.
Also features the three children of Simon Tregarth and is very good. Quite possibly my favorite of the series.
Kemoc, one of the Witch World triplets, has to rescue his sister who has fallen under the spell of a man who plans to take over Estcarp. In the course of his travels, he meets Orsya one of the water people. Always does a good job of building descriptions, relationships, and cultures.
obviously weak
But although Kyllan finds a niche via his wife and in-laws, and Kaththea finds a place to at least make a new beginning (she hopes), Kemoc finds himself reduced to an envoy and escort, and charged with powers he has no guide on how to use.
Several times he narrowly averts disaster in severely unsettling (even dangerous) ways.To complicate matters, Kemoc is disturbed by the man who is courting Kaththea (Dinzil).
And Kemoc's precognitions seem to indicate that there is no way to save Kaththea and his and Kaththea's companions without killing her.One thing I don't understand is why Kaththea is so easily convinced that her outer appearance is accurately reflective of inner corruption.
But, if it were written today, the reader would likely have been bounced around between the de rigueur of alternating POVs. So avoiding THAT is a plus, as a book should be more than a narrative tennis match.Some of the character motivations were perplexing, including how/why Kaththea was so easily fooled by Dinzil - love is one thing, but she seemingly had no ethical basis nor did she utilize the experience of her training (view spoiler)[ and why was Kemoc, with no training or real experience, able to sense something off about Dinzil, that Dahaun or others from Escore should have sensed?
His discovery of Escore triggered actions that wakened ancient powers (both good and evil).This book continues the tale, as Kemoc, the wizard (warlock) of the triplets, sets out to find allies to help reduce the evil in the land, as freed by his and his brother's actions.
I didn't really "like" Kemoc, as he seemed willing to dismiss his brother as not as important, since Kyllan has no witch powers, but also I didn't like Kaththea, who dismisses Kemoc as 'just a man', even though she follows the Adept – who is also a man.
I am almost ready to upgrade this to 5 stars and upgrade the first book in this trilogy (Three against the Witch World) to a 4.
This book kept me enthralled, and I'm eager to read the next one.The different series in the Witch World books was rather confusing to me.
To assist others, here are several sites with good information:A suggested reading order:http://www.andre-norton-books.com/arc...Although I'm not sure I'd agree with this.
Publication date order is often the best.I like this site better.
It gives a listing of the books by Cycle order and also lists publication date.
I liked the story, but Kemoc's tale involved too much of him being acted upon and no intrinsic acts or powers on his part.
How did his sister become ensnared so easily and quickly without anyone else the wiser?
Really, this book is simply the tale of his sister being corrupted by incredible power and he chases after her with no real ability to save her except that which comes serendipitously through disregarded readings or long ago.
Still, I enjoy the world and will at least read the next to see how the trio makes out.
Next to the first book in the series, I enjoyed this one second-most.
It is mostly Kemoc's tale, who is the son given wisdom by his mother's blessing.
It picks up where the last story left off, with the triplets in the Eastern lands trying to combat an evil that is awake and hunting them.
They have a small group of trusted companions but Kemoc can't reconcile himself with Dinzil.
Dinzil is liked by everyone but Kemoc and he is searching for reasons why when Dinzil disappears with Kemoc's sister.
This was full of action and ended on a cliffhanger which I assume will be concluded in the next book.
Old school fantasy/sci-fi. Wrote my thesis about this book and other Andre Norton's. No feminist protagonist, but strong female characters and even stronger feminist implications.
1977 grade DSeries book W4
Parts of this reminded me of Amber. Kemoc is a slightly frustrating character, but this is an exceptionally well-written book nonetheless.
Again Andre Norton drew me into the story just like the first time I read it back in the 80s.
The pub date on this is...a lie, kinda.The thing dates from 1967. This edition is prolly from '82, sure, but...It's the first SF novel I ever read.
It is an OK book.
Witch World, Book 4
2.5
A 3 only because it is part of a series I am fond of. Otherwise, a 2
I used to REALLY LOVE Andre Norton's books, but that was 40 years ago. I think my tastes have changed. Still, this book was a decent read.
This is definitely a guilty pleasure. I don't know why this half fish/half man was so romantically compelling...but who can predict romantic attraction?
