https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/69521.The_Comforters
While I didn't fall off any chairs holding my aching ribs, my smile to page ratio seemed to be high (view spoiler)[although as with The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie this is humour that can bite, in this case, close to the close of the novel, the family patriarch: He had misgivings then, about his retreats.
The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie is a very different novel, quite how Spark gets there from here is unclear to me as a reader, that path is shrouded in mist.
The riddle of his development remained, perhaps I might also find this to be the case for Spark's novels.
Spark’s debut is a sizzling multi-character romp with an unexpected metafictive subplot and an unexpected Grandma’s-smuggled-diamonds-into-loaves-of-bread subplot, amongst other sub and foreplots. Read the Ali Smith preface in this edition then find an edition with a less revolting cover to read the actual novel. The pace sags but the novel sings. Metafictioneers take note of this one: Spark predates Barth et al by a decade.
For instance, the themes of conversion (She became a Catholic in 1954) and writing a novel (a character in the novel, who is also meditating to write a novel, is obsessed with a thought that she is part of a plot written by a disembodied spirit).About the theme of Conversion:I expect the theme of religion (specifically Catholicism) in Spark's novels.
She writes in the novel in a tongue in cheek manner of a recent convert who justifies his conversion in the following manner: "The wonderful thing about being a Catholic is that it makes life so easy.
Which makes this novel particularly notable, since it is meta-literary and also not boring.
There is no physical evidence that art is any good, or even that it exists (you can't prove that something is a novel by pointing to a thick wad of paper); there's certainly not much evidence that human beings are any good.
Here we have a very good novel, written by a narrator with whom I would love to spend time.
I would love to spend time with the characters.
And all this in the 'fifties, back when nobody was thinking about meta-literary themes, right?
Her up and down health plays out against the background of the Manders family's experiences, which provide the plot and the mystery that drives the storyline.
Laurence, an inveterate snoop, discovers that is grandmother is part of a diamond-smuggling gang (made up of old people and a disabled young man), which creates great consternation for him and his mother (his father is constantly on religious retreats and only finds out about family stuff after the fact).
On top of the diamond-smuggling mystery plot and Caroline's writing projects (an actual book and the hallucinated novel), there is Catholicism.
Having loved The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie, and inspired by the centenary of Muriel Spark's birth, I decided to tackle this, her debut novel.It is a very odd book - but I mean that in a good way.
I am sure when I read more of here work, these skills will be even better employed, but The Comforters is still a remarkable beginning.Ali Smith, no stranger to metafiction herself, has sung its praises, and the influence and reputation of Muriel Spark is justifiably growing.
A gem-smuggling gang led by an elderly grandma, a young woman who hears the words we read on the page in her head and begins to believe she is a character in a novel, a nosy biddy-body who professes to be a devout Catholic while behaving in abominable behavior.
Spark's first novel shows her to have a marvelous way with words - witness this sentence: "Louisa's mirth got the better of her and though her lips were shut she whinnied through her nose like a pony." One occasionally must read paragraphs several times to be sure the correct concept is understood but it is a good read.
Muriel Spark's debut novel is experimental and witty, an early example of meta fiction as Caroline Rose finds herself hearing the tapping of a typewriter and voices speaking the words of a novel that she then sets out to write.
Caroline's ex-boyfriend Laurence is worried about his grandmother who appears to have become involved in a criminal gang.
Their friend Baron Stock is showing an interest in demonology and the unpleasant Mrs Hogg appears to be keeping a close eye on them all.The novel has a strong Catholic theme, exploring ideas of conversion and moral integrity.
The Comforters was Muriel Spark’s first novel published when she was nearly forty, she had only begun writing seriously after the Second World War. Spark, had previously suffered from hallucinations, and she brings this experience and her recent conversion to Catholicism to her extraordinary debut.
While the book was still in proof it was read by Evelyn Waugh, who praised it, the novel’s success meant that Muriel Spark could then afford to write full time.The central character in the novel is Caroline Rose, although it is with her boyfriend Laurence Manders that the novel opens.
L'unica spiegazione che sono riuscita a darmi è che la Spark volesse parlare del bene e del male: la domestica pia che però era la più malefica dei personaggi, il fidanzato ateo della scrittrice convertita che sembrava il più sano di mente, la mamma di questo fidanzato che nonostante fosse credente e praticante sembrava una caricatura dei valori cattolici, il padre che era sempre assente perché doveva andare a ritiri religiosi, etc.

'The decor of Brompton Oratory makes me ill,' she told him, as another excuse.
For when he had met her after the Mass she had turned most sour.'You don't refer to the "decor" of a church,' he said - 'at least, I think not.''What is it then?''I'm not sure of the correct term.
I've never heard it called a "decor".''Very useful, your having been brought up a Catholic,' said Caroline.
Personalmente non considero Muriel Spark un'autrice cattolica, però è certo che il cattolicesimo ebbe un grosso influsso nel suo lavoro.
L'autrice non solo si interroga sulla natura del romanzo, ma addirittura si pone l'obiettivo di riconciliarsi con l'idea di scrivere narrativa attraverso la creazione di un romanzo che sia una riflessione su se stesso e sulla propria tecnica.Se vi interessa approfondire l'argomento, c'è un bel saggio online.The Comforters è però anche un romanzo profondamente autobiografico: la conversione al cattolicesimo della protagonista, Caroline, e le allucinazioni che la convincono di trovarsi all'interno di un romanzo, sono frutto della esperienza personale dell'autrice.
What a very strange book! I have not been able to locate much of a plot summary - and now I know why; it isn't really possible to do so easily. The best description I can manage would be a cross between P. G. Wodehouse and Brideshead Revisted. I enjoyed it as a farce, but if Spark had a "point", I fear it escaped me.
I liked this book in that it was sometimes very dry and funny, sometimes quite shocking, and often made me feel like a complete idiot for not being sure about what was going on.
But Spark never shied away from engaging with as well as critiquing her adopted faith and it’s part and parcel of her outlook which has as much whimsy as scathing satire, though she’s mostly accounted for the latter.As Ali Smith writes in the introduction (which does a great job of spelling out the accomplishments of the book), ‘By the time we reach the Typing Ghost, which declares itself to Caroline by its literal repetitions, this style is already embedded; in many ways the narrator is a joke, the narration a mocking of bad literary style–and as we know by the end of the book, it’s been the narrator all along having the joke, and not on us, but with us.’Of course the main reason you should read it is that it is a delight with a gripping storyline (even when Spark allows us to anticipate what will happen next it’s not at all like we think it is) and enormous fun all along the way.
This is a peculiar read - this is, I guess, all I can say to describe this Muriel Spark's debut novel at best , with my own words anyway.
To be honest, I still haven't been able to figure out what exactly was going on in this book.There are a lot of side plots going and individual bit/plot is really intriguing, but it all felt kind of disjointed on the whole with the plots jumping all over the place, I just can't be 100% sure what I gather what it is about is absolutely right.
First published in 1957, The Comforters is essential reading.
I had no idea that Muriel Spark was so inventive until I heard about this novel in which a woman is haunted by the sound of someone typing, and a voice echoing, so it seems at first, the story of her life.
It makes you question everything and yet there is a tug towards just living the story, even though you know - and at least one of the characters is sure too - that it is all an invention.
Must look into that.An excellent Introduction by Ali Smith, which is, like all introductions (imo), best read afterwards.
Very smart and very very funny.
Absolutely no.Nothing likable about this book
Wonderful. Inventive. The book encapsulates the idea and the practise of religion in a manner as far from a gritty reality novel as is possible. Bravo Muriel Spark.
While working on a book about 20th-century fiction called "Form in the Modern Novel" she is visited by what she calls a "Typing Ghost", an invisible being that repeats and remarks upon her thoughts and actions.Every time Caroline has a thought, it gets echoed by the Typing Ghost.
It said: On the whole she did not think there would be any difficulty with Helena.”Most of the novel is connected to the differing reactions of Laurence and Caroline to these mysteries.
Darkly hilarious. Magically realistic. Muriel Spark's first written, my third read, my first fave.
Yet it also feels unlike her most famous books: somewhat 'talkier' for one; but, perhaps more pressingly, it's more transparent about Spark's Catholicism than necessary, in an unhelpful way.
But "The Comforters" feels much more like the work of the recent convert, in that the concerns of Caroline Rose are predominantly about Catholicism.
Making the Baron a foil to Caroline by putting him in the grip of a diabolist obsession feels a bit glib; he's not really mentally ill, he just completely and willfully misinterprets reality to fit his pet obsession.
Spark juggles so much fascinating material here, often "The Comforters" feels like a Dorothy L.
I am madly in love with Muriel Spark.
And so it was much to my surprise when I realized that I had not read her first novel.
In this smart, fearless first novel she tells one story and numerous stories all at the same time.
Her grandson Laurance is in love with Caroline, a writer, who discovers that she may or may not be a character in a novel that is playing out as she attempts to live her life.
I love authors who trust me, and Spark is one of the most trusting authors I have read.
I think it's because it felt a little laborious and erratic at first, and had it continued in that way I probably would have had trouble enjoying it.
The way she is aware of what's going on but everything trundles on regardless, things happen out of nowhere, people conveniently 'go into retreat', it was a glorious post modern mess that wasn't really a mess.It reminded me of the sort of thing I was told to read at uni, but I rather enjoyed returning to that 'genre' of fiction.I would recommend it, but when you've got a quiet space to read, don't be deceived by the low page number!
I liked the premise and most of the characters except Laurence who was irritating. I need to read the book again especially as I put it down twice which didn't help me focus. I felt that there was too much dialogue.
Strange in places but highly enjoyable. Odd characters in unusual situations for the most part. If you enjoyed Iris Murdoch's 'Under The Net' then you should enjoy this.
The cast of characters is outrageously eccentric, putting it mildly, the plot points funny to the point of slapstick.There's a converted Catholic writer (Caroline Rose) who hears her thoughts spoken out loud, accompanied by the sound of a typewriter - an unseen writer composing the actual novel we're reading, as we're reading it, whom only Caroline can hear; a sweet, unassuming grandmother engaged in a diamond smuggling trade and her grandson Laurence Manders (formerly involved with Caroline, still obviously in love with her), who works for the BBC and is determined to find out what she's up to; a practitioner and devotee of the dark arts, possibly two (one of whom is also a bookseller who declares it's an interest, only); an irritating, universally disliked and paunchy middle-aged disappearing woman who's either a devotee of the dark arts or a staunch Catholic, no less mysterious by the time of her death ...And on it goes."The Comforters was the first of the 22 novels Muriel Spark would write over nearly 50 years, the first of what would become her recognisable but inimitable oeuvre of slim, intelligent, irreverent, aesthetically sophisticated, sometimes Hitchcockianly grim, always philosophically powerful works of fiction.
Certainly I enjoyed Robinson more.This is a very strange little book peopled by some very bizarre characters.
In fact some of them are included in the plot.From the back cover:"Caroline Rose is plagued by the tapping of typewriter keys and the strange, detached narration of her every thought and action.
The best explanation I've come across was in the introduction: "The Comforters is about the act of making things, and people, up, about how and why we make narrative, and about the "kind of truth" which emerges from fiction."Overall, I'm glad I read it, but it's not my favourite of Muriel Spark's work.
