https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45791.The_Ballad_of_the_Sad_Caf_and_Other_Stories
And so the line separating fiction from reality softens, the vision becomes illumination, and maybe through exaggeration, maybe through the projection of a profoundly poetic prose, McCullers creates a universe built on ambiguity where melancholy abounds and an impending sense of loss intoxicates the senses of the reader.Following the tune of an unhurried narrative; characters are introduced, stripped naked, given distinctive traits that stir the lethargic child still hidden inside us who eagerly awaits to be swept off his feet by the end of a fantastic tale.
McCullers’ characters sing in an adult world erected on cheated innocence, a lot of whisky and barren lands where loneliness is the only thing left after the music stopped playing.
While Faulkner plunges in chiaroscuro and O'Connor sears in holy fire, McCullers sings in the twilight of a human soul, casting back on its years in search and always, always, coming up short.
This is a tale that the median of youth and maturity knows, especially when one is Carson McCullers at seventeen.While that was my favorite, the rest are well worth it.
All are a matter of living with those insanities we humans willingly inflict, for living is a must what with self-killing labeled as one of the more wicked sins.
3.5★“But the new pride that the café brought to this town had an effect on almost everyone, even the children.
Miss Amelia grew up in this small town, had a home, ran a still and a store, and was a shrewd negotiator as well as a skilled, self-taught doctor.
The café made a huge difference, whether or not you had money.“But the new pride that the café brought to this town had an effect on almost everyone, even the children.
For in order to come to the café you did not have to buy the dinner, or a portion of liquor.
The once-great artist, burnt out before adulthood; the dissatisfied, lonely housewife who has taken to the bottle in secret; the profound sadness of the pathological liar's psychosis; the old drunken man who has used his obsessive meditations on one particularly acute heartbreak to figure out that humans are doing love wrong, and that they should actually first become slowly and deeply smitten with all the commonplace things around them (A Tree, A Rock, A Cloud) before daring to take on another human being.
"They start at the wrong end of love.
racconti (il primo ed eponimo molto più lungo degli altri) in cui non c’è nulla di gridato, ma tutto ti si insinua nel profondo e lascia intendere che non se ne andrà più. mccullers ha uno sguardo lucido e insieme ricco di umanità, e in più scrive così bene, così dannatamente e misuratamente bene, che a un cuore di pastafrolla come il mio basta la schiettezza del suo stile per uscire dal libro sentendosi come uno dei personaggi marginali che lo popolano.(domandarsi perché. quando cade la tristezza. in fondo al cuore. come la neve. non fa rumore).
The omniscient narrator's (balladeer's?) riffs on the lover and the beloved had me thinking of Proust, though the straightforward prose couldn't be more different from his.The main character of "Wunderkind", a story written when McCullers was 17 and showing the promise that would come to fruition with her first novel, is named Frances, leading me back to Frankie, as Frances is Frankie's given name as well.
In "Madame Zilensky and the King of Finland" the former is tall, something I was starting to see as a given with McCullers' females, in the same way "The Jockey" continues the characterization started off with Cousin Lymon in "Ballad" of very short males.
Not that she wrote in a lesser manner, or that I could've been able to identify Carson McCullers as female until I saw her author photo inside the covers of other editions when I was browsing, just that love is stereotypically thought of as being a womanly emotion and her decision to write only about this one topic led me to dig this hole with no way to get out because I wanted to describe a pink-handled wrench to make fun of those stupid "lady's toolkit" that are smaller and more expensive as manufacturers try to play on gender differences for a profit...am I still in the hole?
She employs her signature style study on heartbreak, cruelty & loneliness, as seen with The Heart is a Lonely Hunter.Set in a town that is 'lonesome, sad, and like a place that is far off and estranged from all other places in the world', with a striking central character Miss Amelia, whose violent & abrupt marriage inspires her to adopt years of solitude.
'the hunchback' character arrives like a tornado, bringing the townsfolk & Miss Amelia out of their small town slumber, to an inevitablely cruel conclusion.The other short stories are great too, but The Ballad is really a stand alone Giant.
L'immensa complessità dell'amoreSette racconti, tutti belli, alcuni molto belli, che ci parlano della complessità dell’amore, delle fragilità umane, della fuggevole felicità, dell’importanza dei sogni (e anche delle bugie), della precarietà del tempo.La prosa di Carson McCullers possiede una malinconia e una suggestività che coinvolgono e – a tratti – incantano.Struggente.Il piano ricominciò: che musica era?
E adesso gli parlava di un altro tempo, un altro luogo: era la musica che Elizabeth suonava sempre.
Il canto melodico fu rotto dalla comparsa di una cameriera.- Signora, la cena è servita.Anche dopo che fu seduto a tavola, tra il padrone e la padrona di casa, la musica incompiuta continuò a pesargli sull’animo.
***************************************STORY 1The Ballad of the Sad Café :3 starsWhat I liked was the feel of the town.
The story and what happens in this small southern town is atmospherically told.
I like slow.***************************************Story 2Wunderkind:5 starsWow, I am not musical and still I understood the agony of the story’s fifteen-year-old who no longer could play the piano as she had before.
****************************************Story 4Madame Zalenski and the King of FinlandNarrator: Suzanne Toren4 starsNot that I understood all of this, but it certainly made me laugh!
I prefer long novels over short stories and novellas, even when the writing is as good as this.
Although the other short stories in this collection were really good it's Carson McCullers ability to write about the sad and lonely nature of small town life that really showcases her talent, and in 'The Ballad of the Sad Cafe' she has beautifully crafted a simple and somewhat bewildering little tale that involves three main parties, the lady owner of a small store(which would later become a cafe), a strange hunchback who she takes to her heart, and her ex con husband who is back in town and looking for trouble.
In uno stile asciutto, che dall’asprezza del primo racconto si va addolcendo, Carson McCullers tratteggia i suoi personaggi, accomunati da un senso di malinconia, insoddisfazione, delusione e paura. È il tempo che passa, di cui uno dei protagonisti acquista consapevolezza alla morte del padre e l’amore gli sembra l’unico appiglio possibile:“Con intima disperazione lo strinse piu forte; come se un’emozione, proteiforme come il suo amore, potesse dominare il polso del tempo”.È la vita che scorre m
È il tempo che passa, di cui uno dei protagonisti acquista consapevolezza alla morte del padre e l’amore gli sembra l’unico appiglio possibile:“Con intima disperazione lo strinse piú forte; come se un’emozione, proteiforme come il suo amore, potesse dominare il polso del tempo”.È la vita che scorre monotona, sempre uguale, per cui un’insegnante di musica si aggrappa alle bugie, perché“Attraverso le menzogne viveva in spirito.
Anche negli altri racconti compresi nella raccolta si vede la qualità, ma lì ha trovate veramente geniali.Intanto, l’uso di un ritmo sincopato della narrazione tra accelerazioni e pause colorate e dolcissime; poi la tecnica dell’anticipazione, usata con grande senso della misura e del tempo, il dialogo diretto col lettore e il filo ben teso del collegamento tra i fatti che racconta e la riflessione che ne trae o che vuole stimolare.
E' una grande cantrice della sconfitta e degli sconfitti la McCullers.
This book is a novella and several short stories. All are entertaining reading, focusing as they do on unusual characters and situations.From a literary viewpoint, Ballad is the most interesting because rather than a single character confronting him/herself or two characters confronting one another, it features a genuine triangle. None of the three characters is particularly appealing but readers will still be sympathetic to the roundabout of unrequited love.The remaining stories are interesting character studies, sometimes ending with a twist. The language is lyrical and readers will feel compassion toward the characters McCullers describes.
Κι αν μέσα σε όλα αυτά συνυπολογίσει κάποιος την καταπιεσμένη και μοναχική φύση της συγγραφέως που υπήρξε ένας ιδιαίτερα βασανισμένος άνθρωπος, μπορεί εύκολα να καταλήξει στο συμπέρασμα πως η ηρωίδα του διηγήματος, η ανδροπρεπής και δυναμική Amelia, είναι μια συμβολική απεικόνιση του εαυτού της.
(view spoiler)[''They were particular friends" (ιδιαίτεροι φίλοι) λέει ο ένας από τους παράγοντες, για τον φίλο του Bitsy που σακατεύτηκε μετά από ένα ατύχημα και απέμεινε χωρίς δουλειά.
Η αποδοχή που της δείχνει τελικά, πηγάζει μέσα από τρία συναισθήματα, την κατανόηση, τον οίκτο και ένα είδος αγάπης που αψηφάει τη συμβατική λογική.
Loved this story. Can see it a an Appalachian country ballad set to music. The St Wunderkind was very good too,. She is such an authentic writer, very attuned to time and place.
freshman high school english: book three I don't remember enough about this, but it is weird as fuck, and Carson McCullers is a gay icon. Imagine writing such fantastically obvious gay subtext in like, 1950.
(3.5) While reading McCullers, you feel an underlying sadness towards her characters.
Whether it be their heartache and trying to find ways to cope with what life has given them or their random birth into a low class of society that has kept them in a state of ignorant bliss, you find that the characters speak to the reader, but not in an overwhelming way.
So many parts equal a glorious whole for the reader if not for Miss Amelia.The descriptions of the café and the changes wrought on the town and its inhabitants are exciting to read, so full of life.But the pride that the café brought to this town had an effect on almost everyone, even the children.
They washed before coming to Miss Amelia's, and scraped their feet very politely on the threshold as they entered the café.
(p 54)But of course this is more than the tale of a town and a café and Miss Amelia.
Poignant short story of repressed feelings, mystery and missed opportunity in a small impoverished southern community, concerning Miss Amelia, cousin Lymon the hunchback, and Marvin Macy. It also contains several even shorter stories in the book, several with an overtly musical theme - like the title of this volume, much of her other work and indeed her life. In particular, Wunderkind probably echoes her thwarted plans to study at the Juliard (she lost the fees on the subway, so took a creative writing course instead!).
Marvin left town for a life of crime, and landed in the penitentiary.A hunchback dwarf, Lymon Willis, comes to the store professing to be Miss Amelia's cousin.
There are a wonderful pages in the book, too long to quote here, about the relationship between the beloved and the loved.The book also contained six short stories about love:"Wunderkind" is about a promising young pianist who loses her emotional feel for the music.
McCullers writes about the "immense complexity of love" in this story."A Tree, A Rock, A Cloud" shows a drunk man telling a paperboy about the science of love.
Τον Μάρτιο του 2016 διάβασα για πρώτη φορά βιβλίο της Κάρσον ΜακΚάλερς, το πολύ καλό και ιδιαίτερο "Ανταύγειες σε χρυσό μάτι".
Τελικά τα βρήκα λίγο καιρό μετά και είπα αυτές τις μέρες να πιάσω το δεύτερο, θέλοντας να διαβάσω κάτι που ανήκει στο υπέροχο είδος του Southern Gothic.
Η Κάρσον ΜακΚάλερς έχει αυτό το κάτι στον τρόπο γραφής και σκέψης της, που αγγίζει κάποιες ευαίσθητες χορδές, σίγουρα είναι αρκετά ιδιαίτερη και μοναδική, αν μη τι άλλο.
Η νουβέλα αυτή μεταφράστηκε από τον Μένη Κουμανταρέα, ο οποίος έδωσε τις δικές του πινελιές στο όλο κείμενο.
Beautiful, beautiful book.
This was my second approach to McCullers's work, and I can say, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that I've become one of her admirers.
I'm the kind of reader that tends to put the characters and the human element above the story line and everything else, so I'm always amazed by authors who get it, and it's obvious that McCullers is one of them.
She understands loneliness.
She understands love.
She understands pain.
Ella entiende la soledad.
Entiende el amor.
Entiende el dolor.
This book is set in a southern miserable and dreary town .
She , now , obeys him and follows his rules , just like everyone else.I'm not even sure if the hunchback even existed or not !
It's all blurry and confusing & I'm left puzzled.
Carson McCullers was obviously a talented writer, and while I didn't love "The Ballad of Sad Cafe" with a capital "L"(personal preference kind of thing), I did enjoy the other short stories included.Recommend this to those who appreciate the "literary" genre. I haven't read a lot of Eudora Welty's work, but "The Ballad of Sad Cafe" reminded me of the one novella I did read by Welty, The Robber Bridegroom, in terms of story telling and overall quality of writing.
Difficile commentare questo libro com'è stato difficile leggerlo. Sfinita dal primo racconto lungo mi sono presa una pausa. Ho letto il secondo e il terzo senza il mood giusto ed avevo pensato di abbandonarlo. Poi un commento casuale mi ha spronato a portarlo avanti ed è stata la scelta giusta.Un libro di sconfitti, di mediocri e reietti. Solitudine e desolazione a vagonate. Una prosa asciutta eppure sfiancante e monotona. Però la malinconia e l'inquietudine che lascia in poche altre opere l'ho trovata.
Not sure how that works with the cogitation on love or with the narrative that follows.The narrator identifies Amelia, as proprietor, as “cause of all this” (22) in discussing the café, adopting the normal bourgeois mysticism of attributing causation of events to mere ownership of property involved therewith.
And despite the grossness, “the town laughed a long time over this grotesque affair” (33)—so, yeah, they’re all worthless Trump-voting types.When the husband returns after many years, and is considered “the cause of all this” (51), we likely can refer back to the prior misattribution of causation as a reference.
It is easy to imagine oneself on a porch in the summer evening listening to a storyteller with a rich melodious voice going on and on..., pointing down the road, moving the arms, looking up at the stars, wistfully sighing....Every word seems to come out of Carson McCuller's mouth personally, carefully, wickedly, lovingly, despairingly,wryly,....like a ballad.
There's nothing you can do to hold the pattern together; it unravels of its own energy, spinning across the tale...until there it is, only loose threads and memories.You are invited to listen to this tale, ...
I liked the eponymous novella and “A Domestic Dilemma”, other stories not so much, 3 stars is the overall rating for the collection.
This is a tale of a cafe that became a hot spot of socializing and good times.The cafe's rise and fall, how it's owner found a wandering hunchback and warmed to him strangely took him in and loved him for all his peculiarity.One antagonist a criminal, a jailed man has a history with this area and people and is soon to return and wreck havoc.This was a memorable story with characters that spring to life in the tale, outrageous and you cant help feeling sad for one character and the cafés demise.That one gem of a lady is no means a weak she is six foot two and can fight and when not fighting punches a punch bag many a time in her backyard.A ballad of a sad cafe this is indeed but told with a humorous twist in parts.
