https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/813350.This_Proud_Heart
Pearl Buck delivers with this book, especially in the ending which brings the whole thing full term.
I found out that David Barnes, the name of the sculptor in the book who mentors Susan Gaylord, was the pen name with which she submitted her master's thesis at Cornell.
At that time, Pearl Buck afraid that if she submitted her thesis as a woman, it would automatically be graded down?
It is still hard to juggle family, passion, responsibilities; it's hard to fit in, to figure out when to have children during our careers - all themes which she explores brilliantly in the book.
The book doesn't brood about Susan's difficulties to fit in a simple society as a prodigious child, choosing instead to build her character line by line.
Proud Heart uses events to build its characters.
Susan is discovered by a famous sculptor, David Barnes who keeps persuading her to come to Paris but she keeps dallying.
Buck only mentions that Susan marries at 20, has been married for four years at a point, John is six and in Paris when he starts school, but no more than that.
"Mais le bonheur d'une vie compte et on ne l'obtient qu'en sachant ce qu'on veut faire et si on en est capables."J'ai toujours appréhendé ce livre t je ne sais toujours pas pourquoi...
Ce n'est qu'au cours du 2015 reading challenge "a book that your mum loves" que j'ai enfin décidé de le lire et pour être honnête, je ne le regrette pas..


On the one hand, I felt as though this story was told in an honest way, showing character flaws and all.
For the most part, the women in this book are strong, cold, like the marble carved by the protagonist.
And yet...there is a powerful message that flows throughout this book, a message that says in actions, be true to yourself and your dreams.
I didn't always agree with the protagonist's actions Sometimes she seemed a little too perfect, a Martha Stewart type.
No, this is story about a woman being true to the way she was created.
Not a book for everyone. I stumbled onto it while reading through all of Buck's works. It starts out a little bland, but as an entity...it became the story of my life. It's character made choices for the same reasons as I had and it provided insight that I was not alone.
I really enjoyed this book, as I found that the main theme resonated with me deeply - women continued to be judged for wanting to both have fulfillment from a professional career and be a mother (though admittedly it was less common during the era that the novel is set). Aside from the judgment, the protagonist struggles with the guilt and self-doubt that she is making the right decisions for both her and her family. Recommended.
UnusualThis Proud Heart is unlike many of Buck's novels. The character are European, not Asian. The characters are rich and interesting. But the plot seems heavy, labored; as if Buck is trying to know them in greater depth than one usually discerns. Because it is unique, I recommend it to other lovers of Buck's work. But if you do not know her other works, I suggest one read The Good Earth as well.
The book started out slow but then I totally got into it and it got a little personal and made me think about my life and the choices I've made to get where I am today. And what if I'd done something different? I'm happy to be where I am by the way. It is a detailed story of a strong woman, making choices for herself along the way.
It was a little strange but I persevered and finally got through it. An interesting story overall but still rather odd.
Solid read about an independent woman during the 50's who wants to have it all and searches for what's right for her amidst the people who come in and out of her life.
Link alla video recensione❤: https://youtu.be/jzU9qgxDQu4
Link alla video recensione❤️: https://youtu.be/jzU9qgxDQu4
Hubo situaciones que no me esperaba, como mencione más arriba la sinopsis que viene en la edición que tengo no es la misma de ésta reseña, así que la situación de los dos matrimonios fue algo que no esperaba, pero tampoco voy a contar el porque de dos matrimonios :D El final me pareció un poco injusto pero considero que para la forma de ser de Susan era algo predecible, quería tener éxito en su matrimonio y en ser una artista reconocida, pero sin duda no logra juntar ambas cosas para salir adelante y de ahí se da todas las situaciones complicadas, agradables e inesperadas en la historia.
Sue, the main character, lived her life at a breakneck pace with plans to have and do everything, and the book certainly reflected that almost manic storyline.
Sue made me remember all the things I've ever wanted to do with my life and ponder if having kids really was a "waste"as people kept telling her.
This wasn't a feeling I particularly enjoyed having, so it will be nice to get back to my real life and remember the conscious decisions I have made to get to this point.
Voglio fare un sacco di belle cose nel bronzo e nella pietra, cose che dureranno in eterno.
Oh, al di là del matrimonio, per altre vie, com'è chiaro, perché Susan non ha alcuna intenzione di fermarsi.
Non esiteremmo a chiamarli capricci, tracce di volubilità o addirittura di leggerezza, in parte anche di stupore, che son tipiche del trovarsi di fronte a un indomabile sé; tanto più che questa vivace giovane donna può dirsi intenta a divenire operosa in più modi, e con tutta se stessa.
Quel che apparirebbe soprattutto ingenuo sarebbe pensare di conseguire quel tutto in un modo invero assai semplice.
The main character's perfectionism and art talent separate her from those surrounding her early on, while her sex separates her from other artists later in her story.
I definitely wanted to shake her severely a few times (as well as the men surrounding her), especially when denying her talents to her first husband and acquiescing to the degradation of her as an artist and individual person by her second husband.
It's a testament to Buck's talent that in the end I think I was satisfied as the main character was satisfied with herself as she was.
Reading a great story, tremendously written, is such a wonderful experience. This was such a book. Pearl Buck spoke for a generation of women emerging from traditional roles and finding themselves while still loving their lives with their families. I would have given it 5 stars if the story had felt more complete. The book ended abruptly with too many unanswered questions. But it was still terrific. I read it in 3 days.
I honestly had no idea that this novel was written nearly a century ago and knew nothing about the author! It was about halfway through the book that I decided to look it up, thinking that Ms. Buck must have done quite a bit of research...only to discover that it WAS her time period. The writing flows and screams early 1900's (I guess it helps when it's "present day" for the author) and the story was enjoyable and moving! Wonderful author and story!
I had high hopes for this book.
I love reading Pearl Buck and the topic of an independent woman trying to find fulfillment outside of the "conventional", womanly channels of the late 1930's was compelling.
However this novel was a bit too repetitive for me...both in words and actions.
The book demonstrates the evolution of Susan the artist, from Her salt of the earth upbringing.
I thought at times this story may take a "Mildred Pierce' turn with Susan's daughter and her second husband Blake.
I am glad I read the book but I did not find it met my hopes.
The pre-WWII era hemmed women into one category or another--homemaker or professional or old-maid or other. And girls edged into the old-maid category long before Now, in the 21st century, most women have grown up in an era of equal opportunity and believe they will always be free to pursue their chosen path.I believe the struggles of protagonist Susan Gaylord are the same for today's young women who make impetuous life choices which have opposite long-term effects than were expected. I recommend this book as a coming-of-age read for YA females.
The story follows a sculptor and mother in a rural community in the Northeast US.It is a nice exploration of what we can share in a relationship and what remains unshared. Asks the question how completely can we give ourselves to a relationship and what do we lose when the relationship does not encompass all we are.Interesting throughout, I had a lot to think about. However, it was really only at the end of the book that its emotional power was fully evident. Built slowly, but well worth reading in the end.
When your heart and soul want different things, can you ever have it all?
Susan knows she can, and with an ever-growing strength of will, talent, and passion, she goes after her dreams of becoming a sculptor and a wife and a mother.
And she does it all with competence and a single-minded focus that both attracts and repels the people around her.
Because when you're a woman in the man's world of the 1930s, you really can be too good at things.
A struggle many talented, intelligent women face every day in a world still filled with stereotypes and double-standards.
Everything by Pearl S. Buck is worth reading, yet all she's really known for is The Good Earth, which is the first in a very depressing trilogy. This Proud Heart had a profound impact on me since I've worked as a free-lance artist for over 3 decades and was wading through a difficult marriage when I read this book. It reflected many of the internal truths I was discovering--Buck does that often.
Amazing story! Her statue of the family was so interesting, and so insightful. It makes me wonder if I could step back from myself, where would my focus be? Sometimes it's hard to tell, because we get so comsumed and distracted with everyday things, that it would be nice if we could just step back from ourselves and see us as we really are. And if we could, would we keep going on the path we're on?
I loved this book and couldn't put it down until she met Blake...then I didn't like it at as much. It deals with the struggles that women face balancing life and seems like it would have been written after the 1930's her writing just pulled me in. I like my books to have a happily ever after and I think Susan could have been happy with someone the way she was, she just picked the wrong men. Blake could never be a happily ever after. I loved her characters, they seemed so real to me.
I'm giving this three stars - there were passages that I really enjoyed, but overall I had to keep reminding myself that This Proud Heart was written in 1938… otherwise I getting to frustrated at the main character's whining. Ok. We get it. This book about a woman artist in a man's art world. There is something to say of Buck's prose… it is timeless. Years passed in the story without you realizing it.
Set in the US in the thirties, the story of a gifted sculptor who is female and must fight the stereotypes and preconceived notions of what a woman could accomplish artistically. Susan wanted it all, expected to perform her craft, be a wife and mother without trade offs. Reading of the way she carved out of marble and sculpted clay was the best part of the story. I can't imagine such a talent. The husbands were stiff and self-possessed, neither supportive of Susan's talent and focus.
It was difficult to read this book without finding the male characters in her life so deplorable. At times I found it to be a very long read about the protagonist's search for her true self. I did enjoy reading about her life as a talented sculptor. And I also enjoyed the author's tone which reminded me of Steinbeck's in The Pearl.
I am such a big fan of Pearl S. Buck's that I name her as my favorite author of all time. I love everything she ever wrote. This was an excellent one. Pearl makes writing seem so simple. She once said to an interviewer who asked how she went about writing her stories, "I just start at the beginning and write until I come to the end". I bet she did too. I need an outline and even then. Well.
