https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/682804.The_Killer_Angels
”This is a different kind of army. If you look at history you’ll see men fight for pay, or women, or some other kind of loot. They fight for land, or because a king makes them, or just because they like killing. But we’re here for something new. I don’t … this hasn’t happened much in the history of the world. We’re an army going out to set other men free.”Colonel Joshua Lawrence Chamberlain The position of all the troops on July 3rd, 1863. The last day of battle. You can see the famous fishhook
The next secret is that General Lee makes a decision and he moves, with guts, and he’s been up against a lot of sickly generals who don’t know how to make decisions, although some of them have guts but whose men don’t love them.”He is a different man than he was at the start of the war.
He was a huge loss to the Union side.Shaara also takes us into the minds of Union men like General John Buford who arrived at Gettysburg and realized the importance of deploying troops on the high ground against a superior Confederate force.
“Once Chamberlain had a speech memorized from Shakespeare and gave it proudly, the old man listening but not looking, and Chamberlain remembered it still. ‘What a piece of work is man…in action how like an angel!’ And the old man, grinning, had scratched his head and then said stiffly, ‘Well, boy, if he’s an angel, he’s a murderin’ angel.’”- Michael Shaara, The Killer AngelsWhen it was first published, Michael Shaara’s The Killer Angels landed with a thud. Even when it won the Pulitzer Prize for
According to Shaara’s son, Jeff (who can start a bank with the books he’s sold by aping his father’s distinctive techniques), The Killer Angels was initially greeted with skepticism due to its release at the tail end of the Vietnam War. Maybe, or maybe not.
The Killer Angels begins on the eve of the Civil War battle of Gettysburg, and takes us through each of the three bloody days as the Union and Confederacy clashed in the fields and hills around a small Pennsylvania crossroads village.
Michael Shaara's passion gave life to something unique and singularly extraordinary in this Pullitzer Prize winning novel. With high-charged, emotive prose, lush descriptions and fully-fleshed characters, he transforms the The Battle of Gettysburg, the bloodiest engagement of the Civil War, into a gorgeously rendered and deeply personal story populated by flawed, ordinary men caught in an extraordinary concatenation of circumstances by the machinations of Fate. Shaara’s reduction of this moment
With high-charged, emotive prose, lush descriptions and fully-fleshed characters, he transforms the The Battle of Gettysburg, the bloodiest engagement of the Civil War, into a gorgeously rendered and deeply personal story populated by flawed, ordinary men caught in an extraordinary concatenation of circumstances by the machinations of Fate.
Another moment of the novel that I found simply breath-stealing was the description of the battle of Little Round Top. A single regiment of Union soldiers (the 20th Maine), held off a superior force of confederate charges for well over an hour until they finally ran out of ammunition.
(Side note: I have a few colleagues I’d be totally fine pointing the business end of my bayonet at, but it’s unlikely that I would actually be able to eviscerate them if it came to that, though I’d happily pour salt in their coffee.)Shaara is not concerned with trying to explain the reasons for the Civil War, nor in making a case for whether those reasons were good ones or not; his goal is to capture the experience of the fight.
Joshua Chamberlain was a professor at Maine’s Bowdoin College when the war broke out, but he showed a knack for military command that eventually put him in charge of a regiment at the end of the Union line on a hill called Little Round Top. As the extreme left position of the Union forces, Chamberlain and his men had to hold back repeated efforts to flank them by Longstreet’s troops, and then they found themselves in the thick of the fighting again on the last day during Pickett’s Charge.Chamberlain would win the Congressional Medal of Honor for his actions at Gettysburg, and he would continue to serve with distinction for the rest of the war.
I doubt that I can do justice to this novel, so let me direct you to Matt's superb review: https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
All of the things people say about the Civil War---the idea of brothers fighting against brothers, the internal conflict and sense of near heresy of killing one's own countrymen, the ambivalence of Northerners to the people the slaves were even as they disagreed with the institution of slavery---Shaara illustrates clearly here.The book is peppered with lyrical, powerful passages, but two stand out for me as particularly moving.One is a speech Chamberlain gives to a group of would-be deserters handed over as prisoners to his brigade to try and convince a few of them to fight rather than just ride out the battle as prisoners."This is a different kind of army," Chamberlain explains.
Doctorow's 'The March', for example, about the military convoy and its swelling ranks of thieves, whores, and freed slaves following General Tecumseh Sherman's trail of destruction, is a great book, but it doesn't manage to convey the scope and complexity of battle with the grace Shaara does.
But it is 'The Killer Angels' that remains the masterpiece, perhaps the best war novel ever written.
The book violates a common perception of historical writing which says readers of war novels are more interested in the common soldiers' experiences rather than the generals who live in the lofty atmosphere of rear headquarters, moving armies around like chess pieces.
The action in both novels occurs through the experiences of the same characters used by Michael Shaara in "The Killer Angels."Though a novel, this book is a favorite among Civil War readers, on a level with the best non-fictional works.
“There's nothing so much like a god on earth as a General on a battlefield.” ― Michael Shaara, The Killer AngelsOne of my favorite historical fiction novels of ALL TIME.
Imagine my surprise when my kids are discussing the virtues of Team Chamberlain (smart, honorable, thoughtful, a natural leader) VS Team Longstreet (Brilliant, ahead of his time, brooding, quiet).The Civil War is one of those historical periods that is a bit anachronistic to me.
There are characters like Lee, Chamberlain, Pickett, Stuart, etc., who seem to belong in some Arthurian myth/melodrama next to Longstreet and Hancock who could easily have been cast in some post-apocalyptic Battle Royale.
The guy mentioned The Killer Angels and I immediately thought about how much I had liked it and about my stepdad.
He was the reason I read it, some twenty+ years ago now, this book that I am sure I would never have picked up on my own.
You should read it.” I remember thinking at least two things in that moment: A book about war?
But the second thing I thought about was my dad loving a book.
Now when I think about The Killer Angels, I think about my stepdad, and I am grateful.
I was assigned this many years ago in high school & still have my 1975 paperback edition, so I was surprised by Jeff Shaara's introduction talking about how unknown this book was, especially when it won a Pulitzer Prize.
It doesn't do the book any favors.Shaara's descriptions are great & he really gets inside the heads of the people, sometimes too much.
Knowing the war dragged on for almost 2 more years afterward makes this even worse, especially given how the battle ended & the casualties they took.- The heat was awful.
I've read the book twice, it is a very moving historical novel.The Killer Angels relates the thoughts and motivations of the leaders in the battle of Gettysburg, as well as details of the crucial actions across the battlefield over three days, as experienced by the leaders and soldiers.
But Pickett's charge on the third day, although it seemed to get very close to succeeding, in reality had little chance of success.I can see that some readers could feel that there is just too much psychological speculation in the book.
Normally when I hear a book won a major literary prize I run screaming in the opposite direction, but the topic has always interested me and the way the author dealt with the subject had me turning the pages like a novel.Being an Aussie, the American Civil war was just something I was taught at school, it had no real relevance.
I was a bit too weighted down to give this historical novel the completely objective read I felt it deserved.I never knew that being inside of Robert E.
I never knew I could alternate sides so quickly in my compassion: one moment cheering for the North to take it, the next minute, unexpectedly hoping the South would prevail.
During this read, I fell, simultaneously, in love with the North's Joshua Chamberlain and the South's James Longstreet, and realized, for the first time, how profoundly the Civil War damaged our nation's landmarks and natural beauty.
easily one of the best books i've ever read in my life. just completely floored me. i don't give a shit about history, war, america, the military... i don't care about any of this stuff. like, at all. but this book was amazing. i just cried the whole way through. for every single character. even the ones who lived. especially the ones who lived.this was like a Bleak House, A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, The Book of Ebenezer Le Page type situation. i forget books can be this good.
Just walking in the fields and woods where these battles took place is a rather striking feeling and whenever I read this book, I am immediately and fully reminded of that feeling.Obviously, you might enjoy this book more if you are a battlefield/history nerd, but even just the human element is quite gripping, especially when you consider how carefully Shaara researched the people and events of this place and time.Each day of the battle is brought to full life with detailed accounts of the army's movements and how different soldiers played key roles in each turn of events.
Though the battle scenes are stellar, it is the way Shaara touches everything else that makes this book special.
Then he climbed the ladder into the white cupola and sat listening to the rain, watching the light come.
The "boyish" faces, the "white" cupola, the dawning, the gentle rain.
And then, too soon....."the guns began." Each chapter presents the viewpoint of a Confederate or Union commanding officer which humanizes the participants, but more importantly, creates the stark contrast of war's inevitable dehumanization.
These viewpoints also present the tactics of warfare, and the process of decision making that are universal to all wars.
tuck the 1987 edition under the quilt and let it sleep thenreread this edition by now... |=_=|
An extremely well researched albeit fictional account of one the most bloody and deadly battles in American history. Its lessons are relevant and far reaching even today.
I wanted to really like this book in its entirety, but I got bogged down in the specific tactics of the battle of Gettysburg.
The Killer Angels was a very insightful, inspiring way to learn about the Civil War. I feel very blessed that there were men of strong convictions who fought horrific battles, who suffered terrible injuries and losses, who ended up keeping this country together.

Before the Battle Moved to my Writing: https://www.goodreads.com/story/show/... The Battle of Gettysburg; The Killer Angels The book is written in the voice of an all-knowing 3rd person narrator. There’s quite a bit of dialogue in the book, obviously mostly made up. Each chapter has a title naming one of the commanders involved in the battle. Within that chapter the battle is described referring to the commander’s role at a particular time and place. There are considerable imaginary thoughts of
The southerners, decimated by casualties, worn out, desperate with thirst (many had come into the battle with empty canteens, after marching and countermarching for several hours before the late afternoon attack) broke, threw down their arms, and were captured by the Maine boys, many of whom had empty guns.The Union flank held.Though not without a valiant charge by (because I’m writing this review in Minnesota)…(view spoiler)[the small 1st Minnesota Volunteer Regiment, which was ordered to attack a position where they would be outnumbered by 5 to 1, to buy “minutes of time with human lives.“ The regiment fully and instantly obeyed the order, and suffered 82% casualties.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Battle_...) (hide spoiler)]The chapters for the second day are:1.
I highly recommend it to anyone who wants a good read in historical fiction, who is interested in US history and, especially, the Civil War. Shaara does a good job of sketching the tenor of the times, the sentimentality and the conflicted feelings of the men.
It's a terrific book for high school students who might otherwise find the history aspect less than compelling.My Civil War buff friends criticize this book for several inaccuracies, but nitpickers & enthusiasts will always do that, and remember--it IS fiction, though well-researched and based on historical events.
I think Shaara does a wonderful job with Lee and Chamberlain especially...as characters.
This novel is a fictionalised account of the Battle of Gettysburg, considered by many as the turning point of the American Civil War. It is a very intimate account told through the eyes of the key participants, often moving and the battle scenes, though infrequent, are very vividly told.
I was surprised to learn that many of the military leaders involved actually bore little ill-will towards their counterparts, having fought together side-by-side in other wars and wished fervently in their hearts for the war to end.
However, as military men their sense of duty prevailed and they were forced to wage death and destruction on their own brethren.
I began by talking about the challenges to the reader in The Killer Angels: keeping the geographies and personalities clear, clarifying and grasping the perspectives of North and South, and the simple disadvantage of knowing how the battle comes out.
In the Civil War, 600 people died each day.
At the Battle of Gettysburg, the topic of this novel, the 26th Regiment of North Carolina lost 714 of 800 men, 584 on the first day of fighting.
General Longstreet sees him arrive early on the morning of the terrible third day of battle:Lee came out of the mists.
After the re-read I see an equally powerful theme as the story of how the Confederate Army lost the battle (and the war) due to the chivalrous ideals of its general and a smaller but important theme as the conflicting reasons for fighting.Lee disdained defensive warfare (i.e. digging trenches was unsoldierly).
Colonel Chamberlain of the Maine Volunteers sees the vast country open for free men, no kings, queens or aristocracy.
It is gripping, thought provoking and remains a must read for both Civil War buffs and serious historians.Many years after leaving Gettysburg (and not long ago), I learned that Pickett’s Charge, where two white armies fought over slavery, took place on the land owned by a free Black man.
The novel is set out in chapters from alternating viewpoints, and it works, but it takes time to get into the stride.The text is divided in four parts, each one dealing with a specific day from June 29th to July 3rd 1863.
It is thrilling, harrowing, and immediate writing.“The Killer Angels” is a book for people interested in historical fiction, and especially the Civil War. I am not sure that it you don’t already have an interest in those things that this novel would spark it.
Gritty Civil War battle.
Okay, here I go with a second reading twenty years after tackling it for the first time during the 130th anniversary of the battle back in 1993; the Sesquicentennial of Gettysburg is here folks.Pickett's Charge Video #1Pickett's Charge Video #2THE REVIEW: While not a novel for everyone, this  is  the quintessential work of historical fiction about the Battle of Gettysburg. I first read it when the motion picture Gettysburg was released. Since then I've matured and become a parent so my appreciat
However, there are two key points I'd like to make.#1:I'll argue that the pivotal military events in our history that ultimately would lead to victory and define what the United States has become today are as follows: Washington's Retreat from Brooklyn and Manhattan, NY (1776)The Siege of Yorktown (1781): The Battle of Gettysburg (1863):The Battle of Midway (1942):D-Day in Normandy (1944):#2:Not everybody is gonna give this novel a 5/5-star rating.
However, I'm gonna make a bold statement: The Killer Angels is so paramount to the Battle of Gettysburg and what it means to America that, like the works of Mark Twain and James Fenimore Cooper, it will 
be in print 150 years from now and beyond for future generations.So if you enjoy American History...read this book.
