https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/794261.The_Portable_Poe
Read selections from this for my coursera SF/F class. And... it's made me like Poe even less, somehow. I just found his prose completely stultifying -- possibly partly because I've read most of these stories before (if not all), partly because of the period it was written, and part of it must be something to do with Poe's style specifically, because I don't find all work of that era equally boring.Whatever, I'm glad to have read Poe so I have that background knowledge, but emphasis on have read, past tense. I can't see myself voluntarily reading more of his work.
I'll admit, I skimmed over some of the essays and opinions. Also skipped a letter where he was obviously trying to get money out of a woman, lol. I listened to some of the stories on audio and I recommend these readers: Vincent Price (of course), Kerry Shale (for the Dupin stories) and the Public Domain Theater podcast (they have two of his stories so far).
*Just as a disclaimer, I read this for school, so I only read about a quarter of the book.*Pretty much whenever I liked I story in here, I loved it. But when I didn't like one, I was constantly blinking tears out of my eyes because of constant yawning.If you are interested in Poe's writings even a little bit, pick this up. It's packed to the brim with his stuff from all different kinds of genres: poetry, short stories, letters, etc. But even if you've never read Poe or aren't very interested... well, you're missing out!
The Portable edition of Poe has selected items of his: short stories, poems, letters, critical principles and observations.
This way you get a good look into each form and at the same time you get a good general idea of the person's work/thoughts/character.I've already read all Poe's short stories, some of them several times, since I own a collection of them all.
My all-time favourite is The Murders in the Rue Morgue but I got this edition for Raven, since I had previously read none of Poe's poems.
That's where you get to read about him from his own words.Now, the Critical Principles were all together a different story.
“The Tell-Tale Heart” is a story of murder and revenge, and madness, too.
“The Black Cat” is another tale of murder and revenge, again dealing with a conscience that will not be stilled.
“The Pit and the Pendulum” is another very familiar story, one of unrelenting terror; Poe uses language, especially broken phrases, to portray hysteria and unremitting tension, sustaining the mood for many pages.
Edgar Allan Poe was a depressive indolent drunk failure who married his 13-year-old cousin and spent his life composing purposefully obnoxious, repellant stories because "To be appreciated, you must be read," and he felt that the controversy would get him read.
Which was astute of him.
His Dupin stories are interesting if you're a Holmes fan, since Conan Doyle's debt to them is obvious, but they're nowhere near as good as the Holmes stories.
Fucking orangutans, man.
His horror is hit or miss.
Man, like all his stories are about that.
Don’t Believe Everything You Are ToldEdgar Allan Poe’s The Black Cat and The Tell Tale Heart are both told from the point of view of narrators who are, because of their insanity, unreliable .
Again this dreadful lack of conscience increases both our terror and lack of confidence in the reciters of these terrible stories.They both give self-serving accounts of the murders they commit as if it were the most logical and rational thing in the world to do.
This is a collection of work by Edgar Allan Poe, including letters, stories, poems, criticism and opinions.
There is a recurring theme of death and loss which grows wearing after a while and when you do encounter something with no mention of it, it's a breath of fresh air.Poe was possibly the first writer to write a detective story, with his creation C.
In saying that, the Dupin stories themselves aren't hugely gripping and are more interesting to see the form of the detective story developing than anything else.I'd never read any Poe before so this was a good selection of his work, but I don't think I'll particularly be looking out for any more, to be honest.
When you meet somebody for the first time and spend a while getting to know them, the first words don't often encompass a comprehensive personal history followed promptly with an intrusive background check (well, not for me anyway).
The letters could have been left out entirely, but if you must read them, save them for last, otherwise you will see the man they depict in everything which follows, and only that man.
There is more to Poe than the events of his personal life, and I had to battle with the imprints left on me in the beginning in order to see that.
“The Raven” is the first poem I fell in love with in English (I'm not a native speaker).
I was the right age, a brooding teenager, when I found a volume of poems for some long-forgotten class on the early 20th century.
He was going to throw the books away, but I thumbed through a few and decided to salvage them.I remember standing there in front of his garage, reading “The Raven” and feeling my brooding teenager soul, lately fed on J.R.R. Tolkien, Victor Hugo, Alexandre Dumas and Charles Dickens, gasp with delight.
I read The Pit and the Pendulum, The Fall of the House of Usher, and The Purloined Letter for my book club.
I also opted to read The Tell-Tale Heart and The Cask of Amontillado and some of the poems I remembered from high school - The Raven, To Helen, Annabel Lee, and The Bells.
The stories were good, although it took some getting used to the language.
I enjoyed The Purloined Letter best - the others, while good, were pretty morbid.
I actually enjoyed the poems better than the short stories - the rhyming and rhythm along with word choice were very carefully selected.
This, again, is a reread for the Cousera Fantasy and Science Fiction MOOC. I enjoyed this reading, even though somewhat rushed, a bit deeper than other times I read it, specially The Raven which I have not only read but listened and watched Vincent Price deliver. Poe is a master of bringing settings to life with a few chosen words, specially horror and Gothic scenery which makes me wonder why I feel so connected to it.
Una extraordinaria colección de gran parte de la obra de Poe, sus cuentos, historias cortas, poemas, dedicatorias y demás, una obra importante para la literatura romántica y gótica, muy recomendable en particular las historias The Facts in the case of M Valdemar, The Fall or the House of Usher, The Black Cat, The Tell-Tale Heart, The Oval Portrait, The Raven, The Bell, Anabel Lee, Leonor among others.
Poe's literature, especially his short stories, are much more complex than I remember them being when I read them in high school. I'm glad that I read these again, especially when I understood Poe's point of view in the context of a backlash towards the Enlightenment and the thought that 'rationality' and 'logic' are not everything. A great American gothic author and this volume has most of his best works.
This was suggested reading for 'Fantasy and Science Fiction' course at Coursera. Stories-1) "The Fall of the House of Usher," 2) "The Tell-Tale Heart," 3) "The Black Cat," 4) "The Oval Portrait," 5) "The Facts in the Case of M. Valdemar," Poems-1) "The Bells," 2) "The Raven," 3) "Annabel Lee."
I enjoyed some of the stories a lot more than others, but it's not difficult to appreciate the beauty in Poe's writing style. His use of language is clever and considered, and often brilliant. I was surprised that the gothic and morbid elements are quite so prominent throughout. 'The Tell-Tale Heart' is now firmly in my top ten favourite short stories.
great stuff - of course, the fiction overlapped with the "tales" i read earlier this year, but the letters, poems, criticism, etc., are all worth experiencing. you can't help but walk away from a volume like this marveling at poe's incredible imagination, and wondering at his incredible bad luck. and then worrying if those two things go hand in hand.
Poe's stories aren't quite as terrifying as they were when I was a child, but they are still grisly and otherworldly enough to give me the chills. He is the master of terror and suspense for good reason! And his poems are hauntingly beautiful enough to be unforgettable.
(Semi-audio.) People are depressed. Gross things happen. Gothic homes. Drunk guy murders cat, just BECUZ. The end. Warning to all the good people of the internet: do not listen to the cat story while eating dinner, it will really ruin your appetite.
Read for Coursera, Fantasy and Science Fiction. I found that reading the stories out loud helped me to follow the long, long, long sentences that Poe is so fond of. I loved the poems!
I registered a book at BookCrossing.com!http://www.BookCrossing.com/journal/10373249
Bust out the galvanic batteries, boys. We’re gonna out-Herod Herod.
A lot of fun reading all the different types of stories and about the history of Poe himself. The dude lived pretty fast and loose and was surrounded by heartbreak since he was 2.
Edgar Allen is a genius. He's the intellectuals horror psychedelic!
Several of his stories, including "William Wilson" and "The System of Doctor Tarr and Professor Fether," reflect Poe's anxiety about popular rule.
The uncouth Ethelrod, it is implied, has slain the aristocratic sister.Tellingly, "The Fall of the House of Usher" was published in 1839, two years after the presidency of the populist military general Andrew Jackson, whom Poe despised.
In a modern twist, "Taken-Over House," a story by the Argentine writer Julio Cortázar that seems inspired by Poe, is widely seen as an allegory for the 1946 takeover of Argentina by the populist military general Juan Perón.
Throughout the short-story, the house mirrors the condition of its inhabitants – Roderick and Madeline Usher.
The house is dilapidated and on the verge of collapse, much like the inhabitants of the house who become afflicted with a serious physical condition (in the case of Madeline Usher) and a psychological impairment (as is in the case of Roderick Usher).
Once the lives of the two Ushers are extinguished the house in turn looses its life-force and crumbles.The second way of looking at the house would be as a metaphor.
We know him from such classics like the Telltale Heart, Cask of Amontillado, the Fall of the House of Usher, the Black Cat, but there wasn't a dull story in here -- from horror to suspense to mystery to crime, Poe captures the dark side of man, the death of beauty, and the political turmoil of the decades leading up to the Civil War. Though reading every letter and every criticism and observation is probably unnecessary, it is worthwhile in understanding where Poe came from, from his desperation in poverty and his struggle with drinking, to his ambition to start his own literary magazine.
You don't have to read this whole book to understand Poe, but it is rewarding to learn about such a prominent writer in American history.
Like the handyman in my apartment building once said about our water, "Sometimes it's hot, sometimes it's not." That's a good way to describe Poe ranging from the awesome to the unreadable.Noticed: Every time a beautiful woman is introduced, you wonder, "How many pages till she's wasted away/dead?" The answer is usually two.Liked: Good descriptions ("I was never made aware of her entrance into my closed study save by the dear music of her low sweet voice, as she placed her marble hand upon my shoulder.") The stories, The System Of Doctor Tarr And Professor Fether, The Black Cat, The Oval Portrait, The Tell-Tale Heart, Hop-Frog, The Pit And The Pendulum and Eleonora.Didn't like: His short stories that begin with overstuffed preambles.
What can I say about Poe that hasnt been said before ?
Nothing quite frankly, the mans tales of horror terrify me, I read and reread them over and over and I never tire of them, they always send that shiver down my spine, I will never grow tired of the Cask of Amontillado, the Black Cat, the Tell Tale Heart, and Ligeia.
He scared the wits out of me with the black cat as a 12 year old and he scares the wits out of me still
For some reason I'd never read any Poe before, except The Raven.
Interesting to see someone doing something different, and inventing a whole new genre (the detective story), but altogether too much death and morbidness for me.
I have to say also that the editor really didn't do it justice - I'm sure he thought arranging things by themes was a great idea, but I didn't.
A chronological arrangement would have made more sense.
Stupid things, like having a description of how he wrote The Raven, before actually printing the poem.
And a whole section on stories about death - that was just too much.
