https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1022568.The_Garden_of_the_Gods
This is the third and the last of Gerald Durrell's Corfu Trilogy.
I think it is best to read them in order.
When you pick up this book you will already know who everyone is.
When you pick up the second and the third book it is like meeting old friends.
All the books are both funny and lovely, a spot of sun in the darkness.
Listen to this; do not read the paper book.
I honestly think the narration improves the funny lines.
Go to the delightful island of Corfu and visit the Durrell family.
Read the whole series.
Book 3 is more of the same: hilarious and wonderful stories about the Durrell's live in Greece. I think this one was even funnier than the last two. If there were more of these I'd read them! Most of the funny bits have to do with Gerry and his animals doing crazy things - for instance: "The lamb seemed disappointed that no one was taking any notice of him; he had gambolled a little, decorated the floor, and done two nicely executed pirouettes, but he felt that no one was paying him the attentio

Last of the Corfu trilogy. I remember the day when I found it in the bookshop for the first time. I hugged it like a long lost friend, instantly carried it home. Read it the same day smiling and laughing all the time. I just finished it again, I read it whenever feeling blue, we have the most frightfully cold and wet weather at the moment. It was a perfect remedy. Full of sunshine and innocence of childhood, mixed with quite astute albeit slightly unkind comments about older siblings (which as the youngest in the family I can relate to)
The end of the trilogy was one of my worst days in reading ever.
Once being let in the magical and almost surreal world of Durrel's Corfu adventures, you can't seem to let go for long.
Not to count all the times when I only search through my favorite places, but end up reading straight through.
Durrel's world is like an improved Eden before being chased away - so light, so innocent, so sunny and yet so real, full of good-natured laughter and knowledge that seeps through your mind almost effortlessly.
It's the ultimate point for geeky romantics - a wonderful place to get lost.
This is the finish to the trilogy of books Durrell wrote about growing up on Corfu. I love all three books for their combination of family memoir and natural history. Durrell writes well and these books are very funny so beware of reading them on public transportation!These books delighted me as a middle-school aged kid when I read them before and they are just as delightful now as I aspire to adulthood. Some day I will at least visit Corfu, but my true fantasy is to find a strawberry pink villa there in which to retire in splendor.
The final instalment of Durrell's trilogy of stories of an idyllic, if slightly wild, childhood on Corfu in the 1930s.
Like the other books covers exactly the same period, just a different set of stories and some new characters.
Well written, but I think the weakest of the three trilogy and the shortest.
You sense he was running out of steam, and the remaining stories are not quite as good as some of the earlier ones.
If you read this book alone I think the characters will come across as rather 2 dimensional.
Nevertheless, a nice gentle read - good holiday fodder.
I had a hard time finding this book to purchase, but finally got an almost forty year old paperback from England in remarkably good condition for very little money (about $7.00 including shipping).Again, I was delighted with Durrell's writing.
Toward the end of the book there is an episode in Chapter 7 involving Durrell's sister, Margo, which I could have done without.
In the first two books, Durrell described his sister as somewhat dingy and self-involved.
The temptation to write about his unconventional, wacky family was simply too great for Durrell to resist, leaving us with these hilarious gems.
Със съжаление приключих с прочитането на трилогията. Благодарна съм на Джералд Даръл за щедрите порции смях и прекрасните спомени от гостоприемната слънчева Гърция, както и за уникалния начин, по който пресъздава погледа на едно десетгодишно дете към света и природата. Навремето като малка явно не съм можела да оценя достатъчно майка му, но сега съм дълбоко впечатлена от аристократичното спокойствие, с което посреща всички семейни катаклизми, и подкрепата, която винаги е оказвала на децата си.
Durrell mantiene el tipo en su conclusión de la "Trilogia de Corfu", con nuevas, delirantes, y divertidas historias protagonizadas por la familia del escritor en la isla griega.
The Durrells were an amazing family. Gerry,the author of so many wonderful books, gives a delightful look into his family's lives in Corfu after moving from England. His prose is lush, giving me a feeling as if I also lived there, felt the sun on my face, swam in the ocean near their villa, saw all the animal and insect life he described, and ate some of the wonderful foods his mother cooked. The PBS series is very close to these books.
I loved the way he gives the animals and insects personalities.
This is the final part of the "Corfu trilogy." The full review will be posted in the single volume os this trilogy which was kindly sent by my dear friend Themis-Atena.
Qué penita acabar la trilogía. Leeré más libros de este autor con la esperanza de volver a encontrarme con su divertidísima familia :D
This is the third volume of the authors trilogy about his life in Corfu in the 30s immediately prior to the Second World War.Gerard Durrell has a unique gift for writing hilarious prose. He is particularly humorous when describing the heterogeneous members of his family, who are continually arguing and quarrelling amongst themselves.The head of the household is Mother, whose main characteristic is her placatory nature (Oh, Im sure he didnt mean it, Larry!). Otherwise she is constantly occupied w
Later Larry becomes a famous author, whose works include the illustrious “Alexandria Quartet”.Leslie, on the other hand, is by no means intellectual, but a ballistics expert; he is obsessed with guns and hunting, and has other practical talents.Margo, the only girl, is generally preoccupied with her latest romantic predilection.
Gerald Durrell has an exceptional literary talent, not to mention his exquisite talents as a humorist; moreover, his observations of natural history are fascinating, even to a reader like me who is not normally particularly interested in such matters.
A lovely conclusion to the trilogy. And the visit of the King of Greece had me in stitches.
An artist of words, Gerald Durrell reconstructs distant memories of his golden childhood on Corfu with evocative and humorous caricatures of people, places and events, brilliantly described in glorious technicolor.
Just read the first paragraph of the book - simply wonderful.
Made me wonder what Gerald Durrell could have achieved had he turned to 'serious' writing.
I loved this book - the third in his series of 'family' books from Corfu - when I first read it as a child, and appreciate it just as much now.
Delightful book - one of his best.
Another diverting read from Gerald Durrell. I got a bit tired of Captain Creech (I don't know how Mrs.Durrell put up with him), but the stories are entertaining and the descriptions of animals are again meticulous and skillful.
I kept having such laughter fits that my dog woke up and came to me with a worried look on its face.
It's a vey nice book. I enjoyed it. It's not as goood as the "My family and other animals" but it has very funny and interesting stories.
What I loved about it:It feels so good to be in Corfu again!We meet many new characters (including the charming Jeejee) and life in Corfu is fleshed out a bit as we venture into town and interact more with the locals.We learn more about Mother and her background, which is fabulous, because she is probably my favorite character of the whole series and I find her utterly fascinating.
I just wasn't expecting to turn the page and see that word, which, as a person living in 2017, makes me cringe.
Fauna and Family, also known as The Garden of the Gods, is the third in Durrell’s Corfu trilogy, and it became a show on Masterpiece Theater.
I read the third book without having read the first two and I think it can be read it on its own, but I wish I had known these characters all along.
The family consists of three brothers, one sister and their mother.
The accept guests into their home in Corfu and these characters are, well, characters to love and laugh at.
I’m a fan of Gerald Durell so I forgive him for the sweeping generalization of, "like so many Americans, they were possessed of a charming naiveté and earnestness,” depicted through two flamboyant nitwits of whom Leslie played one trick after another.
I’m saving the middle book for my escape from next year’s cold winter.
I love the characters, as they are a perfect depiction of so many Greeks I’ve dealt with while in Greece.
I think this might be something that those in love with Greece and specifically Corfu and her sister-mainland, would find especially entertaining to read.
Határozottan az a véleményem, hogy ezek a történetek kimeríthetetlen forrásai a vidám, de legalábbis mosolygós pillanatoknak. Minden családban vannak olyan történetek, amik utólag visszagondolva roppant viccesek (mert azt be kell látni, hogy az adott pillanatban nem mindig értékeljük a dolgok pikantériáját) de mégis jobb, ha mások ballépéseiről olvasunk, ugyebár. Azért sokszor irigyeltem azt a világot Gerry-től, a szigetet, az állatok seregletét, a szokatlanabbnál szokatlanabb helyzeteket. Nem mellesleg emelem kalapom az édesanyja előtt, hogy bírta idegekkel és energiával a családot. :D
I laughed so hard reading this--ON THE BUS--that the lady sitting next to me asked what I was reading.
Then she recommended the PBS series they made from it.
It's that kind of book.If you are looking for a story about the cutest town in the world, a family that is constantly finding their way into ridiculous situations, and what happens when one boy is given free clearance to explore his interests in zoology to their full, this is the story for you.
If you're just looking for a book that will make you feel good about the world again, this is REALLY for you.
В сімейство Даррелів не можливо не закохатися :)
One-third of the Corfu Trilogy. Very funny!
I really enjoyed it! There weren't quite as many laugh out loud moments as the first two, but overall it felt exactly like coming home to sink into the joys of Corfu for a few hours and enjoy the Durrell family.
I appreciated the author's love of animals but did not appreciate the siblings' rude behavior and cruel pranks. They were especially inconsiderate of their mother. I found no humor in this book.
No diminishing of pleasure in these continued anecdotes from Corfu. I want to be a ten-year-old boy collecting animals, learning from Theodore and Kralefsky, befriending the locals and observing my crazy family. Read all of these books.
I was a little upset when I finished the third book of the trilogy because Gerald Durrell was only still a thirteen year old at the time yet he was still looking for anything that was an animal or insect or bird or human. Still his anecdotes of the family was amusing. I can't imagine living on an island like Corfu and having the type of life they had with different people coming and going constantly as the only entertainment. I would recommend this trilogy for everyone's pleasure to read.
