https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/721867.Wise_Children
Ms. Flirtworthy, I PresumeAt just under 240 pages, this isn't a long or difficult book, but it is hugely enjoyable and rewarding at multiple levels.At one level, you can read it as a first person narration of a 75 year old woman (Dora Chance) that is hilarious, vulgar, witty and dynamic.It's like sitting Mae West in front of a microphone and plying her with alcohol.
we turned heads." The trouble is, "This night of all nights I wanted to look like myself, whoever that was."There are even similarities among those who are not twins, the same circumstances and actions recurring: romances arising from productions of King Lear, consensual incest (actual, presumed (but not certain, where paternity is not definite), and fictional (Lear and Cordelia, a pantomime goose and its gosling!)), and "to die for love runs in the family" - as does being long-lived (another contrast/contradiction).Legitimacy and illegitimacy is another aspect, both in the literal sense of people's parentage, but also in terms of "proper" theatre versus lower forms of entertainment.
Foul mouthed, gin infused and outrageously libertine, Dora Chance on her 75 year birthday recounts the tumultous history of the family, starting with their grandparents and going through several pair of twins in each Hazard generation.
Coming back to the twins in the family and the best Shakespearean tradition of mistaken identities, switching places and shady parenting, every Hazard / Chance generation recreates the dialectics of entertainment: tragedy and comedy, Carnegie Hall and Las Vegas, meditation and escapism, marriage and adultery, poetry and doggerel, chalk and cheese.
Before starting this, I’d started the second book—The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman— in the aforementioned volume and couldn’t get into that one at all; after only a few pages, I read Jan-Maat’s review and decided it likely isn’t for me at all.
I’ve been accused by certain family members (and I agree with them) of taking some things too seriously and of not enjoying ‘silly’, so take my rating with that in mind.
And despite my negativity, I agree with Cecily’s warm review.
Il giorno del loro settantacinquesimo compleanno le gemelle Nora e Dora ricevono per la prima volta l'invito alla festa del centesimo compleanno di Melchior Hazard,famoso attore Shakespiriano nonché padre delle ragazze.
La famiglia Hazard infatti sforna attori di fama mondiale da generazioni ma qualcosa sembra essere andato storto con le sue gemelle, figlie mai riconosciute dal padre, ballerine e attrici di seconda categoria.
Con una prosa irriverente e anticonvezionale Angela Carter ci racconta le vite sbandate e bizzarre delle gemelle attraverso una serie di flashback che ripercorrono le loro rocambolesche avventure alla continua ricerca di qualche lavoro nell'avanspettacolo per riuscire a sbarcare il lunario.
But Carter definitely makes this tale all her own, despite the echoes with other authors.Like the Shakespeare that permeates the novel, there are lots of twins, sudden changes in fortune, costumes, and a lot of uncertain parentage.
Dora Chance, Melchior’s illegitimate daughter and twin to Nora Chance, tells the tale and it unrolls like an article in a gossip rag.
The Lucky Chances, as the sisters are known, can only be considered lucky in comparison to others in the tale.
It’s the kind of book I want to read again for fun, but it also makes me want to go back to school, to read or reread all of Shakespeare (I am limiting myself to The Winter’s Tale for now), to go back and read some Bakhtin.This is a novel about the theater, about the romance of family (blood ties and created families alike), about fathers and daughters, about the “hypothesis” of fatherhood and the effects of its denial, about Shakespeare, about bastard children and lost heirs and endless sets of twins (I think there are five sets of twins, all told).
I have a viceral and romantic attraction to any story that could have a grinder organ soundtrack, the more sequins and greasepaint, the better!Dora Chance has that dirty old lady voice that I aspire to have when my seventy-fifth birthday rolls around (although anyone who hangs out with me over a few glasses of pinot noir might tell you I already sound exactly like that…).
Dora is telling us this story on her seventy-fifth birthday, which happens to be her father's hundreth's birthday.
But despite this flaw, this lovely bittersweet book made me giggle and sigh, and what else can you ask from a dirty old lady?
“What a joy it is to dance and sing!” Twins Nora and Dora Chance turn 75 today; their father, Shakespearean actor Melchior Hazard, who has never publicly acknowledged them because they were born out of wedlock to a servant girl who died in childbirth, turns 100.
Dora’s voice is slang-filled and gossipy, and she dutifully presents the sisters’ past as the tragicomedy that it was.This was my fifth book by Carter, and now a joint favorite with The Bloody Chamber and Other Stories – but I liked the play that little bit better.
In telling the story of the Misses Dora and Leonora Chance, the "Chance Sisters" whose rhythmically clicking heels have lighted up many a music hall stage, Ms. Carter has not spared any expense, choosing to spread the paint in loud, garish brushstrokes.
For are they not the twin daughters (albeit born on the other side of the blanket) of the great Shakespearean actor Melchior Hazard?Dora tells the story-and does it in such a bawdy style reminiscent of the music hall that you get carried away.
The girls are bastards of the great Melchior, born during the first world war, abandoned by their mother and brought up by Grandma Chance and their father's twin brother Peregrine.

Trocas de paternidade (e de namorados); alguns incestos (leves); infidelidades e mais uma catadupa de loucuras, proporcionam uma leitura delirante do princípio ao fim.A escrita é, aparentemente, simples - sem pretensões de educar ou ensinar a viver - focada na acção e no comportamento das personagens, cuja caracterização tem expressões deliciosas, como esta sobre um homem que tem um "sorriso removedor-de-cuecas-de-senhora".Encontrar este livro foi uma tarefa difícil, mas desfrutei cada frase da sua leitura o que compensou todo o tempo que consumi na procura.
Allegro, frizzante, divertente, ma per niente frivolo o scontato. Leggerò sicuramente ancora questa autrice!
E pa baš sam uživala.Znate one besprizorne babe što vam pričaju svoje doživljaje iz mladosti a vi slušate i crvenite? E pa ovo je jedna takva, još bivša plesačica, još ima i bliznakinju od koje je ljudi razlikuju samo po parfemu, još vanbračna ćerka čuvenog glumca i na neki način hroničar njegove porodice. I sve je baš kao da vam jedna takva baba priča. Setno i smešno i puno ponosa i žaljenja i zabavno, a tu su naravno i šljokice i pozornice i užasni preokreti. Ima i morala, samo je baš dobro prikriven.
3.5 starsWise Children was one of those weird books where, when I was reading it I was enjoying it, but when I wasn’t, I didn’t really feel like picking it up.
She’s recounting their colourful life and that of their huge (and rather incestuous) family, and several parts had me giggling out loud!.I really enjoyed reading about all the scandal and drama of the crazy family, their affairs, their betrayals, their hopes and dreams.
I did mention incest, so be warned that that is a thing in this book.
Obviously all incest is bad, but I thought the last one was like, really bad.
Spassoso e brillante, mi ci voleva proprio.È una soap travestita da alto teatro?
È una pantomima messa in forma di romanzo?
Per quanto la famiglia (o la non-famiglia) delle due protagoniste sia un totale casino, e per quanto sia incredibile, anche solo per il numero di gemelli sfornati in serie senza mancare neanche un passaggio, questo passa in secondo piano nella prosa di Angela Carter, che svela una matassa ingarbugliatissima.
Nora e Dora, figlie illegittime, si muovono nelle ipocrisie del mondo paterno con carattere e bellezza, e si stagliano su tutta una schiera di parenti insignificanti, meschini, gretti, malgrado la loro legittimità.Da leggere.
Credo che lo spirito giusto per affrontare questo romanzo sia quello della più completa apertura e disponibilità nel lasciarsi trascinare ovunque Angela Carter voglia portarci, mettendo per un po' da parte tutte quelle belle questioni sulla morale, sulla veridicità di una storia, su regole di tempi e spazi, tutto.
Oppure si può accettare di mandar giù in un sorso il contenuto del bicchiere che prima o poi ci si troverà in mano, quasi fosse una medicina, e ci si può semplicemente lasciare andare, seguire l'onda, parlare con persone di cui non si conosce il nome, raccogliere storielle e confondere persone, fare figuracce e voltare le spalle, parlare troppo di sé e ascoltare racconti che non hanno probabilmente nessun fondo di verità, ma chissenefrega, va bene anche così.
I probably spent the longest time reading this book compared to all the other books I read due to the complexity and complicatedness of its plot and the unsettlingly eccentric cast of characters. What an experience! A clever book deploying magical realism and saturated with parodies that left me feeling accomplished and simultaneously dizzy upon reading it. I despised it so much but I loved it just as much, which was why I had to finish reading it.
Dora tells the story of her and her twin, Nora, unrecognized illegitimate daughters of the great Shakespearean actor, Melchior Hazard, from their birth at the beginning of the century, to Melchior’s hundredth birthday party, a narrative that progresses chronologically, but with jags and with hints and clues which remind us that we are dealing with that tricky stuff, living memory.Apart from referring to Shakespeare and his plays, Carter cleverly adds as much Shakespearean twists into her own story as she can: twins, a young woman drowned for love, a jealous husband who murders his wife, thankless daughters, questionable paternity, characters dressing up like each other, etc.
And, like a magic tent, it’s bigger on the inside that it seems on the outside.
I trust my sister's choice in books, but I was a little startled when I picked up this book that it was about the theatre.
I don't know why that should startle me, except that I scarred her once by exposing her to a bunch of actors, and she's seemed a little leery since.
At the remove of fiction, though, this was apparently right up her alley, and I'm pleased to say that it was exactly to my taste as well.Note: The rest of this review has been withheld due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement.
You can read why I came to this decision here.
In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
Took awhile to get into the writing style which was expectedand then it just clicked and flowed beautifully. Alot of it is kinda a flashback/history of the Chance twins and it's interesting, it's funny and there's alot of casual incest and illegitimacy of children. The story is probably it's weakest part but it does enough. The characters and the classic Carter banter is really what makes this (her last novel) so good.
Perry è, al pari di tutti i personaggi del romanzo, una persona bizzarra, amante della vita e dei piaceri che essa può riservare, inaffidabile sotto una molteplicità di aspetti, incostante, volubile, divertente, animato da uno spirito di eterno fanciullo che lo fa apparire piuttosto irresponsabile agli occhi dei più, ma allo stesso tempo dotato di quella enorme dose di bontà, di gentilezza e amore che lo porta a prendersi cura delle sue sfortunate nipoti fin dalla loro nascita e ad amarle come solo un padre saprebbe fare.
A hilarious tour-de-force spanning a century of the history of theatre and a family's life, told in a remarkably convincing voice. I could have done without the bonus incest; it didn't seem to serve any point.
Oh, icky, icky, icky. I literally fell asleep trying to read this. I cannot think of a more uninspiring narrator; she even made an anecdote about jism boring. The characters drink gin, dress up like old-timey movie stars, and have a scandalous story to tell about their births (twins). All of that adds up to a nap. How can one ever possibly make gin uninteresting, you ask? I'm not sure because I drank enough of it reading this crap to forget it all. But I trust my prior assessment.
Най-любимата ми от всички на Анджела Картър, които съм прочела досега. Сестрите Шанс са разкошни бабета! Нарочно си я четох по-бавно, удължавах удоволствието. Преводът на Ангел Игов определено е приятен, въпреки турцизмите и българските реалии в английска книга (като например “изпечена като гергьовско агне” и други подобни), но те са само на няколко места и затова бият на очи.
And, even if she rambles a bit and the plot proceeds sometimes in a kind of ad hoc order, we can easily assign these flaws to our narrator's age and the general vagaries of telling the stories of so many inter-related family members.Of the three Angela Carter novels that I've read, this is the only one that lives up to the savvy beauty of her short stories.
And I think it's the strength of the character and the theater setting that allows for Carter's pithy and showy style to stay fresh for 200+ pages.The themes are admirably developed; naturally, conversationally, and subtly as Dora the narrator chronicles three generations of Hazards and Chances.
Fantastic wild, funny, clever, bawdy writing. Angela Carter knows and loves Shakespeare and uses him to examine people and their plotting as well as the Bard does. One of my very favorite books of all time.
I read my first Angela Carter novel last year, The Magic Toyshop, reviewed here http://www.lovelytreez.com/?p=50 and it was such an enjoyable reading experience I fully intended to read Wise Children soon afterwards...well, better late than never and what a wondrous ride it was.Wise Children is narrated by Dora Chance, twin sister to Nora and illegitimate daughter of Melchior Hazard, the renowned Shakespearean actor.
I cannot begin to tell you how much I loved Dora, an old gel who likes to give the impression that she doesn't give a damn yet she takes in the invalid ex wife of Melchior who has been abandoned by her upper class twin daughters.
But the girls are drawn in and around his life due to their career in show business.Carter paints a picture of two sad, washed up old cranks sitting around living in the past ("At six we switch to gin.") and does a nice job capturing the name brands of designer things like perfume and clothing that are particularly obscure.
One can also imagine someone from our generation falling into this trap - sitting around an oxygen bar in 2055 as an octegenarian clutching an out-of-fashion Coach multi-colored patch purse and talking about how she used to party with all the hotties like Nicole Richie and Bai Ling.Poop on this story for the ending.

