https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/78989.Shall_We_Tell_the_President_
This was a disappointing ending to this series. I was expecting a lot more after Kane and Abel and then The Prodigal Daughter. Florentyna is practically non-existent in this book as the story focuses around an attempt to assassinate her and what the secret service is trying to do to stop it. The book itself was pretty good and I think that I would have enjoyed it a lot more if I hadn't been setup by the two previous books in the series. Overall a fun read though and I plan to read some more from Jeffrey Archer.
I really think I might have liked it had I read it in 1977 or something.
He got to first female president, but didn't quite think of the internet.
So the hero is just doing all his research at the library with a stack of quarters from a pay phone.
On an unrelated note, even if the technology had been updated, I just really got angry at the hero's passionate love for the heroine aka a possible accomplice of the assassin.
I wonder if it's annoying to me because it really is annoying or because in the post-2001 world nothing like that seems believable (just like pay phones).
Entertaining and suspenseful! However, it is not a serious political thriller. There are too many implausible events and unanswered questions. There is excitement and razor tension from the first page, but it loses that cutting edge to the point that the climax is anti-climactic. The denouement is flat as well. The characters are very well developed and it is disappointing that this marks the ending of a great series.
This started out as Jeffrey Archer's second published novel, quite a few years ago, but has now been updated for more current politics.
Try to find the original version, because it is vintage early Archer.
In the original version, the novel begins just after Ed Kennedy is sworn in as president after Jimmy Carter.
It was a rough time in American history, and Archer weaves the mood of the times into the story.
My only real complaint with the novel is its lack of major plot twists which I've come to expect from Archer's works.
If you enjoy Archer's works, try to locate a copy of this one too.
I bought this book on my kindle before I read the reviews on it.
From what I now understand it was changed and updated from the original version of the hardback that was published in the 1970's.
It has been a very long time since I read the first two books in this series "Kane and Abel" and "The Prodigal Daughter" but I was expecting this book to be more about the main character "the president" then it was.
Although I liked the book and it was a quick read for me I was hoping to enjoy it more than I did.
দুরদানত গতির কনসপিরেসী থরিলার। The day of the jackal এর পড়ে এই রকম একটা থরিলার বই পড়লাম,দারুন !
দুর্দান্ত গতির কন্সপিরেসী থ্রিলার। The day of the jackal এর পড়ে এই রকম একটা থ্রিলার বই পড়লাম,দারুন !
মাঝে কিছুদিন গযাপ পড়েছিল পড়ায়, টনিক হিসেবে এটা বেশ কাজে দিল।বেশ জমাট বাঁধা, গড়পরতা ভালোই লাগল।
মাঝে কিছুদিন গ্যাপ পড়েছিল পড়ায়, টনিক হিসেবে এটা বেশ কাজে দিল।বেশ জমাট বাঁধা, গড়পরতা ভালোই লাগল।
এভরেজের ওপরে খুব বেশি কিছু মনে হয়নি। ইউ.এস পরেসিডেনট কিংবা ফারসট ফযামিলির এগেইনসটে এর চেয়ে ভাল কনসপিরেসী থৃলার আছে বেশকিছু।
এভরেজের ওপরে খুব বেশি কিছু মনে হয়নি। ইউ.এস প্রেসিডেন্ট কিংবা ফার্স্ট ফ্যামিলির এগেইন্সটে এর চেয়ে ভাল কনস্পিরেসী থৃলার আছে বেশকিছু।
In its original version, Ted Kennedy was the fictional president.Then,Archer revised it to include a female president.This time,beyond the first few chapters it didn't hold my interest.
This is the final book of a trilogy.
In this one, there is a plan to kill the president because she supports a gun control bill.
The FBI race to discover who is behind the conspiracy to kill the president.This was a lousy way to finish this trilogy.
The only positive I can take away from this novel is it tackling the issue of gun control.
I liked the issue but it was not enough to deem this a worthy read.
It was false advertising and I recommend stopping after the second book of this trilogy.
This third novel in the Kane & Abel series is definitely not what I expected. Technically, it's about Florentyna Kane--a plot to kill her is afoot--but she's hardly in the story. This could have been a stand-alone novel in which bad guys plot to kill the POTUS. I can't help but wonder why Archer chose that to go in that direction.
This was written decades ago and can still compete with the more sophisticated books of the present.Marc Andrews is on his own to find out who wants the president dead.
Time is running out as he tries to eliminate the suspects.The suspense builds as the danger closes in on him.For conspiracy theorists, this is a book you will want to read.
You never know where the strike will come from.I still think of the Kennedy assassination and whether or not there was a government conspiracy that brought him down.
(2.5 / 5)I had read this book about 7 or 8 years back when I was in school, and I was so thrilled!
But after reading it again now I realize how wrong I was!
The criminals are hardly "professional" as oft mentioned in the book.
And after having recently read the amazing American Tabloid by James Ellroy, Shall We Tell the President pales in comparison.And I would also like to rant against the new edition that continues the story from The Prodigal Daughter.
I prefer the one that did not have Kane as the President.

This wasn’t my favourite Jeffrey Archer. I did enjoy it, but found it a bit hard to keep track of what was happening. This was possibly related to the fact that I was reading it in circumstances where I was somewhat distracted by scenery and other people, but I can think of other Archers that would require less concentration.I did still enjoy it - I just had to relax a bit more and not try to keep tabs on what was happening exactly and go with the flow!!
I bought the book after I read a review which claimed this to be far better than "Day of the Jackal" by Frederick Forsyth. Well... I was terribly disappointed. The book was not even close to "The Eleventh Commandment" by the same author. The hero finds time to date his girlfriend even though he has to foil an assassination plot to kill the American President in matter of few days!
Obožavam kako ovaj čovjek piše - izvrsni politički trileri!
Great read.love this story
A page-turner, truly!
Although the character of Florentyna Kane took a backseat and makes way for the FBI agent(s) who just keeps asking his boss "Shall We Tell the President?".
What secret they keep from the President or do they actually get to tell her, is something I read the book for and it did keep me glued to the very end in the most mesmerizing way.
It was such a thrilling story with so much going on in typical American way, on top of that Archer leaves no stone upturned in making it a superb love story as well.
I want to give it 3.5 stars! But I can only give a 3 or a 4 - so 4.Amazing read, but a little disappointing end. I mean, the mystery part could have been better, the action part couldn't have been better! I couldnt wait to get to the next page- it was that fast paced and exciting. Jeffrey Archer is one fine storyteller, and as with his other books, this too was something I thoroughly enjoyed. :)
I liked it. Though it was a supposed #3 of the series, it was written before Kane & Abel. I liked how he recycled his characters. I liked the fact that it was a part of a series and yet, not a conclusion. I liked that each book has its own focus. Jeffrey Archer has found his way into my list of favourite authors.
A top notch political thriller... Excellent ☺
A meh sort of book especially since its set in the Kane & Abel series! My Rating - 2/5
is a 1977 novel by English author Jeffrey Archer.
In the first edition, a plot to kill the President of the United States, Edward Kennedy, is foiled by a Federal Bureau of Investigation agent working with the head of the FBI.
After the success of Kane and Abel and The Prodigal Daughter, in the revised edition Archer replaced Kennedy with the fictional character of Florentyna Kane, and original Vice President Dale Bumpers with the real-life Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey.
My only real complaint is its lack of major plot twists which I've come to expect from Archer's novels.
At minimum, read Kane & Abel, it is super – an extremely popular 1980s book, made into a mini-series in 1985.The story is a familial-character driven tale, spanning decades.
Narrated by Jason Culp, about 20 hours of listening, release by Macmillon Audio.Book two, The Prodigal Daughter is the story of the descendants of William and Abel, Richard Kane and Florentyna Rosnovski.
The first part of this book is a replay of Kane & Abel through the eyes of Richard and Florentyna.
*sigh*No issues with narration in any book.General opinions: Kane & Abel is an excellent story, and highly recommended.
Instead of his usual character-driven epics, we're treated to a lean, taut political thriller involving the potential assassination of US President Florentyna Kane.
First, a clarification: 'Shall We Tell The President' was Archer's second book, written before 'Kane And Abel' and 'The Prodigal Daughter'.
Archer draws on his own political experience and knowledge to portray the lives of politicians, the workings of Congress, and the difficulties in passing the controversial bill that forms the backdrop of the novel.
In all, this is a very good read, albeit a little different from some of Archer's other works.
Now there is just one rookie agent Mark Andrews who knows about the tip regarding the assassination of the President.
With the passage of time they come to know the man planning the assassination is one of the Senate of the United States of America.
What will they do, will they tell the President regarding the plot for her assassination and alarm the Secret Service.
With all the efforts of Mark and the director to unveil the killer, will they succeed?A very good book from the talented story-teller Jeffrey Archer.
I understand this is a severely rewritten book that Mr Archer haphazardly rewrote to make this into the 3rd part of the above trilogy.
This was shabbily put together solely to make more money as part of a trilogy where this book was not originally any where close to that.
This really has put me off from buying any other books by Jeffrey Archer.
The first 2 books really had me turning pages and wanting to see what would happen next.
The book is easy to read and as someone suggested, the idea of investigating thru library cards & not using the internet etc., in the revised version doesn't make much sense.The entire story evolves around a young agent Mark Andrews.
The sub-plot of a love-story between M.
Andrews and Dr. Elizabeth Dexter could have been more inter-weaved into the basic plot.
A character driven plot with added complexities in the form of sub-plots would have been wonderful.
The revised version, perhaps could have had multilayered characters.This was the first Jeffrey Archer book that I have read and I wonder how interesting 'Kane and Abel' would be.
