https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/169075.Nabokov_s_Dozen
Here’s one I liked from “Spring in Fialta:” “Having mastered the art of verbal invention to perfection, he particularly prided himself on being a writer; personally I could never understand what was the good of thinking up books, of penning things that had not really happened in some way or other…” In “Mademoiselle O,” a piece in homage to his nanny, he has a passage about how when he “lends” a real item from his past to a character in his writings, it starts to fade in importance from his own life and becomes more identified with its fictional use.
Liked some more than others.
Got the taste for his books now. Ready to read more by Nabokov.
I am fond of it because I feel it in the hollow of those violaceous syllables the sweet dark dampness of the most rumpled of small flowers, and because the alto like name of a lovely Crimean town is echoed by its viola; and also because because there is something in the very somnolence of its humid Lent that especially anoints one's soul.  With this story, he made me love the springtime in Fialta. Now I see why critics have argued that this story is Nabokov's lament on a lost love, an extramari
With this story, he made me love the springtime in Fialta.
Now I see why critics have argued that this story is Nabokov's lament on a lost love, an extramarital affair he had, or an ode to Russia.
The characters' innermost thoughts are aggrandized, becoming a part of the setting, the story, the place.
Nabokov places no limitations on his female characters.
Nina is spunky and carefree, and yet you see the struggle that both characters must face because they are being--well, too carefree.
Nabokov mě zkrátka uchvátil. Krátké, přesné, skvělé.
בסיפורים הקצרים של נאבוקוב, הרגע הזה כל כך שואב את הדמויות שהן פשוט מתות.
פעם אחר פעם מצאתי עצמי מופתעת, גם כשזיהיתי את התבנית שחותרת תחת הרצון לחיים של הדמויות נשארתי להתחבט עם הלמה, שאף פעם אינו ברור ופשטני כמו שאני מנסה להציג כאן.
באופן אבסורדי הספר נקרא ;"תריסר רוסי", מעין התרסה בולטת ומנגידה בין התוכן (שרובו ככולו עוסק בגרמניה או ברוסים שהיגרו לגרמניה או ביחסים שבין דמויות גרמניות לרוסיות) למהות, המעמידה את התרבות הרוסית שכביכול יציבה מול זו הגרמנית המעורערת, הרודפת אחר "פרפרים" של חופש וחלומות בלתי מציאותיים.
הוא נשא אשה, מקווה לנדוניה נאה, אך כעבור שבוע מת חותנו, ולא הניח אחריו חובות..." (פילגראם, 12) נאבוקוב אינו פשוט לקריאה.
His best work balances gracefully the referential and other functions of language, so that the text is both a world in itself (with puns, ironies, bot mots, and so on) and a window to the fictional world it describes (with characters, feelings, other ironies, and the like).That's an oversimplification, I know, but the point is this: in reading these stories, I felt like the text was opaque.
Each piece was lovely in itself, but that very loveliness obscured its "point." The thing made a better door than window.Once in a while a passage would resolve itself into a unit of meaning, and invariably that meaning was profoundly beautiful (hence the three stars).
Even these are occasion for wry social commentary, on adultery, frustration and lost opportunity in "Spring in Fialta" and on the craft of commercial fiction in "Lance," where I especially liked this remark by the narrator as he tries and fails to recall a particular face: "All I manage to glimpse is an effect of melting light on one side of her misty hair, and in this, I suspect, I am insidiously influenced by the standard artistry of modern photography and I feel how much easier writing must have been in former days when one's imagination was not hemmed in by innumerable visual aids, and a frontiersman looking at his first giant cactus or his first high snows was not necessarily reminded of a tire company's pictorial advertisement."This was written in 1952!
Though I found it a little bit hard for me maybe cause' I'm not that into drama this much, but it was fun to read and to explore Nabokov's world. Maybe I'd give it another shot some other time.
I half-expected a Nabokovian dozen to contain one less than the norm, but no, I did the old trickster a disservice - like a baker's round dozen, this collection of assorted short stories contains a generous thirteen of the things.The first of them, the tale of a spasmodic affair of stolen moments between two married Russian exiles across twelve years and called 'Spring in Fialta' is simply wonderful, full of the idiosyncratically caressing prose that only Nabokov can conjure up.
Ask who my favourite author is though and the answer will be, every time, Vladimir Nabokov.Many of the short stories in this book don't have particularly gripping plots, but at this length they don't really need to.
Instead, they exhibit everything that made Nabokov an unparalleled writer; vivid descriptions of people, places, and things which make them spring to life in the reader's imagination, sweeping flourishes that border on poetry, and that understated but very deliberate comedic tonic to bitter situations.
The highlight of the set for me was Spring In Fialta, a beautiful, sad reflection on the relationship between two people who are more than friends but less than lovers.
I had to cut my reading speed in half to work through the density of this writing; every word perfectly chosen - every scene and character imaginatively described with incredibly insightful and telling detail.
As for plot, the author conjures a series of scenes rather than telling a story, though a story does emerge.
Of course I liked some of the stories more than others; my favorites were Spring in Fialta and The Aurelian.
For glimpses of old Russia I liked A Forgotten Poet, and for the Stalinist era, The Assistant Producer.
In short, I found nearly all of the stories richly rewarding.
This collection of short stories is really a collection of masterpieces.
So many short stories by other authors are either boring or overly dramatic and lacking in depth.
Every story has its reason for existing, they are all important no matter what topic they focus on, and they are all very impressive.
I really love Nabokov for focusing on how horrible human beings are (that would be the red thread of this volume), and for showing it in so many different ways.
He is constantly touching on the same topic, but he never writes the same story twice.The downside would be that Nabokov is damned hard to read in Russian.
My least favorite Nabokov so far. It's not too surprising; I tend to prefer novels to short stories, and these didn't change my mind. This was one of those books where it seemed to gum up my reading: once I'd started it, I wasn't really motivated to keep reading, but I felt guilty not reading it, so I inched along and generally didn't read very much of anything until I finished it unenthusiastically. Now I can read as voraciously as I want again!
So heavy with words. Which sounds awful coming from someone who claims to love reading, but seriously. This short story has (I think) EIGHT flashbacks. I don't know. It was just too much for me to get into without enough intrigue.
Oh man. I gave both Pale Fire and Lolita five stars. However, this is a collection of what must be Vladimir Nabokov's worst stories ever. Stay away.
I hate to say it, but this collection left me cold. Nabokov's verbosity served great purpose in the novels of his I've read (and adored), but most of these brief narratives buckle under the verbiage.
More and more about love and memory and loss.7) “A Forgotten Poet” The story of a mild literary obsession growing around a lost poet and what happens when he returns and shatters the mythos.8) “Time and Ebb” A strange kind of almost sci fi or magical realist tale posed as a memoir.9) “Conversation Piece 1945″ An imagining of the realizations of the logical extensions of antisemitism after the fact.
A small mediation on the loss of someone who is still living and dealing with that lost simultaneous with still maintaining their care.11) “First Love” Every Russian writer has a story called first love.
[rating = B+]I just love Nabokov.
Maybe, he can sometimes (seem) to go a bit too far, but really, in the scheme of the whole story, it is quite necessary.
These particular stories range with a universal truth that was brought into existence by careful and witty observation of human existence (sometimes stemming from his own life).
At times, unfortunately, Nabokov actually bored me, but only with the last story "Lance", which I found quite peculiar and difficult to follow.
Truly, Nabokov has invented a new sort of storytelling.
If one is tired of Nabokov, one is tired of reading!
The stories are well written and the descriptions vivid.
Being so short, they often lack structure, but this is only my personal preference.
Some of the stories are really great, The Aurelian, Spring in Fialta, Mademoiselle O, and, Signs and Symbols being my favourites.
I would advise these stories to anyone interested in getting into Nabokov who isn’t willing to commit to a larger text or anyone looking for what are more akin to a series of images than stories.Although I recognise it to be well written, it only gets three stars for not being to my taste.
It’s my own personal preference.
If you read just one thing by Nabokov, you'd be hard pressed to find a more representative example of his talent than "Spring in Fialta", the first story in this collection.
It showcases Nabokov at his very linguistic best -- arch, erudite and beautiful to read aloud.
So if you don't like "Spring in Fialta" you quite probably just won't like Nabokov at all.
If however it charms you, you'll find a similar level of verbal dexterity in both "Lolita" and Nabokov's elegiac autobiography "Speak, Memory."
but upon reading each and every one of the stories I’ve come to visualize things in a new sense.
I felt the genius in which he wrote each and every one of these short stories.The first story caught me real good.
Someone had once read me a verse of it meant in a positive way and in retrospective i can see why that was.
it had stuck with me ever since till I finally read it and was caught instantly by the Nabokovian realm.
It was a first read of one of his works and it was a good one at that...
I read this because of a quote from Martin Amis on the topic of Nabokov's writing. The quote was:"The variety, force and richness of Nabokov's perceptions have not even the palest rival in modern fiction. To read him in full flight is to experience stimulation that is at once intellectual, imaginative and aesthetic, the nearest thing to pure sensual pleasure that prose can offer."I think the quote is accurate. Nabokov's writing is unlike almost anything I've read. That said, I found some of the short stories in this collection better than others. I'll try one of his full novels next.
Setkání s Nabokovem po bezmála 20 letech. A jsem rád, že nadšení z četby jeho knih či povídek je stále stejné. Je to slast. Podle mě je Nabokov jeden z nejlepších spisovatelů minimálně 20.století. Jeho popisy zdánlivě nudných okamžiků života, prvních emocinálních vzrušení, lidských charakterů - závidím mu jeho imaginaci a schopnost převést ji do slov a vět. Navíc umí skvěle vystihnout jakýsi intelektuální, sociální i politický kvas, který byl od začátku 20.století přítomný jak v tehdy carském Rusku, tak v poválečném Německu či USA. Takže teď přemýšlím, na jakou knihu se vrhnu jako další!
What a master. Haunting, evocative stories. His descriptions are more vivid than life. Other writers photograph a scene, Nabakov paints it. My favorites were Signs and Symbols; Cloud, Castle, Lake; That in Aleppo Once...; and Madamoiselle O.
Nabokov has a very Proustian way of depicting love, as a web of lies spun by the beloved who is essentially essence-less. The readership is thrown back into that same world full of signifiers without referents, just like with In Search for Lost Time, and Quicksand...
Ultima Thule is probably the worst thing I've read from Nabokov, the embodiment of the quote "They were so preocuppied with the fact that they could, that they didn't stop to think if they should".
Loved this. He's ones of my favourite writers. This is a beautiful short story about chance encounters and adultery. The descriptions packed into this story were just beautiful
the incalculable amount of tenderness contained in the world; of the fate of this tenderness, which is either crushed, or wasted, or transformed into madness; of neglected children humming to themselves in unswept corners; of beautiful weeds that cannot hide from the farmer and helplessly have to watch the shadow of this simian stoop leave mangled flowers in it's wake, as the monstrous darkness approaches." 57"we have a saying in russian: vsevo dvoe i est; smert' da sovest'- which may be rendered thus: there are only two things that really exist, one's death and one's conscience.
Those hopeless meetings.
We all have our days to pick our lessons from, because they are always happening around us, and it seems like a thrill every time to see and believe in the newness of salubrious teachings!Ardent in touch, and lively in causes.Lovely'the sea, its salt drowned in a solution of rain, is less glaucous than gray with waves too sluggish to break into foam.' hahah!
:DNina died, after telling of her promises to not love, even after those meaningful-hopeless meetings.
Victor loved her, for all his timings, but she didn't.
