https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/46799.Go_Ask_Alice
i read this in high school and went "oh my god...i'm never doing acid" and then went " how can anyone pretend this is a real diary?!" and then ate lsd-laced peanuts, locked myself in a closet, pulled out all of my hair and woke up three weeks later in a hospital bed..."what happened?" crap crap crap...this book is crap.
american youth, don't fall for this hoo-ha!***its funny how uptight people have gotten about this review: its the only book that's managed multiple "its for the betterment of our youth comments." a) i didn't miss the anti-drug sentiments.
If you believe this story is too far fetched to be true, then I must say that you are absolutely wrong, because my (recovering) drug addicted sister is "Alice", I am the innocent "Alex", and our family is the one that will always love her and always take her back.
My sister even started using at the same age as "Alice" so stuff like this does happen, even to good people.This book should not be looked at as "anti-drug propaganda" but rather as a story of a true drug addict.
But those of you old enough to remember the latter portion of the 70s might remember that Beatrice Sparks, the "editor" of Go Ask Alice, also "edited" a bunch of other alarmist books aimed at teens, all supposedly taken from teenagers' diaries.
It's not as though you had to perform a sophisticated rhetorical analysis to see that the authors were the same; there were all these stupid little tics in the writing common to all the books.
I hope that as I read further, Alice's drug-induced diary entries mark an improvement upon her character.1pm 16 Nov 2007Finished the book 3 days ago, and just finally stopped laughing so that I can be able to write this review.If this book was meant to make me want to do some drugs, then bully for Ms. Anonymous because it worked!
I'm afraid to live and afraid to die, just like the old Negro spiritual.
I am shocked to see so many negative reviews. Go Ask Alice had a profound impact on me. I read this book during my sophomore year of high school and it blew my mind. I gave it to a few friends and they all loved it as well. Whether this is truth or fiction doesn't matter. It's a poignant story that every young person should read.
What seems most likely is that Beatrice Sparks set out to write a book that would prove that smoking a joint or two, having sex without marriage, and (gasp!) not praying all the time would lead to a tragic decline and fall, eventually leading to a premature death.
When I tell people this, they usually look at me in an appalled fashion, and ask if my parents knew I was reading it.
When she saw that I was reading it, she looked at me a moment, then said something along the lines of: "Rachel, if you weren't such a mature reader/person, I would tell you not to read that book." And so, I read it, and felt deeply moved.
Though I suggest that Everyone read this book, I do agree with my mother, that for certain reasons, the reader must be mature enough to digest this true story of a girl, and not mock it or pull its lines to pieces with sayings such as: "like this would happen" or "whatever".
It contains every single cliche about how making friends with anyone whose social life doesn't involve Christian youth clubs will inevitably lead to the sort of parties where teenagers can drink beer and have a puff of a joint and it is downhill all the way from there.
You'd think that the book would be much praised by the sort of ultra-conservative parents who actually believe in this kind of crap, but no, every year it makes the list of the most-challenged books.
There might even have been more.I was going to shelve this book on my Crap Authors or Unreadable Books shelves, but actually in a kind of train-wreck way it was rather enjoyable.
3.5 StarsFirst published in 1971, Go Ask Alice is a controversial book involving teenage addiction.
We don't know the troubled teenage girls name but we follow her rapid descent into her life as an addict.
"Anonymous" is a lonely teenager who feels like she will never live up to the expectations of her parents.
I've read quite a few really good books about addiction and this is one book that I will never forget.
But the one thing that hasn't changed is that addiction can still ruin lives the way it always has.
- Alice?- Mm-hm?- They told me to go ask you.- Ask me what?- Ah... I guess, should I do drugs?- Well, how would I know? I'm just a made-up girl in a piece of anti-drugs propaganda that somehow became more famous than it deserved.- Hey, don't be like that. I meant, if you actually had existed, then what would you have said?The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Go Ask Alice is one of about seven diaries of anonymous teenagers edited by Sparks (with Jay's Journal even having the same cover, but with a boy instead), who also is apparently a Mormon youth counselor.
This is a book written by an adult, I suppose, trying to sound like a teenager.
I can't imagine a diary that I wrote in middle school would be free of weakness or self-absorption.I suppose there was an underlying noble cause in wanting to scare kids off drugs motivating the creation of this book, so it has some sort of value.
My daughter read this book.
I was preparing a lecture for Ashley about what is and is not appropriate for a child to read.
Then Ashley came to me and started talking about drugs.
She started talking about the things that kids say about drugs at school.
They made a vow to always be honest with each other and to always have each others backs.
They vowed to speak up if they see the other making bad choices.
I'm glad that she read the book.
It was such a great starting point for a tough talk.
only to find they continued throughout the book.It wasn't a very good diary, you didn't seem to get a proper look inside the person's head and you couldn't sympathise with them.
I know the allure of this book comes from the fact that it's a true story and someone's actual diary, well maybe they should have discarded the original and made one up because, true or not, this girl and her endless self-pity just made me sick.I suppose there's always the possibility that the ending would have stolen my heart for being so incredible, but I honestly don't feel any regret at never finding out.
I read this for the first time in college as part of a reading-intensive young adult lit class, and it was the worst of the many, many books we read.
For one girl in the class, it was the only book of the many, many we read that she actually liked, solely because it was the only one she morally approved of (man, how she loathed Weetzie Bat).
She went on to become our slacker school's valedictorian.
She was a poet and used the word "tapestry" too much in her writing.
I think all of this is quite reason enough to stay away from this book.
This is a sensationalist piece of garbage. A DARE commercial on speed (pun was intended) and I just didn't care about anyone because it was so poorly written.
This book is pretty silly & most likely a work of complete fiction.
It was written back when conservatives thought they needed to fictionalize drug abuse in order to frighten teenagers.
Luckily, this is a new millenium & most of us know what crack whores look like or have known people whose lives have been ruined by drugs.
Most kids read this book at a young age & find it too thrilling to realize it's anti-drug propaganda.
If you're not convinced that Go Ask Alice is fiction, read another "diary" that Beatrice Sparks has edited, like Jay's Journal, which is so ridiculous, even 12-year-olds can see that it's poorly written fiction.
On July 10, she was secretly dosed with LSD at a party.By July 20, she was using intravenous drugs.By September she had bought a leather fringed vest, and it was all over."This was the scene, these were the swingers, and I wanted to be a part of it!"So it goes in this 1971 classic of hysterical anti-drug malarkey.
Drugs make you gay, kids.Go Ask Alice - marketed as a real teen's diary - was actually written by Beatrice Sparks, a Mormon youth therapist who lied about her PhD and wholly invented this story, as well as many other insane fake teen journals about things like Satanism and AIDS.
I took this line out of an early version of this review: "Sparks, you are every bit as bad as the straight-laced missionaries who show up at my door with a sales pitch and a smile and a watered-down version of their religion specifically crafted to be palatable to non-believers like me."But then I read the wikipedia article on Beatrice Sparks.http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatrice...Sparks was entrusted with the true diary of a genuinely suicidal boy, but rather than editing it and printing it as the family wished, she used it as a platform for her personal crusade against satanism-- which the boy was not involved in.
This book is something every kid should read before high school. The main character is slipped LSD and hooked on drugs. As she becomes an addict, her diary explains her deepest fears and thoughts. The truth in stories can be scary.
Though purported to be the real diary of a 15-year-old girl who became addicted to drugs during the 1960's, Go Ask Alice is actually a work of fiction.The narrator unknowingly takes LSD (acid) at a party and has a great trip.
While I am certainly not an advocate of drug use, there is no scientific evidence that LSD is addictive--or marijuana, another key ingredient the narrator's downfall.
Can a bad trip be permanently dangerous to a person's sanity?
We all know this thing is a fake; and passages such as the one where her dad cites statistics on VD and suicide and other social ills and somehow she manages to remember and write them down verbatim hours later in the "diary" kind of give the thing away.I like the attempt at "authentic" touches, eg.: "Everyone knows that sex and shit* go together," with the asterisked "shit" referenced at the page bottom as "*drugs" just in case the shocked adults aren't hip to the diarist's youthful lingo.The writing style goes from the goo-goo-ga-ga golly gee-willikers level to the usage of more sophisticated words such as "nary" and "woebegone" at the drop of a hat.I am wondering how, when our diarist heroine was in the gutter and writing her diary entries on paper bags and such, she managed to maintain the clarity of mind to actually stow away these inconvenient pages to get them pasted back into the diary.
The only reason I read this book is because I thought it was an autobiography.
When I finished reading it, I did some research and found out that it was not a real diary.
The author was clearly trying to scare people with this book.
When I was reading the book, the only redeeming quality was the fact that I thought it was a real story.
If it scared people out of doing drugs, I suppose that's a plus but for me, it was not a good book and it didn't have a positive clear message.
This diary style written book is a story of a 15 year old girl who goes through the trials and tribulations of the basic teenager who throughout the book remain anonymous.
There are a total of two diaries total and the end of the book is completely left unexplained.
I just wish there would have been some more of the diary.
I hope that the kids in this generation won't let the verbage in GO ASK ALICE turn them off to reading this book because it's very informal and should really be read in it's entirety.
this book is so interseting is like so many surprising things happen unexpected .like this one girl has no control over herself shes been taken over by drugs and running away from her difficulties.i really like it because it shows how we complain so much of our everyday lives but what we dont know is anyone around us can be thinking the same . however solving it diferently in a way that can be so dangerous.
:-(Tanka knjiga, ali ni malo nebitna ili bez poruke!
Podsjetila me je na Mi djeca s kolodvora Zoo. Jako je teško čitati o problemima mladih ljudi koji ne vide izlaza iz svojih misli, ponašanja i odluka.
Teško je kada im se ne može pomoći, jer ni sami ne znaju kako bi tu pomoć prihvatili.
Teško je ostati ravnodušan na riječi mladog bića koje se utapa u zlu i ne vidi mu izlaza.
Preporuka za jednostavno pisani dnevnik, bez cenzure osjećaja.
Upoznajte svoju djecu kako biste znali kada nisu svoji!
Kada im je potrebna bilo kakva pomoć da možete reagirati na vrijeme.
This was obviously a part the editors edited heavily." Then I realized how often I was thinking that.
(And is shelved in our non-fiction section.)It was only after doing some additional research that I discovered that most people do consider the book to be a work of fiction and that it's proclaimed "editor" is the real author.
Overall, I say read it more for its historical value than anything else.
For god's sake don't read it as a piece of anti-drug propaganda.
I find the reviews that gloss over the fact that this book is fiction (and badly researched fiction at that) because "it delivers a good message" ridiculous.
Edit: 18/07/2014 After some research, I've finally found out that this book is NOT a true story, at all. It was passed off as a real, anonymous diary for years and years, but the author is actually Beatrice SparksDoes this change my opinion of the book? Only slightly. I'd like to know when I'm about to be cheated out of my opinion. If I'd known this beforehand, I probably would not have felt so invested in the book. So, yeah, you can say I am  really, seriously, beyond pissed . But I'm not going
It's raw, brutal and terrifying.You're inside a fifteen-year-old anonymous girl's head.You're watching her struggling to fit in.You begin getting that clammy feeling in your hands and neck that means something horrid is going to happen.You watch a fifteen-year-old spiral out of control, and there is nothing you can do to help her.After some research before writing this review, I'm still not 100% sure if this is a true story or if it's based on true events.
In all honesty, I was drawn at eight or nine by Alice's drug use, sex, and profanity.
It sounded very romantic during the gray days of Nixon.Flash forward nearly thirty years and I'm hired to write a book about coming-of-age novels.
It now strikes me as a period piece, very much like an afterschool special of the same era (i.e. DAWN: PORTRAIT OF A TEENAGE RUNAWAY).
It'll be a great mystery for some literary detective to solve should the original manuscript---supposedly sequestered in the publisher's vault---ever surface.As for the book itself, it reads like a template for the contemporary young-adult "problem" novel.
The way I felt about this book entirely changed once I found out that it wasn't a real diary, which provided insight into how much the background story of a novel affects my enjoyment of it.
Yes. What struck me the most about the book in the first place was the supposed 15 year old's ability to be honest with her diary - I constantly lie to my own, never trusting it with the truth, or trusting myself with it - so when that need for someone to be honest with it fades away as the purported author isn't the real one, so does the sheen with it.
So yes, the change in my knowledge of the back story and author has made a world of difference.
This was a reading request from a girl in my Class 12 at the American International School, Nicosia. I agreed, knowing that these kids were experimenting with drugs - the intention being that the book would provide enough information to put them off rather than titillate.Personally l didn't like - very harrowing, and ultimately boring in the repetition of details in the girl's decline.
