https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6387565-witch-wizard
I felt as though it was trying to be HP so much that it, quite frankly sucked.I found it hard to believe that with magical parents, you would not know you had magical powers until you were convicted for them and then suddenly have complete control on them in a matter of days.
Another problem I had was that everything happened so fast that I didn't know what was going on, especially at the end.The cliffhanger ending indicates that several more books in the series will follow, but I am not so excited to find out what they hold in store.
I've never really been a big fan of James Patterson.
After Reading "Angel Experiment" and "Daniel X" I had pretty much given up on this guy.
Although, I had heard some amazing things about his new book "Witch & Wizard" so I thought 'What the heck' and so I picked it up and read it.
On top of that, I've never really been a big fan for his short chapters.
I feel that this book had a lot of potential and if written by anyone other than Patterson (or Stephanie Meyer) then I actually might have enjoyed it.
My thoughts:I couldn't wait to get my hands on this book.
I'm so glad I waited to get it from my local library rather than buying it at the book store.
I started getting a bit disenchanted after reading The Beach House, one of the first books he co-authored.
The main characters, Whit and Wisty Allgood were so over the top-it was almost laughable.
And the bad guys were so BAD it was laughable.
What a time waster!I finished the book but I couldn't wait until the last page so I could be done with them and their story.
This is the first book that I've read and that I couldn't finish without skimming over most of it. The writing was so, so bad, the characters were so stupid and made all the wrong decision and the dialogue was so cheesy. I've been searching for at least one thing that I liked about the book, but I failed miserably. I quite like James Patterson's books, but I don't know what happened in this one. This might possibly be the worst book that I've read so far, and that really is saying something.
Ugh.Everything about this book was cliche and annoying: the characters, the dialogue, the plot...Nothing was well developed at all.
It was just a big fat mess.
When J.P. tried to be funny, I found it irritating, when he tried to be clever, I found it stupid, and when he tried to be original, I found it sadly the opposite.I was very, very disappointed in J.P., especially since this is the first book I've read by him.
I know he's got some other popular books, but if they are anything like this one, I know I wont be a fan.
Uh… no thanks, I think I’ll go search around blindly for my parents, even though I don’t know where they are and it would only take me a day or so to save those kids.
The only thing that kept me reading was the hope that it would eventually get better and that I’d heard that James Patterson’s a good author.
And then, after wading through the one dimensional characters, idiotic dialogue, a terrible plot line and one hundred chapters of stupid, you finally get to the end… and you don’t find out anything.
I don't know whats worse- this book, or the fact that I read it.I hated practically everything about this novel.
Switching between the two characters didn't have the desired effect I know Patterson had been going for.
I was humiliated for the authors.Witch and Wizard not what I had been expecting.
Witch and Wizard was not at all what I'd hoped for in a Patterson book.
People have told me that he was a good author, but I'm mortified at the thought of reading another one of his books after this disaster.
I'm afraid that this book is actually a best-seller.I've never felt such a huge amount of hate for a book.
Plot is cliched as fuck, characters are so freaking hateful not even Satan would want them near, world is absolutely lame and barely constructed, and don't make me start with "motherfucking-money" James Patterson's writing style.
And I'm actually Spaniard, so I read this crap in Spanish and I could find the part of the mighty and embarrasing "smarmy beyond smarmy and tough noogies" but English doesn't need to be my mother language to find out that sounds STUPID AS FUCK.Why is the world lame?

What is worse than a flat, static main character?
TWO flat, static main characters.
What are they paying you for?)The magic the two characters possess lacks any kind of order or explanation.
I kept wondering if it was some kind of joke the authors and publishers were trying to pull on young readers, to see if people would really read crap if it only had "Witch and Wizard" in the title.
It was almost as if Patterson and Charbonnet were trying to be funny which doesn't match up with the tone of the story at all, which despite the awful writing, was clearly supposed to be intensely dramatic.
In the front, the library had stuck their little comment sheet, a place where people can mark a book when they have read it.
Being wanted is not a good thing, as they soon find out, and the New Order does not play nice.How anyone could think a book titled Witch and Wizard was anything other than a fantasy, I do not know.
Go local library and Patterson groupies!Witch and Wizard was a very easy read, I devoured it in one afternoon/evening.
This book is about these two kids Whit, and Wisty that are taken away from their home in the middle of the night and accused of being a witch and a wizard. Its all because of the New Order thats run by this man called The One Who Is The One, who is trying to rid the world of all magic. I think that ANYONE can read this book and still love it! It pulled me in from the first chapter. It is defenintley a page-turner!:)
The plot revolves around two teens dragged from their parents by the totalitarian “New World Order.” Prison, terror, ham-handed magic, and kewl “if teenagers ran the world” mythmaking follow before the book reverts to its opening cliffhanger, setting the way for the obligatory—and unnecessary—sequel.What makes the book so objectionable?
The New World Order and its prisons knowingly evoke gulags and concentration camps, complete with torture and executions.
Quislings are redeemed without the satisfaction of guilt, and the monstrous laws of the New World Order are equipped with a few booming loopholes to enable lazy writing.“Witch and Wizard” plays out like a cash grab that was written and conceived in the same three-day weekend.
It was really easy to connect to the characters, and this book makes the reader re-evaluate his or her appreciation for art - whether it is visual, literary, musical, or magical.
The ending was a bit of a disappointment, but this was such a good book (for the most part) that I blew through it in one day.
I also enjoyed making the connections between pop culture references, and Patterson's alternate history equivalents.
I would give it a 4.5 star rating, the .5 taken off being the ending.
Ughhhh.... Patterson. No!!!!I did not like this book.No way, no how. :(
High hopes for this one.First thoughts upon finishing the book:Just.Not.Impressed.I used to like James Patterson- and by 'used to', I mean when I first read The Angel Experiment.
Now, the commercial tells me you're trying to appeal to the masses who don't read much, but short chapters don't reduce the length of the book; in fact, they make it look longer.
What in the world did Whit and Wisty's parents have against them?Seriously.'Whitford' and 'Wisteria'?Maybe in Victorian London those names wouldn't have been out of place, but most parents are more merciful nowadays.
It's a first person told story and switches perspectives between the sister and brother (witch and wizard).The part that was a little confusing (and thus not more stars)is that each chapter is theoretically a change of character but sometimes it isn't.
There is no reason at all to break up the Chapter because the action picks up on the new page exactly where it leaves off on the previous one, so why interrupt it and confuse the reader?...
Here's how the story goes:The world is taken over by The One Who is The One who bannes individualism, art, free thinking etc.
No reason to try and recreate it with less likable characters.
Maybe with exception to the boy who was turned into a weasel.
And to be honest, halfway through the book, I could see why he wanted to turn these obnoxious siblings into the authorities for possible execution.
Come one kids, adjectives can be fun.
I find it hard to believe that two teenagers, no matter how many detentions they claim to have sat through in school with their bad attitudes, would constantly have some sort of surly answer at the ready for the men who were trying to kill them.
**0.5 stars**As the fiery cover suggests, I burned this book, feeling no regret as I did, and a big urge to start dancing.
This book was just THIS BAD.
(I wasn't kidding about burning it, I seriously did).
The writing sucks.
The characters are dumb, with the dumbest names I've ever heard (Whit and Whisteria, wtf??!) .
The plot is confusing and cliché af.
I tried the next books to see if it would get better (SPOILER: they didn't) and eventually DNFed at like book 4.
DO NOT RECOMMEND.
This is one of my most least favorite books of all time.
why does this guy have a writing career?What’s it about?A brother and sister are taken from their home and put in a prison because they’re accused of being a witch and wizard which is pretty much all I can say without giving a bunch of spoilers.Why this gets 1 star:The story is poorly done I guess would be a good way to put it.
As a teenager maybe I’m different but if I got into trouble frequently I wouldn’t be happy about it and the most “rebel” kinda thing I do is let the dog lick my face even though my mom thinks it’s gross.
I read the whole thing, and really didn't care for it. I don't plan on continuing the series. I felt like maybe because he was writing it as YA that he dumbed it down a lot. It seemed to be very simplified and childish. I really was not able to connect with any of the characters or the story at all.
I thought it was some what simular to the Maxium Ride Series because of the special powers the Witch "Wisty" and the Wizzard "Whit" had, along with them being teen agers.
The only difference is is that Wisty and Whit were born with their powers and the kids in the the Maxium Ride Series were created by experiments.This Story also reminded me of The Hunger Games by Suzan Collins because of the dictatorship and how the freedoms we have in a democracy goverment are taken away.Wisty and Whit go through imprisionment, escape, and rescueing others from The One who is the One. The travel between different deminisions and discover their are worlds beyond the world they live in.
I wasn't a big fan of this book, some might like it, but, it is just not my type
Zanimljivo, uzbudljivo, prožeto humorom i magijom. Knjiga je možda više namenjena za tinejdžere, ali verujem da nije problem uživati u njoj ako je u čitaocu ostao makar malo tinejdžerskog duha.Dvoumila sam se koju ocenu dati, ali kad pogledam kojim knjigama sam davala koju ocenu i na osnovu čega, mislim da je ovo fer ocena.
I think the most I can say is that the idea is interesting - that a totalitarian society suddenly springs up in a world much like our own, and the children of the world have to face both the rising of this and of their to-this-point unknown magical powers.
But if the point (as is made hammer-over-head blatant throughout) is for kids to wake up and take control of their own power and place in the world, then we really need to see how a new totalitarian society is made, with collaborators already behind it, overnight.
So. If the quotes above read to you as menacing and good character-building, then maybe you'll like the uneven, choppy nature of this book.
The novel was greatly illustrated, with vocabulary words, which would help readers understand the characters perspective and personality.
Unlike a lot of novels, this book was a mix between, Harry Potter, and The Hunger Games.
One thing I liked about the book was the dialogue between the characters.
One thing I did not like about the book was that it was hard to follow.
There were a lot of characters, names, and magic.
While trapped in this nightmare, Whit and Whisty discover they have magical powers which can maybe help them find there lost parents, save themselves and maybe the world!
His very short chapters and constantly "in motion" stories have the ability to capture any readers attention.But, and yes, here comes the but...
I'm surprised that James Patterson has resorted to allowing others to write his books and then put his name on them.
Witch and Wizard echoes Patterson's writing with short chapters, but the story?
It's actually pretty good, but, and here's another but, the story seems overdone.
I think that's what most readers would like to read about, the magic the siblings could do.Reluctant readers love the book.
I'm beginning to think that James Patterson is just farming out his name and writing format to lesser authors in need of exposure.
Witch and Wizard is a serviceable if depressing teen thriller, but the problem starts at the beginning of the novel: the action takes precedence over character development, so the reader never gets a full picture of our protagonists beyond a few snide comments and stress based dialogue.
There is allusion to the differences between the siblings, told through the voice of whichever character is currently telling the story, but they are largely undefined.
This story has been told before, and much better.
I read this book a long time ago.
However, due to my younger age, I never got my hands on the sequel.
Not too long ago, I heard that another book in the series had come out, and I asked myself, 'Why not give it another go?'Now, I went into the book calmly, remembering that I was younger and that I may have overreacted about how the book was.
but hey, they're siblings, what do you expect?I could go on and on, but I want someone reading the review to go into the book as blindly as I did when I was younger.
In an attempt at fairness to the "author", I listened to the first of several discs, but had to force myself to get through that. While stopping short of plagiarism, this work offered nothing new. Themes and characters were rehashed from the works of Orwell's 1984, Ursula LeGuin, Bradbury, J.K. Rowlings and no doubt others. I heard nothing new. Far too many original works are left to be read; I gave this one more time than it deserved.
