https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11007.Exiles
Ancak herhangi bir Joyce eseri olunca akan sular duruyor.Joyce'un portre ve Ulysses öncesi yazdığı bu oyunda sonradan derinleştireceği bazı dertlerini ruşeym halinde görmek, İrlandalılık, sürgün, mezhep sorunları ve Joyce'un ailevi ve kişisel problemlerini satır aralarında okumak olası.
Ancak temel eserlerini okumayanlar için bu eserin çok önem teşkil etmesini beklemiyorum.
Joyce meftunları " el mahkum" okuyacaklardır zaten.Diğer eserlerden bağımsız oyuna gelirsek; sahnede nasıl durur bilmiyorum ama alter ego mr richard'ın oğlu ile kendinde olanı vermek ve eşiyle sevgi ve aidiyet üzerine yaptığı tartışmalar kitabın güçlü yanlarıydı, aslında salt ilişkiler üzerine de okunabilecek ve bu yanıyla da tat alınabilecek bir kitap.
Neyse Joyce sevgimden mütevellit biraz daha konuşursam övmelere doyamıyacağım için uzatmıyor ve huzurlarınızdan ayrılıyorum.
, a middle-aged couple, Richard and Bertha, find their moral allegiances tested by the coyly subdued Beatrice and charmingly passionate Robert respectively.
Can they burrow their existence to retrieve an arm, potent enough to sever the society watch gates and impart freedom to the heart bird?
I imagine Joyce cut his heart into two, sealed each with his past and present saps and assumed the two halves would continue beating, insulated to each other’s existence.
Sigh…The Heart flutters.
You may then know in soul and body, a hundred forms, and ever restlessly, what some old theologian, Duns Scotus, I think, called a death of the spirit.
There is a muddy dip of uncertainty surrounding this piece.
My expectations for Exiles were of a bridge, another route to Ulysses and the Wake.
I found this uncanny as I recently viewed Kazan's Baby Doll and found the introduction of Eli Wallach's character a perfect foil to a tale of Southern decline.
Here in Exiles the betrayed character refuses to condemn nor employ violence.
Meh, it would probably be better to see this performed. Nonetheless, I have read it. Must finish the Wake now.
The entire play is mechanical, characters interact for reasons no less shallow than "it's time for us to have dialogue together now." Not only that but Joyce litters the page with so many directions that are either needlessly controlling or just plain needless because anyone would have picked up on it.
To be sure, there is nothing here that isn't in his other works, but since he's inept at writing a play it doesn't have that separating film of the artistic filter.
Exiles is much more straightforward than any of his novels, and far more dramatic and interesting than any of the short stories in The Dubliners.
I decided to give it a try after hearing that it was by far his most "conventional" work, a term which appeals to me in respect to authors like James Joyce and William Faulkner.
The story centers on the folly of trying to approach romantic relationships in any kind of enlightened, sophisticated way.
The writing style of Exiles may be straightforward, but the ideas that Joyce puts forth provide as much food for thought--for my money, anyway--as his more celebrated works.
But even with Richard we do not come to understand the motivation behind his encouragement of his wife's potential infidelity, the principal dramatic content of the play; hints are made that it springs from some kind of misogynistic impulse, but that is not really a proper explanation (where did the impulse come from?).The main model for the style of the play is Ibsen, as refracted through George Bernard Shaw's commentary and William Archer's translations.
It was not long before I left Israel and the title and the presumed content and my own life history all coalesced into me picking up the book with a mixture of melancholy and slight, god help me, exaltation.Going into this play I had a host of expectations based on what I've read from and about Joyce in the past.
I wasn't expecting the magnitude of Ulysses or the internal maze wandering that was Portrait of the Artist, not having read too many plays recently (save Faust a year ago and Ibsen a little before that).
‘Exiles’ is the only play Joyce produced and was, upon its release, derided as filth and rejected by theatres at home and abroad, as well as by esteemed literary and theatre figures like George Bernard Shaw and WB Yeats.
Having been familiar with Joyce only through his collection of stories, ‘The Dubliners’, ‘Exiles’ proved somewhat of a departure, and a disappointing one at that.
Perhaps I lack the dramatist-like insight necessary to see how this would translate beautifully to the stage but I fail to see how prose as monotonous as this could ever take any sort of compelling form.
a confused play supposedly based on Joyce's fear/expectation of what would happen if he returned to Ireland after his years living abroad. not worth your time
وی در ۱۳ ژانویه ۱۹۴۱ در حالی که از درد چشم و فقر و بیماری رنج می برد، در زوریخ چشم از جهان فروبست.سیر روایی نمایشنامه :ریچارد که خود را به تبعیدی خود خواسته وا داشته است و از دوبلین سرزمین مادریش به فرانسه پناه برده است آن هم به دلیل مشکلاتی که کشورش داشته .بعد از مدتی با همسرش برتا که از خانواده ای سطح پائین بود به دوبلین باز میگردد به دلیل مرگ مادرش.در این میان دوست ریچارد که رابرت نام دارد بعد از شکست عاطفی که با بئاتریس داشته است عشق خود را به همسر ریچارد ابراز می کند.برتا موافقتش با عشق رابرت را با رفتارش نشان می دهد.و این موضوع را با همسرش ریچارد در میان می گذارد.زیرا به همدیگر قول داده اند که هیچ چیز را در زندگی از همدیگر پنهان نکنند.
I do not mind Joyce looking up to Ibsen but he should have worked on his dramatist skills a bit more…There are many themes in Exiles and perhaps too many…liberation, feminism, Ireland, religion, autobiographical things, morality…list goes on.
Because you take advantage of my simplicity as you did- the first time.”There are parts in the dialogue between Richard and Stephen where the influence of Ibsen is obvious such as:ROBERT: There are moment of sheer madness when we feel an intense passion for women.
Exiles, a 3-act play by James Joyce, is centered on a love-triangle between Richard Rowan, his wife Bertha, and Robert Hand, Richard's longtime friend.
Their conversation rapidly dribbles out little tidbits that bring a slew of questions to the mind of the reader (or audience).
Questions like, "What kind of wild past did these two guys enjoy?" Or, "Does Richard want his friend and his wife to get together?" And perhaps most of all, "Why did James Joyce try to write a play?" That's just it.
A drama written without the dramatist's touch.
It was fun...enough, coaxed a few chuckles but never a hearty guffaw.
Prilično zastarjela melodrama (zbog tematike), bar na prvu. Glavni lik Richard, očito Joyceov alter-ego nejasan je, „nema do kraja istesane karakterne crte“.Činilo se da će biti neke zavrzlame s ljubavnim četverokutom, ali ispalo je samo hrpa dijaloga.Filozofija partnerskih odnosa – sloboda ili vjernost. Pitanje posesivnosti.Studija o odnosu ljubavi i slobode na pragu moderniteta u kulturi. (I. Vidan)Odnos s majkom usp. Mauriacova Genitrix.Ima solidnih dramatskih trenutaka (npr. 262)243 stavljanje riječi u božja usta- pro poligamnost.’Zagonetni’ kraj drugog čina, neloš efekt.281 vrlo solidna kulminacija, ali sve skupa mi se čini nedorečeno ili možda, bolje rečeno, bljutavo za četiri zvjezdice.
"I have wounded my soul for you -- a deep wound of doubt which can never be healed. I can never know, never in this world. I do not wish to know or to believe. I do not care. It is not in the darkness of belief that I desire you. But in restless living wounding doubt. To hold you by no bonds, even of love, to be united with you in body and soul in utter nakedness -- for this I longed. And now I am tired for a while, Bertha. My wound tires me."
Although this play draws upon 'The Dead,' I felt that Exiles had far less of an emotional impact than the stories in Dubliners, in general. I only gradually developed a mental picture of the set and the characters, which I could finally visualize by about halfway through the Second Act; I'd really love to see the work performed.
Picture a strong Ibsen influence, yet more autobiographical, more unique and with a happy end. It sure gets you thinking, after all it's more than a complex triangle. It's about the implications of love and commitment, of life and freedom. You manage to empathize with some of the characters even if you'd never would do this game of self damage.
مفهمتش اغلبها وكل الرفيوهات انجليزي
Worst JJ book is better than everybody else's best!edit-On second thought this is good but pretty forgettable. Fun for JJ fans, tho!
"It is not in the darkness of belief that I desire you. But in restless, living, wounding doubt."-RichardDon’t read this play too fast.If you take the time to parse lines such as the one above, instead of skating over their vague emotion, your brain will squirm, bend, and morph as it tries to evolve into a more skillful mechanism.  This is the classic Joycean headspace -- or at least the best junior version of it that can be mustered on the predominantly extroverted medium of the Stage.It is fas
This is a classic dramatic effect that Joyce stole from Ibsen- whom he was obsessed with at the time.
Joyce exiles his characters from their own emotions.
Joyce was a huge fan of Schopenhauer, who if you aren’t familiar with, was a philosopher who advocated Disassociation, Serenity, and Self-Awareness as the only way to ever escape being a slave to one’s immediate emotional experience.
The characters are exiled from their own emotions just as much as they are exiled in more tangible ways: morally and nationally.
A must read if you’re interested in the progression of Joyce.I started reading this on Bloomsday 2018 sitting on a beach in Lanzarote facing the Atlantic.
Some say Joyce was merely copying Ibsen and the themes are the same but for me Joyce’s interests are clearly evident in this short play.
He is also haunted by thoughts of adultery, of infidelity, of breaking love, and knowing of Joyce’s escapades in Europe these are clearly his own thoughts and fears and doubts at the time of writing.
Of patriotism, of history, of being an Exile.But for me the most interesting thing is the progression of Joyce’s writing.
Se on aika erikoinen Joycen teokseksi, sillä sen aiheena on rakkaus.
Tuntuu siltä että Eeva-Liisa Manner on lukenut tämän aika tarkkaan, jotenkin hänen näytelmänsä tulivat tästä mieleen, etenkin Toukokuun lumi.
Manner on myös kirjoittanut tästä hienon esseen "Kamarimusiikkia" (kokoelmassa Ikäviä kirjailijoita, 1994), joka nimestään huolimatta vain ottaa vauhtia Joycen runokokoelmista Chamber Music ja Poemes Pennyeach ja keskittyy sen jälkeen Exiles-näytelmään.
Näytelmä ei oikeastaan ole ole sellainen kolmiodraama kuin miltä se ensin näyttää, sillä keskeisiä henkilöitä on neljä, tunteellinen kirjailija Richard joka haluaa kylpeä varpaitaan kastelematta, hänen maanläheinen vaimonsa Bertha joka rakastaa miestään mutta on altis sulokielisen Robertin houkutuksille, ja Beatrice Justice joka vain on.
Two couples enjoy a somewhat toxic relationship.
Richard, returning from working abroad, tests his love for Bertha (or her love for him) by encouraging her in an open relationship with a friend of his, Robert.
Things are further complicated by Richard's spiritual betrayal with Robert's cousin, Beatrice.In typical Joyce fashion there's a lot going on here between the lines, (much of which I'm sure I missed), but the play is quite entertaining and thought provoking.
The dialogue comes thick and fast and sometimes it's hard to keep up.
It would be easier to appreciate on stage I think and I'm surprised that it isn't performed more often.Worth a read.
Unsurprisingly, the general consensus is wrong on this; it’s great, though sometimes clumsy (often in the dialogue–strangely, since Joyce is a master of both natural and hieghtened speech in his other works). An emotionally complex study of gender/sexual/marital/homosocial politics with vivid characters, a clockwork structure of rotating conversational duets, cat-and-mouse suspense, and a few lyrical ‘epiphanies’. There are too few romantic relationships in art as honest, confusing, fucked up, and sweet as the one between Bertha and Richard here.
Move along ... nothing to see here .... *blushes profusely* Every writer is allowed a few duds, this one happens to be Joyce's. Save yourself the time and just keep moving till you get back to Ibsen, his plays are much better.
There are some things that writers don't have to make up, because they live them. I have no idea how autobiographical Exiles is, but I know that, young and inexperienced as I may be, I have lived some semblance of this play, and it is powerful and relatable and madness-inducing.
i'm sure all the semi-autobiographical stuff would make a joyce superfan happy ... but as for me, i almost cannot believe this is the same person who wrote dubliners
A better play than it is a script. A very good play. A three star script. - Joyce is an intellectual beast, I can't even see where he ends.
Noticed some Ibsen influence.
3,5/5
