https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2310.French_Ways_and_Their_Meaning
Pour cela, elle se concentre sur les préjugés négatifs dont les français sont affublés, et tournent systématiquement tout à leur avantage, sans oublier de glisser quelques petites bizarreries pour donner plus de vraisemblance à sa jolie peinture, comme la superstition dans les campagnes.
Un point sur lequel elle insiste beaucoup, et qu'elle emprunte aux préjugés des français sur les américains, c'est une soi-disant 'maturité' dont se flatte l'européen.
C'est un point un peu ambiguë, car si la prudence est certainement une bonne chose, elle peut à l'excès verser dans la malice, et je me demande si une bonne foi naïve et sincère et des rapports plus simples et directs ne rendent pas la vie finalement plus agréable que cette inquiétude de toujours vouloir être plus malin que les autres.
In the preface, she writes, ''one can imagine the first Frenchman born into the world looking about him confidently, and saying: Here I am; and now, how am I to make the most of it.'' Later in the book, she compares the French woman to the American woman and claims that the French woman is fully evolved and grown-up, while the American woman is still in Kindergarten.
Elsewhere she says they are pleasure seekers and knows how to be joyful.Wharton right in the Preface warns the reader that her views on The French are not definitive in any way, and refers to her book as desultory that contains a series of disjointed notes on the French.The book in terms of language is far from disjointed.
This delightful little volume is a compilation of articles written for American troops bound for France in World War One. While their effect on the average doughboy may be questionable, they give a powerful and invaluable insight into one of the most perceptive minds of the age.Wharton, in her most engaging and always readable style, discusses First Impressions, and examines issues of Reverence, Taste, Intellectual Honesty, and Continuity, and, in her essay on the New Frenchwoman, reveals perhaps more about herself than her subjects.Highly recommended as a fine introduction to the author.
Her wit is subtle but carries through each little essay in this book.
I agree with the introduction that this book isn't so much about who the French really are, but how Edith Wharton saw them.
Wharton empashsis the overall French traditoin is a rich one, which is more than one can say about Americans who do not seem to remember yesterday let alone their roots.
I am paraphrasing heavily, but I think she might agree.I don't know how accurate Wharton was in her description of the French during and after WW1, but I sense that there are nuggets of truth there that carry on to today.
Some interesting thoughts.
Like this one about French ant their respect of La Patrie: “Far different is the lot of the dishonest man of business and of the traitor to the state.
For these two offenders against the political and social order the ultimate horrors of the pit are reserved”After all the French are daring bring to court their ex-President who got money from a foreign country Libya hopefully Americans will do the same with our present buffoon and its Russia moniesThere were quite a few remarks which had still apply but the analysis is generally outdated compared with the modern French society.
I like Edith Wharton and love all things French so of course I checked it out of the library. Lots of observations that are still true today. Interesting opinions on women during WWI. Kinda wordy and not the best for bedtime when sleepy. But oh, how she loved the French! Side note: her novel(la) Ethan Frome is one of my favorites and I named my first son Ethan. But not after Ethan Frome because he had a sad, miserable life. It just brought the name to my attention.
Still, just to hear her well-expressed insights was relaxing.The most interesting and surprising part of this book to me was how she described the differences between French and American woman.
She says the French "salon" (I am not fully familiar with this) where male visitors are received (and female, alike), and where conversation is an art, keeps the intellect of the woman alive, with ideas and discussions of politics, culture and cleverness.I had never considered this before and was surprised to find her say it.
But I do know I enjoy great conversation almost more than anything, and Wharton emphasizes that the French are the masters of the art of it.
This collection is brilliant and reveals Wharton's thoughts on women, culture, and equality.
Her comparison of French and American societies still rings true today, especially her discussion of marriage, Wharton's signature topic.
The whole time I read this, I kept thinking about how true this still is: women are still expected to become "the good little woman" really from the point they become engaged.
Especially interesting is the fact that Wharton is making the same argument as Gayle Rubin in "The Traffic in Women," but a good 60 years before her!
A must read for anyone interested in Wharton, feminism, or the early twentieth century.
A quick little read in which Edith Wharton compares/contrasts the French to Americans through short little essays covering topics such as: taste, reverence, and intellectual honesty to name a few.
The French frequently came out on top in her comparisons.
Much of the French enigma still remains nearly 100 years after this book was published.
So, not surprisingly, a non-fiction book about the French people and culture would be all about human nature.
This book was written nearly 100 years ago, so certainly some aspects have changed for both cultures.
Women in the US routinely work alongside men.
I cannot "partner" with my husband in his work as Wharton describes for the French women -- I am not a rocket scientist -- but I can and have influenced decisions he has made within his career.
So, either the US has "grown up" a bit as a nation and within its culture, or I have been deeply affected by my French maternal grandmother.
Wharton wrote _French Ways and Their Meaning_ during WWI as a way to encourage cultural understanding for the British-- and then American-- troops that were involved in the war effort on French soil.
In it is a tender accounting for of what might seem like French idiosyncrasies.
Wharton's tenderness toward her subject is clear.
"The New French Woman" essay is widely-read as Wharton's treatise on ideal womanhood, but the other chapters of the book, less widely-read, give you a sense of what Wharton understood as the role of art, taste, history, etc.
in a culture.
Written at the time of World War I, this was a effort to explain a culture that might look, on the surface, close to American, but is really quite different.
The book reveals perhaps as much about Wharton, as it does about the French.
Surprising to the reader, this book is not so out-of-date.
Nowadays it seems anyone who has spent any time at all in France writes a tome...witty, serious, analytical, take your pick..about the culture.
This book, in spite of its age, holds up as well as some of those books which also romanticize the French culture.
If you like more scientific non-fiction this will probably irritate you, but if you like to dream about romantic notions like a culture having an innate ability to appreciate art, you might enjoy it. I am in the latter group...I think that even if this book might be speculative and perhaps a bit outdated, it is a fun daydream, and there are many quotable bits.
It is obvious when reading that the book was written a century ago but I liked how Edith Wharton romanticised the French. There is undoubtedly some truth in her observations. It is good to read about her insight as she makes interesting points.
My paternal grandmother was French, and I think the way I live and think and love the things I do, I have to be French right to the marrow of my bones. Reading this book is like reading a biography written about me. Fascinating.
I read this a few years ago and need to reread it. I liked her view of the French and there are parts that I found quite cryptic at times (written in the early 1900's)
The only nonfiction I've read by Wharton. I read it right before the first time I visited France and I found it quite insightful. Wharton really loved France and it shows here.
in need of editing. i prefer wharton's fiction.
This book gives me the chills. I'm so jealous of her life. I was born in the wrong land.
http://www.bookcrossing.com/journal/1...
Although this book is ostensibly about French ways, at its heart it is about American ways and where Americans might be rather more tolerant of the French or even emulate them.
I usually love Wharton's writing, but being this was non-fiction, it didn't grab me as much. I am fascinated with WWI, but her American views on life in France was a bit off-putting for me.
Seriously, Edith Wharton? Seriously?
