https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1131795.To_Let
It may be because much of what I want to say about it I've already written in my reviews of the the first two novels of the The Forsyte Saga trilogy, The Man of Property: The Forsyte Saga and In Chancery, which can be found here and here.
This novel is as witty a commentary on English middle class values as the first two novels in the trilogy.
Galsworthy chronicled the passing of the Victorian and Edwardian ages, and the social, economic and political changes experienced by the English middle class as it moved into the 20th century.
All in all, I found listening to the audiobook edition of the novel a most worthwhile and at times moving experience.
Terzo capitolo della prima quadrilogia della famiglia Forsyte, un lungo viaggio attraverso l'Inghilterra che è un po' quadro della tarda società vittoriana fino agli anni del primo dopoguerra.
Complici le scelte delle case editrici nostrane, c'è molta confusione attorno ai titoli di questa saga, che così si compone:Prima quadrilogia dei Forsyte:- Il Possidente (sia per Mondadori che per Elliot edizioni).- In Tribunale (per Elliot, Mondadori lo chiama "Alla Sbarra")- In Affitto (per Elliot, Mondadori lo chiama "Appigionasi")- Casa Forsyte (per Elliot, mentre Mondadori chiude la raccolta chiamandola "La borsa dei Forsyte) In realtà seguono poi due interludi (ma si dice che invece vadano considerati addirittura dopo il primo volume) anche se in realtà la Saga è molto più lunga e complessa (segue infatti poi una seconda trilogia intitolata "Una commedia moderna" , con titoli come "La scimmia bianca" e "Il cucchiaio d'argento", "Il canto del cigno", si tratta infatti complessivamente di poco meno di 15 libri) .
אך איירין הקשובה לרחשי ליבו של בנה, מבינה שהוא התאהב בפלר והיא וג'וליאן מטכסים עצה להרחיק אותו מפלר.
בתקופה הזו פלר לא כותבת לו אך ג'ון אינו שוכח אותה ואת אהבתו והוא מקצר את שהייתם בספרד כדי לחזור לאנגליה.סומס, מודאג מהטיפול בירושה שלו.
ג'ון שזרעי האיבה נשתלו בו ממכתב שהותיר לו אביו טוען שהוא לא מוותר על אהבתם אך ניכר כי הוא החל להישחף רחוק מפלר.פלר מבקשת מאביה סומס לעשות מאמץ ולגשת לדבר עם איירין ולשכנע אותה להתיר את הנישואים.
הוא מזמין את איירין לחיות איתו בארה"ב.פלר מתחתנת עם מונט למרות שאינה אוהבת אותו ולמרות שהיא מתגעגעת לג'ון.
This third novel of the Forsyte Saga confirmed it.
and the desire to slow down and savor the remaining moments, not wanting to leave off these characters.However, I thought the novel weakened in the final chapters (or maybe I was just too tired and distracted last night when I was finishing?).
The final chapters seemed melodramatic and sentimental.One of Galsworthy's daring choices, is to make Soames Forsyte the central character of the saga, despite a wide array of vivid characters to choose from.
She is ideal beauty and object of desire and passion throughout the saga.
A happy ending.
Only, it's not really the ending since Galsworthy wrote 2 more trilogies as sequels to the Forsyte Saga.
The whole is called 'The Forsyte Chronicles'.
See  this diagram to see the structure of the chronicles.
This quote from the end of the first trilogy sums up the family's ideology:“To Let”—the Forsyte age and way of life, when a man owned his soul, his investments, and his woman, without check or question.
And now the state had, or would have, his investments, his woman had herself, and God knew who had his soul.
“To Let”—that sane and simple creed!
Сколько людей появляется на этих страницах – это и уже привычные Сомс и Ирэн, Джолион и Аннет, и пока мало знакомые читателю Джон и Флер, старая добрая Уинифрид, новички Профон и Монт, и даже сам Тимоти снисходит до контакта с читателем… Конец истории Сомса и Ирэн, но не конец эпопеи о Форсайтах.
Дочитывая эту часть книги, понимаешь, что Сомс - самый интересный персонаж произведения, и уже не вызывает он каких-то негативных эмоций.Жизнь изменилась, становится быстрее, но прошлое все еще живо, пока живы последние люди, которые помнят старые истории.
Юные сердца так подвержены эмоциям и первому влечению, что готовы смести все преграды, не видят ничего вокруг и не считаются ни с кем.
Sadly, Jon and Fleur Forsyte just do not have as much to offer the reader as their parents and grandparents do in the earlier volumes of The Forsyte Saga. The book goes over and over the relationship, making very slow forward progress. The death of Timothy really does mark the end of the 'proper' family and leaves only Soames as a character of any interest.
4 stars. What a fitting yet melancholy ending to the Forsyte saga! I even felt sorry for Soames by the end...A word of warning -- this novel does NOT stand alone! To be appreciated, or even understood, the previous novels & 'interludes' of the series need to be read first.
4½ stars. What a fitting yet melancholy ending to the Forsyte saga! I even felt sorry for Soames by the end...A word of warning -- this novel does NOT stand alone! To be appreciated, or even understood, the previous novels & 'interludes' of the series need to be read first.

It picks up two decades after the end of "In Chancery," and clashes the two Forsyte branches--Soames and Jolyon/Irene--together when their children, now grown, meet and fall in love.
In some ways, it is hard to sympathize with the deception by the parents to hide the truth from Fleur (Soames' daughter) and Jon (Jolyon and Irene's daughter); obviously it is a society where some things are simply not spoken of, but I think it underestimated Jon and Fleur.
We end, suitably enough, with a long reflective reverie from Soames, that frustrated, lonely, longing man, looking out over modern London from Highgate cemetery, in the course of which he picks up on a phrase first spoken by young Michael Mont: "'To Let'--the Forsyte age and way of life, when a man owned his soul, his investments, and his woman, without check or question.
'To Let'--that sane and simple creed!"Of course, Galsworthy is well aware, and so should Soames be by this time, that that creed was neither sane nor simple.
To Let the third book of The Forsyte Saga opens several years after we last saw the Forsyte family, it is now 1920, and Fleur, Soames’ daughter and Jon, Jolyon and Irene’s son are almost nineteen, and so far have never met.
Since the scandal which resulted in Irene marrying her ex-husband Soames’ cousin Jolyon Forsyte, the two sides of the family have not met.
Fleur and Jon have so far heard no whiff of the events of twenty years earlier; their parents have shielded them from the past, each of them have existed comfortably in the world created for them by their adoring parents.Full review: https://heavenali.wordpress.com/2015/...
Soame's nephew Val Dartie falls in love with young Jolyon's daughter by his second marriage, Holly, and the two second cousins manage to marry and be happy in spite of an initial lack of acceptance by the clan due to their being not only second cousins but also related to parties feuding majorly about Irene's divorce of one and marriage to other cousin.This has the unfortunate consequence of encouraging the other pair of second cousins, Jon and Fleur, in thinking they may make it a success as his sister and her first cousin did.
People we love - or want to control for their own good, as we think - have the mind of their own while the government's eye tirelessly watches our bank's statements and belongings' worth.There is no one to pity or blame.
Jon needs to believe in things; he needs to love people and help them while Fleur's point of view is: "But you can’t help people, Jon; they’re hopeless.
To let the loved one free and to own one's own life as much as it is possible in the world of being tied with ropes of relationship, partnerships, feelings and emotions to all the human beings in one's life.
Now, if only we were born old and grew younger year by year we should understand how things happen, and drop all our cursed intolerance.and Soames Forsyte:And only one thing really troubled him, sitting there — the melancholy craving in his heart — because the sun was like enchantment on his face and on the clouds and on the golden birch leaves, and the wind’s rustle was so gentle, and the yew-tree green so dark, and the sickle of a moon pale in the sky.Ah!
This is the last novel of the family saga of Forsyte.
In this emotional drama of love between fourth generation cousins of Forsyte family, the forbidden Romeo and Juliet like love love between Jon and Fleur is narrated.
The heart break which is caused between a father and daughter and a mother and son opens old wounds and rivalries between Soames and Joylon.
This novel, unlike the earlier two novels, is more tightly woven around this tragic comedy and ends in Soames' melancholic rumination of the burial of Victorianism and his failure to get the beauty and love in spite of his all other possessions.
I liked the book a lot.
Galsworthy has a very, nice evocative touch with nice personality insights.
However, he rushed the ending.
It was not in full scene, but in summary, muting, for me, the emotional impact of changes Fleur and Jon chose.His diction sometimes was archaic, but it usually pleased me.
Here's two passages that especially pleased me.
His mother never made him practice piano tunes he didn't like, "so that he remained eager to convert ten thumbs to eight fingers." He was quite of the opinion that the country should stamp out tuberculosis; but this was not the place.
A family feud which long forgotten is kindled when the fourth generation of the Forsyte meet and fall in love.
The family struggling to let go and put past behind for the sake of their kids leads to twists and turns in the story.
The title itself is irony to the story where people have taken their time to understand it is important to let go to open to new and positive avenues in life.
I was a little disappointed with the story of the third part For the full review of the book: http://ebookreview.blog/2018/09/22/to...
Molto bello anche questo terzo e ultimo capitolo della saga dei Forsyte. Si perdono amore e affetti, ma ciò che più teme un vero Forsyte è la perdita della proprietà, vivere in affitto. Eppure è ciò che succede ai vari personaggi, si affittano mogli per avere un erede, si affittano fidanzati, che poi diventano mariti, per dimenticare il vero amore, si affittano artisti per non accorgersi della propria solitudine, e via così. Soames Forsyte è l’emblema di tutto ciò: una vita dedicata a possedere cose perdendo le persone.
The third and final book of The Forsyte Saga, by now one almost--though by no means completely-- understands the familial relationships without constantly going back to the family tree. Oh poor, property-loving, unsexy Soames, who can't feel or inspire love. I first met him in the 2002 BBC miniseries, played by Damien Lewis, who would go on to find fame and sexiness in Homeland. At any rate, Galsworthy's portrayal of the British upper (though not aristocratic) class before and after WWI is entertaining and his vaguely satiric descriptions are trenchant.
This volume is the resolution of the Forsyte family's domestic trauma detailed in A MAN OF PROPERTY.Enjoyed it immensely but the new generation, as no doubt their parents would attest, cannot hold a candle to the strength and temerity of their elders.The 3 volumes have taken us from 1880s to post-WW I Jazz age. Fashion and technology may change, but family discord outlasts the societal upheavals. Fleur Forsyte is entitled and grasping, but even she is no match for the bond between her father's ex-wife and Irene's son Jon. Familial love trumps infatuation.
This ended much better than I had expected. Somehow Galsworthy managed to wrap up the story in a very satisfactory way, while still leaving some unresolved feelings for the characters. I love that he was able to tell a very compelling story over such a long period and it didn't feel totally overdone by the end.I'm still not interested in the next generation, but the story of Soames and Irene was still as interesting in this last book as it was in the first.
This book, To Let, is the conclusion to the Forsyte Chronicles. This book is mostly about Fleur and Jon, the youngest generation of Forsytes, but it is through this book I can appreciate the complexity of Soames. Soames, by the end of this book, becomes worthy of sympathy. Everything that happened before in this trilogy foreshadows how Fleur's marriage will end -- Like Soames and Irene's -- and Soames will finally appreciate Irene's suffering.
I thoroughly enjoyed this last installment of the first Forsyte trilogy. It started off a little slow for me, but really picked up about 1/4 way through. I find Fleur and Sommes fascinating to watch. Love the Forsytes!!
Another excellent book!The Forsyte family tells the story of history, through individual characters.And the historical theme of this book - true modernity crashes the last fragments of the Victorian age!!
Great Galsworthy!
This is a Penguin Books Ltd edition published 1968
The rest of this trilogy was better.
5 stars.#3 of The Forsyte Chronicles. So worth taking the time to read.
The first two trilogies have interconnecting interludes between each of their two parts...............................................................................................................................................The Forsyte Saga:-The Forsyte Saga was not planned as such but developed over years with sequels coming naturally as they did, and human heart and passion and minds within settings of high society of a Victorian and post Victorian England - chiefly London - and its solid base in property.When it was published it was revolutionary in the theme - a woman is not owned by her husband, and love is not a duty she owes but a bond that is very real however intangible, that cannot be faked.Wednesday, September 10, 2008........................................................................
