https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/147915.A_Storm_of_Swords
Do you remember that bit in the Scream movie where Stu Macher (played by Matthew Lillard), turns to all the other film geeks and sets out the now famed set of rules for surviving a horror film and making it into the sequel?
Despite the numerous sellswords, hedge knights, rogues, assassins, Sers and Lords running about the place in full armour and with more oversized silverware and valerian steel than the kitchen department at John Lewis, no one is more fearsome in the culling stakes than George RR Martin himself.
O.OOkay. You know what time it is (besides 9.00 p.m. on a Tuesday night) - ASoIaF gif reaction time!So, after an extended break after reading A Clash of Kings, it was time to jump into A Storm of Swords. And everything was good.  .. Even the Davos chapters.  Until..    And though slightly spoiled for part of the story, I was entirely unprepared for the feels.  At first I was all, "This book is DEAD TO ME." Then my grief became anger. Then resignation..  And finally determination. Until.. that en
O.OOkay. You know what time it is (besides 9.00 p.m. on a Tuesday night) - ASoIaF gif reaction time!So, after an extended break after reading A Clash of Kings, it was time to jump into A Storm of Swords.
  And everything was good. 
  .. Even the Davos chapters.
  
  Until..
  
  
  
  And though slightly spoiled for part of the story, I was entirely unprepared for the feels.
  
  At first I was all, "This book is DEAD TO ME."
  Then my grief became anger.
  Then resignation..
  
  And finally determination.
  Until.. that ending.
“Night’s King was only a man by light of day...but the night was his to rule.
The war for the iron throne is ongoing but it seems being away from the battle can be just as deadly as fighting in it!
All the action that is happening at the same time to the different characters in different areas is so addictive!
I love seeing how the characters interlink - and I fear for what will happen to them all next!
Bring on A Feast for Crows!“We are puppets dancing on the strings of those who came before us, and one day our own children will take up our strings and dance on in our stead.”
At first I couldn't find the motivation, then there were other books I desperately wanted to read.
So this giant of a book had to wait.When I finally picked it up again, I finished it in a week.
While I had a slow start (I really did not want to read about the Red Wedding), I didn't want to put it down again.
The plot thickened and every single chapter was intruiging, even those of the less interesting characters.Here's the list of POV's from what I liked most to what I enjoyed the least:DaenerysTyrionSansaJonAryaJaimeBranSamwellDavosCatelynFind more of my books on Instagram
Ne znam kako je sa ostalim čitaocima Martinovog serijala, ali ja nikako ne mogu da izbacim iz glave poređenje Martinovog Sema i Tolkinovog Sema - nekako mi se čini da ima tu poprilično sličnosti: verni saputnik jednog od glavnih junaka, bucko koji nije u prvom planu, a ipak od njega zavisi dosta toga, preplašeni učesnik bitnih događaja koji ipak pronalazi svoju hrabrost u ključnim momentima...I jako mi je zanimljivo da pratim tok misli lika koji nije sav hrabrica i junačina nego je preplašen i ne zna šta će sa sobom.S druge strane moram da priznam da mi Stanis i nije baš najjasniji....tačnije Stanis je jedini lik do sada u pogledu koga sam potpuno ravnodušna.
I just finished ASOS a moment ago, and said motherfucking heart is beating some serious drum and bass.
I often do and recently have read books to love, admire, and learn from.
I have NO IDEA what you're going to do or where you're going to take me next - all bets are off, because your world is a real one, where heroes get savaged and baddies prevail and shit happens that leaves you staring at the heavens and thinking WHAT DOES IT ALL MEAN?You're MAD.
A mad marvellous genius and I love you.
The first half, A Storm of Swords: Steel and Snow, just wasn't strong enough to stand on its own.
But that's okay as the second half more than makes up for it.
Not just secondary characters either, but people we thought were going to be key players in The Game.A number of characters get built out a lot more as well.
I strongly suggest reading them back to back, and thinking of them as one logical book, if you're going to buy them individually.
Its publication was preceded by a novella called Path of the Dragon, which collects some of the Daenerys Targaryen chapters from the novel into a single book.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: از دوازدههم تا بیست و هشتم ماه می سال 2015 میلادیعنوان: طوفان شمشیرها کتاب دوم از جلد 3 (نغمه آتش و یخ، #3)؛ نویسنده: جورج آر.
مارتین؛ مترجم: رویا خادم الرضا؛ مشخصات نشر: تهران، ویدا، 1393، در 789 ص، و دو ص نقشه، شابک: 9786002910752؛طوفان شمشیرها سومین کتاب از مجموعه رمان فانتزی حماسی: ترانه یخ و آتش، اثر نویسنده آمریکایی: جرج آر.
در حال حاضر این کتاب طولانی‌ترین کتاب مجموعه است.
چکیده: داستان طوفان شمشیرها کمی پیش از داستان کتاب پیشین است.
But I still love him and don't really feel bad for (view spoiler)[Tywin or Shae.
Petyr is a total pervert though and every second that he's around Sansa makes me freak out.ARYA: I...I feel awful about saying this but as MUCH as I love Arya's attitude and epicness, her chapters often get boring.
I do like her character development and my heart keeps breaking every time she's sooo cloooose to being saved and then SO FAR.
And I LOVE Tyrion a lot, and Jon so so much.
My favourite book of the series so far!
I will not ruin it for anybody, but this book turned me into an emotional reck in the best and worse possible ways.
It gave me moments were I found myself jumping round like a child who actually did get a pony for christmas, moments when I bawled like a baby and finally, moments when I was yelling my head off, threatening to never read another page and swearing like a banshee.
This series needs to form part of everyone's life - it is so unpredictable and engrossing that it has to be up there with the greats.
I have slowly been making my way through the Song of Ice and Fire series and this has been my favourite of what I have read so far.
In case you are wondering I have watched all of the TV show so I do know what is going to happen in the books before I read them but this doesn’t really bother me.
I won’t go into detail about the plot of this book as I wouldn’t want to spoil it for anyone but I would definitely recommend to anyone who hasn’t yet picked up the series.
All of my favourites characters were doing awesome things in this book and I simply loved it!
My favourite things about this book:1) Jon Snow's every move (the light of my heart)2) Jaime's journey to discover morals, honor and true loveNow, I can't tell you what it was about this installment that finally did it.
1 was no better, but with nothing happening for the first 300 pages and some of the chaos bleeding through from ACoK it wasn't exactly thrilling, it was mostly just a mess of characters and plots and whatnot.
I think part 2 is a lot better than part 1. I absolutely love this book. Alhamdulillah.There is an enormous twist in this book. This book is one of my favourite. Alhamdulillah.
But boy, the second part was like 10 stars!Like I said there are a lot of weddings described in this book and I personally hate weddings but these were really something!
I think I have said that before, but I really love the fact that each chapter is told through a different character each time so we get a deeper insight into our beloved heroes while viewing the events from their perspective!
Jaime appears to be a major character now, there's a lot being narrated from his point of view, but if I am not mistaken this is Arya's book!
DAMN GOOD!! Nothing is predictable, no main character is safe. Starks bled heavily. Lannisters bled. Winter is coming for everyone. Valar morghulis.
Dieser Teil hat mir bisher bei weitem am besten gefallen! Es ist so unfassbar viel passiert und ich bin aus dem Staunen gar nicht rausgekommen. Absolut geil!
Possibly the most devastating, awesome, exciting and surprising instalment yet, and I'm starting to get a sneaking suspicion that the real story is only just starting...If you'd told me during the first book that by this point I would be pinning all of my hopes on The Hound and Jaime freaking Lannister, of all people, I'd have thought you were certifiable.
But that would appear to be where we are at the moment, with Jaime in particular evolving into being one of the more interesting characters.Containing a ton of gruesome deaths it's now quite clear that absolutely no character is safe in this story, and I'm really enjoying being taken along on the remaining characters stories.
Can't wait to find out...
Bu seride en sevdiğim şey hiçbir karakterin öylesine yaratılmamış olması. Nefret edin veya sevin. Karşılaştığımız her karakter, göz ucuyla bile karşımıza çıkan her karakter bir süre sonra tekrar karşımıza çıkıyor ve olay akışını değiştirebiliyorlar. Olay örgüsüne değinmek bile istemiyorum, nereye kadar övebilirim ki? Gerçekten büyüleyici. Buraya kadar zaten okumuştum bundan sonra okuyacaklarım benim için de yeni olacak. Ama ilk kez okuyormuşum gibi şaşırdığım şeyler oldu ve verilen o ince detayları her şeyi kavradıktan sonra daha net fark etmek hayranlığımı artırdı. Gözlerimizin önünde bir dünya inşa ediliyor ve buna kayıtsız kalan insanlar var. Ne acı.
Even though I knew what was going to happen, I was SO not prepared for any of this. This installment is by far my favourite so far!
Το καλύτερο βιβλίο της σειράς μέχρι στιγμής!(Νομίζω ότι ο Martin θέλει να με κάνει να αντιπαθήσω την πλοκή της τηλεοπτικής σειράς :( )
"Always keep your foes confused. If they are never certain who you are or what you want, they cannot know what you are like to do next." This book is pure genius. It made me wince in pain when a few of my favourite characters were murdered. It made me dizzy with joy when my most despised and hated character was murdered. And it made me feel all the little things in between during the whole span of A Storm of Swords. "Weddings have become more perilous than battles, it would seem." I loved the w
I loved the way A Storm of Swords: Blood and Gold surprised me.
I love the fact that even though so many people die it still hurts.
All men must die.One thing that I absolutely loved about this book was the character development!
I started liking Jaime more and more as I continued reading.
I love the way treachery is portrayed in the book.
The reader is shown the intricate and delicate ways people can play the Game of Thrones.
In A Storm of Swords I got a better insight on the way people try to manipulate and control each other to win the Game of Thrones.
Άντε τώρα να γράψω κριτική μετά από αυτό που διάβασα.Μακράν το ποιο συγκλονιστικό βιβλίο της ιστορίας για τις σοκαριστικές, εικονικές και ενθουσιώδεις στιγμές που χαρίζει στον αναγνώστη.Τα λόγια είναι περιττά.(view spoiler)[ΨΟΦΟΣ ΣΤΟΥΣ ΛΑΝΙΣΤΕΡΨΟΦΟΣ ΣΤΟΥΣ ΦΡΕΙΨΟΦΟΣ ΣΤΟΥΣ ΜΠΟΛΤΟΝΨΟΦΟΣ ΚΑΙ ΣΤΗΝ ΚΟΚΚΙΝΗ (hide spoiler)]
Serinin şimdiye kadar okuduğum en iyi kısmıydı. Hikayeyi efsane toplamaya başladı yazar. Gittikçe daha çok sevmeye başladım seriyi, umarım böyle devam eder. 8,5/10
Without the distraction of the TV show I’ve promised myself to finally catch up with the rest of A S
Just imagine.Every character has grown a lot but how long would they live, we don’t know.
Simply can’t explain my bloody love for this book.
The secrets revealed, the broken trust and backstabbing, you will feel everything in your gut.
You couldn’t guess a single bloody thing, your guess will always go into a poof.
I was amused by his wits.Cersei: I HATE HER BLOODY GUTS.
I’m waiting for Dany to come to Westeros.
I was scoffing when some people believed that a single dragon could win the bloody war.
Thousands of stars for this book  I can say that A Storm of Swords is the best book in the series so far !
I loved the second part way more because of the things that happened in it, a lot of deaths and actions that I can't lie but love and get angry.
What happened in this book is actually two seasons from the TV show.
I can't wait to finish the books and excited for the 6th book ❤️❤️Booklovers, you should read this series if you're so fond of fantasy stories.
*4.5 stars*SO MANY PLOT TWISTS, I can't.
Varys’i sadece bu bölümlerde görebiliyoruz ama bence hakkında ayrı bir kitap yazılması gereken çok önemli bir karakter ya da en azından onun bakış açısından bir-iki bölüm aralara serpiştirilebilir ama baktığıma göre sonraki iki kitapta da böyle bölümler yok.
Daha önce sadece isim olarak duyduğum ve dizide de hiç görmediğimiz bir karakter olduğu için içimde aşırı bir merak uyandırdı.
Genel olarak güzeldi, hareketliydi ve birçok karakter için dönüm noktası olan bir kitaptı.
Ufukta ne yeni bir kitap ne de yeni bir sezon olmadığı için her ne kadar bir anda okuyup bitirmek istesem de yavaş yavaş ilerlemem daha iyi olacak gibi duruyor.
Rating: 5/5This book was absolutely amazing.
Granted it's the second part of book 3 so it was expected to have more action and shocking moments than the first part.
So many deaths, so many twists and turns, so many freaky and unexpected things.
I loved this.
I've also watched the third season along side reading this.
This one moves the story even further ahead, I am guessing midway through the 4th season for some characters.
I really want to see what will happen next, but I don't know when I'll pick up the next.
It takes forever to read this series.
Einfach WUNDERBAR!!!
