https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/125502.What_I_Loved
At times I felt I was reading, not a novel, but a memoir, the actual life story of an aging art historian and university professor looking back on who and what had figured prominently in his life---what he had loved.
The art world is a large part of this story and descriptions of various works of art can occasionally become long, somewhat rambling sidetracks.
Hustvedt also portrays the less savory side of the art world but this is once again through those many aspects of "what I loved."And supporting all of the story is masterful prose and excellent timing of presentation.
Beautifully written and a realistic insight into the difficulties of parenthood and relationships.A story with interesting and intelligent character development.
I enjoyed watching the characters grow and how the author developed and shaped the characters over a number of years.
This really is a study of relationships and how they develop between husbands and wives, family and friends over the course of a number of years and how love, and loss can change the course of friendships.I enjoyed the read as it is very well written, the plot is dark in places and there twist and turns in the second half of the novel to keep the reader interested..
Superbly written…a very enjoyable novel that left me feeling introspective.
The characters were so beautifully portrayed…so authentic that I hated to say goodbye.
The narrator is Leo, an art historian who forms a long-lasting friendship with the painter, Bill Wechsler.
These two men and their families remain friends for over 25 years.
It’s a story filled with passionate love affairs as well as tragic loss, grief and heartbreak.
Leo’s story touched me deeply because his account and his destiny as he aged rang so true to life for me.
I never wanted this novel to end.
Leo Hertzberg, el observador que atisba a través del agujero de su propia vida, reordena una y otra vez los preciosos objetos que atesora en un cajón, frutos y huellas de una existencia que se le escapa entre los dedos, tratando de conjugar a través del lenguaje el torrente de la memoria que los acompaña.
Porque el que recuerda renuncia a la verdad: ‘ya no somos actores de la historia sino espectadores que se han decidido a hablar.’ El tiempo no es circular, tampoco transita en línea recta; deambula errante entre espejos rotos y frágiles cofres de cristal.
This book had been knocking around the house for a while, but I hadn't really been interested in reading it, due to a combination of factors but primarily because a) the cover didn't interest me and b) one of the most prominent quotes on the jacket describes it as 'a love story'.
As I've said before, while I always appreciate well-written relationships/romances in books, defining something purely as a love story is pretty much a surefire way to put me off.
It evokes the feeling of losing something or someone either physically like a dead father or emotionally like an ex-lover.
However, when death opens Book 2, there is just no turning back: Hustvedt made sure that surprises after surprises, revelations after revelations pepper the rest of that book and when another death closed it, I could not help but admire her for knowing her craft that is comparable or even better than her husband’s – Paul Auster.
Like a love offering: Hustvedt seems to be saying ”this one’s for you, Paul!”.
But in common with Colwin's book, this is a story of place and time, that could only have happened in New York City in the last part of the 1900's.The painting Leo bought hangs in his apartment and is a touchstone for his telling of the story.
On the macro level, we learn of the experimental art scene in New York at this time; the world of art, artists, dealers and deals in the budding SoHo and Bowery artist enclave; the world of academia, research and book-writing; of love, hate, morality and amorality, life and death.
Lui non fa nulla per imporsi nella vita degli altri, ma questa peculiarità gli deriva dal fatto stesso di esistere e di essere in una determinata maniera.
Tutti i personaggi del romanzo ruotano intorno a ciò che Bill ha costruito nella sua breve vita, a partire dalla voce narrante, lo storico dell’arte Leo Hertzberg.
Una vena di pazzia attraversa la sua famiglia, dal fratello Dan al figlio Mark, e sembra che solo lui riesca a salvarsi, forse grazie proprio alla catarsi artistica.
Le vicende che travolgono entrambe le famiglie portano a l’evoluzione di tutto il romanzo , la preoccupazione per il figlio Mark, causando forse la fine prematura di Bill .
”Aquilo Que Eu Amava” evoca diferentes sentimentos e diferentes interpretações, num prelúdio para profusas reflexões, numa ambiciosa partilha entre a “história” e a leitura “individual” – mas há um “símbolo” que gostaria de individualizar: a gaveta de Leo – uma pequena gaveta na sua secretária, onde vai acumulando “objectos” do seu passado, ”Aquele era um local onde eu conservava tudo aquilo cuja falta sentia.
Wow!
Because I've been engaged in a book club with three others--one who likes fiction, one who likes it with reservations, and a third who views it with trepidation--I've been thinking about why I like fiction so much.
Modern fiction, classic fiction, whatever--what always draws me is the way human nature is portrayed.
What does it mean to be human?
The protagonists talk about friendship, loss, lust, grief, regret, art, and lies; they are betrayed and left behind and injured just as they are loved and buoyed and nurtured.
On every page I found something to love, something tender, bold, or poignant.
Evidently a connoisseur and an admirer, I think she wants to highlight through her imaginary world that there is a difference between real art and what people take for art nowadays: Teddy Giles, “a wanna-be artist” whose portrait is insisted upon in the second half of the book, bases all his projects on people’s reactions to violence and to matters that are only meant to shock, rather than have an artistic value.
The viewer cannot know the reason, but he can ask himself how it got there and doubt is therefore created again.Going through the book, we immerse ourselves completely in the stories and the everyday life of the characters: Leo and Erica and their son Matt; Bill and Lucille and then Bill and Violet and Mark.
Having discovered him through the joys of the 1001 books list, I've now read almost everything he ever wrote and just when I was getting to the end of his stuff and wondering how I could get my hands on more Paul Auster stuff (short of holding a gun to his head and forcing him to write faster), along comes the literary off-shoot of Auster that is Siri Hustvedt.
Beyond the day to day storyline, Goya was the real star of this book whether he was meant to be or not.
Everyone in the book has a little bit of Goya in him.
The second half of What I Loved might have made an enjoyably-erudite ‘thinking man’s’ thriller set in the art world of the ‘80s and ‘90s, but the meandering first half – about affluent Manhattanites and their dull, pretentious lives – makes the book, as a whole, perhaps admirable, but hard to like.One often comes across perfectly entertaining novels that seem to have trouble getting started.
What I Loved reads like this, but it begins with two hundred pages of backstory.
The sections of the novel that revolve around artwork and artists are clearly well-researched, and Hustvedt extracts beautiful and affecting symbols from the art that surrounds her characters.
This 2003 novel could just as well have been titled “What I Lost,” which might be truer to its elegiac tone.
With themes of modern art, perspective, memory, separation and varieties of mental illness, it asks to what extent we can ever know other people or use replacements to fill the gaps left by who and what is missing.
My favorite lines about love were “I often thought of our marriage as one long conversation” and “love thrives on a certain kind of distance … it requires an awed separateness to continue.”Reviewed with five other “love” titles for a Valentine’s-themed post on my blog, Bookish Beck.
I would appreciate a sequel, because Hustvedt has given so much intricacy to her characters; it would be wonderful to find out what happens to them.
She mixes art, both modern and classical, into a novel with rich themes such as art's immortal quality juxtaposed with our mortal inevitability.
The inevitable tragedies in this book are honest, not at all contrived, part of the way life really happens.
But the way she examines the tragedies makes this not only a novel about art but more so, it makes it a novel that is itself a work of art.
Ao optar por este caminho, Hustvedt abriu para si uma via mais fácil de apresentação das introspeções do principal interveniente nos eventos relatados, explicando também a riqueza do relato psicológico e ao mesmo tempo a densidade analítica apresentadas pela obra.Tive apenas um pequeno apontamento que me desgostou, o modo como se constrói o suspense à volta de Mark, nomeadamente o arrastar da revelação do seu carácter, camaleónico, ainda que tenha de aceitar que o carácter escolhido para o mesmo era tudo menos fácil de definir ou fechar em meia-dúzia de páginas.
I consider this book to be truly wonderful. My fellow London commuters clearly thought I was crazy as I cried over passages on a number of trains. I think the past tense in the title succinctly communicates the loss dealt with by Hustvedt.I didn't initially like the descriptions of the art installations, and had difficulty visualising them. As I progressed through the novel I began to enjoy them more.
"São estranhos os caminhos que a vida percorre, o modo como a vida muda e deambula, o modo como uma coisa se transforma noutra.""... continua à procura da doença que anda no ar, do Zeitgeist que murmura às sua vítimas: grita, deixa que a fome te corroa, come, mata. Procura as ideias-ventos que assolam as mentes das pessoas e que, depois, se transformam em cicatrizes na paisagem."
Received as a Birthday Gift. *sighs*Excited!
Angoissant, angoissant, angoissant... Jamais lu un roman pareil sur la folie, un sentiment très désagréable pendant les cinquante dernières pages. Plein de vérité glaçante. Je garderai un mauvais souvenir de cette angoisse dans laquelle il m’a plongée et de cet univers impur.
There is so much in this book - add adolescence, a superb description that reflects what we have all been through.
Through it all your thoughts run non-stop.Another thought about this book - love and sex and life are gorgeously intertwined; intellectually, emotionally and beautifully limnedWonderfully intriguing characters.
He's funny, but you know he can't help the way he looks.""But he talks funny too, Dad." Matt stopped talking and I waited.
"Well you're right, Matt" I said.
"Himself," I said.I love the integrity that Hustvedt acknowledges in the young son Matt.Two books - both having 5 stars - can be so very different.
Wow, I loved this.
It's not one of those books that will leave you overall satisfied and happy.
The setting in the New York art scene, the character's professions or the point in life they were at (we follow them from dating to marriage to having children to whatever comes after) wasn't something I could relate to, I felt very close to them.
The characters were amazingly portrayed and always felt like complex, real human beings.
The book was captivating, emotional, haunting, mysterious and more.
I always know I love a book when I want to re-read it immediately.
In this moving story, a man who once wrote a book called "A Brief History of Seeing in Western Painting" but who is now older and is, ironically, losing his eyesight looks back on his life.
Hustvedt’s book plays with these kinds of layers and perceptions.The story focuses on our narrator, Leo Hertzberg, his wife, Erica, their son, Matthew and the family of Bill Weschler.
There is tragedy, there is love and, being Siri Hustvedt, there is art and philosophy.The books consists of three long chapters.
Em Aquilo Que Eu Amava, Siri Hustvedt dá voz a uma personagem masculina, Leo Hertzberg, o narrador desta história que se centra nos relacionamentos familiares e de amizade entre Leo, historiador e crítico de arte, Bill Wechsler, artista plástico, cuja obra desperta o fascínio de Leo, e as mulheres e os filhos de ambos.
Tendo como cenário o meio artístico nova-iorquino, Hustvedt dá corpo a uma trama que se desenrola ao longo de vinte e cinco anos e na qual, para além dos relacionamentos pessoais, intervêm patologias individuais e da sociedade.O livro consta de três partes.
This is a book, like most amazing books, which is about how exhausting and glorious and terrible it is to live. Especially if you are the one who lives. A new favorite. I soak in her prose, whether I planned to or not. More soon.
The lives of their two families become entangled in this story about relationships, love, and loss.Leo, an art historian, is the narrator looking back on the last twenty-five years in a book divided into three sections.
The two families live in the same building, and their young sons, Matthew and Mark, become friends.Part two begins and ends with tragedies.
It was fast-paced and exciting, although a multi-city trip to the Midwest seemed a little over the top.As the title suggests, the older Leo has told us what he had loved--friends, family, art, and intellectual ideas.
It's been a long time since I've thought about characters when I wasn't reading about them.
The story is divided into three parts.
Thinking about it now, it's the mark of a well written and executed story because I realize my resentment was in defense of the characters.
As in our own life story, we want things to be neat, happy and above all fair, especially after intense loss and frightening events.
I'm glad I was unfamiliar with this author (and her husband or any other background details) before I read this book.
It helped to be naive and take the story on it's own.
Though perhaps I shouldn't complain: two great new authors for me in one year is verging on spoiled (Hustvedt, obviously, is one, and the other is Percival Everett, run out and read Erasure right now if you haven't already, it's crazy that you've waited this long.)Thought the second is that I think I maybe like these books about other books and about works of art better than, say, the Blindfold, which really didn't get into that so much.
Thought the third is about Mark, and this is a spoiler, so if you're the kind of reader for whom a book is spoiled by knowing what happens, you may want to look away, though I think, personally, that you're wrong about how a great novel actually works.
La historia es contada por uno de los artistas que conforman ese mundo neoyorquino, llamado Leo Hertzberg, crítico e historiador de arte, esposo de Erica y padre de Matt; amigo de Bill Weschler y de sus sucesivas esposas llamadas Lucille y Violet, éstos son los personajes principales.
La novela se deja leer muy bien, no cabe duda de que Siri Hustevedt tiene un gran talento y una poderosa sensibilidad que nos hace llegar, a través del detalle de las personalidades y de la acción de sus personajes, a tocar puntos profundos del comportamiento humano y nos plantea la fragilidad de la existencia, en especial de todo aquello que amamos.
