https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/243001.The_Book_of_Thoth
The Book of Thoth is as much a manual for using the deck as it is a primary initiation into Hermetic philosophy and mindfulness.
The deck itself, besides working as the elemental and zodiacal symbol association system of popular tradition, functions simultaneously as a Qabalistic Tree of Life and Taoist I Ching.
A fascinating book, exquisitely presented and illustrated, and beautifully written in the drawing room English of a bygone age.
It presents the true tarot, which originated in Ancient Egypt, and survived in Greek and Hindu mythology.
Some say it contains secret and ancient mysteries, others that it is an evil book inspired by Satan; I think it is just the vain ramblings of a sad old man who was unable to connect with the true meaning of life, a meaning that is made available to every newborn child, and to which adults can connect via self-sacrifice and love for our fellows.
Aleister Crowley's and Frieda Harris's (the actual artist behind the paintings) Thoth Deck is the only Tarot deck that might be called intoxicatingly beautiful.
Fortunately, the book is itself Crowley's masterpiece.The Thoth Deck, like any Tarot deck, can simply be picked up by a determined, would-be divinator, and learned and used well.
Even if you don't want to practice like a Ceremonial Magician I must admit that much of the lore invented and added to the mythology of the Tarot ("myth" here in the usual sense of the word: a variety of fiction) from the mid 18th century through the time of The Book of Thoth's publishing is useful.
So the book of Thoth is the companion book to Crowley's Tarot deck, a prognosticator of a rather intense nature, I'm told.
From What I garnered from Crowley's writing style, he tends to be very cryptic.
Crowley exposes the framework for the Tarot based on the Kabbalist "Tree of Life" With this, he translates the Tree homo-morphically onto the Tao te Ching, which I found pretty impressive.
A good example of Crowley's blatant obfuscation may be told anecdotally.
One day when I was in The Hobbit Habit, my late and greatly lamented independent bookshop, a deck of Crowley Tarot cards threw themselves off a shelf at me.
I enjoyed the references to the I Ching, and spent quite a bit of time with both the I Ching and the Tarot, trying to see how they fit together.
I hunted through a lot of mumbo-jumbo in this book to come up with the good bits.
I revere the Ching and admire the Tarot, but Crowley?
This book is so densely esoteric that I was completely unable to comprehend what I was reading.
It is clear that Crowley is deeply versed in many of the primary teachings of his time but he does not present his knowledge in a manner that makes it even remotely accessible.
I had hoped to learn more about the images without having to read every detail about the sephiroth, Frazer's perspective on mythology and religion, etc.
Actually, I probably would have adored all of that if Crowley had made it even remotely palatable or comprehendible.
There is nothing short about this essay. Interesting ideas, some very crazy ideas as well. If you are intested in the connection between tarot, Jewish mysticism and the occult then its an informative read, although not an easy read.
An essential companion to the Thoth tarot deck, it is the most complete, lucid, helpful manual to the tarot that I have found. However, I myself am starting to lean toward the I Ching for 'divination' purposes.
I would recommend Andrea Green’s book, “Kabbalah & Tarot, a Step-Up Guide for Everyone” as a preparatory read prior to this one, at least.
One might start with using this book as a card guide then exploring the deeper sections as a general understanding of the context is gained.For myself, I did an initial cover to cover read; gleaning as much, if little, as I could.
I took a gamble once, betting my entire life, that if I only had The Book of Thoth as my guide, I could find the way to complete happiness.
Beyond its very PRACTICAL applications, this book is a pleasure to read as a work of art, and as a memoir of a man sincerely trying to understand the ancient mysteries and to make them USEFUL in the modern world.
It is my pleasure to give praise and honor to this man and his works with the divine talents of my word and tongue.
One of the definitive volumes about the tarot and classic Crowley.
There's also some essays which help the reader understand the secrets of the cards further.
He doesn't give up the secrets easily - although if you're familiar with his writings in the "Equinox" and some of his other magickal works, you may grasp some (or most, if you're an adept) of the message.
I don't know that I'd recommend this book to a Crowley beginner - but if you have experience of the tarot and have read a bit more of Uncle A's stuff, this is definitely worth a look.
This book is essential to understanding the basics of the Thoth Tarot. The LWB that comes with the deck is incredibly obtuse and short when compared to the amount of sheer data that each card includes. It’s a obtuse book as well… part of the reason is that it’s old and uses terms to describe things that we use other terms for nowadays.  Another terrific companion to the Thoth Tarot (believe it!) Alan Moore’s graphic novel Absolute Promethea. A huge chunk of the story involves a deep exploration
This book is essential to understanding the basics of the Thoth Tarot.
The LWB that comes with the deck is incredibly obtuse and short when compared to the amount of sheer data that each card includes.
It’s a obtuse book as well… part of the reason is that it’s old and uses terms to describe things that we use other terms for nowadays.
Another terrific companion to the Thoth Tarot (believe it!) Alan Moore’s graphic novel Absolute Promethea.
A huge chunk of the story involves a deep exploration of the Tree of Life through the symbolism of the Thoth Tarot and Crowley.
Crowley, the Tarot, and the occult in general have a really - and I mean, really - distorted image in popular culture.
Consulting Crowley's work on the Tarot and Meditation/Yoga, as well has is reference texts has been tremendously helpful.
If you try some Crowley's exercises and follow some of his suggestions that he provides in this text (as it relates to the Tarot) and his book on Meditation (Book 4, Part 1), you will notice a change.
It's a shame that this thinker is distorted and has such a poor image in culture.
Indispensable. Anyone who studies the Thoth Tarot, or perhaps any tarot, should read this. It really brings out the mythos surrounding each card into full bloom, making a living form of divination that allows and encourages further personal introspection and commentary. The connection with astrology, which is my favorite divination and study, helped me understand and associate the symbols along with planets, colors and numbers.
Absolutely vital (along with The Book of The Law and 777) for using the Thoth Tarot. The Beast can be a bit cryptic at times, but his books are well worth the effort. He gives you a lot of information that Waite holds back. (Waite seems to have scrambled his Tarot a bit for the unwashed masses, too - are his Kings really Princes? There's things on a couple of them that hint at that. RWS is still a great classic deck, but if you want to learn occult Tarot, go with Crowley.)
sooooo much goes into this book. I honestly can't remeber enough details to even give a proper reading with my Crowley cards. VERY interesting and links alllll kinds of mystical and scientific stuff! this book is cool. i like to read tarot cards, but I don't believe in allllll kinds of mystic stuff. i like it like i like poker. Coincidences are neat...
Along with the official tarot cards.
Very difficult to read, as is most of Crowley's writing (unless maybe you're a Thelemite), but it's useful as a reference for the Tarot.
The only Tarot book worth reading, in my none too humble opinion. Gone is all sentiment. You'll find none of the easy to consume prophesies of Rider-Waite. Crowley has covered every esoteric there is to cover in the Book of Thoth. Divination with this book requires study and understanding. It's brilliant.
Simply a beautiful reporduction of the original in hardback. Great quality paper. The book itself is one of Crowley's finest works and despite its age still holds up as an important commentary on the Tarot - not just the Book of Thoth. Well worth the extra cost for this collector's version.
I do not support a lot of Crowley's beliefs and I don't think he was a very admirable person; he was a settler and his work stems from the appropriation of indigenous cultures, but this book is pretty fascinating nonetheless.
Greatest mystic master of all time !
Literally the only way to figure out the deck.
The wildest and most interesting book on tarot.
If you are not at the stage where you can draw out the tree of life from memory than I would not attempt it, b/c the most rewarding aspect of this text is not in the explication of individual cards, but in Crowley's description of their interrelation.
To flip through a Tarot book card by card is something like trying to understand the definition of a single word in a dictionary w/o having mastered the interrelation & meaning of words which have been used to define said word.
since I have yet to find one which permits reversals, as the back of new "Book of Thoth" decks often depicts a Christian cross.
I read this book in my twenties when I was experimenting with dark magic. Dark magic is stupid, tarot cards are ridiculous, and all of this stuff is claptrap. Reading Crowley is more evidence of why white people shouldn't make up religions. Could anything be more soulless than a rich Brit making up stories about Egyptian symbology? Give me Richard Burton any day over Crowley. At least he kept his mysticism to himself.
ah yes, aleister crowley. an intriguing writer and source of much occultist thought- he claimed to be eliphas levi reincarnated. this book accompanied my first pack of tarot cards and continues to fascinate me.
The Esoteric world is one that exists - like it or not.This book is not informative enough for a beginner - I am pleased to have browsed through its pages, but it is far from an interesting read.A bit dull.
The classic book on the tarot, and it covers so many topics such as magic, mysticism, Thelema, divination, Enochian magic, and more. I have read it many times, and I always gain a new insight or idea.Well recommended!
The best Tarot book out there I've come accross. There are things to be aware of, and for my complete review of the Thoth Deck, one should go here.
