https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/803120.Witch_Child
In stark contrast to their puritan neighbors who (as we all know) are sending many a young woman to the gallows for the same thing.I found this new spin on an old favorite topic compelling and engrossing despite the fact that some of the sub characters were a little flat and boring.If I had to choose just one word to describe Witch Child it would be Enchanting.Recommended for anyone who loves witch lore, Early American historical fiction, and/or Native American culture.4 stars from me.
5 Words: Magic, conflict, superstition, new world.This is such a great book, and I've loved it for years.
It's not a high-paced thriller and to be honest not much actually happens, but it is a great, pleasant read, and totally compelling.I love the various settings and all of the conflict which comes with them.This book flirts with fantasy but there's very little outright.
I quite liked the way it was written, it was almost hesitant.
I like it when fiction is presented in such a way that it could be real.
I actually suggest getting a copy of the book on cd so you can hear the wonderful Jennifer Ehle (who played Elizabeth Bennett in the A&E version of Pride and Prejudice) reading the story.
It is a little stereotypical, but then again, doesn't history pretty much point out that the Puritans were a bit stodgy and afraid of just about anything that couldn't be explained by the local pastor?
I knew sooner or later that Mary would be considered a witch and probably hunted down by her townsfolk, but to have it almost exactly like many other stories?
This wonderful historical novel for teenagers begins: ‘I am Mary.
It is a tragic and powerful tale, which begins when Mary’s grandmother is arrested and tortured by witch-finders and then hanged in the town square.
Mary is rescued by a rich woman who she suspects may be her real mother, and sent to join a group of Puritans fleeing to the New World.
However, the Puritans are stern and narrow-minded and quick to blame any misfortune on witchcraft.
Mary finds herself in increasing danger as the party lands in Salem, Massachusetts.
A simple yet powerful tale that explores the nature of magic and superstition, faith and cruelty.
This book was just as good as it was the first time I read it.
Witch Child is a really good story, one about how people fear what they don't understand. It's bad enough that the main character's grandmother was hanged after she was accused of being a witch, but now Mary has to keep her own magical powers a secret, lest she be sent to death herself.
The Salem Witch trials are studied in classes to this day, and the events that took place still haunt many people.
This novel does not focus directly or bluntly state the events of the Salem Witch Trials, but is obviously focused in that central time period.
This unique focus on that specific literary element really intrigued me; I don't think this book would be the same if alternate literary devices had been demonstrated to portray the overall theme of hardships of witch craft.Additionally, the point of view of this novel played an essential role in portraying the message Rees intended.
There were so many amazing characters, and they all went together to form a brilliant, realistic world.The thing I liked most about this book was the history behind it.
(I’d just like to point out that I didn’t actually get that from the book, it’s just a weird piece of information that I’ve remembered, for some reason or another.) And the Native American Indian history and beliefs intrigued me too: how the settlers forced them out, their ideas on spirits, the way they live.
to make you think, to wonder...Overall, Witch Child was a brilliantly written story with authentic, unique characters and an amazing plot.
I don’t know why, it just was the story that engrossed me into the book.
You all should read this book.
With the popularity of vampires and Harry Potter, children will love the supernatural aspect of this book.
Teachers will love the historical facts and situations interwoven into the story.
The reader sees how she deals with each situation, revealing details about Mary’s true nature.
I also liked the fact that the book is a diary, but worked as a novel.
I liked the fact that dates and events coincided and made sense with the historical facts.Witch child is a great way to intertwine fiction and history.
A lot of potential and good writing style, but ultimately just another boring, archetypal historical fiction.
When I was in my preteen stage, I went through a historical fiction stage, and I read countless books about witch hunts.
Almost all of them share some major traits: a main character who is a misfit, usually because she's particularly unreligious, and a boring beginning.
Unfortunately, this book doesn't break that mold.
Rees breaks no boundaries with her sometimes-boring plotting.
Besides the unoriginality, this book fails due to bad plotting.
This book does do some good things.
Celia Rees' prose flows very nicely, making even the boring bits easy to read.
Dear Celia ReesI think it’s cool how the book ended.
I thought it was unfair how even though she came to the New World, she was recognized as a witch still.
The people in the new world hated witches more than in England, thus making Mary have to be very careful.
I didn’t understand why the other girls in town hated Mary so much.
In the end when the girls said that Mary possessed them and when they tried to make it seem like she left the “witch items” in the forest was very insane.
Se avete una nipote, un nipote, un cugino, il figlio di amici di famiglia, la sorellina e volete regalare un libro, eccolo qua, servito su un piatto d'argento, 'Il viaggio della strega bambina'.Semplice, ma non banale, ambientato nella America del 1600 invasa dai nuovi coloni puritani che, partendo giudicati dall'Inghilterra, arrivano nel Nuovo Mondo pronti a giudicare a loro volta, un nuovo mondo di indigeni, ma anche il loro stesso sangue, accusandolo di stregoneria.Un libro sui pregiudizi, sul razzismo, sull'ingiustizia del fanatismo religioso. Consigliato per bambini che volessero avvicinarsi a questi temi.
🐺🌗🔮"Witch Child had been on my shelf for over a year until I finally picked it up and decided to read it. It’s a story about a girl named Mary that is a witch and the book is written in the format of her secret diary. It’s set in the 17th century where women were burned or hanged without any trials for the most simple suspicions of them being witches." (...)👉 Read more of my review on my blog post - https://nomuhjournal.wordpress.com/20...
I don't think I was really in the mood for this. It's a fairly straightforward historical fiction, with a fairly standard frame story of a found diary type deal. It's very easy to read; definitely aimed at young adults, if not at kids. Probably that's part of it -- it was so easy there was nothing to hold onto. The set-up is interesting enough, and for what it is, it's well-written, but there wasn't enough substance for me.
Tairique Robinson This book was one of the most boring books I evEr read in my life. From cover to cover a bunch of nonsense. It was like any other book you would find in a book store. This book should not ever be handed out again. Thats all i have to say.BORING!!
Firstly, I was immediately drawn in by the cover.
With regards to the premise and the style of writing, this book contains diary entries written by Mary, the granddaughter of a witch, around 1659-1660.
It is regarded as a children's book, being shortlisted for the Guardian Children's Fiction prize in 2001, but I think it would definitely be suitable for a teenage or even adult audience also.
I am finding it difficult to write a review for this book, as I honestly cannot fault it in any way.
This is a particularly compelling example of historical fiction.
Mary Newbury's story begins in Cromwellian England, and the action begins in the first chapter when Mary's grandmother is hanged for practising witchcraft.
Mary is whisked away by a mysterious woman, and then given into the care of some Puritans who are sailing for the New World.
Before long, though, whispers that she is a witch begin to undermine her tentative place in this new community.
Although Rees writes for young adults, this book has the sophistication to appeal to adult readers as well.
One of the things I was really looking forward to about this vacation is all the time in the car to read.
I didn't bring a single book that I wanted to read.
At the time I packed, I was tired and I grabbed really light reading.
When it came time to read, I really wanted a story, you know?
One of the things Jeffrey and I always do in a new city is go to the art museum and seek out good used bookstores.
The story is another version of The Crucible and the Salem Witch Trials.
For one thing, she really is a witch.

Living within a puritan settlement, Mary is however once again the target of hatred and persecution.
Unfortunately, the story is focusing a lot on her travel over sea and on the settlement of the group of puritans.
After having read the reviews of the second installment of this series - which is supposed to wrap up the fate of Mary - I am however unsure if I am going to give the book a try.
I guess that the little hints I got by reading the blurb and the reviews gave me all the information I wanted to have.
I suoi compagni di viaggio sono paradossalmente esponenti della stessa religione che ha rovinato la sua vita: la dittatura di Cromwell è agli sgoccioli, e il figlio del re assassinato dai puritani tornerà nel paese da un momento all'altro.
Il lettore vorrebbe sapere qualcosa di più, su cosa basi questa convinzione, dato che hai visto tua madre una volta e - con una rapidità strabiliante, potevamo non inventare il test del DNA - hai capito chi era grazie al colore dei suoi occhi?La frase che compare in copertina per spronare il lettore impaurito all'acquisto recita: "Un romanzo scritto con intelligenza, uno stile raffinato, un ritmo incalzante, ricostruisce magistralmente gli aspetti psicologici e storici della caccia alle streghe" (The Guardian).
3.6279 stars They did not want her drowning, because that would deprive the people of a hanging. Witch Child is presented as a collection of found journal entries written by Mary Newbury between March 1659 and October 1660. Mary comes from a family of witches and therefore defines herself as a witch (even though she doesn’t really practice much). After Mary’s grandmother is hanged she must flee to avoid the same fate. She boards a ship to the New World where she hopes to leave behind her witchy
Mary comes from a family of witches and therefore defines herself as a witch (even though she doesn’t really practice much).
After Mary’s grandmother is hanged she must flee to avoid the same fate.
I love stories of historical witches, and I have an interest in 17C America, so I was like a pig in muck with this.
You’re welcome.) I really enjoyed going on the journey with Mary.
It’s really a coming of age story.
Because we are all really smart, we all know when we read a story about historical witches what is going to happen and unfortunately, this doesn’t break the mould.
Un libro per ragazzi molto particolare, che, purtroppo, riesce a sopravvivere solo in parte alle aspettative che la trama così originale e differente crea, principalmente perché non si dimostra pienamente in grado di sviluppare in modo adatto tutti gli spunti narrativi che offre.
Le premesse, quelle del viaggio di crescita e delle avventure di una giovane strega in un epoca storica fatta di persecuzioni e superstizioni, sono estremamente interessanti, così come, durante il proseguire della narrazione, tutti gli accenni che vengono fatti alla pratica magica, alla caccia alle streghe, alle tradizioni indiane quando la nostra protagonista raggiunge il Nuovo Mondo.
Plot: This is the story of Mary a British teenager living in the time of the restoration of the monarchy.After he grandmother is accuse of witchcraft who is sent to live in the American colony of Salem.
Although the first 100 pages is fast paced, the documentation of the journeys does get a little bit repetitive and I would have preferred to know more about Mary and her Grandmother's life in England.
Who would I recommend this book to: Everyone who enjoys YA novels with a historical setting or are interested in Salem and the Puritans vs Witchcraft topic and the persecution of women during this time.
After watching the witch trial of her grandmother, Mary escapes the prejudice of England and sets sail for America.
These questions are for you to find out as you read her journal.This story reads very much like a journal would.
This story made me think about what my life would have been like if I was born at this time.
Not exactly a great point for women back then.3.
Didn't you know that we only dance when the devil has taken over our bodies.5.
I would have failed the witch trial for sure.
I don't like other people telling me what to do.7.
Subito dopo viene aiutata da una giovane e graziosa donna che organizza la sua partenza verso il Nuovo Mondo insieme a un gruppo di puritani in fuga dall'Inghilterra.Non aspettatevi un libro fantasy o horror sulle streghe.
Mary è però una ragazza forte, e quando si rende conto che la sua unica speranza è il viaggio verso l'Inghilterra, travestita da puritana, fa di tutto per amalgamarsi al gruppo e crearsi una nuova vita.Il libro parte lentamente, con la descrizione del lungo viaggio verso il Nuovo Mondo e le prime peripezie dei coloni, per poi prendere ritmo dalla metà in poi.
After her grandmother is killed for supposedly being a witch, Mary is sent to America to assume a new identity and sever all ties with her past, ties which may get her killed.
She takes up with a colony of Puritans traveling to the New World, and soon finds a place among them.
But she also finds herself the center of jealousies and scandals that will raise the question of witchcraft again, making her safety in the new world as questionable as it was in the old.I was caught up in this story from the very beginning.
Now, she's gone, and Mary is alone in the world, on the run from the witch hunters.A mysterious benefactor comes to Mary's aid, telling her that she must set sail for the American colonies with a tight knit community of Puritans.
When their band rejoins the others in their community who have gone before them, Mary finds herself an untrusted newcomer, and has to guard herself carefully from those who would not "suffer a witch to live."But how can she hide her talents when they're essential to life in this strange new land?
The subject didn't come into focus until you really got to know the characters, especially Mary.
I have always enjoyed novels written in journal entries, and Celia Rees pulled it off magnificently!
Many of the entries were so mellow, Mary writes about her travels for a large portion of the book, but the writing style was so lovely that it swept me along like poetry.The characters are quite fascinating, and the superstition and ignorance described in this book very realistic.
It is 1659 in England and Mary is an orhpan who lives with her grandmother on the edge of a forest.
That is until the people of the town come for her grandmother to accuse her of being a witch.
Do you know what they did to women that they accused of being a witch?
This is what Mary watched her grandmother endure.
And guess what the people of her little English town thought about the granddaughter of a certified witch?
But guess what, in America she lives among the puritans and they too have their fears of witches and the dark arts.
