https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/444314.Drowned_Ammet
So I try to think like a child when I read her work (it sort of pleases me, the way people are often so snobby about children "not understanding" adult literature -- which I did, on some level at least, from the age of nine -- that perhaps this is something children understand better, and not because it's infantile in any way: it just requires flexibility of brain).
Sometimes it still jars -- like the scene in the storm where suddenly another two people join the ship.There's still something so different about this book to the other books of Jones' that I can think of.
I was only going to give this book 3 stars- it's good, but I'm definitely not crazy about it, and it took me a ridiculously long time to get properly attached to any of the characters. But that ending. It's awesome, and it gets this book an extra star.
This second book in the quartet ratchets up the danger of the North/South conflict, and also brings the gods right out into the open.Mitt is a wholly sympathetic and fascinating character, snappish and sarcastic like so many DWJ characters are, but with a well-tuned moral compass and a vivid inner life.
It's an awkward relationship these three have, and it's very well-written.There are some interesting and disturbing themes in Drowned Ammet, such as the titular practice of throwing images of the gods into the ocean for luck.
and i started not really liking this and definitely not liking Mitt, and then they got together, they talked, they changed, but still not totally and still they carried alot of themselves and i loved it.
I discovered this book at the same time The Crown of Dalemark came out.
Drowned Ammet is by far my favorite of the Dalemark stories.
There are few truly noble characters in this book, and I love it for how realistic and varied they all are.Re-read 12/6/12: Reading all of DWJ's books in order of publication gives me an even greater appreciation for Drowned Ammet.
It remains my favorite of the Dalemark books and one of my favorite DWJ books in general.
Some of DWJ's beautifully descriptive prose in all of her many books happens in Drowned Ammet when she writes of her fictional Holy Islands; she certainly made me want to not only visit but dwell in these fantasy islands.
Her descriptions of sailing, ships and the ocean gave my personal favorite writer about oceans, Richard Henry Dana Jr. a run for his money as well.
A terrifically powerful book in a quirky series that should be better known because it's so good.
She gets inside her characters and explains them from the inside out and puts everything just the way you feel it yourself, if you could get it into words.
Her early books, such as the Dalemark Quartet, are clearly tentative ventures into the territory she would boldly explore later on, with many of her themes noticeable here: children growing themselves up with no help (and often active hindrance) from parents, people not knowing who they are but coming into legacies by trial and fortitude, girls who get properly angry at the way they are treated and do something about it, general Welsh folklore.
Unfortunately after raving about the complexity of Diana Wynne Jones's writing, I found an example of what happens when she doesn't quite get it right.  Drowned Ammet  has some of the same themes that made Cart and Cwidder so much fun, but it lacks the irresistible appeal. The main problem is that DWJ is usually good at POV – and that's where most of the complexity comes from, because she has the ability to make you see through a character's eyes. But she fails to do this for some reason with th
The main problem is that DWJ is usually good at POV – and that's where most of the complexity comes from, because she has the ability to make you see through a character's eyes.
But she fails to do this for some reason with the main character here, Mitt.
As a result he is unsympathetic for most of the book and at the same time he's unsympathetic in a very unconvincing way and his motivations don't even have an internal logic.
The positive side is that the setting of this book is really creatively depicted and there are some nice ideas about religion and faith and the proper use thereof.
Mitt's story - what he realizes he reveals, and what he doesn't - is so well done, and so satisfying.Something I recognized on my recent Dalemark reread (minus The Spellcoats because I don't own that one; I've never appreciated it) is that I appreciate Mitt's story much more in the context of his final arc in The Crown of Dalemark. It's such a rewarding journey, from his choices to his lack of choices to his wonderful limited point of view.
All in all, not Diana's best.
Coincidentally, I had just read The Spellcoats for the first time ...There are two plot threads in Drowned Ammet: one protagonist is Mitt, born in a poor but happy household but getting involved in revolutionary terrorism after his father's departure; the other is Hildrida (Hildy for short), the somewhat spoilt daughter of Earl Hadd's second son, Navis.
Like Dogsbody, this novel features terrorists who aren't wholly reprehensible: it was published at the height of the IRA bombings on the UK mainland, and I wonder what contemporary audiences made of Mitt with his bombs and conspiracies.
I'm giving this three stars because it's Diana Wynne Jones and I can't bear to give her anything less.
We're like those kind of friends who keep in touch only online.
Occasionally.It's kind of an interesting world, I guess?
Not for me.The story doesn't really begin until about 150 pages in, and then the action and plot I had been so desperately waiting for felt rushed and under-explored.
More than once.I'm going to pass on the rest of the series, but I will not let this taint my love for Diana Wynne.
okay. not my fav.
A rollicking adventure tale with an unlikely set of heroes, this book began with a hook that it then took a while to wend its way back around to, so the pacing felt a little weird at times. I really liked the setting, which felt like it had a fair bit of depth, despite the story skimming along over the top for most of the book.
Mitt must find a way to survive the treacherous ocean and bridge the gap between himself and his enemies.Diana Wynne Jones’ Dalemark Quartet is a really big departure from her usual humorous fantasy work, because it’s more on the epic scale of high fantasy than the whimsicality of Howl’s Moving Castle.
Drowned Ammet takes place about a year before the events of Cart & Cwidder, and in the fourth book of the series, both Mitt and Moril will be main characters.
But don’t ask me how I’ve owned 2 of this series’ books for like 7 years but never read the other half of the quartet.
(This one is the second book in published order and chronological order come to think of it).Mainly what I love about this book is the character of Mitt.
(Vague spoilers ahead)I think one of the important lessons in this book is about how parents bring their children up, and that children can eventually make a choice.
However, Diana didn't just put a warning or a lesson in there for young people - that they do not have to follow the direction they may be heading towards.
She also put a lesson in for parents and adults - Mitt doesn't end up where he got to on his own.
Sometimes, it's really tempting to drop a mountain on your father.
Anyway consider this friendly nostalgia; the boat words and assumptions aren't too bad.-I mean like, it's DWJ, it's always a delightful reading experience-the theme of: it's not enough to choose something, you must follow through on the choices made-It is interesting to keep reading her works and finding the commonalities and returning themes; fairytale and fantasy parents come in all flavors but I am interested in DWJ's "self-victimizing mother," who shows up here.Things I didn't care as much about:-I mean, again, it's DWJ- i don't not like this book-it's just that it feels a lot like her early work?
This book, about three children caught up in a feudal system and its revolutionary uprising, is well up to Wynne Jones' standard.
Other reviews have described it as 'darker' because it deals with the kinds of problems that feudalism (like our current system) brings, like underground resistance societies, assassinations, bombs, political hedge-betting and public manipulation.
But because this is Diana Wynne Jones, that's like describing Harry Potter books as being alll about fascism.
This is really the story of resourceful children of misguided parents, figuring out who they are and what they're comfortable standing for.
The main character spends years planning for one thing to happen, but in all that time he never actually thinks about the consequences of what he's about to do.
Over the course of many years!There's a bit of a reveal toward the end of the book, and I found that to be slightly unbelievable as well.
Unless we just really didn't know some of the characters that appear early in the book, which is possible.
But the pieces didn't all quite fit together.I assume she's taking this series to some kind of conclusion, but it's hard to see how it all will fit together.
3.5 stars- How is this considered people's least favourite of the books??
The first part is a lot of tense character and world build-up, yes, but the second half is so good!- Mitt has a very satisfying character arc from impoverished child to cocky, angry revolutionary to a ...
still very angry, but more thoughtful, mature adolescent.- Reluctant friendships developing across class and political lines!
Angry young children caught in a crossfire of larger political forces!
It was interesting to get a picture of Dalemark from a completely different corner of the South.- If it’s about the last quarter of the book, then I can understand.
This was also the first time I read a DWJ protagonist who had any kind of sexist ideas, and it was a little weird, but also interesting to see.
A massive thing I loved was how angry the women were allowed to be.
Angry to be treated like Things, angry to be just bethored without their permission.
This threaded similar topics, but I had harder time relating to this one.
Whatever the case, I'm a little confused as to what I feel - it's alike to how I feel about Witch Week?
Such a good book. I had trouble getting through it because *exam season!!!!* But when I did have time to read it, I enjoyed every word.Diana Wynne Jones never fails to deliver with her middle-grade fantasies. This one does not disappoint. There were twists that caught me by surprise (and generally I'm pretty good at figuring out plot twists before they happen) and that is always amazing. Love it!
This book didn't hold my attention as well as the first novel did. I came into this expecting to follow the same characters, and was slightly disappointed when it did not. I can see how the ties weave together, though, so that's something.I didn't really like the characters in this novel, and I think that's what took me so long to get into it.I am interested to see how all the books conclude.
I can't get enough of Jones' quirky writing. I love her characters, who struggle with both internal and external conflicts, and her plot twists and unapologetic integration of mythology into her stories. The moral lessons are complex and nuanced, because we live in a shadow-filled world and not a black-and-white one.
not as THE BEST as cart and cwidder - the 4th star is for the earthsea echoes - but i'm super happy to see how this plays out!!
The resolution was interesting and the characters do grow, but it didn't quite make up for them being pretty unlikeable and foolish for a lot of the beginning.
such an inventive story with a satisfying ending...
This is the most amazing story with wonderful characters! I thoroughly enjoyed it.
Full of adventure, seen through the eyes of young Mitt.
