https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/600350.Again_Dangerous_Visions
This copy is signed by Harlan Ellison .
Sometimes the worst thing that can happen is to be successful.
Because your next thing has to surpass your first success.
Just ask the guy who came up with the idea of pet rocks.Harlan Ellison probably knows what I am talking about.
Dangerous Visions was a raging success.
So of course there had to be a sequel.But in Again, Dangerous Visions the writers know the score.
That isn't to say there are not some nice tales here.
It just isn't Dangerous Visions.Update: Today I took this off my shelf and looked at the inscription Ellison wrote for me on the title page.
But in the preparation of the second volume, Ellison took on much more than a simple championing role—he became a dangerous vision of himself.But before I get to the real criticism of this volume, let me note that it still contains a couple of the greatest short fiction stories ever published: Ursula K.
Le Guin’s “The Word for World is Forest,” a piece that merges environmentalism and racism in such a talented way that it’s as hard to read it as, Le Guin says in her afterword, it was easy for her to write it; and Joanna Russ’s “When It Changed,” one of the best feminist science fiction stories, posting a world where the men died off and the women did what they had to do to continue, then the ramifications of being “rediscovered” by the rest of humanity.
It's been years since I've read this, and I'm still thinking about it. This really raised some potent and hard-hitting questions about gender roles and life in general. Really wish this had been a whole novel.
Ellison is generous in giving each writer a personally written copious introduction (the most revealing parts of the book, I think) and lots of praise, and affording each writer an afterword at the end of his/her story.
There is one fun bagatelle about the legal implications of cryogenics that reads like droll sci-fi Thackeray, and H.H. Hollis' story about LSD lawyering was also spry, but these do not justify the many many bad stories you will read.
Really, the only reason to read this collection is if you have any kind of fascination with the kinetic and utterly self-involved world of seventies sci-fi, a world that is rather dead now, and which was charming without ever actually being very relevant or producing any stand-out writers.
I have to say that this massive anthology of science fiction novellas and short stories completely blew me away in the early 1970's.
I read this one before the original "Dangerous Visions." Editor/author Harlan Ellison encouraged contributing writers to cut loose with their most daring and provocative ideas.
This book helped to kick off what I would say was the third great era of science fiction in the 1970s.
"Again, Dangerous Visions" was also my introduction to Ursula Le Guin, who wrote "The Word for the World is Forest." I thought this was one of the most amazingly well-written science fiction stories I had ever read.
Now, I know it's been a lot of years, but I have a hard time believing most of these stories were particularly dangerous or compelling even at the time.
And Harlan Ellison drives me absolutely batty with his introductions--there are a lot of sci-fi writers I would love to hear talk about things, but I've never read someone so full of grandiosity and empty promises.I guess the most damning thing I can say is that I don't even remember most of the stories.
This book has stories from several of my favorite authors- so it pains me to say that it was absolutely awful.Harlan Ellison's introductions are snarky, pompous, and condescending; and he wrote several page intros for each one.
I was thinking about reading some of his own books after this, but now I'm not so sure.Everything about this sounds like it was written on panes of acid; and not in a good or fascinating way.
All good authors have throwaway stories....and Ellison has conveniently collected them in one giant volume.I'm sorry, Kurt and Ray; I never thought I would dislike- so much- anything that you guys were involved in.
Russ says it best in her afterword: stories about societies of women are often either power-mad, sexually insatiable male fantasies or boring, unrealistic utopias. Here Russ is mindful of the fact that women are people, and people build homes and families, make art, make love, get drunk and fight on Saturday night, piss off their neighbors, shelve their dreams to pay the bills, and every other activity on the spectrum of human possibility. And that human texture fuels a very interesting first contact story about two cultures with very different assumptions.
This is quite as good as Harlan Ellison's 1969 anthology, Dangerous Visions.
On the other hand, I may as well just review the anthology itself, and all the work Harlan Ellison has obviously love-hating poured into it.
As Vonnegut would put it, "So it goes." Reading some reviews here and elsewhere, it seems a lot of people were put off by Harlan's "value adding" in form of lengthy introductions and enforcing an afterword for each story, yet I found it brilliant.
There were much much more great and some brilliant so altogether - yes, it is well worth it.But perhaps in three volumes next time?
Science fiction as a genre functions through alienating the reader to some degree and forcing him or her into foreign environments.
In novels, the reader can grow accustomed, while in short stories the alienation is often not surmounted.
Which is to say that the reader should expect a certain amount of strangeness and discomfort in reading science fiction, especially when delving into a collection of stories picked specifically for their ability to ostracize us.
It seemed like Ellison was picking stories on the basis of their odd presentation and hoping this would be received as visionary.
I love short story and novella collections, and dove into this tome expecting interesting tales.
Instead, I ran into one story after another about rape, alien sex, gore, and the like; add to that an introduction to every story, followed by comments afterward, and you have one big mess.
In one introduction, the editor discussed "masturbatory fantasies," which seems an apt description for much of what passes for sci-fi in this book.
If you like lots of deviancy and degradation in your science-fiction, this is the book for you.
If not, there are plenty other story collections out there that focus more on otherworldly wonders than deviancy ...
Courageously written, subtly inverting gender stereotypes and opening up previously unimagined ways of interpersonal relationships. ****“When one culture has the big guns and the other has none, there is a certain predictability about the outcome.”“peremptory” = insisting on immediate attention or obedience, especially in a brusquely imperious way.“This, too, shall pass. All good things must come to an end.Take my life but don't take away the meaning of my life.For-A-While.”
Praise be the genre of science fiction! The stories within are thought-provoking and stand up to scrutiny fifty years after publication. This could have been a more painful reading experience. I'm glad it wasn't.
Maybe the greatest collection of sci fi in one volume of all time.
There's a lot less to like here than in its predecessor.
Impressive idea, but I wish the writing style was a bit more clear.
The narrator explains how he's built a replica Fokker triplane, and has everything as authentic as possible, bar one element.
He then describes a flight where he meets with a lady in a hot air balloon.
The impression one gets is that while flying, he goes back in time, and that the balloonist is from the Confederate era, flying a balloon made of ladies' silk dresses.
Or is she just flying a replica, like he is?Good descriptions and a solid read, this is more of a sketch than a story as such.
(Note to self: Must find more Rocklynne.) Basically about an Earthman who escapes Earth as it destructs, coming to the more highly evolved human outworld colonies, where he believes he’s a celebrity but is actually a pet.“The Word for World is Forest” by Ursula K.
Chad Oliver is serially underrated.“The Funeral” by Kate Wilhelm: Sparse beauty is Wilhelm – the story is the tale of a postapocalyptic society in which a young girl has to attend the funeral of the old woman who created the dystopian system currently in control.
But it’s a lot more annoying because along with his praising of the pieces in the first volume that received awards from fandom, he also raves about a piece that shows up in the back which, after it had been accepted for Again, Dangerous Visions was the target of a bidding war by said publishers.The fact that when I first read this, I checked it out as a minor from a rural library is just icing on the cake.The one story I remember is Piers Anthony’s In the Barn but that probably has as much to do with the effect of the conflicting prurience of the story on my teenage male mind as with the quality of the writing.
No story in “Again, Dangerous Visions” was written later than 1971 so some of the political and social changes to ward off the pessimistic outlooks of these writers was not certain or clear.In one case of synchronicity by two authors, Ursula LeGuin and Joanna Russ their stories seem like they could be companion pieces or different chapters of the same book.
Though some may complain of Ellison’s introductions to the stories, I find his writing a pleasure to read (see my reviews of “The Glass Teat” and “Watching”), providing insight and personal recollections of the writers he includes in the book.
I read Dangerous Visions not too long ago and it was okay.
It took me a long time to read this book, about four months.
I found myself skipping many of these introductions.Aside from Le Guin's novella, there were a few others of note.
Many short stories fade quickly into the fog of my memory, but this one will stay with me for a long time.
Blish's contribution is a real gem.The final story is by James Tiptree, Jr. In his introduction, Ellison said he had saved the best for last: "Tiptree is the man to beat this year.
(Is it me or does he always sound like he's typing with one hand down his pants?)"In Re Glover" by Leonard Tushnet: A humorous story examining the legalities of cryogenics.Well, those are the ones I remember best.Looking back over these, it seems like the better stories are mostly in the first half, but it might be that I had gotten so weary of the avant garde nature of many of the entries that my patience was wearing thinner the further I got.
Still, it undoubtedly would have been a much stronger collection at half its length.
http://nhw.livejournal.com/987086.html[return][return]This is the famous follow-up volume to the even more famous Dangerous Visions; an anthology of 41 stories, mainly by the leading lights of sf as it was in 1972, with vast amounts of prefatory material by editor Harlan Ellison and an afterword from each author, and nice art from Ed Emshwiller introducing each story.[return][return]But what is striking is how unmemorable and self-indulgent most of the stories are (also true of Ellison's long-winded prefaces).
I couldn't in all conscience recommend anyone to spend money on this collection, and I am wondering, heretically, if it is really such a shame that the third volume of the series never appeared.
When I heard that it contained Bradbury and Vonnegut, I knew I had to pick up this bad boy!
If I had time I would have read many more of the awesome stories in here, but since I had to get this inter-library loaned I can't renew it (sad panda).
"The Big Space Fuck" is amazing, it's classic Vonnegut, with dark humor, bad language, satire, and ridiculousness.
Here's just a little taste of the ridiculousness in store for you if you pick it up: "Everything had turned to shit and beer cans and old automobiles and Clorox bottles." Reading this made my night.
A must read for Vonnegut and Bradbury fans!!
This volume follows Dangerous Visions, Ellison's earlier anthology, with the same mission statement: to allow writers to spread their wings and write something too dangerous to be published in the mainstream SF publications of the day.
This volume was even bigger than the first one, containing 46 stories, each preceded by a foreword by the editor and followed by an afterword by the author, meaning you certainly get value for money.There were fewer big names in this volume, suggesting that some of the "dangerous" authors that Ellison selected didn't stick around.
That continues here but I managed to lessen my annoyance by skipping all the intro/post intro/outro/post outro stuff and just read the stories- that totally helped.It is hard to rate this book, and I have to admit I came away a bit disappointed.
Most of the stories didn't have much impact on me, and I am having a hard time, as I write this review, even remembering any that really stood out as anything more than pretty fun stories (surely nothing as good as the "Jack the Ripper" stuff from the first one.
Le Guin's "The Word for World is Forest" and "When it Changed," by Joanna Russ, along with numerous other stories that vary from the relatively straightforward attempts to be controversial to the experimental.
(One of my own personal favorites is Gahan Wilson's ".", a funny little horror short.) The second volume took a long time to produce, and so the impact was perhaps not as great by the time it came out, as many of the concerns that Ellison had about censorship had become outdated by the early Seventies.
A third and final volume was promised but never delivered, which is a story in itself.
