https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/106126.Bone_Vol_2
For years and years, if I didn't like a story (especially a movie) 8 times out of 10, my main criticism was "Lack of consistent tone." Waterworld is the best example of this that I can think of.
At various points it's a grim survival movie, a light-hearted action movie, a gritty post-apocalyptic morality play, or a slapstick farce.
The folks I mentioned above are are masterful storytellers, and they bring us stories with complex tone.
As someone who strives for a consistent tone in his work, it's interesting for me to see how so many odd and seemingly antithetical elements can work together to make a solid story.
This was definitely better than the first book! The characters were more developed. The pictures spoke more for themselves. I enjoyed it!I read this for my Couple's Book Club with my boyfriend for our November read :)
Not a single Ohmygosh in this. I thought that was gonna stick. Oh well...These are so much fun to read. And this one also was a lot more funnier than the first one. It made me laugh out loud so many times. Really looking forward to see where the series is going.
The story continues, this volume, for me, pretty much on equal footing with the one before it, at least in terms of holding my attention.

Another fabulous edition to the graphic novel Bone series! This book is funny, dark, exciting and fantastic all at the same time.
9th book read in 2018.Number 185 out of 669 on my all time book list.Very original stuff
Moving a little away from some of the darker themes in the first book, the Great Cow Race is about Phoney Bone's nefarious plot to bilk the locals by hyping a surprise entrant in the race versus Grandma, the perennial winner, who is portrayed as "over the hill." Light, but enjoyable read. I was disappointed that my library book was only black and white, and missing some of the excellent coloration from the first book I read.
The cornerstone of GRAPHIX, our new graphic novel imprint, BONE is the incredible comic book saga of an unlikely hero who must save an idyllic valley from the forces of evil.In THE GREAT COW RACE, volume 2 of this 9-book epic, Fone Bone and his cousins plan to return home after visiting the village of Barrelhaven with Thorn and Gran'ma Ben. But Phoney risks everything on one last get-rich-quick scheme for the town's annual Great Cow Race.
As usual, Phoney's plans go disastrously awry, and Boneville seems further away than ever.
it was confusing to me because we wore in a farmer market
This just squeaked by with 4 stars: it is a definite improvement over the first book, as the plot really starts moving, and the laughs were a lot more frequent.
The cow race cinched the fourth star!
Yes!
The only thing that bothered me was that now that we are meeting the whole town, it's all white folks, except a sudden (tongue-in-cheek) cameo.
(I checked, and yes Aladdin came out the year before this was published!) With the ridiculous-looking main characters drawn white as actual bones, it would be nice to have more diversity (and I don't mean rats and dragons!).
Lovin' the series so far.
The thing I'm really digging about Bone is that it continues from one issue to the next with really no breaks whatsoever.
This is one long, continuous story...so far.
Bone: The Great Cow Race (Volume 2) collects issues 7-12.Not much else to say as I'm not going to break down each and every issue since it all ties into one giant story.
So, you're just gonna have to read it for yourself.
One thing that I will mention is the reaction of Phoney Bone when he discovers that Lucius is placing his bet on Gran'ma.
Part of Christopher's Great Reread of 2015!!! Hmm.. I need a better title for that.0% of the ratings on this volume are 1 star. What else do you need to know? I didn't even know that was possible for a book with over about 12 ratings.Go read Rothfuss' review as I think it has an interesting take. https://www.goodreads.com/review/show..."Upon your feed you have ten toes... they look just like po-ta-toes!" --- Excerpt from Fone's love poem
As much of a delight as the first volume and a great job at opening up more of the story while keeping the overall feel of the book fun and of-the-moment. Jeff Smith's art is really something special. Everyone looks distinct, even the Bone fellows, and his use of texture and shadow is wonderful. I think this will end up being a favorite as I move forward, and for more than just my absolute adoration of Gran'ma Ben.
Again, not going to write a whole review on just this section (I have them in one book, so for me it's a section), but I will write a review on my edition when I'm done. And then I'll tell you what I REALLY think. lol, I think they're fantastic. An amazing series, even though I'm not a huge fan of comic books. :)(but it gets better and better, so keep reading even if you feel discouraged)
This book was about the bones who have to blend into the other cows so they won't get caught from the rat creatures but the rat creatures are chasing the cows and they have to run away.I liked this book because It was funny and it had a lot of close calls.I recommend this book to people that like the bone series and read bone 1.
Another great book by this awesome author! I think that this is the best series I have ever read!! The Bone books are hilarious and action packed!
Starting to figure out more of the mysteries in this story! I am going to the library today to pick up the third because I have to know what happens!
Obozavam ova cudovista, a i sama trka je zabavna :)
I did not enjoy this volume as much as I enjoyed the first. The storyline felt slower and it just didn't hold my interest as much. The antics of the bones was entertaining and watching Phoney try to scheme his way through the book was a delight but it just felt like it took forever even though it's a fairly short read. I did like how Thorn's past and childhood was explored a little bit more. I also really enjoyed the interaction between the two rat creatures. They were the highlight of the work.
Interesting little scheme Phoney Bone. . . .
Nastavlja se odlično :D
Always fun with the recaps of the Bone series
Fun! I'm thinking it was a mistake to start reading this series when I don't have the rest of the books available to me...
its cool its inestren funny
I loved this series! It’s honestly one of my favourite comics! I love the art style and the plot and the characters!! It’s just all so amazing!Strongly recommend everyone to read this series!
This was a great book and I enjoyed the whole series.
Awesome, loved this second part in the Bone saga! The same humor as in the previous part, but different enough to feel fresh as well.
it was good.
This was my second time reading this but it was still funny. I forgot some thins about the book and this time I did closer reading and did some thinking about the book while i was reading it. I was also able to understand better about the book.
