https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65470.Love_s_Unfolding_Dream
I am very into this series. Let me just forewarn you thet iffen you decide to give these here books a look-see, it be likely thet ya start talkin' (or at least thinkin') extry fancy like.
possibly one of the BEST Love Comes Softly booksI love Belinda!
The next book after this I thought was even better (next book spoiler, major)(view spoiler)[ because hey!
Belinda is the first to not get married!
Although what on earth happened to the boy that she, you know kissed??????!?!!?!
(hide spoiler)] I only included that spoiler because I won't be reviewing that book on Goodreads.
(long and complicated story, but I did read the book)Anyways Love's Unfolding Dream is a great book!Content: one kiss, between an unmarried couple.
mentions of blood/amputations (Belinda goes with her uncle, who is a doctor, to several house visits)
Yet another great volume in this Christian historical romance/drama series; this one has a fun ending that I won't give away here.
Marty's great, Clark's a sweetheart, Belinda's amazing, Amy Jo's “vibrant”, Melissa's endearing, Jackson's cute, Luke's wonderful, and Drew is absolutely positively perfect!Now goodbye, I'm off to the next book!!!
I know.(*sigh*)Marty was great as usual.
She was sweet, kind, motherly, attentive, compassionate, and I can not believe how old she is!
For some reason, I think he's gonna be back in there somewhere.And speaking of guys, I know a really sweet and wonderful one that better be in the next book.Drew, Aah, what a sweetie!
I wish Janette Oke included more precise locations and dates in her books.
As I read more about the pioneer era, one thing that is starting to bug me about Janette Oke's books are her inaccuracies.
In the books, the Davis family members are always eating cakes, cookies, pies, etc.
In reality, if you read real accounts of farming families out west during that time even the best farmers went hungry some winters.
This is just one of the things I wish Janette would discuss in her books.
Of the six different Janette Oke books I have read, this is probably my least favorite. The majority of the book was from Marty Davis (the mother / grandmother) viewpoint. So the storyline at times was based on her & her husband's "slowing down at their age". If the intended audience is young adult genre, I wonder how much the book would hold this audience's interest. I did think Ms. Oke did a wonderful portrayal of the power of prayer within the novel.
"Would you mind if we talked a bit?"Belinda shook her head. Drew looked up at her and laughed, "Would you mind comin' down off yer horse before I get a crink in my neck?" (217)
I loved it!
Another good oneA great continuation of the Love comes softly series. The story continues with the characters still growing but still same as in the other books.
Great historical fiction romance. Very believable, Christian read.
One of my favorites in the series.
Spiritual books. I loved it!
It was pretty good!!!
Not as good as some of the others, but a sweet one none the less.
It is central to the story how this family tries to introduce others to God.This is Belinda's story as a teen, although there is still plenty about others in the family especially Marty and Melissa.
There is much kindness in Melissa, but as Clark predicts, maybe some faults also.PoV switches around in this book, but is mostly centered on Marty and Belinda.This is another story without a lot of exciting events, but it is filled with the warmth of family events and with the love of the Davis family for those around them.There are no mature themes.
Belinda, Melissa, and Amy Jo all have a grand time together.
Oke did a great job displaying their different personalities.
Even something like adding them all having a crush on the same boy and dealing with the fallout of him liking Belinda when she doesn't like him back (later on).
Oke writes human relationships very well.
Belinda is also training to be a nurse with Luke.
She and Luke were called out for a broken arm.
The arm was more than broken; it was pulverized and had to be removed.
He eventually comes to realize that Luke and Belinda did what they had to do and isn't mad at them anymore.
Nice! I liked it. It was wonderful reading about Belinda and her desire to be a nurse and work with big brother Dr. Luke. That just wouldn't be allowed in today's society with so much political correctness going on. I hope she succeeds in the next book. Missie's daughter, Melissa Joy, comes to stay with grandma Marty. A new neighbour family called the Simpsons also test the Davis household.
Truly entertaining an interesting to see Marty dealing with having a baby at the older side of motherhood and while also being a Grandma. The cousin, Melissa(Missy's child), aunt Belinda(the Davis' youngest) and niece Amy(Clare and Kate's oldest) relationship was also very enjoyable to read about. Thank you, Mrs. Oke, for so many lovely books.
Nostalgia book- As I read back through these books I am enjoying getting aquanted with the Clark family again. This book was a pleasure to read. I really enjoyed seeing things through Belinda's eyes. The family has grown and changed but they are essentially the same in virtue. I enjoyed this next generation of Clark's and their coming of age.
I still can't get over the way this book ended. So cute. I didn't picture Belinda finding love with drew. I laughed so hard when the girls had boy issues. I think besides the first book, this is my best story in the series so far. I'm off to the next book.
I love the series but it is definitely not like the movie at all.in the movie,it's more about Belinda and Drew is her Beau.in the book however he is the boy who she helped her doctor brother cut the arm off of.still good though...both movie and book.
This book is a must read. I couldn't put it down once I started it. You get more attached to the stories characters. The only sad part for me as that the story ended. Read this amazing series you will really love it.
A great soft read! Highly recommend this series to anyone who loves historical fiction with meaning. Five stars
Number six in the series and maybe my favorite!
The unfolding dreams...Wow, so much excitement, lots of love and the family continues to grow.... I can’t wait to begin the next book in line....
Very very good!! Loved the suspense of the ending as well!!!
So cute and faith filled!
A shift in focus takes us into the life of Belinda, Marty and Clarks surprise baby, in her mid teen years.
Luckily the triangle takes a backseat to the far more interesting story of Belinda's discovery of her life passion, nursing.
And Marty and Clark try to help the boys proud but poverty stricken family without letting them know they are being helped.
At first the story is a little confusing with so many family members making an appearance.
Another beautiful story of human strength, faith, love and family by Janette awoke.
(I didn’t read all of these in large print, but the cover art is the same.)The first book, Love Comes Softly, was the first I ever read by Oke, my introduction into her sweet, warm, and simplistic style of storytelling that would make her one of my all-time favorite authors, up there with Henry James and L.M. Montgomery.
Yes, I love my classic authors with their legendary works, but there’s something to be said for an author who just tells a plain story that gets at readers’ hearts.The first three books of the series are my favorites, but the series is well worth reading in its entirety.
Even though this is book 6 in the "Love Comes Softly" series, it's easy to jump in and follow the storyline without reading the previous books in the set.
(Her mother, father, and various siblings were the main characters in previous books.) Belinda is very sensitive and can't bear the pain of even the smallest creatures.
As the book progresses, one of Belinda's former patients becomes a love interest.
My only complaint with the book was that I wanted more of the love story.
But to get to that part of the story, you have to read book 7.
