https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/34467031-manhattan-beach
is this really the same author who wrote A Visit from the Goon Squad?Manhattan Beach feels like several stories in one, all struggling to come together, all lacking cohesion, none of them emotionally engaging.
Anna's care for her disabled sister and her desire to appear strong and capable to her father drives the first few chapters, but it is over all too soon.Then the novel makes one of many jumps through time and we find ourselves following Anna as an adult woman trying to forge a career for herself and support her family.
I didn't feel like there was any point to the story, anything to question, wonder about, or want to know.
Anna is initially a twelve year old and a true daddy’s girl.
Then she's working at the Naval Yard during the war and her father has disappeared five years earlier.
And she's done her research and the parts of the book describing the Naval Yard and the merchant ships ring true.
There was just something missing.
Cohesion was missing.
You know how when you're reading a good book, you'll do anything to get back to it?
Here, I kept finding excuses not to read, which is very odd for me.
I kept avoiding the book.
I can't say I loved A Visit From the Goon Squad as much as the Pulitzer Prize committee or the National Book Critics Circle, or the many five star reviewers on Goodreads, but I liked it well enough to want to give this one a try and I'm so glad I did.
It's a very different kind of book than Goon Squad.
This is a story of the impact of war on women and the opportunities that open up whilst the men are away, class, crime, loss, tragedy and the relationship between fathers and daughters.
As Anna dives into sea waters that hide a multitude of secrets, such as treasures and dead bodies, revealed to the diver, so she gets closer to the dark truths that lie behind Eddie, to discover that there is so much she didn't know about him.Egan gives us detailed insights of New York as a Port city and its importance to the US war effort through the Brooklyn Naval Yard and the specifics of the sea diving operations.
Having never read a Jennifer Egan novel before I was bereft of preconceived notions.But based on the blurb and certainly on the first few chapters I was eager to continue reading what promised to be an interesting well written story.Set in depression era Brooklyn, Anna Kerrigan is only 12 years old as the story opens.
The house on Manhattan Beach belongs to Dexter Styles, a nightclub owner who has ties to the mob but whose marriage also opens doors for him among high society.Flash forward a number of years and Anna’s father has disappeared.
I don't usually curse in my reviews, but the truth is that this is half-assed crap bordering on total shit.
The characters are flat, the plot flounders and everything is presented via repeat descriptions of Veronica Lake hairdos and laughably bad James Cagney film dialogue.
I also hated the tedious and pedantic descriptions of scuba diving procedures.
I finished this 4 months ago but the publisher instructed me to not post a review until closer to its publication date so I followed that instruction and waited until the publication date itself: today, 10/3/17.
But I understood, from many reviews, some found it dull, some found it pointless, others found it ultra modern and stylistic, but none really questioned the actual writing (thank the good lord, since it won the Pulitzer).So, I was thrilled to receive the ARC of this book, eager to dive into the writing of a new-to-me author who had risen to the top of the top in 2011, excited to be one of the first to see what she had come up with this year.And I found myself reading a ...
But I was expecting more from this Pulitzer award winning author.Thank you to Netgalley and Simon & Schuster Canada for providing a free copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
!! NOW AVAILABLE !!What I was drawn to: The story centers on Anna Kerrigan, and her Irish family, beginning in Brooklyn during the Great Depression, an era and location that should come alive, so much rich history to drawn from.
It wasn’t really that Anna was a more likable character than the others, it was a mixture of the episodic shuffle of time and place and person, which made the structure of this story feel very disjointed, and possibly even more for me was feeling as though there was a lot of ‘telling’ and not enough ‘showing,’ the writing, unnatural and stilted.
I enjoyed the first chapter and was ok with the ones following - until around page 150 - when I realized that I have no idea what the point is, what the book is about, what I am supposed to feel.
The book is both too narrow and too broad and as a result left me feeling slightly bemused and more than a little disappointed.The book tells three wildly differing stories: Anna's story and her struggle to find her own place in a world made for men; her father's story and his problems with the mob; and Dexter Styles' story, a nightclub owner with ties to the mob and to high society.
Manhattan Beach is home to a rich gangster, Dexter Styles and Eddie brings Anna to his home, seeking a job that he desperately needs to care for Lydia and his family.
Exactly what is Eddie and Dexter's relationship?The story moves forward and Anna is 19 years old and hasn't seen her father for five years when he suddenly disappeared.
Anna eventually meets Dexter Styles again and learns much more about her father and his life.This book was a slow burner and I was hoping for something in the plot to intrigue me enough to become invested in the characters, but it did not.
I made it about half way through this one. Just, not interested. Apologies!
Instead, her new book leaps into the past, offering us a story built on sturdy older forms polished to a high sheen.“Manhattan Beach” — longlisted for a National Book Award even before it was released — is a historical novel set during World War II in New York.
As soon as Anna is old enough, she takes a tedious job working alongside “the marrieds,” measuring machine parts at the Brooklyn Naval Yard.
Fortunately for Anna, the war has depleted the pool of qualified men, which gives her a chance to don a 200-pound diving “dress” and take the plunge.She may be persistent, but.
There are great books about New York and great books about the sea. There are great books about fiercely independent women and great books about gangsters. There are great books about war. There are great books about fathers and daughters, and great books about falling in love. “Manhattan Beach” is a great book about all of these things. I loved every single word.
I read the blurb for this novel and it sounded right up my alley, so I decided to give Jennifer Egan another go although I didn’t care to finish A Visit from the Goon Squad - her Pulitzer winning novel.As you can tell from my rating, I didn’t love Manhattan Beach either.
I wish publishers stopped writing that in blurbs, how about letting the readers and the critics come to that conclusion?Honestly, reading it felt like work.
I could never lose myself in the story, although I got lost several times.
"What can't she do?" is right. Turns out Jennifer Egan can do anything she damn well pleases, including take 7 years to write a World War II novel that manages to shuck all the expected conventions of writing about those years. There is some amount of mystery here but it isn't a mystery novel, just like there's plenty of history but it isn't a historical novel. Egan's writing has all the pleasure of a comfy blanket on a crisp autumn morning - so what luck that this fall brings a joy like this novel.
Mind-numbingly boring. With few exceptions, the writing was bland. Except for the opening chapter or two, the characters were dull, dull, dull. I didn’t end up caring about anything or anyone by the 48% mark, and from what I gathered from the plot synopsis, I was still waiting for the goddamned story to begin! What a waste of time.
Era una cecità che le riusciva sopportabile”.Ambientato nella New York della fine anni '30 e anni '40, questo romanzo è creato in un mondo privo della cultura dell'immagine e della connessione perpetua: un mondo che ospita differenti universi, il porto navale, il sindacato, le donne, le ballerine, i gangsters, i banchieri, i marinai e i soldati.
Si incrociano i destini e si uniscono inestricabili e ci sono gli inganni di Anna e l'inganno della Egan nel suggerire che le profondità siano tanto buie e oscure, da lasciare una percezione di niente al nostro continuo e persistente sguardo sull'immagine del mondo, sulle parole che scorrono tra le pagine.
It’s the story of her family too – sister Lydia, mother Agnes and father Eddie – but these other family members flit in and out of the narrative whilst Anna is always present, even when the focus isn't directly upon her.
And through this early part of the book we also learn that Agnes chose to give up her career as a dancer to look after Lydia full-time.
I liked the character development and I felt invested in the fate of all the family members, but the constant changes in time and focus sometimes left me confused and frustrated.
Anna Kerrigan is nearly 12 years old.
Years later, her father disappears and the country is at war.
Anna becomes the first female diver, a dangerous and exclusive occupation repairing ships that will help America win the war.
Anna is the sole provider for her mother and her severely disabled sister.For me, the book started off really well for about 25% then I honestly don't know what happened to make this change.
Maybe it was because of all the dead ends and the red herrings.
There were parts of the book that were really good and well written.
Maybe it's just me, over thinking everything.
SUMMARYA spirited eleven year-old, Anna Kerrigan accompanies her beloved father, Eddie to the grand Brooklyn beach home of handsome underworld figure, Dexter Styles.
MANHATTAN BEACH is about how the lives of Anna, Eddie and Dexter become intertwined over the course of time and how time continues to move us forward.
The emotions in the novel; whether fear, loneliness, pleasure or passion, evoked by Anna, Eddie and Dexter are rich and palpable.
JENNIFER EGAN has expertly delivered a portrait of three people’s lives which are altered forever by a winter meeting on Manhattan Beach.
I have previously loved books by Jennifer Egan, so I gave this one more time than I usually would before deciding not to finish.
I really thought the sister Lydia's dialogue that starts up around 40% was going to turn it around, and I thought, yes!
Because of this, because I've previously enjoyed Egan, and because it is on the longlist for the National Book Award somehow, I gave it even more time than I would have otherwise.

I have tried desperately to get into this book, but I've now started it over for a third time and it's just not jelling for me.
The descriptions of diving are so fascinating; it's obvious how much resource the author has done on the subject!But just when you think that the story is all about Anna and her trials and tribulations, the story switches to Dexter Styles...and also to Eddie, who, it seems, has been a sailor in the Merchant Marines, a very interesting twist to the story.
My step-dad was in the Merchant Marines and would have enjoyed Eddie's harrowing tale.
And in these details, Ms Egan adds another interesting layer to what we already know about WWII--that alone makes it well worth reading.
Set in the 1930s and 1940s, this is the story of Anna Kerrigan, a New Yorker of Irish extraction whose father disappears after working for Dexter Styles, a gangster who owns several nightclubs.
Egan focuses on interesting historical side notes such as Anna’s work as a diver at Brooklyn Navy Yard during WWII, but in general her insertion of period detail is not very natural.
By comparison, Manhattan Beach is merely serviceable historical fiction and tended to lose my interest when it went into flashbacks to Anna’s father Eddie’s earlier life or veered away to spend lots of time with Styles.
Now longlisted for the 2018 Women's Prize.The author’s follow up book to the brilliant A Visit from the Goon Squad.
Famously Egan was quoted extensively a number of years back as saying that “A Visit from the Goon Squad” was inspired by The Sopranos and by Marcel Proust's In Search of Lost Time – the Sopranos inspiration being its polyphonic cast structure (with secondary characters coming to the fore) and its lateral sense of plot development.
I was disappointed by this novel.
I really liked Goon Squad, but Manhattan Beach?
Meh. Although it was a competent and well-formed novel, it didn't dazzle me.
It felt overburdened by research, and at times the plot felt like stretch.
(The period dialog felt hokey to me at times.) I live across the street from the Brooklyn Navy Yard, so that was fun, looking out on Building 77, for instance.
But I didn't dog-ear pages or particularly look forward to reading this book.
She is a talented writer, of course, but Manhattan Beach, to me, didn't really show her talent as it might have.
And hey, Jennifer Egan certainly knows how to write: She beautifully captures the special atmosphere at Manhattan Beach, while at the same time, she effectively manages to transport the reader to the 1940s.The book's protagonist is Anna Kerrigan, a young woman who works in a factory that produces military equipment, but dreams of becoming a diver.
Egan does an excellent job intertwining the different threads of the story: The changing time levels, Eddie's backstory, Anna's ambition to dive, to live freely as a young woman and to find out what happened to her father, and especially the relationship between Anna and Lydia - that part is just heart-wrenchingly beautfiful.
I feel like I should love them but they don't quite hit right.
But here we are again, much the same as before.In this story of a daughter, Anna, whose father disappears under mysterious circumstances, there is a lot to love.
I found myself being swept away several times by Anna's life and experience, especially her time working in the Naval Yard, but then I would be un-swept and find myself plodding along waiting to be swept away again.
The world is wonderfully built, but as with her previous novels I keep waiting for the prose and the power to turn it into more than the sum of its parts and it never quite happened.
For the most part I enjoyed this long meandering read. There were plenty of twists and surprises, some more believable than others. Unfortunately, I found several passages throughout the book so slow it just made the story drag.
