https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/81939.The_Mastery_of_Love
Ruiz also wrote The Four Agreements...very good read but I liked Mastery of Love more b/c as a girl that has grown up in a (pleasantly) divorced family, I am a skeptic of love and it’s hard for me to open up.
Once you find that out, not with logic, not with the intellect, but because you can feel that Life - you find out that you are the force that makes the flowers open and close, that makes the hummingbird fly from flower to flower.
حقيقتاً كه بعد از "چهار ميثاق" از ميگوئل خان انتظار بيشترى داشتم.كتاب ملغمه ايست از سخنانى كه گاه حك
He was writing truth, and it was truth people need.The next quotes about relationships and finding “the right one” were quite poignant.“I can tell you that the right woman for you is the one you love just the way she is, the woman you don’t have the need to change at all…you are lucky if you find the right woman for you, and at the same time you are the right man for her.”“You know the kind of man or woman that you want?
This is one of those perfect books, that sits on my bookshelf, and then miraculously falls into my bag, just as I head away for a long weekend - just when I need it the most.
In fact Don Miguel Ruiz's explanation of the hell that is earth, and how and why we have so foolishly created this for ourselves, was just what I needed to hear.
I went away wondering if in fact I needed to leave this area of study, as it was so hard for me to handle.
(p.111)And most importantly, it reminded me that love really is all that matters.
Then if happiness can only come from inside of you and is the result of your love, you are responsible for your happiness.
Fear is full of obligations.+Love has no expectations.
That is why fear hurts and love doesn't hurt.
Fear doesn't respect anything, including itself.
[...] When I don't respect myself, I feel sorry for myself, I feel I'm not good enough to make it in this world.LOVE IS RUTHLESS; IT DOESN'T FEEL SORRY FOR ANYONE, BUT IT DOES HAVE COMPASSION.
[...]love respects.
+Love is completely responsible.
p74You are going to be [...] right [...] if she loves you just the way you are and she doesn't want to change you.
I just can't get past the bad writing. The concepts occasionally seemed worth a bit of thought yet by the time the author finished beating them into the ground through repetitive poor sentences I disregarded the ideas in disgust. Really, I didn't know someone could rephrase a single thought so many times without once expressing it in a succinct, (or even quasi-intelligent,) manner. Ah well, I guess I won't be able to 'self-help' after all... Ghost writer, anyone?
This book certainly contains some good and well needed advice, for example it frequently stresses the importance of self acceptance and self love, a concept which I think many of us struggle with.
I agree that Western thought is often too focused on having, taking and receiving, rather than giving as a source of joy and happiness - and I agree that something needs to change, that happiness shouldn't be about having and taking.
Perhaps I am just too full of the "fear and emotional poison" that my society has drilled into me, to be able to fully grasp the concepts of unconditional love in this book.
From the Toltec perspective, everything we believe about ourselves, and everything we know about our world, is a dream".OK now that we've established our reality amounts to one big fantasy of our own creation let's move on to the 2nd concept.
(Notice I continuously revert to the ever popular HS gibberish "Whatever" throughout this review.)I'm going to throw in a few additional quotes just to reiterate the fact your life is a dream/fantasy of your own creation known as H-E-L-L-.*more evil laughs“There are humans versus humans in a jungle of predators; humans full of judgment, full of blame, full of guilt, full of emotional poison — envy, anger, hate, sadness, suffering.
This book has very little and everything to do with creating meaningful relationships with others.
This book looks at how and why we've created a dream of hell and sheds light on how we can turn that dream into a dream of heaven.Although I was not big on the slightly religious undertones in some of the chapters, I do believe that we are here for a reason and if that is the case, something created us.
The religious aspect of the book was easily overlooked because of the depth of perception that it gives to living life the way we believe it to be.Don't believe me.
The best spiritual book I have ever read.
It teaches you how you can reach happiness and love, within yourself.
Once you have mastered self-love and have healed from emotional wounds, happiness is achieved and this is vital for a healthy loving relantionship.
Can't wait to start reading the Four Agreements.
"Happiness can only come from inside of you and is the result of your love.
When you are aware that no one else can make you happy, and that happiness is thte result of your love, this becomes the greatest mastery of the Toltecs: the Mastery of Love"

What beautiful messages! Don Miguel Ruiz writes of the toltec teachings on love. The toltecs were known as men and woman of knowledge and for thousands of years they have passed down their knowledge. I can definitely see myself going back to this book and rereading any chapter. The reason I gave it 3 stars was because there was a lot of repetition and the writing was not the best BUT I will not let this stop you from reading this book. I'm going to read more of Don Miguel Ruiz in the future!
زندگی دقیقا همان را برایتان می آورد که به آن نیاز دارید.خداوند عادل است.موردی برای نکوهش نیست...
Good wisdom here, but this is really not the kind of book I like. It feels so ethereal and hard to pin down. I guess I should have known based on the cover and the promise of the book. I just thought that perhaps there was more depth in here than I had assumed.
But I can say that I loved the message of this book, and here are some major points I like to mention:Time to unlearn:A child is the prove that we have to unlearn what our awareness is made of through our years of living.
Yes, I agree with "Don Miguel", it is time to unlearn a lot of things.Definition of adolescence:The child learning to follow.
A baby animal watches his mother to learn the techniques of hunting, because he is doomed to be himself a good hunter, or die in hunger.
Lack of love makes us suffer.

From it's all about you to it's not about you, these teachings will shift your understanding to a different level."A Toltec is an artist of Love,an artist of the Spirit,someone who is creating every moment,every second, the most beautiful art--the Art of Dreaming.Life is nothing but a dream,and if we are artists,then we can create our life with Love,and our dream becomes a masterpiece of art.""Happiness can only come from inside of you and is the result of your love.
When you are aware that no one else can make you happy, and that happiness is the result of your love, this becomes the greatest mastery of the Toltecs: the Mastery of Love." ---from the book
Sexist oversimplification with the occasional good point.
didn't "technically" finish it....it was too terrible...boring, lame, corny, and repetitive...highly unrecommend
"The teachings that come from India, from the Toltecs, the Christians, the Greeks - fromsocieties all over the world - come from the same truth. They talk about reclaiming yourDivinity and finding God within you. They talk about having your heart completely open andbecoming wise. Can you imagine what kind of world this would be if all humans opened theirhearts and found the love inside?"
A book about love on a high level of emotional development and self-responsibility. I enjoyed the section about healing the emotional body. Ruiz suggests the 3 elements of a healthy emotional body are:1. THE TRUTH2. FORGIVENESS 3. SELF-LOVEGreat read for anyone walking the path to personal freedom.
"Duh!"This book is a must read if you want to become aware and fully in control of the dream that is our reality.
If you wish to unlock the door towards self love, and loving others the right way.With an extremely practical approach, that makes this book an easy read to every one, men and women, he sets about the guidelines for waking from this dream, a state he calls awareness.
Once we have achieved awareness, and can “see” the dream for what it is, we can begin to take steps to change it."Happiness never comes from outside of us.
This book has statements like "You are perfect." "Everything around you is perfect" "Happiness can only come from inside of you and is the result of your love." - which are impossible to explain using logic.Miguel has touched a number of basic but important aspects like the negative effect of other people's opinions, low self-esteem lead to the need for constant validation, healthy relation with oneself helps to have a healthy relation with others, maximizing happiness, defining love, belief system.
Below are some excerpts from various dimensions of this book:People build different images to get accepted by their parents, by friends & by society, and we are the ones who domesticate our children towards acceptance, fear, right, and wrong which gives a spark to different images.
One of his big points in both books is that most of what we see/think about life is an illusion.
Everything exists in our perception, we don't see things as they really are, we see them how we're trained to see them.
He asserts that most of us live our lives in "hell" because of our perceptions of ourselves and others.
Book also talks about the wounds of the emotional body and how they need to be healed just like physical wounds, otherwise we spread poison and pain to others and feel it continually ourselves.
There's lots of talk of spirituality as well, in regards to forgiveness and god (love) emanating from within.
Šī grāmata, manuprāt, nebija parasta grāmata. Sākumā šī grāmata bija par mīlestību, cilvēku savstarpējām attiecībām un to saskaņu.Sākumā šī grāmata pierāda to, ka mīlestība nepastāv, kā tās ir tikai bailes palikt vienam, bailes tikt sāpinātam jeb arī vienkārši tu jau esi pieradis pie otra cilvēka. šī grāmata ir ļoti psiholoģiski pamācoša, jo šī grāmata māca to, ka nevajag meklēt jeb radīt otrā savas īpašības. Nevajag radīt cilvēku pēc saviem principiem un uzskatiem. šo grāmatu es ieteiktu izlasit jebkuram, jo viņa patiešām ir dzīves pamācoša.
Although the book isn't a literary masterpiece, as it is poorly written and circular in content.. I would say it's a must read.. The content may actually change the way you face other, and your relationship with another... Romantic and not romantic relationships.I take from this book several important concepts which I'll definitely share with others as I believe them to be precious.. And positively life changing! Please read!
An awesome wisdom book about the power of self-love. Happiness can only come from within you and is the result of self-love. When you are aware that no one else can make you happy and that happiness is the result of your love, you can accomplish anything, anything becomes possible.
Not sure what he was trying to say...thoughts are not coherent. Not very well written. Definitely a waste of my time trying to read it!
Es war ganz interessant mal was anderes als sonst zu lesen :)
There is a lot of research showing that one of the most important variables that determine the quality of your life is the quality of your relationships.
Yet, there is not a lot of formal education our there on how to build great relationships.
Shortly after getting married, my amazing wife and I have decided to be intentional about building a great relationship and this book is a great tool to do so.
This book is more about wisdom than knowledge.
I know a lot of left-brained people (like me) will think this is not as valuable because Don Miguel doesn't share a lot of "information" or "research".
