https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/111221.The_Princes_in_the_Tower
Also, I don't believe in people being 100% evil from the start - it's never black-or-white but nuanced and complicated, that is just how humans are - and for him to always secretly have been cruel and evil would be too convenient.In this book, we do get evidence that the princes were killed during Richard III's reign.
Moreover, the author was very good in showing that the then commander of the Tower was loyal to Richard III and always refused entrance to anyone not having Richard's permission to see the princes, making it extremely unlikely that anyone plotting the children's murder would have gotten to them without the king's help.
Unfortunately, Weir did not go into writing this book with an open mind--she went in condemning Richard, and it shows.I read this right after reading Josephine Tey's excellent and eye-opening The Daughter of Time, because I thought it was only fair to get an anti-Richard opinion before I decided where on the spectrum my opinions lay.
I really wanted to see both sides of the argument.Instead, I found a myriad of holes in Weir's historicity and reasoning--including places where she actually contradicts herself.Read it to get a sense of the historical drama, and to pick up the set of the stage and a sense of the major players.
Based on a prayer that Richard had written in one of his personal prayer books where he had expressed gratitude for Christ redeeming him from eternal damnation, Weir assumes that he had committed a horrific sin (you know, like killing his nephews) that would deserve damnation.
Interesting persepective, maybe it is true, maybe not. Something still doesn’t seem right to me. I would like to find a book with Richard in a more positive light. Recommendations?
This book focuses around the short lives and mysterious death of the two sons of Edward IV and Elizabeth Woodville.
In any case.) They were declared illegitimate after Richard III took power, and imprisoned in the Tower of London and were never seen again.
Alison Weir does clearly have a bias against Richard, but I think that the bias is reasonable given the evidence presented.
There are other suspects, but none with as much reason and evidence against them as Richard.
Alison Weir writes very well and tries hard to make her books accessible to people, which is a plus for history based tomes!
What I find disconcerting is all her arguments against Richard III could equally be applied to Henry VII - however I personally don't believe that she achieved this.
And we are to believe in Richard's guilt due to his silence on the fate of the princes - something of which Henry VII himself was also guilty of (silence, that is).The chapter on the scientific / forensic evidence is a mere four pages - it rests solely on the evidence of bones (belonging to children) and a piece of velvet (claimed only worn by the highest nobility).
Ergo juvenile bones and a scrap of rag equal incontrovertible proof.I was not expecting much - as I mentioned Weir is not my favourite author - and this really maintains my belief.
Re-read "The Sunne in Splendour" for the fiftieth time (because I've heard that one is rather sympathetic, if fictional).Furthermore, I should probably add that although I share her opinion of Richard's guilt (though my theory is more of a "probably" than certainty) I don't necessarily think that Alison Weir is the best historian.
"The Princes in the Tower", though interesting and informative, is especially colored by Weir's opinions."The Princes in the Tower" features plenty of contemporary sources, and some popular ones that everyone should read about even if they don't necessarily agree with them.
OK, I don't share her prejudice....but that is the problem right there - no self-respecting historian has any right to go around writing a book that has no intention of even trying for objectivity.
His unfinished work is widely acknowledged to be biased and More was only 5 at the time of Richard's death so could hardly give first hand evidence.I could go on and on with examples of evidence that are presented in such a way that only one conclusion could possibly be reached.
This probably would have been an interesting and compelling book to read if I were not troubled by the biased presentation and half-truths.
The Princes in the Tower (these would be Edward V and brother Richard-- sons of King Edward IV and Elizabeth Woodville); is a fascinating and unsolved mystery (cue Robert Stack) which hundreds of years later, STILL raises eyebrows, bogs some minds, and interests history and non-history buffs alike.
Trust me, I read lots of genelogical charts to get it all straight!); but pure ambition and greed led to his declaring his brothers Edward IV and George illegimate in order to declare the princes and newly (but not yet annointed) boy-king Edward V also as bastards so he can gain the throne.
Having read the Bertram Fields 'Royal Blood' investigation into this fifteenth century murder mystery, I travelled back in time to examine Alison Weir's 1992 publication of 'The Princes in the Tower.' Of the two, I have to go with Weir's verdict and pronounce Dick III guilty.
Here was a coup, perhaps with Buckingham's help among others, but with Richard's hands all over it.
Bloody hands too at Stony Stratford.
No surprise he had trouble sleeping at night.As with other books by Alison Weir, here is a well researched and fine examination of the period and it's primary source material.
It was a case for the villainy of Richard the III.
It's all the build up from the time when Richard is away from Court, gaining support in the North, away from the conspiracies and tension between Edward IV and his wife Elisabeth Woodville, until his kidnapping of the Prince Edward V, who was then locked in the Tower with his brother, and allegedly killed by Richard III's orders.
After Richard III becomes king, the chapters are about the Princes, their fate, Richard's fate, his alleged affair with Elizabeth's daughter, his niece, the pretenders and impostors, Tyrell's confession (lost but recorded by More), and the bones evidence is the last chapter.
And I also agree that this lack of objectivity finds its way into her writing.That said, I also think Richard is guilty of his nephews' murder.
I'm not sure that his guilt makes him any worse a person than Margaret of Anjou, who let her troops massacre and rape thousands of English innocents during the Wars of the Roses, or any worse than Henry V, whose wholesale butchery of northern France would be considered a war atrocity today.So, whether or not Richard is guilty wasn't of interest to me -- I was more interested in the details and research.
She marshals an impressive body of information and paints a picture of Richard as a bloody-minded and ruthless tyrant who had his brother's two sons murdered because they threatened his hold on power.I was watching a TV series on the rise of the Nazi Party while reading the book.
Weir conveys an image of Richard III that reminded me of Hitler.
Her Richard is the same sort of person.I give the book five stars because I admire the way the author sifts through disparate sources of information, giving high credence to accounts by people who had access to different sources of information and could not have known what the others had written.
I enjoyed Weir's book and found the arguments she put forward to demonstrate that Richard III was indeed responsible for the death of the princes was well presented and convincing, although I haven't heard an alternate argument. Still, I think it's most likely he was responsible, since he had motive and opportunity.
Once again, it is left to the reader to balance how much weight to give these beliefs, but I personally feel that Weir makes a convincing argument for the case that Richard is the most plausible responsible party for the deaths of the Princes.I was initially puzzled by the number of poor reviews on the book.
This is largely due to the fact that there is little contemporary documentation that provided a clear statement of what happened to the two princes.While she has no trouble in piling up the evidence against Richard, who ruled for a period as Richard III before being removed by the first of the Tudor kings (Henry VII), she is also careful to highlight how his enemies did much to demonize him further, even to go so far as to change painting to make him appear a hunchback with unequally-lengthed arms and a constant sneer.Weir has a talent for writing documentary works in a narrative that is so comfortable that it sometimes feels like you are reading fiction.
Alison Weir sets out to make the case that Richard III murdered the princes in the tower, his nephews Edward V and Richard, Duke of York.
While I don't disagree with the idea that he was the most likely person to have ordered the murder of the princes, what I found most convincing was something she hinted at but never really explored in her narrative (because she was too busy heaping scorn on Richard to take a moment and be objective).Richard had been loyal to his brother, Edward IV.
Another result was that Edward IV's wife, Elizabeth Wydville and her family saw him as a rival.
I read Princes in the Tower to contrast a biography of Richard III by Paul Murray Kendall, unfortunately instead of well thought out case for Richard III has the murderer of the Princes, I got Sir Thomas More 2.0 and arch villain of Shakespeare.I give credit to Weir for the information written in Chapters 18-19 & 21 relating to the events that occurred after Bosworth and the discovery of the skeletons that are most likely the Princes and medical exams performed on them.
Weir stated that because Tyrell had held positions under Henry VII, the first Tudor believed that the confession would implicate him in the Princes' murder.
Having read Josephine Tey's Daughter of Time, I assumed that the real Richard didn't kill his nephews, the princes in the Tower of the title, in order to get the throne.
Alison Weir's extensively researched and much later book persuades me that he probably was.Weir's research shows that many people at the time believed that he had killed the princes after he confined them to the Tower and claimed that they were bastards and thus unable to inherit the throne.
Weir says that Richard apparently really was religious and points out that one can do something evil and still believe in God.
From the start, Weir states that she believes that Richard III is guilty.
I've actually always thought this, based on the evidence, but Weir seems to go above and beyond.
Whether Richard was responsible for the deaths of the princes or not, I still learned quite a bit about the life and times of England during Richard's short reign, and what came before and after.
I enjoyed learning the history of things.
Weir herself admits that evidence and writings of the time are sketchy, and sometimes it seems as though she is trying to make something out of not much.
In The Princes in the Tower, Alison Weir sets out to prove that, despite the reaching that several people have done to suggest that Richard didn't hurt the princes but was in fact an innocent bystander who just happened to benefit greatly by the deaths of the two young men, who just happened to kind of kill a few other people, and who just happened to be pointed out as the prime suspect even at the time, by people who were witnesses...
The bad reviews of this book on Goodreads have mostly been written by people who belong to that society, whom I suspect are also decrying FAKE NEWS!!
In this, it was to convince the reader that Richard lll ordered the murder of his nephews while they were imprisoned in the Tower.
I don’t think I like that very much; reading a non-fiction book where I feel like the author is trying to convince me of something so forcefully.That being said; were I to put my money on something, I would probably put them on Richard lll ordering the murder of his nephews.
However, I was still entertained while reading this book and as I said, I love all the messiness of the Platagenets and the Tudors!
Human nature is human nature, and if John Morton was keeping a grudge, then I severely doubt he'd tell Thomas More an impartial account of Richard's court.True, if people detested Richard, they would have freely aired their ills under the Tudors, but that's hardly "speaking the truth", as Weir puts it.
Moreover, with the Tudors then moving forward to secure every Plantagenet heir, with the direct male line being mostly scotched out by the time Henry VIII was in power, people would hav very vested interest in not speaking favorably of Richard III, primarily keeping their heads attached.
At times I did feel we wandered off topic a little into a general recounting of major events of the period, not something I really want to criticise as I love history and found the diversions very educational.As a history nerd I really enjoyed this book, it's about a new topic for me and I feel I should read some of the revisionist arguments before drawing my own conclusions as to whether Richard murdered his nephews or not.
Regardless, I found this book really interesting, well researched and most importantly engaging, there really is nothing worse than a history book that sends you to sleep!
Although there is certainly no surprise that Weir reaches her verdict that Richard is solely responsible for ordering the two princes deaths while locked up in the Tower of London – despite a long-held belief by contemporary Yorkists sympathetic to Richard III that it was someone else – she does provide thorough evidence against Richard, as well as evidence against pro-Yorkist theory.
(In fact, one could easily argue that Henry VIII was even worse than Richard, although Tudor writers and dramatists would not have deigned to depict him as such.) For a thoroughly considered evaluation of Richard’s culpability in the deaths of the two princes in the Tower, look no further than Weir.
I read them out of curiosity more than anything else since this is not the first of Weir's books I've read and I know that I immensely enjoy her writing and insight.One of the most common criticisms of the book is that people were hoping to read an objective account and that Weir was biased from the beginning.
She researched the book thoroughly and formed her opinion before she wrote it, which means she went into the book believing Richard III guilty, based on her research.This does not mean Weir went into the project biased.
I'm of two minds on ALison Weir's The Princes in the Tower.
It means that we can get a good details of Edward IV and his reign and Richard III when he was still duke of Gloucester.
She passionately pointing out in every imaginable ways why we have to think Richard III is the most evil man in history.
She even said that Richard III may have incestuous relationship with her niece and may have murdered his wife Anne of Neville.
In truth, I agree that it is most likely Richard III was the one who murdered his nephews.
This book was an enjoyable read, the topic fascinating, but I also found it very frustrating for the first half of the text. The arguments were sloppily constructed and not nearly as convincing as Weir kept telling us they were. By the end of the book, I felt her arguments were more grounded and convincing as she added in later evidence, but the overall construction of the book and the fleshing out of the argument seemed poorly organized and therefore came across as much less convincing to me as a reader.
I'm not writing a full review for this one, because there's not much to say. It seemed to just be a collection of facts relating to the topic of Richard III and The Princes in The Tower and I didn't learn anything new but nonetheless I enjoyed reading it.
A further central character in Richard’s grasp of the reins of power was Henry Stafford, the Duke of Buckingham, whose grandfather had acquired great wealth and property through his support of the Lancastrian house, and whose own personal distaste of the Wydevilles stemmed from his ‘necessary’ betrothal to Elizabeth Wydeville’s own sister.
Thus, at the end of April 1483 Richard set out from York, and Buckingham from Brecon, to intercept the Wydeville escort for Edward V from Ludlow to London for the latter’s coronation, while Hastings harried their faction in the council, denigrating their ‘base blood’, stating this excluded them from acquiring power in the realm.
