https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/160634.Paddington_Helps_Out

This is the third book about him and even though the first is by far the best, it is still a very funny and enjoyable read.
In this book, we go along on several adventures with Paddington - we go for a picnic on the river with him, to a auction house, the cinema, the launderette and out for dinner, as well as see Paddington trying to cook dinner and - my favourite - Paddington as a do it yourself type of bear who tries to build a magazine rack.
and it's very funny to read about.
Another collection of Paddington (mis) adventures. in this one Paddington goes for a picnic, goes to an auction, tries a bit of DIY, goes to the cinema, goes to the launderette, tries a bit of cooking and finally goes to a posh restaurant..... all with predictably disastrous results. all of his mishaps are good fun to read and you can't help but be spirited back to days of innocence and youth. onto the next one....
Her out-loud laughs made the book for me.Every chapter is its own little story – the day Paddington went to the “launderette,” his first movie, dinner out – perfect for reading in its entirety right before bed.And there’s the whole beautiful 50-years-old-and-also-British thing going on.Mrs. Bird, the housekeeper, compliments Paddington on his efforts while she was out of town and Mr. and Mrs. Brown were sick: “That young bear’s one of the old school.”Paddington is happy but confused.But “when Mr. Gruber explained to him that it meant he was very reliable, Paddington felt even more pleased.
No niin. Kun Paddington auttaa, prosessi on sotkuinen, siinä on odottamattomia käänteitä ja kaikki odotukset ylittävä, onnellinen loppu. Täydellistä iltasatukamaa: sopivaa toistoa ja ihanan sotkuisen prosessin päättävä katharsis, jonka jälkeen on mukavaa käärylöityä lämpimään petiin maha täynnä kaakaota ja marmeladileipiä.
I may have got these on audible for my children, who are loving them, but really it’s a great excuse to revisit my favourite childhood author. Very funny indeed. It’s just such a pleasure to revisit them. Wonderful and fantastically read by High Bonneville.
The last Paddington book, and now we are sad! The children have loved hearing these stories, and so have I!
Paddington Helps Out Plot: A lovable, little, bear from London experiences 1st time adventures of taking in a picnic, attending a auction, trying his hand at fixing things, going to the Cinema, making toffee, doing laundry, and going to a restaurant.
And then some of the things he tries and does really good at initially I think end up going left for him because of Mr. Curry.
But this is the thing why does Mr. Curry KEEP asking Paddington to do stuff for him when he knows that half the time how it’ll probably end up.
For more review, check out my blog Craft-CycleA very nice continuation of the Paddington stories. I love that this collection is themed as Paddington tries to help the Brown family and all the mayhem that ensues from building a magazine rack to going to do laundry. Humorous stories that will make the reader fall in love with Paddington all over again. The stories in this collection are just a fun and entertaining as the first two books in the series. I greatly enjoyed it.
The first Paddington book, and perhaps the second, too, have been the best so far by a long way. In this novel, Paddington bear gets up to some very funny-peculiar and funny-ha-ha mischief, but none of his adventures are as good as they are in A Bear Called Paddington and More About Paddington. However, I still liked this book and find Paddington a very - how shall I put it? - interesting character!
These stories are still so stinking fun! I can't believe it's taken me this long to read through the actual Paddington books! The cinema the Browns visited seemed so fancy. And I almost feel sorry for Mr. Curry with his poor kitchen table.True, I still don't know how much my little guy is getting out of me reading these to him (I read while he plays or eats), but I'm enjoying it. So there's that.
This was a hilarious read. There were around 6 stores or episodes related to different adventures of paddington. I definitely laughed out loud.I could visually imagine every scene based on what I was reading. I started reading this loud for my son but once he fell asleep i continued to read through this book. This being my first paddington book apart from the movie ... thoroughly enjoyed it.
I'm getting a bit bored of Paddington and find these books very formulaic (with delightfully funny moments) but the kids are still completely into it! After I finished this, I read them a non-Paddington book and it barely kept their attention. Now we're back to Paddington, #4, and they are delighted again! So four stars for the kids and two stars for me equals three stars.
I’m so enjoying these Paddington books, the audiobooks are amazing.
We were sad that Stephen Fry didn't narrate this one, but Hugh Bonneville was also excellent.
Fun children audiobook
207 - 2018
Michael Bond came up with a formula and nailed it every time. My daughter absolutely loves these Paddington stories, so I do too.
I kind of love the fact that Paddington is a total cheapskate and this is not presented as a bad thing.
Super cute!
lovely children's book
So funny! Hugh Bonneville is a perfect choice for narrator (a worthy successor to Stephen Fry), especially if you're a fan of the films.
Sweet, amusing, playful, and magic!I only wish I could get out of troubles as easily as Paddington!
Iltasatukirja esikoiselle, hauskoja kertomuksia Paddington-karhun seikkailuista.
It was cute. The kids liked it.
The Paddington books are always such a great palate cleanser from life and this one is no exception to that rule. Brims with love and kindness and trying hard and (most often) failing in some spectacular manner only to be forgiven.
As a devoted reader, I hope so too, as I thoroughly enjoy going on adventures with this sweet, well-meaning bear.
We also follow him to a picnic, movie theater, auction house, fancy restaurant and a launderette.It was in reading that chapter,"Trouble at the Launderette," that I realized Paddington and I have shared a similar, traumatic experience.
(All the drawings by Illustrator Peggy Fortnum of the determined, adorable bear add to the treasure that is "Paddington Helps Out").
Paddington enjoys the lights of Piccadilly Circus and so do I, vicariously delighting in their glow through him.
No matter what he tries to do, Paddington runs into trouble, but always comes out with a positive attitude and a good experience.These new, brightly colored editions of the Paddington books can help a new generation of readers love the classic stories.
Some of the moments are very British and younger readers might need explanations on certain English terms like cinema, but readers who are a little older or reading with their parents will love the adventures that Paddington has.
Paddington Helps Out is another classic that children of all ages can enjoy.
Like A Bear Called Paddington, the first instalment in the Paddington series, Paddington Helps Out is set in London, UK.
Again, Michael Bond takes us to familiar places like the Browns’ home, the market, or Mr Gruber’s fascinating shop.
It is just wonderful to see the world through his eyes.Like all the books in the series, Paddington Helps Out is divided into short stories that are connected to each other.
The stories in this book are about Paddington trying to help out, but it wouldn’t be him if things would go as planned.
We have this in an omnibus with several other Paddington books: A Bear Called Paddington - An Omnibus Including: A Bear Called Paddington, More About Paddington, Paddington Helps Out, Paddington at Large, Paddington Marches On
