https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76952.The_Mark_on_the_Door
Another great Hardy Boys story, this time featuring airplanes, submarines (complete with Chet as a torpedo and a matador!), and a helicopter! The boys risk life and limb to bust up yes another smuggling ring. This one was, again, fast-paced and chockfull of cliffhangers and clever sleuthing and a cool survival technique. Now on to the Hidden Harbor Mystery!
Yeah, don't judge. My brothers got me hooked on these books years ago. And I do want to eventually finish the entire series, same as I want to read all the original Nancy Drew mysteries. Language, Abuse and Lust Ratings: All 5 stars, just like a classic book should be :).
OK mystery book, but not nearly as good as Nancy Drew.
The classic boy detectives by Frank Dixon--I read ALL of them in my younger years, one I ran out of Nancy Drew books.
The Hardy Boys are brother amateur detectives, aspiring to follow in their famous father's footsteps.
Frank Hardy is the elder of the two and has dark hair.
Joe Hardy is the younger brother, and has blond hair and blue eyes.
The stories are an unaging series, in which Frank and Joe are always 18 and 17 years of age, respectively.
In the original series the brothers were a younger 16 and 15 years of age, but their ages were increased during the revision process that began in 1959.
It was super easy to understand what was happening and you really get to know the characters the more you read along.
I personally love the Hardy Boys series and am slowly working my way up reading all 56 books.
If you are not familiar with this series, the Hardy Boys are brothers who solve all types of mysteries.
The end of every book makes you want to read more and see more of their crazy adventures (that's why the made 56 books).
All in all, this book is very much worth reading and I almost guaranty you that you will not be disappointed.
Once again the Hardy's stumble on a case connected to a case their dad is working on, so he gets paid for doing nothing as usual. And to think, the case all began because the boys didn't think a Mexican could drive a speedboat (or something like that).
Like usual, this series delivers.
Excellent series for young readers - highly recommended. I read these books when I was 10 - 15 years of age.
After investigating the theft of a valuable boat, Frank and Joe head to Mexico with their best friend Chet to find the thieves, and end up in danger in the mountains of Baja California! Dixon takes his heroes on a grand journey in this exciting entry!
Criminal mastermind exploiting indigenous Mexicans by claiming to be a god while he uses them to smuggle oil out of Mexico via secret rail line and stolen submarine? Ha! Even he is no match for the Hardy boys and their friends!
Ate these up as a kid and usually got them as gifts for birthdays, Christmas and other events. This edition would be quite dated now and I believe they have updated the books. The author was a pseudonym for a plethora of writers who contributed to this series.
A REALY AWSOME CLIFF HANGER!
Excellent book
Fenton and the boys go to Mexico and search for a missing witness! This was actually a pretty cool story. I really enjoyed their travels.
Better than book 12, this one was filled with action and adventure and had the added advantage of being set in large part in Mexico.
The Hardys crack another case. Although really, all they did was follow bad guys around. And they were captured like a dozen times. Not their best work, actually.
i spicficlly like the amount of travaling in this hardy boys book. they zoom from place to place in cars, airplanes, and suberines. my favorite part is when chet fires a torpido from a subarine.
One of my favorite childhood series.
The Hardy's found a letter by there door saying stop fallowing them or they will be killed the next day they talked to there father about going to mexico where a submarine had been spotted.
Tico set them up with a boat for the day they went to the cave on the way the boat broke so they had to swim to shore.
They heard they were going 200 miles away from the place so they started walking towards mexico city when they were so thirsty they stopped and opened some cactus and drank the water.
How I Came To Read This Book: It was a selection in my children's fiction class in my last year of uni.The Plot: The Hardy Boys end up in Mexico...and many racial stereotypes ensue as they become involved with a band of Indians and an odd oil smuggling operation, which also involves hostages and a 'native' guide to the area.
The Good & The Bad: The main reasons we read this book were to show that a) not all fiction for children is continually, erm, appropriate, or at least PC in today's world, and also to contrast the differences between the Nancy Drew series and the Hardy Boys.
The mark on the door is a story by Frank Dixon that involves Mexican beliefs in bad luck and stuff.
the Hardy's investigate vanished workers of a small Mexican town.
A strange symbol is marked on the doors of those who were gone.
The Hardy's travel around the area to find the missing people.
Eventually they stumble upon a cave with the prisoners inside.
The Hardy's escape from the help of their chubby friend.
They successfully arrest all of them and free the Mexican prisoners.
The Hardy's are rewarded once again and go on a spending spree.
This book has a really attention grabbing beginning because it makes you want to know what that sub that the hardy boys saw was for, why it was there, who was on it, what was it doing, and how was it related to the mystery followed up by the sub sighted in mexico which made me wonder if the subs were related.
Picked this up along with a couple of other HB books at The Bookworm in Cranbury as a nostalgic act. This was a 1934 edition and probably the same as what I read when young. I did not remember this book but must have read it. It was fun to read but knowing how these books were created it was easy to see the formulaic structure.
The book was good. It could have been better, because some of the events are a bit confusing. For the most part though it was great. The fact that these two brothers were able to solve a mystery that no body would talk about is amazing.
In which the author is at his most racist (though the book is still great), the illustrator is at his most racist (though the illustrations are still the most hilarious in any Hardy Boys book yet), and not even the Mexicans can get their Spanish right.
The book was good. The Hardy brothers are touring Mexico, trying to solve a mystery. The problem was that they could not find anyone who would talk about it. This was very interesting, because it was even harder to get clues.
They were constantly being captured and it ended somewhat abruptly, but pretty good for a Hardy Boys book.
read when I was 10 through 13
Dixon, Franklin W.
I am on page 55. Frank and Joe are helping someone save his son. his son got kidnapped and they are trying to save him. They are trying to be a disguise.
