https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/239810.The_Best_Christmas_Pageant_Ever
Have now read this aloud to my kids two years in a row.
One year I hope to be able to make it through the end without sobbing.2012 reread: It's just not Christmas until you've cried over this book!2013 reread: Managed to hold it together until the very last paragraph.
My kids think I'm nuts for bawling at the end of every Christmas story I read them.
We had to sit in the parking lot for five minutes to finish (per the kids' request).
I was able to bawl silently in the dark.
Will never be able to finish that dry-eyed.

It's like only 100-pages, so it definitely just gets in and says what it wants to say, no fluffing about.
It IS The BEST Christmas Pageant Ever.One thing I really took notice of, as an old grey melon instead of a 12-year-old reading...was that it's narrated by a Nameless Person.
But the story is really about the horrible, no-good Herdman family.
Like the book is about them hearing the story of Jesus for the FIRST TIME EVER.
Like the Christmas Story can make us all zone out after a while because we've heard it a dozen times.
A wonderful story from my youth that I will add to my annual reading list (and hope to get my son hooked soon)!The Herdmans are a collection of six hellion children.
When they hear about free and plentiful refreshments are being offered at Sunday School, they decide to attend one week.
Soon thereafter, they find themselves with all the staring roles and take it upon themselves to interpret the story in their own Herdman way.What a classic and I am so pleased to have found this and relived some of my favourite childhood memories from my youth.Like/hate the review?
For while the Herdman children might be little hellions, most if not all of their pranks are pretty well hilarious, and indeed, when Imogene Herdman bops Alice Wendleken on the head and claims she has cooties, I for one always do have to laugh uproariously, as honestly, if there is one person whom I absolutely cannot stand, whom I absolutely hate in The Best Christmas Pageant Ever it is outwardly, externally prim and proper but internally oh so nasty and bigoted Alice Wendleken (and of course also her mother who is just as bad if not even worse and has made her daughter equally judgmental and annoying).
We know the story of Mary and Joseph and the baby Jesus, and we've memorized songs about angels and Wise Men. Somewhere along the line, it's easy for it to become rote knowledge, rather than something deep and profound that touches your heart.
But what would happen if you watched a whole family learn this glorious mystery?
A family not filled with churchy people--in fact, filled with kids that make churchy people turn and run.
Then I was so touched by how the Herdmans were swept away by the story of Jesus--while still remaining Herdmans at the core--that I was nearly moved to tears.
I laughed throughout this hilarious story of the Herdmans consisting of Ralph, Imogene, Leroy, Claude, Ollie, and Gladys.
This is honestly a short and sweet story about a clan of terrible kids who have their whole neighborhood and community in terror of what they are going to do next.
I did laugh at one line that said that the Herdmans were the worst kids in the history of the world, they lied, stole, and played with matches.Yes, apparently playing with matches is equal to all of that.
I read this for The (Mostly) Dead Writers Society 2016 Genre Fiction challenge.
I would read this book over and over again at Christmas time. The kids were bad, really bad, but their circumstances were tough! I just loved the whole pageant setup and seeing the characters grow. Also a fun fact: Fairuza Balk from The Craft was in the TV movie!!
This is a gem of a story, with a tearjerker ending (well, it was for me). It's a classic story of a family of children who don't fit in because they are so different, and how they grow to fit in as their classmates begin to know and understand them. I love it--great to read any time, not just around Christmas!
Audio book performed by Elaine StritchThe six Herdman kids are a handful – and then some.
They lie, steal, smoke cigars, hit little kids, cuss their teachers, and even set fire to a tool shed.When they show up at Sunday school (because they thought there would be snacks) just as the Christmas Pageant is being cast, they quickly take over.
No one else will volunteer to take a major role for fear of being attacked by the Herdmans, so Imogene will be Mary, Ralph will play Joseph, the other Herdman boys will be the kings, and Gladys will be the Angel of the Lord – the only speaking part.
Read this in fifth grade, what a silly wonderful fantastic holiday read.UPDATED 12/21/2011So I re-read this.“The Herdmans were absolutely the worst kids in the history of the world.”pg.
1Nothing says Christmas like a bunch of asshole kids taking over the Nativity play.
Friends, The Herdmans are children I can get behind.
They are bad kids and OWN IT.
Totally my type of children.
As you well know, I pretty much give in to all of my urges and this holiday season I had that urge to re-read The Best Christmas Pageant Ever by Barbara Robinson.Read the rest of my review here
This is a short children's book that can be read in less than an hour.
It was recommended to me by a friend in my ward who says she reads this every year to help her get into the Christmas Spirit.
It is a funny, playful story about a Christmas Pageant that happens in a community every year.
This year the pageant was a little different after being taken over by the 6 wild hellions in the Herdman family.
I enjoyed this quick read and will look forward to reading it with my kids next year.
Second Read: November 24, 2017 - November 30, 2017I read this with my grade 6 class. They voted on the next book and this won. They enjoyed it. First Read: When I was in elementary school I had a teacher read this to my class. I remember this being hilarious and something I looked forward to having read to me.
I just read this for the 50th time.
There is not another book, not counting picture books like Hats for Sale, that I have read more often.
If you've ever had the pleasure of putting on a pageant you know this could really happen.
If I haven't convinced you to spend the hour reading this yet, consider this: You will think about the Nativity differently.
You will, like me, always think of Mary and Joseph scared and unsure, an angel shouting the good news at the shepherds, and Leroy and his brothers bearing ham.
It follows the story of a town's Christmas pageant, which is overtaken one year by the Herdmans, the worst kids in the history of the world.
They lie and cheat and smoke cigars, burn down buildings, and are probably responsible for 90% of all bruises incurred by the elementary school aged children in the town.
Though the changes in the Herdmans aren't extreme and don't even seem to affect most of them, the rest of the church community, and especially the narrator, are somewhat more moved.
As a child, I was much much more interested in the crazy antics of the Herdman children than I was about any of the religion.
Oh my goodness, this book! I went into it unsure what to expect, but I was certainly not disappointed. It's an engaging story, chocked with side-splitting humor. The small town vibes, the delightfully funny writing style, the main character's voice, this book is a gem.Since reading, I had the privilege of attending a live performance of The Best Christmas Pageant Ever, produced by a local theatre group. They did a fabulous job of bringing the story to life! <3Four angel wings out of five!
When a chance lie brings them to church in late November for the first time ever, everyone thinks they'll get bored of it.
But late November is when the church Christmas pageant starts, and soon the Herdmans have blackmailed or bullied everyone to the point that when the pageant organizer asks for volunteers for Mary, Joseph, the three Wise Men, and the Angel of the Lord, no one speaks up but the Herdmans.
I imagine the Herdmans went home after the pageant, back to their old lives of fighting and swearing and smoking and blackmailing their peers, but I like to think they went home a little changed, too.
Every year the Christmas pageant is the same.
The church kids don't want to be shepherds or wise men or caroling angels, and the parents don't want to sit through the same old thing all over again.
The Herdmans are the worse children in town--maybe the worst kids ever.
Even worse, they want to be in the Christmas pageant!This story is adorable.
It will be a Christmas favorite.
This book is about the Herdmans first true Christmas.
These rough and tumble kids from the wrong side of the track have never heard the Christmas story before, and they dive headfirst into the store.
"Hey!
Unto you a child is born!"Muzzy has read this aloud to us every Christmas since the dawn of time and Christmas isn't Christmas until she does so.
She always cries through the end.The book points out that Mary and Joseph were just people.
They had days when they woke up on the wrong side of the bed, and they managed to burn the bread, and cut themselves and stub their toes.
Because God can use anybody--even an unwed pregnant teenager like Mary, or a family of bad kids like the Herdmans.Reread: 12/22/15--Well, Christmas is Christmas now.
Reread:12/18/16--My brother read the last chapter this year because my mom was crying.
This is fantastic!!! I can't believe I found a Christmas book for my nieces and it's not even sappy!!! It's so funny and it's perfect for both of their age groups and I love it. A lot. The Herdmans stole my heart.
My daughter brought this book home the other day from school and I re read it again for the first time in years!!! I even read it to her!! Classic book!!!
Modern Christmas stories targeting the young are not usually stories that adults would enjoy reading on their own; they often seem to center around popular children’s cartoon characters.
The Best Christmas Pageant Ever also has characters we already know before we start reading it: the woman who volunteers to run everything and doesn’t want to cede her territory, the overly prim and proper schoolgirl, and a family of unmanageable kids.Okay, you’ve probably never met any family quite like the Herdmans, but you’ll love meeting them in this book, and seeing how their first interaction with the Christmas story brings about small but very meaningful and believable changes.
It's one of the best children's Christmas books out there.
Besides the fact that it's hilarious, I love that it poses some interesting questions about the traditional Christmas story that we've always heard.
I also loved the choice of narration--having a kid narrate was a wise choice because it just added to the humor of the story.
It did have a nice, cozy moral at the end, reminding us that no matter how funny the story was, there's a reason for the season.
Overall, I'd recommend this if you need a good laugh during the holiday season!
"The Herdmans were absolutely the worst kids in the history of the world.
They lied and stole and smoked cigars (even the girls) and talked dirty and hit little kids and cussed their teachers and took the name of the Lord in vain and set fire to Fred Shoemaker's old broken-down toolhouse." Fantastic Christmas story.
I know I've seen the movie at least a half a dozen times but hadn't remembered if I'd ever read the book, so I checked it out from the library and sat down to read it.
This is simply an absolutely beautiful story. It insights compassion within young and old and reminds us of the true significance of the Christmas season. We just love this book. Best done as a read aloud.
Still terrific!
Travis and I read this on Christmas Eve. Just as wonderful if not better than I remembered! Next year I need to get it out early enough to read to the kids. Classic!
We half read this book aloud and half listened to the library audiobook.
because that's what you do with this gem of a book: reimagine the Christmas story with a dirty, feisty Mary, played by someone who doesn't know "how it ends".
you see this 2000 year old story through new eyes, and remember what the words really mean instead of just reading past them because you've heard them so many times.
And as Imogene Herdman starts to cry when the true meaning of the Christmas story washes over her, you can't help but do the same.
LOVED it.
One reason why I do is because the book truly captures the getting-it moment, the moment when one realizes the true meaning of Christmas.
The toolhouse burned right down to the ground, and I think that surprised the Herdmans.
What no one was expecting was that the story itself would have an impact on the actors leading it to be THE BEST CHRISTMAS PAGEANT EVER.It is narrated in the first person.
So it captures the DRAMA of the Christmas story in a fresh way.
It isn't that someone reads the story the first time, and all six kids suddenly decide to pray a little prayer and get baptized.
