https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/885048.God_of_the_Machine
Isabel Patterson argues most persuasively for political freedom as the absolutely required groundwork for laissez faire capitalism, the economic basis for the the high civilization we now enjoy in America.
A great virtue of her work is how well she supports her thesis with rigorous explanations of how the absence of economic planning and coercion makes possible the incredibly efficient and productive action of Adam Smith's "invisible hand," in comparison to which all welfare schemes pale.She compares the political and economic structure of a society to a machine with a complicated, long-range energy circuit, the motive power for which is human creativity and ambition.
Patterson herself thought the book too condensed, and I certainly found it packed tight with ideas and information that I will need to unpack and corroborate with further thought and reading.
First published 70 years ago, The God of the Machine verges on greatness; it will in my view play a part in any future renaissance of individualism.No one could have written a better review of Isabel Paterson's best-known work than her one-time friend Ayn Rand, who did so for The Objectivist Newsletter in 1964.Miss Rand pointed out that the difficulty in reading this book is due to its lack of organization and the failure of Mrs. Paterson to outline her theory.
This book is vitally important. It's a bit awkward and not terribly easy to read, but it is worth a slow, deep reading, even a second or third reading. There are some razor-sharp passages that cut into all the collectivist nonsense we are ensconced in today.

It was a nice introduction to one of the mothers of libertarianism. Paterson had some really ingenious arguments against collectivism. It was rather tedious to read the first section on the history of the Ancient Greece but as soon as she began to move to the Dark Ages it became interesting. One problem I've had with this book is the use of thermodynamics and physics as comparison to the circuit of currency, labour, production and goods. Otherwise this is a must read for libertarians.
There are a few books that are strangely uneven, not in that they are a mix of good and bad, but how all the good it mixed in the book and is presented to the reader.
Sometimes it feels like the main point is not coming through, but other times Paterson really nails it and is clear as a skyless heaven.
There is a lot to like, there is a reason why Isabel Paterson was revered by the early libertarian movement - and that shows, but I think her lack in writing nonfiction books is what makes this book uneven.

It is exactly as exciting and fast based as a dissertation on individualism written in the early 1940s sounds like it would be. I was really hoping that my review would say something like, "if you can just keep your eyes open there are some really good points on individualism", but I just can't. I couldn't keep my eyes open, and I also found the entire premise of comparing government structures and individual activity to mechanical mechanisms and energy an odd and not very intuitive or convincing concept.
Garbage so far... People are circuits or something. Something about energy and weak attempts linking this to engineering (hence the god machine in the title). I'm not sure to tell you the truth. A bunch of jibberish as now. I'll press on, but not because I want to but because I must complete things I start. Too much of this pseudo-intellectual shit.
I started off enthusiastically underlining quotes, but well before the end felt like I was in one of those conversations where someone goes on, and on, and on, and on, about their initially interesting idea, until you only remember afterward how obsessive they were.One of the quotes I underlined:What the past shows, by overwhelming evidence, is that the imponderables outweigh every material article in the scales of human endeavour.
They acquire those advantages because they are powerful, having devised on correct principles the political structure which allows the flow of energy to take the proper course.The problem:What Mrs Paterson meant by 'imponderables' is not what I mean by imponderables.
Yes, government meddling goes much, much, too far.
The British empire ended three hundred and fifty years later, when England again debased her coinage, defaulted on her debts, confiscated private property, and abrogated personal liberty."-Isabel Paterson, the God of the Machine"The lust for power is most easily disguised under humanitarian or philanthropic motives...An amiable child wishing for a million dollars will usually 'intend' to give away half of this illusory wealth.
The hatred has a deep motive back of it; for it is true that nothing but the political means will yield unearned public adulation."-Isabel Paterson, the God of the Machine
Paterson is a fascinating woman, who is said to have read "every book in the library," grew up in one of America's last real frontier areas, on ranches and Indian Reservations, a self educated, self made newspaper columnist.This book has often been criticized for the failure of the engineering analogy.
Yet it seems, at some point in writing it, she gave up on the idea, and only awkwardly inserts the analogy into the text at various points to give it some continuity.That being said, there are many gems scattered throughout this work-- many political, historical, economic, and for lack of a better word, spiritual concepts which she really elucidates, that I've never heard explained better or even attempted elsewhere.
Otherwise, Paterson presents many classical liberal ideas in a strong and convincing form and her denunciation of the inevitable disasters that follow from attempts to run a society on humanitarian principles is worth the price of the book on its own.
I would have been happier with the finished product if she had spent more time elaborating her theoretical ideas about the nature of society and economy, many of which are original and highly nuanced, rather than devoting the first half of the book to a compressed summary of history that contains little original material.
Isabel Paterson offers an original theory of history based on the metaphor of the machine, with humanity as the dynamo.
(One might venture to call this "steampunk political theory.") As one of the "big three" publications of feminist-individualist thought in 1943 (the others being The Discovery of Freedom by Rose Wilder Lane and The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand), Paterson remains a lasting influence on the classical liberal/libertarian tradition.
But parts of it remain eerily relevant and meaningful today, especially the sections on credit, humanitarianism, and the educational system.
An excellent read.
This self-made frontier woman-turned-philosopher lived in a time of economic hardship and witnessed a variety of radical government "solutions." She works through the manner in which the free market sustains and expands itself, as well as the effect of anything siphoning wealth or energy away from productive pursuits.
She explains that socialism can only exist on the margins of successful market economies by drawing off the market's success to sustain itself.
Some of her specific positions may seem dated (being in favor of the gold standard, for instance), but her larger points (the importance of avoiding inflationary policies, in the preceding case) remain current.
I highly entrust this book.Paterson's "The God of the Machine" was an analysis of recorded history.
She defended individualism as the cradle of our moral, and political progression.
Simplifying the definition of economic freedom through looking back the Western civilization where Phoenicians merchant traversed thousand years a go along the midland waterway to exchange goods with the Greeks.She mentioned that when political power being withheld from the economic activity, and production was left to private management the stream of energy will continue to build up slowly in progression that which, (quote from Paterson), "The country which is less governed is best governed".
This is a brilliant, broadly theoretical interpretation of history and politics. Paterson believed that social and economic relation are literally power relations which can be described and explained as energy transmission circuits. I would strongly recommend this book to any student of general history. So why didn't I give it five stars? Because the argument is difficult to follow, a strange flaw in a book written by a newspaper person. I greatly profited in reading this by using the text-to-speech function in the Kindle.
Unfortunately, I had to return this book to the library before I got to finish it, due to some thieving little hands stealing it and reading it before I could. The first half, however, was great. This had been added to my book sale list.
The book was OK, good maybe. Paterson's approach to this subject is unique, but also a bit weird. I can't highly recommend this book, although I agree with much of what she writes. Just not on par with others of this genre.
While I think this is a fairly good book and had good conclusions, the analogies to engineering almost make it unreadable. I thought they were out of place and added nothing.
Very good book. Got a little long at points, but very good treatise on history, economics, and government up to the 1940's.
An Amazing book about government. A must read for a person wanting to change their nation and learn the propose of government
Ironic I finished the book the very week of Milton Friedman's birthday. It was an historically pillared defense of the logic and power of capitalism.
Very interesting view on history. Somewhat hard to parse, but generally a nice read.
