https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/578736.Zig_Ziglar_s_Secrets_of_Closing_the_Sale
Some people may be turned off because a lot of this book is common sense but it is always good to be reminded and I find that one of the appealing things in this book because he states it in a way that opens your mind.I would recommend this book for ANYONE and EVERYONE that has a career in sales and a career in anything else.
You get the idea, you sell everyday.
Especially your child when he wants you to buy that toy.
And isn't that what you truly want?
What hasn't Zig sold in his life?? By the end of this book, I wanted to buy some Tupperware from a slick, southern salesman in a nice suit!Zig is a master storyteller and wordsmith. He had me chuckling out loud (not quite LOL) with his endless stories, smooth selling techniques and southern charm. I may start using language like "Mr. or Mrs. Prospect" thanks to him.The audio book was definitely more enjoyable with Zig himself doing the reading. RIP, Zig. I learned a lot from the Salesman of salesman.
The customer ends up persuading himself.“If your prospect wants to invest X dollars but his needs come to X-plus dollars, then your real sale is the amount beyond what the prospect had already committed, in his own mind.”“Make it easy for them to buy.” “Break it down into small amounts so your prospects can afford it.” Tell them if they think about the life of the product, it only costs X per month, day, etc.If a prospect asks for something specific and you can’t provide it, offer an alternative.
Super entertaining and fun book to read plus Zig is a genius at sales. The biggest idea I took from this book is having the belief and being proud of your product, there's also tons of other cool stuff but when Zig Ziglar talked about belief it felt really powerful. Really cool book if you're into sales or marketing, definitely check it out!
High performers demonstrated great integrity with their follow-through and belief that the sale is not complete until the product is installed and functioning satisfactorily."5- "The critical step: in the world of selling is this step of honesty which is your total conviction, your complete belief that the product or service you sell is the best buy for the prospect."6- "Sympathy means you feel like another person feels.
If you know how your prospect thinks and feels, you're definitely going to sell more of what you're selling because you will communicate more effectively."7- "One myth—that a salesperson should not get involved with customer concerns other than the purpose of the sales call—was exploded, as was the concept that price isn't important and that you should "promise them anything" to close a sale.
When in that context, you can't help but give this guy amazing props for his groundbreaking (at the time) ability to get to the nut of the sales process.
All those things were wonderful, but I couldn't help but feel queasy in my stomach while reading it.
Today's sales often are about finding true "fits" for the products that you sell.
So - amazing book for Zig's time - truly a groundbreaking leader in sales, and was instrumental in getting to where we are in sales today.
A must-read for those who like to see 'the big picture' of how sales got to where it is today.
I quickly realized that even though my job is not technically "sales," I sell (or fail to sell) everyday.
Realizing this and then learning from the top sales man in the world will help us all go along way.
We must listen to them to understand what they need.
As Zig says, selling is transfer of feelings.
If you don't believe in what your selling you won't sell it.I listened to the Audio version which is performed live in front of an audience.
I highly recommend everyone listen to the audible version.
Learn and make the world a better place!

This is the first book I have read by Zig Ziglar. I enjoyed the book very much. The book had a lot of information and read very quickly. At times I felt like there was too much information and at over 600 pages this book does take up some time to get through.
This has a lot of great ideas and good info. I would like to make closing not feel like "selling" at all. I want to help people. Zig has a good starting point for that by encouraging honest and trust and faith in what you are doing. So a good read, but it did get kind of tedious by the end.
Started off really powerfully - the second half is not so applicable to me. Listened to one of his presentations too - a lot is duplicated in the book. Maybe the cynics are right once you've read one you've read 'em all - then again - maybe I just need a new author and less of a full moon!!
The audiobook is very hard to listen to. It's outdated and he likes to hear himself talk. Get the book or read the reviews where someone has listed the top 10 tips to be a successful at closing the sale.
This book had some good points in it. However, I don't think that the overall difference between small and large sales was taken into account. More recent studies would debunk some of his points, however, he was a great salesman and there is a lot to learn from him.
Great content but terrible layout. The author was all over the place and at times incredibly redundant. This book should be half the size. People in my field swear by it and I was super disappointed.
“Happiness is not pleasure, it’s victory”.Prospect: has a need for the product, possible desire to own the product, & finances to buy it.Use anxiety in my favorSales is a transference if emotion.
It’s a transference of feeling.
Benefits of art:We buy what it does (not what it is).
Use both.Words that help sell:Collector, investor, understand, new, love, easy, discovery, deserve, happy, value, fun, you, yours, owners, patronsWords NOT to say:Cost, price, sell/sale/sold, buy, deal, pay, decision, hard/difficult, obligation, worry, loss/lose, contract, hurt, bad, liable, fail, I, me, my, mineDon’t cuss.
Tell stories about the art.
If you repeat to the prospector why the price is rediculous they will tell why they think it is instead of you having to explain yourself.
If you invest a little less than you should in the product doesn't do what you wanted it to do then you've lost everything.You can be beat on price but not on cost.
Price is a one-time thing and cost as a lifetime thing.
Kinda like the "you get what you pay for" phrase.It's easier to explain price one time then apologize for quality later.
Ask the prospector what they think a fair price is.
"Since all of us sell every day, doesn't it make sense to learn how to do it more effectively?"Zig Ziglar wasn't just a great salesman, he was a great storyteller.
Not every potential customer is going to buy from you, and oftentimes you will never know the reason for someone not buying, but you can increase your chances with the proper techniques."The prospects who say yes will not run you out of the sales business.
But those prospects who say maybe will not only put you out of business, they'll run you out of your mind"The book is an easy read, if there ever was any.
Would call this more a common sense psychology book than a sales book, but it is a classic and many other books have been inspired from it.You can sell more by asking than telling.Learn as much as you can about your prospect and capitalize on that information.Many people do not know what they want because they do not know what is available.You can have everything in life you want if you will just help enough other people get what they want.People buy what they want when theu want it more than they want the money it costs.If you know how to do something - and then do it - you will always have a job.
Ziglar is a masterful communicator. He gives helpful sales tips and affirms the more transcendent goals in life like family, relationships, giving, and relationship with God. That said, he is not passive, but rather conveys a message that is persistent and relentless when it comes to hearing "no" from prospects.
Loved it! This book is gold for any entrepreneur or person who has to sell to make a living. Where was this book 5 years ago? Really good material. Now, it's not a book made to be read once and be done with it. The amount of selling technics and tools of closing sales is unbelievable! I really enjoyed it. 5/5
Fantastic sales presentation, Mr Ziglar made it easy, funny and right on the dot. Be persistent, constant but listen to their body language and words. Offer a solution to their problems, be sincere. Be present and act upon it. Love the idea of been aware of the magnificent connection between emotions and logic which creates a magnificent combination for successfully closing a sale.
It all went well until Zig started preaching the gospel of jesus out of nowhere. I bought this book to learn sales and faith is not part of what I hoped for. Some parts at the beginning were useful but until I got to that point the whole book became useless and I don't know how Mr. Zig will repay my time.
In one word: outdated.This book received two stars because there were some (minor) tidbits that can be applied. However, Ziglar's attitude really rubbed me the wrong way. Some will argue he was "just the product of his time." And while this might be true... I'm not really interested in becoming much like him.
This took me a long time, but only because it's so substantial. Useful for every creative as well, because we need to sell our work, not just make it. From a different period and some societal aspects, like family dynamics, have changed in the intervening decades so it can perhaps come across as old school, but that doesn't make it less relevant or smart.
This is one of my favorite books of all times which I read way back in the 1990’s. I’ve been told that it’s no longer relevant in today’s social media society, but I tend to disagree. I think this is one of the best sales books of all time.
sách rất hay và hữu ích, không chỉ những lời khuyên và chiến thuật vô cùng hữu ích cho bán hàng mà còn rất hữu ích đối với mọi ngành nghề!!!!
Outdated surface level advice. Read books on psychology instead
What a great book good motivational read
audio many great points were presented in a good way
Enthusiastic book with well put dialogue and true stories to help you remember three lessons of the book. i will no doubt re-reference this book as needed. R.I.P Zig.
