https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80568.Sam_s_Letters_to_Jennifer
Gag. Every cheesy, tearjerker plot ever conceived is contained in this one novel. Among them: (view spoiler)[beloved grandmother in a coma; grandmother was a victim of spousal abuse; heroine is a widow and also suffered a miscarriage; she falls in love with a guy who turns out to have an inoperable brain tumor. Even Jennifer's cat has a brush with death (but brain tumor guy saves him with CPR) (hide spoiler)].Also, I was expecting this book to be about a man writing love letters to a woman but Sam is the grandmother.
Yes. I am a fan of James Patterson.
Not because of his crime series.
Not because of literary forms.
I invest tears in a book, especially if it is a story worth crying for.Call this corny or cheesy or plain stupid, I wouldn't care.
I cried in coffee shops, in libraries, in quiet rooms, and most especially, in my bedroom where it all lingered.
Let's see if another bucket of tears will be resulted from this novel...(After 8 hours of reading)I CRIED.
Please let me shed a tear as I reflect on the life lesson Sam imparted to Jennifer.
Sam's Letters to Jennifer is heartwarming and bittersweet. This book definitely gave me more than I expected. The cover, so Nicholas Sparks-ish did not lure me in. Actually it made me question was this a book I really wanted to read. The bittersweet sappy theme usually doesn't draw me in. It usually pushes me away. Too nice sometimes is too boring. There's a repetitive formula to these types of books that I have a hard time buying. But I said why not and decided to give it a try. I assumed it w
Sam's Letters to Jennifer is heartwarming and bittersweet.
Actually it made me question was this a book I really wanted to read.
I assumed it would be a woman reading letters from some long lost love but this story was not about that at all.
Sam is Jennifer's grandmother.
The first letter begins with a shocking revelation that motivates Jennifer to continue to read all the letters in hopes of learning her grandmothers secrets.
I did like the parallel between the relationship that was lost to death and how a second chance was given.
I may read other books by this author.
I loved this book. It starts with Jennifer going to her grandmother's lake house, because her grandmother, Sam, is in the hospital. Jennifer finds letters that her grandmother has written to her. As she reads them, she finds the true meaning of love, and gets to know some secrets about her grandmother. I loved this book, because we all would love to have met our parents or grandparents when they were young... to really know who they were. In a way, Jennifer got to do that.
her best friend; her grandmother just fell into a coma while the love of her life died a couple years back, partly because it was her fault.
The grandmother, sam, has left her letters in order to let her understand things in her life that no one else has.
She begins to understand how sam and her are very similar especailly on how they had given up on love.
I learned that if you want happiness, you shouldnt shut out things in your life that make you happy.
You shouldnt give up on life and love even if you hit rock bottom.
Oh I just could not stand it!
If I could have given it zero stars I would have!
I am not a big fan of overally emotional books, where you feel manipulated by the author in order to have a certain reaction.
I just felt like the whole story was over-the-top.
I love books and when I purchase a book (which isn't often, I usually get them from the library) I keep it.
I disliked this book so much that I couldn't stand to have it on my bookshelf.
I donated it to a charity.
In a nutshell: unrealistic, predictable, melodramatic, way too sappy.
”Please don’t shut out love- it’s the best thing about life.” The world works in mysterious ways, friends. And I believe in that saying now more than ever.I say this because I do not understand how any agent, editor, or publisher would allow such an abominably written book to be published. Jennifer has always had a close relationship with her grandmother, Sam. So, when Sam falls into a coma after a freak accident, Jennifer rushes to be by her side. While there she discovers a bundle of letters
And in the beginning, that’s what I got; a nice sweet story.But then apparently the author’s editor decided to take a vacation or not work for Patterson or something, because the writing was absolutely atrocious.
Because it’s not just the basic grammar and punctuation that’s bad; the entire plot of the book feels incomplete.
It was so bad I can’t really quite wrap my head around the fact that this book got published.
Patterson usually writes books with a co-writer and let me tell you; I hope they’re better than this book.
But, the dust jacket intrigued me, and I could tell it'd be a quick read like Sundays at Tiffany's, so I gave it a shot.Being a Minnesotan, I really enjoyed how the book was set in the Midwest.
In a culture where all of us either own a lake home or know someone who does, having a majority of the book take place in Lake Geneva was a real treat, especially since I read it in the last days of summer.While a simple book, Patterson does a good job of establishing strong bonds between Jennifer and her grandmother, Sam. Getting to know Sam's life in the midst of Jennifer dealing with her own after much heartache was enjoyable, light reading.Of course, a guilty pleasure book like this can't be without its predictability: tragedy causing main characters to not open up immediately, love developing between childhood friends, and a baby being the ultimate symbol of true love.
Another excellent novel from Patterson. He's a writing machine.
Her grandmother Samantha, took very ill with a heart attack and is in a coma in the hospital.When Jennifer arrives home there, she discovers a pack of letters which have been addressed specifically to her by Sam. In every letter, her grandma reveals many sad memories of her past.
Jennifer is shocked to discover this as she reads on in her grandma's story.Also, she runs into Brendan, the kid she nicknamed Scout when they were kids and played together.
They discover a newfound love, and have a summer romance.
I happened upon this book when I needed something to read and it was readily available on overdrive.
I also wanted something light and easy as I had just finished the Goldfinch and the Nightingale...
I probably should have researched this a little more because it was not light at all, but it was a very easy read.
A classic case of judging a book by its cover, or in my case, its title.
The relationship between Jennifer and Sam was beautiful.
Sam's letters were wonderful, sometimes sad, and full of unexpected information.
A solid three stars for a decent book.
My problem with it is that the author glamorized the relationship, like she was to be admired because she didn't leave her husband.
The best part of the book is this quote: "For a long time it had seemed to me that life was about to begin--real life.
Then life would begin.
At last it dawned on me that these obstacles were my life." --Father Alfred D'Souza The best part wasn't even written by the author.
This book was written by the same author as Sundays at Tiffany's, which I liked.
This emotionally driven story will take you on highs and lows and leave you breathless. It conveys the beauty and power I love, new beginnings and second chances. Love never dies.
Beautiful story about hope, faith and the great victory of true love

Uma história cativante sobre afetos, a importância do amor, da amizade e dos laços que unem as pessoas. Mas sobretudo é a história do amor, de como este muda as pessoas e permanece vivo mesmo quando se morre... Vale a pena amar, é o lema deste livro.
Mais uma vez não estava à espera de gostar tanto de um livro como gostei desse.Aliás, foi a primeira vez que me aconteceu ter pegado num livro às 10h30 da manhã e terminá-lo às 13h15 do mesmo dia...
menos de 4 horas para ler um livro de 208 páginas.Desde o inicio do livro que notámos uma leveza na escrita que se torna difícil de resistir a ler uma e mais uma página...Essa é a história de Jennifer e Sam, a sua avó e melhor amiga.
Jennifer é escritora de crónicas para o Jornal Tribune de Chicago e vive sozinha, após ter perdido o seu marido Danny à um ano e meio.
What I appreciate about Sparks' work is that it's poetic and romantic without being pretentious or overly wordy.
This was my first experience reading Patterson's work, and while the story is quite romantic (Oh, don't let me try to fool you!
It's not something I can quite put my finger on, but there were just times where I would be reading and think, "Hhmm....I feel like my little brother wrote that sentence." Again, it wasn't the plot itself that bothered me, just the lack of poetic beauty in the way it was sometimes told.
Hopefully, at least ONE other person can relate to what I'm trying to say.
This book was the sole reason I started to read books on a daily basis.
I used to hate to read until I was given this book.
I read it in one day and cried through the entire story.
I lived with and took care of my Mommom for 4 1/2 years while she was sick.
Mommom was my best friend in the whole world.
This book touched every crevice of my heart and soul.
The relationship that Sam and Jennifer had, was one similar to my Mommom and me.
Which, unfortunately, it did a couple years later.
This is by far the worst book I've ever read in my entire life... technically I listened to it with my best friend which was the only saving grace because we could make fun of it together. The writing was awful and the characters were so pathetic they were comical. I would give it less than one star if I could.
Um livro pequeno que nos fala da força de viver e não de sobreviver. Fala-nos de esperança, força de viver. Um livro que mesmo com poucas páginas me fez chorar. Romântico, sim, previsível também mas ainda assim um livro que não se deve deixar de ler
Being a big fan of Nicholas Sparks I am a seasoned veteran in wading through cliché girly mush that would make normal people vomit (and love every minute of it) Sparks novel's reduced me to sobbing quietly in my room over the last pages by the glow of the lamp on my nightstand, and always led to a little bit of emotional devastation at the hands of a paperback for a few weeks afterwards, but this book actually hurt me, and not in the good heartache way you want a novel like this to, it hurt me because of the many brain cells I lost to this mind numbing horrible novel.
http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=phoEev...Sam, grandmother Samantha, in coma, left letters for Jen about her secret affair with Doc (nickname).
When Sam falls into a coma, the narrator reads the letters, while getting entangled with a summer childhood pal Brendan Kellar, moved in nearby.
After Doc's last child leaves home, they marry, but keep the secret because their small town would gossip.
(I have a personal anti-secret marriages bias from bad experiences.) Sam wakes from the coma.
Brendan survives brain tumor surgery, which he'd declined until Jen came along.
When he has recuperated, the younger couple meet Doc, the local Reverend, but three weeks later, Sam dies.
seriam poucas para descrever os sentimentos que nele contém.É sobretudo uma história de amor.É sobretudo uma história sobre o amor incondicional entre uma avó e uma neta.
Elas são as melhores amigas.Praticamente todo o livro se passa no lago Genebra, em que o próprio lago e a casa da Sam (avó) são personagens.Jennifer (neta) já passou por muita coisa mas tem encontrado as forças necessárias na avó, que é daquelas pessoas que tem uma força inacreditável e para quem tudo está bem.
Daquelas pessoas que sofre injustiças mas que mesmo assim tem sempre um sorriso na cara.Mas, como avó que é, sofre as agruras da idade.
While at the cottage, Jennifer discovers her grandmother has left her a packet of letters that will reveal some secrets from her grandmother's past.
As Jennifer is slowly finding out the secrets about her grandparents, she is also discovering her feelings for Brendan, who is also staying at Lake Geneva.
"Sam's Letters to Jennifer" is what I call a perfect beach book.
None of the characters are particularly deep - Jennifer is supposed to be a workaholic but outside of one column, we never see her working and she soon ditches her job without a qualm.
"Sam's Letters to Jennifer" is a light, fluffy read - perfect for the beach or a rainy afternoon.
When at long last Sam does find true love, she can't leave her marriage because her true love is a widower with young-ish kids and, well, it's just completely inconceivable that people ever get divorced and remarry and have blended families.Jennifer does fall in love again but, wait - he's got terminal cancer!
Even one of Jennifer's cats - who we meet and are told are so important to her, but we don't really see for the rest of the story - has a brush with death.
but I will anyways :-)In the prologue, it's established that the main character, Jennifer, had lost her young husband, Danny, in a swimming accident 18 months before.
One of those two friends was named ...
Of course, Jennifer learns secrets so shocking she isn't sure what to do with them, but eventually learns to accept her grandmother for the imperfect woman she was.The book was a bit sappy for my taste, but due to the way it was mostly presented in "letters" it was a very fast read.
I was disturbed by the immorality in the book.
Especially the romance of Jennifer's grandmother by another man other than her husband.
The revelation of who "Doc" really was (you'll understand if you read it) left me cold.
There is no moral compass for these people, least of all Doc, which I found rather disconcerting.
The writing was passable, what you would expect in a weepy romance novel.
After you read this make a list of all the "tearjerk " moments and situations in this book.
Letters found for grandaughter to read of her past love life..
It's a touching summer romance story, and I enjoyed it more because it's set in a place I've been -- Lake Geneva, Wisconsin.
Jennifer, who lives in Chicago, rushes up to Lake Geneva to be with her grandmother and ends up staying for most of the summer.
She reads a few letters at a time, letters that her grandmother wrote to tell her about her life.This was a very sweet book to read, and just right for my summer!
This book was a bit of a shocker after reading quite a few books by Christian authors that kept their books very clean.
It was a very fast read, and is the story about a 30 something newspaper columnist that lives a pretty lonely life.
She heads to the lakeside town, and finds a bunch of letters to her from her grandma.
She'd asked for years to hear her grandma's story, and the letters tell Sam's story.
Throughout Jennifer's stay, she reads these letters.
It is shocking to her in the first one to read that her grandma never loved her grandpa.
