https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/889418.The_Star_Diaries
Although Solaris is Stanislaw Lem’s most esteemed work, I believe The Star Diaries—the contemporaneous memoirs of star-pilot Ijon Tichy—to be a better representative of his genius, for it is ambitious in scope, inventive, and often profound.The Star Diaries, a series of interplanetary adventures ranging in size from mere vignette to long novella, was written over a period of twenty years, and therefore--no surprise!—these pieces vary considerably in seriousness and depth, moving from the playful to the satiric and eventually the philosophical.
“The Twenty-Second Voyage,” for example, is a very Munchausen-like tale, organized around Tichy’s search through the planets for his missing pipe.
A batch of snapshots of Ijon in action:IN THE TIME LOOPThe exterior of Ijon's mini rocket ship is damaged and must be repaired but unfortunately this is a two-man job and Ijon is flying solo.That night, while asleep, a slightly familiar looking man shakes Ijon and demands he get out of bed and join him in repairing the rocket.
By the skin of his astronomical teeth, Ijon blasts off, leaving the planet far behind but his time on Amauropia provides Stanislaw Lem oodles of opportunities to make piquant philosophical observations about the universal tendencies of politics and religion, war and peace, customs and ideologies.
I need to reread this to review the book properly, but I know I liked it a lot, and even made a (view spoiler)[Tichy family tree (hide spoiler)] out of one story, just for fun. Since I read it first in Finnish, the English reading experience will no doubt feel different :)
Also available on the WondrousBooks blog. What a fantastic book! One of the best ones that I have read this year!!! If you have not read it, and I assume that is the situation, I highly recommend it! "I sat at my desk today, to write, and the chair said to me: 'What a strange world this is!" I will put this bluntly: I am highly aware that the English speaking world generally neglects the literature of the rest of the world, which is the idea behind the Reading the World challenge to begin with.
I can only begin to imagine how lovely Lem's original expressions are, because translations, no matter how good, always take away something from the original.The language, overall, was very rich, changing between styles, even using a made up version of old and new language, in the Polish version, I assume, Polish, but also, and much credit to Kandel, of course, in the English version, a sensational mix of old and new English that I had some trouble with, but that only attests to it's greatness, because it used expressions long out of use.I am generally not a fan of satire, but this book was fantastic in that sense.
Which brings me to the moment I will acquaint you with the book itself: The Star Diaries tells the story of Ijon Tichy, who travels from one planet to another and gets in all kinds of strange and comic situations.
The others are (in order read) The Futurological Congress, Eden, Return From the Stars, and Solaris.
And indeed, like The Futurological Congress, they are Ijon Tichy stories.
That said ~ rating The Star Diaries is difficult because some of the twelve stories are better than others, so I will rate each story separately.In “The Seventh Voyage,” Tichy gets caught in a time loop with hilarious results.
I like Lem best when he is philosophical and this story resembles the Teletransporter thought experiment in philosophy.
Although this story doesn’t actually have a Teletransporter (like “The Twenty-Third Voyage”), it involves the same problem.
They are going to all run together in the end, leaving the reader as dizzy as Lem’s hero when caught in a time loop, but it’s best to work your way slowly into that condition.Tichy is a freelance space explorer who takes his rundown spaceship out of storage whenever the mood for adventure hits him.
(B) Most things work out.At times I wondered how Lem’s satire made it past Polish censors in the 1960’s.
The last-written and longest story, Voyage Twenty-One, is almost entirely a philosophical discussion between Tichy and a priest on a planet where things have gone horribly wrong.
Diarios de las estrellas reúne en un solo volumen los Viajes y las Memorias de un curioso personaje, Ijon Tichy.A través de sus extraordinarios viajes (que me recordaron poderosamente a Gulliver y Munchausen), siempre en su inseparable cohete, Tichy descubrirá las más absurdas e inverosímiles formas de vida, así como las sociedades más disparatadas.
El humor de Lem es de lo más irónico y satírico.
Mediante las múltiples situaciones en las que Tichy se ve envuelto, Lem nos está hablando en realidad, a través de la extrapolación, de nuestro planeta y de los absurdos y estupidez de nuestra sociedad.
This was good fun. I read "Solaris", saw the two versions of the movie, one Russian and the other, American starring Mr. Clooney. My impression based on that was that he was serious, very philosophical and very trippy as well. This book was initially unexpected as it was very humorous, but yet, it had all the elements mentioned about Solaris. It is a different type satirical humour than that of Vonnagut Jr. but on par. This book was equally smart, clever, very funny and introspective all at once.
Pametna, duhovita i zanimljiva diskusija o religiji, ljudskoj prirodi, moralu, etici, generalno filozofiji, zamaskirana naučnom fantastikom. Sigurno ću čitati ponovo.

Maybe what was original, witty, creative and imaginative at the time of the book's writing is now part of your ordinary modern sci-fi menu.
Most of all, The Star Diaries reminded me of Douglas Adams's The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, the difference being that Lem's Diaries are not a proper novel, but a collection of short stories.
Most of them are meant to be comical and satirize prevalent sci-fi tropes like time travel.
Despite his undeniable wit, I think comedy is not Lem's strongest point and the best story in the book is the 21st Voyage, where he's more serious and you get a lot of truly interesting theological and ethical speculation.
Before Arthur Dent, there was Ijon Tichy.Before our civilisation disappeared into its own navel, there were the Dichoticans. And before we started to prattle about 'Singularities' the robot monks of Dichotica had already looked unflinchingly into that abyss.Before we ceased to create science fiction, there was this book showing us the sort of thing we could be creating instead.
Struggled through about 2/3 before giving up. I think I'll finally get around to reading Gulliver's Travels instead.
Całkiem miło, ale Podróż siódma to majstersztyk! Nie muszę po raz kolejny pisać, że ja po prostu uwielbiam twórczość Lema.
Abgebrochen auf Seite 242 / 524.Statt "Reiseberichten" des Raumfahrtpiloten Ijon Tichy wird das Buch mehr und mehr ein reines "Lexikon" über sämtliche Spezies, die sich Stanislaw Lem da einmal ausgedacht hat.Dauernde Wiederholung der Arten von Erzählung und die völlige Abwesenheit von Handlung, der etwas zu gewollte Humor (schreckliche Wortspiele teilweise) demotivierten leider völlig beim Lesen."Solaris" gefiel mir so gut, dieses Buch ist dagegen maßlos enttäuschend.
is full of long made of words that became overwhelming to work through and could stand with a reread.The twentieth voyage: (11th work) makes a parody of history (QUITE GOOD)The Twenty First: (12th work) philosophical look at death, God, Souls, clones a quote from this voyage, "No decent person ought associate with murderers, by the same token any collaboration with that greatest of criminals--Nature--is inexcusable.
The authors development as a writer can be seen when the voyages are looked at in the order that they were written.
This is a fun book that makes fun of man's supremacy in the universe, parodying history and time travel.
Although the dry humor I expect from Eastern European fiction is there, the story lines and philosophical wanderings are idiosyncratic in the extreme.Lem's diarist Ijon Tichy is a starship pilot, galactic explorer and self-styled diplomat whose adventures around the universe lead him into frequent philosophical and religious discussions and even more frequent menace to his strange-by-comparison-to-aliens earthling body, menace mostly avoided by laying low and making quick exits.
On yet another voyage, Tichy directs a bungling future bureaucracy charged with improving earth history by traveling into its past and inadvertently causes natural and human disasters from the extinction of the dinosaurs to the Spanish Inquisition.The book is illustrated with Lem's simple sketches of some of the stranger body shapes and technological gadgets of the future.
Niestety, wrażenie tego, że rodzaj fantastyki uprawianej przez Lema, to "bajka, która innymi, niż ja drogami chodzi", powróciło w trakcie niniejszej lektury.W "Dziennikach gwiazdowych" doceniam niebanalne, choć absurdalne poczucie humoru i to, w że zazwyczaj w sposób nienachalny potrafi przemycić w opowiadaniach drugie dno, choć przyznać też muszę, ze bywa i tak, jakby w niektórych momentach stawiał przed oczyma czytelnika ekwiwalent literackiego neonu, krzyczący "Spójrz tutaj!
W tej grupie, która, w jakiś paradoksalny sposób nie jest w stanie docenić wszystkich walorów naszego klasyka fantastyki, znalazłem się, niestety, i ja.
My favorites were"The Eighth Voyage", in which Ijon Tichy represents Earth to petition for its admission to the United Planets....and is forced to hear the opinion of various of the races of the universe on the history of earth and it's moral crimes."The Seventh Voyage", in which a spaceship defect forces Tichy through a series of time vortices, creating a multitude of temporal copies of himself."The Thirteenth Voyage", in which Ijon Tichy sets out to meet Master Oh. Instead, he finds two planets (Pinta and Panta) ruled according to the Master's principles.
On Panta, all inhabitants are identical clones and exchange their jobs daily.The one where he visits a planet ruled by robots.
He disguises himself as a robot, as living people are prosecuted and finds out interesting things about the inhabitants of the planet.
I had seen "Solaris" waaay back in college I think.
So I was thinking that this series of "journeys" of Ijon Tichy written by the author of Solaris (which I haven't read) would be serious and dry.I was right and wrong.
Many of the convolutions of time and space involve Tichy, full well knowing the consequences or potential result, punching his future or past self in the nose.
His view of earth society as seen from an alien perspective is very funny though also pessimistic.
Kind of makes me want to read Douglas Adams or Vonnegut.
After Olaf Stapledon, Stanislaw Lem is my favourite Science-fiction writer.
This collection of short stories is considerably weaker than his other works.
Lem was a genius for sure, but he was not a comedy genius (drawing neither), the Douglas Adams-like nature of these stories does not really suit well with the gist of his ideas.One other thing is the character of Ijon Tichy.
He might be the most non-existent character in the history of literature.
I have read hundreds of pages about him and I have no idea what is his personality, how does he looks like or what makes him what he is.
Бях чел някои от разказите в една друга книга с неща на Лем, която четох заради Соларис, но пък тя беше накрая, а в началото имаше малко истории за Ийон Тихи, после и за капитан Пиркс, та оттам се зарибих. От една страна дневниците са адски забавни и иронични. От друга - човек може да научи интересни неща за науката, без това да натежава. Споменават се Файнман, Ферми, квазари, цефеи и т.н. Най-много обаче ми хареса парадоксалноста и то особено времевите парадокси. Уникално описани са, а последния разказ от дневниците, където също се засяга тази тема, има доста ударен завършек.
I can only be ashamed of myself passing by this genial stories in high school by one of the best writer of my country, bah - the world! However the timing may be perfect as often you'll find things coming from the past to save your future. I recently started to loose hope for sci-fi genre and looking for older books to rediscover the roots. Lem is universal and beyond time...and funny! Btw - the story with electronic brains in chests? - now I know who did Wachowsky's ripped off to make Matrix ;)
Lem'in hayal edebilme gücünün kuvvetine hayr--... Yok, yok, bu güç tarif edilemez. Okuduğum en muhteşem kitaplardan biriydi.
As evoluções sociais dos indígenas alienígenas são uma amarga caricatura da nossa história.The Thirteenth Voyage: Partindo em busca do mais brilhante pensador da galáxia, Tichy vê-se capturado num planeta cujo governo embarcou numa missão progressista única.
Com a tarefa de evangelizar a espécie alienígena mais bondosa da galáxia, é tão bem sucedido que estes o torturam até à morte, replicando no seu corpo as histórias pias dos mártires da igreja, acreditando febrilmente que a martirização é o que o evangelista mais deseja.The Twenty-Third Voyage: Uma visita ao planeta mais exíguo da galaxia, onde os diminutos habitantes têm mesmo muito pouco espaço para viver, leva Tichy a descobrir as maravilhas de um revolucionário sistema de transportes.
The stories are a mixture of futuristic crystal-balling, deadpan humour, discussions on religion, satirical insights into the results of man's constant search for perfection, the dangers of technology and more satire on government bureaucracy and their use of fear to control the population.
It is a book of genius.I really like the Eighth Voyage, which Tichy represents Earth for its admission to the United Planets only for mankind to be judged unsuitable for entry.
Another favourite was the Eleventh Voyage where there a classic use of fear to have the population spying on each other.
El viaje septimo me hizo reir hasta el punto en que lloré, muuuuuy divertido, no me había reído así desde Matadero 5 de Vonnegut.Los escritos de S. Lem entran en esa categoría de locura en donde están de alguna forma PKD, Douglas Adams y tal vez Vonnegut. <3

یه سری داستان علمی-تخیلی-فلسفی-فکاهی از استانیسلاو لم. بعضی از داستانهاش با ترجمه صادق مظفر زاده توی مجله دانشمند اواخر دهه شصت و اوایل هفتاد با عنوان خاطرات یون تیخی چاپ شده بود.کتاب خیلی سختیه و خیلی واژه و اصطلاح ابداعی داره که برای فهمیدنشون باید کلی اطلاعات از کیهانشناسی و نظریه تکامل و فلسفه و علوم دیگه داشته باشید.من یکی از داستانها رو با ترجمهی مظفر زاده مقایسه کردم و واقعا حیرت کردم از کیفیت بینظیر ترجمه. خیلی دوست دارم کسی که توی اون هول و ولای دهه شصت وقتش رو وقف ترجمهی یه همچین متن س
یه سری داستان علمی-تخیلی-فلسفی-فکاهی از استانیسلاو لم.
خیلی دوست دارم کسی که توی اون هول و ولای دهه شصت وقتش رو وقف ترجمه‌ی یه همچین متن سختی کرده و کارش رو با همچین دقت و مهارت مثال زدنی‌ای انجام داده رو یه بار از نزدیک ببینم بگم آقا بیا تف کن توی صورت من واسه تبرک!برخلاف عموم داستان‌های علمی تخیلی اون زمان که موضوع‌شون معمولا خیالبافی درباره دستاوردهای شگرف بشریت در سال دوهزاره یا روبات‌های سخنگو و اینجور چیزا...
Bilimkurguyu bugünkü seviyesine getiren yazarlar denildiğinde Le Guin ve Dick'in yanında anılan bir diğer yazar olan Lem'in okuduğum ikinci kitabı olan Yıldız Güncesi, öykü kitapları içerisinde favorilerime yerleşti.Ijon Tichy'nin galakside ki maceralarından oluşan kitap boyunca Lem felsefeye, toplum eleştirisine, insanlığın devamına ve Tanrı'ya çoğu yazardan çok daha eğlenceli yaklaşmış.
Akılda kalıcı metaforlarla desteklediği fikirlerinde; evrim geçirip vahşileşen patateslerden tutun, zaman döngüsünde kendisi ile kavga eden Tichy'nin aslında Dünya'nın tarihini şekillendiren ve pek becerikli olmayan bir ekibe sahip Tanrı rolüne soyunan adam olmasından, robot isyanının şok edici gerçeklerine kadar hepsinden sayfalar tutacak kompozisyonlar çıkarabilirsiniz.
Ve hikayeleri sakince okuyup, hazmettikten sonra düşündüğünüzde idrak ettikleriniz ve insanın daha doğrusu insanoğlunun ben merkezciliği üzerine yapılan bu eleştirilerin seviyesini anlayınca Lem'e hayranlıkla karışık bir saygı duyarsınız, diye düşünüyorum.
