https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38504.You_Get_So_Alone_at_Times_That_it_Just_Makes_Sense
The library is after me again to return this book to them. I just can't seem to let it go. I've taken to not answering my door in fear of an angry librarian come to collect on a raft of overdue fines. I think I might hide it inside my old toaster for a while just in case they break in and try to take it back. Yes, it's that good. And I'm a cheap bastard.
I think that's the only way I can do this collection justice.
The poet as an older man lacks the vinegar and vitriol of his younger self, but being eight years from his death certainly infused these poems with the magnetic appeal of a someone who has seen enough to write about it however he damn well pleases.
His rage has abated and a brutally subtle wit stepped up to fill its shoes, all to an immensely successful result.So it seems like I like Bukowski's poetry the best, but I think it's because of the vast range that a poetry collection lends itself to.
While the Beat Generation was making its headway in literature with the likes of On the Road and Howl, Bukowski was, in most instances, dead drunk.
In the post-World War II lit movement where the Beat Generation found its threshold, Bukowski was in engaged in what was to be a ten-year alcohol induced stupor predicated on his failure to initially break in the literary world.
You get so alone at times that it just makes sense to walk into a bookstore, flip through this book, take it to your table, buy a vanilla latte, and become immersed in words that seem simple, yet they have so much depth. It just makes sense to buy this collection, read it slowly, and spend a couple of weeks with verse arranged in such a way they pierce the everydayness. It just makes sense to spend some time with a poet like Bukowski, who is not afraid to write about the ordinary, flawed self: s
You get so alone at times that it just makes sense to walk into a bookstore, flip through this book, take it to your table, buy a vanilla latte, and become immersed in words that seem simple, yet they have so much depth.
It just makes sense to buy this collection, read it slowly, and spend a couple of weeks with verse arranged in such a way they pierce the everydayness.
It just makes sense to spend some time with a poet like Bukowski, who is not afraid to write about the ordinary, flawed self:
--beasts bounding through time--Van Gogh writing his brother for paintsHemingway testing his shotgun
I still love him but if me and him were friends, we'd probably fight all the time just like he did with his girlfriends, except without being his girlfriend."But you see, the point here really is, he obviously gets people talking about him, so I guess he wins.
Some of his poems really are just the result of a lonely, drunk old man bitching, perhaps with a tiny sprinkle of "I'm bitter and you should love me because I'm better than everyone else." The reason he's interesting is because he likes to blend the two - gems and crap - and often treats them as one in the same, and each reader has a different perception of which is which.
I think there is blood on my Bukowski book.
I dread the day I run out of new-to-me Bukowski poetry.Many of the writer's topics were the same, whores and other poets to name two, though the poems about other poets did not feel quite so antagonistic as in the last collection I read.
I would include the poem here but sadly it is too long and I think it is best left as a wonderful surprise for those who end up reading this collection.
Bukowski is a genious. enough said. *.* ♥
Charles Bukowski is crazy, fortunately, I love crazy people.Hahaha examines Cats.
Personally, after reading this book, I find this man to be absolutely nuts.
I could picture myself becoming friends with him, easily, because let’s face it, I am as crazy as they come.Stranger: Can you describe your friend Melody to me?My Friends: Melody?
That biatch is crazy with a capital K.Me: Yes. Yes I am.I will now review this piece how Bukowski would:I wonderbetween the twoof usBukowski and Iwho is the craziesthim for this bookor mefor callingit amasterpiece.Either waythere's somethingwrong with usand sois thisline.See where I’m going with this?
read more here
After reading this book I was inspired to write this poem:the agony of thisexistenceas if it weren't enoughof a strugglejust to wake up in themorning and face thesunnot for themthoughnothey need to make ithardera tormenthell(they're obsessed with hell) hell for otherswhile theytheythey live in privilegethey controlthey enslavethey fuckand they do it in the name of righteousnessthey hide behind theirprophetthey hide behind theirgodand they forcea papyrus to guidethem and usus and themthey make ittell them how to live behave acttreat otherstreat womenhow tobe abusivehow tobe ignorantand theythose assholesthose cowardsthose elitiststhey ruleus
Imagine an old man (+45) with his four cats, living in a shabby one-room apartment with occasional girlfriends who come and go—that man is Charles Bukowski, otherwise known as the poet of the lowlifes.
Most poems are about drinking, getting wasted, writing, loneliness, failure, street fights, occasional hookups and poor living.
Few poems get into the poet's childhood, especially his strained relationship with his father.
The style reflects such motifs.
It's conversational and sometimes even vulgar—a smack in the face of anyone who thinks that poetry must be literary and refined.
It's an upshot from modernism it seems to me.
I like Charles.
Hemingway stayed on the shelf, but you came home with me so I could have a look to see what makes you tick.At the time you penned most of the poems in this book you were about my age, and we are so alike in temperament that I found myself disliking you.
and the next best part was nobody ever missed me.I gotta say, Charles, that I usually don't finish a book of poetry so quickly.
Your book will never see another thrift store while I'm alive.
The question I put to every poem - do I believe your truth, do I enjoy your lies?
But let's move on to 'alkies'.
According to some of the poems here 'alkies' are akin to sullen teenagers dropping 'whatever' bombs before that slam of the door.
A few poems snapped me out of the inertia: '1813-1883', 'beasts bounding...' 'hot', '...crippled saints' 'how is your heart?' 'it's ours'.Back to truth and lies, the poetry is believable and real, but I wasn't inspired or entertained.
“Some people never go crazyWhat truly horrible lives they must lead Boring damned peopleAll over the earthpropagating more boring damned peopleWhat a horror showThe earth swarmed with them”“Some lose all mind and become soul, insane.some lose all soul and become mind, intellectual.some lose both and become accepted”I added this book to my reading list because of the Beautiful Creatures "Lena & Ethan reading list".
I love the fact that Bukowski, even after winning fame, stayed so true to himself, and remained living where he always did: in the underbelly of society, a place few of us really know.
It makes everything he writes so much more real; a perspective so many of us don't ever experience.But for all that, his poetry still applies to so many of us, no matter where we live, or how much money we make.
His wry observations on the modern world always ring true, making sure we always remember we all put our pants on one leg at a time.
Lots of people think that Bukowski's later work is less immediate and raw and powerful - after he found some commercial success (mainly in Europe) - than his earlier work.
It moves with more confidence and less self-awareness.
I always got the sense that too many of his earlier experiences were experienced with exactly the self-satisfied knowledge that "at least it will make for a good poem".
The later stuff feels more immediate, to me, simply because it is less reflexively self-aware.
Instead, I find the later poems more intentional, more reflexive, and less formulaic.
This is one of my favorite collections of poetry. Charles Bukowski led a pretty rough life (he was an unapologetic, womanizing, violent drunk) which is reflected in his work. Some of his pieces are coarse, lewd, and downright graphic. But amongst all of the chaos and drunkeness he will write something beautiful and poignant, which seems even more so in contrast to then violent and lacivious poems around it. And that's kind of what poetry is, isn't it? Finding something beautiful in the everyday. For whatever reason, this does it for me.
While I wasn't a fan of everything in this book, poems like "no help for that" and "it's ours" redeem it 100%
“there is a place in the heart thatwill never be filleda spaceand even during thebest momentsandthe greatest timeswe will know itwe will know itmore thaneverthere is a place in the heart thatwill never be filledandwe will waitandwaitin that space.”
The book that re-defined poetry for me.Buk was tough / a real inspiration.
"take a writer away from his typewriterand all you have leftisthe sicknesswhich started himtypingin thebeginning"my "problem" with poem books is, that I nearly never like every poem. Some Bukowski poems were amazing, some were good, some were disgusting, some were bad, some didn't make any sense, some were heartbreaking and some just touched my hearts.All in all I enjoyed this book and would give it a 3.5
I would never want Bukowski for a friend.
He's the friend that gets slobbering drunk at the party.
The friend who rails and rails for hours about some nonsense that nobody wants to listen to.
He's never the friend you look to for advice,or the friend that you would ever share a drink with when you were in a happy mood, but he's the friend that you go to when you want to let yourself wallow a little,when you're not against feeling a little bit of self-pity, when an emotional catharsis is the only thing that can save you.
Bukowski is truly vulgar and cynical.
“there is a place in the heart thatwill never be filleda spaceand even during thebest momentsandthe greatesttimeswe will know itwe will know itmore thaneverthere is a place in the heart thatwill never be filledandwe will waitandwaitin thatspace.”
I loved Bukowski in high school, haven't picked him up since then, but the purposeful coarseness, the rough exterior hiding vulnerable loneliness, the delight in being offensive...no developing teenage girl should grow up without him. His poetry is so much better than his prose, this collection is my favorite.
I either felt like telling him off or I really liked the poem. He seemed to have a lot of feelings in this collection. The feeling, to me, was that he was just letting everything out. He also seemed to have no problem with people leaving how he thought.
Some of this was very good (and some excellent, even), but I mostly hated it. Now at least I know to give extreme side-eye to dudes who say Bukowski is their favorite poet/writer.
no help for thatthere is a place in the heart thatwill never be filleda spaceand even during thebest momentsandthe greatesttimeswe will know itwe will know itmore thaneverthere is a place in the heart thatwill never be filledand we willwaitandwaitin thatspace.- Charles Bukowski
the first reason why am reading for Bukowski , it's that i want a new experience , i love his honest soul that what amazed me the most , how real he is , perhaps the honestest man , there no more real people left on our plant .
his words gave me a new human experience , most of people will say they read to enjoy , or to learn something new , but for me all I want is to be , the people am reading for .
and this book is one of my ultimate human experience .I can tell i have learn a lot as much as i enjoyed this reading .
I'll compare reading an entire collection of Bukowski poems to listening to a whole Sex Pistols album.
By the third and fourth, the feeling wanes as thematic and musical monotony sets in, and with each proceeding poem or song, your enthusiasm continues to decrease.
You Get So Alone At Times That It Just Makes Sense stays in Bukowski's wheelhouse of drinking everything in sight, screwing everyone in sight, gambling at the horse track, and realizing, from time to time, how alone it all makes him feel.

