https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/585957.Kennedy
Instead I wish to meditate on President Kennedy, with this book as its best symbol.
Books are being released and re-released that emphasize nothing save the "juiciest" bits of Camelot that are either so overblown, or downright lies that I've gotten tired of reading the covers, much less hearing their contents.
To summarize: hardly a year goes by without someone arguing that the Kennedys had Marilyn Monroe killed, or were just drugged up alcoholics paving their way from crisis to crisis, sleeping around, and engineering Vietnam.
Kennedy was a great man, and a great president.
Whom he slept with does not matter to me, and did not in the least affect his policies.
He also reportedly wrote or edited much of JFK’s Pulitzer Prize-winning “Profiles in Courage.” Sorensen died in 2010 at the age of 82.Sorensen’s 758-page biography of Kennedy is nontraditional in many ways: by virtue of its extraordinary proximity to both its subject and the times, for its strictly thematic coverage and for its commitment to revealing the inner workings of a presidency at the expense of broader context and character development.The unique access Sorensen provides readers is undoubtedly the book’s best attribute…as well as its most significant shortcoming.
Sorensen had a partnership with Kennedy when it came to writing; what’s more is that Kennedy actually trusted him — which is such a huge deal.When you actually listen to and watch JFK’s 1961 Inaugural Address and read about how Sorensen was charged with helping to draft it, it’s just really inspiring.
It’s simply that every event in the man’s presidency tries to show that Kennedy was simply infallible, and even The Bay of Pigs disaster is blamed on everyone else except Kennedy himself (to JFK’s credit, he takes much of the blame for the fiasco in this retrospective, but Sorenson will hear nothing of it.)Then there’s the shear volume of this work.
In fact, many of Kennedy’s amusing anecdotes that he would quip during his presidency are included here, and the man simply had a strong way with words when illustrating key points, or responding to criticism from an opponent.Overall, I didn’t think this book was that great, and thought it could have been much better.
Sorensen served as a speechwriter and is the putative author of Kennedy's "Profiles in Courage." Written in 1965 when the pain of Kennedy's assassination was still felt - especially by close associates like Sorensen - and strongly supported by the President widow, the book rarely alludes to any deficiencies in Kennedy's character, much less articulates them.
Subsequent chapters, especially those about the Bay of Pigs, the Civil Rights movement and the Cuban Missile Crisis are more engrossing.
Information about public appearances he made, especially on the campaign trail and at press conferences, serve to remind readers of the one truly salient thing about JFK: We've never had, since his death, a President who could think on his feet so quickly and so wittily.
Sorensen gives an inside look at Kennedy as a man, Senator, and President, writing from the point of view of how Kennedy himself might like to frame his own legacy.
The book describes the policies and politics of Kennedy just as much as the man, giving the book more substance than many books about JFK and his family.However, the book, written in 1965, feels rather dated.
The grief of Kennedy's death still seems too fresh for perspective to have set in, and Sorensen writes through a lens of hero-worship.
He doesn't yet have capacity to write about Kennedy's personal flaws and indiscretions, or the problems left unfinished for the Johnson Administration.
This book is an infinite and enduring application of the political rally in the history of the United States. Anyone interested in politics should read this. Excellent read.
fairly good book. Some parts were hard to get through.
This took me a long time to read but well worth the effort. One of the best Kennedy biographies, focusing mainly on his presidency and less on his assassination.
Brilliant detailed insight into the man himself.
I started this book in January 2012 and finished it in January 2016.
At the start of 2016 though, I was determined to finish it and so I have.Theodore Sorensen was President Kennedy's speech writer and special counsel.
His love and admiration for a man he had known for many years shines through in his detailed look at President Kennedy's life and career, mostly the latter.
It was a bit dry at the start but picks up during the campaign and actual presidency.
I learned a lot and the President's humor and personality shines in this loving tribute to him.
It has to be said that unlike other biographers of JFK, Ted Sorensen was himself a great and gifted man.What I feel stands out about this book, is the author was not just at the shoulder of John Kennedy throughout his political career, but that he was a valued advisor and speechwriter, and that intimacy is conveyed clearly throughout these seven hundred and sixty pages.
Some may see this intimacy as a biased view.I admit that I found some of the American domestic chapters such as 'The Fight Against Recession' and 'The Fight Against Inflation' difficult to digest.
As Sorensen admits, there is a certain arbitrary nature to the chapters of his book.
I started reading and hoping that I would get to know JFK a little differently.
I didn't want to validate the stories of him being a womens' man and all that.
The theory conspiracies, well there would always be that.I don't care too much about American politics but hey, there was no way I was gonna get away from that.
As I kept on reading, the first half was just about American politics and I got a lil' disappointed.Little did I know that what I wanted was exactly what I got.
This book showed me what I wanted to see about JKF.
Theodore Sorensen does a remarkable job of writing the memoir that JFK would have written.
Rather it is his memoir and account of JFK.
It is the very first biography and therefore the first draft of history and is incredibly detailed.
It does not recount a family history, but retells what the public knew about JFK at that time shortly after his death.
All very detailed and the most engaging part is his description of the Cuban Missile Crisis.
(If you are a die hard Kennedy scholar, like me, you might start with this one and see the evolution of a biography.
The book is certainly well written and offers a great deal of insight into Kennedy's achievements. The only drawback is that it does not address the negatives. According to Sorensen's account, JFK could do no wrong. For a truly objective account of JFK's life, one has to read other accounts, by more objective observers.Tony Manera
I enjoyed this book...obviously, a biography of JFK written by his primary speechwriter is going to be a bit biased - but it did provide a good overview of his years in the Senate and the Presidency. I especially enjoyed the stories about the Presidential campaign of 1960 - very interesting inside information.
A great portrayal of the perhaps the greatest American President (with Lincoln) by a man who served JFK faithfully as an advisor. Full of insights into the man, his motivations, his energy and commitment to serving not only his country but also all humanity.
High on praise and light on criticism. The episodic nature of the writing is hard to follow too. I didn't feel like I got a good picture of JFK.
This was the BEST book ever!!
The youngest man and the first Catholic ever elected, 43-year-old John F. Kennedy of Massachusetts, was inaugurated as the 35th President of the United States.
Interesting. I don't normally read non fiction but this held my attention and offered some facts that I did nor know about President Kennedy.
Easy read. Not subjective in the least. Mr. Sorensen's admiration Kennedy is glaring thrpugh out the book. Some goos personal insights.
The best JFK biography around since 1965.
