https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/80469.Marx_for_Beginners
It is important to know one's enemies well, though, and that is why I have studied Marx to a limited extent.This book was actually one of several required readings in a college course I took on the history of socialism.
Rius uses cartoons and tiny bits of comedy in order to make one's introduction to the subject as interesting as possible, and he covers the basics quite well indeed: Marx's philosophy, his economic doctrine, and his concept of historical materialism.
Despite the title, at least a little political savvy is necessary to fully understand Marx for Beginners.
However, Rius provides a beautifully enjoyable (and quite funny) journey detailing the beginnings of the many threads of political theory that eventually influenced Karl Marx and/or his sidekick Frederich Engels.
So highly recommended!Marx for Beginners is the first of Rius’ book that I’ve read, but it won’t be the last.
I’ve bought Diccionario de la estupidez humana (The Dictionary of Human Stupidity), Hitler Para Masoquistas (no translation needed) and Los Agachados (The Submissive), all of them in Spanish.
This was moderately entertaining and very easy-to-read, however I noticed that Rius has a tendency to oversimplify things ... be especially wary of the middle part of the book-a very sloppy, spontaneous, unnecessary lesson about the history of western philosophy leading up to Marx, which was also (unsurprisingly) filled with more oversimplifications.Otherwise, I found that when Rius wrote exclusively about Marx and Engels, he was able to explain a lot of their ideas very quickly. The illustrations also make it easier to remember all of the information this book provides. 4/5, worth the time.
سلسلة ممتعة وخفيفة جدًا! هذا الكتاب يتكلم عن ماركس والنظرية الماركسية وكيف نشأت بطريقة مبسطة جدًا جدًا، رغم ان الموضوع عميق لكنه طلع بشيء مختصر ومميز، طبعًا مايكفي عشان تفهم الماركسية لكنه على الأقل يشرح كل شيء ببساطة وبشكل ممتع.. السلسلة كلها محاولة لاختصار مواضيع معينة بطريقة تخلي اي شخص يقراها يفهمها، ومليانة صور وحركات، حبيت.
Obsolete, curious mix of dogmatic, unreflective and slightly boring ... but then again it is from 1976 and perhaps most relevant as an indicative of a contempoary point of view. Definitely not relevant for a post collapse of Communism reappraisal of Marx and Marxism
e baš za početnike/ce! čak mi se čini i previše pojednostavljeno.. ali je vizuelno super! a pošto je ideja zapravo da privuče ljude da čitaju marksa u originalu (njegove reči) možda u tome i uspe (mada nisam toliko sigurna). zato ipak neke 3,5 ⭐ a možda je i to mnogo.. ali bar zbog vizuelnog doživljaja
The "world Spirit" Theology is certainly necessary for Marx-Engels philosophy.* Marx desperately needed Rousseau's presentation of the "noble" savage in western culture, to create the idea that the only source of value is human labor power(page 104).

It's written in comic book form and while I hate comic books it's incredibly reader friendly and does a great job of making Marx very accessible. It's my #1 most recommended book to people who are interested in Marx. Plus, it's cute.
KEEP CALM AND SEIZE THE MEANS OF PRODUCTION
Rius also does a basic rundown of the philosophical concepts from the beginning that led to Marx— which was immensely helpful in my understanding of Marx’s theories.
Having never been to college, when I initially threw myself into “studying” socialism, I found concepts like historical materialism, dialectics, etc.
all insanely foreign and near-impossible to grasp.
My one gripe would be that Rius just straight up quotes the Communist Manifesto near the end for several pages— I would have preferred if, much like the rest of the book, Rius delivered the message without the difficult-to-read Marxian prose (as it were).
Very informative
The English language version of this book was published in 1976 so some of the statements seem a bit dated.
For example, Rius states that 1/3 of the world's population "practices communism" which is not the case now.
Was his glory created because he drew the most PhD candidates wanting to find something new in his works or enjoying proving that another person was all wrong is his analysis?In any case, this is a small accessible book about Marx and some of the history leading up to the development of communism.
The Englkish Language version I read was pulbished in 1976 This book is a little dates
I enjoyed this documentary comic strip introduction to Marx by Mexican cartoonist Rius.
Since I was pretty much ignorant of Marx's work to start with, I can't comment on the accuracy or comprehensiveness of Rius's intro.
It held my attention, though, which is rare for nonfiction in general.
I came away feeling that I understood certain currents in philosophy better, particularly political philosophy.
Even more impressively, it showed a new (to me) interpretation of the functions of the state and our political system.
I'd recommend this, and I wish I'd read it when it was written, in the seventies, when I was a teenager.
This is a review of all the "Introducing..." books. These books are fun for what they are - engaging, silly, and witty commentaries on the authors in question and their respective critical traditions. Don't think that they're a replacement for the original. They're not. But they do provide some engaging context, especially for those who learn more visually.
نه...به نظر من اول برین هرچی اطلاعات میخواین راجع به مارکس و انگلس و افلاطون و ...بدست بیارین و بعد (وقتی فهمیدین چی میگن)از خوندن این کتاب لذت خواهید بردکار جالب و سختی رو انجام داده ،نویسنده کتاب رو عرض کردم
If you want to begin to understand Karl Marx and communism better this book is the place to start. Done in a cartoon format it is simple and funny. It gives a pretty good summary of philosophical thought up until Marx as well (to show where he was coming from when he developed his manifesto).
A simplified and nice introduction to Marx and his thought.
A good book for marxist beginner or anyone who is interested to have an introductory undestanding on marxism. Plus the illustration is comic-like. Which makes it more interesting. :)
Is it possible to completely disagree with Marxism and still enjoy this book? It is.
Unfortunately, I did't read the book in its original language, so I couldn't get the full experience of it. However, I enjoyed the interesting approach Rius had to it, funny and easy to read.
هذا الكتاب للأطفال ربما ، لكنه عندي افضل من كتابات الماركسيين الجدد الذي تعني لهم الماركسية ان تكون سطحيا و ميكانيكيا.
The Ted Talk of books.
It serves as a neat introduction and helps to stimulate interest in the topics.
The concept of a graphic guide is pulled off pretty successfully, and makes the book easy to digest.
My major problems with the book lie in the fact that complexities are not well dealt with by the book.
The biggest danger is that the reader might be left with the misconception that he truly understands the complexities involved.Still, for those who are looking for either a summary, or an introduction, this would be a good place to start with.
When I first read this book, at first I honestly could not tell if the author was for or against Marxism, it seemed unbiased to me.
Then I looked up who Rius was and I was like damn, that guys a Marxist!Anyways, the book is largely unbiased.
You can tell he took alot of time to actually study Marx, and that he actually had a few clues as to what he was talking about (unlike some other authors I know).His illustrations are clear, some are confusing at times but nevertheless coherent and funny.Love this book and love Rius and love Marx!
3.5 starsThis was my in-school English class book (that's [partly] why it took me 4 months to read).I basically knew nothing about Karl Marx and not much about communism before reading it. The author explained Marx's philosophy with visuals, text, and quotes from The Communist Manifesto. Overall, it was pretty good.Sometimes the author's handwriting was a bit hard to read.Some of the content was a bit hard to understand (not the author's fault), but it made it hard to want to keep reading at a few points.Would recommend to people who want to learn about Karl Marx.
Now, after many years I have rid myself of this cup of poison and hypocracy (Marx was a parasite feeding off his friend) like the capaitlists he attempts to attack.
To cap it all the cartoon style of this book (which drew me in as a naive teenager) is disgusting.
Now in my late 30s it has taken me years to rid myself of the effects of this poison.Now its so sad to see the Millenial generation have fallen for this hook,line and sinker in the form of SJW propaganda....Evil Incarnate
A brave attempt at an approachable explanation of the fundamentals of Marx.
About half of the book is devoted to exploring Marx's philosophical underpinnings, which I found helpful and interesting.
But this is a book about Marx, and by the time Rius gets to the theory laid out in the Communist Manifesto the book runs out of steam.
The simply drawn comic illustrations spread throughout often add little beyond a deprecating humor that gets old fast.
Rius' also felt compelled to ink a lot of the text by hand, which is unfortunate because his handwriting is at times hard to read.

I never thought that comics could provide me with so much information in a short time. Before this, I knew nothing about Marx or about his ideas. Just knew that the communist ideas started from him. This gave me a brief idea about the reasons why Marx and his peers came up with the ideas. I also understood why communism would be a failure. It is very well written and compiled in such a way as to make the topic eye-catching.
There were lots of oversimplifications and false definitions, but this book overall did a great job explaining the philosophical tenets and the history of Marxism in a clear, concise fashion, something I can't say for the majority of modern attempts to explain Marxism. Ironically, this book was the death blow to my identification as a Marxist; although my views are still largely influenced by Marxist analysis, I can no longer call myself a true Marxist now that I understand Marxism properly.
