https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/66514.Legend_in_Green_Velvet
4 biased stars ("I really liked it.")The good: Elizabeth Peters is the equivalent of comfort food; I read a lot of her books in high school/college and I'll always have a soft spot for them.
It's lighthearted and silly; the best word to describe this whole book, I think, would be "caper." The historical elements are added with a light hand (as always--Peters is so good at that), characters are vivid, and dialogue is snarky.
(Peters loves her rumbling, sarcastic male romantic leads.)The bad: It's dated.
It adds to the farce.)The hilarious: One plot point revolves around the male lead having a striking resemblance to (view spoiler)[Prince Charles of England (hide spoiler)].

"Oh, hell ... So you're one of those Americans."Elizabeth Peters, Legend in Green VelvetThis is such a great romp!
I've read this book actually several times over the years, probably the first time when I was a teenager.
It does not hold up well to my memory of the book.Young archaeology student Susan is in Edinburgh, Scotland for the first time in her life when she becomes embroiled in a criminal affair she doesn't understand.
The mystery is really, really dumb.
A simple phone call to the police could have avoided all the trouble and the reason Jamie and Susan don't call the police is really, really dumb.
Read her Vicky Bliss series or Amelia Peabody books (written under the name of Elizabeth Peters).
Interesting story which, unfortunately, showed its age.
By this I mean the heroine was a pushover as far as men went and didn't think anything about it.
At least at the beginning of the story.
The Scottish history bits were told in such a way that even if history isn't your forte, it would be interesting.
At least it was for me but I enjoy this sort of stuff.The adventures through the Scottish landscape was with peril, but fun to listen to.
And I liked the various felines the couple met along the way.Would recommend this one for a rainy day.
I think it would be perfect.
Three and a half stars rounded up because it was just what I was in the mood for. A light comic adventure-romance with enough Scottish history woven in to keep me interested. Not as good as Peters' Amelia Peabody novels but fine for a quick beach read.
The mystery and setting were great as usual, but the main characters were not the best.
Susan is a Scottish history buff who receives a message not intended for her and, as usual, it draws the bad guys’ attention.
Susan isn’t a bad heroine, she’s just… average.
The plot and supporting characters were good enough to carry my attention throughout the whole book.
The plot involved some small group of baddies bent on getting their hands on something.I wouldn’t recommend anyone starting off with this book as their first Peters mystery.

She has a very romanticized idea of what Scotland is like, and is finding herself disappointed on numerous levels -- especially when she winds up being framed for a murder that pulls her into unwanted intrigue.Along with her is Jamie Erskine, a young Scot who is heir to the ancestral title and wants nothing more to be a policeman.
Given the time of the writing, I imagined him looking like a young Prince Andrew.
(hide spoiler)] Anyway, the two of them use this to their advantage on several occasions.What was fun about this book for me is that I have been to all of the places Peters writes about in the tale.
Is there a genre for very silly romantic suspense?
Susan is an American archaeology student with a passion for all things Scotland - especially Bonnie Prince Charlie and Scottish poetry and lore, which are layered into this book with a garden spade.
James is a young Scot who despises all that and scorns those who prefer to live in the past.
This book is nothing like a typical romantic suspense novel, though it contains all those elements.
Also, James' father is over-the-top in the same way the Amelia Peabody and her Emerson will be later on.
I'm obviously biased toward Elizabeth Peters' books because she is one of my favorite authors, but I re-read her novels because they are fun, comforting and a wonderful palate cleanser after some of the new stuff I try to read.
After seeing reviews on this site, I realize Peters isn't for everyone.
She brings to life interesting characters, especially women who are real yet strong and independent.
Her dialogue is witty and always in-character, and while the plots can be far-fetched like most mysteries, she can turn a zany rescue into something joyful and fun.
Was a big Elizabeth Peters fan many moons ago. Came across this book and did not remember reading it and it sounded interesting.I think I did read this, but so long ago I didn't remember it. It was a fun read, easy read. Lot of Scottish history came up, which was interesting. This book hints that the Stone of Scone never actually left Scotland. That is part of the mystery here, but there is a bit more going on than meets the eye. Enjoyable read.
Lots of fun, this early work is a clear forerunner of the Emerson and Peabody books in its characters, humor, and plot twists. In reading the author's earlier books I have really enjoyed watching the development of her style. This is one of my favorites so far.
I also happen to have an intense love for Scotland and its rich history, and was quite intrigued by the blurb for Legend In Green Velvet.Turns out no matter what she writes about, it’s not the topic that makes me fall in love, or the characters.
Although I happen to always fall in love with both, it’s just the way she writes them that makes you love them.
She’s quite the adorable character who loves history.
It’s quite the humorous adventure between the two.
I would highly recommend this read to those who love novels rich in history, and mystery.
This is another of Elizabeth Peters's romantic comedy capers, dating to the late 1970s, featuring an American heroine up against mysterious antagonists in the British Isles and helped by a mysterious Brit--in this case a Scottish heir to a title and castle.
The incredibly silly plot has them running for their lives all around Scotland to avoid a murder charge (they could have gone to the police, but then there wouldn't have been any plot) and to solve the mystery.
The silliness is helped immensely by the hero cutting his long hair and shaving his beard, revealing that he is a near-perfect ringer for a certain prince.
Actually it's 4 1/2 stars because the ending was somewhat anti-climatic.
Still it comes together pretty well.
Being pursued through the countryside is my cup of tea.
Loved it, along with the humor.
I don't like the disrespect that a son shows his father.
It is supposed to add a light touch, but I seldom think that's very funny.
But all in all a fine adventure, light on the archaeology (unfortunately), a convoluted plot without it being too confusing, and not overdone in the romance department.
For Elizabeth Peter's fans, a must -- and one of her best, I think (outside the Amelia Peabody series).
I think somebody stole Elizabeth Peters name for this ridiculous attempt at a Scottish Highland, mystery solving co-ed romance/archaeology treasure hunt, a la Scooby Doo, but without the lovable dog. Our heroine, Susan, is a know it all ass, a la Velma. I did a lot of eye-rolling listening to this audiobook. At least it was better than the radio.
Ok - my edition is Tor but 1976, for what it's worth.This is a really fun romantic romp.
Lovely story involving a lot of Scottish history in current times. Slightly similar to the Amelia Peabody series set in England and Egypt.
Not great literature, but this is one of my favorite Elizabeth Peters books and definitely one of my happy places when I'm feeling stressed.
Just a fun read; good to listen to on audio so you can hear a brogue :)Archeology student gets into mystery in Scotland.
Unfortunately, this book has waaaay to many coincidences, plot holes, and moments of strained credulity for me to really take a shine to it.Oh well.
This was fun and pretty clean (I don’t remember much language- maybe a little?). A bit more romance at the end wouldn’t have been unwelcome...
I thought this would be a lightish whodunnit, but it turned out to be large chunks of Scottish history and not much else.
Not Elizabeth Peters's finest.
A fun romp of a mystery though Scotland, complete with all the kitsch an American gal sold on Scotland and the Highlands could want - including a hero who looks like a member of the Royal family without his beard!
(view spoiler)[Interesting that someone so enamored of Scotland should be so attracted to someone who looks like Prince Charles!
A good-looking American who calls himself Jackson joins her tour the next day, and he seems to be interested in all things Susan.
Over a scrap of old poetry?When Susan sees Tammas again the next evening, he runs from her, and she follows him through the streets and back alleys of Edinburgh.
This same man appears in her life several times over the next few days.After a few days and a series of strange events, she spies the same man following her.
She bumps into a man dressed in the style of Bonnie Prince Charlie and he attempts to help her find the elderly man.Together, they find a dead body.James is the young man in costume and he convinces Susan to run.
Some of these people apparently want to harm Susan and James.
There appears to be secrets about history and evidently those secrets are big enough to involve criminals.Susan and James are funny together.
Perhaps best known for her mystery series involving Amelia Peabody, an archaeologist/detective who solves murder mysteries in exotic locales, Elizabeth Peters has apparently written numerous stand-alone novels throughout her extensive literary career.
"Legend in Green Velvet" is one of her stand-alones, and it is the first of hers that I have read.
While I am not one for the usual "tea-party" murder mysteries (mainly because many of them I have read, with few exceptions---Agatha Christie being one---are rather boring for my tastes), I enjoyed "Legend in Green Velvet".
This is a fun, quick read, nothing more or less, and it may be a good taste of Peter's writing.
I'd forgotten the astonishing '70s sexism, but MPM's writing is balm to my soul. And her take on Scotland was a nice antidote to Outlander.
So, when the opportunity presented itself, there was no question in her mind but that she would go on the archaeological dig in the Highlands.
And why, Susan had to wonder, were she and the handsome young laird Jamie Erskine suddenly being pursued by the police who wanted to talk to them about ...
Wanna guess whether or not the mysterious archaeological professor was the ringleader of the bad guys?
Wanna guess whether or not Susan and Jamie initially hated each other, but then ...?Never mind.
It was a lovely read, made ever better by kilts and tartans and Highland songs.
