https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2977275-the-prodigal-women
DNF, pg 100-something.
So I give it props for being one of those 'forgotten' pieces of feminine literary history.
That being said...my tolerance for uber-literary trudging doorstoppers that examine the depressing minutiae of Human Experience without the added spice of potboiling plots, flamboyant melodrama, or OTT romantic shenanigans is extremely low.
In short: I just do not care.
If I don't enjoy myself, I'm not gonna waste reading time.
Life's just too freakin' short.
I gave this weighty tome two chances to impress me in very different reading moods, but neither attempt managed to hook me.
It is really, mainly, about a young girl who does not fit into her own culture, and finds solace and acceptance from people who don't CARE about the mores that have always oppressed her.
(She grows up to become an artist but is long influenced by those carping voices.) The other women characters are interesting too.
They do not 'fit in' any more than the first character does.
I think Nancy Hale's message is pretty clear: women, too, are entitled to lives as individuals.
This was a very unusual message for women when she wrote the novel, in the early 1940s.
"Mothers, don't let your daughters grow up to be socialites..." A scary reminder to women to live their lives in a way that makes them happy, as opposed to twisting themselves into what they think men / a particular man want / wants.
One of my all-time favorite books that I have read more than once. A challenging read but it is set during the Roaring 20's (one of my most favorite time periods) and really illustrates what it was like to be a woman during that time. New freedoms and old constraints mixed together.
Reading this was a road trip through my own mother's time period and revealed a lot of what the culture of the 1920s might have been for her during her college years.
Bit of a slow start as the first chapters felt like a young adult novel of the post world war 1 period, but then it livened up as it moved into the Flapper Era of Boston and New York.
Our young protagonists then moved on into a "Sex and the City" phase, and then matured into more complex adults.
I found this old book at the recycling center and I'm so glad I decided to take it home. I'd never heard of it but it turned out to be one of those books that stays in my mind. Very enjoyable.
This is Florence King's "desert island" book.RIYL _The Group_
About five-- small-- kisses underneath a moon on a nightclub terrace do not constitute a major catastrophe."She turned on her side, away from him."I was going to ask for the honor of sharing your couch this evening, madam," he said.
"But seeing as you don't seem to like me very much I'll just trudge back to my own lonely room.""Darling, please, please do stay here.
Oh, Lambert, darling--"The writing still felt slow-going to me, the dialogue artificial, the characters unsympathetic.
I sadly closed the book and trudged away.
The characters lived around the time my mom and dad were born: late 1920s.
This woman author let's the men characters fuck around all they want, but these same men characters find out that their girlfriends have been to bed with other men, and oh boy!
I could have sworn this was a man writing as a woman, but noooooo.Okay this was written in the early 1940s, but it is no excuse to be writing this enabling crap.
Grrrr, I am so angry I wasted all this time trying to see if these asshole characters were going to get theirs.
4.5 Written in 1942, Nancy Hale was ahead of her time in the way she depicted the inner lives of women. The novel shows us a few generations of the same family, and through the eyes of her female characters, we see their struggles and disappointments as wives and mothers. I loved reading about this era, though I struggled with the tiny print of the edition I had. This book probably could have used an edit of about 100 pages, and yet I was swept up all the way to the end.
Long in parts, but an overall enjoyable historical read.
I found the 1942 edition of this book at the local Goodwill store and it impressed me because it presages the whole "women's lib" era of the 1960-70s.
The author not only clearly shows the social culture of the 1920-1930s but also looks at the psychological need in women to find their place in society and purpose in life through the men they marry.
The women and men in the novel manipulate each other through power, guilt, and jealousy, while feeling trapped, insecure, or unloved.
Each of the three main characters searches for a way to be "liberated" from her toxic relationship.
The novel is full of rich descriptions and colorful characters.
A challenging and sometimes uncomfortable read, but rewarding. Challenging in that these psychological portraits are complex and there are no easy answers for women trying to find their place in society and in their families, and it makes you think. While reading this book and for a couple weeks after I found myself worrying about the characters as if they were real people. I know this is one I will read again.
http://the-toast.net/2014/09/23/forgo...
The prodigal women by Nancy Hale (1942)
