https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/685172.Incidences
I thought I've seen the light after reading this book in 1999.
Finally, I knew what was outrageously funny to me!
So I used to carry this tiny paperback around and read aloud to my friends.
I've tortured my poor sister daily, opening the book and going "listen, listen, you will die laughing from this".
She did laugh a bit, though.
I have irritated her and many others, for sure.
I'm not sure how he will work his magic on me as a 30-something now, but boy did he punched me straight in to the stomach when I was searching for new literature highs.
He fell asleep and had another dream that he was walking past some bushes and a policeman was sitting in the bushes.At this point Kalugin woke up and decided not to sleep any more, but he immediately fell asleep and had a dream that he was sitting behind a policeman and some bushes were walking past.Now this is exactly the little boy in question’s brand of humour, and maybe just from the thrill of hearing it read aloud – from an ‘adult’ book nonetheless – he was giggling with delight by the second or third paragraph.
Una volta, per caso, a Torino, ho sentito Paolo Nori che leggeva alcuni di questi pezzi - Paolo Nori è lo scrittore e è quello che ha tradotto questo libro - e da allora, ogni tanto, prendo su e mi leggo alcuni di questi pezzi ripetendo dentro di me, o a voce alta se mi capita sotto qualcuno, l'accento parmigiano (male).Ad esempio, leggete - anche se non siete capaci - con l'accento parmigiano, questeScene dalla vita di Lev Tolstoj1.Lev Tolstoj amava molto i bambini, e non gli bastavano mai.
Lev Tolstoj amava i bambini, ma i grandi non li poteva sopportare, soprattutto Herzen.
I pro: non so se l'appendice di Paolo Nori, anche nell'edizione "Marcos y Marcos" sia alla fine del libro.
Nel qual caso, vi consiglio di leggerla prima di iniziare il libro, e non dopo; leggere prima la vita di Charms raccontata da Nori, aumenta la salivazione e rende la lettura più gustosa.I contro: se avete l'edizioni Adelphi, anziché l'edizione Einaudi e Marcos y Marcos, siete forse più fortunati.
Il fatto che la creativa sregolatezza dello stile "Noriano" traspaia anche nella "cura"del libro, e che la sua postfazione sia scritta alla "Charms", è troppo approssimativa riguardo a un autore che forse meriterebbe più attenzione.
Jedna starica se usled svoje preterane radoznalosti nagnula kroz prozor, ispala i razmrskala se.Kroz prozor se nagnula druga starica da bi videla onu koja se razmrskala, ali je usled svoje preterane radoznalosti takođe ispala kroz prozor, strmoglavila se i razmrskala.
Zatim je kroz prozor ispala treća starica, zatim četvrta, zatim peta.Kada je ispala i šesta starica, meni je dosadilo da ih gledam, pa sam pošao na Maljcevsku pijacu gde su, kažu, jednom slepcu poklonili pleteni šal.Evo, ja se zaljubila.
Posmatrano u kontekstu vremena u kojem je Harms stvarao (Staljinov teror) to daje strašnu sliku Rusije nakon revolucije.Knjižica se sastoji od 30 slučajeva koji u sebi sadrže apsurdnost života.
bez ičega.
i read it and nearly fell of the bench laughing. then i was reading it to my friends on the subway and nearly fell of my seat laughing. then they were reading it to each other and nearly fell off their seats as well.then we went home and that was all there was to it.
Stalin nipped another great one in the bud. Kharms is a delightful mix of Kafka, Vonnegut & Brautigan.
Let us take a moment to appreciate the fact that Daniil Kharms lived in a different time, when his writing was refreshingly different, and in which his strange, gnomic little stories were to be appreciated, cared for, distributed as samizdat, and ultimately remembered as a perfect example of black humor at the height of the Stalinist purges. Because if he was alive today, he would almost certainly be camped out as some kind of weird Twitter alternative comic (@selfkharm), a routine shitposter of surreal memes, and generally waste his observational talents in the bullshit arms race of Internet relevance.
"Io non capisco perchè tutti pensano che sono un genio: secondo me non sono, un genio. Ieri gli ho detto: Ascoltate! Ma che genio sarei? E loro mi han detto: Un genio. E io a loro Ma genio come? E loro non m'han detto come m'han detto solo che sono un genio che sono un genio. Ma secondo me io non sono, un genio. Dovunque compaio, adesso tutti cominciano a sussurrare a indicarmi "Ben ma, che roba è" dico io. E loro non vogliono sentire ragioni ho sempre paura che da un momento all'altro mi prendono mi portano in trionfo."[genio].
Vorrei che si pubblicassero più disastri di questo genere e meno cazzate perfette di tutt'altro tipo.Impagabile.
Ama enteresandır, bu kitap sıkıcı bir kitap değil.
Bir alıntı:"İşten çıkan adam eve dönerken yolda bir dilim Polonya ekmeği almış olan bir başka adama rastlar.Bununla ilgili bütün anlatacaklarım bu kadar.""YAZAR: Ben bir yazarım.OKUYUCU: Bence sen bir pisliksin!Bu yeni düşünce karşısında afallayan YAZAR birkaç dakika olduğu yerde dikilir ve yere düşüp ölür.
Dışarıya taşırlar onu.2.RESSAM: Ben bir ressamım.İŞÇİ: Bence sen bir pisliksin!Kâğıt gibi sararan RESSAM ince bir kamış gibi eğilir ve ansızın nefesi tükenir.
Dışarıya taşırlar onu.3.BESTECİ: Ben bir besteciyim.VANYA RUBLİYOV: Bence sen...!Nefesi kesilen BESTECİ arka üstü yere devrilir.
Ansızın dışarıya taşırlar onu.4.KİMYACI: Ben bir kimyacıyım.FİZİKÇİ: Bence sen...!Tek bir kelime daha edemeyen KİMYACI yere yığılır."

Rajoja rikkovaa sillä tavalla, joka melkein särkee päätä, koska missään ei ole mitään järkeä eikä mitään voi ymmärtää.
Si può passare ore dal tavolo all'armadio, e dall'armadio al divano e non trovare un'uscita.
Oppure ci si può coricare per terra e mettersi a guardare la polvere.
E' meglio farlo per ore capendo sempre di più col passare del tempo.
Del resto, è molto difficile fissare delle scadenze, ci son forse nella polvere delle scadenze?Ancora meglio guardare dentro un catino con dell'acqua.
Guardare l'acqua è sempre utile e istruttivo.
Anche se non si vede niente, va bene lo stesso.
Guardiamo nell'acqua, non si vede niente, e presto cominciamo a annoiarci.
Ma cosa contare, non lo sappiamo, c'è forse qualche conto da fare, nell'acqua?"
The translation is not as fluid as other English versions of his work, but this collection includes of some of Kharms' erotica I haven't read anywhere else. The stories are amazing, but the translation falls a little short for Kharms' prose.
Okuması oldukça eğlenceli, bir amaç güdülmeden yazılmış sürreal öyküler...
"Bisogna essere imperturbabili, vale a dire esser capaci di tacere e non cambiare l'espressione fissa del viso.E quando la persona che parla con te dice delle cose assurde, sii gentile con lui e dàgli ragione." (p. 109)"Prova a conservare l'indifferenza, quando finiscono i soldi." (p. 114)
An incredible book of ultra-short stories, dramatic fragments and weird non-fiction pieces...
Or rather, they echo and amplify each other (and sometimes distort or undermine each other too) to a point that is both *beyond* sense and yet somehow perfectly inevitable (and thus almost logical).Writing in the 1920s and 1930s, Kharms seems to anticipate the use of postmodernist fragmentation while simultaneously looking back at the grand tradition of Russian writing.
Old women falling out of windows, bricks falling on the heads of pedestrians, random accidents, disintegrating men...Another thing this volume does is demonstrate what a brilliantly funny letter writer Kharms was.
Kharms; a collection of short stories, essays and plays written in Soviet Russia during the 1930s.
I'm still not sure if i can.I've read some essays by Kharms before (which ultimately lead to me buying this book), and i I find myself myself going \(O_o)/ all the freaking time.
The thing is, though, i enjoy going \(O_o)/.
I'm as glad as I'm surprised that the this-is-retarded-let's-save-it-people came across the writings before the this-is-retarded-let's-burn-it-people.When reading Kharms, don't expect a plot or a punchline.
Give it a shot, read some Kharms and see if you like it or not.
Oddly hilarious, and hilariously odd, this collection of sundry writings by Kharms disturbs and charms.
The so-called 'Incidents' make up much of the book, and are like literary candy - small stories that range from the mundane to the violent.
Kharms experimented with micro forms way before the Internet age, but this style coincides with our trend towards bite-size chunks of information (I was reminded, in a way, of Jennifer Egan's Twitter-enabled short story for The New Yorker).
The use of dreamlike recursion, repetitive/recursive names, and the author's constant threat of involvement make these stories more like unsettling co(incidences): wait, did I dream this, or read it?
A predecessor to what we now deem "absurdism" and the most innovative reject of Russian Futurism, Daniil Kharms' writing is one of the most incisive literature in the past century.
The only thing keeping me from giving this book a 5/5 rating is the translation - Saunders' adaptations are adequate but fall short compared to Gibian's in Russia's Lost Literature of the Absurd (which also includes a great play by Aleksandr Vvedensky) or Yankelevich's Today I Wrote Nothing (by far the best translation of Kharms' work).
The most redeeming quality of this collection is the inclusion of Kharms' erotica, which admittedly is as interesting as it is perverse.
my brother used to read this book to me when i was little. he is 20 years younger than me. he still hasn't learned how to read. he also doesn't know how to speak. in fact, i don't have a brother so maybe it's best not to talk about him anymore.
Why couldn't he have written a novel? It would have rivaled "A Confederacy of Dunces." These stories are funny and outrageous and perfect for the easily bored. (Note: same stories as black coat anth.)
A very entertaining collection of "incidences" by Russian absurdist Daniil Kharms. I couldn't think of anything more relevant to read for the start of 2017.
A book of short vignettes (often only a few paragraphs) by Russian surrealist/absurdist writer Daniil Kharms (1905-1942). They are witty, violent, sad, petty, clever, funny, and more. In one, Pushkin trips over Gogol, then Gogol trips over Pushkin and so on and so on; in another, old women plummet out the window, one after the other, and die; in yet another, Comrade Mashkin kills Comrade Koshkin; and let's not forget about Tolstoy going off neighing like a horse. These 'incidences' are inventive and ridiculous.
ไมคอยมีความรูเรืองรัสเซียสมัยตนศตวรรษที 20 หรอกนะวาเปนยังไงแตเลมนีนีตลก absurd มาก
ไม่ค่อยมีความรู้เรื่องรัสเซียสมัยต้นศตวรรษที่ 20 หรอกนะว่าเป็นยังไงแต่เล่มนี้นี่ตลก absurd มาก
the new yorker totally discovered this guy a full four months after i did. it's purely a coincidence that i'm recommending him to you the same week they published an old story of his.
Absolutely great! I don't remember when was the last time I laughed so hard while reading. I want to read this again soon!
Brīnišķīgas likumsakarības absurda teātrī, kurā ikviens no mums ir aktieris. Lasīju un no bailēm smējos pilnā balsī.
"A me interessano solo le scemenze; solo quello che non ha nessun senso pratico. Mi interessa la vita solo nelle sue manifestazioni assurde. Eroismo, pathos, audacia, moralità, pulizia, etica, commozione e fervore sono parole e sentimenti che non posso sopportare.Ma capisco perfettamente e apprezzo: entusiasmo e ammirazione, ispirazione e disperazione, passione e riservatezza, dissoluzione e castità, tristezza e dolore, felicità e riso""Avere solo ingegno e talento è troppo poco. Bisogna avere anche energia, interesse reale, purezza di pensiero e senso del dovere"
