https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/63141.The_Story_of_Christianity
But only as a primary introduction.Its chief virtues are that it is highly readable (high school reading level) and easy to understand; the chapters are brief and generally well-organized; it also provides a basic orientation of Christian history within the context of the larger "secular" history.
He has no problem dealing with some of Christian history's darker moments, but, for whatever reason, chooses to ignore these extremely significant facets of medieval Christianity.
3. It is very heavily slanted toward Western Christianity, and generally neglects the vast riches of Eastern Christianity.So, read the book for a very basic introduction, but do so with a grain of salt.
For instance, the Pharisees are often castigated in sermons but Gonzalez notes that much of the tension between Jesus' followers and the Pharisees was because they came from the same social classes and held to similar tenets such as the final resurrection.
Gonzalez, who has also written three volumes on the history of Christian thought, concisely explains theological developments and tensions that emerged throughout the centuries.
He makes us aware of how Christian belief and practice has shifted; for instance, early Christianity emphasized joyful celebration of Jesus' victory over sin and death rather than the later moody obsession with the passion.
Gonzalez does a great job of presenting an extremely large scope of history in an easy to read and engaging manner.
I think overall he did a great job of presenting the highs and lows of the movements, while still providing a healthy balance.
I think he could have spent a little more time on the Inquisition (as mentioned on a post below), but he did an otherwise good job highlighting the key turning points leading up to the Protestant Reformation.
I would recommend this book for anyone who seeks an overall summary of the early church to the dawn of the reformation.
As an undergraduate textbook this was a huge hit with my students. It is weak on world Christianity, but so are most textbooks. Really readable and great at combining theology and stories of practical Christians. My students said they planned on keeping it as a resource book.
i love justo! this history book really reads like a story, quite painless. he is honest and i respect that about him.
The first book of this two volume series is a concise yet in-depth exploration into the story of Christianity from the church’s birth at Pentecost to right before the Reformation.
Gonzalez does a wonderful job at not only presenting the history and key figures instrumental in Christianity’s development but also by providing insight into how these figures and events shaped Christianity (both Protestantism and Catholicism) as we see it today.
This book is a wealth of knowledge and insight underlying why we believe what we believe and how our modern day church came to be.
It should be a must read for all Christians but most specifically those serving in influential roles of teaching and serving in the church.
Good, broad overview of the events (more than the theology) of church history from just after the New Testament until just before the Reformation. The beginning, for me, started out quick and easy to read.The Medieval period chapters were more obscure and difficult for me to track, but that has more to do with the breadth of content more than the quality of the book. There was more going on in the 10th century than the first, so it is much harder to cover in a concise way.
This is one of the most clear references to the history of the Church. It's factual and it's set up almost like a story. It's very engaging with how it presents history and how events in the world influenced events in the church.
For almost a year, I have been exploring the relations of Christian faith and politics.
While Gonzalez's view is necessarily broad, he captures the personalities and larger movements that triggered shifts in the posture of Christendom toward money, violence, political power, and its own doctrine.One feature for which I was grateful was Gonzalez's reckoning with a key limitation of history: an account of the lives of the oppressed and marginalized.
Despite this limitation, he recognizes voices of resistance and constructive as well as deconstructive critiques of the larger movements.Obviously, a book like this can only be a launching point to deeper exploration.
They aren't covered in enough detail to know much about them, but there is enough text to annoy those looking for a dynamic narration.Reading other reviews, I'm not sure what people were looking for "in other places." Christianity didn't take substantial hold in Africa.
Perhaps other reviewers bought into John Philip Jenkins's story of "Lost Christianities." If so, there is a reason they were "lost;" almost all of them were heretical sects.Edit, for 2nd Edition: Gonzalez appears to have edited this addition for the worse.
I'm not even sure Gonzalez is a Christian now.
Two nice things to say: Easy to read.
No technical historian language at all.
No footnotes or endnotes.
Also, the section on Catholic missionary expansion into the new world was fascinating and often neglected.
WHO KNEW MISSIONS DIDNT BEGIN WITH WILLIAM CAREY?
Surprise!
Catholics were overseas missionaries a full 300 years before Carey including India and China!
Other than the above, the book is blatantly anti-Catholic throughout.
If you are interested in specifics let me know and I can send page numbers.
He doesn't even mention the 500 year old cloak with her impression still intact and on display in Mexico City.
By far the best introduction to the history of Christianity that I have yet read; definitely the most fair, balanced, and unbiased, a real rarity in a field filled with competing confessional "scholars." This book is the place to start if you're interested in the history of Christianity.
he includes the typical baseless conjecture about the ministry of women in the early Church and 2.
once the book gets out of the early Church, the author focuses almost exclusively on the West; the only time the East is mentioned after about AD 400 is in its relationship with the West.
Outside of those two relatively minor complaints, though, this book was excellent.
A reliable, thorough, balanced and readable introduction to church history. The two volume format allows Gonzalez enough space to give each topic the treatment it deserves without being impossibly long -- chapter lengths are quite manageable. More satisfying and useful than some of the single volume surveys I've read. A good balance between retelling events and tracing theological development. Very limited references but the suggested reading lists after each section are helpful.
I had never before read church history. I was really impressed with this book. Joel taught it at a class I took, and I had no idea how fascinated I was with religious society throughout history. Though seemingly obvious, it was so spiritually freeing to think that at one time there were no church "norms" and that everyone was once a heretic--based on who was in leadership. It frees me to question my faith openly and deal with my doubts honestly.
A narrative history that presents the people, dramatic events, and ideas that shaped the first fifteen centuries of the church's life and thought - including major events outside of Europe, such as the Spanish and Portuguese conquest of the New World. This is one of the books for a Spring 2016 course at Brite.
I read these out of order, but enjoyed the both. Gonzalez writes very well. The chapters are quick and easy, yet provide plenty of information. The only thing I would ask is that he back up some of his claims with annotations and footnotes. Without these, it is hard to recommend for academic work or research. That being said, at 500+ pages it is definitely an intermediate-level resource.
I am reading this for Wednesday night class with my wonderful church family. I am looking forward to learn a lot from this book and class too. I do have the second volume of this book as well.12-18-2013, I just finish reading this book.It is a very educational book and I do want to learn more. I am looking forward to read the Second Volume this coming Fall 2014 with my church family.
This is a great history book! Rather than breaking history down into unpalatable, terse facts, dates, and names, it keeps to the narrative of time and integrates movements to help readers better see the larger picture.
Balanced overview of church history up to the reformation. Quite a long book but not difficult reading.
Great introductory text into the first half of Christian history. This is a pretty standard text for classes and deserves the place.
This gave rise to the beginnings of "orthodox Christianity": reaffirmed elements of Jewish heritage like doctrines of creation, the positive value of the created world and rule of God over all history (unlike gnosticism), resurrection of the body, and a coming final reign of God. This is summed up in the Apostle's Creed (doctrines based on the unity of entire apostolic tradition rather than than one person that gnosticism taught) that chatecumens affirmed at baptisms to demonstrate their faith in the bourgeoning orthodox faith as opposed to gnosticism or Marcionism.Ch.9:Teachers of the Church: Towards end of 2nd century, in response to Marcionism and gnosticism, scholars began making more complete expositions of the Christian faith.
This book is not a theological treatise, but a history, told in story form, of Christianity.
(And I will be processing it for a long time to come.)If you are interested in the theological side of the story I believe you would find it equally informative, although it will take an open mind.
And whether you are interested in Christianity or just understanding the world around you, the context it explores is important.
In many cases, there simply isn’t as much reference material, and many important figures and events are left to some speculation.This book probably could have been ten times as large as it is, but the author knows when enough is enough.
A careful use of a notebook could have easily remedied this issue, though, and even though the people in the book were numerous, the author does a wonderful job of communicating the major events and feelings at the time.We learn of schisms between East (Greek) and West (Roman) over scripture interpretation.
One must keep in mind that it covers a 1,500 year time span from the beginnings of Christianity to the beginnings of the reformation.
In the discussion it would have been beneficial to have been given both perspectives.It is at this point that as a reader I am left wondering if the entire book does not present the history of Christianity from a biased perspective.
But what is missing is discussion of the everyday life on the religious dimension of the lay people of the time.The book ends just at the the time that the reformation is starting to develop.
In the past few years I heard a lot of people (friends and acquaintances alike) tell me about the bad influence of religion on the world and people and that it should completely disappear.
Therefore The Story of Christianity was an excellent read!
It tells about how the religion came to be and who were the prominent figures behind it.
Or how the Christians were persecuted in the various regimes of the Roman Empire.
As an historian myself (for video games so a completely different field) I was curious to how the author would deal with such an ancient topic.
While this first volume touches on many of the important events and themes in early Christianity, it does ultimately serve as a survey.
There are many topics and events that are given very limited time, and one major frustration with this book is that fails to clearly chart some of the major developments of the church (celibacy of the priesthood, purgatory, indulgences, assembly of the canon, etc.) throughout the chapters.
Despite these issues, this book is well worth the time for those starting into Christian history or for those brushing up.
This book casts a very wide but shallow net.
What I wanted most when looking for a book on church history was a purely historical account of the ideas and leaders of the church, not a book trying to convince me that Christianity is right or wrong.
This book is exactly what I wanted in that respect, though the author does assume his readers already have an understanding of Christian principles.
On content and accessibility I would give this 5 stars, but unfortunately my edition had a number of typos, words omitted altogether and issues with text wrap on photos, where photos were covering up small sections of text.
So, 4 stars.
This book was amazing and easily the best and most balanced church history book I've read.
The focus on non-European countries and issues are easily one of the hallmarks of this book.
It is also one of the only church books you can find that has a complete audiobook version with it.
Michael Kramer, the narrator for the Robert Jordan and Brandon Sanderson books, easily one of the best in the biz, narrates this book and IT IS WONDERFUL.
I'm going to buy the print version as well.
No wonder Ligonier rated this as their #2 favorite church history book.
A great introduction to the sweep of Church history - I would like to compliment my reading of this with something like Butler Bass's A People's History of Christianity - something that focuses more on the everyday 'saints' of the faith, as opposed to its doctrinal 'giants' - but overall, a good springboard into further study.
My practical takeaway: if the early church recognized the need for an intense, 3-year catechism - in their context, converts were no longer educated Jews immersed in the story of Israel - how might my context learn from this?
Most of the churchgoers around me (if I'm not mistaken) lack basic biblical literacy, etc.
If you're interested in learning more about the early church fathers, religion in the middle ages, Protestant and Catholic reformation in Europe, and the spread of the Gospel across the globe, I'd highly recommend working through these two volumes!
The chapters are short enough read in less than 25 minutes, so you could break it down into manageable chunks and work through it one day at a time.
It's wise to understand our foundations, especially as it concerns the growth of Christ's kingdom and spread of the Gospel.
