https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1909418.Thou_Shell_of_Death
Nicholas Blake (the pen name of Cecil Day-Lewis) introduced his fictional detective Nigel Strangeways in A Question of Proof, set in a boys prep school.
He has been receiving a number of malicious letters and the last says he will be killed on Boxing Day. However, rather than staying in seclusion, O'Brien has invited what he considers to be the most likely suspects to a Christmas house party and he wants Strangeways to come down and keep an eye on things.This is, in many ways, a glorious example of Golden Age Detective Fiction.
Nicholas Blake, who wrote about twenty detective novels starting in the mid-1930s, was actually the poet Cecil Day Lewis.
Thou Shell of Death, written in 1936, is in some ways a typical English detective novel of the period – all country houses and Oxford dons and cigars and port and that sort of thing.
His detective, Nigel Strangeways, is an aristocrat and an Oxford graduate, and a strictly amateur sleuth.
I have to say that the murder at the heart of this novel is extremely ingenious, very complicated, and tremendously satisfying.
Thou Shell of Death is tremendous fun.
From pages 34-35 - Lucilla Thrale certainly lived up to O'Brien's description of "professional peach"; she stepped from the car with the air of Cleopatra disembarking from her "burnished throne": even the bleak Somerset wind grew love-sick with her perfume.
"O, rare for Antony," murmured Nigel, as she undulated towards the front door.
Philip Starling overheard him.
"Pick 'em up like that two a penny at Brighton any week-end.
No features." "You must admit she has a presence, a magnificent carriage, Philip." "Gah!
Walks like a jaguar with the gripes," replied the little don with unexpected venom: "you have such old-fashioned tastes, Nigel."
Strangeways is a likeable detective whose approach relies more on his understanding of human psychology than on looking for hidden clues and working out timetables, and whose attraction to one of the suspects, explorer Georgia Cavendish, adds further depth to his character.Nicholas Blake is a pen name of the academic Cecil Day Lewis, and his style is definitely erudite, scattered with classical and literary references and wonderful phrases such as "no fog, Nigel was thinking....could hope to compete with the utter caliginous inspissated fog in his own mind." However, Blake's books are also great fun, with plenty of comical moments and a spirit of adventure.
I generally enjoyed Thou Shell Of Death, but it has its weaknesses.This is classic Golden Age stuff: a famous War Hero who is now a virtual recluse receives some threatening letters.
The development was well done and kept me reading; it is tightly, if not wholly plausibly, plotted and it’s an enjoyable read.
I found the dénouement rather a trial as the long slog through repeated convoluted explanations became a bit of a chore.Overall, this is an enjoyable Golden Age detective novel.
Its posh, well-connected detective puts it in a similar sort of genre as Dorothy L.
A very classic mystery: Nigel Strangeways is sent to monitor a country house party held by a former WWI flying ace who's been receiving threatening letters.
The guests are an Oxford don, a sexy starlet, a sleazy club owner, an adventuress, and a staid banker.
Of course the guy gets killed and Strangeways must find the murderer among this group.
In addition to turning out a solid mystery with a good twist ending, Blake is also a charming prose stylist.
He captures both the small details of English life (people in this book really love eating toast) and an idealistic vision of a world where heroism and honor have real meaning.
This is one of the early Nigel Strangeways mysteries and, in lots of ways, one of the most traditional - albeit with Blake's own twist on the Golden Age genre. Set during a house-party at Christmas we have a wonderfully eccentric cast of characters (including Georgia who we meet for the first time), poison pen letters, red herrings galore and lots of confusion! Nigel sifts through the clues and chaos... Huge fun, an ingenious plot, and superbly witty writing.
Nigel finds himself part of a Christmas house party with a selection of people who might or might not be the letter writer.When Fergus is found shot dead with his own revolver on Boxing Day morning in circumstances which indicate it may have been suicide Nigel is faced with a complex case to unravel.
I really enjoyed this well plotted and well written crime story which recreates a bygone age as it was first published in the nineteen thirties.
It served to remind me of the much higher standard of education expected of crime story readers in the nineteen thirties though it did not spoil my enjoyment of the story.
My friend Nancy has been reading some Nicholas Blake and after reading her review, I decided to see what my library has of his books.
I found an anthology with three books: Thou Shell of Death, The Beast Must Die, and The Corpse in the Snowman.
The first one, Thou Shell of Death, features regular Blake sleuth and private investigator Nigel Strangeways.
A famous aviator has been receiving death threats and wants a detective on hand to try to catch the killer during a Christmas dinner party.
But come the 26th, Nigel finds the aviator dead in a shed, with only a single set of footprints leading to the building.
Too many uninteresting suspects. Nowhere near the dry fun of the first book of the series.
The Great Fergus O'Brien, an ex-flyer in WWI with the most German kills, is staying at Dower House on the Marlinworth's estate, and needs some help.
Nigel travels to the estate with the Marlinworths and gets to know Fergus some before the others (who might include the man sending the notes) arrive to spend Christmas.
Fergus seems to spend a lot of time, including sleeping, in a hut in the front yard.
Lastly, Georgia Cavendish, the African explorer and her middle-aged brother Edward arrive.
The three main suspects are now Georgia, her brother Edward, and Lucilla.
Originally published on my blog: Nonstop Reader. Thou Shell of Death  is a re-release of the second book in the Nigel Strangeways mystery series by Nicholas Blake. Originally published in 1936, this reformatting by Agora books is 266 pages and available in ebook format. Earlier editions are available in other formats. Fun factoid: the author, Nicholas Blake, was the pseudonym of Cecil Day-Lewis, Poet Laureat and father of multiple academy award winner Daniel Day-Lewis.I've mentioned multiple tim
is a re-release of the second book in the Nigel Strangeways mystery series by Nicholas Blake.
Originally published in 1936, this reformatting by Agora books is 266 pages and available in ebook format.
The meanings are self explanatory in the dialogue so it shouldn't detract for modern readers.It's a wonderful thing to sit inside with a glass of wine on one side, a fireplace on the other side and enjoy a classic book whilst watching snow fall outside the windows.
The denouement was really cleverly done.It's possibly worth noting that (most of) the series is available to download and read for free for Kindle Unlimited subscribers.
Police procedures also does not reek of authenticity.But compared to most Christie's,it's a better written book simply because of the writing style .The author's poetic tendencies shines through as does his leftist sympathies.The story mostly stays within the chatcombe house grounds except a brilliantly sketched but long delayed outing to Ireland which clears most of the mist of mystery (proud of myself for that sentence ).Go for this one over Blake's first Strangeways ...
En esta novela de Nicholas Blake nos encontramos con una historia de detectives al estilo tradicional inglés.
Una casa solitaria, un asesinato, un grupo reducido de sospechosos y un detective aficionado, - Nigel Strangeways en su segunda aparición –, que colabora con la policía y finalmente resuelve el caso, y da la explicación en las últimas páginas.La novela está bien escrita, con buena caracterización de ambiente y personajes.
A promising beginning descends into ridiculous, frustrating madness, endless padding of the narrative that comes off like page watching, and coincidence based flim-flam Also, Nigel Strangeways seems an awful prig in this outing. Of the few novels in the series that I've read, this one is the least successful. No, thank you.I received an ecopy from the publishers and NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.
This book is vintage Nicholas Blake. Fabulous mystery which takes you down many roads before the final reveal. It really keeps your interest throughout the whole book, and in parts it leaves you gasping. a classic golden age mystery, all the clues are there to solve the mystery, but somehow the twists and turns are added with such subtlety that the conclusion is a surprise.Great book
This book is vintage Nicholas Blake. Fabulous mystery which takes you down many roads before the final reveal. It really keeps your interest throughout the whole book, and in parts it leaves you gasping. a classic golden age mystery, all the clues are there to solve the mystery, but somehow the twists and turns are added with such subtlety that the conclusion is a surprise.Great book
An enjoyable golden age mystery written between the wars. The author admits in the book that his inspiration was from the 1607 play Revenger's Tragedy which has also been made into a British film, I think Nigel Strangeway's version is better.
Just OK for me.
Classic locked room mystery, with a very satisfying body count. My favourite Nigel Strangeways so far. TW for racist language.
I loved the twists and turns of this book. Truly a book chuck full of entertainment. Didn't see that ending coming. I received an advance reader copy from Crime Classics. Opinions are my own.
Another fabulous vintage mystery. I love this series. This is my favorite so far (I've read four), partly because it has lots of twists and turns, but also because it includes a romance.
I have a new favorite author to mine!Cecil Day-Lewis (father to Daniel Day-Lewis) was a serious poet when he decided to embark on a new experience-writing one of those new-fangled mystery detective stories.
Now, I'm kicking myself in the pants.)Inside the front cover tells me why I bought this in the first place:"Mr. Nicholas Blake...must be read by everyone interested in the development of the detective story.
Although there are a few loose ends (what became of Bellamy and Georgia, whence came the fortune?) and a typical Londoner's view of the Irish, (denigrating), I found this much tidier and intellectually challenging than most detective novels of today, and a welcome change.
Written in 1936, and the second in the series of Nigel Strangeways mysteries by C.
Very, very reminiscent of the later Peter Wimsey novels (in fact one of the characters in this one is reading "the latest Sayers novel"--and in 1936 only Busman's Honeymoon was left to be written).
(Sayers fans: sound familiar?) Georgia Cavendish is a much more appealing character than Harriet Vane, and Nigel will eventually marry her.
A guilty party is identified and dies in the next-to-last chapter, and in the final chapter Nigel explains why almost all the (pretty reasonable) analysis given by the the police superintendent to describe what happened and why was in fact wrong.
One of the earliest Nigel Strangeways mysteries, and very satisfying in the Golden Age style of classic British mystery novels.Fergus O'Brien, World War I flying ace and a renowned adventurer, has been receiving threatening letters that intimate he will be killed on the day after Christmas.
A manservant, cook and two maids make up the household staff.Sure enough, O' Brien is found murdered in his writing hut, with only one set of shoe tracks visible in the snow- leading  towards  the hut, not away from it.
It is only then that he unravels the devilishly complicated mystery, or set of mysteries, that lie behind the events at O'Brien's Christmas party.
With his second Nigel Strangeways novel, Nicholas Blake (the pen name of poet Cecil Day Lewis) matured into one of the best mystery writers of the so-called Golden Age. Though Shell of Death takes up many of the conventions of the genre, such as the gathering of all the suspects into a country manor house, and makes them sing due to the strength of characterization and dialogue.
That's not to say that the mystery itself is an afterthought--it is an elaborate con but one that is carefully revealed and just plausible enough to suspend your disbelief.
What's more, Nigel S.

A little disappointing: the amateur sleuth protagonist is pretty much a cliche who goes about exclaiming phrases such as "By Jove!" and who conveniently remembers vital clues when the story is very near to the end.
Also, the way the other chractes keep telling him how brilliant he is when his guesses seem not particularly impressive gets very annoying.
Lastly, the police allow him a completely free hand with lying to and entrapping the suspects, explicitly giving a nod and a wink that this is okay because he isn't an official law enforcement person.
I found this mystery very disappointing, considering how often it is recommended as a great example of golden age mystery fiction.
If you are a Shakespearean scholar, you might enjoy the references in this book more than I did. Our plucky heroine (I've had enough of them) travels extensively to research the death of her PhD mentor, and the plot takes many, many twists and turns.
Nicholas Blake was the pseudonym of the Poet Laureate, Cecil Day-Lewis. I love crime novels like those of Henning Mankell, etc. but these are more in the manner of the Lord Peter Wimsey novels of Dorothy L Sayers.
