https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/246964.Double_Indemnity
Then I saw for maybe the third time in my life Billy Wilder's film version of Cain's Double Indemnity and it was even better than the Postmans.
It made me appreciate that novel more, too, in the process.Cain's Double Indemnity is one of the great noir novels of all time (as is Postman).
So you have one of the best one-two combinations in noir storytelling ever here; add to Cain's terrific plot Chandler's amazing dialogue, and there you have it, a classic screenplay.
وقتی اسطوره ها باهم بخواهند کاری را انجام بدهند نتیجه اش باید جالب و در این مورد خواندنی باشد.کتاب اگرچه به خوبی «خواب گران» نیست اما همان حال و هوا را دارد.
نکته ی جالب دیگری که درباره کتاب وجود دارد مصاحبه ای است که در انتهای کتاب از بیلی وایلدر (درباره چندلر) چاپ شده است.
فیلم طبق معمول اصلاً به خوبی کتاب نیست اما خودش از مشهورهای کلاسیک است.
در واقع امتیاز: 3.5/5يک امتيازش برای تولیدِ کتاب عاشقانه و نه رفع تکلیفش؛ با مقايسهی متن چندلر/وایلر، افزونههای نسخهی نهايی فیلمنامه و نسخهی نهايی فيلم به شکل مجزا و مشخص، انگار تصحیح انتقادی دیوان شعری کلاسیک ولی در عین حال بدون ایجاد مزاحمت اخلال در خواندن.
در واقع امتیاز: 3.5/5يک امتيازش برای تولیدِ کتاب عاشقانه و نه رفع تکلیفش؛ با مقايسه‌ی متن چندلر/وایلر، افزونه‌های نسخه‌ی نهايی فیلم‌نامه و نسخه‌ی نهايی فيلم به شکل مجزا و مشخص، انگار تصحیح انتقادی دیوان شعری کلاسیک ولی در عین حال بدون ایجاد مزاحمت اخلال در خواندن.
If you have any interest in noir, screenplays, movies or popular American literature, this script by Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler is a must-read, like the unparalleled -- but flawed -- novel by James M.
Could anyone MAKE this stuff up?That is not to distract from the point that, despite its weak ending, this is one of the most nearly perfect imperfect crime novels ever written, and the brilliant screenplay by Wilder and Chandler completely remedies the weak ending with a one-two punch that leaves you gasping.
They just don't write 'em like this any more.Read the novel, see the movie, gape in awe at the genius of it all.
Double Indemnity written by Raymond Chandler and Billy WilderAnother version of this note and thoughts on other books are available at:- https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list... and http://realini.blogspot.ro/This is one of the best films, found on this and other respectable lists:- http://entertainment.time.com/2005/02...And Double Indemnity has been present in my preoccupations lately.Not because I plan a crisscross, to “swap murders” like in Strangers on the Train, Throw Mama from the Train a

Good pacing, good dialogue. Chandler's femmes aren't usually such black widow cliches, which makes the ending fairly predictable, but he creates effective ambiance throughout.
What makes it work so well to is that a more 'conventional' story might have Keyes as the main character, in the more typical trying-to-figure-it-out sort of way.
While the code is still enforced by having the killer(s) brought to justice/killed by the end, the Crime-Doesn't-Pay aspect is outweighed by the existential loss of it all (another great example of this, of a character who thinks in full logical terms but doesn't get the emotional and accidental bumps in the story road is in Kubrick's The Killing).
And I’m not just referring to the most obvious changes - the beginning and the ending scenes, which change our entry to the story as well as our sense of the conclusion, but more subtle changes, such as Phyllis reaction in the car after the murder: in the novel she is in freakout mode but in the screenplay she is calm, “perfect.”My favorite change, though, is the first scene between Walter and Phyllis, because that is where the screenplay puts the focus on the characters in a way that the novel doesn’t; in fact, in the novel, Cain completely misses the opportunity to create tension and dramatic interaction between them.
Like the movie itself, I never get tired of this script. I reread it at least once a year. It's too bad Raymond Chandler hated the movie biz so much -- Because oh, man, could he write crisp, crackling dialogue. As much as he hated working with Chandler, Wilder at least gave him that much. Brilliant! Watch the film. Read the screenplay. Then steal what you can for you own script. You'd have Chandler's blessing.
Brilliant. “I have a friend who’s got a funny theory. He says when two people commit a murder they’re kind of on a trolley car, and one can’t off without the other. They’re stuck with each other. They have to go riding clear to the end of the line. And the last stop is the cemetery.”
This screenplay reads almost as good as the movie plays. Chandler an absolute American treasure!
I usually don't like things in screenplay form. But this was excellent.
I highly recommend the mapping of Chandler's California Homes.
