https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32499.The_Pelican_Brief
این در حالی ست، که او به برتری حکومت بر مسائل دیگر، و برتری فرد بر حکومت، و حفظ محیط زیست، و دفاع از سرخ‌پوستان و سیاه‌پوستان، باور دارد؛ و ...؛از متن: «اسمیت»، من «گری‌»ام.
تایید را از منبع دیگری گرفتم، درباره ی «پرونده پلیکان»، سند مهمی است «اسمیت».
یک ربع دیگر با «کراتهامر» در دفتر «فلدمن» باشید.
ـ چی پیدا کرده‌ ای؟ ـ «گارسیا» پیام خداحافظی گذاشته است.
ـ نوار کاست گذاشته است؟ ـ بله، تا یک ربع دیگر آنجاییم.
فکر نمی‌کنم «اسمیت».
The Pelican Brief is darker than Grisham's usual works, but it's still very well-written and original, and its descriptions of characters and scenery are very vivid and realistic.
I worked at a law firm where part of the movie was filmed.
When Julia Roberts's character goes into a law firm to ask for a particular lawyer only to find out that he no longer works there and she leaves, that is my old firm.
It is an ornate marble lobby with a small stream of water in the middle of the lobby.
She goes through a glass door and can either go up an escalator or up some stairs to the reception desk, which overlooks the lobby.
The walls are all glass and she can see across the floor into the conference room where the receptionist goes.
I read this when it came out and I was a restless teenager. I never saw the movie. I only gave it three stars because I remember it being exciting but still considered it pulp fiction. Perhaps the topic of assassinated Supreme Court justices over environmentalism will become a more relevant topic soon and it merits a re-read? Or not.
This book was a lot more suspenseful and entertaining than I thought it would be.
I don't know why I thought it would be so boring, since John Grisham is so popular.
It was the first book I'd read by Grisham, so I really didn't know what was coming.
I had three problems with it: 1) Although, like I said, the book as a whole was really suspenseful, I thought the end was a bit anticlimatic.
Darby could get a bit preachy at times.
Read it years ago, remember I liked it, entertaining read. I used to like reading Grisham's books, maybe I'll try a new one soon, sort of lost track of all the books he wrote in the past years.
4 stars. ⭐⭐⭐⭐I was so intrigued by this plot, the story had me engaged throughout and I really enjoyed it. Highly recommend if you’re a fan of John Grisham’s work!
4 stars. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️I was so intrigued by this plot, the story had me engaged throughout and I really enjoyed it. Highly recommend if you’re a fan of John Grisham’s work!
¡Esta bastante bien! Aunque me esperaba un final un poco más impactante.
My first Grisham novel and probably my last.
The book was much too formulaic and a bit dull (not for an avid mystery reader and an adrenaline junkie)though at certain points it was a fast page turner.
The plot was really weak.
Maybe this environmental conspiracy plot was breakthrough in the 90s but in 2010, it's a tad bit overused and overdone.
What made this book unbearable was Grisham characterization of Darby.
She is the generic 90s heroine...extremely smart, absolutely stunning, with a spunky attitude with zero faults...making her unrelatable.
Apparently, for Grisham, damsel in distress always needs to be attached to a white knight.
i had read a less well-known grisham book, and was pretty disappointed, so i decided to read this one, which is supposedly one of his best. terrible ending, tedious story for the most part. if you can read quickly you might not think you're wasting your time on this book.
This was a superb read.
I really loved the character of Darby Shaw, a young, brave, brilliant minded law student.
The story is a quick page turner with heart racing action and suspense.
I felt that I was with Darby Shaw every step of the way.
His characters have always been felt so close to our hearts and Darby Shaw is no exception.
I really like this story and the characters.
The reading was extremely pleasant, enjoyable and satisfying.
Anyone who is interested in action, suspense with a legal surrounding must surely check this out.
I read this book when I was a freshman in high school. I was looking for a book to read for a book report in my English class and the librarian suggested that I read The Pelican Brief. I read it and the rest is history. 15 years and 36 books later, I'm still reading Grisham's books. He is my favorite author and it all started with this novel.
This book actually had me sweating at certain parts. Such fantastic suspense and drama. The last quarter of the book flew by because I simply couldn't put it down!
The Rosenberg affair was messy – three people dead, three 22-caliber bullets to the head of each victim Rosenberg, a guard and an aid.Down in bayou country Tulane University law professor Thomas Callahan on hearing the news got roaring drunk to ease the pain.
Rosenberg was one of his idols and he couldn’t believe the end had come.While the whole country pondered the reason behind the killings Darby Shaw, a bright law student and bed partner of professor Callahan turns sleuth.
Shaw is only half convinced that she is on to something, however, in spite of her skepticism she turns the pages over to Callahan.Callahan attends the Rosenberg funeral in Washington and passes the brief along to a colleague.
Me parece evidente que es uno de sus primeros trabajos, es menos legalista que el anterior que menciono y usa más los típicos elementos usados para agradar a un público más amplio, incluído cierto componente romántico sútil.
Esta, a fin de parecer presuntuosa en mi afirmacion con solo dos libros del autor leídos, parece ser una característica de John Grisham que no me desagrada.Creo que de este autor me gustan más sus libros con más componente legalista, deformación profesional supongo.
Sus capítulos cortos, sus continúos cambios de perspectiva y su ritmo rápido que se mantiene a lo largo de todo el libro con continos descubrimientos hacen de este libro una lectura amena, rápida e interesante.
In questi momenti si scatenano con più forza la mia passione per i libri e la gratitudine ai rispettivi autori.Allora come potrei spiegare un giudizio così mediocre?Mentre scrivo osservo e scruto alla mia destra la copertina di quello che viene considerato uno dei "migliori Grisham".
Sono figuranti scontati, banali, insipidi e anonimi.Devo essere onesta: il mio pessimo giudizio può essere stato influenzato in maniera massiccia dalle aspettative che negli ultimi anni ho alimentato nei confronti di Grisham.
I found great pleasure in this book.
Grisham wove an outstanding, well researched plot.
His characters move forward into the plot with three dimensions shaping with each word and act.
I couldn’t put the book down.
Grisham blesses me, and gives me what I need, the way S.
The power of this book, for me, came through the characters, and the outstanding dialogue.
The plot unfolds near the end, explaining the brief, and a rich antagonist with mob-like power, tied to government officials.
I plan to read more of Grisham, and more in this genre.
This book was hard to get into. I only read it because I heard it on Jeapardy and I wanted to seems smart. LOL, Just kidding.The book was interesting, but with reading other books as well, I tended to jump around a lot. I usually don't do that, but it seemed like the book was really dry unless you were reading a dialog.
An edge of your seat thriller that keeps you turning the pages right up until the very end. A well done book by a great author.
Many years since I read it, but I remember I couldn't put it down and falling in love with Darby Shaw. I read the book before the film and Julia Roberts was brilliantly cast in the role.
Agggghhhh! Loved the movie so picked this up but whoa! Too many characters, too many POVs, multiple POVs in many scenes without a scene break .... all made it hard to follow. Still, a good story.
For my written review, please check out the link below:Debra's Book CafeDebs :-)
Such an exciting read. I've never watched the movie, but now I must see it.The story is a testament to the adage "small but incredible". The package may be small, but it could be a bomb inside. Who'd have thought that a brief written by one gorgeous law student would be the downfall of many powerful men?Grisham did a good job on playing out the whole story. Nothing was missed and cut; I didn't have unanswered questions. This is one of his best.
I watched this movie on the flight home from Oslo, I really liked it, and I was inspired to read the book. Surprisingly, I actually liked the movie more than the book, just because they didn't try to create a relationship between Gray and Darby, which just seemed super forced and cheesy in the book.
First time I read this was 20 years ago. Just reread it for a book club and it's as exciting and relevant today as it was then.
Gelezen jan. 1997
(He wrote the character of Darby Shaw with Julia Roberts in mind).
Did he write the character of Gray Grantham with Denzel Washington in mind?
She is assisted by a Washington Post writer by the name of Gray Grantham as they try to find sources to back up her brief and expose the bad guys before they can snuff her out.It's probably my favorite Grisham novel.
You also get more of a sense that Gray Grantham had it BAD for Darby.
I expected nothing but greatness from Grisham, and he didn't let me down (though that doesn't mean I don't have some small critiques).Though The Pelican Brief was filled with suspense, the beginning to mid section of the novel did feel a little slow, but as the chapters go the book started sticking to my hands.
I made the mistake to start reading the end at 11:30pm and didn't put the book down until it was finished, 2:30am)SPOILER ALERT:Though I understand the author and publishers decision to include a romantic side to the novel, it was hard at times to really find it conceivable.
One of the boring plots!! Formula of Grisham!! Extortions, scams, legal issues, gayism, some political flavor!! There are many unanswered questions in the plot!! There are some thrilling points during the plot, but not very gripping at some times which leaves the reader a puzzled feeling!!The story begins with the assassination of twophilosophically divergent Supreme CourtJustices. Liberal Justice Rosenberg is killedat his home, while the conservative JusticeJensen is killed inside a gay porn cinema. Thecircumstances surrounding their deaths, aswell as the deaths themselves, shock andconfuse a politically divided nation.
Excellent
