https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10567.Cell
Whereas many dystopian novels are almost comically blunt when expounding upon the dangers of collectivism, King's horrific plot and action give his metaphors a sort of subtlety that renders his subtext much more graceful and easier to stomach than the work of Ayn Rand.As the epigraphs indicate, it is also a meditation on the intrinsic violence of the human race.
Considering the subtext of the novel, however, the reader will find that the ending's abruptness actually informs the sense that Cell, besides being an excellent horror yarn, is a meticulously painted portrait of the horrors of global culture.
3.5 Stars.....Ok, I do believe I'm with the 'don't like the ending' readers on this one, but oh what a beginning!Clay is happy........he just sold his first graphic novel and can't wait to share the news with his estranged (but loved) wife and 12 year old son; and as it turns out, luckily, does not own a CELL phone.
While deciding to celebrate with an ice cream, all hell breaks loose on the streets of Boston, and afterward, crazies are everywhere, thousands of them, and travel by night (to get home to his son) turns out to be the only option.Overall, I did like this Stephen King sci-fi thriller, but it does have its lulls and did end a bit too abruptly for my taste.
Like all King novels that center around droves of mindless minions of evil, there is one badass leader zombie that seems to be running the show, and he’s the only character that I can really even recall from the book, how f@cking pitiful is that, especially since the only reason I can imagine the dude is because he’s such a archetypical figure that this is his only real intent.The story plods along after all cell phones receive some sort of ‘pulse’ which leads to the poor f@cker on the phone becoming a zombie.
It's fucking great on Friday, especially when beer's involved, but more of a pain in the ass on Saturday because you're still hungover from the night before and that goddamn grill is making you sweat pure ethanol.This is either my second or third read through of Cell.
Either way, the final product makes it seem as if King just got tired of writing this particular book and stopped.
Cell is still a three-star read and I'm sure it will remain that way for all my days.
Ωραίο βιβλίο με συνεχή δράση, όχι όμως από τα καλύτερά του.Το σίγουρο είναι πως με προβλημάτισε. Κλείνοντας το, αναρωτήθηκα.Αν όντως υπήρχε μια κοινωνία στην οποία κάθε κλήση από κινητό μετέτρεπε τον αποδέκτη σε ζόμπι, τότε τραγούδια όπως «Αναπάντητες κλήσεις παντού» της Παπαρίζου και «Όταν το τηλέφωνο χτυπήσει κανείς δε θα σου απαντήσει» της Κωνσταντοπούλου, θα κυκλοφορούσαν με τον τίτλο «Τα Απαγορευμένα»;
Sometimes books like this are good mindless fun and I do enjoy well written thrillers.
King does write well and is a natural storyteller; but there is something insidious at the heart of this.
Basically (and this is actually said in the book), when everything is stripped away from men and women; what is left - MURDER.
That is the problem with this book; that premise.
However, in my heart I believe we all have that spark that would rather care for others than destroy them.
That's the problem with this book.
Not one to usually dislike a King novel, I did go into this one without the highest of expectations and ended up being very pleasantly surprised.The story centers around a mass event that turns anyone who happens to be on their cell phone at the time into a zombie.
Some of the plot-line does have some similarity to The Stand, but the characters are fairly unique, the dialog is good, and the action keeps rolling along at a fairly brisk pace.
I really liked this novel.
I knew that I probably would, but it was a nice surprise that it was as good as it was.
All the people using their cell phones at the time of the "pulse" (as its known throughout the book) are immediately changed into what is essentially a zombie.
Call them walkers, call them phoners even, but "phone crazies" just bugged me to no end.In addition, the zombies only come out during the day and therefore leave the night to the survivors.Cell follows Clayton Riddell, a survivor of the pulse who happened to be in Boston at the time of the "pulse." He lives in (you guessed it) Maine (but he's not a writer, he's a comic artist, completely different), which is where his family is located at the time of the pulse and provides the impetus for Clay and his group of survivors to head north.I did enjoy this book, but to talk about why I didn't enjoy it enough to even reach the 4 star threshold, I'm gonna have to get into some spoilers.
Now living in a post-apocalyptic world and unable to use mobile phones for fear of becoming crazed maniacs, Clay and his group must navigate their way in an attempt to find out what has happened to his family.Okay, so, I actually really enjoyed this book.
I loved how it was the use of mobile phones that created these crazed "zombies", especially because if something like this did happen, your first thought would be to call your loved ones to check they're okay.
It felt like a unique portrayal of zombies.I thought the story moved at a great pace, especially at the beginning.
I love Stephen King but his stories always give me nightmares. This one is no different. On a beautiful autumn morning everyone on a cell phone is simultaneously hit with a message that scrambles their brains and turns them into zombies. From there the story gets progressively scarier and weirder. Really good story and I have another reason to not talk on a cell. (Texting only)
Momentalno počinje borba za preživljavanje - određen broj ljudi koji deluje kao da je izgubio razum bez problema napada svoje prijatelje, članove porodice pa i kućne ljubimce i hladnokrvno ih ubijaju na najbrutalnije načine.
Od ovog trenutka situacija se samo pogoršava, jer pored neznanja šta se desilo sa njihovim najmilijima, preživeli moraju da se nose sa daljom mutacijom telefonskih zombija.Od prve rečenice pa do poslednjih pedesetak stranica čitamo nešto stvarno sjajno - priča je dinamična od starta, uvlači nas momentalno i za divno čudo, imajući u vidu sklonost Kinga ka skribomaniji, priča zapravo jako brzo teče.
Another successful King re-read!
I read Cell when it first came out and I loved it.
I’ve wanted to do a reread since hearing the whispers about the movie production.
The guy has to be one of the most underrated actors ever.Then came the announcement of Samuel L.
I think the Pulse strips you down to your most primal self.
And that is what the Pulse exposed five days ago.The pace of the book does slow down but the story does not.
I think it was the perfect ending for this book.
I would give this one 31/2 stars. I've read better and worse by King. Not very scary, interesting idea and take on a kind of Zombie like Apocalypse. Great book to read while waiting for a plane. ;-)
that was one hell of a ride!!!Great apocalyptic thriller!
It has very chilling moments and intense too!
there are also some sad moments especially during the end!
That ending...
had me with an open mouth..
i think it leaves your imagination and curiosity on air, on what will happen later!I first saw many negative reviews about the book wich i honestly don't know why they exist..
the possitive aspects are:+Great story.
especially the beginning!+Good characters ( not all of them)+The Pulse the negatives are:- the pace at some places is slow but not nothing that will bother- the ending also was so-so.
Zombie sotto carica Inqualificabile romanzo che anela al ribaltamento di alcuni cliché horror ben radicati - le figure di riferimento sono Matheson e Romero -, ma che crolla in maniera ingiustificata a causa di una narrazione più fiacca del sottoscritto dopo il test di Cooper; non che l'accrocco di turbotrashate poi sia meglio: zombie che si ricaricano con la musica durante la notte; poteri telepatici a ridisegnare la realtà; vaghezza sull'impulso emanatosi dai cellulari; dialoghi scemi; personaggi inebetiti qui e là.Il finale da ulcera gastrica è la ciliegina sulla torta di un'opera che King poteva tranquillamente risparmiarsi.
It varies from alright to good, rarely achieving greatness, but scoring points for story, some pace, and King's usual habit of giving us the creeps.
But there was a little bit of new life breathed into an old trope, and it was as decent as the next good book about the undead.
It's a bit annoying and disheartening when someone like Stephen King starts becoming an imitator instead of an originator, or when it feels like big-time authors are getting lazy in light of their success (I have the same feeling about authors Peter Straub and Dean Koontz).I read a book like 'Cell' and I can't help wonder if maybe it is time we had a new 'King' of horror fiction.
De los mejores libros de King. Me recordo a The Stand, pero claro, esta es una version mas ligera.El apocalipsis golpea en forma de señal telefonica. Zombies vivos persiguen a los no conversos.Que les deparara a los cuerdos, quienes deben luchar para sobrevivir.Creyeron que iban a encontrar un spoiler? Pues no.Si quieren saber algo, lean el libro!(No lo juzguen severamente por las primeras paginas. Al parecer ni el propio autor sabia que camino iba a tomar, pero despues de un rato encuentra su brujula.)
4.5Once again Mr. King shows why he is a master.
I wouldn't rank this one among his best, but that is because he has done so many masterpieces that it is hard to compete.
But I still thought this was a great book.
King used some basic concepts; cell phone usage, zombies, and yet he presented a tale that was unique and creative.
This one was short compared to his average novels and because of his entertaining, free-flowing script, this was another one of those books that was a breeze to read.
An ordinary everyday item turning evil is both some that King has done well it the past, but also st
So of course, I wound up hunting down quite a few Stephen King books.I kept seeing this book on the shelf at the library, and the blurb intrigued me, so finally I checked it out and read it.I really, really liked it!
I am a fan of apocalypse/zombie themes, movies, whatevs, and this book is strong with both of those.
Boo.If you like Stephen King, read this book.
If you don't like Stephen King but like scary novels, read this book.
If you don't like Stephen King AND you don't like scary novels, then I'm not sure why you're looking at this page.
This was a classic Stephen King novel!
Roller coaster ride of thrills, twists, and turns!
I read the first half of the book in one night as I could not put it down.
Last night I finished the other half.
The book is about cell phones that get hit with a pulse phenomenon that practically turns the human race into zombies.
It was a different kind of zombie experience.
You have a rag-tag of survivors that are trying to get out of the city and they meet up with other survivors along the way.
Definitely an interesting read.
Giving it five stars.
Ain't nothing better than the end of the world, in my judgment, and The Stand is still one of my favorite King books.In this one, though, he takes a slightly different approach.
Hint: stinky.For Cell, King tells us right up front, before the first page of the story, that the world as we know it would be gone in two weeks.
And, of course, because Stephenson is a god, if a terribly difficult one to understand all the time....Of course, he can't escape comparisons to his original apocalypse book, The Stand, but he didn't reference it directly.
I reviewed it the first time at 4 stars and I'm deciding now, upon reading it again, to dock a star.Let's start with Clay, I like Clay as a protagonist but he's not one of King's more memorable main characters.
People screaming these crazy made up words (which I feel like I have seen before?
So this is why I'm docking the star from my original review.Anyhow, fun re-read, especially since I knew my friend Jo in Ireland and my friend Them here in the States were reading it along with me--made me feel connected to them through good ol' SK.
Un libro de King que la verdad casi no termino.
La primera parte es excelente, ágil, cautivante, cruda: lo cual es de esperarse de mi autor favorito y, pensé que este libro me iba a encantar porque es uno de mis géneros favoritos en el mundo: post apocalíptico.Pero, sinceramente, las últimas 200 hojas fueron confusas, difíciles de seguir, lentas y simplemente quería acabar el libro de una vez...No me conecté tanto como normalmente hago con King y sus personajes y la verdad tampoco me creía lo que me contaba.La resolución me pareció demasiado fácil y conveniente.
No sé, hasta ahora el único libro que no me ha gustado completamente Stephen King
From now on, I’m gonna switch to apocalyptic books instead of movies cause in movies you just get to watch stuff but in a book, specially by King you really get to feel the intensity.Throughout the entire book and it’s events, I was right there with Clay and the gang and I’ll tell you what, I was so involved in the happenings of the book that yes, I did hesitate to pick up my cell when it rang!It’s not a book it’s an experience and I really can’t have enough of it!You can also read this review at The Reading Bud
No me gustó este libro de King. La idea desde el primer momento me pareció ridícula, y no me equivoqué. Y no solo es ridícula, sino que tiene un final bastante insatisfactorio. Además, como dato de color: jamás me han gustado los zombis.
Vintage King, feels like "The Stand light version". OK book, recommended as a quick read and/or for the nostalgia...
When King wrote The Stand, it seemed to mark a moment in that writer's life where he was becoming overt in things religious.
The zombie like creatures that inhabit the novel are, through no fault of their own, zapped by the "surge," which pretty much wipes out anyone's human hard drive if they happened to own and use a cell phone.
His marriage is probably on the rocks, but he loves his son dearly, and when the deal goes down, he can only think of one thing: to get to him.
In King's universe, we now see the Manichean Good and Evil from the Stand being replaced by Cell's Love and Duty.
DNF-60%I have tried reading this book for no shit..
over a month, at 60%, I just can't anymore, life is too short and there are so many books out there for me to read and love.
Like I said the start was strong, but then it just got weird, slow and boring.
Zombies with supernatural powers?
Generally, I like mixed genres but zombies with supernatural powers aren't on my list of things to mix.Stephen King is always either a strong hit or a strong miss for me, and this book is definitely a big old miss.Recommended: Horror/ Zombie/Thriller/ Fiction
Esta última lectura de King era una de las más esperadas; llevaba no sé cuántos años queriendo leerlo y no la encontraba por ninguna parte, así que agradezco muchísimo a la editorial por habérmelo enviado.  En primer lugar, quiero puntualizar los puntos malos de este libro, que, aunque no son demasiados, le restaron mucho a mi experiencia y dejaron mis expectativas por los suelos. Pero no se alarmen, también tiene puntos muy positivos.  Lo primero que le faltó a este libro fue CONFLICTO. Aunque
En primer lugar, quiero puntualizar los puntos malos de este libro, que, aunque no son demasiados, le restaron mucho a mi experiencia y dejaron mis expectativas por los suelos.
Además, no hay esos giros que te hubiera gustado tener y, simplemente, esa idea tan brillante daba para muchísimo más.
No fue una historia que me disgustara en su totalidad, tuvo tantos puntos buenos como malos.
A pesar de esperar más, lo que tuvo de bueno fue suficiente para terminarla y por fin tener una opinión de este libro tan esperado.
