https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7063048-high-wages
Such a wonderful roller coaster. I continue to be delighted by Dorothy Whipple and her easy, accessible and fabulous way of writing and throwing together a story filled with characters that I really care about. Jane Carter's ascent from shop girl to shop owner is fascinating as well as heartbreaking. Along the way she meets lovesick Wilfred, melancholy Noel, drippy Maggie, kind Mrs Briggs and the snobbish Mr Chadwick. If Charles Dickens wrote a story like this I imagine his characterizations to be vastly similar.
A wonderful story.We see Jane develop and gain confidence and realise her dream.But who is Jane going to share her life with, Wilfred loves her and so does Noel.Then a change in circumstances changes everything.Love Dorothy Whipple.
I cannot fully express in words how I feel about this novel, and the real reason why I procrastinated so much writing a review is because I don’t want to part from it.
I have read it twice in the span of a month and all I can say is that I love it.
Everything, from the plot to the writing, is perfect.
I went there with a purpose--to buy all of the Dorothy Whipple books they had in stock.
My back hurt, my arm hurt, and I vowed to never again buy books on vacation.
All of that was made worth it when I read High Wages.
In that way she reminds me of Jane Austen, who was the master of this writing style.My only problem with the novel is that the end was not quite as satisfying as the beginning.
I loved reading about Jane's struggle to rise above her station.
I was reading this book on vacation-- not in a critical analysis kind of environment at all.
I have become a great fan of Dorothy Whipple - and have loved each of the novels re- published by Persephone that I have read.
The central character is Jane, an ambitious young girl, now alone in the world who arrives in Tidsbury in 1912 to begin work as an assistant in a draper's shop.
Jane is quite a feminist in own way, she dreams of independence, and doesn't baulk at casting an eye at a married man - which is something Dorothy Whipple heroines in later books would not have done.
A really enjoyable read, and I hope there will be more DW novels published by Persephone soon.
A solid 4.5 for me. I loved this quiet story of Jane's trials and tribulations, her hard work and determination leading to what the world would see as a small triumph but which in its time for a single woman was nearly revolutionary. Just the ticket for me right now. I am so happy Persephone is re-issuing these books, they are so full of everyday life.
Though Jane's life certainly goes uphill in the novel, it's not a glorified rags-to-riches story, and attention is paid to the less pleasant sides of being a working class girl.
The same goes for Jane's thoughts on all these women buying, buying, buying and being so utterly focused on appearance - why?
There's a lovely story here, but also subtle commentary on society at the time, and the roles given to women in this society.
A must-read for every smart woman who also loves dresses!
Author Jane Brocket wrote the Preface to this Persephone reissue, and it describes - rather brilliantly, I thought - what makes this book such a fascinating bit of social history.
It's the story of an ambitious 'shop girl' called Jane Carter.
There's an interesting examination of the class system in this book, and the many social changes that happened after World War I, but Jane's struggles (as both a woman and a business-woman) are always at the forefront of the storyline.
The ending was poignant; Whipple doesn't write simple ' happy ever after' stories.
Although I wanted better for Jane, I thought the ending was properly realistic - just when it threatened to veer off into melodrama.
Interestingly, I didn't enjoy this as much as some other Whipples - not sure why, except that I didn't really engage with the main character. However, there were still some wonderful lines which I wish I'd written down...
A modern reader could easily dismiss 'High Wages' as saccharine and shallow. I am sorry for this reader - they have missed the subtle feminism, triumphant self-definition, and realistic disappointment with which Whipple liberally embroiders her 'shop girl' story. In fact, one could argue that the 'shop girl' is simply a loom for the story's fabric of social change, woman's independence, class distinctions, and man's relationship to war and post-war roles. Written in 1930, Whipple's book is an enjoyable commentary on life before and after the Great War and a delightful love story. Well worth reading!
Loved it. And the best line in the book? "Tidsley was a-seethe"!
What I especially love about them is that they hit that perfect sweet spot of being smarter than "junk" fiction but lighter than "serious" fiction--which makes them an absolutely perfect way to pass a summer afternoon.If you go into their publishing headquarters/bookshop in London (and if you happen to be in London, I HIGHLY recommend that you treat yourself to a visit to Persephone Books), any one of the enthusiastic sales clerks will tell you that Dorothy Whipple, who wrote "High Wages," is Persephone Books' favorite author.
One of those rare reading experiences where between my reading and the years and distance to where the author originally put the words down, I just feel fundamentally understood. Amazing character writing and a really interesting plot around a young woman trying not to be exploited at work.
Published in 1930, the book opens in 1912 and spans about ten years.
Rather, the shop girl with the excellent work ethic, keen business sense, and energy and ideas makes good by opening her very own dress shop and being in charge of her own life at last.Full of period detail and a competent while relatable protagonist, the book explores many ideas of women and young people in the work place that are still incredibly relevant today.
For a couple of reasons in the last third of the book, this might be more of a 4.5.
My 2010 reading is off to a good start with this latest from Persephone, about a pre-WWI girl who goes to work in a shop. Whipple hands the reader work issues, women-at-work issues, class issues, love conflicts–all wrapped up in a story that, by the final third of the novel, I could not put down.Mrs. Briggs was one of my favorite characters and I loved seeing her in action in Blackpool. More than anything, I was impressed with Whipple's way of showing how, for better or worse, we humans are so adaptable to changing circumstances.
Quite an enjoyable read, in spite of the tiny font used for the book. Persephone books are meant for people with good eyesight, which is not, unfortunately, my case. I have downloaded another Dorothy Whipple book and will enjoy it on my kindle.
A delightful read, filled with the everyday life of the early 1900's. Not overly fond of the romance aspects, but reading about Jane and her work was wonderful.
Where it begins to weaken is when the narrative turns from that thread toward romance.
Whipple attempts to turn things around at the end but I found the resolution—and ending—unsatisfying.
Still the historical aspect of women's dress, and the move from having to purchase piece-goods to be sent to a private dressmaker toward ready-made clothing, makes this worth reading despite the inconsistency of the protagonist and the odd direction the plot takes.I'm thinking this may be a good indicator if one had to pick and choose which Dorothy Whipple books to purchase it might be prudent to look toward her later novels.
An acute portrait of a woman brilliant in business matters and dense when it comes to matters of the heart. Poor Jane Carter! Against the odds, she succeeds in creating her own very successful dress shop, only to be brought low by her disastrous love life. Subtly, gently, Dorothy Whipple reminds the reader how very hard it is to have it all.
I'm taking a week's staycation and binging on persephone books. Couldn't put this one down!
Here are a few of my thoughts about the book.High Wages had appealed to me for a long time, mainly because everything I'd read about it indicated it was the story of a young woman starting a business and making her way in the world.
However, High Wages is early Whipple, written at a time when she was developing her style and honing her writing skills, and I can imagine her later works are more well-rounded in a literary sense.High Wages was a page turner of a book and I can see why it appeals to the modern reader.
High Wages is one of three novels I recently purchased from Persephone Books', who reprints forgotten female authors of the early to mid 20th century.
Whipple introduces us to determined and ambitious Jane Carter alone in the world she gets a job at a draper's shop where she's badly paid and dreams of setting up for herself.
I loved the descriptions of the dress shop - I work in retail and someday I'd love to own my own shop so I relate to Jane on a spiritual level.
Though I wouldn't go to say it's at the same level as his work, aspects of Whipple's style were comparable.
Members of her own class find it hard to forgive her determination to succeed, and members of the middle class find her intelligence and skill threatening -- but instead of being a book about the downtrodden or the oppressed, it's instead the perfect fantasy of hard work paying off.
Even though Jane pays a price for her success, the book has an overall note of optimism that I've found in most (not all!) of Whipple's other work and that makes me enjoy her books without taking them as seriously as perhaps they deserve.
High Wages is about a young woman, Jane, who leaves home to work as a draper's assistant in a small northern town, eventually saving enough to set up her own shop. As with other Dorothy Whipple books I've read, it's an interesting, enjoyable, but undemanding read. I especially loved the detail about life in the shop, the petty meanness of the shop owner and his wife, and Jane's friendships with other women. I found the romantic elements a bit unconvincing and the ending felt a little rushed and unsatisfactory, but not enough to spoil my enjoyment of the book.
Jane Carter embarks on life as a shop assistant in a small town in Lancashire after the death of her father, around the time of the First World War. With guts, skill and intelligence she claws her way up to having her own business, making enemies as well as friends along the way. I found this a very enjoyable and involving story.
I thought this was going too fast and would betray my trust in the pacing and in Jane's growth in the last 20 pages - but nope! It remained as resolute and determined toward the future as it had throughout.
Maybe not the best Dorothy Whipple (for me, that's Someone at a Distance), but I loved the setting--a small-town dressmaking shop in England in the teens--and she pulls of that great trick, as ever, of creating characters I feel I would recognize if I met them on the street. How does she do it?
Jane, Jane, Jane. *sigh*The vibrant, fresh main character of HIGH WAGES is fully human, moral warts and all. Enough so, actually, that I found myself getting thoroughly disappointed in her and starting to slog through at about the two-thirds point. A shame, with Whipple's talented writing.
But not for Jane: our enterprising young protagonist has more to offer the world than just a pretty face and good taste in clothes.I don’t want to give too much away, so I’ll just say the action in High Wages spans about ten years, from pre-WW1 to the mid 1920s, involves fortunes made and lost, forbidden love, heartbreak, and a journey from adolescence to adulthood, all set in the context of parochial Lancashire and the fabric trade (which may seem unlikely settings, but finding engrossing drama in small town life and the middle-classes is what Whipple does best).
The Priory remains my favorite Dorothy Whipple novel so far and it's hard to imagine any work will pack the emotional punch of Someone at a Distance.
Whipple's writing is understated and it's easy to think this is a simple story of a shop girl working hard to make good.
In the first half of the novel, there is a scene where the mean Mrs. Chadwick sneaks down to the scullery when the underfed shop girls were absent to take slivers from their margarine allowances with a razor blade.
