https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/461627.Myth_ing_Persons
After the events of the last book Skeeve and Aazh as partners got themselves a very nice base of operations with just one tiny little problem: one of the doors in their dwelling (the kind they use in banks for safe vaults) led into an unknown and potentially deadly dimension.
For those unfamiliar with the series, the second companion is a very colorful character who uses her countless jewelry items she wears to perform magic.
Now that I reread the book I realized it contains some very subtle signs of the series decline down the road.
Skeeve and Aahz make a surprising pair and the whole group is even better!I found more feelings and emotions in this story.
“But you’re right about the costuming thing.
First I’m a blimp, and now I’m an army tent.”Also I was intrigued when I found Aahz (view spoiler)[was locked in a stone dragon’s mouth (hide spoiler)] and still he didn’t forget his sweet sarcastic self:For some obscure reason, I’m a little nervous these days, and every time this thing moves its tongue I age a few centuries.But it wasn’t a problem to Skeeve and his gang.
The action takes place in the dimension of Limbo, which is the dimension the mysterious door in Skeeve's new Bazaar home leads to.
Aahz runs off there to chase some potential clients who used the door as an escape route from the Bazaar law.
It was the usual mix of action, humor, and witty banter.
The new world was a good one.
Skeeve was as likable as ever and I enjoyed the hints of romance we got for him and his extra responsibilities now that he is a partner rather than apprentice to Aahz.
Audio Note: Noah Michael Levine continues to do a good job with this series.
In this book Skeeve and his friends visit Limbo to find some fugitives and rescue Aahz from prison.A pleasure insight into a dimension where vampires are at home and humans the monsters.
I really loved this installment in the series. The Limbo dimension proved to be great fun. Its inhabitants were very interesting and some quite likable. The action was fast-paced and exciting and I really didn't notice when exactly I'd reached the end! I want more! And some romance! Rating: 4.5 stars
Another story that is very light on Aahz which is a shame because I love his partnership/friendship with Skeeve. It is nice to see Skeeve grow on his own but the main supporting characters Guido and Massha just didn't hold my interest. The group dynamics were just a little bland.I did however, every much enjoy the new dimension of Limbo, and I hope we see more of Vic!Overall, a pretty average outing that was magic-lite.
Complete fluff, of the fun variety. My favorite part might be the little quotes at the beginning of each chapter.
Another fun book in the Myth Adventure series.
In their house/tent there is a door, which had previously not been mentioned when they first moved in, but it leads to an unknown dimension.
When fugitives from the bazaar flee through this portal the bazaar's chamber of commerce deem that these fugitives are the responsibility of Aahz and Skeeve.Aahz enters this unknown dimension to retrieve these fugitives.
Characters which had previously only been given a slight attention come more into their own in this book.Another fun filled adventure, nothing mentally taxing just pure escapism with plenty of humour.
Sadly the fifth entry in the MYTH Adventures series felt a little flat for me.
For starters I really did not like Luanna and Skeeve's little crush on her annoyed me.
I mean he has the amazing Tanda if he wants to develop a crush, so why is he falling for a small-time swindler who is using him?
When you add in the racism (in terms of werewolve and vampire-phobia) and basically Skeeve being the only hero I just lost my interest.
Luckily I know that there are better books after this, but still its a shame when a great series is ruined by a book that just feels a little forced.
Just as funny as they were 15 years ago.That's from my notes when I read this oneI read the first books when I was around 12 so I was probably 27 when I read this one.
I'm 45 now and my son read the entire series before he passed away in a car accident.
I was cleaning his room and putting books away when I realized I hadn't listed this series as "read" on Goodreads.
Thinking about finishing the series as a way of "communing" with his memory.Sorry if that makes you sad.
Read the book, it will cheer you up.
Myth-Ing Persons is more of a return to form, as far as I'm concerned, though Aahz is absent through a significant portion of the book. And Skeeve gets a love interest! Sort of. Phil Foglio’s art is excellent and it’s too bad there aren’t more panels. The humor continues to amuse and Asprin even pokes a little good natured fun at Elfquest creators, Richard and Wendy Pini. Excellent series!
Well it turned out the back door led to a dimension of vampires. And skeeve still hasn't learned any more majic.
I read most of the MYTH book 20 years a go. It's just fun to go back a visit them and still get them same ejoyment
Another fun one, and it introduced Vic the vampire--another favorite character of the series :-)
A fun jailbreak caper, and not much more.The strangest thing about this book is I had no recollection of having read this book before, but there’s no way that I never have. Maybe I didn’t own this back in the day in paperback – but I know I owned some that came afterwards. Maybe this felt writ on water because this is the first book in the series that didn’t provide any significant advancement for our team, character-wise, skill-wise or economically/geographically.
Skeeve is in a real pickle, indeed. With the disappearance of Aahz, this book really gets to focus on building up some of the other great characters we've grown to love. This adventure gives us a taste of yet another dimension, one that is full of surprises! There's some great, weird new characters introduced, and some that were more than annoying-by design! It has a different flow than the previous books as Aahz does not have such a big role, but it's not necessarily a bad thing. Don't worry, Skeeve still gets into trouble!
Probably the weakest one in the series thus far, but I believe the key point is about humility.However, some interesting views on those who are in leadership roles and whether or not those people suffer from nerves, self-doubt, and if they're just faking confidence.
entertaining but got realllllly sick of the paper thin female characters and constant body shaming jokes,
Strange vampires. Humility lies at the core of greatness.
Awesome!
Interesting stroll through a whole new dimension while also enjoying the growing cast of characters. I liked this one.
Another good and hilarious adventure for Skeeve, Oz and company. Oz is imprisoned for a crime in another dimension and must be rescued.
As with the other Myth books, fast moving and easy to read. Good fun.
There were some other fun things I either didn't remember or didn't realize when I was reading (Drahcir and Idnew, for example), but for the most part this was a re-read to remember all the great stuff from the story.One thing that's stuck with me as I've been reading these books is how Asprin portrays Massha.
She's strong, independent, and her own person, but how he portrays her as a fat woman in the story concerns me.
The person she is aside from her weight shines through, enough that Asprin avoids stereotypes, and she doesn't come across as simply the token fat woman.
When three thieves escape through a hidden door behind a tapestry in the waiting room, Aahz has to go after them, or risk the whole group being banned from Deva permanently.
It takes all of their brain, brawn, and skill to rescue Aahz, capture the three thieves, and return them to the Deva authorities.Notes for the reader: In this story, this author takes the emotions of his characters seriously.
The characters don’t just race through the story full of action without emotion.
While the first few times, it is a shock to the system to actually read of a character having an emotion, soon, it just becomes an enhancement to the story.
The fifth Myth Adventures book, this one finds Skeeve and company on a rescue mission to the dark dimension (the portal to which is the back door to their house) of vampires and werewolves to rescue Aahz.
This is possibly the most twee, cutesy entry yet, from Asprin doing amateur tricks like naming his werewolves after Richard and Wendi Pini by spelling their names backward to the villain who doesn’t actually want to hurt anyone to the plot point of Skeeve falling in “love” with a girl he’s barely met (and others taking this seriously).
In general, I find some of the sidekicks much more interesting than others and this particular mixture of ingredients that is being changed up from novel to novel - a notion that generally meets with my approval - makes for either a good or very good entry in the series.
Even though, I understand the deconstruction of classic fantasy tropes is a hallmark of the Myth-Adventure series, I was initially quite intrigued to have Skeeve and the gang meet Christopher-Lee-Esque villains of statue, but alas, It was not so.
It's instructive to compare this with the later volume in this series (Myth-ion Improbable).
The latter is awful.
Bitter, vindictive, cynical...
There is reflexive revulsion against bats, but that's not uncommon.Normally, I wouldn't tend to turn to an author's biography to explain such a sea-change in attitude.
In this case, however, it may be appropriate.
It's possible that Asprin's encounters with the IRS, and what seems to have been a pretty serious attack of writer's block contributed to souring his character.Anyway, this is still from the period when Asprin was at his most entertaining.
So, enjoy!
I love the Myth books.
They always make me laugh.
Reading about the adventures of Skeeve and Aahz always keep me entertained.
Myth-ing Persons moves a little slower that the previous four.
On the contrary, it is still a fun read.
If you have read the other four books, then you cannot pass this one up.
Like all of the other books, the story is not very long, and you can usually polish it off rather quickly.Overall, Myth-ing Persons is a great story that you will really enjoy.
I just love Skeeve and Aahz.I rated this book an 8 out of 10.

