https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1101679.Not_Wanted_On_The_Voyage
Not Wanted on the Voyage is a retelling of Noah's Ark. Except calling it a retelling wouldn't be fair to the author.
Findley takes the story about Noah's Ark that was spoon-fed to us when we were kids and he completely reinvents it.
At the heart of the novel, we have our two protagonists: kind-hearted, compassionate, Mrs. Noah Noyes, and Mottyl, her blind cat.
Findley takes the biblical world of Noah and mixes it in with fantasy.
Findley writes about men's destructive tendencies in pursuit of religion, power, science, etc.
Yaweh, an ancient, self-obsessed and venal god, takes human form and visits Noah.
He slaughters animals, terrorizes his wife and family, all in the pursuit of mindless worship of Yaweh.Lucifer, in the form of a woman/angel (Lucy), sides with the terrorized wife and animals, continuing to seek a better life than what Yaweh and his lackeys have to offer.
In Lucy’s words, the Ark’s voyage will “never, never end”.Overall, a wonderful portrayal of the dehumanizing effect of the mindless, juvenile, but widely accepted, worship of “gods” who are extremely aggressive, violent, and self-obsessed – traits we would consider sociopathic in human beings.
fantastic.
deliciously anachronistic and playful and yet deadly serious.
findley wrote biblical people as PEOPLE, and not as eons-removed, idealised prophet-gods, as they naturally come across in the bible.
he wrote angels as having fears and loves and moral scatteredness.
he wrote singing sheep and a drunken piano.
he wrote protagonists i didn't always like or agree with, and antagonists i could understand.
he wrote well and simply.
i'm looking forward to finding more of his books.
i thought this one was particularly brave - as brave as having faith in the truth of every word of the bible, i suppose you could say.
The kind of Catholic who went to church every Sunday and participated very much in church activities, never questioning, just doing.
It really opened my eyes, it really made me start to question and try to understand some things about my religion, that I had never done before.Needless to say, I stopped going to church.
I guess it is in my blood.This book is a retelling on the Genesis story about Noah and the ark.
It really changed my idea about the whole story.I used to think of it as a cartoon, everything happy happy happy on the ark going to the new world.
3,5
Like the computer glitch that was said to be capable of ending the world, the distaste never arrived.
The lovely feline on the cover was the initial reason I carried this book everywhere I went, but soon I was so engrossed in the story that I was reading it in every spare minute of my day.
I loved this book and I will continue to love it and that fabulous cover.
My understanding of the story of Noah is forever entangled in its utterly bleak vision of the world.
The ending will never leave me.
It's one thing to know, intellectually, that life as described and prescribed in the bible would have been unimaginably brutal, particularly for women, but quite another thing to know viscerally through the experience of narrative.
Likewise, you can know that petty, tyrannical god who bargains and pouts and punishes, spurting out arbitrary violence and horror, without knowing him as a character who comes to visit.
I also liked the ahistorical mix of everything -- languages, time periods, cultures, songs, mythical and real beasts.
I think this must be the mental world you need to live in if you are to take the kind of stories I was taught as a child seriously and literally.
I'm hesitant to call a book like this one of my favourites. I love a tale about a popular story that takes a different point of view or twist, and the narrative itself was constantly enthralling and a joy to read. My main beef with this book is that something violent happens to one of the female characters, possibly the most horrible thing I've ever read happening to someone, and I almost put the book down right there and didn't finish reading. I guess it's a good indication of how much I love this book that I decided to finish.
I always forget how fascinating and distressing this book is. I have read it several times and each time it pulls me quickly into the desperate tyrannical world of Dr. Noyes and his subjugated family. The narrative provided by both humans and animals is full of emotion and provokes a much deeper reaction than just another story about a boat and a rainbow.
And finally it is the story of Noah's wife, Mrs. Noyes, who desperately battles to save the magic and mystery of the old world, and of Mottyl, the blind cat who sees all."Weird book.
Between the sadistic Noah, the fallen angel posing as a woman (apparently no one particularly questions the fact that "she" is over 7 feet tall and has webbed hands and feet), the son whose skin is permanently dyed blue from being marinated by cannibals, and his wife who gets her virginity taken from her with the horn of a unicorn - still attached to the poor creature, I might add - it's pretty weird.
interesting.The book does, I suppose, raise some valid points, though.
I can't recommend this to my students (be warned) because of some fairly graphic images, but it is so well written and such an interesting idea of Biblical "fiction." Could warp your head, but only if you let it. Oddly similar to Julian Barnes History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters. Only this one came first.
Four stars only because I sobbed my eyes out reading this wonderful, but gut-wrenchingly sad book. Cat lovers especially be warned.
As beautiful and heartbreaking as when I first read it 30 years ago.
This is a clever, yet dark and disturbing retelling of the Noah and the Ark story. Living in biblical times were tough, especially for the women, add a bit of fanaticism, and a God complex to the mix, and you have an intense story.
I must presume that Timothy Findley smoked copious amounts of marijuana while writing Not Wanted on the Voyage.
The author seems to demand that we suspend our disbelief and take seriously the fantastical world he creates in retelling the story of Noah's Ark, as the novel does not really lend itself to be read as mere allegory.
I would not have finished this novel had it not been given to me as a gift by some dear Canadian friends, and certainly would not recommended it to anyone, even those of you who might come across this review while behind a thick haze of marijuana smoke.
When reading a book I tend to prefer the first 3/4 of the book over the climax and denouement.
The bulk of the book before the crisis builds the characters.
It tends to set a rhythm and establish grooves that the characters fit into.
To bring the book to a close these balances are disturbed.Its general premise is taken from Genesis and the story of the flood but little other than the water, animals and names are parallel with the Bible.
I'm not sure how to summarize the story without giving away the entire book or helping anyone decide whether to read it or not.
Such an enjoyable read, complete with its highs and lows, good guys and bad guys and even the deaths of some of its heroes and survival of some villains.Instead of a "review" and my thoughts I am going to scribe one of my favorite snippets here and let it read for itself: '"You may carry the one-heads (these are pre-flood demons), if that will make you feel any easier," said Lucy -- exchanging sacks with Mrs Noyes.
"And just how do you carry a sack of demons?" "Simple," said Lucy.
"You sling them over your back, just like a sack of anything else.
I discovered this text in a bookshop in Stratford Canada where I go yearly to attend the Stratford Shakespeare Festival.
Mr. Findley was a performer there, long ago, and his plays have been produced at the Festival.
Knowing nothing about his fiction I picked up the book because of its intriguing premise.
From an androgynous devil, to the explanation of the disappearance of unicorns, the text is an enjoyable exercise on the nature of patriarchy, deity worship, the virtues of curious and scientific thinking, and the dangers of power.
It is an excellent piece for a book club.
Knowledge of the Bible enhances the text, but is not needed to appreciate it.
Best of my BBRLM for June 08 was Not Wanted on the Voyage by Timothy Findlay (8). I discovered this Canadian writer in the English language bookshop in Paris on my first trip and have enjoyed everything he’s written so far. NWONTV is a fictionalised (and somewhat blasphemous) account of the Ark (as in Noah’s), showing all the problems and jealousies and discomforts and downright unChristian values that underpin the story. Yahweh is a cantankerous old fool, selfish, demanding and disagreeable. He has a hissy fit about his Edicts not being followed and so he sends the flood…For more, seehttp://anzlitlovers.wordpress.com/200...
More like 4.5 -- and could be a 5 on re-read.
A mesmerizing, wholly unpredictable re-telling of the Flood narrative.
Bleak and condemning on the issue of God and His dominion over our world, but, in all fairness, the Flood narrative, above all other narratives in the Bible, invites that assessment.
I've never had it explained or justified to me in a way that made sense or was acceptable -- or even understandable.
Findley takes its chilling premise and runs with it like an Olympian -- the book is fresh, inventive, shocking, horrific, magical, unsparing, and a whole host of other adjectives.
This book was amazing. Recommended by a friend who had read years ago after a conversation that we had had. It's the author's re-telling of what "really" happened on the Ark, and how the family that was chosen got there. My favorite character happens to be the Cat, Mottyl. Lucy comes in at a close second. Before you start the book, please ask yourself if you are open-minded enough to be ok with a re-telling of the biblical story. Because this isn't anything like you've ever read, be assured.
Enjoyable. I like stories that bring the bible into focus. It has been many years since I read this and doubt I can remember many of the details but I would recommend it to anyone. BTW I am an atheist but I like to learn what I can from all!
It was a struggled read, not for its subversions of the Genesis account (which were easy to be on board with) but for it's challenging narrative ethics.
I worry that the speaker crossed the line of indulging in Noah's horrifying actions for more than a critique.
Hard to sit with.
I like things that are hard to sit with, but some of this felt exploitative.
Obviously the exploitative nature of the characterizations of Yahweh and Noah are the critique, but again, speaking strictly in a literary sense.
I don't know, lots to consider over the next while.Always enjoyed reading Mrs Noyes and Mottyl.
I very rarely read "classics" because often I find the story boring and repetitious, the artistic message lacking in genuine meaning, and the culture around the book arrogant and officious.
Also her relationship with time, or time throughout the whole book.(view spoiler)[ for instance, she mentions that Shem would have been a favourite of Einstein and other contemporary figures.
(view spoiler)[ I really didn't like the rape scene.
I'd say that I couldn't believe a book about the end of the world could be this funny, but I've read Good Omens.
So good, and so creepy. A different take on the tale of Noah and the Ark. There is definitely more going on in this story than the simple "two by two" that I was taught as a child. I'll never think of the story the same way again. This book is seared into my brain.Fantastic read, really recommend it. One of my favourites.
Loved it. Found it clever and subversive.
The most believable story of Noah’s Ark that I have ever heard.
There's a magical moment at the heart of every Findley book, and I remember thinking the scene with Mrs. Noyes and the Faeries in the river was the best thing I'd ever read.
There's an incredible imagination at work here, as always with Findley, and it's definitely worth reading if you've ever wondered exactly HOW to load animals onto an ark, and what squabbles Noah and his family might have had with each other in such close quarters, over an extended period of time.
I read this book for a course I took in the fall of 2009.
There are only a few books that will haunt you for almost five years and this one will exactly do so.
It throws human behaviour at its worse in your face and shows you the depth of a person's character.
Some of the sections in the book can be quite horrific, others show the brutality of a person's actions to the point of making the reader sick and frustrated at the same time.
I generally love Findley's writing and storytelling style but what I recall of reading this book many years ago (long enough ago, in fact, that I don't remember clearly when) was how disoriented I felt at every twist and turn of the plot.
Findley's story and the characters that populate it are drawn with a rather rough-and-ready, here-come-the-dark-times kind of frankness (think of Mary Renault's pair of novels on Alexander the Great, *Fire from Heaven* and *The Persian Boy*) married to some rather wild and graphic flights of fantasy.
If you enjoy Findley's style as a rule, I'd recommend it for sure.
