https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5356.The_King_of_Torts
Clay finally gets a subpoena, forcing drug rehabilitation centers to hand over Watson's medical records, as well as those of another man accused of a similar, apparently motiveless murder.
«مکس» مامورِ لاپوشانیِ اشتباهاتِ مخاطره­ انگیزِ شرکتهایِ بزرگِ تجاری است، و حالا این وکیل جوان است که باید تصمیم بگیرد، که با «مکس» همکاری کند یا خیر ...؛ دفتر وکالت عمومی از شهرت شرکت­های حقوقی خصوصی بهره­ مند نیست، اما برخی از وکلای این دفتر با اخلاص کامل، همچنان متعهد به دفاع و حمایت از فقرا، مستمندان و محرومان اجتماع بودند.
و برخی نیز کار در این دفتر را همانند دوره ­ای آموزشی و پلی برای کار در شرکتهای خصوصی معتبر می­دیدند.
booooooooooooring and tedious. Very disappointed with this book from Grisham. While I learned a little about Tort Law, I also could have learned same from an internet site. The story was long, repetitive and boring. Showed the greed of tort lawyers without allowing the reader to really get to know any of the characters. I’m not sure why I even bothered finishing this one. Better hit me with something better next time, Grisham, or I just might stop reading you.
A nice page-turner dealing with the dangers of greed and the importance of self-control. I liked reading the character come from humble beginnings, build an empire, and let it come crashing down. A lot happening in-between.Very interesting learning a lot about tort law and the concept of mass tort litigation. Some lawyers in this country get involved in some pretty unscrupulous stuff.
Has anyone noticed that this guy can't write?
And that he hates women?There were scenes in this book so sexist that they literally took my breath away.
Clay Carter, the young lawyer with the heart of gold, is being stalked by two beautiful women who are absolute cartoon characters.
yet all the guy actually does is make a whole of money, then blow it, then get beat up.The happy ending literally made me want to throw up.
Given how phony the love story was it was like a big F.U. to everyone who actually read the book.
And this guy looks down on women?
Why do I keep doing this to myself?Every Grisham I read seems to get worse and worse and this was the worst --- unless of course you like to read about privately owned jets, earning millions of dollars, winning class action suits that bring in billions (yes, I'm not exaggerating), fast cars, and slimy lawyers. The relationship aspect is at the beginning and end of the book. My suggestion is to read the first three chapters and then skip to the end (unless you enjoy laundry lists of the playthings of the rich).
The author has blended his usual mix of courtroom drama, rich lawyers and powerful companies in this novel.
I actually preferred this novel to The Street Lawyer which I also read recently.
Sometimes it is better not to try and mix the spiritual with the secular unless you are going to be accurate and ensure you represent the right principles.This novel tells the story of Clay, a young lawyer struggling to make a name for himself at a little known firm.
But it all seems a little too good to be true.......The biblical principles in this novel are obvious.
As usual, this book it well written.
Grisham tells the story of the meteoric rise and subsequent fall of the newest, hottest lawyer in the DC area.
The problem that I found with this book is that I simply didn't care about any of the main characters in this book.
The main character's greed and foolishness is shocking, and by the end of the book I found that like him, I was shrugging at 9 million dollars.
But still, I found the characters uninteresting or distasteful.
It was more out of a sense of duty that I managed to finished this book.
I finished it with a half-hearted "eh!"
I read it for a business law class I'm taking and it is great!Clay Carter is working for Washington D.C.'s Public Defense Office when he is given a murder case.
He begins to catch public attention, winning cases with large amounts of clients and large amounts of attorneys--mass tort law.
He tries not to get caught up with the game of sueing, but eventually it comes back to bit him in the butt.Tort law is especially fascinating and this book does a great job at giving a human story for the lawyers who are behind it.
Seriously...did Grishham fall asleep at the end? No spoilers, but it seems like for the last few chapters he was in a big rush to finish the book and just made everything end real abruptly. Especially considering that the rest of the book was quite long and drawn out....This was the first book by Grisham that I've read thus far, and I'm not sure that I am jumping in to read more... Maybe I should have started with a more popular...better...book.
He is not a master storyteller but he writes enjoyable stuff.But after reading The Street Lawyer and now the King of Torts, I had a hard time giving another of his books much thought.
It started as a criminal investigation, and I thought it will turn into a revealing story about a secret and devastating shady business that a big company is involved in and I'll get to read some great legal thriller, but somehow it turned into a kind of success story for the protagonist.
Then I told myself, hey, its going to be one of those stories where he'll get inside the company and then start digging when his conscious will hit him hard.
As Carter starts to look I not the facts of the killing he is approached by Max Pace.
Max has a deal for him..he will make more money than he has ever dreamed of but must leave the public defenders office and is representing a mysterious drug company.
Quickly Carter starts his own law firm and meets Patton French and is thrown into the world of mass tort cases and about making more mo ey than ever dreamed of.
The book was good...I liked reading about Carter and how he was learning the tort system and his thoughts on it.
Interesting enough subject matter. I will say I was never bored but I'll also say I was never surprised.
Representing all these families early in a class-action lawsuit a.k.a. a mass tort, would stop cold the chance the lawsuits going to a courtroom trial and avoiding potential sky-high punitive penalties against the influencing organization responsible.
The strategies on snagging and holding onto as many clients as possible in a national pharmaceutical mass-tort is laid out, including the massive shock-and-awe advertising with fear-hyped t.v. commercials, the jockeying among regional tort lawyers to get as many clients as possible, the strong-armed negotiated portions of winning case money for the lawyers, the tort operations committee steering, and the cash-flow and human resources.
This book had my interest for about 100 pages. What is attractive about obscene amounts of money? The characters are flat and Grisham portrays the women as objects.
I almost always enjoy a good John Grisham book and love to read them on an airplane as they make the time go by so fast. This was one of my favorites as it gives an inside look at the huge class-action lawsuits and how they can affect the lives of those involved, especially in the legal field. There is so much money to be made, it leads to unscrupulous behavior and should be a warning to us all. It was informative as well as entertaining and that rates five stars from me.
His efforts to land a third big score suddenly fail, then his second case starts to backfire, and by the end of the book, which just goes away with little fanfare, he's declaring bankruptcy and going away to hide.Grisham does manage to generate a little suspense with the two or three big middle cases, but when the last big one fails, he doesn't even share with us readers a shard of logic to explain it, leaving us not merely feeling hollow, but feeling cheated by all the time we spent reading this junque.
A big pharmaceutical company creates a drug that cures addiction, it is 90% effective and only 2 percent of the people in the study relapse, and go back to life on the street. Sounds great right? Here's the problem, in the remaining 8% it creates an overwhelming, and apparently irresistible desire to kill. This seemed like an implausible plot, even for a John Grisham book.
The drug company was now asking Clay to pay the victims' families (and Clay) a substantial sum of money to keep the story quiet.
Grisham always does a great job of weaving together several stories and making his characters very life-like.
It's impossible not to root for Clay, even though we see his personality shift throughout the story.
Although Grisham doesn't always wrap things up neat & tidy (the way the reader might want them), I liked the way he ended this book-- a penniless guy who lived a moment in the spotlight and still gets the girl.
I kept reading, and I'm pretty disappointed with the novel.The novel follows a man named Clay Carter - a lawyer working for the Office of the Public Defender.
He was a guy who had a fortune handed to him, blew it all on stupid shit, made stupid decisions, and basically screwed himself, and yet still comes out unscathed.
Through out the novel, I kept finding myself wanting to smack Clay for the stupid things he does.
I would've liked the novel more if it had focussed more on Tequila rather than a greedy man blowing money left and right.
I don't think I'll ever read Grisham again, his stories are just too stupid.
The protagonist inexplicably acted like an ass despite professing to being a moral person, acted wildly irrationally, made unbelievable errors in judgement concerning the wasting of money and lack of caution.
Most problematic though were what felt like serious inconsistencies in his behaviour, it just never felt like he had a real personality.
It wasn't like a good person was being corrupted by money, rather it felt like the author didn't know who the character was, the consequence of which was me often thinking 'why the fuck would a real person do that?'.
Tas bija kā adrenalīna pilns piedzīvojums- ieskats vienas nenobriedušas personības straujā pārmaiņu procesā. Gada laikā kļūt par multimiljonāru, apdedzināties un pieaugt. Dzīves svarīgākā mācība, kas atstāj neizdzēšamas pēdas uz visu atlikušo mūžu.Sāku saskatīt līdzības Grišama grāmatās. Pārspīlēti ambiciozi juristi tiek izsūtīti trimdā, cietumā vai nabadzībā.
The rise and fall of a public defense attorney turned hotshot lawyer, plus fun stuff about mass tort litigation for people like myself who know nothing about that world. An entertaining, fast-paced read.
Le pondría menos nota. Debería. Quizá lo haga. Tal vez no se lo merezca, pero mi nivel de frustración actual me dice que le ponga dos estrellas. *aleja la mano del pad de la notebook* Edit: le puse dos estrellas nomás. Spoilers!! Porque estoy enojada como para marcarlos. La cuestión, claramente acabo de leer un libro de FANTASÍA porque JAMÁS le pasaría esto a un abogado tan corriente como a Clay. Me reía de los escandalosos números que manejaba este hombre. Claro, nadie quiere leer sobre un defe
Realmente no sé cómo Grisham logró escribir casi 400 páginas de algo que es muy chato, con tan poca profundidad tanto en la historia como en sus personajes.
Abandona el caso interesante por la rutina de pleitos más aburrida de la historia.
Y los abogados discuten y discuten sobre casos y números y gente que uno nunca llega a conocer, y Clay solo exaspera y exaspera, y se pelea con la novia, y empieza a ganar mucha plata, millones, billones de dólares, y de repente tiene trajes nuevos, jets nuevos, viaja constantemente a hoteles lujosos, restaurantes de cinco estrellas, y sí, se le sube a la cabeza.
Clay, the main character, is a public defender and he's assigned a murder case that he's certain to lose.
The author brings the reader into the scenes and experiences during this part of the book.Once the book gets going, though, the characters are superficial to the point of being stereotypes and tropes, and the book becomes a lesson on how torts and class action suits work.
The author superficially sketches out Clay's relationship with his father and his ex-girlfriend.
A reader who was already familiar with torts and class action suits, or a reader who wasn't interested in learning some of the basics might get pretty bored.
This book wasn't completely terrible, which is impressive considering the fact that the main character was a remarkably lively turd. I might've given it another star had Grisham not (view spoiler)[tacked on a feel good ending where his bigoted, greedy, arrogant horror show of entitled human detritus won the heart of the girl of his dreams and a fat stack of cash for ignoring the wrongful imprisonment of seven men of color, robbing countless victims of big pharma and bankrupting the economy of a small southern city. (hide spoiler)]
Un ejemplo perfecto de su cambio de mentalidad es su idea de los jet privados,era un cambio tan sutil y constante que aunque no me agradara el protagonista estaba sumergida completamente en su mente.Y luego la segunda mitad del libro vino y lo arruinó todo, no puedo siquiera pensar en como el autor pudo tirar por la borda lo que había escrito hasta ahora,es como si se hubiese aburrido de escribir el libro y quisiera terminarlo lo más rápido posible, sin preocuparse por los personajes,la trama ni nada.Básicamente este libro no tiene final,todo el crecimiento del personaje se detiene y de repente volvemos al principio del libro sin ninguna clase de explicación.
The King of Torts, read by Dennis Boutsikaris, is incredible fun.
The plot moves very fast, it has a great rhythm, and you learn about the world of class action torts in the process.While Sycamore is more about various types of lawyers, but at its core it focuses on the good that a great lawyer can do, King of Torts focuses on the bad that a greedy lawyer can do.
And the great protagonist, as always with Grisham, is money: Sycamore is about money and its complex influence on many lives, Torts is about money and the destructive power of greed.
Plot: Clay Carter is in a lowpaid but moral job, until the opportunity arrives for riches and stardom.
It’s an interesting insight into what could be a stereotypical view of how money affects you.Style Of Writing: Very interesting, you know from the start that he’s going to be knocked down a peg or two but it manages to keep interest all the way.Overall Opinion: Good, probably not the best, but up to the usual Grisham standard.Recommended If: You want to see what it’s like to think a billion dollars is nothing.
I thought this book and "Street Lawyer" focused on a few similar scenarios: a washed up lawyer working for the poor; loser in the relationship part; greed in the legal world; and the resentment toward corporate lawyers.
It seemed to me that the author's political view was all over Street Lawyer and for that, I didn't care for the book.
However, this book actually made the Street Lawyer story look better in my opinion.
What about Paul Watson?) To end this book entitled "The King of Torts" with a story of him getting away with his reunited girlfriend didn't satisfy me at all.
As a lover of legal thrillers, I try to read all of John Crisham's books.
This book was really interesting and such a page turner from the very beginning: there is not any moment of boredom for readers, nor anything unconvincing!
The book introduced me to a new (and probably very miniscule (in terms of size) world) of mass tort lawyers and pharmaceutical industry: it is incredible It was a nice escape from my daily routine, and something to look forward to at the end of a long day.
I would recommend it highly if you like feasible mystery and adventure but in a real world.
