https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/31186.Patience_Sarah
(It isn't.) It isn't that the book is real, and kind, and loving, a rarity in any day (and it's all of the above).It's rather that this book told a fictional history of two gay women long before it was fashionable to do so - and instead of following the path most books of that ilk trod (eg at least one if not both has to die by the end, no one can be happy, it can't be anything but unnatural), the book walks us through the stages of a relationship between two women with grace and humor, and no one dies in the end.
"Patience and Sarah" has the distinction of being the only lesbian book I read in my early 20s that felt positive throughout.
Sarah has been groomed as a boy in a family full of daughters so she can help her father on the farm and Patience is a spinster sister, living in her own lodging under her brother's eye.
The book is actually based on a real lesbian couple so that adds extra authenticity.Jean Smart and Janis Ian narrate the book, trading off when the perspective changes.
Jean Smart is Patience and Janis Ian is Sarah.
I didn't know this was self-published until I'd finished it, and it made me love the book all the more.
I find that most of the LBGT novels I pick up are very coy about actual sex, or tremendously over written but this book is lovely because it has the starkness of prose that I love, as well as an innocence of language that doesn't hide anything, but which perfectly suits the characters.That's an unbearably hipsterish way of saying that the language is straightforward, and the emotions are clear.My favorite character was Sarah, as I found Patience a little conniving and catlike sometimes.
It's the lesbian story I've been longing for -- where "The Well of Loneliness" was too chaste and too painful and "The Price of Salt" too prickly and too sad, "Patience and Sarah" heals and delights.
This book reminds me of the important of love -- of the determination of lesbian women everywhere, and how proud I am of the relationships we have had with one another, despite the adversity we face.
I did not read this book, though I knew of it, for a long time, because I was a story about lesbians set in 1810 would depress me.
They fall in love and strive to live together despite not knowing any women like themselves and the distain of the puritanical society of that time.I read the audio version with Jean Smart as Patience and Janis Ian as Sarah.
I can't be sure, but I don't think I would have enjoyed this book as much, if I read it rather than listened to it.
The book sections alternates POVs of Patience & Sarah.
Both were excellent, but Ian as Sarah really stood out to me.
Ian portrays Sarah, though uneducated and unsophisticated as having dignity, courage, loyalty, and intelligence.
Highly recommend the Smart & Ian audio version.
In this short novel Miller paints a large portrait on a relatively small canvas and with Patience and Sarah she has created two indelible characters.
Here is the heroic depiction of a love that refuses to remain unrequited or diminished by the provincial standards of a morally pious society.Set in Connecticut circa 1816, we are introduced to Patience, a spinster (by choice) in her late twenties; she is a woman of means.
One day Sarah delivers a load of firewood to the property Patience shares with her brother Edward and his wife Martha.
Besides the titular characters, Miller has thoroughly fleshed out the conflicted Edward, bitter Martha, and Sarah’s brutally moral father.
I remember being really sad at the end when I saw a picture of her and her husband and realised that the woman I'd fallen in love with was not beautiful like Melissa Gilbert.
It was exactly what I wanted to be reading then.This is a story of two women in the very early 19th century who fall in love and want to make their home together.
One thing that I liked about the book was that it wasn't a fairy tale romance but they lied to each other and felt guilty and angry and made mistakes because they didn't know what the other one wanted or were too insecure to believe things would work.
This fable reaches infinitely higher in terms of great love stories.Patience and Sarah possess stunning and determined love that refuses to be denied.
There are five books that complete the story and both Sarah and Patience alternate the telling of the story.
The feeling is mutual because Sarah decides then and there that she wants Patience and nothing will stop her.Out of all of Sarah’s sisters, she is closest to Rachel.
Sam heads back to Connecticut.Patience missed Sarah more than she thought was possible.
One of them must be sensible, right?Patience convinces Sarah to find her wild abandon once again and they begin their voyage to New York.
lesbians and queer women especially, I think, dream of going back to the land to this day.
having said that, I think the fantasy of untouched land, of freedom to build your own life, of treating rural land in a colony as if it's as untouched by other people as mars -- this specifically should be challenged.
the novel is based on the life of mary ann wilson and miss brundage who lived on a farm in early 19th century greene county, new york state -- mahican land.
my heart aches, of course, for real life 19th century lesbians escaping Puritan families.
This is one of the sweetest books I have ever had the pleasure of reading. I haven't read too much queer fiction, not until this actually, but this is for sure a gem. I am so charmed by their love, so warmed by Sarah's spirit and Patience's wit. I am so overjoyed that two centuries ago, two women fell in love in rural nineteenth century Connecticut and built a life together against all the odds. What a blessing this book was.
This was the first lesbian book I ever read, in 1988, aged 18, in the summer holidays after leaving school. I was in love with my teacher and heart-broken, so reading my first lesbian book made quite an impression. It was beautiful.
Such a sincere story, with a very strong first half, I thought, in particular. Nicely written, and the switch between the two viewpoints let in interesting ironies.
This book was a bit frustrating because it starts out really good, but kind of peters out as it gets near the end.
Patience and Sarah are two women that live in the early 1800s.
Toward the end, however, the main plot is pretty much resolved and yet we kind of just hang out and watch people go about their lives.
If the book had ended a bit sooner-or if the main characters had a few more interesting things to do in the last quarter of the novel-then it would have been a much tighter narrative.
And just before Tipping the Velvet or Fingersmith; apparently Sarah Waters was inspired by this book, but her historical lesbian fiction (which queers English Victoriana just as this book queers straight nationalist American narratives about the pioneering life) plays around a lot more with discourses about same-sex love from the historical periods she looks at; Waters' characters tend to understand themselves and their desires through things like vaudeville traditions of cross-dressing and pornography, wheras Patience and Sarah just recognize what they want and don't bother about what that might mean about who they are or how they fit into their society--which feels slightly unrealistic.
I found this book when I was in the sixth grade. It had been accidentally shelved on the juvenile section. I read it and loved it, even though it would be another seven years before I understood that the two women were lovers, and didn't just bunk together because they only had one bed. As a bookworm of a sixth grader in a very conservative little world, it gave me a half-understood hope that widowhood wasn't the only family configuration for me.
I've read this many times, still love it! It's an all time favorite of mine.
One of the first "gay" books I ever read ... loved it! (my version has a different cover, tho)

I'm not sure when I read this, but it was a looong time ago. Maybe time for a reread.
Patience and Sarah was first self-published by the author in 1969.
It’s a historical novel based on the life of Mary Ann Willson, a painter who lived with her companion Miss Brundage in a log cabin on a few acres of farm land in the early 19th century in Greene County, New York.Patience and Sarah alternates between the first person narrations of the two women.
Her voice is perfectly aligned with Sarah’s naïve and rough around the edges personality.Patience and Sarah is a wonderful love story.
I liked that this novel had a generally positive atmosphere about it, although the women definitely faced obstacles.
Told in quite melodramatic and sappy dialogues, hesitations and sultry encounters -- the plot (with all its simplicity, instantaneity, dull farming details) and its characters (with vexing immaturity, folly and unrealistic voices at some points) may not leave a strong impression.
The fascinating qualities of the book was its humor, wit and the way Patience and Sarah handled each other and men throughout whilst tied not only by their gender but also their orientation in their era.
Admittedly, at some parts, I lost my patience with the characters' actions.
For this, one cannot deny the importance of this book and its being a classic under the lesbian fiction genre.
not at all depressing like other historical lesbian romance novels I've read.
Two women dream of escaping their Puritan community to homestead together out west.
This is vibrant and joyful; the language is lovely, with flexible, ardent metaphors and transparent pathos.
If some later events are more mundane and focus on (mis)communication, they only serve to explore the relationship's maturation and interactions with the public sphere.
The historical setting is evocative, the romance complicated and sincere; it doesn't even feel self-published except that's about lesbian women.
It's difficult to express my feelings about this book without sounding hyperbolic, but Patience & Sarah is emotive, invaluable, and quietly transcendent; and I loved it in every word.
other reviewers here have mentioned that it isn’t as if patience & sarah is some literary masterpiece; the writing is average, but very evocative of images and the time period in which the book takes place, and yet the heart of it is rather the relationship between our two lead characters and how they navigate the world they live in.
it’s rather love at first sight, and although usually it’s obnoxious to read about such a thing, i found sarah and patience’s romance to be sweet and surprisingly believable, despite the rate at which it moves.
Unhappy endings wouldn't be uncommon in a historical setting like Puritan New England.But in Patience & Sarah, the characters are allowed to be fun.
They meet within the first few pages and their connection is palpable, but unfortunately, they spend the greater chunk of the novel apart, with Patience squirming away at home as a schoolteacher and Sarah travelling to the city as a man, nursing a broken heart and missing a broken home.While this is definitely a romance novel, Miller isn't afraid to dig deep into these characters.
Patience and Sarah feel like a real couple, a real romantic pairing who are completely devoted to one another, and by the end of the book, their happiness felt amazingly deserved.This is one of the best lesbian romances I've ever read.
This book was originally titled "A Place For Us" and written in 1969 and self published by the author, who was unable to find an publisher willing to take the book due to the content.The book tells the story of two women who fall in love in 1816 Connecticut, who plan to move away to live together on a farm in another state or territory.
Eventually Routsong found a publisher, who changed the title to "Patience and Sarah." It is a classic of lesbian literature, and also a wonderful example of American writing.
Outstanding narrative, dripping with beauty. This book will move you beyond words, it's an incredible love story in a time when women didn't love other women. Only, they did. Not only is it a great book, narrators Janis Ian and Jean Smart bring it alive with their narration as each of the women. This audiobook has stayed with me many weeks after I finished it. Listen to it. It'll touch you & change you.
One of the best lesbian books written. A classic. The strength, courage and honesty of the two women who risk everything, and lose everything, to gain the freedom to be who they are and love who they will. When it seems as though gay/lesbian rights granted are currently crawling along at snail's pace, read this, about what reality was for lesbian women, and women, period, long ago.
I LOVED THIS BOOK. a hidden gem of a novel. it's a good feeling when you finish a book and immediately want to go back to the beginning and start again. the characters felt real and kind and maybe it wasn't as drama-filled as it could've been but i'm not going to fault the author for that. it's rare to find an earlier gay book with an actual happy ending!
one of the first lesbian novels i read - my cover is missing its cover which is a combo of deep love for the story and having wedged it between the ceiling and a cat tree in an old punk house which feels very lesbian appropriate. joking aside - an important book in lesbian historical fiction
