https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/447724.The_Building_Of_Jalna
Ovo je divan serijal od 16 naslova kanadske autorke koja se već smatra klasikom u Kanadi... Čitala sam je u tinejdžerskom uzrastu i bilo mi je veoma zabavno... Prosto nisam mogla da dočekam da u British Council-u vrate s čitanja sledeći nastavak... Nažalost, nikada nije prevedena na srpski ili hrvatski...
I'll bet every public librarian of my era remembers the shelf full of books in the Jalna series.
(They're still available in my library system; not at my library but scattered throughout with a title here and there.) That's what made us curious to read this first title chronologically (but published 20+ years into the series).
It's a delightful read for anyone who enjoys old-fashioned family sagas.
They settle in Ontario, British Canada then certainly, and build the house that is the center of action for the series.
Heartwarming, satisfying, easy reading.
The heroine reminded me of Scarlet O'Hara, beautiful, forceful, spirited and spoiled. While I enjoyed reading this novel I found the writing a bit effusive; the author wrote with such emotionally bold strokes that it tended to make everything that happened seem to be of great import when in the actual flow of the story it wasn't. Not sure if I'll continue to seek out more books in this series or not.
I was pleasantly surprised by this three quarters of a century old book. It gave an entirely new perspective of the immigrant story! The Whiteoaks family immigrates with their Chippendale furniture and Asian carpets. They build a mansion on a hill with well paid labor. But the pleasure in the book is the humor. I chuckled! I don't remember the last time I chuckled. Adeline Whiteoaks would probably drive me nuts in real life, but she is a pleasure to read about. All of the characters were surprisingly real. I too hated Daisy! Who wouldn't like Adeline better?
L'auteur pensait n'écrire qu'un seul tome de cette saga qui en compte finalement ...
Et je comprends les lecteurs qui ont réclamé la suite, car à la fin de ce tome-ci, on reste un peu sur sa faim.C'est bien écrit, prenant.
On s'attache à Adeline et aux autres personnages.
On tremble pour eux, on se réjouit, ...
Et tout au long de la construction de leur maison, Adeline répète comme elle imagine déjà sa descendance, les bonheurs et malheurs qui arriveront ici ....
Pour finalement terminer le roman sur la fin de la construction de la maison !
On veut la suite !
I really enjoyed going back to Jalna.
I read this serie when I was still quite young, about 11 years old, because two of my eldest sisters were reading it at the time.
But, at the time, I didn't understand everything about the Whiteoaks' life in Canada or about the relationships between the main characters.
Now that I'm older, I can appreciate the real value of this story.What I will remember of it is the freedom that you can feel from page to page: the freedom of this new world, still quite savage and untamed, and the freedom of Adeline, who doesn't want to submit to social standards.
This was the first family-saga i ever read. As a teenager i loved and devoured the books. Now I am rediscovering them and still find them very enchanting, but maybe that is my nostalgic point of view? For everybody expecting action, these books are not for you, as a matter of fact i would not even rank the series among top class novels, however if you are looking for good, solid, light fun entertainment, that does not lose it's charme over the years, you will not be disappointed
An unexpected pleasure in this first of a 16 volume series. Follows Philip and Adeline from 1850s India to England to Ireland to Quebec to the wilds of Ontario. While there are hardships, plenty of money makes them all manageable. Love the little glimpses of what's in store for future generations. Interesting characters abound, and, while this by no means a comedy, there are some wonderful LOL moments.
Very old school way of writing. Very innocent period. I am so glad I finally got to start on this range of sixteen books. Quite interesting. Don't know whether the way the author wrote it fascinated me more than the books. They are seques but not written in any particular order. The auther, Mazo De La Roche had this story in her mind and wrote it over a period of thirty years. She started of with the fourth book and just wrote and added on as she felt. Amazing way of writing.
Realistically if I were truly rating this book it might get a 3. I certainly don't want to put anyone off if they are skimming for stars! It's melodramatic and dated in many ways. But I've added to it because if I'd read it as a young teen I would have LOVED IT! It would've been right up my alley!! Multi generational with a feisty Irish lass. What more could a young girl ask!! I'll certainly be passing it on to my granddaughter when the time comes. Thanks Betsey for loaning it to me.
i am returning to my book roots this was the first series of adult books that I read, I used to go toParramatta Library every week on the bus to get the next one. I was given 6 of the books for presents over the years. I have read the complete series only once but the 6 books I have read many times over.Really enjoying reading the 16 books from my Kindle.
This was the first family saga I ever read. It's a pretty old series originally published in the fifties or sixties. My mother read it as a young woman and suggested it to me. The books follow the Whiteoak family as they emigrate from Scotland to America.
Quite enjoyable story of a young British couple emigrating to Canada in the mid 1800s.
For that reason, anyone who has read JALNA and WHITEOAKS should enjoy this "flashback" story.
Here, at a later publication date, she takes us back in time to the 1850's to show how the family homestead "Jalna" was first built and how Grandmother Adeline looked and behaved as a young woman.
Most ironic, too, for her husband Philip in chapter one gazes at her with rapt desire, thinking "She can never grow old!"Adeline is spoiled and arrogant, very much like her husband in nature.
(He's secretly in love with Adeline too, but nothing improper ever happens.) There's old Fiddler Jock, drunkard but also inspired musician, who finds shelter on the Whiteoak property.
This is the first in the series in chronology of characters and story, but not the first published.
It's a welcome respite from issue and message novels in which the story is concocted to make some political or moral point.
The characters are vivid and quirky, far from idealized, and the action is never dramatic.
It is what my grandmother would have called a "harmless" book, and it might be a nice novel for a young adolescent, so long as she/he is willing to be interested in grown-up matters (children, though present, are far from the center of the book).
Possibly my favorite Jalna book!
Even though it was written as a prequel (Jalna was the first book actually written) it is chronologically the first book in the series.
I traces the travels of a young Captain Philip Whiteoak and his wife Adeline from their station in India, to England, Ireland, Quebec and finally Ontario where they build their house - Jalna.We see Adeline's stubborness in ensuring that she give birth to her second son Ernest in the half completed house, her rage at a young girl making up to her husbad, and her generousity in helping James Wilmott (who is secretly in love with her) escape his troubles past.
Jalna is one of those series that I have been meaning to read for years.
During that time I have managed to collect all 16 novels, so I figured now would be the good time to start reading them.
I chose to read them in chronological order rather than the publication order, because it seemed like the most logical thing to do.This first novel (or prequel?) is more a collection of anecdotes than a story with one cohesive plotline.
While this is not by any means my new favourite book, it was entertaining enough and I am looking forward to reading the rest of the series.
I ve read the 16 books of jalna at least 5 or 6 times.
There are my favourite books.
Following the story of a family over a century, getting attached to the characters and seeing them grow old is really something amazing.
My favourite characters are adeline and renny.
I often refer to the family tree as there are so many people in the books but they each have their own personality and you can’t help but get attached to at least one of them.
Jalna represents a house that stands against time with its values.
The Jalna books are leftover from my early teenage years.
I wondered if I'd like them now that I'm a somewhat cynical but at any rate non-romantic grown-up.
Surprise, surprise: I was even tempted to give it five stars.
However, The Building of Jalna is really just an ordinary novel, but written, I think, when more care was expanded on character development and general description, on solid writing, even on grammar and construction and propriety.
I find all that too much of a rarity in current novels, and older pop fiction as well.I plan to read through the entire series eventually.
The serie of the Jalna books (10 volumes or more?) remains for many French people a very beloved memory of childhood reading (although they were originally published in English, they seem to have been more popular in France than in the US).
This epic saga of a Canadian family is like a house you used to go as a kid and are fond of, more because of nostalgic reasons than because the house is an architectural masterpiece.
But her characters, her stories, and all the clichés she bravely uses, have their charms - especially for the young reader who enter her world.
Rereading the Jalna-series after approximately 15 years. I'm going with chronological order, since that's how I read them when I was about 12 years old. However, last time I read the Swedish translation of the books and this time I'm listening to them in Norwegian (borrowed from NLB).
Entertaining.
First read 50 years ago and upon recalling my enjoyment I decided to re read the series. Lovely descriptions and have not disappointed
I read the entire Jalna series when I was a high school teenager. I loved the characters and the family saga. A world I'd never imagined with characters that were good, kind, less than ideal, delusional, odd/perverse, etc. People have told me how laughable the Jalna books are but I loved them, and plan to re-read them again.
Wanted to read it for years and then found it rather disappointing and slow
I read this because Lydia Davis had mentioned de la Roche's Jalna books as among her literary influences.
This one boils down to lovely, wealthy people to whom nothing terribly riveting happens as they establish their home and dynasty in Ontario, Canada.
De la Roche does wax lyrical, however, when it comes to writing about the natural world - the flora and fauna of the not-yet-settled Canada.
But, given all the far better reads out there, I don't think I'll take up any of the other books in this series.
First in the series of well-known Canadian stories.
The writing feels dated--well, because it was written about 50 years ago.
The author keeps the reader at arm's length the whole time.
It was good enough for me to try the second novel (of which I'm half-through).
Though, I worry, it's a bit too staid to compete with the other items in my to-read list.Luckily the pace is brisk.
So quite a bit happens in each novel, it just doesn't get very intimate.
Meaning, you don't really feel what the characters are feeling beyond catching a character's passing thought.
Grande série de 16 tomes écrite par une Canadienne anglaise.
Histoire se déroulant dans la région des grands lacs de l'Ontario.
Chaque tome suit un des membres de la famille.
Accent cependant sur Renny, le petit-fils de la propriétaire.
On suit la famille sur quatre générations.
C'est un peu long, mais donne une vision de l'histoire ontarienne rurale de l'avant première guerre mondiale (et un peu après).J'ai lu cette série à l'âge de 14 ans...
Mamy et moi nous arrachions les tomes.
À la même époque, il y a eu une série télévisée ontarienne sur cette histoire.
I read a few books of this series in high school.
I thought it was about time that I read all of them.
It was a series that both my Mom and my Grandma read, enjoyed, and shared with each other.
I thought it'd be nice to be part of that legacy.This first book was a little hard to get into, there were parts that had me really absorbed, but other parts had me a little bored.
It felt much longer than the 800+ pages of some of those action/story packed sci-fi novels I so enjoy.
It was still a good story, but I don't really think it needed all the details that it included.
This is the first book in the series--and so of course it introduces all the main characters and the building of the house that will dominate the story.
The Whiteoak family is at the core of the story with the married couple Phillip and Adeline starring as the main characters in this slim volume.
I had a little trouble getting into the first hundred pages, but after I got intrigued by the characters and the basic story, I was on my way to the second novel in the series--Mary Whiteoak.
