https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/555052.The_Way_of_the_Kings
Whereas Conrad's novel came as part of a whole tradition of English writers confronting the ‘savagery’ of the remote parts of their empire (Kipling etc.), French literature, before Malraux, had no such tradition – so just the fact of seeing France's Indochina colonies examined in the same way somehow seems rather radical.The story concerns a young French archeologist who meets a legendary Danish adventurer on the way to Cambodia; the two cook up a scheme to plunder ruined Khmer temples for artifacts, but things go awry when they find themselves lost in the jungle at the mercy of unfriendly natives.
The writing was amazingly profound and personal, I felt like the author was revealing things I needed to know but wouldn't have been able to otherwise to me. And no, it's not pro-colonialism.
Things however don't go according to plan when they happen to come across a group of natives who really don't like them attempting to pinch their stuff.
Although the prose is quite moody and descriptive, I started to get a strong Indiana Jones style vibe from the book as the two men experience what life is really like in the exotic jungle.
Obviously with a book of this age and nature, there are strong colonialism themes and criticisms that you can draw out, but essentially this is a novel that attempts to delve into the human psyche and explores the thoughts that arise when one is facing almost certain death.

it's cool how much fo a shithead this guy comes off as, like he doesn't feel comfortable with how brutal and shitty he's being as he's going around looting siamese temples and killing Savages and calling them bugs, and he's always trying to validate it.
the prose doesn't really kick in until the dude's about to die:That insane feeling that he could grab death by the throat and fight like an animal, which had gripped him when he thought of shooting Savan, spread within him with the force of a seizure.
This effort falls far short of Man's Hope and Man's Fate but certainly had splashes of quality. Malraux can really paint with intensity when he gets going. Unfortunately, this novel had too many clumsy moments and a splatter shot ending which kept it from being top notch.
Superb, best read alongside some Jules Verne.
http://www.liberation.fr/cahier-ete-2...Bien évidemment très bien écrit, cette fresque décrit une aventure digne d'Indiana Jones mais avec une tragique à la française.Le livre est passionnant mais, trop court, à mon goût et reste frustré sur les 2 personnages principaux. L'article de Libération cité plus haut permet de mieux cerner l'histoire et ses aspects autobiographiques
One of those novels that at the time was probably received as forward-thinking in the metropole but now reads as laden with colonial racism, patriarchy and cultural plunder. If one can abide the presence of those themes, there is at least some graceful writing and occasionally poignant philosophical reflections to encounter, though nothing that can't be found elsewhere.
"ready-made ties and alpaca coats"
Odlična zgodba, vsekakor najboljši pa je konec!
Elvarratlan szálak, felületesen borzolt természetrajzok. Minek is bármit is.
Just travelled to Cambodia and saw this in a bookshop in Siem Reap. A mini ‘Heart of Darkness’, at first I was put off by the dated sexism and pretentious conversation, but once the men are in the jungle these don’t matter. The dense visceral descriptions of the jungle seem at one with lives lived fully in the present, completely committed to the moment, and with all the risks this necessarily entails.
A mans' voice, lonely and remote, poised between the shining sky, and death, and darkness; yet in it there was something so inhuman that Claude felt as isolated from it as he would have been by incipient madness.Yeah, so this is definitely a french novel.
I suspect Camus (Malraux's #1 fan) coined the idea of the Absurd just to get the French to shut up already about death and get on with their lives.
Of course Camus also loved the romance of Malraux's life, the way he got caught up in all those revolutions and world-historical events.
“Heart of darkness” removed to Southeast Asia and the vaguely defined jungled and mountainous border areas of Cambodia, Laos, and Siam (Thailand) in the 1920s. One character is a young French orientalist (like Malraux) out to recover Angkorian plunder from the jungle; another is a returning adventurer who hopes to reestablish his “empire” among local tribes and lead their rebellion against encroaching civilization; a third character has tried that and failed and is himself enslaved. Interesting but not particular readable, with a certain amount of early French existential angst thrown in.
Just arrived from China through BM.Page 51:"Les musees sont pour moi des lieux ou les oeuvres du passe, devenues mythes, dorment, - vivent d'une vie historique - en attendant que les artistes les rapellent a une existence reelle. Et si elles me touchent directement, c'est parce que l'artiste a ce pouvoir de resurrection..En profondeur, toute civilisation est impenetrable pour une autre. Mais les objets restent, et nous sommes aveugles devant eux jusqu'a ce que nos mythes s'accordent a eux..."
I liked this book the least of Malraux's books that I have read.
Maybe the language was too difficult for me.
Maybe I should try it in English translation sometime.
The first book by Maulraux, and it made his name as a young writer of great promise in France in the 1930s.
I did feel that Malraux borrowed a lot from Conrad's Heart of Darkness in it, and I confess that I did not like this.
Writers borrow from each other all the time, so that is all right.
The telling is what counts and it did not work very well for me in this book.
Not quite without merit as a story of adventure, very Stevenson-like, but literary very unequal. There are some distinct similarities with Heart of Darkness, by Conrad, even in some details, but not very well elaborated. The metaphysical underlayer is almost ridicule: tough guys Always talking about death and courage; in this way it reminded me of Hemingway, but al least he succeeded in making his characters more plausible!
La Voie Royale comes over (to me) as a semi-autobiographic account meant to somehow justify the author's actions in Cambodia in the 1920s. His admiration for Conrad's Heart of Darkness - which I share with him - shines through in the second part of the novel, but isn't enough for me to appreciate this story of thievery and embarrassing cultural missteps and misrepresentations.
Started out promising, building anticipation for adventure in search of lost ruins to plunder in the jungle. Sadly it rapidly devolved into ranting stream of consciousness of a delirious man as his life slips away amidst the attacks of encroaching tribal natives. The frenatic and feverish pace of action sequences was difficult to follow, not helped by the language and style, which was choppy, complex and convoluted.
Je découvre Malraux. Après avoir dévoré La Condition Humaine, j'ai beaucoup aimé la Voie Royale où l'on sent la touffeur de la jungle grouillant de petites bêtes sympathiques en se demandant quel sens donner à sa vie. C'est divinement bien écrit. Au détour du pillage des richesses cambodgiennes, on croise un Sisyphe aveugle qui rappelle un peu le Kurtz d'Au coeur des ténèbres.
La Voie Royale comes over (to me) as a semi-autobiographic account meant to somehow justify the author's actions in Cambodia in the 1920s. His deep admiration for Conrad's Heart of Darkness - which I share with him - shines through in the second part of the novel, but isn't enough for me to appreciate this story of thievery and embarrassing cultural missteps and misrepresentations.
La voie royale est l'histoire d'un archeologue aventurier qui apres des longues annees ou il vol des tresors Khmers dans les jongles du Cambodge, il fait quelques erreurs et meurt comme il a toujours voulu en courant des grands risques.C'est roman a ses merites mais il atteint pas le niveau du chef d'oeuvre de Malraux La Condition humaine.
This novel is about two adventurers facing death in the jungles of Cambodia and contemplating their place in civilization and impending death. There are a few scenes that are haunting and the reader may never be able to get them out of their minds. The novel is a bit uneven, however.
Z
io ci ho provato- e l'ho anche finito. mi sono annoiata terribilmente, eppure l'ho letto nei luoghi incantati di cui parla. mi dispiace, malraux, ma con te ho chiuso.
pegajoso, denso, negro + Malraux adora o verbo "Crispar"
le style est vraiment trop lourd, presque écrasant, étoufant... bref vous avez compris ^^
J'avais adoré "La condition humaine", mais là franchement, je n'ai rien compris à ce livre.
Just atrocious. I couldn't understand a single convoluted sentence, not because of the language but because of the...just murkiness of the plot and style. Next!
