https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121757.The_Education_of_Hyman_Kaplan
For Jews who love word play, this is an absolute hoot! Non-Jews who love word play might also like it, but as it takes place in an English class for a bunch of Jewish immigrants, mit Yiddisheh eksents yet, it'll fill Jews with nostalgia, even Jews who don't speak Yiddish. After all, it's a comedy about bubby and zaidy! Hyman Kaplan's mistakes are guaranteed to give you the giggles. They certainly did for me!
The book focuses on Kaplan's strange use of the English language: his odd spelling, bizarre pronunciation, and his logical (but incorrect) understanding of word meanings.
The structure of the book consists of separate stories, each with its own title, regarding a different aspect of Kaplan's education or a different level of understanding achieved by Parkhill concerning his most difficult yet most entertaining student.
I work with many second language students, and I've seen many of the errors and much of the confusion in them that Ross shows in Kaplan.
I recommend it as something entertaining and light to read between heavier books.
The conscientious but rather conventional teacher, Mr Parkhill, finds himself faced with the genial but extraordinary character of Hyman Kaplan, a man who writes each letter of his name with a different coloured crayon; for whom every recitation in class is the opportunity for an extravagant public performance; and who applies a unique logic to learning the English language.
It’s also next to impossible not to feel affection for the cast of characters, who include the struggling Mrs Moskowitz, the shy Miss Mitnick (the best student in the class and Kaplan’s great rival in classroom discussions), and of course the wonderful Hyman Kaplan himself.
I loved this book! Mr. Kaplan made me laugh; at some times I felt sorry for him and others I cheered him on! I also did feel some empathy to Mr. Parkhill as well! What an interesting story about Mr. Kaplan and his class at the Night Preparatory School for Adults. As I was reading it, I could hear his accent and his pronounciation - it certainly makes you stop and think how difficult (and illogical) the English language can be, particularly for non-native speakers.
A must for every ESL/EFL teacher (or any foreign language teacher for that matter). I must admit I enjoyed the ingenious Czech translation more than the English original. If you like this book watch Mind your language series (or vice versa)!
Cute fun read. Rather dated since it was first published in 1937, but it was a nice view of my father's generation. And, probably very true of current ESL classes.
Essential reading for an ESL teacher. It did become a little redundant after about page 70. But otherwise, an amusing read!
Very clever and poignant book about a Jewish immigrant in the early 20th century. Hyman Kaplan loves learning the language in coming to American but he lacks some basic skills of pronunciation.He is, however, a bright man who uses his own logic in determining the meaning of word meanings and phrases. The result is delightful humor in typical Rosten style.
First published as a collection in 1937, Rosten's vignettes depict the antics of one particular immigrant student in an adult education night class intended to help foreigners better assimilate to American culture.
As the United States marched further toward war, and especially with the rise of anti-semitism in Europe and the closure of America's borders to Jews abroad, the ability of certain immigrants to become more functionally invisible would have been of sincere value--and while Rosten doesn't tackle the subject with any sense of genuine philosophical complexity, he assuredly understood what he was doing with his humor at the time, and thereafter.I also don't find the book as offensive given that Rosten's style of humor has been a hallmark of many great comedic characters since, including Peter Sellers' (and Steve Martin's) Inspector Clouseau.
I first read this and the sequel as a kid and loved it.
Having just finished them again, I still love the books.
These would be excellent books to bring to a wider audience at this anti-immigrant moment.
The setting is an adult education classroom of mostly immigrants who are trying desperately to learn English.
Hyman Kaplan is a student in this classroom.
But to say that Hyman Kaplan is a student is to miss the point.
He is both a stereotype of the eager immigrant and a unique individual ferociously proud to be American.
As a side note, you can learn a lot about language in this book.
As an example: "For a long time Mr. Parkhill had believed that the incredible things which Mr. Hyman Kaplan did to the English language were the products of a sublime and transcendental ignorance.
That was the only way, for example, that he could account for Mr. Kaplan's version of the name of the fourth President of the United States: 'James Medicine.'....Any final doubts Mr. Parkhill might have felt on the whole matter were resolved once and for all when Mr. Kaplan conjugated 'to die' as 'die, dead, funeral.'" This book shows the difficulty of making sense of the English language, and those who undertake learning it as adults are to be commended.
Besfádná kníga o ednem dobromyšném ale hradným páně Kaplanovi...
Dobře to bylo po Kaplanovsku, teď normálně.
Skvělá kniha.
Kdo někdy zažil nějaké školní útrapy, představte si bandu dospělých cizinců ze všech koutů světa a jejich útrapy z učení se anglického jazyka.
Mezi nimi jednoznačně vyčnívá Hyman Kaplan, který dokáže každé slovo totálně pomotat, až se někdy opravdu smějete nahlas!
:) Občas jsem měla trošku problémy s porozuměním některých slovíček, přeci jen i když jsem četla česky, je to někdy ze 40.
let a některá slova se už dávno nepoužívají.
I přes to všechno jsem se tak nepobavila a neodpočinula si u knížky.
A little outdated, having first been published in 1937, but cute nonetheless. I suppose the humor would have been more immediate at the time it was written. It does show many of the reasons why it's difficult for foreigners to learn English! There are so many ways the language can trip you up if you didn't grow up with it.
Hyman Kaplan was a great character. I loved his confidence and the way he tried to logically explain his many hilarious ways of speaking English. The humor was a little tainted for me by the condescending, unlikeable teacher and it was hard at first to get used to reading the phonetic version of the heavily accented dialogue, but it was still a fun, light read overall.
I still laugh hysterically at the misunderstandings of the English language by the earnest H*Y*M*A*N*K*A*P*L*A*N ever since I was introduced to him by my Jr. High Latin teacher...maybe she felt some of the same frustration in teaching us Latin that Mr.Parkhill felt in the Adult School where he taught Mr. Kaplan and his fellow immigrants...
Charming, observant and at times very funny account of (mostly Jewish) immigrants into NY. The use of spelling to capture immigrant accents and lexicon is terrific. But monothematic, and now a tad dated.
Přečtena cca třetina, musela jsem to odložit, z pana Kaplana lezu po zdi.
"Mr Parkhill read what some unknown Muse in secret visitation had whispered to Hyman Kaplan"By sally tarbox on 4 August 2018Format: Kindle EditionProbably *3.5 for this highly entertaining little novel, set in an English language class for immigrants to the US in 1937.
Although the action is all based around classroom exchanges, we nonetheless get an insight into the main personalities, headed by Yiddish speaker Hyman Kaplan."In his forties, a plump, red-faced gentleman, with wavy blond hair, TWO fountain pens in his outer pocket and a perpetual smile.
Gut-busting hilarious read! Ross is a wordsmith, and the pictures he paints are marvelous, putting the reader right there in the classroom with the angelic KAPLAN, the frustrated but curious teacher Mr. Parkhill, and the rest of the class, split in loyalty.Funny funny funny. Our English language certainly is hard to learn, and the ways it is pointed out are priceless. I like re-reading this book, and I don't think I will ever get tired of it.
This book is a fun and easy read. I laughed out loud reading it. The only issue I could take it with it is that this class doesn't appear to be beginning ESL unless at that time, there were different requirements. The students' main problem seems to be their accent (quite exaggerated, as far as I am concerned) and some grammatical irregularities. Their vocabularies are quite extensive and they make themselves understood most of the time. And certainly their star student, Miss Mitnick, is in no way a beginner, more like pretty solid intermediate.
I’ve read this book many times over the past 40 years or so. This is humor at its absolute best. With all of the turmoil these days readers can simply smile and laugh and know for sure there remains classic humor available. Reading uplifts for sure and never outdated.
Adorable good fun and hilarious wordplay galore. Hyman Kaplan is a pip, up there with the great comic characters, Auntie Mame, Amelia Bedelia, and others.
What a funny, quirky book. I recommend it to all lovers of grammar and word play and education.
Very interesting book and it definitely does relate to myself as a foreigner in this country trying to overcome the language barrier and culture shock!
still a hoot!
This book is like a warm hug: endearing, witty, and a lot of fun.
This book is about a (fictional) adult education class for foreigners wanting to learn English, set in the US in 1937.
The long-suffering Mr Parkhill has a passion for teaching, and loves seeing his students (such as the shy Miss Mitnick) picking up the language well.
but most of all is by turns bewildered and amused by the larger-than-life Mr Kaplan, who sits in the front row with a beaming smile, and never misses a class.
I can imagine that some people might find this offensive, poking fun as it does not just at the English language, but at the foibles of those attempting to learn it.
Hyman Kaplan is a witty character who is a 'problem case' in the english language.
In his class, Mr Parkhill (Hyman's teacher) has no problem with the other kids in his class who are progressing nice and smoothly, Mr Kaplan on the other hand, is using his 'dep ideas' and staying on the English progression line like a rock.
Hyman Kaplan knows of his mistakes and at the end of his test, with his classmate's help says 'I don't care if I don't pass, I love the class.
Mr Parkhill remains silently stunned at this character.
The Education of Hyman Kaplan by Leo Rosten writing as Leonard Q.
Ross (Harcourt 1937) ( Fiction – Humor).This is one of the funniest books I’ve ever read, and it remains one of my favorites almost forty years after I stumbled across it at the library.
Our narrator, Mr. Parkhill, is an English teacher at the American Night Preparatory School for Adults.
The irrepressible Hyman Kaplan turns up in class one day and begins to wage war upon the English language.
This is thought of as a classic of American humor; it’s one of my favorites!
This book is listed here as by "Leo Rosten." My copy, published in 1937 says it is by "Leonard Q Ross." Did the author use an assumed name and then later revealed himself?This book has been on our bookshelf my whole life, and I think this is the first time I have read it.
As I read other reviews of this charming little book, I think probably I am missing some of the Jewish humor because I'm not Jewish, but still I found the book delightful.
Originally the chapters were published in The New Yorker magazine one at a time, so rather than a "novel" this seems more a selection of short essays.
