https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16682.Rocket_Ship_Galileo
Three teen boys love to build rockets and hope to win their school science prize with a successful model.
It is also interesting to note that there was a lot of attention given to three teens' scientific achievements, but their sport wins were not mentioned at all: science education mattered in fifties more.
My opinion still stands after reading this book.
It also contains some fun scientific facts related to space flight that became such common knowledge today that we actually forgot them again.
As I already mentioned my teen self would love the first two thirds of the book.
Lately that hasn't been a huge problem for me, and that isn't really the reason why I didn't like this that much.The main reason would be that the transition was way too fast and the pacing was lost around 60-75% of the novel.
Most people would probably find this boring, but the novel is way too short for you not to give it a try.
They got their parents' consent and were finally allowed to go to the moon.
I honestly hate novels with bad transitions, and unfortunately this falls under the bad ones.
Rocket Ship Galileo is a Heinlein classic, good, straight up science fiction, and a fun story with some genuine twists. True, it is not ageless, the 1947 publication date speaks volumes about what the reader will encounter, but reading between the lines, the reader can also find the beginnings of RAH’s budding libertarianism. Not too far removed from his time in the Navy, a crisp, starched, straight postured militarism is still noticeably present. Good fun.
FIRST HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Okay guys, welcome to the Moon!SECOND HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Explain again how we got here?FIRST HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Wallace and Gromit showed us how to build a moon rocket in our basement. The rest was easy.THIRD HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Who?NAZI IN SPACESUIT: Guten Abend, meine Herren! Ve are all on ze same side, nicht wahr?FIRST HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Sorry Fritz, there's been a change of plan. [Shoots him]NAZI IN SPACESUIT: Schweinhund! Aaargh!SECOND HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: I thought that in space, no one could hear you scream?FIRST HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Don't be silly, Sigourney Weaver hasn't been born yet.THIRD HIGHSCHOOL GEEK: Who?
The kids had to defend them against the Nazis because the adult got knocked unconscious.
So, this book sense the message to kids that, by cooperating with both adults and other kids, they can do huge and important things, like fly to the moon and kill Nazis.
It has just been pushed down here.)I suppose this is going to spoil the book's one big surprise for you, but I imagine it's the only way to get you to read a juvenile from the forties about a (GASP!) trip to the moon.
So here it comes, big spoiler alert.....drumroll......NAZIS MADE IT TO THE MOON BEFORE US!
It's one of his "juveniles," which is another way of saying it's rollicking "golly gee whiz"-style adventure that could have just as well been published in Boy's Life magazine as in hardcover by Scribner's.Three high school seniors on the cusp of graduation get the opportunity of a lifetime when one of their uncles, Dr. Cargraves, a nuclear physicist, is so impressed with their scientifically minded tinkering that he offers to take them with him to the moon for a little expedition.The premise may seem silly, but Heinlein does a good job of making the characters seem serious, and he sticks to accepted science of the mid-'40s when described space flight and rocketry.The trio of 18 year-old boys and Dr. Cargraves establish a base on the moon (an airtight Quonset hut), and claim it for the United Nations.
Not a bad read. It's one of the Heinlein "teen' books that I missed when i was younger. AND this one does read a bit younger than some of hie other youth books. This is the story of young people who get to participate in a private moon shot. One of the more interesting parts of the book (for me anyway) is the dated science. This is a pre-computer, pre-minaturization book and that gives an interesting (did I already use that word?) look at earlier science fiction.
This book epitomizes everything that is right, and everything that is wrong, with young adult fiction.
Especially, young adult fiction written by Robert Heinlein.The basic plot: three high school boys (interested in science and engineering, but well rounded and NOT ANTI-SOCIAL NERDS) get an offer to help one boy's uncle -- the noted Nobel Prize Winning physicist and self-made businessman -- to go to the moon.
In recent (2015) years, it sometimes feels that the only Young Adult science fiction is dystopian.
It was a small leap to expect these 19 year olds to pilot a ship to the moon.The rights: strangely enough, the non-didactic portions of the book were probably the most instructive.
It's easy to dismiss the pre-1965 sci-fi books as "quaint" when read from today's understanding of science and space travel.
If you can suspend your 21st century hubris and read the story from a mindset of a 1950s reader, Rocket Ship Galileo holds up as a great read.
When read with an open mind, it also provides the unexpected enjoyment of getting a glimpse of the perspective and imaginative mindset of the pre-space generation on what science, politics and our exploratory future might look like, with an unintended aspect of nostalgia for today's reader.An easy read.
An enjoyable read.
They are highly advanced science students who've been experimenting with rocket technology as long as they can remember.
But Cosgraves is highly interested in the technology they've evolved on their own and they set out to make a trip to the moon.
First they go to a secure location in New Mexico to build their rocket, the Galileo, and then to plan their trip.
Especially the idea of doing the impossible, like the very first trip to the moon.
I found it hilarious when they talk about the theories surrounding the moon.
It has all the elements of an exciting adventure: space travel, science, and spies.
Very early in his life in a letter, rather than in fiction, he talked about the implausible mapping of human culture onto aliens as a form of laziness in writing and then parenthetically says, "Some day, I should write a novel about a Martian named 'Smith'." With no hint of irony or self-parody, this of course becomes his most famous and probably most-loved novel.Similarly, Rocket Ship Galileo has Space Nazis.
And it is done completely plausibly and makes for a great yarn.The novel has all the normal treats of a Heinlein juvenile.
They team up with a gruff older guy and take the world, or perhaps I should say moon, and the Space Nazis by storm.2013: The kids loved this one.
It was a perfect continuation.2015: This has become only the second re-read with kids.
A "Chums of Chance" style of adolescent story, outdated, obnoxious and kind of silly because, well, we went to the moon and it was nothing like that.
It's not great, but if you are in the mood for it and you don't mind the outdated flaws, you will enjoy this, how could you not, there are Nazis on the moon and moon people and adolescent boys fighting for freedom and they also cook a nice meal on their way to the moon, go away NASA with your pre-packaged food and safety precautions...
gee willikers! This teen fiction from 1947 is really showing its age.. I enjoy Heinleins fiction, but this one is not his best. Worth reading since it is short and shows more of a bygone era.
This was Heinlein's first novel published in book form, and the first in his excellent "juvenile" series which included Space Cadet, Time For The Stars, Starman Jones, The Star Beast, Tunnel In The Sky, etc., and it is still my all-time favorite.
Heinlein manages to make believable the tale of a scientist (Dr. Cargraves) organizing three 18-year-old boys of a rocket club to build a nuclear powered moon rocket.
It is written with Heinlein's usual skill (that earned him four Hugo awards), and the characters are easy to identify with, especially for any young space enthusiasts.
Gee whillikers! Fighting Nazis on the moon!
This started out nicely, but ended up somewhere else. I was impressed with the sci fi aspects - more than 20 years ahead of the actual moon landing.
Set an indeterminate time after WW II, which based on the ages of the characters, I am guessing to be about 15 to 20 years, Heinlein imagines a world where rocket ships made in Detroit are routinely used for high speed, long distance transportation and where nuclear power is the predominant power source for electricity.
Once they are off, Dr. Cargraves, in keeping a promise to the boy’s parents, holds school during which we receive a ration of Heinlein’s patented science lessons explaining the principles, technology and phenomena involved in space flight and rocket propulsion.
Suffice to say the boys thwart the plans of the Nazis and return to earth safe and sound by the end of the book.To modern sensibilities it's easy to see how that plotline can seem a little naive and simplistic, but this is one of the earlier examples of sci-fi space adventure, written only a few short years after the end of the Second World War during a period when hope for the future and fear of the past mixed in equal portions.What this book does show is Heinlein's hope (or perhaps belief) that the younger generation of his time held the potential to lead America, and perhaps the world, into a brighter, more enlightened future.
(view spoiler)[ NAZIS ON THE MOON!
(hide spoiler)] There.
I said it.
What a way to start a review!This book was a fun read for me.
It has been years since I last read it; it was not quite as good as I remembered it being the last time I read it.
It had an easily readable flow to it.
It had some logic errors in the narration [one which I did not catch until I read the comments of another reviewer].
The ending is rather abrupt.
It felt like he could have gone on for another couple of chapters or s
What a way to start a review!This book was a fun read for me.
After reading about the number of rockets actually in use in the world [in the story], I could not help but wonder why nobody had made the trip to the moon sooner than the boys and the uncle.
(hide spoiler)] Other than the Hardy Boys and Tom Swift, I really have not read any other 'juvenile novels' from this time period [the 1940s], so I do not know if other authors had their juvenile characters having similar internal struggles.
It won’t hold up well today (actually, it wouldn’t have held up well when I was reading Heinlein Juveniles in the 1980s) but sometimes it’s fun to read these old science fiction stories for kids and I did have fun recently reading Rocket Ship Galileo even though I am very much aware of its flaws.
If the lessons don’t turn kids off they might enjoy experiencing the fantasies of teenage boys in the 1940s.The audiobook I listened to was narrated by Spider Robinson who has the tone just right.
It’s interesting to see some of the predictions Heinlein optimistically made for the politics and scientific developments of his near-future tale: a substantial United Nations keeping the world peaceful, and a booming (sorry) private rocketry industry proving cargo & passenger service worldwide.
Economically, the same optimism seen in the Detroit auto industry’s roaring 1950’s applies to Heinlein’s fictional atomics and rocketry industries.
After piloting their four-man nuclear-powered backyard rocket to the moon, they are ambushed there by a secret garrison of Nazi holdovers, who have eluded the fate of the rest of the Reich, and are planning a Lunar counterstrike.
Another aspect of the book I found intriguing was that Heinlein wrote about going to the moon, well before we were actually capable of doing so, and some of his description of what that might be like were closer to reality than the anticipations of NASA when they actually built the moon lander!
This is the third book I have read in Heinlein's "juvenile series", which is less a series and more a collection of short books written to engage with younger audiences than his more adult works; the other ones I read were Farmer in the Sky, and Citizen of the Galaxy which I also loved.
Even though it was written shortly after the end of the Second World War, this one seems to have held up less well than any of Heinlein's other books.
The idea of a group of high school boys building a rocket with the help of an uncle and then flying off to the moon where they find that they're not the first ones there after all and then they have to fight Nazis...
Well, it's a very nicely told tale, filled with what now seems like naïve enthusiasm and optimism, and I enjoyed it very much as a child, even though at the time I knew it was quite dated.
Ok the first thing to remember was that was written in 1947 - before any form of space flight let alone man on the moon.
If you can accept all this wait till you see what they discover on the moon, it was a fun slice of science fiction history but even by Heinlein standards (which i am sure there are many out there who want to criticise) this was dated and not so inspiring piece but still it was fun to read.
The audiobook version is read by Spider Robinson. He's not monotone per say, sometimes he sounds very natural, but, in the end it doesn't matter. Heinlein's story is so interesting that I don't hear the orator anymore, I simply see the story being played out. I LOVE the mini-lectures. He's always sure to explain the physics of what's going on. I love that. In classic Heinlein fashion it ends without a "true ending," though everything is wrapped up neatly. I love that too. Let's face it, Heinlein was a great writer, and this is a great book. :)
The premise of this book can essentially be summed up as: World famous scientist recruits three teenage boys for a shoestring trip to the moon.
It gets sillier.
As for the rest of the book well lets just say it was written in 1947 and leave you to draw your own conclusions about what happens when they get to the moon.
All very silly classic sci fi but even more lacking in character depth than normal and with a fair few bizarre sections making this probably my least favorite Heinlein to date.
Having said that it deserves the usual caveats for the fact that it was written in 1947!
Ever watch the old cereal TV shows where they half-an-hour short segments ending with a cliffhanger?
Read Rocket Ship Galileo and experience the old-time themes of adventure and action and fun.I gave this novel 5 stars because it was so Retro in its methods, I thought I was back in the 60s, watching TV on a Saturday morning.
The story is fresh and thrilling, with twists and unexpected turns.
This not one of those moderns scifi stories that goes on for 600 pages, NO, it is like a novella on steroids!
definitely a Good Read.
To all the detractors of this book, I say lighten up. It is sci-fi meant to be enjoyed by 12 year old boys, written over 50 years ago. It holds up pretty well. The kids (characters) are smart and respectful. There is violence, but it isn’t gratuitous. My 10 & 12 year old loved it. They wanted to give it 5 stars. My only complaint has to do with the ending. I don't want to give anything away, but I didn't think it tied up the story very well.
Heinlein's 1947 tale of an engineer and three boys who journey to the moon is a fun, light read. Though it's early Heinlein it sets a precedent that his stories were to generally follow. His characters exude competence. Of course, the ease with which his quartet get to the moon turned out to be far too optimistic. The Nazi twist to the story makes sense given the time in which it was written.Don't go here looking for great literature or high drama. But it is a fun, simple read.
This book was the loose inspiration for Heinlein's screenplay for the film Destination Moon - the first film to ever win an Oscar for special effects. The film is also notable for it's realistic and accurate portrayal of space travel and a landing on the moon. It was made well before our first visit to the moon.
