https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/35297316-the-room-on-rue-am-lie
I adored this novel!This was a touching and unforgettable WWII story revolving around Ruby Benoit, a brave young American newlywed woman, living in occupied Paris during wartime devastation and desperation.
I enjoyed the way the story unfolded overlapping through their perspectives in alternating chapters.One of the things I most enjoyed about this novel was learning that Ruby’s character was based on a real woman named Virginia d’Albert-Lake.
I found her story so captivating and inspiring and to discover that much of what unfolds in this book was based on real events made me appreciate this novel so much more.
Set in World War II, my favorite time period of which to read, the Epilogue of The Room on Rue Amelie set the intriguing stage, as it was not until the end of the book that I knew which loving elderly couple was portrayed.In 1939, Ruby falls in love with a Frenchman and moves to Paris, against her parents’ wishes because the political climate of the time is uncertain.
The Room on Rue Amelie is an endearing story of WWII, lovingly told, of bravery and the utmost sacrifice.
The Room on Rue Amelie is an easy, lighter more dramatic WWII story of the sacrifices and bravery of the heroes who take a stand against injustice.
It was a nice change of pace for us and we really enjoyed the lighter, endearing and easier side to a WWII story that still had the depth and layers to make it an intriguing story for us.
We could feel their courage, love, fear and the danger they faced with bravery and we were touch by the emotional depth of this story.
This is my first book by Kristin Harmel but not my last.
Cliches abound: “You must forgive yourself.
Knowledge is power.
It’s a mother’s job to protect her child.
It’s what’s inside a person that counts.
Better safe than sorry.
I still believe in the goodness of mankind.
What matters is what’s in your heart.
Your life depends on it”.
At one point.
Given what I do for a living, I should have known better.
This is a straightforward romance and not up my street in the least.
I awarded four stars because it succeeds within this genre and romance readers will positively swoon.
This is supposed to be historical fiction about the resistance in Paris during WWII, but in reality it's just a bad romance story using the above premise as a backdrop to tell the story.
For me, it's as if The Nightingale and The Lilac Girls were mashed together into one bad novel, taking the worst parts of each book.
I am not a fan of romance novels and this book just reinforces that dislike.
I really like historical fiction about WWII, but this book should not be a part of this genre based on its shallowness.
When Ruby, a young American girl, meets and falls in love with Marcel, a young Frenchman, she doesn't realize the changes she will have in her life.
Ruby lives next door to a Jewish couple and their daughter, Charlotte.
As the story plays out with the backdrop of war, Ruby falls in love with Thomas and they vow to be waiting for each other when the war ends.This was quite a nice story, one that showed how good people are when times are evil and life has turned in a horrible direction.
Kristin Harmel did an exquisite job of capturing this dismal time in history through multiple characters, though mainly from the perspective of Ruby, an American woman living in Paris.
Readers are able to feel the characters growing and changing as the war makes them weary, allowing them to feel a personal connection to the people in the story.As I got closer to the conclusion, I was nervous all of the ends would not be able to be tied up in the few remaining pages.
3.5 stars Thanks to NetGalley for an advanced ebook in exchange for an honest review."The Room on Rue Amelie" is a World War II romance that takes place mainly in Paris and is triple narrated by three different characters that quickly take hold of the pages.
As the author acknowledges in her Afterword pages, the character of Ruby was based on a real American woman -Virginia d'Albert Lake.
I also felt the characters were all a bit free with information given that it was a time of war and all resistance members risked getting caught by the Gestapo.
4,5 stars This story was fantastic, I don't usually read this type of books but from the moment I re
3.5 starsWhen Ruby Henderson visits Paris, she falls in love with Marcel Benoit.
Ruby marries Marcel and moves to the city with which she has also fallen in love with.
As the war atrocities pile up, these two women will become inseparable.This book was yet another historical fiction work to add to my repertoire.
Ruby is an American woman that moves to Paris when she marries a Frenchman.
When tragedy strikes, Ruby steps up and becomes part of the resistance movement helping downed pilots leave Paris safely.
Virginia d'Albert-Lake was a Florida woman that married and moved to Paris.
➳I cannot believe I just finished this book in two days... This was such an emotionally sweet, semi-romantic, historic novel that took my breathe away with it's sweetness and adoration towards the writing... ➳ARC kindly provided by Gallery Books in exchange for an honest review...➳Follow Me On:Blog ♕ Instagram ♕ Facebook ♕ Twitter
That being said, "The Room on Rue Amélie" is one of the best books I have read this year.
When I read my first book by author Kristin Harmel a few years ago, my heart was broken and put back together so many times I lost count - and that was in one book!
In her latest book, "The Room on Rue Amélie" which will be published in March of 2018, We meet a couple in 2002.
I grew to love each and every one of them and, as I read, hoped they would survive.Young college student Ruby Henderson is living in New York City in 1938.
Thank you Goodreads and author Kristin Hammel for awarding me the novel from the book giveaway. A breathtaking WWII historical fiction where strangers meet and conspire together to attempt an escape from Nazi occupied Paris. I enjoyed the author’s story telling ability, the exceptional descriptions of Paris as well as the noteworthy research on WWII history. Highly recommended.
The Room on Rue Amélie by Kristin Harmel is a heartbreaking and inspiring tale of love, loss and survival during the tumultuous times of World War II."That's one thing faith is especially good for: giving us strength in times of crisis"I have always found stories based during this era of time to be extremely emotional.
The Room on Rue Amelie focuses on the lives of three different people during World War II.Ruby Henderson meets and falls in love with Marcel Benoit.
But Paris is on the cusp of becoming involved in World War II and this changes both of their lives forever.Charlotte Dacher is a young girl who lives with her family next to Ruby and Marcel.
The Dacher's are Jewish and start to see their world closing in on them as the war progresses.Thomas Clarke is a member of the British Royal Air Force who ends up in Paris after his plane is shot down.These three lives collide during World War II as they fight for their lives.
The Room on Rue Amelie by Kristin Harmel is an historical fiction novel that takes the reader back to WWII.
In the beginning of this brilliant novel, I wondered how Charlotte, a young Jewish girl in Paris, Thomas a RAF pilot based in England and Ruby a young American married and living in Paris could meet.
Kristin Harmel answered by musings and brilliantly intertwined their lives.In any good book, I feel that the reader must relate to the characters.
Thank you to NetGalley and Kristin Harmel for the privilege to read this brilliant 5 star novel.
This was a goodreads giveaway win for me; many thanks to the author and publisher!Kristin Harmel has written a very nice story of historical fiction, which takes place in Paris during WWII.
Next door lives an older Jewish couple with an inquisitive young daughter named Charlotte who becomes Ruby's friend/confidante.When war breaks out, Marcel becomes more and more secretive and distant and he reacts badly when Ruby discovers she's pregnant.
Harmel's story was inspired by the adventures of an American woman named Virginia d'Albert-Lake who married a Frenchman, moved to Paris and worked behind the scenes during the war.
A remarkable WW2 story about an American woman in Paris who hides both a dashing RAF pilot and a young Jewish girl, with life-changing repercussions for all.
The year is 1939 and Ruby Benoit is an American newlywed who arrives in Paris with her husband, Marcel.
As the Nazis’ hold over Paris tightens, Ruby knows that she must fight against the injustices that she sees.Author Kristin Harmel was inspired to write this novel after reading the true story of an American woman who married a Frenchman and moved to Paris just before World War II.
Thank you to author Kristin Harmel, Simon & Schuster, and Net Galley for giving me the opportunity to read the ARC of this historical novel.
Heartbreaking.
And beautiful.
And I can’t believe I binged the entire thing in one night...that’s how good it was.
I kept saying, oh I’ll just stop after this chapter.
And I didn’t!
It was just so GOOD!
This is one piece of historical fiction that gets it right.
The characters were believable, the settings were magnificent (and horrifyingly real), and the story was incredible.
It releases in March 2018...get it.
You won’t be sorry.
For fans of Kate Quinn’s The Alice Network, this is your next binge, trust me.
HUGE thanks to NetGalley for allowing me a sneak peek in exchange for an honest review.
I hoped the rest of the book was like that, but it fell sort of flat.
I didn’t really connect with any of the characters, and they all seemed to have swallowed a book of clichés that were thrown about like ordinary conversation and lost all meaning.
I’m not a huge fan of romance stories or WWII stories to begin with (which makes you wonder why I was reading this, but again, the prologue was beautiful), so the fact that this was mainly a romance with a bit of WWII thrown in wasn’t exactly my cup of tea.
RECENSIONE QUI: https://thereadingslove.blogspot.com/...Le storie ambientate durante la Seconda guerra mondiale sono da sempre le mie preferite non solo perché racchiudono tutta la sofferenza, la crudeltà umana e le vite spezzate di milioni e milioni di innocenti ebrei e altre etnie, ma anche perché con queste storie si ricorda ciò che è stato e che non si dovrebbe più ripetere.
Ruby Henderson è una giovane donna americana che si trasferisce a Parigi pochi anni prima della guerra e già da allora respira nell’aria un clima politico incerto che preannuncia l’arrivo del terribile conflitto.
“Cruelty is the weapon of the ignorant.”If you’re looking for an easy reading WW11 histfic selection, you might enjoy The Room on Rue Amélie, a story of people who see injustice and have the courage to stand up and fight against it.
For me, it was mediocre compared with other reads in the same genre.
Although the dialogue could have been better written and the events better developed, the topic of rescuing downed English pilots over war torn France was interesting and seemed to be well researched.
Even though I would rate the writing 2.5 and skimmed several sections, I’ve rounded this to 3 stars for a compelling topic.For more reviews visit my blog: Readingladies.com
4 stars from me for this classic WWII storyI feel like it's been a while since I read a book in this genre and it reminded of how much I enjoy books with this historical setting.
I've always dreamed of living in Europe, so this was fun to ponder -- would I have stayed or would I have tried to return to the US?This book has a lot of great WWII elements: intrigue and the resistance, a love story, knowing what will come for the Jewish residents of Paris, and concentration camps.
I recommend this to people that enjoy WWII stories.
I received this book as a goodreads win! I would have bought it anyway! Such a heartbreakingly beautiful story! People helping others during ww2! I could not put it down!
Simply beautiful! Characters that you never forget. Its kind of amazing, that with the incredible amount of world war two holocaust stories, that new ones manage to touch us. Every time we think we have heard it all, a new story is created, that never fails to touch. Very well done.
Star Rating: 4.5 StarsNothing quite like trying to hold back tears at work.

השנים הן סוף שנות ה 30 תחילת מלחמת העולם השניה.עם כיבוש פריז, מערכת היחסים בין רובי לבעלה מתדרדרת באופן קיצוני כשהוא נעלם מהבית ימים ולילות ומזלזל באינטיליגנציה שלה כשהוא לא מוכן בשום צורה לשתף אותה במחשבותיו על המלחמה ועל הנאצים.רובי הפגועה אינה מבינה את התנהגותו ואינה רואה דרך לתיקון מערכת יחסיהם.יום אחד, רובי מוצאת אדם זר בעל מבטא אנגלי על סף דלתה.
(view spoiler)[ רק לאחר מותו, רובי מגלה שבעלה חבר במחתרת הצרפתית ומסייע להחביא טייסים של בנות הברית ולהבריחם דרך הפירנאים.
(hide spoiler)]אבל ממחצית הספר, העלילה מקבלת תפנית שלילית ביותר: רובי מתאהבת בטייס אנגלי בשם תומס שמגיע פצוע אל דלתה.
I won this title in a Goodreads giveaway & was quite excited, as I particularly enjoy historical fiction and WW2-era stories. Alas, the enthusiasm waned quickly.I won’t summarize the synopsis here as it can be easily read online; however, I do want to note that it wasn’t a particularly original plot. The heroine falls in love not once, but TWICE “at first glance.” Writing is simplistic and juvenile; the story takes on a tedious “tell, don’t show” nature; clichés run rampant; action takes a backseat to dialogue.
