https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674994.Babe
An excellent biography of the Babe written by Creamer in 1974.
Creamer was a long time journalist for Sports Illustrated.
Ruth has the most home runs ever hit in a 154 game season with 60.
He has the second most home runs in World Series history only bested by Mickey Mantle who has nearly twice the number of at bats.
The Babe was also an enormously talented pitcher in his first four seasons while playing for the Boston Red Sox. He held the World Series record with 29 consecutive scoreless innings pitched until Whitey Ford bested it nearly 50 years later.
True to its title, this book brought Babe Ruth to life for me.
Yet he was kind to children, the product of a difficult childhood, friendly, a great tipper, fun-loving, the life of the party, smiley, funny, earthy, willing to sign autographs for hours, extremely athletic, and, without a doubt, one of the greatest baseball players ever.
I really appreciated the way this biography tried to evoke many different sides of Babe, including the good and bad, the large and small, the public and personal.
Life is difficult and complex.
The Babe's life was no different.
Certainly the best source of information I have found on Babe Ruth. The author covers everything one can think of for Babe - whether it was success on the field as both a pitcher and a hitter, his huge appetite for liquor, food and sex, or some of his famous legendary stories such as the "called shot" homer in the 1932 World Series. An excellent book on one of the most famous athletes of the 20th century.
A child of the Baltimore streets sent to an orphanage/reformatory school captures the imagination of the American public through his tremendous athletic ability and personality.
Per Creamer, Babe Ruth had two things going for him: incredible baseball ability and a sense of his own self worth.
My favorite anecdote is an 18 year old Babe, fresh from the orphanage, on his first trip to New York City earnestly sitting on a street corner.
When asked what he was doing, he replied "I heard the girls will come if I sit here."Despite the largesse of his subject Creamer never gets lazy and reverts to rehashing legend.
If you are a baseball fan? Or a Babe Ruth fan you will certainly enjoy this book. There is so much information that some is well know while others not so much. It gives you a great look at the great bambino. It states his greatest moments and his lowest moments.
Interesting story of this baseball legend.
Superb biography without hagiography.
Written for a true fan of baseball. Very interesting.
But more than discussing the famed exploits of this often larger than life personage, Creamer uses anecdotes to explore other aspects of his life.*************************[Ruth is talking to a reporter during batting practice before a Yankees-Browns game in 1930.
In the fifth inning of the third game of 1932 World Series with the Chicago Cubs, Babe Ruth hit a monstrous home run into the center field bleachers of Wrigley Field.
With the count two balls and two strikes, Ruth, who had been taunted unmercifully by both the Cubs fans and players, pointed two fingers toward the center field bleachers.
I found this quite an excellent biography of someone who has become, to me, a caricature through the process of Hollywood storytelling based on his life.
Thinking of “The Babe” and The Whammer in “The Natural”, Babe Ruth always struck me as an over-the-top, larger than life, uninhibited, womanizing lout.
Ends up that’s one side of the story, but there are plenty more.
“Babe” really tells the story from all sides, and eliminates my sense of Babe as just a impulsive ass that happened to be a great baseball player.
Creamer has performed a public service in making the Babe a multi-dimensional person.
I first became interested in Babe Ruth after watching William Bendix 1948 movie and read a couple of biographies of him as a boy. This is a very good biography of the Babe. It appreciates him and exposes his flaws.(Note: I'm stingy with stars. For me 2 stars means a good book. 3 = Very good; 4 = Outstanding {only about 5% of the books I read merit this}; 5 = All time favorites {one of these may come along every 400-500 books})
The best of any biography of Babe Ruth! Robert Creamer was one of the best writers for Sports Illustrated and this bio reflects his tenacious reporting and fantastic writing. This is the bio of Babe Ruth to read.
Extremely straightforward. Just the facts. Nothing more or less
Great baseball, bio, cultural and historical readMost detailed, frank and adult version of The Babe's life. Author is adept at conveying the life of a simply complex man.
Babe Ruth was a larger than life person and the legend he left behind is even bigger than that. The author captures,the man and the myth in a great book.
Out went the domination of scratch 2-1, 1-0 games - the traditional "inside" baseball favored by old timers like John McGraw - and in came the era of the live ball, huge new stadiums (and "the House that Ruth Built"), and the home run king, the slugger, the Bambino, who for his efforts, his charisma, his unparalleled ability drew the highest salary in sports, higher than the next closest salary by multiples of three, four, and five.
Het boek is chronologisch opgebouwd, zonder tijdsprongen, en geeft ook een goed beeld van ‘de tijd van toen’.Mijn oordeel: ik kende Ruth van enkele verhalen (the called shot en zijn home-run-record bijvoorbeeld) en zag ook de (niet bijster goede) biopic met John Goodman in de hoofdrol.
Dit boek geeft heel wat meer ins and outs, en Creamer doet dat consequent op een genuanceerde manier.We krijgen een beeld van zijn leven op het veld, maar ook ernaast, en dat is wel ferm gedaan.
Creamer’s Babe: The Legend Comes to Life is worth a read, but it’s a little dated.
Creamer does a good job of recounting all the stories you’ve heard about these years and thankfully mute on the idea of curses.
But where this book stands out from earlier biographies is the spotlight on Ruth off the field: he boozed often, partied hard and ate prodigiously: he once ate an 18-egg omelet.
For someone who was close to Ruth, its shame Creamer doesn’t feature her more; she doesn’t even get a photo in the book.
I only learned about this one when I read the author's obit over the summer, when the book was called a definitive bio of the Babe.
No hyperbole there.This isn't some children's biography of a great sports hero, the kind we all found in the elementary school library about everyone from the Babe to Edison to colonial heros, etc.
Rather, this is a look at Babe Ruth the myth and the man, weighted heavily on the side of the man.
Creamer debunks the bellyache myth and the called shot, no big deal there.
Creamer's book shows us, though, that Babe was also much, much more.
This is the life story of George Herman (Babe) Ruth from his birth in 1895 in Baltimore to his death in 1948 in New York City.
It traces his upbringing, mostly in St. Mary's home for boys, his rise as a baseball player, first for the minor league team in Baltimore, then as a pitcher for the Boston Red Sox, and finally as an outfielder for the New York Yankees.
Nevertheless, it appears that Babe Ruth remained a young boy at heart all of his life and with only a few rare occasions, treated every young kid with interest and respect.
Babe: The Legend comes to life is a biography on Babe Ruth, it focuses mainly around his career and what made him such a respected baseball player, but it also has chapters on his childhood and school.
If it elaborated more on his childhood and such it would make it that much better.I would recommend this book to anybody who likes sports or loves baseball, although, you should have a basic knowledge of baseball, I knew nothing about how baseball works and this book uses a lot of terms that I didn't understand, but still an interesting read!
In the book, "Babe: The Legend Comes to Life," by Robert W.
Creamer, it gives a detailed run down of Babe Ruth's life.
It talked about how successful he was as a baseball player, and how became the legend everybody remembers him of today.
Babe Ruth impacted the American culture by making baseball one of America's favorite pastimes, and giving athletes around the world determination to be successful like him.
I would recommend this book to people who like baseball history or the sport in general because it really goes into depth about one of the greats.
Originally published in 1974, Creamer's book was the first "serious" biography of Ruth and remains the standard work on the subject.
The first few chapters are a bit slow as the author painstakingly chips away at decades of apocrypha and rumor to reconcile the many conflicting accounts of the Babe's youth.
The pace picks up once Ruth reaches the big leagues and really takes off after he's sold to the Yankees.
Creamer is frank about the Babe's ravenous appetites and the effect these had on those around him, notably his first wife.
The definitive biography of the larger than life piece of Americana.This is a reissue of a book that was written in 1974, well before Barry Bonds and the Steroid era.This was a really quick read - not because it's a small and easy to read book, but because Mr. Creamer does a great job holding your attention.
Since all events of this book occur in the first half of the 20th century, the author relies on newspaper accounts (which were often imprecise and full of hyperbole) and recollections of people who actually saw the event.
Great bio of Ruth, beautifully written, generally acclaimed as one of the best sports bios.
Creamer wrote it some four decades ago, and was still able to interview plenty of people who knew Ruth and his exploits first-hand.
(Also written prior to the contemporary and highly aggravating vogue for recreating dialogue from incidents at which the neither author, nor any direct witness he can cite, was present.) The book is generally sympathetic, though far from hagiography: George Herman was more or less an overgrown boy with the appetites of three grown men, Creamer makes clear that this wasn't always pleasant for those close to him.
Still, a delightful work that manages despite the highly visible warts to leave Ruth's myth intact.
Babe Ruth really does come to life in this popular (versus scholarly) biography. I didn't realize how well-rounded a player Ruth was. The legend is great slugger, good pitcher, lots of strike-outs; the truth is great slugger (arguably the best ever even to now), very good if sometimes erratic pitcher, high batting averages, good all-around player. His personal life was a mess — heavy drinker, constant womanizer, egotistic, unreal and irrational self-image, fun to be around, notoriously self-centered, perhaps (layman's opinion) manic-depressive — but his childhood was a mess that it seems he never broke away from.
Babe was everything to baseball and sports.
This is one of the best biographies ever written.
A reader doesn't have to love baseball to enjoy the stories of the sultan of swat.
Not only did he live big but he made baseball and sports big.
He is responsible for Yankee stadium, pinstripes on the Yankee uniforms because the owner thought that they would make him look thinner and numbers on the back of jerserys so they could sell programs and fans could identify their heroes.
This is one of the best adult adaptions of Babe Ruth as no stone is left unturned.
multiple stories were repeated.
Excellent. Focuses on Ruth's amazing on-field exploits with jaunts into his much-hyped personal life. A home run powerhouse, Babe Ruth came to prominence in an era when 12 homers a season topped the league and then he consistently hit more than 40. Ruth was so much more than a home run hitter, though -- routinely among league leaders in batting average, on-base percentage and slugging percentage. He was also an effective base stealer, pitcher and fielder. One of the first five ballplayers admitted to Cooperstown, Babe Ruth revolutionized baseball forever.
This was great- one of my favorite sports bios. I know the author did a lot of research but I often found myself experiencing what I did while reading Boulevard of Broken Dreams -the James Dean bio. There were just too many details in places where there shouldn't have been. I can't explain it but a lot of this felt like these were details the author (or anyone else besides Babe)couldn't possibly have known.
This is a great book on Babe Ruth that is not just about tossing out a bunch of stats on how great of a ballplayer he was. Yes, there is a fair amount regarding his on the fields feats but this also includes stories of Ruth off the field. It follows his childhood through the beginning, prime, and end of his career. What makes the book interesting in that his off the field persona is just as compelling as his on the field talents.
