https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22188.Gossip_Girl
The following is a public service announcement sponsored by The Committee For Teens Who Read Real Books: Attention teenage girls!
Looking for a book to read for your English class, but don't know where to start?
I know what you're thinking: you want to read about fashion and celebrities, but Seventeen doesn't count as a book (like, how unfair is that?!).
You want a book that doesn't have a plot (too confusing) but J.D. Salinger is too complicated.
After these, making the transition to reading real books will be easy!
There's one thing that you must accept before you read these books: lives like those written about in Gossip Girl exist.
Granted, I'm much more like the Jenny Humphrey type who witnesses the drama from the outside, but I still hear about it.
That theme felt evident to me in these books.I found Blair to be thrilling, quite honestly.
Maybe it's partly because I know so many girls just like her, but she was so amusing to shadow, as bitchy and temperamental as she was.
She was refreshing and comical and outrageous, and it's so rare to read a book whose main character is an antiheroine.
i thought about giving this book five stars, not because it's so great, but because i think everyone with daughters should at least look at it -- my 14 year old has devoured all eight or nine in the series (good god!) and i felt like i ought to know what she was reading.
it really was absolute dreck -- by page 39 there was discussion of a)sex between tenth graders, b)copious drinking in front of(!) insanely permissive parents, c)dope smoking galore, and d)bulimia as a way of life.
To be fair, Gossip Girl does cover this ground amply--its debauched youths smoke French cigarettes on the steps of the MET, drink cosmos and vodka tonics in swank hotel bars, molest each other, sleep around, and buy pot in Central Park.
No Problem." The outcast may succumb to his fantasies of what it would be like to escort a rich girl to a benefit party while wearing an Armani suit, but he'll end up taking the suit back to the department store before he makes a fool of himself.
The author clearly knows nothing about 16 year olds aside from what she's seen in horrible television shows (all the ones just like the show this series spawned).
I feel like I could have written this book when I was 12 years old, only I actually was able to create character development at that age - and I'm not a writer!
Ignore the '15 and older' warning on the back, 11 year olds are reading this and emulating this behaviour.
This was an enjoyable story, but the pace was a little slow; there seemed to be lots of scene setting and not so much action.6 out of 10
I mean, COME ON.Not only is this book written with the intelligence of a monkey on acid, there's just something stomach-churning about a plot-less book about teenagers with too much money gulping down booze, sticking their fingers down their throats, sleeping with each other's boyfriends, and saturating it with deep prose suck as "shit," "fuck," "slut," "bitch," "whore," etc as if it were all normality, you know, just a day in the life.
Christ.The actual Gossip Girl TV show is so great that I felt inspired to read the book ...
I enjoyed getting into the more "hipster" characters, the ones who read poetry, drink black coffee, and aren't extravagantly wealthy (Dan, Vanessa, Jenny).
As you read through Vanessa's section, you see Dan as an awkward, stereotypical guy who simply likes this girl for her beauty.
You want to hate them for being spoiled brats, but I usually just end up feeling empathy for them.
Blair is constantly plagued by insecurity, (shown through her bulimia) and is left with the feeling that she will always be overlooked when placed next to Serena.
Serena has looks and charm, but is hated by everyone, usually out of jealousy.

So, I basically just read the pilot episode. Snobby girls and boys doing inappropriate things for sixteen year olds and there's nothing much else to it.
I found most of the "gossip" about Serena, Blair, and the gang tedious and completely without humor, and the voice of the Gossip Girl irritating and intrusive rather than wickedly funny (which seems to be what the author was going for).
I would never disparage a teenager for reading it, but I might also encourage her to try well written – but still very fun – books like Lola Douglas’ Hollywood Starlet series.
Normally I don't judge people based on the choice of books they happen to enjoy.
But this is an exception, anyone who managed to finish this book without feeling an intense need to put to it down and scream, or at least cringe at certain parts that resemble the Stuff White People Like blog, congratulation, you have a literary taste equivalent to overnight McDonald burgers.
The characters are about as human and profound as my wallpaper (decorated with European brands I can't pronounce) and it probably has the most exclamation marks I've ever read in a book that is not self published!!!!!!!!!!!!
I found a few punctuation mistakes—without looking, which bothers me—like "...Cyrus Rose was a completely annoying, fat, loser." Honestly; that's one of the first things you learn about punctuation.It's a book about a bunch of sixteen- and seventeen-year-old kids who are richer than rich, go to private school in New York, and are, of course, immensely popular.
I've read fanfiction more realistic, complete with Mary Sues.
Throughout the books there are these random pages where it is a fake (well actually sort of real) website that is ostensibly a gossip site for NYC private school kids.
But yeah, it gets ridiculous ("Blair squeezed Tom's of Maine fennel toothpaste onto her Braun electric toothbrush").Anyway, the Gossip Girl's most interesting/useful aspect comes in 'cause she sort of comments omnisciently on all the characters, which makes it feel as if someone is actually telling you all of this as one long story -- at first I thought it was intrusive, but the more of these I read (and read), the more I actually like it as a conceit.
This book was okay. I thought it would be better then it was. I started to read it, one, because it was a shorter book that I knew I could finish before the end of the year. Two, because I have seen the show and I wanted to compare them. It wasn't that bad so if you like these kinds of books I recommend this book for you.
How can I love the show so much, but think the books are horribly written and duller than dishwasher?
Unnecessary descriptions of non-entity characters and clothes?
At least in the show, we get to see the outfit, not read a boring description about it.
The book was boring as hell.
You think that'd be fun, but no!
It's boring!
The only good thing about the book was Gossip Girl's witty entries (and I kept hearing Kristen Bell's voice in my head when I read them) but there wasn't enough of them to keep me satisfied.
DO NOT READ THE BOOKS!
Serena is a young girl who made lots of bad choices, she went to boarding school, and got kicked out because of some of her mistakes.
Serena and Blair used to be best friends before Serena went off to boarding school, but ever since she came back, nothing has been the same.
This was tough for Serena, she was known as the prettiest, richest, and smartest girl in her single-sex private school, Constance Billard, in New Yorks Upper East Side, but still couldnt seem to find a friend.The main idea of the book basically goes on about their senior year of highschool and all the drama that comes with it.
The show is a charming, frothy, silly soap opera, where you root for the characters almost in spite of yourself; the book was very, very dull, and full of people I couldn't care less about.The writing was dull and stilted, and the characters were flat.
I'm disappointed in the people that read these - I'm as big a fan of fluff books as the next girl, but at least read some good ones!
To be honest I read this because I missed Gossip Girl (the show) and while rewatching season 1 again for the millionth time (because that's the best season of the show) I started thinking about the book and wondering if there were any similarities.
I mean people are freaking out about sex and drugs or drinking in YA now and this book has all that and more and it was published almost 15 years ago!
In my opinion YA needs to talk more about these things.
Ugh, this was awful.
Closer to a magazine minus the pictures.
There are so many wrong morals ~ sex, drugs, eating disorders.
And everyone seems so dumb.And the men!
Wow, one girl is pretty much raped in a bathroom (but everyone knows that about that guy so it's okay!?
WHAT!!!!) And one guy is a stalker!
He is so crazy infatuated with a girl HE DOESN'T EVEN KNOW that he follows her.He tries to strategically be near her at places so he can watch her!
Ack!
That's not love!
and if your daughter is reading it!!!
READ IT!!!
I read this book in my local Raleys grocery store.(a) It was available in a Raleys(b) I could quickly read it (and I'm usually not a particularly fast reader) during the course of shoppingI thought it was utter garbage.However, I realize I am not the target market. If you are addicted to spicing up your pathetic life by living vicariously through others' titillating encounters whilst simultaneously feeling smug about your perceived moral superiority, so much so that you've exhausted the details of the lives of your friends, acquaintances and the tabloid pseudostars, then perhaps this book is for you.
I don't really know why I read this book. Maybe because I had it, maybe because every now and then my brains asks me for a trashy read.And this one is really, really trashy. Cardboard cut-outs as characters (including Chuck Bass—now with 100% more rapey-rapist vibes), superficiality all over the place and a plot that goes nowhere. And, still, I want to keep reading. Goddamn you, brain.
Addictive
What beautiful, beautiful trash.
It’s like opening a bag of Doritos – you take a small handful and you know it’s bad for you, but that cheesy, salty goodness is just too hard to resist and before you know it, you’re devouring the chips and you can’t stop and then the bag is empty, and you’re sitting there (often still hungry) hating yourself and wishing you ate a piece of fruit instead.Gossip Girl is junk food.
I like your style, girl!There might be other important characters, but I’m too bored to care about them.
At A GlanceGenre: Young Adult; Chick LitLove Triangle/Insta Love?: Triangle!
Cliff Hanger: nope.Rating: 4 StarsScore SheetAll out of tenCover:  8Plot:  7Characters: 8World Building: 7Flow:  9Series Congruity: n/aWriting: 8Ending: 7Total: 8In DeptBest Part: Bitchy girls.
Worst Part: Shady girls!Thoughts Had: Lets do this; dumb boys!ConclusionContinuing the Series: yesRecommending: yes!Short Review: Ok, i know i usually complain about MCs who aren't the smartest or have any action scenes, but sometimes you need a little guilty pleasure books, and these are mine!
I love bitchy girls!
I love this cast of characters thou, very interesting bunch.
I can't wait to get through all these!Review in GIF Form:
I don't know why I used to watch the tv series.
I can't relate to any of the characters, except Humphreys and Vanessa, don't want to live in New York either.
Life like this, frivolous, dramatic obviously doesn't fit every soul, but I am curious, do richer families in the United States truly live freer.
Sometimes it seems that Europe doesn't know Americans' lifestyle at all, I mean - you can't say anything unless you have experienced it.
Anyway, thanks, I am full of experience of fiction New York PASSIONS.
A student left a copy of this book in my room, and one afternoon I picked it up and read it.
While I'm sad to say that I probably stuck with it for 100 pages or more, I couldn't have been less thrilled.
I don't know why young women would want to read about such shallow, tawdry lives.
Perhaps I just don't get it because I'm not "in the demo", but unless the point is to show how sad and empty the lives of the main characters are, it is entirely lost upon me.
Es war unterhaltsam und ließ sich leicht lesen. Trotzdem bin ich ein wenig hin- und hergerissen ob ich die Reihe weiterlesen soll oder nicht. Sie weicht einfach stark von der Serie ab und die Charaktere sind mir im Buch alle nicht so sympathisch. Diese Reihe hat auch noch soooo viele Bände!
Read this in one of my university classes. I remember not being overly fond of it. Probably because I am not rich. Or a teenager. Or a girl.
