https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/177730.Weekend_Wodehouse
This is a good sampler version of PG Wodehouse's work. For me he's mind-blowing brilliant, but where does one start? Or when does one end? In a way he sort of reminds me of Peter Greenaway, in that there is always more to the work then one sees on the surface. The thing is Wodehouse is super enjoyable. It's like eating too much candy. You have to stop at a certain point before he takes over your life. An addiction in action! Dip into this pool of a book. Toes first and eventually your whole body will be under water.
Wodehouse is always a delight. This one was too, especially since I took up a Wodehouse after a long time. I will recommend this to be the first Wodehouse anyone reads because otherwise, some or most of the stories will be repetitive. It is basically a compilation of few funnier stories from Wodehouse's other works. A lot of golf here. But all in all, it did get few chuckles from me.
So, yes; Wodehouse is my hero, and this superb collection of some of his finest work is the latest in a long line of Wodehouse’s books that I’ve read.
The only section – just a page long – which I found puzzling was something entitled Good News from Denmark, which no matter how hard I tried to read it (even aloud, in the hope that it would sound like garbled English), made no sense to me – it seemed to be Danish, and with no translations provided, so I’m still pretty much in the dark.
powerhouse wodehouse.even a single isolated sentence from some of his works fills the reader with a sense of warmth and well being.
The blackface and casual racism of the last story was a sour note to end on, but overall this was a fun, lighthearted read- classic Wodehouse.
My only gripe with this book was the large amount of golf talk. Multiple pages at a time describing games of golf was basically incomprehensible to me.
This is a very funny book based around the English upper classes.
But Sir P.G. Wodehouse was definitely aware of this flaw, because he wrote a short story entitled "The Defeat of a Critic" in which he stated: "A certain critic - for such men, I regret to say, do exist - made a very nasty remark about my latest novel that it contained 'all the old Wodehouse characters under different names'.
Pretty silly it will make him feel, I rather fancy."This is just some of the great laughs in the book.
However, it is a lovely collection because of its thoughtfully chosen works by Wodehouse that truly showcase the talent, nay, the comic genius of this writer.
Those who are already acquainted with Wodehouse's style will appreciate how this collection shows off Wodehouse's inherently humorous writing style so well (because, after all, his style is why we've always loved him).
Those who've never read a work by him will appreciate this because it points them in the right direction in appreciating the brilliance that is P.
Lovely , droll, dry English wit..great eccentric characters...some classic pieces from the Jeeves books as well as other stories.my favorite being "Goodbye to All Cats", in which a love-smitten swain spends a weekend at his animal-loving girlfriend's family home,veritably teeming with critters, and manages to accidentally offend,injure,insult or rile every four-footer in the house,thereby ensuing the demise of his romance...a hoot!
Hilarious. It's a sampler of Wodehouse's various comic novels, a lot of fun to dip into. I now wish to read all the Jeeves stories (most of which I must know by heart now, thanks to the stupendous "Jeeves and Wooster" series with Fry and Lauries in the very early nineties!), and the Blandings stuff looks very funny too.
Originally put out in the early 1940's, this is still the single best Wodehouse I've run into. A variety of short stories about Jeeves & Wooster, the Drones, and seemingly the whole of eccentric idle England, novelettes, excerpts, and all masterfully assembled to what may be the greatest humor collection going.
Although This book introduced me to the wonderful world of Wodehouse, I wish it wasn't structured in such a way. Only a part of the book contains short stories by Wodehouse and rest are filled with excerpts which are gibberish to a first time reader. Other that this what mildly turned me off was how Wodehouse uses love as a very reccurent theme.
First publishedi n 1939, the only thing which distinguishes it from later Wodehouse books is the reference to telegraphs and a couple of early automobile comments. He had nailed his style by then, and this collection of early shorts (and snippets from longer works) is as solid as any of his later stories.
I am a great fan of Wodehouse's Jeeves, but I confess this rather jumbled selection of extracts and short stories, as well as book dedications, left me cold. I should probably make do with the Jeeves omnibuses instead!
So funny.
When a fan compiles the best parts of prose across time and characters, the outcome is a hilarious time over a weekend. Just awesome
A compilation from some of PG Wodehouse's best works ( short stories, novels and nonfiction writing ). Must read for every PGW fan.
Short vignettes, very diverting for graduate students. I can almost smell the kippers and hair oil.
a wonderful sampler of work - I can't wait to dive into the novels!
Loved, loved, loved it. Laughed out loud on buses. Husband reading it and making him read out all the bits he laughs out loud at which his annoying him loads, but that's my job.
Wodehouse is an addiction... :)
The master speaks.
A hilarious Wodehouse collection with a bit of everything.
Thank you to Andrew for passing this along...
Need one say anything about this therapeutic wonder?
A great bedside book.
Ironic that I finished a British work on Independence Day. Just goes to show there's no hard feelings, I guess. This is not a good introduction to Wodehouse, but if you've read enough of his stuff to be familiar with his regular characters, this is an amusing compilation. For the uninitiated, Wodehouse is a lighthearted comedic/satirical author from the 1930s and 40s.
Inimitable Wodehouse at his best
Funny, by Jeeves!
If you liked Jeeves & Wooster, you'll enjoy this collection of short stories. Nice to just pick up before turning in for the night! Can't get enough of P.G.
