https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961520.Yuganta
He must set to work on the constructive task of finding the intention of Parliament and he must do this not only from the language of the Statute, but also from a consideration of the social conditions which gave rise to it, and the mischief it was intended to remedy.
I gave this book 5 stars because Karve stuck to what the Mahabharata had to offer.
The essay on Draupadi has to be my favorite of all because of Karve's obvious reverence for the character.
And since this book is a character study, it does not flow in the form of a story but more like a heavy discussion.
I wish I had read this before we started the trip !This book is new set of glasses which are tinted with a hard and unflinching shade with which Irawati Karwe examines the Mahabharata For ease of summing up, some of the major areas the author touches upon are :1.The Futility Of Human Effort : We struggle all our lives to build name and fame or in corporate lingo, to leave our mark on the sands of time.
Irawati Karve strips the great epic of its embellishments and additions to lay out before us this stark, thought-provoking. character study. This picture forces us to expand our views on the epic and the people tossed about in it. Full review to follow.Edit: Irawati Karve deserves much less credit than I initially attributed to her. Most of the radical ideas were in play in Randamoozham and MT does not even try to sensationalize them as Karve later did.
It took me a paltry 3 days to read it but the things I have learnt from it will stay with me forever.The book is a critical analysis of the characters of Jaya(Mahabharatha).
There are many points in the book which can be contested and debated.The author highlights the differences between the literary style of Mahabharatha and Ramayana.
She argues the literary style of Mahabharatha ,though not flowery and unpolished ,is much more intellectually profound.
The author states that Mahabharatha marked the end of the traditional Sanskrit literature, end of an epoch.
Others are mostly critical and explanatory literature which derives from this original text.
অনুবাদকের উপর আমি কিঞচিত নাখোশ। এমনিতে বেশ ভালো অনুবাদ, কিনতু বাংলা ভাষায় পরপর তিন বাকয যখন - 'সিরাজ ভাই যুদধে জিতেছিলো। তাকে কাসেম ভাই সাহাযয করেছিলো। এই যুদধে পরচুর কষয়কষতি হয়েছিলো' - এইভাবে লেখা হয়, আমার পিততি জবলে যায়। বাংলা ত এতটাও আড়ষট না যে এভাবেই আগাইতে হবে বাকযের পর বাকযে। তাছাড়া, 'সে মারা গিয়েছিলো, এই নয়, সে সবরগারোহণ করেছিলো' - এইখানে এই নয় অরথ যে 'এটা নয়' না, এর অরথ যে '(শুধু) এই-ই নয়', এটা বোঝার পর, অনুবাদকের সাথে পরিচয় থাকলে আমি তার সাথে কথা বলা বনধ করে দিতাম।আরেকটা বযাপার হচছে তথয
অনুবাদকের উপর আমি কিঞ্চিত নাখোশ। এম্নিতে বেশ ভালো অনুবাদ, কিন্তু বাংলা ভাষায় পরপর তিন বাক্য যখন - 'স
4.5Interesting dissection of Mahabharata from a totally different angle, structured into essays for individual characters.Leaves you gasping for more with so many new questions :-Why didn't Bhishma renounce when he had so many apt opportunities?-What forced Pandu to renounce into forest at such a young age leaving the kingdom behind?-Why Arjun and Krishna had to burn the Khandavaprastha forest *so mercilessly*?-Have you noticed the contrast between Drupada-Drona story vs Krishna-Sudama story, both based on friendship?-Many episodes are recounted, in a manner clearly showing many inconsistencies in Vyasa's epic!
To my understanding this book is a critical analysis of the characters of the great Indian epic, 'Mahabharata' the true events of which were said to have taken place around 1000 BC.
I had read Mahabharata as a child, the abridged version, as well as many stories from it detailed in various other books.
I had also imbibed the great Hindu puranas and epics in my childhood as I was fortunate enough to have parents and grand parents who loved to tell stories, and inculcate the reading habit in me.
I had never taken Mahabharata seriously, to me it was a fantastic tale which might not have happened.
This book is worth a re-read.
পরাচীন ভারতীয় মহাকাবয মহাভারত নিয়ে পড়া এখন পরযনত সেরা অযানালাইসিসের বই। এত অসাধারন যে মহাভারত নিয়ে নতুন করে ভাবতে বসতে হয়। এর ভিতরের ডেপথ, এর ইউনিভারসাল অযাপিল, এর চরিতর গুলোর কমপলেকসসিটি, সেগুলোর সতযের কত কাছাকাছি - এই সকল লিটারেরি লকষন গুলো দেখে একে সকল পরাচীন মহাকাবযের চেয়ে শরেষঠ বলে মনে হয়, এমনকি ইলিয়াডের চেয়েও।  ইরাবতী কারভে মহাভারতের সাহিতযমূলয নিয়ে সচেতন, তিনি চরিতর বিশলেষন করার সময় এটাকে সাহিতয বলেই বিবেচনা করেছেন, কিনতু এর ভযালুজ, সে সময়কার ( মহাভারত লিখার) জটিলতা, সমাজ ও যুদধের বিভিনন
প্রাচীন ভারতীয় মহাকাব্য মহাভারত নিয়ে পড়া এখন পর্যন্ত সেরা অ্যানালাইসিসের বই। এত অসাধারন যে মহাভারত ন
What a brilliant work of analysis. Irawati Karve studies the key characters of the Mahabharata, strips them of their mythical powers and presents them as ordinary humans struggling and grappling with issues that are as alive today as they were 3000 years back. Pick of the lot for me was be the essay on Bhishma! Spellbinding.
Every little flaw of every character in The Mahabharatha is pointed out and I haven't come across such a brilliant piece of work in this genre before. If you're a fan of Indian myth (esp. The Mahabharatha) then I suggest you go for this after you read the epic.
How did we accept the dreamy escapism of bhakti or blind hero worship after having faced and thought undauntingly of the hard realities of life?
How did the people who used to eat all meats, including beef, find satisfaction in ritually drinking the urine and eating the dung of the cow, and calling this quadruped their mother?It is irreverent.
But it is refreshing to say the least.She has reviewed traditional heros like Bhishma and Karna and found them wanting.
She has understood the women as real people and pointed out their failings with academic detailing.But most of all she makes us see the End of a Yuga, Yuganta.
But more importantly, the examination of various characters, their motivations and actions, belief systems and relationships with each other, as well as the societal frameworks of class, makes up most of the book.
Krishna, in the original work, is portrayed as an astute statesman with his own self interest in play, as opposed to a God. His relationship with Arjuna is as a friend and equal.
All these aspects have been wonderfully studied by the author.Gandhari and Kunti rarely get the amount of attention in retellings and in this respect, this book is very different.
The last chapter - 'the end of yuga' seems to mean at least two things here.
Yuganta is an effort to delve under the interpolations that have become part of the structure over the years and to get to the actual crux of the story that it was.And this is the "Eternally human' vivid depiction of the life and ethos of a whole era and class."It is also an attempt to bring closure to many episodes that readers have always wished had a different ending.My personal favourite is the imagined exchange between Bhima and Draupadi.I loved the humanization of the characters and the attempt to trace the beginning of the deification of so many of the personas in the epic, especially the part that focuses on Krishna from the epic and Krishna the God - who seems to be a later avatar.I highly recommend this book for its interpretations and grounding in critical readings of multiple versions of the Mahabharata.
'Yuganta : The End Of An Epoch' by Irawati Karve is a book which studies the pivotal events and characters of the Mahabharata with a logical , analytical and critical point of view .
Mrs. Karve has unveiled each of the main character's both virtues and vices [in between these two vices are more because the criticism in the book is mainly negative] with such an ease that the complex characters of the epic becomes easy to understand for any reader .
If one reads 'Yuganta' , the character will never be the same for the reader if he/she reads further point of views and versions of the epic .
But not Irawati.
She finds him 'Ambitious' , even a little cold-blooded.' But she sums him up aptly as, 'He did not merely speak the Gita; he lived it.'Her unemotional perspectives on Bhishma, Gandhari ,Kunti and Karna are equally original and path-breaking.My only grudge is with her judgment on Draupadi.
She finds Draupadi's verbal battle at the dice game improper, thoughtless and smug.
Draupadi won a lopsided battle of violence by resorting to cool logic, a woman who articulated philosophically relevant questions that nobody could answer then or now.
Beyond that, Irawati is as precise, unerring and consistent as Arjuna's arrows.
Loved the book. I am surprised that it isn't better known. Irawati Karve brings to life (as opposed to caricature) the characters of the Mahabharata and relates their actions to social mores of that period. This is a must read for everyone who is interested in the epics and in Indian cultural history. Good thing that she wrote this in the 1960s. Not sure the Hindutva brigade would have allowed this to be published in today's era.
The book is written in the form of various long essays most of which are critiques of different characters such as Gandhari, Kunti, Draupadi, Karna and Krishna while a few dwell on relationships such as the ones between Yudhistira & Vidura or Ashwhathama & Drona.
The paradoxical transformation, by the bhakti cult, of Krishna from a human being to a God.The highlight of this book is the final chapter which details the changes from the original version of the Mahabharata to the current or popular version of the epic.
Lovely collection of essays on the Mahabharata
It makes a systematic and scientific study of the earliest version of the epic available today, and the knowledge of the cultural history, and attempts to isolate the facts (as presented in the original version of the book) from the interpolations added later through the centuries.
Through these facts she proposes Mahabharata as a creditable history of events that took place almost 3000 years ago - a story of mortals devoid of any magical or divine influences.The book includes nine thought provoking essays, each of these a study of one (or more) of the key characters of the epic.
Of course I liked also the analysis of the characters, above all the female characters, though at the beginning of the book it was a little bit hard to understand why Karve wanted to humanize the characters (above all Krishna!) seen that they are divine and a lot of things about them can be understood only if we let them their "divinity".
But going on with the reading I started to appreciate also these parts and I understood a lot of things.It was really worth to be read and I advise this book to who has already read Mahabharata or knows the stories and the characters.
i would not critique this work instead i will merely mention my favorite parts, i.e., Karna, Kunti, Draupadi, Gaandhari, the Palace of Maya, and many more.
i have always been vocal about my preference of Karna to Arjuna, and Draupadi often remains a mystery to me even now, but Kunti and Gaandhari were the real scene-stealers for me in this seminal work...
i was hoping that the book will give me a different point of view of Mahabharata and open my eyes to the underlying story...i am happy to say that the book did that amply and beyond.
it tore into the current text of Mahabharata and separated the original from later additions, and came up with insightful essays on each of the central characters of Mahabharata.the writing is crisp and the analysis is crystal.
It wud hv been great if she cud hv supported her views with cross references from other texts which contradict the Mahabharata as we know it.Highly recommended to all.
That Mahabharata is a wonderful work of literature needs no mention and Irawati Karve made reading Mahabharata an out-of-the-world experience.
My only knowledge of Mahabharata was from the television soap that aired in Doordarshan decades ago and then the only attraction was the phantasmagorical scenes of weapons being suspended in mid-air emanating bright rays, of demons raiding jungles, of the macho Bhima and his mighty blows.
The unearthly events were narrowed down to a plausible one and Irawati Karve dissects the prominent persona of Mahabharata and justifies their behaviour to the situations they were faced with.
Rightfully said, Yuganta is a critical take on one of the greatest epics of our times and Irawati Karve only emerges glorious mesmerizing the reader.
The last few pages are a big bundle of nonsense, as she rushes through with just judgments without providing any proper evidence to her claims - what should have been an analysis ends up as just her personal opinions and claims without proofs.
This is apparent now, almost 40 years after her book has been published, because new evidences have been unearthed, which prove that her claims regarding the societies of those times, their 'Aryan' origins are wrong.
Frankly, I was advised against reading this book.
I only ended up spoiling my good opinion of Irawati Karve.
May be I should have not read the book, and let my good opinion of her remain.
The author discusses the poem as history, and how it becomes an unwitting repository for later stories, religious accretions and moral softness..seems to be an image of a decline of a hard nosed clear thinking warrior people to a people ready to give way to escapism and soft sentimentalism.
Caste and family loyalty and sacrifices to rather absent and indifferent gods make up the background, with scheming Brahmins and self serving princelings with ridiculous ideas of honour in the foreground.
The author dismisses all talk of gods Impregnating the women and points out that even queens had no choice from being farmed out to brothers and Brahmins to ensure the male line.
কলাস নাইনে কি টেনে থাকতে মহাভারত পড়া। সেসময় মিথোলজির পরতি আগরহ তৈরি হচছিল সবে। মহাভারতকে এই মিথোলজি ভেবেই পড়া শুরু করি। পানডব-কৌরব যুদধ মুখয কাহিনী হলেও এর ভেতর ছিল আরো গলপ, আরো অনেক ইতিহাস, অনেক পরতিশোধের, ভালবাসার, রাজনীতির গলপ। মুগধ হয়ে পড়েছি। পড়ার সময় মনে হত এসব হয়তো হয়েছে কোন একসময়। কিনতু কখনই একে সেভাবে বিশলেষন করে পড়া হয় নি যা "যুগানত"তে লেখিকা করেছেন। মহাভারত নিয়ে এরকম অযানাইলিসস আর কেউ করেছেন কিনা আমার জানা নেই। ইরাবতী কারবে নৃতততবের মানুষ হওয়ার দরুণ তিনি একে একজন নৃবিজঞানীর চোখে দেখেছে
ক্লাস নাইনে কি টেনে থাকতে মহাভারত পড়া। সেসময় মিথোলজির প্রতি আগ্রহ তৈরি হচ্ছিল সবে। মহাভারতকে এই মিথোলজি ভেবেই পড়া শুরু করি। পান্ডব-কৌরব যুদ্ধ মুখ্য কাহিনী হলেও এর ভেতর ছিল আরো গল্প, আরো অনেক ইতিহাস, অনেক প্রতিশোধের, ভালবাসার, রাজনীতির গল্প। মুগ্ধ হয়ে পড়েছি। পড়ার সময় মনে হত এসব হয়তো হয়েছে কোন একসময়। কিন্তু কখনই একে সেভাবে বিশ্লেষন করে পড়া হয় নি যা "যুগান্ত"তে লেখিকা করেছেন। মহাভারত নিয়ে এরকম অ্যানাইলিসস আর কেউ করেছেন কিনা আমার জানা নেই। ইরাবতী কারবে নৃতত্ত্বের মানুষ হওয়ার দরুণ তিনি একে একজন নৃবিজ্ঞানীর চোখে দেখেছেন, সর্বপোরি তিনি একে ইতিহাস হিসেবে না দেখে সাহিত্য হিসেবে পর্যালোচনা করেছেন। কিছু কিছু ক্ষেত্রে এমন সব প্রশ্ন স্টেট্মেন্ট দিয়েছেন, যা কন্ট্রোভারসির সূচনা করে। প্রতিটা চরিত্রকে ভেংগে ভেংগে একদম অন্য দৃষ্টিকোণ থেকে দেখতে আপনাকে সাহায্য করবে যুগান্ত। মহাভারতকে বাস্তব মনে হয় কারণ এর প্রতিটা চরিত্র শুধুমাত্র ভাল বা খারাপের মধ্যে নির্ভর না। এর বাইরেও অনেক জটিল অনূভুতি, ক্রাইসিসের মধ্য দিয়ে তারা এগিয়ে চলে। যেমন কর্ণর কথাই চিন্তা করা যাক, কুন্তীর কুমারী বয়সের কৌতূহলের কারণে সে ক্ষত্রিয় হয়েও সূতপূত্র হিসেবে বড় হয়। সে ক্ষত্রিয় এই পদবী জাস্টিফাই করার জন্য ক্রমাগত একধরণের অস্তিত্ব সংকটের মধ্য দিয়ে যেতে থাকে। আমার জায়গা কোথায়?
A good attempt from the author to present his views on Mahabharatha from an anthropological point of view. Some interesting thoughts were presented which elevated my interest to explore more. After reading a few books written on Mahabharata,namely Jaya: An Illustrated Retelling of the Mahabharata, Ajaya: Roll of the Dice, The Great Indian Novel and രണടാമൂഴം Randamoozham...I was surprised to read it from a whole new point of view. One low point I observed was repeat of tales when discussion of a
A good attempt from the author to present his views on Mahabharatha from an anthropological point of view.
Some interesting thoughts were presented which elevated my interest to explore more.
After reading a few books written on Mahabharata,namely Jaya: An Illustrated Retelling of the Mahabharata, Ajaya: Roll of the Dice, The Great Indian Novel and രണ്ടാമൂഴം Randamoozham...I was surprised to read it from a whole new point of view.
One low point I observed was repeat of tales when discussion of a new character came up, and this was more than once.
Some new light showered on characters of Vidura, Kunti and Draupadi was great.
The Mahabharata is an Indian classic far more interesting and complex than any other classical indian work and far surpasses the Ramayana. The Ramayana has become a spiritual text with social and cultural implications.The Mahabharata has many many facets to how one interprets it. part history, part mythology, always moving and always changing, spiritual or devotional, sociocultural or political, it gives us much food for thought.Irawati Karve has taken a political approach in the of sociocultural context and this is a fascinating read! Highly recommended to readers of Classical Indian literature and especially of the Mahabharata.
Unputdownable. A must read for all. The thorough character dissection of the five protagonist of Mahabharata & a way of vedic life, as portrayed by Karve is one of its kind.
Such a practical logical take on Mahabharata. This book is for keeps and I anticipate reading it multiple times.
