https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/511403.The_Lord
(As an aside, the author was a noted theologian who taught both John Paul II and Benedict XVI)This book is not a Catholic book but one for all Christians to read if you both love Jesus Christ and have a deep interest in understanding the New Testament from a review of Jesus' perspective as taught by a great theologian.It is not a book that you can sit down and read in a couple of days and you must allow a couple of weeks because you will need to reflect on the chapters (which are short ) and perhaps have a copy of the New Testament handy to review either before or after reading particular chapters.I did not find the writing style difficult but it was written by both a great thinker and one who loves the Lord (I use the present tense even though the author is now deceased but I know he is in the presence of God and deeply in love with Jesus).There were moments of great epiphany for me as I read this book.
Still reading this book, which is really a series of meditations on the Gospels.
Guardini's meditations are wonderfully illuminating and quite good start points for reflection and contemplation.
Dorothy Day mentioned Guardini quite a bit, he was an author from whose work she seemed to draw sustenance, which is one reason I began reading him.
The second reason is that our former parish priest recommended a number of spiritual books to us at one time and I found those I knew were favorites of mine and those I didn't know but have since read to be informative, and often good material for reflection and prayer.
This has been on my 'currently-reading' shelf for some time now, only I haven't picked it up.
I do plan to get back to it sometime...Started to read this once before (back in 2009) and didn't get too far.
However, as we are going into Holy Week, I'm starting in the middle with topics relevant to Christ's last days.
Chapter X "Mysterium Fidei" (Mystery of Faith) was the first one I read although, time permitting I will go even further back and read the chapters on Judas, Judgment, The Foot-washing and the Destruction of Jerusalem.
A collection of many meditations from the different parts of the life of Jesus.
This book is written about eternity to eternity.
Well written and several important ideas of the life of Jesus.
I came to know about Romano Guardini from Pope Emeritus Benedict XVI writings on of his writings I read, he is quoting him as an authentic writer and I found out from this book what he was talking about.This book is well to read like everyday meditation or else read a part of it according to the season and it will help more.
I will read it again and again.Highly Recommended
It opened up the Book of the Revelation in such a way that moved the symbolism into how Christians live and strive to know Christ better.
It left me knowing more about Christ, with a sense of excitement and inspiration about the Church and being Christian, and more insight into the eternal.That's a lot to ask but I now understand why this book was considered personally important into forming both Pope Benedict's and Pope Francis's Catholic foundations.
This is one of those books you don't want to end. Until reading Romano Guardini's Life of Christ, Fulton Sheen's was my favorite~ I'd have to say they are tied for first place on my list. I know I will find myself going back to this one.
A fascinating historical and exegetical criticism of the life of Christ that is full of material to ponder for a lifetime.

Included in the "Catholicism Explained/Theology" section of Fr. John McCloskey's 100-book Catholic Lifetime Reading Plan.Guardini obviously knos what he is talking about. For the most part, I had trouble following him, not because he was unorganized but because he was above the level at hich I am thinking. And yet he was not academic. He sounds like a very down-to-Earth person with higher thoughts. Nevertheless, I followed some and puled some gems from it.
I read this quite a while ago. This time I got the audiobook version and am so glad I did. The narration was very good and helped me to use time to go through this book in Advent. Really this book is quite an amazing accomplishment with so many insights, yet he doesn't force his opinion on you.
Père Wilhelm Van Scoten gave le this book to read in preparation for my Easter eve Batism at Saint Germain d'Auxerrois 1974. I would have liked a whole cathecism. !he aksi gave le 7 storey moutain by Thomas Merton.
I have read this before, but am getting an incredible amount more out of my re-read. Chalk it up to live experience, and Catholic Christian life experience. Rock on.
Such a wonderful book!
Far from the dry theology I though it might be, these loving meditations on the life of Christ are inspiring and thought provoking.
I love this book. This book inspired Henri Nouwen to begin writing.
A slow read, but a great one. Each chapter has so much for you to reflect upon.
The Lord is a beautifully written and accessible book about Jesus of Nazareth. It steps through his life and times in historical context as well as commenting on the meaning behind his physical and spiritual existence. It counters a solely historical impulse to define Jesus as just an historical figure and explains the context that goes beyond history. An excellent resource for anyone who is interested in learning more about Jesus, whether they are Christian or not.
This is a must read for any Christian. His insights are amazing and profound. Guardini presents Christ is such a pure way. He tears away all the labels and parameters research and romanticism have placed upon him. Instead he presents him as the Scriptures have presented him: as the incredible Being he is.
A lot to digest, but full of gold!
A masterpiece...
A Supernatural journey through,with, and in Jesus Christ.

I've heard it said that knowing about Jesus is not enough.
I need to know Jesus.
But then he surprised me with a section on the Book of Revelation.
That section confused me just as the book in the Bible does.
Each chapter is great for prayerful reflection.
I started this on Ash Wednesday and finished it a few days before Easter.
I read about 3 chapters a day and that was too much.
It's not a hard read but it gives a lot to reflect on.
I'm going to reread the section on the risen Lord during this Easter season.
Very deep book. I had to read it slowly. Some of the things he says about the Blessed Mother are kind of irritating...well his attitude about it is annoying. Other than that, it's a great book.
