https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152381.Mary_Poppins_in_the_Park
P.L. Travers warns up front that this volume is not the fourth in the series in the sense of being the further adventures of the magical nanny Mary Poppins.
Some of the adventures are delightful — “The Children in the Story,” which will especially resonate with adults — while some are simply enjoyable enough.While not quite in the same league as the 1934 debut Mary Poppins or 1943’s Mary Poppins Opens the Door, readers — whether children or adults — will be happy to have Mary Poppins in the Park so as to once again visit with the Banks children and most famous nanny of all time.
It's strange to say but this is my favorite Mary Poppins books that I've read.
The adventures were my favorite parts of the previous 3 books, so that's probably why I enjoyed this book more than the others.
It mentions characters from the second and third book, so you might not recognize them, but you get more adventures with the kids and Mary Poppins.
The formula isn't the exact same as you're introduced to new characters and there are different stories for each book, but if you didn't like the first book then book 2 and 3 will probably not be you cup of tea.
So, it seems that these are the stories that didn't fit in the trilogy. Well, I'm certainly glad they found their way into print under Travers' watch, instead of being found in a drawer and published posthumously... because whenever that happens the stories aren't actually ready for publication. These were marvelous. Perhaps made even more so by the fact that it's the first day of this year that I can sit outside and read... and so I did, and read this book in one afternoon. Lovely.
I know what you’re thinking...just another children’s book, can’t be worth reading, so why bother about the review?
Well come on, after all they are just children, really now...they don’t know very much; can’t understand what's important, so what they read isn’t worthwhile either, is it?When I first started these Mary Poppins books I was reading for nostalgia* and also (I confess) escapism!
If so, then it’s my wish that my life could become such a silly story...*Having enjoyed these books so much as a child and again with my own children when they were young.
But it's what makes her such an enduring character, and the child characters in these books (namely, Jane and Michael Banks) absolutely adore her for all of these things, and for all of the magical adventures she takes them on.
It's not even my favorite Travers novel - that spot is reserved for Mary Poppins Comes Back - but every single one of these is just fantastic and I wholeheartedly recommend that if you still have that inner child within, or even if you think you've lost it and want to discover it again, pick up these wonderful stories and read them to your hearts content.
Mary Poppins in the Park (Mary Poppins #4), P.L. Travers, Mary Shepard (Illustrator)
Mary Poppins is back again with Jane and Michael for adventures in the Park!
An ordinary outing in the park turns into a magical and extraordinary adventure when you go for a walk with Mary Poppins.
I love how Mary Poppins can be stern with the children, but is also kind and loving.
I love all the Mary Poppins books!I wish that the book had more of a cohesive plot line, but they are individual snippets, more like separate short stories, without any real connection between chapters.
The old-fashioned charm is palpable, and Mary Poppins can do no wrong.
I borrowed Mary Poppins in the Park from my University's library, as I found out recently that they have quite an extensive collection of children's literature.
This is the fourth book in the series, and as I very much enjoyed reading the first three, I was looking forward to picking it up.
There are many talking animals and characters from books coming to life here, which I would have enjoyed as a child, but found rather cringeworthy to read as an adult.
Mary Poppins in the Park is sadly rather lacking, and a bit silly on the whole.

Didn't like this one either..
To be fair that was the least boring book in the series so I didn't hate it that much ..I liked that there wasn't a sudden arrival and departure in this, the events of this book set place in between the second and the third book so that was refreshing, it did have some magical adventures and Mary Poppins was nice-ish through out the book .. my favorite story was the last one about Halloween, I think the rest of the books will be extremely short so I will finish them fast and be done with it
Read for the PopSugar Reading Challenge Mary Poppins is a total bitch in the books! No wonder P.L. Travers hated Walt's version on the big screen...
Each book in the Mary Poppins series is imaginative, but they get less interesting as they go along. It's still extremely readable, of course, but the freshness has lost its shine.
It is obvious they are set in a world that is a bit outside the world we are living in (the children have a nanny, their parents don't interact with them in the way that children's parent's today do, they have a maid, etc...) but still, as a story set in a fantasy world of sorts, (the things Mary can do are obviously quite fantastic...) it holds up quite well and is good fun and is definitely would make any child long for Mary as their babysitter/nanny.If you haven't read the books, and have only seen the film, do read them.
This book in the series is even less of a timeline, less of a glimpse at the Banks family, and more of a six short story collection of unique adventures in the park with Mary Poppins.
On Halloween night, the eve of Mary Poppins' birthday, shadows escape for a party in the park.
Jane and Michael always have each other, as well as another small clue, to assure that such magic really did take place.I know my kids would probably enjoy these, but I read them to myself.
This book was kind of different from the others, at first I was confused because the beggining didn't match the ending of the third book, but then I realized that they where all completely separate stories that where meant to take place sometime between the past three books. I felt that many of them where more fables than anything else, with their own little moral at the end. But not all of them. My favorite was the one about the shadows in the park and Mary poppin's birthday.
Enchanting and highly entertaining - of course. No words to capture the magic Pamela Travis manages to wave into everyday moments of children playing in the park while Mary P watches over them, sniffs AND never explains anything!
Crying? No. Sobbing? Yes.
Such a good classic book!
Mary Poppins in the Park is not quite a continuation of the series, but rather stories that could have taken place "during any of the three visits" from the fantastical nanny in prior books.
Several tales in this installment were as charming and whimsical as ever, such as "The Children in the Story," which confirmed that Mary Poppins was/is a nanny to other children besides the Banks (gasp!).
But I did love an appearance by Bert--wish he was in the books more.
Overall, I enjoyed Mary Poppins In the Park, though it felt uneven in comparison to the previous three books.
As the author points out, “She cannot for ever arrive and depart.” Instead these are adventures that took place on one of her three visits and all of them revolve round time spent in the Park opposite the house on a Cherry Tree Lane.
They feature a cast of characters that have been introduced in the previous books and for whom the reader may find they have a growing affection - Mrs Corry, the Bird Woman etc.
There are some repeated themes - one of Mary Poppin’s moral stories, meeting another relative and a night time party etc - but the stories are still charming and show case PL Travers’ wonderful imagination again.
I didn’t like this one as much as the original. I also find the chapters so extremely long (too long to read at once), so it’s hard to find a stopping point when reading out loud. That said, I really appreciate how interesting and imaginative all her books are. I won’t ever read my daughter a kids book that isn’t deep enough to carry the adult along too.
My daughter and I love to read these. She's getting to know all of the characters and we then recur in another of the books, she gets very excited. She loves it when she figures out details before the story explains them. What joyful imagination these books contain.
https://ioamoilibrieleserietv.blogspo...
another very enjoyable read and quite funny in places
It took me a little longer to finish this book than the previous books, but it was just as full of mischief and wonder as the others.
Additional stories that actually happened during one of Mary Poppins stays with the Banks children. It was fun, but I enjoyed the main books better.
Fantastic!!
3.5. Listening to Travers's stories in British voices---heavenly.
This fourth novel in the P.L. Travers series is basically another volume of random, unconnected adventures of Jane and Michael Banks and their nasty, unpleasant (but *magical*!) nanny, Mary Poppins.
Poor, dotty woman.I really don't think the series needed to continue this long, but for some reason Ms. Travers felt the need to publish a few more of her bizarre chapters.
Mary Poppins herself is ever so slightly more tolerable in this final book of the series, but in general I'm just kind of relieved it's all over.
