https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32942027-hardcore-twenty-four
About five years too late on that trend (in my opinion) and five times too ridiculous.
no character development, no growth, same old same old, ping pong between Ranger and Morelli and add a Diesel just for kicks.
make 25 the last one and make your fan base not want to roll their eyes any harder.Before Reading:This will be a library book for me.
I just don't want another book of cars blowing up, Stephanie getting kidnapped but saving the day in the last two chapters, and all the other repeating eccentricities that are so overplayed they're no longer eccentric.
"It's filled with raccoons. They were eating cereal and stuff and rearranging the furniture."These books are like a movie-snack: popcorn, candy, you get the idea. I laugh and smile every time that I read one.
All you do is change out the secondary characters, have a loose plot based on one scary skip and good to go.The up side in this book, depending on which type of reader you are, is that it seems a little sex-positive, in that Steph is mostly in a relationship with Morelli but still makes time for Ranger.
But maybe by then the kids will be school-aged and she'll be ready for something more substantial.Oh, and I was right--two of the books were chewed on by the puppy, but my sweet cousin replaced them.
A fast, light, and fun read.
She’s fearless and independent, with a loyal sidekick and protective men in her life.
She questions her relationship status at times but is confident she is exactly where she needs and wants to be at this point in her life.
Not so for Stephanie, she’s living the good life.
So many reviewers want Stephanie to mature and make a decision about the men in her life, but I don’t mind her as she is.
Reading about her adventures is a nice escape from the responsibilities of a mature adult life.
I go into it expecting a fast, fun, breezy read and I’m never disappointed.
In my opinion, Evanovich has become that friend.I have loved Stephanie Plum and her misadventures for well over a decade, but I am sick and tired of paying to read the same jokes year after year, and in some cases, the same plots.
Plus, I lose more and more respect for Stephanie with every book.Recently I read the Charley Davidson Grave series by Darynda Jones, and I saw what the Plum books could be as far as character development if Evanovich had the balls to break from a routine that’s become more about the cash than the characters.Unfortunate animal carcasses.
Oh, the usual Stephanie Plum book. Half the book is her and Lula eating enough junk food to feed a college frat house and the other half is her chasing after some dumbass criminals and totaling cars - often Ranger's cars... “Bad news,” I said. “It’s about your Lexus.” “One of my patrol cars drove by it an hour ago and said it was being circled by vultures.” “There was an unfortunate incident with a dead groundhog.” “I didn’t see that one coming,” Ranger said. “How bad is it?” “There are vultures
“It’s about your Lexus.” “One of my patrol cars drove by it an hour ago and said it was being circled by vultures.” “There was an unfortunate incident with a dead groundhog.” “I didn’t see that one coming,” Ranger said.
“How bad is it?” “There are vultures circling.
Now, I can start doing my usual bitching about how Stephanie is cheating on Morelli with Ranger, which she totally is, and how we would all freak out and not read the series if Morelli had a side-chick, but what's the point?
I'm like the old junkie who's chasing that first high...
Most of my friends in various Stephanie Plum groups admit they stopped reading the series somewhere around book 12.
I thought that was short sighted and I still had a lot of fun reading about Stephanie's antics even though Janet never makes any real headway in a permanent love interest direction.
I have to admit book 24 has caused me to lose all respect for Stephanie.
Not a description I ever thought would come attached to a Plum book.
I wish I never preordered it.
Wish I never read it.
And most of all, I wish she never wrote it.
3 starsThere are still some laugh out lines in this continuing story of Stephanie Plum, bail bond enforcement agent. But the formula is getting worn out. She is still seeing Ranger and Morelli, but can't decide between the two. There is a new man in her life, Diesel, who comes and goes as he pleases, sleeping in her apartment periodically, even though he doesn't have a key. If you are a fan of this series, you will probably like it. Lula, Stephanie's friend and assistant is still present, with outlandish clothes, and Stephanie's Grandma is still as wacky as ever.
3.5 starsIn this 24th book in the 'Stephanie Plum' series, the Trenton, New Jersey bounty hunter becomes the target of zombies.
The book can be read as a standalone.*****When grave robber Simon Diggery doesn't show up for his court date, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum has to track him down.
Simon - fearing the zombies - says he'll let Stephanie take him to jail IF the bounty hunter will look after Ethel.
George HamiltonFor pet fun, Morelli's dog Bob is on hand, as is Stephanie's hamster Rex - who has a sleepover at Ranger's apartment - along with Stephanie (uh-oh!).Some of the later books in this series have been disappointing, but this is a good one.
Not only is Stephanie still trying to decide whose bed she prefers - that of her supposedly main squeeze, detective Joe Morelli, and studly security consultant Ranger - she adds yet another irresistable guy to her wishy washy list with the return of Diesel (a character who's made appearances in other books).That she remains fixated on getting laid (or not) is bothersome, but in previous books the one-liners have pulled me out of my funk sufficiently to say that for the most part, I enjoyed them.
Whichever of the guys - Morelli, Diesel or Ranger - ends up with Stephanie deserves what he gets, and I really don't care to who gets the spoils.
Binge read it in 5 hours! I so needed the laughs from this book and there are plenty of them. Lulu had me rolling. Grandma Mazur is more hysterical than ever. Joe is still overworked but sexy. Ranger is still mysterious but sexy. Diesel is, wow, what can I say? I love Diesel!! Stephanie has her hands full for sure! Can't wait for #25. Looks like it's gonna be another great one!
I had been missing Stephanie Plum, and Hardcore Twenty-Four was our perfect reunion. Stephanie's off-beat family and healthy list of suitors always makes reading Janet Evanovich's stories entirely enjoyable.The only bad thing about finishing this book today is that now I have to pretend to be patient while I wait for book #25.
In the latest book in this series, bounty hunter Stephanie Plum and her sidekick Lula are knee deep in snakes and zombies.
I read this series because it is the closest I get to slapstick comedy.
The scenes and conversations are outrageously funny.
Stephanie's grandma, who has to be 90 years old, meets a new boyfriend online and his picture shows him to look exactly like George Hamilton.
As usual, Stephanie goes through cars as fast as Lula goes through donuts.
Well, neither can I.If you are a fan of this series, you'll like this one too.
It's classic Plum.
Although I still love Stephanie and her gang at this point it is sometimes more blind loyalty than anything else.
I loved having Diesel back but what was happening with Lizzy?
The destruction of Ranger’s cars was right on point.
No wonder they had to call in Diesel.
I love the new puppy in Grandma Mazur’s life.
I can see some excellent fun in the future if he grows to be bigger than Bob. Hope they don’t forget him like other things dropped that would have been interesting for overall plot development.
Like, what happened to Steph’s mom going back to school?
I would love to see what would happen if her ever present meals disappeared.
And when the heads begin turning up minus brains, Stephanie’s colleague Lula is convinced that zombies are to blame.
After all, didn't their last skip, grave robber Simon Diggery say he was sure he'd opened a zombie portal in the Morley Street cemetery?As Stephanie tracks down her FTAs, things keep happening to make the zombie explanation look more and more likely, except that zombies don't exist, do they?
Lula, as always, entertains with her money-making schemes, and Stephanie manages to destroy or otherwise render unusable, three vehicles (not all her fault), one via an exploding groundhog.
Most of the characters are stereotypes of one type or another, but Lula started to cross a line in a lot of ways.
The lame excuse of a drug that caused zombie-like behaviors was...lame, and was a really transparent way to have fun with zombies for 95% of the book without actually putting zombies into Stephanie's universe.And I don't know what the hell Evanovich thought she was doing with the character of Zero.
17:"He's twenty-nine years old, five feet two inches, and he lists his gender as 'questionable.'""Guess that covers all the bases," Lula said.
It's not a situation where Evanovich needed a non-binary character to move the plot ahead.
I have never read a Stephanie Plum story that I didn't have at least one belly aching laugh out loud moment, sometimes even in embarrassing places with everyone that is there with me looking at me strangely.The story is ridiculous, something that an extremely ordinary person like me (or even most people) never would go through.
Yes she has a certain immaturity, but she doggedly goes in situations that she is uncertain of the out come and keeps trying until she succeeds, or asking for help when she knows it is too much for her.Hardcore 24 had a number of belly aching laughs for me ( and yes, a number of them were in embarrassing places).
I had a heck of a good time with Hardcore Twenty-Four. I was ready just about ready to give up on Stephanie Plum but this got my right back on track. The Zombie angle was a lot of fun and Grandma Mazur and Lula were in their best form and made me crack up a few times. One of the best books in this series. A fast and super fun read.
Despite being on my author TBR pile for ages and this being the 24th book of the series it's actually the first one I've read.
It's a fairly short book but quite the page turner so it's a quick read.
I could happily read a book of her stories alone.
The story line is bonkers (now wondering if they're all like this?) full of zombies and garden gnome addictions but it's fun.
There's quite a few funny parts to the book and hey everything worked out fine in the end.
If it was summer (it's winter as I write) I'd call it a perfect beach read.
Well, it took more time than usual for me to finish a Plum book and I don't know to what I should attribute that. Maybe it was zombie's fault? I never really liked zombies, from all the supernatural beings they're probably my least favorite ones. Or maybe it was the way Steph was drooling on Diesel even though she already has Morelli AND Ranger to choose from. I mean come on already, don't be greedy. I'm honestly frustrated.Over and out

Stephanie Plum books remind me of Thanksgiving because they always come out this time of year. All the things that remind me of home were in the book. Lulu and her outrageous clothes, Grandma Mazur going to a viewing with a gun in her purse, Stephanie destroying a car, Stephanie's mom nipping at the alcohol and of course deciding between Morelli or Ranger. Diesel is in this one too and he is always fun.If you are a fan of the series, you will love the book.
But even her various man troubles rang hollow this time.After all this time, you'd think there'd be at least a modicum of improvement in Plum's job skill set as a bounty hunter but she's just as pathetic (and lucky more than anyone real or fictional has a right to be) as she was in Book 1.It is one thing to feature a repetitious story, but the characters actually seem to be devolving from the baseline incompetence of their daily lives.The only thing I found "hardcore" about this book was the need to re-evaluate if I'm going to continue reading the series.
(On an unrelated side note, I am apparently one of the few people who liked Diesel's own series and would have liked that to continue instead of shoving him in these books).2) I'm unofficially sick of the Ranger-Stephanie-Morelli love triangle.
I'll still read it, but it would nice to get some headway one way or another.3) Stephanie was smarter at the start of this series than she was in this book.
I need her to learn something, change in some way, for this to keep being interesting.
(Not even from age; what the hell does Stephanie feed them?)6) Book 17 relied on Lula thinking vampires existed; this relies on zombies.
You know when you can just read a book so quickly that instead you end up taking almost a full week to finish it?
That.If you know about Stephanie Plum then you know about Stephanie Plum.This is one of my favourite series despite my touch and go moments with continuing.Yes character progression is basically now a myth in this world, and yes we all know the formulaic sequence of events so well we could recite it blind folded and hanging upside down in a shark tank....
Therefore I give up expecting Stephanie's world to change and will instead just sit back and enjoy the ride...
well you know how that one normally ends.
I have read every Stephanie Plum novel since One For the Money made me laugh out loud in 1994.
What made the Stephanie books so great was how down-to-earth they were, with great characters doing hilarious and ridiculous things.
Sadly, I think it's time for either Janet Evanovich to quit writing them, or me to quit reading them.
The plot is stupid, and I hate books where they bring in a major player in the last chapter.
But the worst thing about this book is that Diesel is in it.
Remember when I said the books were down-to-earth?
When I pick up a Stephanie Plum novel I’m not expecting a novel that’s transcends me or has some poetry in its prose. I’m looking for wit, irony, something engaging and simplistic or even slightly unrealistic. Hardcore 24 met my expectations and kept me highly entertained. Woo hoo, that’s why I continue buying these novels! A perfect read after a hugely disappointing one.
Diesel returns adding suspense to the usual chaotic plot.
It revolves around two main "skips" that Stephanie and Lula are tracking with some "Zombies" thrown in.I read all of Janet Evanovich's books because they are really an easy, "No Brainer" read....pun intended.There wasn't as many funny parts in this book and I think that is what most people who read this series is looking for......that and Ranger and Morelli.
Everything that can be done has been done so unless Ms. Evanovich does something drastic it is just the same old story.
'He walked me to the door, leaned in and kissed me. Friendly. No tongue. No groping. A little disappointing.' So much fun as our favourite bounty-hunter tackles zombies (stick with it, it all makes sense in the end...), a giant snake, and not one, not two, but THREE hot guys! With Lula along for the ride and Grandma Mazur almost involved in a pensioners' swingers club, I giggled inordinately throughout this. Oh, and for the record, I'm a Ranger girl forever! Thanks to Headline for an ARC via Ne
'He walked me to the door, leaned in and kissed me. Friendly. No tongue. No groping. A little disappointing.'
So much fun as our favourite bounty-hunter tackles zombies (stick with it, it all makes sense in the end...), a giant snake, and not one, not two, but THREE hot guys! With Lula along for the ride and Grandma Mazur almost involved in a pensioners' swingers club, I giggled inordinately throughout this. Oh, and for the record, I'm a Ranger girl forever! Thanks to Headline for an ARC via NetGalley
