https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/507840.The_Study_of_Counterpoint
Even if you're not a musician -- like, if you're maybe a painter or a movie-maker or just a person trying to get some stuff done or something -- read this book and feel inspired by its easy to understand analysis of the ever complex world of counterpoint.
In my opinion, a skeletal understanding of the way multiple lines of music work together and independently of one another is a little window into this whole crazy world of ours and how it works.
It's written in the style of a dialogue between a teacher and a student and super easy to follow.
Fux's need to preach takes away from his perfectly legitimate argument: we have lost touch with what is true, and we need to go back to the basics.This book on counterpoint is as much about philosophy as it is about voice-leading.
Although the conversation between master and pupil (Aloysius and Josephus)is like bad Star Wars/Mr. Miyagi and grasshopper, it is a deeper look into the actual practice of counterpoint and the concerns/problems that will arise in the study of it.
Furthermore, Mann's "The Study of Counterpoint" is almost like a story of the master (Aloysius) who is getting too old to teach, and looking for a worthy pupil to carry the torch.
This is a fantastic book, which clearly articulates an approach to Baroque Counterpoint. This is a wonderful study for composers, and this book will walk you through the concepts of Counterpoint which were employed by Bach, Handel and others. I, myself, studied this book and then wrote a simple trio for Violin, Cello and Piano which during performance was taken for a Bach trio by those in attendance.
Nice and short, really; of course it is. Out of all the books in dialogue format, this is a pretty entertaining one. Did Fux (or Mann) write anything else? Because it might be funny.I had to read the whole thing twice to make myself pay attention through the flowery language, but it makes me feel slightly smug to realize that the last things I arranged followed all the rules, which I knew without being formally taught them.
Marvelous! The dialogue between the student and master made the book much more approachable than if it had been written like a dry textbook, and the old fashioned language was very nice. It is amazing how Fux could make such a complicated subject seem simple, or at least understandable! I only wish the first part of the Gradus ad Parnassum had been included.
Oh venerable master, you are my constant companion!
Excellent, step-by-step book on learning how to write counterpoint.
Fux recommends spending 3 years working out the various species before writing free compositions.
I chose to do the "quick" route and just play through the examples and glean general instruction on writing counterpoint but I agree with Fux that working through the species will take considerable time and be of the most benefit.
The examples are not very melodic in nature but will teach you sound counterpoint writing.
It's more important to learn the principles than to endeavor to become a Bach overnight in contrapuntal writing.
Reading this was my first exploration into more advanced harmony and voice leading, and I was quite daunted! After a couple months of practice and familiarization on the subject, I was able to come back and progress through it slowly.It may not be the best "total beginner" guide (at least not for me), but it is fascinating to take a glimpse of 17th and 18th century music pedagogy, not to mention the perspective Fux gives through the dialogue of the student and teacher. Definitely worth a look through your local secondhand bookstore or library!
Fux's study on species counterpoint has set the standard for centuries on tonal music; in fact, this is the same text that Beethoven used. Therefore, I would encourage anyone to start here if they want to learn composition.
No work of Palestrina or any other great master could have been written following the rules laid out by Fux and the whole "learn rules to break them" mentality is unhelpful; what would be the benefit of studying rules that do not help one realize what leads to independence of parts or good melodic lines?
The only people who should take interest in this book are those interested in the history of music pedagogy.Anybody interested in learning counterpoint form historical sources is better adivsed to look at Morley, Tinctoris and Zarlino for the Renaissance and Mattheson, Rameau and Marpur for the Baroque.
Το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο αποτελεί μετάφραση μέρους του έργου του Johann Joseph Fux, Gradus Ad Parnassum, το οποίο έχει σαν στόχο την διδασκαλία της μουσικής σύνθεσης με τη μέθοδο της αντίστιξης.Ο τρόπος που μεταδίδεται η γνώση στον αναγνώστη γίνεται μέσα από έναν υποθετικό διάλογο μεταξύ δασκάλου και μαθητευομένου, σε αντίθεση με μια απλή συγκέντρωση κανόνων και πρακτικών προς απομνημόνευση και εφαρμογή.
Αντίθετα, οι δυσκολίες και οι προκλήσεις της μουσικής σύνθεσης παρουσιάζονται με σειρά καθώς οι απαιτήσεις των ασκήσεων ανεβαίνουν σε κάθε κεφάλαιο με αποτέλεσμα να φανερώνονται οι προελέυσεις των πρακτικών που καθιερώθηκαν ως κανόνες.Διαβάζοντας κανείς το συγκεκριμένο βιβλίο δεν πρέπει να ξεχνά οτι διαβάζει τη μετάφραση ενός έργου που γράφτηκε τον 18ο αιώνα μιας και ο συγγραφέας έχει ως βάση του διδακτικού του υλικού τους εκκλησιαστικούς τρόπους (κλίμακες) αλλά και άλλες συνήθειες και πρακτικές της εποχής.
Leído por grandes músicos como Bach, Beethoven, entre muchos otros,pone las bases para que puedas apreciar, bajo estudio propio o con algún guía, obras contrapuntísticas,así como para componer, con la dedicación suficiente, música con esta técnica.Traducido al inglés contemporáneo.An incredible book that has survived the test of time.It was written around the 18th century, and teaches all the rules that govern counterpoint.
Read by Bach, Beethoven,among many others so-called 'great composers', this book lays the ground on which you will be ableto appreciate and compose, with the proper dedication, music that uses this technique.Translated from latin to contemporary english.
This is probably THE book on Counterpoint.
It's nearly 300 years old at this point, and many of the old masters studied from it.
Reading it as a modern reader is a bit strange.
About half of the book is framed as a conversation between a teacher and a student.
That said, if you are capable of reading basic musical notation, you shouldn't have too much trouble.
It is just a little bit intermediate for someone just starting out, but the exercises are invaluable.
That said, these techniques of counterpoint (particularly two-part, first-species counterpoint) are still found all over music to this day.
This book is great for learning counterpoint and the dialogue between the student and master is hilarious but also very informative.
However, analyzing the figures and trying to do them on your own reveals even more about the practice than is put into words in the dialogue.
I was required to buy this book for my AP music theory class even though counterpoint is not a significant part of the curriculum, but it has expanded my knowledge of music immensely and could not be happier with it.
Masterpiece! Loved the dialog between teacher and pupil. It is very much a direct expression of the same questions a beginner of counterpoint would expect to ask and it makes for easier reading. There are many useful exercises and this is obviously a handbook to use as knowledge of counterpoint develops.Appreciated the good explanations for the rules, as well as the message that some of them are mostly guidelines rather than absolute truths is very important to go forward with the more complicated types of counterpoint. Will probably come back to it soon.
Fantastisch geschreven, in dialoogvorm tussen een 'meester' en een leerling, vertrekt dit boek van een cantus firmus (zeg maar: de melodielijn) naar een vierstemmige compositie. Heel helder en structureel verwoord, is het duidelijk waarom dit boek reeds zolang en bij zovele componisten hoog staat aangeschreven. Basiskennis notenleer is aangewezen (zoals bijvoorbeeld terug te vinden in de boekjes van Dave Stewart, _The Musician's Guide to Reading & Writing Music_ & _Inside the Music _).
I believe JJ Fux's treatise on counterpoint is essential to any pupil wishing to learn the craft of tonal composition. It provides a strong grounding in the most important of all musical techniques: Counterpoint. It goes through Species 1-5 for 1 voice, and proceeds with developments of up to 4 voices. It can either be used as a study or as a reference guide; there are many exercises throughout that the reader can have a go at. All in all a very useful book.
A phenomenal translation/edition of a quintessential text. This is a MUST for anyone interested in composition and/or theory. (I found a free workbook online that I printed out and used as a companion to this text. Doing this gave me an deep understanding of the text and Fux's method.) Also, the ending is chilling and caught me by surprise...
This is quite likely the best book I've read this year. And it is 3/4 in musical notion. And had me lost a huge percentage of the time. I had to read everything about 3 times to get a handle on it. Still I learned an insane amount about a very cool subject.
This is one of the best sources on counterpoint. Taking the reader step-by-step through the processes involved. It's a short book and I'm going to read it again in the future. Some valuable information and insight.
I don't know what to think. This is really based on an ars perfecta idea of Wilhaert/Palestrina counterpoint, and I suspect that it's codification like this that was the fatal mistake of the contrapuntal project.
The books says enough for itself... graddus ad parnassum* it is the source of counterpoint for all of western music from Bach to the growth of Serialism, Atonality and all of the other 20th century isms
This was a text for my Theory I class back in the day. The format gets old fast, but the information and concise nature of the text was pretty useful as reference for the kinds of assignments we were working on.
Good classic work for studying the theory of counterpoint. The conversation approach makes it more than just another plain study book. The humble student does get annoying after a while, but he and his teacher really teach you the steps to Parnassus.
nice beginner book on species counterpoint.
An independent excerpt from Fux's 'Gradus ad Parnassum' intended to assist the novice in contrapuntal studies.
The dialogue is a little goofy. Cute, nerdy. I would use this as a companion to studying counterpoint or as a review since it has a different way of saying things and is concise.
Masterful.
orgasmic.
classic for beginning studies...too bad I don't remember anything.Seems "outdated" as well, I never hear of the cantus firmus in any modern texts.
