https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/206899.Devil_s_Knot
I am a prosecuting attorney (I put bad guys in jail), and I regularly work closely with the police on investigations.
This book should be mandatory reading for anyone (judge, attorney, cop) involved in criminal investigations with life or death consequences.
I think I read half the book with my mouth hanging open because I was so shocked at the conduct of the police and so incredibly disappointed at the prosecutors who presented the case in spite of such glaring issues.
The book piles on maddening details of the "amateur justice metted out" (according to Henry Rollins's blurb on the back cover), such as the initial coerced--then recanted--confession by one of the convicts (a kid with a borderline mentally retarded IQ) whose 12-hour interrogation (only 45 minutes of which was recorded) was filled with inaccuracies, the constant blockings by the biased trial judge of anything the defense did to help their clients, leaks to the media, numerous second-hand witnesses who all admitted to lying after the fact, the prosecutors calling to the stand an "occult expert" who was then revealed by the defense to have gotten his PHD through the mail, random sticks and knives brought in to the jury as "evidence" that had no fingerprints, dna, blood, etc., numerous other suspects not followed up on by the police (many of whom were under investigation themselves for corruption prior to the case), and so on and so forth.
[The prosecutor] is the representative not of an ordinary party to a controversy, but of a sovereignty whose obligation to govern impartially is as compelling as its obligation to govern at all; and whose interest, therefore, in a criminal prosecution is not that it shall win a case, but that justice shall be done. As such, he is in a peculiar and very definite sense the servant of the law, the twofold aim of which is that guilt shall not escape or innocence suffer…- Berger v. U.S., 295 U.S. 78,
First off, however good her book is, it is going to be compared (and found lacking) to the Paradise Lost trilogy.
Leveritt was an Arkansas journalist who covered the original trials of the West Memphis Three.
As a defense attorney, I’m a huge fan of Paradise Lost, but a documentary can’t cover everything.
West Memphis justice leaves a lot to be desired, but you can’t fault the men appointed to represent those teenagers.
I can’t recommend the Paradise Lost trilogy and West of Memphis enough.
Devil's Knot is the story of the West Memphis Three, three Delta teenagers convicted of the ghastly murders of three third graders in 1992, The story is highlighted by gross incompetence on the part of the police dept and the kangaroo courtroom tactics of Judge Burnett, who it appears, had made up his mind about the outcome of the trial before it began.
Mara states in the foreword that the case is a direct parallel to the Salem witch trials in MA in the 17th century.
Damien Echols was targeted as a "satanic cultist" based on the mere fact that he wore all black and checked out Cotton Mather's book on Witchcraft from the library.
This book is phenomenal. I have followed this case for so many years...I live in Memphis, so this happened about 20 miles from my house. I remember everything so vividly and this book is a dead on accurate RELEVANT gem.If you don't know anything about the West Memphis Three...this book is an excellent starter.on a side note, I got to meet Damien last month at a book signing in Oxford, MS. and he was a charming humble and very well spoken man. It was a pleasure to get to listen to him speak.But I digress, Read This Book.
A hefty wallop of a book, Devil's Knot will FUCK YOUR BRAIN UP and make you like it. It's true crime in the best sort of way; horrifically true and sad and it will grab you by the metaphorical balls and never let go.
Mara Leveritt breaks down the time line of events regarding the torture and murder of Christopher Byers, Steve Branch and Michael Moore on May 5th 1993.
Meaning it was the 666th case worked by police of that year.
Page 25-- A young man in the area stated to police that he might have committed the murders while high.
Page 326- Fogleman immediately called after hearing of the boys murder and advised police to look into John mark Byers based on his violent history.
And if I had to say I would say John Mark Byers or Terry Hobbs were responsible for murders.
I highly recommend everyone read this book.
First of all, the travesty of justice it describes is outrageous.
But even IF you read this book and believe they still might have done it, the investigation and trial that put them in prison was clearly, irrevocably flawed.
This book meticulously describes a broken, corrupt court system, one in which your taste in music and books can be used against you in a court of law, and that's just the beginning of what was wrong with the case.Secondly, this book is an outstanding piece of journalism.
Thirdly, this book just reads like fiction.
I just keep shaking my head at the absurdity of this court case.
The murder of three eight-year old boys needed solving.
It had a high Christian population, so it expected everyone to believe in a blonde headed, blue eyed Christ.
These three boys, because that's what they were, BOYS, were railroaded by the system that was put in place to protect the rights of all citizens.
ALL citizens regardless of differences or abilities.
Yes, there was a hate crime perpetrated.
So not only do we have the heinous homicide of the boys in the woods, there was the unjustified persecution of Damian, Jessie, and Jason.
Want a book that will make you so mad you want to punch someone in the face? Detailing an almost deliberate, definitely despicable, miscarriage of justice DEVIL'S KNOT will either have you reaching out to help innocence projects or forever burying your head in the sand.
I spent most of my time reading about the case nearly howling with fury, and think that not only the people involved but the entire state of Arkansas should be ashamed of themselves for letting such a blatant miscarriage of justice occur.As for me, I own a ton of black clothing (way more than Jason's 15 t-shirts), read lots of Stephen King and true crime, and prefer Guns N Roses to pop music.
On May 5th 1993, the bodies of three eight year old Arkansan boys -- Christopher Byers, Michael Moore, and Stevie Branch -- were found in a ditch in West Memphis. They were bound at the hands and feet, naked, scratched and mutilated. The justified sadness and outrage of their community followed, as did the pressure to find the person(s) who could have committed such a horrible crime against innocence. Unfortunately, that pressure resulted in no justice done for the boys and three further young
The first false confession in the case, made by a boy not involved with the West Memphis Three, was taken to be a false confession; the false confession badgered out of Jessie Misskelly was admitted and used as the only real evidence against him.
Almost the entire case against Jessie, Damien, and Jason was based on circumstantial evidence that the boys were weird and liked weird things.
This means that the real killer of Christopher, Stevie, and Michael was never actually brought to justice, which should have been the priority here.Secondly, I cannot see Damien and Jason and not see the boys I was friends with in the late 90s and early 00s.
While Leveritt's books offers a mound of information concerning the case that was necessarily left out by the brief Paradise Lost documentaries of Sinofsky and Berlinger, and her comprehensive focus allows her work to exonerate Echols, Baldwin and Misskelley the way the films could not, the one flaw I see in Devil's Knot is its lack of revelation about the personal qualities of the teenagers, with the possible exception of Jason Baldwin, who is shown to be strong and loyal.
It is immediately clear that Jesse Misskelley's confession is entirely coerced by the police.
I felt like it was an unbiased representation of events that transpired that resulted in the convictions of three young men for the murders of three 8-year-old boys despite there being no evidence to tie them to the crime scene and no plausible reason for them to have committed said murders.I did a heck of a lot of reading on the Internet about this case whilst reading and watched the Paradise Lost documentaries last weekend.
if anyone looked at mine, they'd be alarmed, too.Toward the end, a lot of people involved in the case have said that if they'd only heard about what's been publicized, they'd think the West Memphis 3 were not guilty, too.
Truth really can be stranger and more twisted than fiction! Fascinating case, excellent book covering all aspects. Really enjoyed.
Good..!!!
Throughout my time spent reading this book, I hardly knew what to think of the officers and authority figures in West Memphis, Arkansas.
It still boggles my mind that they didn't have a single piece of credible physical evidence to link any of these three boys to that scene, and yet they all spent nearly twenty years in jail.And then there's the people who should, by rights, have been investigated right off the bat -- and yet it took how long before the victims' families were questioned?
This case needs to be reopened and investigated a hell of a lot more thoroughly than it was the first time around.
Journalist Mara Leveritt documents the investigation, trials and appeals of the West Memphis Three (Damien Echols, Jason Baldwin, and Jessie Misskelley, Jr.) for the murder of three eight-year-old boys in West Memphis, Arkansas, on May 5, 1993.
With more than 50 pages of endnotes, the events are well-researched and the account well-written, if not neutral.
Despite the judge’s rulings, the juries’ verdicts, and the appellate courts affirming the convictions, Leveritt is convinced beyond a reasonable doubt of the three teenagers’ innocence with regard to these murders.
I hope to see a second book by Leveritt detailing the events after 2002.
in light of the west memphis three's release in august, i can only think that if i had read this book while they were still in prison, i'd be raising all kinds of hell.
sadly, it is easy to see how the victims are lost in the details of the case; however, perhaps that would not have happened had the right people been investigated from the beginning.well, i hate to beat a dead horse, and i know i'm late to the game and a million other cliche's, but i don't think it's ever too late to read something that is so shocking and makes you rethink your rights and saftey.
Shocking and infuriating.
Fuck the police, and fuck creepy stepfathers who desperately cling to their pathetic religious beliefs to impede justice- and cover their own asses.This account is completely infuriating and very troubling.
The Story begins in West Memphis, Arkansas, on May 5th 1993, when three 8 year old boys were found brutally murdered.
In the very beginning the police started to look into the possibility that these were 'satanic ritual killings', and as one defence lawyer later said, the police got a 'Damien Echols tunnel vision'.Damien Echols was a 18 year old boy living in poverty (white trash as he himself has said), with a history of mental illness and more importantly, liked Stepehn King novels, wore black, listened to metal music and was into Wiccan.
In that recorded time, Jessie confessed he had witnessed Damien and Jason murdering the three boys.
A few years earlier, my mom and I spent all of Thanksgiving Day watching my DVD’s of Paradise Lost 1 & 2 (these are two HBO Documentaries by Bruce Sinofsky and Joe Berlinger that shine a light on all of the unjust facts of the case.
There is a documentary done by Damien, his wife Lorri Davis and Peter Jackson of The Lord of the Rings fame called West of Memphis that will be released in theatres this December.
After watching the videos and talking it all over with me, my mom became convinced that the three boys were innocent as well, and if not innocent, then certainly not given a fair trial.
*Witch Hunt in West Memphis Arkansas circa 1993*This case was a travesty, a mockery of justice from beginning to end.
After reading the first couple of chapters of this book, I had strong suspicions on who had actually murdered those poor little boys.
She covers the evidence found in the heinous murders of the three 8 year old boys in a precise, straight-forward way, yet this book is anything but a 'dry' read.
I highly recommend this book to anyone with an interest in the case of the West Memphis 3, or how the justice system in America can/does fail.
Whoah. This shambles of a murder investigation and its ensuing trial is an incredulous example of your worst nightmare. It's unbelievable to imagine that wearing a black t-shirt and listening to Metallica could condemn you to life in prison. There are chilling similarities between Misskelley's coerced "confession" and Brendan Dassey's interrogation that implicated Steve Avery (the focus of Netflix's Making a Murderer). Both cases appear to be victim to gross ineptitude. Leveritt does a great job in running through a timelines of events, peppered with enough details, quotes and interviews to keep things interesting. I was mesmerised by every chapter.
Having seen the movie first I wanted to track this book down and now I finally have. "Like" is not a word I use for true crime stories, however this one was well written. There is so much that I could say about this book but it has been said in many other reviews. If this were a work of fiction it would be a brilliant novel but sadly this was real.
This book was great I couldn't put it down.
For fans of Netflix’s Making a Murderer and Amanda Knox.Devil’s Knot follows the murder of three eight-year-old boys.
Despite all the issues throughout the investigation and trials, the teenagers were convicted.Devil’s Knot is a complete account of what happened leading up to the children’s murder, what happened the night of the murder, the trials, and the years that followed.
The novel itself informs the reader of what happened in a narrative form that is backed up by police notes, investigations, interviews, etc.
It’s a novel you read to inform yourself of the injustices of the world and read with a critical view.
In my humble opinion I believe America is no longer a country where the accused are innocent until proven guilty.
I went from giving this book five stars to three and then back to four.
My reasoning - the first three quarters of the book was well-documented, contained a lot of information, and was fascinating, hence the five stars.
However, my version is a Kindle book and I had to keep going back and forth to read notes - down to four stars now.
I settled on four stars because of the extensive documentation and effort that was so obviously taken to write it.
(Incidentally, *not* Arkansas.) For a third thing, a friend of mine is going to be in the movie.
So when I found the book on sale, I figured what the hell and gave it a shot.
It appalls me that it took eighteen years to reverse this wrong, when the facts as they're laid out in this clear, concise narrative blatantly show that you could have driven a bus through the holes in the prosecution's case.
I found myself staring at the book in horror on more than one occasion, just...slackjawed and appalled.
