https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/397868.Haunted
Herbert is a decent writer and storyteller, to be sure; but, I found nothing fascinating about HAUNTED.
(view spoiler)[The "medium" who succumbs to what can best be described as stage-fright is one of the sorriest ends to a character I have ever read.
(hide spoiler)] Overall, this is a fast read that suits the Halloween atmosphere.
You could do worse for a "fright" read.
That being said, I am still going to read some of Herbert's other titles, they just won't be moving to the top of the TBR pile any time soon.RECOMMENDED (with reservations)
(And it won't be a particularly easy or comfortable experience.) Herbert's message here, IMO, isn't necessarily to be taken as a literal assertion that ghosts actually exist; but as supernatural elements in fiction often do, the haunting here serves as a metaphor for aspects of reality that aren't reducible to the neat, the mathematical, the rational, and the naturally explainable.During his lifetime, James Herbert was the best-selling fiction author in the U.K. Often, best-seller status only testifies to the power of advertising and the ability of bookstore chains to manipulate the lists.
David Ash is sent to a remote village to investigate a haunting at the Edbrook house. Ash is renowned for debunking supernatural phenomenon, and he dives into this assignment ready to do just that.Too bad the place is really haunted.Well executed, but fairly predictable ghost story with some genuinely hair raising scenes.I will certainly read the rest of the series.
I give it a 3.4 rather BCOZ u can can make out how the ending is when you are half way into the book.! I still dont understand if he (the Protagonist) was facing reality or the illusion sorted out for him. On the whole if ur new to the horror genre. This book is a def recommended!
Pretty darn creepy!
Before anyone who is a huge James Herbert fan starts mentally pelting me with rotten tomatoes, consider the fact that eons and a growing taste for more sophisticated haunted house stories now stand between this reading and my first time with it.
The sad thing is that up to the last few pages, and I'm really sorry major Herbert fans, what happens along the way may have been earth shattering in the 80s but well, kind of old hat by now.
On the flip side, it was fun revisiting this novel even if I no longer think it's the greatest haunted house story ever told.
From the very beginning the reader soon becomes accustomed to Ash's bad habits, cynical view on life and overall downbeat traits, of which followers of Herbert's work will recognise as a somewhat recurring theme within his novels.
Herbert carefully builds the underlying tension of the storyline, interweaving the sub-plots of the developing character relationships, whilst still subtly hinting to the reader an uneasy atmosphere to the whole scenario.
The film director Lewis Gilbert (him of James Bond fame no less) later went on to make the film adaptation of `Haunted' in 1995 of the same name.
I've already read Ghosts of Sleath - the sequel to this, didn't know it existed - and The Shrine, and it's very clear I need to read more of James Herbert's work.
Gripping novel with a finale that shocked me !
But it is the links to his own past that cause the biggest scares.I think I like this because there is no nonsense - it gets right on with the story, setting the scene quickly and playing out the action over three nights.
To be honest, the 'twist' in the tale isn't that hard to spot, but I think that makes a good horror story - if the reader is one step of the protagonist and can see what is going to happen, our fear and emotions are heightened.Great read - onto the next in the trilogy.
Interesting haunted house tale. First in a series starring paranormal investigator David Ash. The plot had some genuine chills and unexpected turns. Spooky fun!
I listened to the sample probably 4 times before taking the plunge and going for it anyway, because the reader didn't really do much for me, but it was one of those scenarios where I wasn't completely in "NOPE." mode either.
Literally one two-word sentence was enough for me to know that the reader would have ruined the book for me.)Anyway, this was one that, thankfully, ended up being enjoyable.
I enjoyed the story, but it wasn't all that unique or ground-breaking, and there were times when I was either confused or frustrated by the way that the story was told, and by some of the characters.
Uhh...
Chill peace of work.For a moment, I had felt my heart bounced like a hammer from the stonewall.I do not know why I have waited so long to finish this book, but, life has a strange ways...I gave it only four stars (only) because the first part of the book was a little slow and did make me unexpectedly dull.
But, as the story goes on it become better and better, until the end.
It was very, very good.
:-)At last, I would recommended it to anyone who do not have a weak heart and do like a horror stories.By by...
Ciężko powiedzieć czy zawinił trochę tłumacz (szczególnie, że mój egzemplarz jest pierwszym wydaniem), czy faktycznie szału nie ma też w oryginale, ale całościowo książkę czyta się dość łatwo.
Również Dawid, który stronę wcześniej twierdzi, że nawet lepiej, że nie może w pociągu napić się czegoś mocniejszego, bo nie wypada, żeby klient na dzień dobry poczuł alkohol, to gdy już dociera na miejsce nagle o tym zapomina i pierwsze co zamówił w pubie to wódka (czyli stronę później).
Pozwolę sobie na zacytowanie (nie ma tu niczego istotnego dla fabuły, więc bez obaw):‘’[Edith] – Właśnie się nad tym zastanawiam.
Chociaż im dalej, tym książka lepiej się rozkręca.
As such he can spout of all the ghostly rules that a book like this needs, while at the same time being totally shocked when things start to get out of hand.
Indeed the world weary man with a scarred past is a type which normally features in crime novels (the opening on the train actually reminded me of Michael Caine at the beginning of ‘Get Carter’, except he was going North while Ash is heading West), but it works so well in a ghost story setting too.The ridiculously generic title tells you the type of tale this is going to be, and on that score it never disappoints.
David Ash is one of the best characters I have found in a very long time, being easy to understand as well as being much fun to read – developing so much across the three books.In this first instalment of the parapsychologist we’re thrown into a classic ghost story.
It’s a relatively short story compared to the other books in the series but it works to set the scene for the following books, giving you the understanding of David Ash that you need.
James Herbert continues to impress me.
This book was so much better than an average haunted house fare, it was dark, well written, atmospheric and really kept the reader guessing as to what was going on.
Years ago (before I read any Herbert) I watched a movie this book was based on, I couldn't remeber much of the plot, but I remembered some of the cast and so while reading this book I kept picturing Ash as Aidan Quinn and Christina as Kate Beckinsale.
Good casting, actually, although now I want to see the movie again.
Very good book, highly recommended.
Haunted was incredibly eerie and suspenseful, really a fantastic novel.
The story follows David Ash, a paranormal investigator sent to Edbrook to look into the haunting that the family have been subjected to over the years.
In doing so he is forced to face his own past and his own ghosts, something that he has tried to avoid since he was a child.
Don't get me wrong this is a good read, well written with very interesting characters, I was just hoping for something a little different that sent chills up my spine.
For the first time ever I’ve read a book where one of the main characters shares a name with myself and I have to admit it was a strange feeling because I kept going “That’s me.” Honestly how do those of you with common names do it?
I really liked Haunted, and I was sat here exclaiming with every new twist that was revealed.
I had an inkling as to what the twist may be, but wasn’t entirely sure, and was quite happy that it played out how I’d expected it too.
I’m definitely going to be reading the other books in the David Ash trilogy.
This was not the book for me. I listened to it on audible and found it very difficult to pay attention to the story. Then I found that it didn't matter that I wasn't paying attention because very little was happening. The last hour of the book was definitely the best part, but basically I was happy it was short and now over.
Parapsicólogo va a una mansión en la que perturbadores acontecimientos joden la convivencia de 3 hermanos y su tía. Este “especialista” tuvo una juventud diferente al ver cosas que no debería. Así que llega muy chulo él diciendo a estos habitantes que no le digan nada, el solo descubrirá que pasa.Yo también hare lo mismo, y no os diré nada más.
Really enjoyed this book. Scary. Recommended.
I enjoyed the audiobook well enough, but probably would have enjoyed reading it more.
It’s a wonder that he’s such a hit with the ladies (two sexual encounters in this book alone).
It’s also a reason why he’s so emotionally unavailable.
Fewer characters would have been more effective.There are also some unneeded scenes, such as the flashback to a séance Ash experienced with one of Ash’s partners (a psychic).
That fact makes us wonder if what’s occurring at Edbrook is really paranormal, or if Ash will be able to pull a Scooby Doo when it’s all said and done.
On the other hand, Ash goes through great lengths to investigate the haunting.
So great to read this haunted house gem set back in the late 80s in the days before mobile phones when you had to put silver coins into a public phone box to make a call. So of course back then it wasn’t so easy to call for help whilst being haunted by mysterious, unexplained, ghostly events as it would be now.....The first of the David Ash Trilogy and an easy to become absorbed into horror read. I’m straight into the Second in the trilogy on the strength of this first.
It was a good read, finished in a day. The story was somewhat predictable and the ending twist was not at all surprising (there were lots of clues). It definitely belongs to the 'haunted house, protagonist with issues' category, but it was a fun read, quick and fast paced with enough atmospheric horror to leave you in chills.
Excellent, well written ghost story. I've given it three stars, but they are big stars. I doubt it is a book I'll remember to my dying day, but I will definitely read more of his books. Good craftsmanship, not many surprises. Great story, well told.
This is the story of a man working for a psychic research institute who mostly debunks psychics and haunted house stories finding himself in a house that the occupants claim is haunted.
There's a lot of strange stuff happening when he arrives and his usual crutch of alcohol may not work this time.
Oh man, that was twisted.
I'm not sure how some of the events in the plot worked but that was a twisted story that I'm not sure David Ash is going to recover any time soon from.
A product of it's time.
Still super creepy after all this time!
