https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/255799.Beautiful_Girlhood
I'm sure this book would have been very helpful to girls in the early 20th century, but not now. I'm a 14 year old girl and I would feel really silly acting the way this book suggests. It's not really Biblical like it claims it's just old fashioned. I mean who honestly would expect girls these days to dress and act like girls from 100 years ago? This book may be helpful to some people, but definitely not me.
While this book provides an interesting study of early 20th Century ideals, I would definitely take its advice with a grain of salt.
For a book on Christian character for pre-teen and early teen girls, it falls flat, in my opinion.
Some of what the authoress has to say is good advice, for instances her focus on purposeful character building.
Most modern girls in the target age group will tend to throw the baby out with the bathwater and reject the entire book as nonsense, so I think the books is best left for group settings where the positives and negatives can be thoughtfully discussed.
That said, there are much better books out there for this age group.
Susan bought this for me for my 20th birthday.As I read it, I am not only carried away by the beautiful prose and lyrical instruction, but I am also thankful for the wisdom that age carries and passes down to its young."I would not chill the warmth and ardor of happy girlhood.
Dream your bright and happy dreams, and aspire to your lofty heights.
There were quite a few times of conscience pricks, yet there were also times where I felt the claims she made were too large and unsupported (ie// (second to being a wife and mother) "there is no nobler profession for any girl to choose than that of a teacher").
I read this a long, long time ago with my mom and sister for school, and let’s just say, a lot of what I read was lost on me. (I was 7, 8, 9... somewhere in there.) It kind of disgusted me at the time, when I was really rather a tomboy. xD But what I do remember now was some great advice, and I’m glad I read it, even if it was torture to my younger self. :P
I wish I'd read this when I was around 11. Even though I'm past the target age, I did still get a lot of worth out of it, and now I'm prepared to use it with my own future daughters.
Read this aloud with my 13-year-old. We read the original version, maybe the revised version is better. Some timeless wisdom but much is law with no gospel. One chapter mentions Christ and some chapters mention a vague “God” and he is depicted only as judge. It’s a useful book for young ladies (and interesting to note how much culture has changed since it was written!) but we followed most chapters up with more discussion on law and grace.
Had some good points and lessons; I found it best reading two to three chapters only at a time.
This little treasure is just what I'm needing. I have a desire to start a group for girls and I am finding ideas left and right.This is a small treasure. Yet I have had ideas for a momschool club come to my mind and I think it's a little early yet for my girls or maybe not. As I prepare myself I'll probably find the times has passed quickly and my girls are ready.Every character of personality and the development of girlhood into young womanhood is covered.I wish I could give a copy to all women.
" None of us can afford to be anything but what is good and pure and true!" A great book to read with your growing daughter to help her understand the changes in her body and spirit. Beautifully written.
You think this book is for young ladies. I am 53 and wanted to read this along with my 18 year old daughter. I learned so much. I was not raised in a Christian home and learned so much from this book. You are never too old to learn.
Emma and I are reading this together....so far, so good. This is a much easier read than Raising Maidens of Virtue.
this book is really good and its great for bible stuy too!! I love it!!
This book has been touted among the conservative Christian homeschool cum-patriarchal movement as a great book to make your daughters study. Eh! It's just a nice book, a good little book of manners from the 1920s (written, I'm sure, with the thought of dissuading would-be flappers before they hit high school). I liked it, I've read better, but it's a good book of its type (vintage manners).
It's an older book, written in a classic style with old-fashioned speech and has a quaint and appealing effect.
This would be a great book for moms and their girls to study together; I'm assuming it would be most effective with girls who have been exposed to and enjoy classic literature and quaint speech.
I plan to read this with my own daughter a few years hence.In the meantime, I feel encouraged in my own daily grind to become nobler and gentler, and pursue more actively the qualities that I lack.
This book was kind of all over the place for me, but overall I appreciated how it brought up many different areas to talk about and train my children in -- some that I hadn't thought much about yet.
It covers friendship, modesty, industriousness, choosing a job, and lots of chapters about what it means to be a woman of virtue.
A lot of the chapters were 100% legalistic moralism and did not take into account the fact that my children are depraved sinners.
So I was again left to paraphrase and add in the gospel.
I've read this book twice.
Once in my early teen years, and later on into them for refresher.
My Mom tried to read this to me earlier than that but I was not ready for the concentrated wisdom.
Beautiful Girlhood was written for young ladies a long time ago.
Gender roles may have changed some over the years, but the inner essence of a young lady has not.
This book gives gentle guidance as to what a young lady should strive for.
It describes a ladies' taste, habits, and maturity as coming from the heart.
I would recommend this book to any young lady without hesitancy!
What caught my attention was the cover of this book.
It looks very old (and it is) but it has an illustration on the cover which is not typical of books from this time period.
Sadly my copy of this book is very damaged with stains and marking all over the cover and the binding coming apart.
This book does not apply to my life but I still enjoyed reading it and I was able to get a sense of what was expected from a 10-16 year old girl in the early twenties.
I can also see why this book is so popular with families that home school.
Ooh how I love this book! I am so grateful Sarah introduced me to it ^_^ I believe this book simply MUST have been read by Rapunzel.. Anne Shirley... {Cinder}Ella... it expresses so many things that can be seen in their characters; traits that I wish to adopt. It teaches you in such a kind, flowery, old-fashioned way to be sunny and kind and lovely. And I'm sure I'll keep reading it much past my own girlhood, because I believe it timeless and beautiful. Read it!
This book is widely used in homeschooling circles as a means of addressing feminine graces with young teenage daughters. While I appreciated some of the issues raised in the book, it never did engage my girls' interest. In fact, I sensed they endured it politely only to please me. It is somewhat antiquated in its approach and perhaps it might appeal to girls of a particular nature, but it was not a favorite here.
Such an excellent book. This book is excellent for girls, but it is also an excellent read for women of all ages. What an astounding reminder (especially in this day in age) of what it means to be a woman of noble character. We should all strive to achieve the ideals laid out in this book. If all women would adhere to these principles (biblical in nature), we would have a transformed society, for the better.
I only rated this book a two, but that doesn't mean it was bad! I picked it up in the hopes of finding something similar to The Kings Daughter, And Other Stories For Girls. Sadly, it was disappointing in the fact that it wasn't That Book. I felt it was hard to get through, didn't hold my interest, and the narrator's voice could be a bit...patronizing...at times. Still, I think it's a great title in the Character Building genre, and the values expressed are spot on!
Read this sweet book to my girls a few short years ago; desiring to prepare them for the changes they would feel/ go through, and to give them hope and encouragement to grow up in Christ beautiful, mature, honorable young ladies. Now my youngest (13 year old) has pulled it off the shelf again and is using it in her own quiet time. Praying again for fresh perspective as age and interests have changed. Praying for a continued metamorphosis in my girls' lives. :)
This is a great book for young girls, ages nine to nineteen. It is old-fashioned, but it does have relevance in society today, teaching girls to carry themselves with dignity and pride. Too many young girls make spectacles of themselves. This book describes the beauty in self-control and chaste behavior. It is also a great book for mothers of young girls as well.
I really liked the language of the book--it's so flowery that you feel as if you're eating roses, and also the roses turned out to taste like lembas but more better--but its message is stressful, like, "Don't screw up in love! The emotional baggage will be super awkward when you finally get married!" For all of us normal, mortal human girls, the ideas from this book are just really strange.
Reading this with my eldest daughter. So far there is good advice for my daughter. A great value is that there are many emotions that are discussed that are common to girls that a father just doesn't think of. On the down side, it could be far more Christ centered and explicitly biblical.I would not trust my daughter to read it without my (or my wife's) supervision.
WOW!!!! What an excellent book!  Now this isn't really a story it's more of a Gide book for young girls.  But I loved the messages in it, the morals, the chapters that got to me an made me think, I really can improve myself quite a bit!  It is excellent book. I would defiantly recommend this book to those young woman our there that need a Gide.
This was a thought-forming book for me during my late childhood/early teen years. Short chapters made it an easy read, while still full of thought provoking information, without being too heavy for the intended audience. I highly recommend it for any girl between the ages of 10-13 ... but it's worthwhile at any age. I consider it a staple for the bookshelf for any girl or woman.
I gave it a two star because I am not a girl. however the book has some insights into girlhood that any lady that is a girl needs to get familiar to.Mabel Hale got me surrounded during this time when ladies are saying #mydressmychoice with very nice tibits on dressing habits for girlhoodhttps://storify.com/samdemic/beautifu...
So refreshing to read compared to modern books on puberty. The names and language are old-fashioned, but the advice is applicable. No biological details on tampons, shaving, anorexia, or drugs; but a lot about spiritual and emotional development, as well as encouraging a high ethical and moral standard.
Mads and I read this together. The language was a little flowery, circa 1920, so I read most of it to her. This gave us a great chance to talk about the topics presented in each chapter. I honestly wish I had read this years ago myself. It's just full of basic truth about becoming a lovely lady and laying the foundation now.
