https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6441509-shadow-souls
Much like the previous book, Smith seems determined to cram a bunch of folklore and fairy tales clichés into Shadow Souls, and this time most of them fit into the messily-detailed dark-age other world she creates.
After decreeing that no sex is possible in the last novel, Elena’s not-quite-human aura seems to make Damon capable of feeling for/wanting from a woman something he has not felt in 500 years.
(It also foreshadows another tedious quest.) LJ Smith has successfully done one thing for me with this book: after waiting twenty years for more of the VD series, and Damon specifically, I no longer care what happens to these characters.
Oh my God. I completely loved this book!
It was all about Damon and Elena, and that's what I loved about it.
The Dark Dimension story plot with the kitsune keys was fascinating.What I do have to complain about is everything that's happening in Fell's Church.
The book is mainly about Damon and Elena getting Stefan back from Shi no Shi, right?
So why add the random story plot about what's happening back in their small town?
This is a great book!  Edit: August 7th, 2012I've Literally Been TYRING to read this novel for 2 freaking years! ITs sooo boring!  Edit: August 9th, 2012actually its not that bad, just lazy i guess
I used to love your books with the unsociable, unfathomable Stefan and the totally badass sexy Damon, but all that has happened now is that Stefan is some love-sick puppy dog where the only coherent sentences he can manage to put together is "Elena, I love you" and "Lovely little love." And as for Damon, his personality seems to be one written by a lame fan-fic writer who 'just wants everyone to be nice and get along'.
(Meredith so we can get a little more of her and Alaric, Elena because - well - her story's freaking over, and you just need to damn well accept that.) Bonnie and Matt travel with Damon to a hellish underworld, with Bonnie narrating and increasing tension building amongst the three as they try to stay alive long enough to free Stefan.
Bonnie/Matt/Damon, anyone?)Stop trying to be Gossip Girl crossed with Stephenie Meyer, and go back to writing awesome fiction.
love, jPS: Remember: When you catch yourself writing hot vampires with attack pets, you know it's fanfic.
This book was atrocious.I cannot comprehend how my favorite author has gone from such a tight, concise, intelligent writing style to one that reads like the worst kind of adolescent fan fiction.
If you are like me and have spent the better part of two decades adoring these characters and their world (and their author's other work), I implore you to avoid this book unless you want your heart broken, or you are a fan of juvenile sado-masochism, as there is a bizarre element of that here--but it is not hot or sexy or steamy.
I just finished Shadow Souls. Elena sounds so beutiful. but, i guess that the book and show are very different. Elena is not a brunett! Caroline is not a blonde! THe books are so much better than the show. sry but that is the truth.
There's nothing significantly bad about page 283, in case you're worried about spoilers, but I realized after reading 17 chapters that I simply couldn't take it anymore.I'm too old for this series.I bought the original series--the trilogy--when they were first published.
Reading the Return series for the first time as an adult, I don't have that rosy affection for it that I have for the original books.
It's not that there's anything wrong with this series; L.J. Smith's writing has not significantly improved or declined in the intervening years.
I've just grown to expect more depth from a book--even a YA title--than what's here.
I feel so awful that I didn't finish this book.
I love "The Vampire Diaries" TV Show.
I love it so much and the other books before this one aren't that bad.
So, like I said, I feel awful that I couldn't finish it.
I couldn't understand what was going on and got lost in so many parts.
I loved that Damon was the main focus on this and the beginning is pretty good.
I might read the next one, but if I start it and it goes like this book did, I probably won't read it either.
What the.. I was considering several times, the idea of simply abandoning this book! But, oh my God, the last 10 pages were just amazing! Like, although I'm NOT looking forward to see characters back in Dark Dimension AGAIN, I MUST read the next book. Inevitable.
Elena and Daman set themselves on a quest to rescue Stefan, along came Bonnie and Meredith, Elena's loyal friends; the three girls must pretend to be Daman's slaves in order to pass the gate to the demonic world, here came yet another episode of dark adventure.
*sighs* after reading Shadow Souls, all I can say is that I wish upon wish if only this book along with Nightfall are the first two books of a standalone new YA fantasy series by L J.
It's my 11 year old self reaching through the space-time continuum to make me read these sequels.
It's like L.J. Smith went and read a lot of fanfiction written by 12 year olds and thought "what my writing needs is more of that." Mystical wings, telepathy, cumbersome metaphors, angst, and lust, and more angst.
What I used to like about the character of Elena was that she was a flawed heroine.
But unless you got addicted to these characters at an early age like I did, there's no reason for you to suffer.
Totally loved the first few books until I got to the Shadow Souls.
Shadow Souls #2-- it was stupid, boring, and I felt pitiful taking time from my life to read them.
I wanted to see how the book would end.
Once I start reading a book, I have to read the ending or it will bug me forever.
There were alot of super UNREALISTIC things in the book like killer birds, freakish activities in Fell's Church, and such.
I enjoy your writing but I think the Shadow Souls books were...eh..alright.
Anyone know when the next book hits stores?
Where to start with this book and this review, maybe at the end.
Why, this author had an idea about pacing, about building plot, and suspense.
Bonnie is still moaning and MUTT is a mutt in this book, truth be told, I don’t know what they, yes I believe it is more than one author writing this trash tried to do.
So if you get stranded on an island with this book…… well duh, keep it with you and don’t come back.
I give this a one star review.
Simply because I can't give it no stars.I seriously think I missed the plot.
Shadow Souls begins with Damon, Matt and Elena on the road sparring with each other, while back in Fell’s Church, Bonnie and Meredith reluctantly make a visit to Caroline’s bedroom/den.
For instance, I had to reread Chapter 13, which starts with Damon driving, Elena riding shotgun, and Bonnie and Meredith in the back seat.
The chapter ends with Damon telling Elena that they should get back to Bonnie and Meredith.
The same can basically be said regarding the Fell’s Church/Matt/Mrs. Flowers/Caroline storyline.As for Damon, I wanted more scenes of tension and angst, as well as more moments of his dry wit, which I had enjoyed reading about in the original series.
What I love most about Shadow Souls is that the spotlight has been put to Damon.
Yes, Damon has been given a lot of "exposure" in Nightfall as well, but in Shadow Souls, I appreciated him even more.
And also, there are lots of smokin' scenes that happened between Damon and Elena, that, well, I kind of enjoyed too (at first).
I am now rooting for Damon-Bonnie loveteam.I like the new setting too - Dark Dimension.
I don't think Damon and Elena slept together (because of his comment about Unicorn bait).
I think what happened is something more personal for Damon.
I don't usually like to rate books unless I've read the rest of the series.
I think the only characters I still like are Bonnie and whatever character(s) is/are trying to kill them all.
It's almost like these books are a joke to her and she just wants to see how many people will keep reading this crap.
I think she could have pulled it off as another series entirely.
I've read, and own, a few of her other books to know as much.
than read another book in this series.
Unless you read it as a joke, than you'll have one hell of a time.
Even though a lot of the action takes place in the minds of Elena and Damon through telepathy the stories you find in them are so beatiful it reminded me of why I love reading her books in the first place.
You have to get through the first 20-30 pages where for some reason Smith decides she needs to try and summarize 5 previous novels to move forward with this story but after that...I'm happy with my purchase.
BAD.
So bad that I started a drinking game: every time something illogical or ridiculous happens, or Smith starts writing boring stuff, like describing girls dresses and jewelry, I took a shot.
That probably was the only reason I finished the book.
Though the ending was intriguing, and I'll probably make myself read the last book in the series.
Well, what can I say - I'm probably one of those masochistic people that just HAVE to finish series they started, even if they hated the first book.
I'm like that.
So here I come, last book of The return series!
Hasta aquí llego con esta saga, con mi saga favorita de la adolescencia. La saga original me encantó y el primero de la continuacion de Damon no estaba mal pero esto ya es infumable.Prefiero quedarme con el recuerdo de todo lo anterior que seguir leyendo esto a disgusto. He llegado a la página 280 y ya no puedo más.
The Dark Dimension is a world where vampire and demons roam free and humans are slave.
After a lot of effort, they finally manage to rescue Stefan.On the other hand, back in Fells Church, Matt joins forces with Mrs Flower to investigate the strange events happening in Fells Church and try to find out the plan of the kitsune twins who are behind that.When the gang return to Fells Church, Stefan receives a gift from the good kitsune who shared the cell with him in the Dark Dimension.
We are also introduced to the new world of Dark Dimension and its inhabitants as previous books focus on Fells Church.moreover,here is further development between Elena and Damon.They put more trust on each other and get closer.
I just thought this book was poorly done and L.J. Smith was in a hurry to finish.
And what was with Damon and Elena making out while the Elena's "true love" Stefan lies in a cold, dark, and moldy cell.
Yes, definitely that's true love right there.
I don't see why all the male characters(and female characters in this book) love Elena.
Damon as a human, and somehow I have a feeling that Elena and he will be even "closer" and who's knows maybe they will fall in love and live happily ever after.
Im not going to give a spoiler but the expected twist in L.J's books, is one that you would of never imagined.
From this book, I have learnt that a good book, is cunning but has sublte clues towards the twist at the end, while a great book, has a twist that will leave you breathless and with a palm shaped slap mark on your forhead from the 'durr' you expressed when you discovered the totally unforeseen twist.
L.J Smith has outdone herself, she has wrote a great book.
Όλοι μαζί, ξεκινάνε ένα μεγάλο κι επικίνδυνο ταξίδι, που κρύβει πολλές δυσάρεστες εκπλήξεις στην πορεία του, την ίδια ώρα που στο Φελς Τσερτς, το κακό, μοιάζει να έχει ξεφύγει από τον έλεγχο.Τα θετικά, ειδικά αν μπούμε στη διαδικασία να συγκρίνουμε το εν λόγω βιβλίο με το προηγούμενο, που ουσιαστικά αποτελούσε μια λανθασμένη εισαγωγή σε ένα νέο κεφάλαιο της ιστορίας, είναι πολλά.
Έχουμε με άλλα λόγια, ένα ουσιαστικό ψυχογράφημα που οδηγεί τελικά, σε δικαιολογημένες και ουσιαστικές αποφάσεις, που δεν κατευθύνονται από τον παρορμητισμό.Το μοναδικό αρνητικό χαρακτηριστικό που μπορώ να εντοπίσω στο βιβλίο, έχει να κάνει με τα γεγονότα που λαμβάνουν χώρα στο Φελς Τσερτς κατά την διάρκεια της απουσίας των βασικών χαρακτήρων σε μια άλλη διάσταση.
Elena, Damon and Matt are off to find Stefan who is locked away in a prison in some parallel hell like dimension.
Elena gets glimpses of who Damon really is on this road trip to hell.
Elena keeps falling deeper for Damon, regardless of her feelings for Stefan.
Things do get back on track though and the last quarter of the book finally gets into a better flow, the action increases and the ending had a great twist which made up for all the slowness of the 400 some pages before it.
In the book Vampire Diaries The Return: Shadow Souls by L.J. Smith, you follow Elena Gilbert’s journey to the Dark Dimensions in the search for her true love Stefan as she falls for his older brother Damon.Elena Gilbert is a hardworking teenager with a special aura.
Stefan Salvatore only wanted to become human fore Elena, but was tricked when Damon was possessed.
Her and her best friends Bonnie and Meredith must get to the Dark Dimensions, find both halves of the fox key, trust Damon with their lives, and survive long enough to free Stefan.Damon Salvatore is a womanizing vampire always dressed in black.
I forced myself to finish it because I had to know what happened despite my lack of interest in it (if that makes sense).I absolutely LOVED the first four VD in the series, but these last two, Nightfall and Shadow Souls are completely different.
I'm pretty pessimistic that I will enjoy it though.What I learned from this book...
That perhaps I didn't enjoy this book as much because, to be simply put, I'm not in high school anymore.L.J., if you read this, I still LOVE and ADORE you!!
I get it, Elena's beautiful and all, but she really should no longer act like such a spoiled brat.
She should act like she has more sense.
So I really didn't enjoy the last book...really, really didn't.
The lovely-love b.s. was too much, the non-verbal Elena was too much and there was not enough of Damon...ahhh Damon haha.
Well my wish came true and with sappy Stefan in prison we got to enjoy life without him and his lovely-love.
I read through this book in 3 days and have to admit that I quite enjoyed myself.
Sometimes I forget that these are teen books so alas, no hot Damon action but my adult mind can still go there!
Elena gets stronger, Damon gets sentimental (for Damon) and Bonnie doesn't faint too much (another annoyance).
Just plain ol' weird.I don't feel like I can make accurate judgments as to whether or not the plot good because 1.
I wanna laugh every time I read a scene because the writing is just that bad.
I can't take a damn thing in this book seriously.Maybe the plot was fine, maybe it was awful, but I KNOW the writing was.I'm not exaggerating.
Also, I feel like if any other popular author had written that scene, I would have liked it, but the way it was written, as I said before, made me scoff because of how bad it was.This series is getting worse and worse.
