https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/953962.Round_the_Bend
I love his work.
I have all 22 of the books he wrote from 1920 to 1960.
He is probably best known for On the Beach, a post nuclear war doomsday story.
Popular at the peak of the Cold War. This story, however, is a great read.
It is one of those kind of books that you'll be 50 pages into before you know it.
I LOVE those kind of books.
Most of Shute's books are about boy meets girl, boy goes off to war, then reunion.
Others love him, too.
Google Nevil Shute and you'll find fan clubs from around the world.
His philosophy seems to be "Forget prudence, justice, temperance, and fortitude; the real virtues are competence, practicality, honesty, and once somebody has demonstrated those, open-mindedness towards his possibly strange and foreign way of life." The real subject of the story emerges only very slowly and with increasing fascination--it is that his oldest friend and chief engineer seems to be some kind of religious nut who has gone "round the bend." He preaches a kind of mindful work ethic to his co-workers.
Done that way, it will be God's work.
Gradually the book has completely shifted from its apparent subject.
Just finished rereading this one, and it's my favorite Shute novel and one of my favorite books of all time, notwithstanding the sexism of the era and the rather quaint and patronizing view taken of "Asiatics".
For the time it was entirely enlightened.
Nevil Shute was a great writer and a wonderful person.
Aviation in his time did for those few people who pursued it what the internet does in ours for everyone: makes the world into our own small neighborhood.
To be a very good aircraft mechanic one must become a very good person.
It's not poetic or florid; more it's a quality of the way he scrutinises the emotions of his characters.
But under that quiet exterior there is turbulence indeed.The narrator of Round The Bend is Alan Cutter, an aircraft engineer, pilot and entrepreneur who starts an air freight business in Bahrain.
The story is the account of his friendship with Connie Shaklin, an engineer who founds a new religion.
This is the second novel of Shute's that I've read.
As with On The Beach, Round the Bend begins slowly and in an unassuming way.
The Bahrain airstrip is a stripped-down place of sand, hangars and engines.
In Indo-China the Viet-Minh forces were engaged in a similar rebellion against French rule ..."5/3/17 - Here's a quote I like :"By John AndersonPerhaps my favourite of all Shute's novels, "Round the Bend" contains many of his usual elements - aviation, enterprise, a mild love interest, and an unusual story very well told.Tom Cutter got into aviation the hard way before World War II, working his way up first in an Air Circus that toured England in the summer season, then with Airservice where he became a competent ground engineer, servicing planes all over the Middle East during the War. With the suicide of his wife just before his return to England, he cannot face going back to work at the aerodrome where they met, and he buys an old Fox Moth aircraft to charter out in Bahrein.
I didn't even know it was actually a book about religion, or really, about God more than religion, thank goodness, because otherwise I probably wouldn't have thought I'd like it much.
There's something I love about the just post-war novelists--this style was a bit similar to Jessica Mitford or Somerset Maugham, not in any tonal way, but in the sort of clipped dialog, and passages of very matter of fact description, and some of the lovely British slang of that period.
In addition to being completely ahead of his time in matters of religious understanding, tolerance of the Other, and male-female relationships, Nevil Shute is such a good storyteller.
Maybe the start of a Shute kick.
Post WW2, Shute is asking himself the fundamental questions of man's existence, through what starts off as an adventure story based on the life of a young Briton obsessed with aircraft.
The other main character is a charismatic young man - half Russian and half Chinese - who is a skilled aircraft engineer.
Shute and the characters he creates embark on what effectively becomes a search for religious enlightenment.
One of them finds his God.......in aircraft workshops.
It might seem a sort of Zen and the Art of Aircraft Maintenance, but it's not as weird as it sounds.
My favorite Shute book. A no-nonsense engineer grapples with the disturbing possibility that his best airplane mechanic may in fact be an incarnation of the Messiah. Imagine Richard Bach’s “Illusions,” except not written by a drugged-up hippie. Now visualize “Atlas Shrugged," except not written by a fascist propagandist. Mix non-violently and you have this weird, compelling, unique fable about a man trying to reconcile Modernism with Mysticism, finding spiritual value in technical precision, and grudgingly opening up to the possibility of the divine.
Nevil Shute is a great writer and much more subtle and seductive than might be expected. A plain-spoken man tells his life story which includes the story of his dealings with a life-long friend and a transcendent spiritual experience is the result. No one who has ever read the book on the basis of my recommendation has ever expressed disappointment.
Institutional racism, condescension and paternalism are the norm: Cutter has to go cap in hand to an aircraft company to buy one of their planes, despite clearly being able to pay for it; the 'British Resident' in Bahrain censures him for accepting a business loan offered by a wealthy local Sheikh; the preacher Connie Shaklin is all but deported by the same panjandrum because of his closeness to the local people and their religion.Shute saw and challenged the absurdities and injustices of these aspects of his 'own' world, and by extension the inevitability of change, including that effected by armed anticolonial actions taking place at the time, the late 1940s: Cutter first employs Shaklin when his previous boss, an American running guns to Vietnamese and Indonesian rebels, is imprisoned.
Nevil Shute is one of my favorite authors. Round the Bend is an adventure/romance novel set in the first half of the 20th Century. It explores the themes of friendship, the early days of civil aviation, discrimination & prejudice, and how humanity might respond to a new Prophet or Manifestation were he to appear in the middle of the 20th century. My personal preference is the unabridged audiobook version. But Nevil Shute is not a difficult author to read and I am sure my friends would enjoy this book.
Absolutely fascinating... the best rationale of religion as a reason for diligence and pride in one's work, and above all, the tale of a messianic figure who really inspires but never gets swept away by the adulation he commands. But the narrator is no less a hero, for his diligence and openness, which is remarkable for the time he is in... A grand narrative of the changing postwar world and one of the best works of this master story-teller...
An aircraft engineer inadvertently starts a cult that spreads across the Eastern world, with believers travelling thousands of miles to hear him speak of God and engine maintenance.Is Connie, born of a Russian mother and Chinese father and always interested in religion, really round the bend? Is he the prophet who will save the world? Or is he just a good man and efficient engineer?Like most of Nevil Shute's ideas, it's simple, yet wacky, and he narrates the story in a way that keeps you reading even though its progress is gentle and undramatic.
I have read every book by Mr. Shute and the screenplay I am aware of, and he remains my favorite author.
I think this book is his best, and it remains my favorite book I have ever read.Perhaps what I like best is that is seems the last kind of book a post-Victorian English Man would have written, especially one born into the “upper middle class”.
He treats the "non-Europeans" like people, and not "wogs".
He shows disdain for Europeans who do treat people like "wogs".
It (the story) calls attention to injustice in many forms (especially racism and religious intolerance) and shows that people of good intention can affect solutions to common problems.
The novel is rather like a tedious log of flying and buying various planes as he builds his own flying business in the Middle East and Asia from his home airfield of Bahrain -- an island nation in the Persian Gulf (had to look this one up, I confess) -- which was not yet independent from Great Britain at the time of this book soon after WWII.In the later parts of the book, Connie (a male), a partly Chinese character from very early in the novel, become a quasi-religious figure venerated by Muslims (especially those involved in aircraft maintenance) across a very wide area with the area.
This is the fourth book of Nevil Shute that I have read.
Shute is a wonderful writer and story teller and his books are so intelligent and wise.
It is worth reading this book because it can give the reader an understanding of the world after the 2nd World War. The book was written in 1956 and it is incredible how things have changes in not such a very long time.
It is difficult to believe that less than 60 years ago, as Shute describes in his book, an aeroplane could not land in Australia because it was maintained by an Asian crew.
I picked up an old hardback edition of this book for about fifty cents at a local book fair in Oakland about 45 years ago, having no idea what joy this author would be bringing me in the years to come.
Like all of Nevil Shute's books, it is a quick, thoroughly engrossing read.
The value of the religious aspect for me is that it shows how quickly people can become caught up in new religious or spiritual ideas and ideals.
For me, though, this was just a damn good story, and one I couldn't put down, as I find to be true for any of Shute's books.
Ordinary people doing extraordinary things-without even realizing it! I have collected all of Shute's books over the years and have enjoyed reading them many times. This is his best. Tom Cutter sets out to make a living in the airplane business and is successful doing so in the Middle East. THe real story is Connie Shaklin, his chief mechanic and his development as a messianic figure and the prejudice he encounters to his message.
This book was completely different from what I expected, even several chapters in. It starts out as a quaint book that shows the really weird way Europeans thought of the world and "Asiatics" just after World War II - the author is so 1940's/50's British in the language that he uses. But, somehow it turns into a story about how an ordinary, but good, man can become divine. It's a plausible scenario for what happened to other "prophets" in antiquity, but in a relatively modern setting.
One of nevil Shute's very best, right up there with "A Town Like Alice" and "In the Wet". While the story takes place in the world of men and avaition, as is the case with so much that Shute wrote, it also ventures quite far into the realm of the spiritual and the profound impact that exposure to middle east and south asian cultures can have upon "western" man.
Wonderful read, in Shute's methodical style. Yes, it gets a little spiritual, but that rings true. I had an engineer friend who worked on projects in east Africa. The town used to gather in silence to watch him practice tai chi in the morning, because they thought he must be a holy man.
An airplane mechanic and pilot goes to the Arabian Gulf to seek his fortune after World War II. He reunites with an old friend...who may be the next Enlightened One...who is also and airplane mechanic. This is a thought-provoking book by a writer whose work has influenced me in many ways.
This is a mesmerizing tale of East meets West. This is the second time I've read this book and I realized during this reading what a fantastic story-teller Mr. Shute was. I highly, highly recommend this book.
[9/10]
He decides that he might get himself a small airplane and start up a flying service in the Middle East, Bahrain.
He runs into his old friend Connie Shaklin, who was maintaining the planes for the gunrunner.
That pisses off the British colonial rulers in the Middle East, and they try to shut Tom down, but back off when the Sheik threatens to cut off the oil...or something.
But, the important part, actually, is about Connie and his unique methods for airplane maintenance.
The other ground engineers take up the teachings, and as they disperse to other jobs through out the Middle East, they disseminate Connie's teachings.
Shute's Siddhartha, a man named Connie Shaklin, barely factors into the story at all until about 65% into the book.
In fact, vast majority of the book is populated by painstaking details of the protagonist's aviation business — how much money was made, which countries he expanded to, which local official he had tea with, what time he met with the official, how long they stayed for lunch, who else he visited along the way, who he had to talk to to acquire a more planes, etc.
I don't feel like Tom Cutter, the protagonist, is in any way changed by the end of the book.
A Lesson In Taking Advantage of 'Foreigners' and How To Use Religion to Manipulate People.This book is so matter-of-fact, I will write my review as much like it as possible.
He says working hard is like being with God. Which means that the first-person narrative character has a low wage staff who work extra hard because they think that God has told them to.
There might have been a love story too, but it is less important than the planes.As an unintended critique of how religion is a tool to control the masses, it works really well.
I sort of enjoyed this book.
I cringed at some of the racial language, but you do have to bear in mind the prevailing attitudes at the time, and I think this would have been fairly enlightened for back then (ditto for the patronisation of the female characters.The book was interesting, although you could see the minor twist at the end coming a mile off- but at least that did give a purpose to the whole thing.
The book lost me a bit in the final third though.
I slogged on to the end though, and I will try more of his work as he seems popular according to the reviews.
I am usually all about the feelings, but I strangely enjoyed this novel about planes, the Middle East, Asia, attitudes to race and marriage just after WWII.
Tom Cutter is a practical, dispassionate sort of fellow who loves planes, and after the war and a disappointment in love (much more tragic than that makes it sound, but he was very cool about it), he ends up running a charter business in the Middle East.
One of his old friends, a Eurasian man, comes to be his ground engineer, and ends up a religious figure, based on his work ethic.
I have yet to read a book by Nevil Shute that I don't like. This one was, as usual with Nevil Shute, thought-provoking and an easy-read at the same time. You really get to like the narrator, Tom Cutter, though I disagree with a lot of his ideas. The story revolves around Tom and his friend/colleague Connie Shaklin. Connie slowly gathers a religious following among aircraft engineers without really setting out to do so at all. The novel puts forth a lot of ideas and questions about religion and cultural differences that are still very current.
