https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/260740.A_Live_Coal_in_the_Sea
The teen romantic in me wanted Camilla to end up with her first love, and that she would marry someone else seemed like a betrayal.I know more now (thank goodness) and so when I rediscovered this sequel to "Camilla," right after I had finished re-reading that book with an adult perspective, I was thrilled.
And while it seems like a part of her knows that she shouldn't use this to validate her worth, she still believes in this image of woman as the domestic goddess in her solitary domain.A lot of this book is about marriage, but also on all the ways our parents mess us up, as the two things seem to be tied up together.
Synopsis:Camilla Dickinson shares the complex story of her life with granddaughter Raffi, whose father’s erratic behavior and insinuating remarks have prompted her to question her identity.
The choices, actions, and sufferings of previous generations, and their far-reaching ramifications, are brought to light as Camilla and her close friend Luisa share their memories with Raffi.
Through the process, Raffi learns not only the facts about herself and her family, but also the truth that love and mercy are stronger than sin and deceit.Comments:Marital infidelity and sexual abuse are prominent elements in the history of this family.
A bit of a soap opera, written by a woman whom I am guessing is brilliant in science and really does make math patterns in her head to relax, as she has one of her characters do.
General good is the plea of the scoundrel, hypocrite, and flatterer, for Art and Science cannot exist but in minutely organized particulars." (Blake) I am also thinking that this book should be read by people who make decisions in family courtrooms regarding the disposition of children.
Taxi's story didn't need to happen that way.
Superbly crafted family saga. Reading Madeleine L'Engle once again is like slipping back into a comfortable shoe. Although many of the themes are uncomfortable, one downright disturbing, her ability to to write in such a way to make a story understandable and enjoyable is rarely found. Although I don't share in many of her beliefs I enjoy her theories and her work immensely. "A Live Coal in the Sea" is a beautiful novel with only a few minor flaws in plot worth overlooking for the grand work as a whole.
I wanted to read this because I like the young adult novel, 'Camilla.' This was the follow-up to Camilla's life after the first book ended with her about 16 years old.
I enjoyed the writing style and story of Camilla and thought that it was set in the 1960s, since I could identify with some of the events, although I didn't grow up in a city.The first difference with 'A Live Coal...' is that this novel is an adult fiction, not young adult.
Madeleine L'Engle was an amazing author. How could she write so honestly, so deeply with such grace and truth? This was such a powerful novel!
L’engle is one of my favorite children’s authors. I read her books to my sons years ago and we all enjoyed them. This book is not of the same quality. The story drags with too many sermonettes and it’s melancholy tone permeates the pages. I was determined to finish it, hoping she would return to the richness of her children’s literature, but to no avail. Sometimes one learns to let things go without wasting time; I didn’t learn that lesson with this book.
One of the things that I always loved about L'Engle is the way she manages to insert religion and morality into stories, both her kids and adult books, without it being the central focus or coming across as preaching.
This one, an adult novel, was preceded by a YA book called Camilla that I may seek out to see what an earlier L'Engle wrote of the earlier Dickinson.
It will have me remembering to seek out some of the other L'Engle books I've not yet read in the future.
As it is officially summer and I am trying to breeze through as many novels as possible before I start graduate school and have (yuck!) required reading, I thought I might try Madeline L'Engle.
It was published in the mid-80's but takes place in the 60's and I just couldn't relate to the characters very well.
Part of it was the main character's refusal to stand up for herself and what she needed and that being interpreted as "strength." I just didn't feel like it translated well to the modern woman.
So I took that, and other L'Engle book back to the library.
Although I've been a L'Engle fan since childhood, I'm glad I didn't discover this book until now, because I wouldn't have been able to appreciate it fully.
It is for those who have been broken, who have come face to face with the world's brokenness, and their own deep need for mercy.
He was able to be merciful to himself, and to teach us to be merciful, too.
He believed that God's redeeming love can come into the most terrible things, and while I do not have the kind of radiant faith that [he] had, I believed him."
The book however does have some very interesting mediations on science and religion, and how - at least in the persons and lives of the main family in the book - they can be reconciled, or at least harmoniously co-exist.
The deep dark secret of this family drama is slowly and painfully revealed, as is the centrality of the metaphor encapsulated in the title.
In the end, the book is about family, marriages, children and ultimately, the quality of mercy.What i found really difficult with this book was what to me felt like incredibly stilted dialogue.
An interesting and thought provoking read, at any rate.
Even though the content was hard and felt like swallowing heavy rocks, I think it was good for me to read.
I think it's good for us young marrieds to read about couples who've made their marriages work through crappy times, hard times, dealing with pain.
Not knowing what pain Nayt & I may need to endure later, it is comforting to read about Art & Olivia, about Mac & Camilla: couples who have bravely decided to tell the truth, to be raw, to be real with each other.
You must read Camilla Dickinson first to get a good sense of the pain in Camilla's past.
An ambitious book by the author of A Wrinkle In Time (a personal childhood favorite); this story of interconnectedness, mercy, forgiveness and a belief system able to embrace the wonders of both clear-headed science and an Almighty God, is admirable in concept if not entirely successful (IMO) in its execution.
I'm not entirely comfortable with the ending.
I wonder at Camilla's troubled son Taxi's joy in discovering, finally, his blood father's identity.
Why, with all the transience of emotion in this man's life, we are expected to believe that this will be a key, a source of happiness that will somehow allow him to rise above the debris of his youth and permanently calm his inner windstorms.
I love Madeleine L'Engle's Wrinkle in Time series so I thought I'd give one of her adult books a try.
Pros- she develops her characters thoughtfully.
They are three-dimensional characters with faults and strengths and each character is shown doing things within and outside of their moral scope, much like in real life.
She has a remarkable ability to incorporate her spirituality and beliefs without being offensive or overbearing and without the book reading like a crappy religious novel.Cons- this book read like a soap opera.
Every family has their dark little secrets and none of them are perfect but really?!!
Short Review: I liked this, especially since it was written about 45 years after the first book in the series and approximately 45 years passed in the time of the story.
This is Camilla in her mid to late 60s.
There is a twist that I didn't expect at the end and that solved the book a little too neatly for my taste.
Especially since the book as a whole seemed to focus on the messiness of the actual world.
I have one reservation about the book that is pretty spoiler-y.
Madeleine L'Engle is my new chain-reading author.
After being woefully disappointed in AS Byatt, I needed a pick-me-up.
So, in honor of the life of one of my favorite adolescent lit authors, I decided to do a little more ma-toor reading of this one.L'Engle writing is so full of love.
Her dialogue can seem awkward at times, but it is written so lovingly that I find its awkwardness adorably open and honest.
This book deals with a very complex family tree, and skillfully flows from past to present to further past and back.
Though full of pain, it is so beautifully written that every page is a pleasure.
I generally prefer L'Engle's fantasy stories and Crosswicks journals to her more contemporary stories, so I started reading this book one evening around 9, planning to read until I fell asleep.
I finished it in tears at 2am.
The title comes from a quote: "All the wickedness in the world which man may do or think is no more to the mercy of God than a live coal dropped in the sea." The novel shows how this is true in the intertwined stories of two families; great evil is done on both sides, and many people are hurt (as tends to happen in life), and while the damage does not disappear, great good is brought out of it.
An unforgettable book.
I read it because I like other books she wrote, but had to force myself to finish it. I guess the teachings about love and mercy were nice, but I just didn't like the book.
The novel flashes back and forth in time; in the present, Camilla and her granddaughter are talking about her family history, after Camilla's son, Taxi, implies to his daughter that Camilla might in fact not be her biological grandmother; in flashbacks, we see the many family members and friends from Camilla's past that help contextualize Taxi's passive aggressive suggestion.The theme of the book is mercy: "But all the wickedness in the world which man may do or think is no more to the mercy of God than a live coal dropped in the sea." Lots of things that Camilla's family members do cause her pain, and deep anger, especially actions by her husband and her son (Mac has a tendency to run away, or close in on himself, when things get tense; Taxi strikes out in anger, both verbal and occasionally physical, when he feels insecure).
Early in the book (around the 9% mark), we learn that Camilla's mother was having an affair with her astronomy professor, Grantley "Red" Grange.
Also, his name is absolutely beautiful.And then came the last half of the book, and he can just take his lovely hair and shove it.
Of course, it never listens, and I fall in love with everyone.On a different note, this book kept throwing punches and twists at me.
The book even seemed to support my theory for most of the way, before turning in a similar, but different direction.
People love differently.
"Perhaps this is science, I gather you're quite scientific, but the young people are supposed to be given religion during their youth group meetings.
I was shocked by what my nephew Gordie told me.""But don't you see," Camilla urged, "this is religion.
It's an affirmation of the wonderful interdependence of the universe.""Mrs. Xanthakos, we expect the young people to study what is in the Bible."But, seriously this is so flipping soapy.
It really falls in the "it was okay" two-star camp...but my reading experience was better because this book pushes James Patterson down one more notch on my GR Most Read Authors list.
With L'Engle's deft touch, this stormy story of overcoming family dysfunction and abuse is brightened with references to the stars, astronomy and even math (strange for me to say that, I've never liked math!) and delicate analogies drawn between them and life.
Art was a man who was able to break the chain of abuse in his family, but his grandson Taxi seemed to be an example of someone who couldn't overcome the damage done to him, though the very ending seemed to hint that maybe he was finally recognizing his weakness.
I tried reading this book because I wanted to branch out and try new things.
The pacing was weird and I did not understand the point the whole time.
I don't know if I just did not find it relateable enough, but every new plot point they discussed, seemed shooed in and unnecessary.
The one thing I think that was particularly wrong was glanced over very abruptly.
I wonder if reading the first book would make the story make any more sense, but I'm not going to find out.
If the reader were looking for a biblical value to describe this book it would be the concept that the effects of the sins of the fathers and mothers are passed down through the generations.
The waves from the parent's and grandparent's choices threaten to swamp some of the book's younger characters.
The story is told through the eyes of Camilla who is opening up the Pandora's box of the past to her granddaughter.
While no one is perfect in this story, Camilla is noteworthy for her ability to make the most of awful situations, neither living in bitterness nor passivity.
Still, I enjoyed this one much more than Camilla and I liked being tangled up in the different generations of characters and trying to wander my way out of them.
Although, in the end I was a little unsatisfied because I felt like this book (and maybe this was the issue with Camilla too?) lacked the palpable love you could feel between family members in other L'Engle books.
The only character I believed Camilla really loved was Olivia.
With everyone else I didn't feel it was built in a believable way.
I only just realized that L'Engle wrote a follow up to one of my favorite YA novels, Camilla.
It's great to see how these characters have aged and matured while remaining true to who they were at 15.
The plot is a bit soap-opera-y, but one of the characters is a soap opera star, so I think L'Engle knew what she was up to.
Yes, the dialog is overly refined and characters always seem to have an apt quote from Blake or some other English poet at the ready, but I'm a sucker for that sort of thing.
This is a soap opera. It starts off being about a middle aged teacher who has just won a prestigious award for her work in astronomy. The story goes back and forth through time as we learn all about her life and those around her. Sometimes the writing was a little too wordy and I don't know anyone who converses like the relatives in this novel, always intellectual thoughts in complete grammatically correct sentences, but the book was interesting enough for me to finish.
This was not what I expected. I really liked her Wrinkle in Times series but her adult fiction is very adult. It was arduous to read this intense R-rated family drama/tragedy with multiple dysfunctional family members. There are strong protagonists with good values & lives of hope but most are striving. It ended well, which was a pleasant reward for my finishing it.
Spectacular book about family dynamics, forgiveness, mercy and redemption. L’Engle’s writing style is magnificent and beautiful. She draws you in to the story like you are experiencing it in real life. Her style reminds me of another favorite author, Elizabeth Goudge. I highly recommend this book. I know I will return to it again and again. So much wisdom for life.
This is an inter-generational family drama that makes a soap opera seem tame. It's told in a flashback fashion, so while it has a plot and moves along, it also had a gentle pacing that works well. It's technically a sequel to the 1951 Camilla, and while it's not technically required to read that one (and it's kind of meh), it really added depth and dimension to A Live Coal in the Sea.
