https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149611.The_Last_Frontier
I enjoy his books but sometimes find the narrative irritating and repetitive.
Characterisation, which is the element of fiction I most enjoy, is thin almost to the point of stereotype.
It filled a space of time for me, but this type of fiction has probably had its day and had more significance and meaning when it was produced (the edition I read was published 1968) at the height of the tensions between East and West.It recalled many similar novels and passed a few hours in a hotel lounge.
But, if you like your fiction full of improbable challenges with your hero set against unlikely odds, you'll probably enjoy this one.
What I disliked about this book:The protagonist is unconvincing in his 'best man for the job' designation.
He makes basic and glaring errors repeatedly (he basically blunders through the entire book), he is subverted within a few days by his Hungarian contacts (suggesting the UK didn't bother to screen agents), and he becomes emotionally involved with a woman in the middle of a job (see: romance novels for men).
More of MacLean's garrulous villains, more than matched by the protagonists in this book.
It seemed like half the novel involved Reynolds being lectured by his contact who was trying summarize Animal Farm using twice as many words.
Surprisingly enough, although the Communists and the AVO are clearly the "bad guys" in MacLean's novel, the author takes pains to make us understand that the Russian people themselves are not to blame; as Jansci remarks, they are "likable, cheerful, and gay...there are no friendlier people on earth." The underground leader helps us understand the paranoid Communist leaders' mentality (even anticipating the Cuban missile crisis of two years later), and later gives Jennings, in an oral disquisition that takes up five full pages, a moving argument on the necessity for coexistence.
3.5I didn't know what I would be finding in this book, as it was the first time I read something like this.
But I enjoyed the experience, and even though it could have been better, I am quite satisfied with the story, the characters and their past, but, most of all, with the ending, which, after a few disappointments, I think was refreshing.
All in all, it was a good read and it feels good to be back on track.
Κατασκοπίας με ελληνικό τίτλο "το τελευταίο σύνορο".Ποτισμένο στην δυτική προπαγάνδα, τυπικό της κατηγορίας του, με λυτρωτική κατάληξη που αποζητούσε ο βασανισμένος κόσμος τότε. Ο αγαπημένος τους συγγραφέας των κανονιών του Ναβαρόνε δεν τους απογοητεύει κι εδώ με το γνωστό ψυχροπολεμικό κλίμα ως πασπαλισμένη ζαχαρόσκονη.Όλα αυτά στην μετά εποχή του ΒΠΠ. Το βιβλίο γράφτηκε το 1959. Ωραίο για τότε.Σήμερα...σήμερα μυρίζει έντονα ναφθαλίνη. Και την επόμενη φορά καλά θα κάνω, όσα μυρίζουν έντονα ναφθαλίνη, να τα αφήνω εκεί που τα βρήκα. Στο μπαούλο του παππού.
This was a deep book, and it took awhile to finish. It wasn't boring, but certainly not fast-paced. The philosophy is so good, and the Count and Jansci characters so amazing, that this is a book to remember.It is odd to read a Dick Lit Book that preaches loving one's fellow men, seeing beyond cultures and stereotypes to what is most important, and that advocates against revenge (while still doing everything in one's power to protect loved ones and friends from harm). Most of these I pass on, this one I will keep.
Alistair MacLean is probably the author that started me reading books in the first place! I do re-read some favourites from time to time (and some that I have forgotten that they maybe weren't really worth another go...) and some of them, in particular the earliest ones, do have something that makes them worth the few hours it takes. "The Last Frontier", or "Secret ways" in the US, is one of them. A relentless and brutal thriller set in cold-war Hungary.
If this is the same book that was also titled The Secret Ways, it was good.
Better then James Bond and Jason Bourne put together, atleast this story makes sense with human emotions and last minute fallacies (that are bound to happen but are glossed over in other spy novels.
In this mission, he has the help of certain locals; mainly a former Soviet military general named Jansci and an insider within the AVO, known as The Count.The novel follows the standard template MacLean uses; a near impossible mission, a romantic sub-plot, and an absolute hate rant against those whom the protagonist is against.
I also appreciate the fact that the author chose Hungary as the place for setting the novel considering, there is a lot of literature available on oppression in Communist regimes, mainly by Soviet Union and I have even read one, in Romania (The Land of Green Plums) but there is very little available on Hungary.
A transitional work in the MacLean canon: his first three novels were war novels in which the sea featured almost as a character in its own right.
‘The Last Frontier’ changed things: it was set contemporarily (late 50s communist Hungary), it had nothing to do with seafaring, and it introduced what would become a staple of MacLean’s lesser works - the protagonist as cypher rather than character.
And while MacLean delivers set piece after set piece for the last seventy pages, the first of these - a vertiginous scene on the roof of a trans-Hungarian express train - is miles away the best, and the novel seems to flag as it lumbers through fifty more pages.
When I read this book for the first time, I was a very young impressionable guy, and a huge fan of Alistair MacLean.
The book is overall rather slow with the characters , feeling like cardboard.
It’s now almost a quarter century later and my opinion of the book has not improved, it was as lackluster as i remembered it.
There was certainly a reason I never reread the book before, now I remember.
Just try books like golden Rendezvous, the dusty way to death, hms Ulysses.

I thought I had read all of his books as a teen but came across this as an ebook title in our library.
I often thought about whether anyone read any MacLean these days, as he was very popular in the 60s and 70s.
This was the first of his books I had read in 40 years.
Parts of it read like if Ayn Rand wrote a James Bond pastiche.
So this might not be the best MacLean to start with, but parts of it reminded me why I liked him so much growing up.
Didn't seem like MacLean's book at all - still plenty of violence and action, but still, it made you think more than usual. Don't think I'd recommend it for the most part.
Amazing thriller.
I remember when I got this book in a small lending library in a city now awash with floods.
I remember the day I read this book, we had something special for lunch - it was spicy beef roast I think.
Anyway, it was a memorable day - and even after so many decades, it was an unforgettable read.
No one writes thrillers the way Maclean does.
He has a great portfolio of excellent thrillers.
His writing style is brilliant and the way he handles suspense no one can beat him.
No wonder many of his books became movies.
There is a reason why this books earns a place in all time favorites' shelf.
The story is a compact page turning classic and I still cry over some parts of the book.
The book centers around a rescue attempt of a scientist who has probably been tortured which a lone British agent has to undertake.
Based in 1950's in Austria-Hungary.
One of the most wonderful parts is when Jansci gives this talk about Russians.
I still love the narrative style of the book.
If you have read Maclean you would know his signature style is brevity and fast-paced action.
This wasn't my favourite Alistair MacLean thriller. In this one, we find British agent, Reynolds, sneaking into Hungary during the Cold War, with the aim of bringing out British scientist, Jennings. Reynolds gets into trouble almost immediately but with the help of Hungarian underground, Janszi, the Major and their team, he continues with his mission. Reynolds continues to get into predicaments, but with the help of his new friends must try and get Jennings. There is a fair bit of action, but also considerable pontificating, on Communism, misunderstandings between nations, etc. As I say, not my favourite, but still entertaining.
I liked this book.
It's a classic tale about a spy tasked to convince a prominent scientist to defect to the West and assist with scientific advancement in the interest of peace.
Filled with the shocking plot twists that one comes to expect of Maclean, this book really kept me on the edge of my seat throughout.
My only complaint is that this crack spy who is sent on this message seems a bit too inept for his reputation from time to time; the plot twists seemed to depend on this a bit too much at times.
Still, it was a fun read.
Exciting at times, but mostly formulaic and predictable. The philosophical discussions are hackneyed and lacking depth. The characters also lack depth, caricatured to the point where it feels like they were taken from a comic book.Overall, not a terrible read. It's entertaining if you're willing to look past its flaws.
terrific starting of book.....I thought it will be a heart gripplling book throughout......but interest fades as the story goes on....but good manipulating of thrill and plot throughout .... I found the ending a bit emotional and surprizing.....and in some manner silly......but its a good book however
I was surprised to like it as much as I did. The copy I picked up had the wonderful old book smell. It was an old spy novel, with all the old macho guy toughness, including the kiss to maintain cover that turns into a romantic kiss. This was like watching a classic black and white movie and I loved it! It was nice to read a good, clean story.
My favorite Alistair MacLean. The right mix of action, thought, and character development (with some unforgettable characters). Even the romantic subplot is handled far better than in most of his books. If the few pages about Communism bore you, skip them and enjoy the rest of the story. See my full review on my website: http://AlistairMacLean.com.
It never ever felt like MacLean! No thrills, no suspense. A protagonist who is called to be immaculately trained and yet falls in traps like a new born babe, who can't even storm a room armed with a carbine, who expresses surprise at the most common of events. Completely, utterly out of character.Can't rant more without spoilers......but there are no spoilers with this book!!!
Well, not really finished, just done with it. I've read Maclean's books years ago and remember them as breezy spy adventures, and this one started off as such, but then became a political discussion of Russia, Hungary, and Europe in general. Interesting to a point and then relentlessly boring. I guess I'll be more careful next time which one I choose.
Definitely not his best effort. I found it to be very slow moving and often times extremely predictable. Really enjoyed one particular character, but the main character left a great deal to be desired.
As expect with Maclean, couldn't put the book down. Great story line. No dull moments. Political sections tended to drag on. Some areas I skipped 3 pages of communism talk and lost nothing from the story.
Action from page one. Thriller. A plot around the cold-war era. Sometimes description around communism sounds too boring, for people like me who have read much about it, but for the younger generation that may be a good eye opener on the eastern versus western front.
Action from page one. Thriller. A plot around the cold-war era. Sometimes description around communism sounds too boring, for people like me who have read much about it, but for the younger generation that may be a good eye opener on the eastern versus western front.
A different sort of Alistair MacLean spy adventure, set in Cold War Hungary. It offers all the tension-filled scenes you expect, with a bit of geopolitical philosophy thrown in. It's a good bedtime read.
My first AM novel. Fun! Kind of like the bastard child of Len Deighton and Doc Savage. This protagonist makes so many stupid decisions -- by his own admission -- that I started to wonder how smart he was. But I still enjoyed the hell of out it.The first third of the book is 6*.
