https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1983755.The_Life_and_Death_of_Harriett_Frean
She took that advice to her heart and lived her life quietly, at all cost trying to satisfy parents’ expectations, rejecting own chance for love, not noticing damages she made on her way because in front of her eyes there continually were parents and Hatty always wanted to be like her Mamma.
And when you reach last page and consider Harriett's empty life only then you can fully comprehend ironic overtone of nursery rhyme the novel starts with:Pussycat, Pussycat, where have you been I’ve been to London, to see the Queen.
I got this from the notorious 1001 Books you Must Read or We Will Put Your Household Pets in a Food Blender We Are Serious.
I know some people do not like that list much but this slender bitter novel from 1922 would have otherwise passed me by completely.This novel is a ferocious yet so genteelly understated attack on that exalted Victorian female virtue of self-denial.
The more unhappy you are because you’re not doing anything you want to do the happier you are because you know you’re such a good good good person.
This could well be the banner for living a life of quiet desperation.  May Sinclair 1898 (Mary Amelia St. Clair, 1863-1946)Superficially, it is a nothing little book: a child is born, grows up leading a quiet, privileged life, and then seventy-odd years later dies as quietly as a falling leaf. That is the story. Nothing happens. Nothing moves. No breath of wind. No rustling skirt. No shouting children. No gnashing of teeth. No joy. No pain. Nothing. As smooth as proverbial glass, this life unfol
May Sinclair 1898 (Mary Amelia St. Clair, 1863-1946)Superficially, it is a nothing little book: a child is born, grows up leading a quiet, privileged life, and then seventy-odd years later dies as quietly as a falling leaf.
And yet, there is no hell like this one.Reflective of the privileged "nothing lives" of women who had no choice or voice in a previous era, it is just as effective today, albeit for different reasons; for at that time, it was a still life of a woman; today, it is the most horror-laden of cautionary tales.Oh, what the hell.
"Pussycat, Pussycat, where have you been?"I've been to London, to see the Queen."Pussycat, Pussycat, what did you do there?"I caught a little mouse under the chair."Baby Harriett (Frean) laughs everytime her mother recites this to her.
If you read this when old, you'd pray that you won't remember.
Or if you remember, that there'd be nothing now which would tell you that some things you've done in the past, especially those you thought were right or beautiful or principled were actually horrible mistakes or acts of cruelty or selfishness.An hour or so is all what you need to finish reading this book, but it may take you one lifetime to forget it.
She is brought up in a particular way and to behave properly; here is her father speaking to her;“His arm tightened, drawing her closer.
She would stoop over the cot and lift Harriett up, and her face would be hidden in curls.
They played till Papa said, “No more!” and tucked the blankets tight in.“Now you’re kissing like Mamma—””Harriet idealises her parents; as most children do; but most children grow out of that idealisation, Harriet doesn’t.
It does, however enable the reader to see how Harriet supresses her own feelings and desires.
Her parents remain with her as does the expectations she feels society has of her.
The graceful, simple writing wastes no time in making understood Harriett Frean's upbringing, her idolization of her mother and the desire to emulate a passed down sense of beauty and moral courage. This book will stick with me, I will probably analise Harriett's life with more interest than she did.
I reread The Life and Death of Harriett Frean for my thesis, as Sinclair is an author whom I am focusing on. I loved the book the first time around, and my second encounter with it was no different. First published in 1922, elements of the novella feel incredibly modern. I love the way in which Harriett is followed from her early childhood until her last days. Sinclair's account of the life of a fictionalised Victorian woman, who goes against gender stereotypes in several ways, is a joy and delight; her characterisation is exquisite.
As a denunciation of the Victorian-era ideal daughter, dutiful to the point of total self-negation, this probably had considerable bite in its era. Nowadays, the protagonist seems almost mythologically empty, unable and unwilling to ever form any personality, goals, or really any relationship to the world whatsoever beyond a veneration of her father and the love she heroically (destroyingly) denied herself. In its singleminded satire of a long-buried standard, I found it totally depressing, stifling, but perhaps illuminating of that certain (stifling, depressing) mindset.
An entire lifetime in 138 pages. A concise, poignant look at the dangers of being who we think we should be rather than truly living.
She ends up being and old stiff spinster afraid of changes, afraid of being too far of her house, annoyed at her friends, and she puts her life in the hands of a maid Maggie who is the total opposite of what she was at her age.----------------------When I was a very young child, i made a promise to myself to never become like my parents (or any other old folk for that matter) - or any stoic adult for that matter - but as i grow older, i can definitely see that whatever i do, i will become a grumpy old twat.
She wrote over 23 novels, 39 short stories, a couple poetry collections, and some crucial literary criticism.
Along with all this her books were actually popular and sold well back then.
Now let's dive into the actual book.
Sinclair manages to create a really confrontational novel while keeping it subtle enough to get it published and interesting enough to attract mainstream success (at least at that time).
While Sinclair's female characters aren't as much fun as Agatha Christie's unapologetic, spunky Tuppence, they're still so important in a feminist context.
This is crucial because we can't forget that the majority of the women of this time suffered in silence.
The title says it all...The story started when Harriett Frean was a baby and her mother cooed over her, reciting a nursery rhyme.
If the author had made the title "The Life and Death of Spinster Harriett Frean", then there's nothing more to say in this review.Harriett was an old maid; otherwise, hers was a very ordinary life.
Somehow it has to be told; somehow the world has to know that there are many Harriett Freans out there.In her life story, one thing stands out:  Harriett never wanted to disappoint.
In the end, she was all alone.We have a lot of old maids in our family.
18 APR 2015 - spied on Karen's update and on Bettie's update. Free download at Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/9298

What a sad little book. I could relate to Harriett who often sacrificed what she wanted for what she thought others wanted, and it just resulted in no one actually getting what they wanted. Such a sad existence, and even the most simplest choices turned out to be the wrong ones.The story was written very clearly and simply, with little emotion, yet it was full of feeling and emotion. Definitely a surprising little gem.
I read this novel in one sitting as part of a British literature course I took. I read dozens of books that semester, but this one stuck out and has haunted me ever since. It is, in its own quiet and understated way, one of the most disturbing novels I have ever read. Essentially, the story revolves around the detached illustration of the way well-meaning social rules can create a monster.
You may read online at UPenn
http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/9298
A novel from 1922 that I gulped down in less than a day. The slimness of the volume and the generous margins helped (it's really more of a novella), but the prose was also nicely pellucid and readable. Although the story is sad, and has a very specific point to make about how Harriet's typically stifling (upper middle class) Victorian upbringing shapes her life, the fine spareness of the writing keeps the book from being heavy-handed and kept me turning the pages.
It's hard to 'like' a novel that so ruthlessly and efficiently constructs a woman's cage of self-deprivation and extreme self-effacement to the point of near disappearance. As social critique it is devastating in its effectiveness; as a rainy Saturday afternoon read it was not the best choice. (2.5)
This short novel tells the disturbing tale of a Victorian girl named Harriett Frean and her attempt to live a "morally beautiful" life...
I really enjoyed this book, which covers the entire 70 years of Harriett's life at a fast pace and makes you question Harriett's morally sound (but perhaps emotionally unsound) decisions.
It also questions whether being moral is still "good" if you take too much pride in your morals and enjoy feeling superior because of making the "right" decision - it all comes down to motive in the end.
This short novel concerns the life of Harriet Frean, a woman of the late nineteenth century.
Harriet makes several choices according to the repressive and self sacrificing dictates of her parents' Victorian values.
In Harriet, following that precept through self-sacrifice and repression is not about bringing about the best outcome for others, it is about preserving her own personal moral purity and beauty.This novel also reminded me a lot of Molly Keane's Good Behaviour, which also centered around a self-deluding spinster whose life was narrowed and impoverished by too much dependence on parents and too much devotion to a moribund notion of proper and beautiful behavior.
I’d never heard of this book or its author until I came across a Bookcrossing copy at a café in Boston.
The author was apparently a distinguished British novelist in the period after the First World War and I’m really glad to have discovered this Virago Modern Classic.
When she falls in love with the fiancé of a friend, she insists that he marry her friend and misery results for all.
Even her and her mother’s unwillingness to state their preferences in minor matters results in choices that please neither.
Enjoyable and quick read. I liked Harriet the child more than Harriet the adult, but I wouldn't if that wouldn't be true for the vast majority of human beings if I could know them all in both states. The author does a nice job of showing a person who doesn't even realize how insular and self-centered her viewpoint is until very late (too late) in her life. Somehow the reading of it is not nearly as depressing as the message of it.
How much information, brain development, are we designed to take in? More than is comfortable? A quick and objective read. Social protection, self interest, and the deep insecurity of the middle class, this novel cuts to the heart of the good life.
This is a very sad, empty sort of book of a very sad, empty sort of life.
Harriet wants nothing more than to be like her mother and to act "good" by the standards of her parents.
And then we learn that her mother was just the same way and that her parents weren't all shiny and perfect as Harriet idolized them to be.
Characters come without introduction and then slip away again.
If you are looking for character development, there is none.
Harriet floats through life and not much changes except her age.
A beautiful compilation that portrays life of a woman who is taught to sacrifice since her childhood but still unable to comprehend whether her sacrifices made her life complacent or miserable... Is it good to think just about yourself at times in life...
Sinclair was a suffragist and Harriet Frean is the opposite, a woman who is raised to be "nothing but beautifully behaved." Harriet never tries to be anything but beautifully behaved and chugs along dutifully and self-sacrificingly until, at the end of her life, she's gained an inkling that maybe her parents didn't want her to be beautifully behaved so that they could admire her across the breakfast table when she was forty.
She does fall in love with her best friend's fiancee, but nobly refuses him as an act of self-abnegation, which makes all three of them utterly miserable for decades, but when her niece says, "Would you do it again?" Harriet insists she would.
That said, I have to give it high marks as it is well written and I can understand why it is a true classic.Harriett, having grown up and conditioned to a particular culture and way of thinking, believes that acting "beautifully" is the right and only way of living.
She shows less self-interest, except that her M.O. is to "act beautifully".
Her actions destroy the lives of herself, her best friend, and the man she loves.
My problem with this is that such a thing is foolish and dramatic for no reason.
Absolutely foolish.
The story covers Harriett's entire unsignificant life and teaches the reader to never be too dependent upon their parents, or to sacrifice other things for the sake of selfish gratification that you did the 'right' thing.
The book was interesting because it gives an insight into the lives of Victorian women, who 'belonged' to their parents and then a husband (or if they were not married, as in Harriett's case, become a lonely and bitter spinster).
However, the book is also a more modernistic piece in that Harriett almost becomes insane due to the path her life takes (a mundane one) and questions her belief in very outdated Victorian values such as the family and 'beautiful behaviour'.
