https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16132796-the-use-of-knowledge-in-society
Summary: "Each individual only knows a small fraction of what is known collectively – and that as a result, decisions are best made by those with local knowledge rather than by a central authority"
Not as good an indictment of socialism as Economic Calculation in the Socialist Commonwealth, but still a valuable read. Hayek describes the knowledge-deficit of actors in a socialist economy quite well, and also offers valuable thoughts on the nature of the market. The market, he says, is spontaneous, decentralized, and it works for precisely these reasons. While I have moved on from some of Hayeks theories (I share Hoppes judgement that the knowledge-argument proves too much, at least when it's applied too strictly), I cannot say that this essay didn't have a positive effect on my understanding of economics.
after he had stumbled upon it without understanding it.
Through it not only a division of labor but also a coördinated utilization of resources based on an equally divided knowledge has become possible.
The people who like to deride any suggestion that this may be so usually distort the argument by insinuating that it asserts that by some miracle just that sort of system has spontaneously grown up which is best suited to modern civilization.
It is the other way round: man has been able to develop that division of labor on which our civilization is based because he happened to stumble upon a method which made it possible."
No one knows everything, this begs the question: WHO then gets to organize our complex social systems, specifically our economic system? A brief explanation on individual actions, unknowingly shared knowledge, prices and economy.The whole world is connected and society can advance because of every single decision we make through our complete understanding of the world as a group - selfish individuals looking out for themselves.Awesome!
Only when those decisions are made at the edge, by single individuals we have the optimal delivery of value.
Quotes: -The peculiar character of the problem of a rational economic order is determined precisely by the fact that the knowledge of the circumstances of which we must make use never exists in concentrated or integrated form but solely as the dispersed bits of incomplete and frequently contradictory knowledge which all the separate individuals possess.-This is not a dispute about whether planning is to be done or not.
- لا يمكن ﻷحد أن يملك معرفة شاملة لﻷشياء، لذلك السلطة المركزية ستفشل في توجيه السوق بسبب جهلها وإغفا
I felt useless when I read this. Besides that, it was well-written and summed up perfectly.
By far the simple yet powerful indictment of the stupidity of centralized economic planning or in other words the foolishness of Socialist Economic theory."
Read on-line for free:https://fee.org/articles/the-use-of-k...
In the essay, Hayek argues that the knowledge in society that is relevant for economic decision making is diffuse, and in particular the knowledge of "time and place" and other local information is impossible to centralize (and this local information of time/place/etc is no less vital than other more scientific knowledge).
But when Hayek wrote this essay in 1945 the prevailing attitude was that central planners could run an economy and run it better and more efficiently than if the economy was left on its own.
And many of those central planners thought they could and should plan the economy in times of peace as well or else there's be another Depression.
More of a pamphlet really, as it turns out. I haven't read The Road to Serfdom, but this was recommended to me as an encapsulation of his ideas and it certainly seems to sum them up nicely. Hayek's work underpins a lot of libertarian political thought on both sides of the atlantic, with Ayn Rand doing the same job for the knuckle-dragging supporters of the same ideas in the tea-party movement in the US.
An important essay, in which Hayek argues that a decentralized market economy is superior to a centrally planned economy because of its better capacity in using knowledge (especially tacit knowledge - the type of individual knowledge that can't be communicated) and in efficiently adapting to continuous change in detailed circumstances (because the ones directly exposed to them will be the ones to adapt).
Genius
One of these rare historical texts which each 'scientific expert' should re-read once a year to put his reflections in perspective.
Very interesting and a quick read.
Very compact, not a light read, fairly pertinent and engaging
