https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10370459-rau
Excellent book literally taking you to the Bajirao era.
It is really an amazing book which explores the historical love story of Bajirao Peshwa and Mastani.
Book reveals a lot more details other than just the love-story; history is accurately portrayed to a great extent with humane characters with all their vices and virtues.The Peshwa defies his orthodox Brahmin heritage, declaring his love openly for the half-Muslim dancer, in the face of fierce opposition.
This book is more than just a love story, it also how Bajirao become Peshwa and win those battles.
[This is based on real people and real events in history of course but it is a dramatized/ imagined retelling and hence I am tagging it as fiction.] I knew precious little about the main character of this book, Bajirao Peshawe, who was the prime minister of the Maratha empire in the 17th century.
It is complicated by the fact that Bajirao was a high-ranking officer, and his paramour, Mastani, an ordinary courtesan/ artist.
Small, because the book tells us that it was not uncommon for princes and officers to have multiple love interests at the time.
He is known to be very romantic and one who does not hesitate to take action when it comes in his mind.When he sees Mastani for the first time, her beauty and delicacy takes him off his foot and slowly and unknowingly he falls in love with Mastani...
They break the boundary between religion and status and found a love which makes all the kingdom shake with protests.A tale of love so strong which can never be forgotten and will always remain immortal in the minds of all INDIAN...
a tale which point out that there should be no barrier between religion or cast, that love sees none of this at all.
With NS Inamdar’s Rau: The Great Love Story of Bajirao Mastani (translated from Marathi by Vikrant Pande), by the midway mark, I was thinking: This is just about okay.
Because this novel, based on the life of the early 18th century Maratha warrior/Prime Minister, Bajirao Peshwa, and his love for the Muslim dancing girl Mastani, wasn’t really being utterly engrossing.
Then, in the last forty of fifty pages, the book began to fall into place, and ended in a poignant and memorable way.
But, as I said, the end is a memorable one, and that is why the three stars.
The King who looks after the entire kingdom, wins so many wars for the betterment of the Maratha empire was being thrown away by his own people including his Mother and wife because he fell in love with a non brahmin, moreover a non hindu lady who was just a dancer.The book tells us how Bajirao Peshwa, the person who shock the Delhi sultanate, the perosn who never saw defeat in war, was captured by the beauty of this Lady called Mastani and he lost to his family people and his subordinates.
Bollywood has dramatized things (as Bollywood is wont to do) that the story read like a completely different, yet equally impactful, tale.
Rau follows Bajirau, a Maratha Peshwa (prime minister), and Masthani, his mistress as they meet, fall in love and lose touch with reality.
The side of Rau and Masthani where they believe they will die without each other and the other side, the side of the citizens where they believe their prime minister has gone mad enough to ignore his duties and focus only on alcohol and his mistress.
I’d recommend reading this after watching the film because in comparison the film seems like fluff.
the book didn't tell anything about childhood of Bajirao Peshwa.
Books focus is only on love between Bajirao and Mastani.
After reading this book one can only understood that , at the time of Bajirao Peshwa, MARATHA EMPIRE was at its heighest point.
However the book completely fails to describe the complete life of Bajirao Peshwa.
Hence one who already know little-bit about Bajirao Peshwa, will definitely be disappointed after reading this book.
The most Disgusting thing about this book is that, the book didn,t tell anything about Mastani after the death of Bajirao Peshwa.
Hence we didn't get the information about Mastani life-end.
sadashiv patili am happy bcase very interesting chemistry betwen bajirao n mastani in this marathi novel painted by inamdar.raje shivaji n sambhaji after were no any wish person survive to marathi rayat.but bajirao ran in those battle n support them.once time cruel delhi was using notoriouse works with our citizens.bt bajirao was cuted his nose aheade of her.bt there did'nt do any action against marathas."concept of beautifull in mastani nin bravery without bajiraonothing good like.jai hind
This book is undoubtedly one of the best book I have ever read. But like every book this book too have a flaw. The only flaw. And that is, it ends. This book is so amazing that you wish it to never end. Absolutely loved it.
I had read Swami previously. but Rau was a different experience. the minute details of all the feelings of each and every character was very precisely drafted that you are unable to close the book till the end...
Loved it, nicely written.
STORY OF BAJIRAO MASTANIAUTHOR: N.S. INAMDARGENRE: HISTORICAL/ROMANCESTARS: ***'My eyes, they rain all the time                                                                                                                       My eyes, they rain all the time                                                                                                                              Till I see him in mine'This story is about the fearless Maratha Peshwa Shrimant Bajirao also known as Rau. This book depicts his life and his love for the half-muslim dancer Mastani.
But on the other hand Rau was arrogant, he was not to be convinced to any conclusion for leaving Mastani even when requested by his own brother Appa.I truly believe that Rau was a man of strong will and great personality.He was so high with his own pride that he considered his word to be the last.
Thank you Pan Macmillan India for sending me a copy of this book for review :) N.S Inamdar’s Rau wonderfully captures the life and times of the great Peshwa Bajirao.
As Bajirao finds himself falling in love with Mastani, he is forced to face a society that is highly intolerant of intercaste relationships.
What is more, his loved ones too refuse to accept Mastani, thereby isolating Bajirao in his struggle.
I thoroughly enjoyed reading it and would definitely recommend it to all who love historical accounts or simply want to glean more about Peshwa Bajirao and the Maratha Empire.
The Book as the title suggest is the eternal love story of one of the greatest Maratha Warrior, Shrimant Bajirao Peshwa and Mastani.
The Book Throws light on some of the greatest battles fought by Maratha Empire under Peshwa Bajirao.
Peshwa Bajirao was a fearless leader and the one who loved his empire, who lead the empire to victories in numerous battles (41 to be more precise).
The book progress and one gets to know how Bajirao fell in love with Mastani, a mere singer and dancer.
But one gets to know the bond they share and Mastani was more than just a Mistress to Bajirao.
The best book on Peshwai.. With details and emotions..
The most important campaign of the book is devoted to Peshwa’s march towards Delhi to confront Mughals to fulfill the promise once made by Chatrapati.This book brings out the other side of the Peshwa who dares to challenge the tradition and brings Mastani as her second wife to his haveli, the Powerful house of the Maratha empire.
When the mere name of Peshwa could give sleepless nights for enemies but his love towards Mastani provoked the ire of entire family.
Coming to the film made by Bansali, Bajirau Mastani,Kashibai and Mastani never met each other and forget about dancing.
This book is a well woven story about Bajiraoa and Mastani and everyone else related to them.
The movie might be based on this book, but their are a lot of differences between them.
This is the translated version of the original Marathi book by the same author.
Whatever may the case be, this is definitely a book everyone will enjoy.
It is a beautiful story and the description of the characters and the on goings is stunning.
I recommend it to all, those who have seen the movie or not, it does not matter.
This is a book you must read.
"It rains all the while through my eyesMy eyes, they rain all the time...My eyes, they rain all the time...Till I see him in mine."
the first historic novel i read.the book was there in house since my childhood. And hence my favourite.
wanted to read it...since long time
Excellent book literally taking you to the Bajirao era. The depiction of history is emaculate.Liked this book and have developed great respect for Bajirao peshwa sharing same city is a pride
It is really an amazing books which explores the historical love story of Baajirao Peshawa and Mastani.
Nice Web Site For Marathi Readers
toooo good
An Epic story. Nice to read.
excellent...liked...
Firstly, At-least the movie had the courtesy to write a disclaimer saying that they have dramatized the actual historical events.
This book skipped that part also.
Since It says that this was the book that inspired the movie, I do not buy it.
This is a ridiculous book which has dissected history completely.
The most amazing characters of the story, Radha, Kashi and Mastani are just crying.
All through out the book.
Mastani, was a warrior princess and all through out the book, shes been made into a glorified harlot.
Do NOT read this book if you like history.
I have to say here, that the movie was much better.
But well, to be very honest, the book is fairly translated and it's marvelous how poetry has been sewed into the story.
But, there are TOO MANY UNNECESSARY SCENES!
And too long.
And too long.
And too long.
It does take you to that Maratha era, but yet, fails to deliver what it aims at.
I loved all the characters except Rau and Mastani.
Mastani has been very poorly developed in the book and the only savior is Kashibai, whom from the start to the end, I adored
Beautiful book
I like this book very much. I recommend to my friend
