https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101869.The_Atrocity_Archives
so there's all sorts of nerds in the world, right?
being quite familiar with those sorts of looks, I quickly apologized about going off into nerd-land so I could avoid an onslaught of mockery.
I love science fiction, but I love it for its take on social and societal issues and I love it when it is all about the opera in space opera, rather than explaining in precise detail what "space" is.so The Atrocity Archives is definitely for nerds, but not this kind of nerd, not me, no way.
ugh, I hate when I skim through a book because that's like forcing myself to read.
I'm sure it's perfect for the right kind of nerd.
Thus my second problem with the book: there’s a whole lot of computer jargon that isn’t explained well, and moreover, isn’t actually necessary except as a device to prove how smart Bob/Stross is (for instance, the NP/P and Dho-Nha are terms which are not used outside of that paragraph).
To make it worse, I couldn’t tell if Stross was being factual (I’m aware of Alan Turing and computers in general) and where the funky was stepping in (as opposed to the InCryptid series with its faux-bio-ecological descriptions)So I skipped them.
Howard (too much of a coincidence that his hero is named Bob Howard) Stross describes an urban fantasy world building where “The Laundry” is an ultra-secret British agency that deals with the paranormal and occult, kind of a British Men in Black.Stross’ science and mathematics appear to be solid and he artfully mixes in concepts of extra-dimensional wizardry with physical science and technology.
Howard, a non-Company man amidst an overly rigid bureaucratic system (kind of a running joke throughout the narrative) gets involved with a supernatural plot involving dimensionally trapped Nazis.Inventive and often funny, Stross has a great idea and, though his delivery is sometimes stilted and overly complicated, he has crafted an entertaining concept.
Unfortunately from the three books I have read so far there is something about his fiction writing style that does not appeal to me.
The edition of the book that I read contain two distinct stories the original short novel "The Atrocity Archives" and the novella "The Concrete Jungle", the later is more entertaining and tightly written than the former.
Although the book is a mashup of several genres it reads more like sci-fi than anything else, all the supernatural elements have a scientific or pseudo-scientific basis.
Update 1/17/18This is the third read and since I keep getting more excited every time I read it, I'm breaking down and just plopping a big extra star on for sheer enjoyment.I've decided this book is not only Spy Fiction with a Cthulhu twist with lots of super geeky math moments, but it's also Physics Porn.
I've decided that I am exactly the right audience for this book.
The first time I read it, I didn't realize these novels were all based individually on the style of different spy fiction authors, which will end soon and be based solely upon Charles Stross's style.
Charles Stross's The Atrocity Archives (The Laundry #1) was a fun read (the scattered Cthulhu references added to the entertainment). I liked the humor inherent in a bureaucracy battling demons and forestalling the coming apocalypse (while making sure timesheets are filled out properly). It felt a little less light-hearted when Nazis and the occult were woven into the plot. Even if this strengthened the plot, I enjoyed it a little less because what I like about The Atrocity Archives wasn't tied to the plot. 3.5 stars.
Charles Stross has accomplished just such a feat with The Atrocity Archives, a bewildering, fascinating, and very funny look inside the bureaucratic world of top-secret British occult espionage.If I had to capture the tone of the Atrocity Archives in one sentence, I'd describe it as three parts Men In Black, two parts The Office, and two parts of the "Lovecraft Mythos." The stories (as the book is actually comprised of two separate narratives) center on The Laundry, the ultra-secret branch of Her Majesty's Government responsible for keeping the Things Beyond Our Reality from invading and destroying the world.
Dudes, I finally did it! I finally read a Charles Stross novel that didn't leave me feeling vaguely disappointed that I didn't enjoy it more! Apparently this is the series for me, of his work. So far. Note: The rest of this review has been withdrawn due to the changes in Goodreads policy and enforcement. You can read why I came to this decision here.In the meantime, you can read the entire review at Smorgasbook
This was fun!The Atrocity Archives is the first in Charles Stross' The Laundry Files books.
And Laundry is the name of a super top secret organization in Her Majesty's government charged with stopping stupid people from accidentally inviting god-like creatures into our realm and thus destroying Earth.The first thing I noticed about this book was the author's style.
The MC is a guy working for "IT" in Laundry but, naturally, that doesn't mean the usual computing stuff.
You know how you always knew maths class was secretly evil? You were right. And now Bob has to fight that evil. If only Beatrice from HR would let him get on with and stop hassling him for his expense reports. A thoroughly enjoyable book. It's the dynamic duo of snarky IT geek humour and an old-fashioned British spy thriller facing off against unspeakable Lovecraftian horrors. And paperwork.
He ladels on the humour in a completely deadpan manner that fellow Brit Ben Aaronovitch could only dream of doing in his similar sounding series, and his world building is done so well that you hardly notice it happening yet by the end of the novel you are ready for more from The Laundry.Structure wise, this book contains two stories, one slightly longer than the other, and this only serves to enhance the similarity to The Night Watch which also came a few years before this was published.I can pick no faults other than the first story was a little short and the second story not necessary.
4.0 to 4.5 stars. Incredible concept realized by an outstanding author. Combine James Bond, H.P. Lovecraft, the X-files and science fiction and you get the Atrocity Archives, the first book of the Laundry series. The Laundry is an ultra top secret British agency in an alternate version or our modern world that battles supernatural forces right out of the Cthulhu mythos. Yes, it is as good as it sounds. RECOMMENDED!!!!
The story follows computer scientist Bob Howard into a job he has fallen into, in a top-secret British intelligence service.
He has learned how to conjure spirits from another universe, using scientific/magical techniques that are kept top secret.The plot is amazingly silly, yet there are some truly hilarious scenes scattered throughout the story.
Bob continually gets into trouble with the bureaucratic bean-counters in his intelligence agency, for ridiculously absurd reasons.
He has a wonderful way with words, especially mixing up highly technical science and engineering concepts with magical themes.
While I didn't care much for the story itself--it is just too absurd--the writing style is so invigorating and remarkable.
Aquí conocemos a Bob, un geek de la informática que trabaja como funcionario en la Lavandería arreglando todos los problemas informáticos de la misma, hasta que pasa a ser un agente activo de campo.
Como todo funcionario que se precie, la agencia imaginada por Stross está plagada más de burocracia y papeleo que de otra cosa.
Pero le tenemos que sumar criaturas lovecraftianos o leyendas griegas, un nivel de matemáticas (o magia como se llama aquí) bastante más alto, y una cantidad de burocracia insufrible.
3.5*After years of being aware of Stross’s Laundry Files books, I finally dived in :0)This first instalment introduces Bob Howard, a hacker turned agent for a secret British government agency dealing with all the weird and wonderful things that go bump in the night.
Don’t think James Bond but rather an ‘IT guy’ working for Men in Black / X Files but with a lot more geekery, maths, and mind-numbing bureaucracy, in triplicates, where computers can summon Lovecraftian demons!
There is a lot of stumbling around, tons of computer jokes, plenty of paperwork and red tape, but also courage and determination.
Yep, I’ve been entertained enough to want to carry on :0)
The ONLY thing keeping me going back is the fact I agreed to buddy read this with a friend - and in the same time I got over 1/3 of the way, she couldn't manage past the first chapter.DNF at 39%.Full Review:I have come to fully accept that there will be books that other people ADORE that I just won't like.
(Also, I'm mechanical, not computer or software, so I couldn't follow ANY of the computer jargon.) I know if you've read some reviews, that may come as an astonishment because there have been books where my brain could NOT turn off, and I picked out all the problems and questions I had.
3.5The Atrocity Archives consists of two stories connected only by the main character Bob Howard and his weird job. It is more of an introduction to this series than anything else.And I liked it. I admit that the mathematical-engineering-scientific stuff mostly went right over my head, but the way Lovecraftian themes are used is enough for me to continue the series.
4,5Divertidísima y excelente novela de ¿ciencia ficción?, ¿terror?, ¿fantasía? Qué más da. De lo más destacado de este año. Con muchas ganas del segundo.Edición y traducción 10/10. Worth it total.En breve reseña profundizando en el blog.
RTC


I enjoyed Stross's sharp skewering of government work (and yeah, I can totally believe that even a super-secret super-elite agency that literally saves the world on a routine basis still would not be exempted from bureaucratic and regulatory idiocy), but Bob himself was the sort of gormless Everyman character so popular in British urban fantasy (think Neil Gaiman) and on TV, who manages to execute very clever tricks to save the day and somehow manages to wind up with girls several orders of magnitude out of his league, and seems to be a wish fulfillment character for his nerd audience.Fun, light, somewhat clever, would read more Laundry novels, but it's the kind of clever that can get old quickly if the author gives in to the tendency to let cleverness substitute for plotting and character development.
on to book 2!
Mo doesn't know that her research is wanted by the bad guys, and her being in the wrong place at the wrong time doesn't help.Suffice it to say that after a thwarted kidnapping and an unpleasant encounter with a reptilian creature that invades her apartment, Mo ends up being sucked through an interdimensional gate to very cold planet in an alternate universe and it's up to Bob and his team mates to get her home safely (and possibly save London too).
*This is an audio Ebook by the way.
It's what I had access to through the library, but then I like audio books as well as text, at least for some fiction.*I'd never heard of these...
When someone accidentally stumbles on some of these "discoveries" red lights (figuratively speaking of course) go off at the "Laundry" and the person is "swept up".
again...or you go to work for the Laundry.
By the way...this is very close to a 5...I just can't quite rate it up there with some of the top rated books.
Lovecraft's stories of strange angles and alterations to physics and a notion that occultism and conventional science are one and the same, separated by an ocean of knowledge beyond human scope.
Stross ran with that, applying advanced mathematics and theoretical physics over the genre of weird cosmic horror.
And, frankly, the pinpoint detailing of how, what, and why gave me willies far more effectively than Lovecraft's empurpled "oh the indescribable mind-blasting horror" ever did.Bob Howard's modern tendency toward ironic detachment and snark seems a strange pairing with the material--Lovecraft's narrators were so damn earnest--but I came to see it as a sort of Dilbertian defense mechanism.
Having fallen in love with Fenris’ voice in Dragon Age II, I decided that The Atrocity Archives, read by Gideon Emery, was a necessary listen from Audible.
Emery did an excellent job of making sure Bob’s attitude didn’t go over the edge and into the realm of unlikable characters and I loved the way Stross seamlessly worked in the occult aspects, solidly grounding them in reality through science and technology.
At this point, explanations start to take over the story as Stross works in all sorts of details about Hitler’s obsession with the occult.
Which is unfortunately how Stross has made me feel before.I don't think I'll be reading any more of this series, though I quest on in my attempt to find a Stross book I genuinely enjoy.
It seems like he has cool ideas, and it's not like it's his writing style that throws me off -- I just don't feel like enough of a nerd!
http://bookslifewine.com/r-the-atroci...
What I've been telling people thus far is to imagine Sheldon from The Big Bang Theory, take away his tendency to be completely insulting, turn him into a hacker and then force him to become the sci-fi version of a secret spy.I can't quite say I enjoyed my read of The Atrocity Archive.
It was...often bogged down by what I've been calling "techno-babble." Stross clearly wrote The Atrocity Archive for people who are very knowledgeable in the practical application of advanced technology/mathematics.
Either or.Read the rest here: http://bookslifewine.com/r-the-atroci...
Ha sido mi primera toma de contacto con el autor y me ha parecido espectacular. Divertida, llena de ideas que mezclan Ciencia Ficción y Fantasía y te obligan a torcer el gesto asombrado varias veces.Los personajes, a la altura del resto de la novela, sobre todo el protagonista. He empatizado con él desde el principio. Tal vez mi trabajo no sea tan distinto del suyo...Muy interesante el epílogo, te da un punto de vista diferente.La novela corta es muy buena, pero "El archivo de atrocidades", me ha parecido insuperable. 5/5 clarísimo. Vaya manera de arrancar una editorial.
