https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149197.The_Science_of_Mind
On our journey here, we all want to better ourselves, whether we admit it or not You do not have to be poor, or miserable, or lonely.
Choose what you want.
Know that it is coming.
Live expecting good to come.
Stop!
If you are living a life that is sad and just getting bye, you must stop here and now and begin to think of only what you desire.
It's working for me.
At mid 50's, I now own my own home with 5 bedrooms in a beautiful part of my state.
I do not work outside my home.
I've read this book every year since 1981 ... everytime I find something new!Powerful Stuff!
Most modern Christian thought puts God outside of the universe (an atemporal, transcendental being of some kind), and makes Man (all people, but I'll use "Man" because that's the way they talked in 1926) completely separate from his creator.The One is infinite and everything that exists is made of this mind substance and is just a rearrangement of this substance according to Holmes.
Holmes, no longer makes Man an infinite distance from God and our Gratitude can be actualized (under traditional Christianity we can never pay God back fully for the Cross and can only try to be perfect in this life time, but Holmes allows us to be perfect).
The book started off well enough, taking me on a journey through Christian beliefs in the spirit, soul, and body as they are related to the Holy Trinity (Father, Holy spirit, Son).
For these great concepts, I'd give the book 5 stars.
The reason it earns two stars is because of the constant repetition of the same thing and the pointless religious babble.
Babble might be a harsh word but it does it justice when the other repeatedly says things like "God is all and all is God".
This book to me was and still is a guide that is helping me in my life.
When I got hold of this book, I was going through a tough time in my life trying to find happiness with myself while at the same time trying to to prove myself to those i loved most.
This book taught me how to deal with the most difficult situation with Spiritual help.
One cannot read this book if you do not believe in God or are not Spiritual in any kind of way.
I consider myself lucky to have a copy of this book.
Inasmuch as many of the the author's examples contradict his own teachings, the book still deserves 5 stars for its general overall excellence.
The Science of Mind is a book that anybody who is serious about understanding universal/quantum concepts should absolutely read, and study, time and again, because it talks about the many aspects of science/religion/spirituality which are left out of most books published today, and in recent times, about these concepts.
It goes well beyond the ideal of mere wealth attainment, generously spilling over into concepts such as God and divine purpose.
powerful stuff.... whether you believe in 'god' or not, this stuff is good and it works if you allow yourself to try the principles expounded upon and then just observe what occurs... That is the whole truth of the matter.... no matter what anyone might call it... religion, god, whatever, with a Positive Mental Attitude and Focus we can each change our lives. Period.
Great book.. wisdom of ages.
I've read a number of real mind science books in the last couple of years and this this is a simply a largely Christian religious text with a few scientific mentions in it.
There is a bit of pseudoscience, but Holmes clearly doesn't think so.It's unfair to ding Holmes for a 1920s perspective, and it's unfair to pick on the non-science as this is clearly religious.
His examples of something as simple as inductive and deductive reasoning are wrong, but sound convincing.
Non sequitur.Psycho-analysis is a system of analyzing the soul, or the subjective mentality.
Because psycho-analysis is an absolute science.
I subscribe to "Science of Mind" magazine and really like the philosophy of the reilgion founded by Ernest Holmes. However, I could not finish his classic book. His use of Spirit, Soul, Subconscious, Conscious, Mind, etc. only boggled my mind. So, I gave up on reading it. Will have to content myself with articles of his that appear in the magazine and clearer interpretations of others as to his beliefs.
At times sophomoric, at others deeply profound Holmes is here giving the total visionary outline of the religion or spiritual discipline he created. It does not have to be read in order and in fact likely shouldn't, instead perused as a spiritual guide to further understanding the principles of Religious Science. Contemplation is key here as is an appreciation for how standard religious words are used differently. Once clear a whole new world opens up.
Amazing book!!! I recommend to anyone who is a seeker of the meaning of life. The first lesson is a bit confusing but don't quit!! The further along you get it all starts to come together! Truly a life changing book!
Just loaded with thoughts and realities for understanding how we function as thinking human beings. I have had a copy of this book for many, many years.
Life changing
Must read
I found this to be the most clear and reasoned presentation of the basic New Thought world-view I have yet read.
This work is a good "owner's manual" to this "spiritual being having a material experience" world we live in.
There are a few Biblical references, although, as with most New Thought works, they are interpreted metaphorically: as teaching tales someone spiritually wise might tell for what they show about the personal spiritual journey.
In this view, the "Christ" is within each of us, and the person the Gospels was written about was just really good at allowing that inner light to express in his life.
Ernest Holmes’ “New Thought” metaphysics is a synthesis from many great and varied sources.
He was influenced mostly by Ralph Waldo Emerson, Thomas Troward, Phineas Quimby, Mary Baker Eddy and the Bible.
The book’s density, as in - a lot packed into every sentence and paragraph, made it slow going for me.
But ultimately worthwhile in gaining insight into his thesis of the One Mind of which we are all a part; we are all the stuff of God – Godstuff – making the world with our thoughts - something that quantum physics appears to bear out years after this book was published.
I loved this book. It's easy to read, inspiring, and spiritually confirming. I found an old version at a thrift store at a very lonely time in my life, when I first moved to CA and missed family and friends. Another one of those creative visualization / law of attraction books.
What can you say about the book that explains... pretty much everything. This is the instruction manual for life.
Best book EVER!!
Excellent to read, as long as you pay attention and don't read it when tired. Unless you can follow a hardcore steady train of thought for long periods of time when sleepy.
the bible for anyone wishing to start a cult.
Awakening!
It is mental awareness".This particular book is only 119 pages but should not be read like a novel.We all have personal and immediate access to the laws of nature, it all boils down to believing, thinking and doing.We must come back to our spiritual center or we will always be seeking external aid.
Everything we will ever need is right here inside of us, and for some ,this power we have may be mind boggling but once we are aware and believe this simple truth we can start the healing process.
Interesting to see how thirty years of experience living a spiritually based life takes what was once heady and turn it into simple.I got this book to help a friend who is studying to become a Science of Mind reverend.
Because Ernest Holmes was an intellectual, his approach to spirituality is very left brain oriented.
My friend is more of an intuitive and that's why she was having such trouble understanding what he was trying to say.Since she'd read my book, "How to Make the Most of Your Earth Experience: 14 Principles of Unconditional Love" (for sending your Inner Critic on permanent vacation) and found it mega-easy to understand, I was able to translate Ernest Holmes' words into ones she could intuit easily.My recommendation?
It was during the darkest period of my life that I took nearly all of the money I had to my name and bought The Science of Mind.Within 8 weeks of reading (and highlighting) this profound book from cover to cover my entire life did a complete turnaround.What Ernest Holmes drilled into my mind was EXACTLY how the laws of this universe work with respect to manifestation.
The universe is completely neutral!
I feel such deep gratitude for Ernest Holmes for writing this book because of the immeasurable difference it has made in my life.

This book was a fascinating read.
It is a quintessential text of New Thought, a spiritual movement originating in the late 1800's.
I was raised in the Word of Faith movement, a form of Pentecostal Christianity that also emphasizes the power of the mind.
In fact, Word of Faith believers practice a form of prayer very similar to what are called affirmations today.
It was interesting reading this book, and seeing the same Bible verses used in Science of Mind as when I was growing up.
Overall, I thought it was a great book for anyone interested in New Thought.
I am loving the new thought concepts. May take a while to put into practice. I believe this is a good intermediary understanding before the concepts of Non-duality. It has a lot of the traditional concepts of Christianity but any religion can work these concepts. It does exclude from the Christian tradition concepts based in fear and operations of the devil. Main theme is that the process of God is always working for good. The science is about aligning ones mind with this process. This is new thought and not Christian Science.
Considering when it was written I think the book is way ahead of its time. He losses his way and gets quite hung up on affirmations near the end but the essence of what he is pointing to is true. I had to ignore the emphasis on ‘God’ and replace the word with energy. I had powerful insights about the nature of the human experience and so the read was worth it for that. In my opinion no need to ‘study’ this book. Rather read and see what you hear for yourself. Ignore the rest.
