https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28389305-the-other-einstein
The claims are considered unsubstantiated by accounts, but the premise of this story is that it is true, making Albert Einstein a less than appealing person, actually pretty cold and calculating.
Answering through fiction the seemingly unanswerable questions in Mileva's life - exploring the 'what ifs' - is what makes writing The Other Einstein so interesting to me ." Also, it is not substantiated that the child died but may have been given up for adoption.
I mostly read fiction and have no problems accepting stories as they are presented but when doubts are expressed in the author's note about the validity of the premise , I had a hard time with it.
I really wanted to like this book.Perhaps it is just me, but I think I hold writers of historical fiction to a different standard than other fiction writers.
A much more interesting book would have been to follow the true story of Mileva's life -- a brilliant scientist in her own right (the only female studying at the Zurich Polytechnic at the time Einstein was getting his degree) who had to give up her scientific ambitions when she became a mother.
Far too much time was spent on Albert & Mileva's courtship, before getting to any interest or tension in the book.
The book was well written and I did like Mitza, and I know we've all had the representation talk before but really it is cool knowing about women scientists and especially one with a disability.
Maybe if we saw more of Mitza sitting around thinking about physics theoretically I would've bought the idea that she came up with it and Einstein stole the idea or I guess took credit or whatever but nah it didn't work for me the way it was done in the book I don't buy it.
It is here that she met a young student in her class named Albert Einstein.
Albert takes an interest in her, and a romantic relationship evolves between them.
This book details how their relationship changes over timeWritten in the voice of Mileva, this historical novel is about the difficulties she encountered while married to Einstein.
What starts as a young exciting relationship turns into an abusive neglectful one.
The book delves into how Mileva eventually felt she was living in Einstein’s shadow.
It has been speculated that she contributed to the theory of relativity but her named was omitted by Einstein.
(Word of the day challenge: check!)I would have hanged myself if I continued reading.
On fleek with the grammar today, baby!We've been watching the series, Genius, about Einstein and I know that they tried to be as historically accurate as possible when making it.
What I have learned is that he wasn't some lovable nutty professor who was a genius, like we all thought.
He was a bad husband, selfish man, horrible father, and philandering jerk who also was a genius.
So, I guess that reading this book was probably a bad idea to begin with.
I thought it was meant to be about a brilliant scientific mind who was lost in her husband’s shadow, and yet I got the sense that the author didn’t have the confidence to actually write about science.
Not only did this make the book feel a bit flimsy, but I also think it denigrated Maric.
The author’s unwillingness or inability to delve into the science Maric (supposedly) worked on actually detracts from the image of her as a brilliant scientist.Finally, I think the author got a bit drunk on artistic license.
This explores not only scientific and marital conflict, but the trials of being a ground-breaking and intelligent women living in a conservative and bourgeois time-period.This novel used Mileva as a spokesperson for a generation of budding intellectual women, who are realizing their independence for the first time, and yet are still largely relegated to the home sphere.
On behalf of women everywhere, who have ever received such treatment, this pained me to read about.This not only concerned the re-imagining of the life of this brilliant women, but was a wonderfully evocative and atmospheric account of nineteenth century Europe.
Recommended for those who enjoy learning a great deal during their fiction reading, I can see Benedict has a great handle on the topic and how to present it effectively to readers.Bendict does well to capture the reader’s attention throughout this book, straddling the line between telling a story and recounting the life of a lesser-known historical figure.
While she may have been raised at a time when she was seen as a second-class citizen, she never let her passion die out, no matter who stood in her way, Benedict portrays this effectively throughout the piece, tossing in some interesting hurdles outside her being a woman.
Strains in the relationship appear throughout the latter portion of the book, particularly as Benedict portrays Albert as too focussed on his work.
There are claims that Maric is responsible for some of Einstein's work.
I think the first 9000 times this was mentioned was sufficient for me to understand that she had a limp that she blamed everything in her life on.
I had just finished a wonderful book that shook me, moved me and made me think.
It was a historical fiction too but on such a different level that it was like comparing Charles Dickens to a children's book.
There are so many great books and so little time, why would you waste a second on this drivel?
Find this and other reviews at: http://flashlightcommentary.blogspot....I feel like the only reader who wasn’t wholly enthralled by Marie Benedict’s The Other Einstein, but if I’m entirely honest, the novel didn’t draw in me as I’d hoped.
I give Benedict a lot of credit for highlighting a lesser known individual, but the mechanics of the novel weren’t fully developed and the actual conflict came so late in the narrative that I’d all but given up hope of its delivery.The relationship between Albert and Mileva takes center stage in the narrative, but I never felt it a true partnership.
This year The Other Einstein was the book I received and all my coworkers that participated LOVED this book, so we have decided to meet up before the next school year and have a book club meeting just to discuss this book.This book was fantastic!
I highly suggest this book to everyone!!"His first wife, Mileva “Mitza” Marić, was more than the devoted mother of their three children—she was also a brilliant physicist in her own right, and her contributions to the special theory of relativity have been hotly debated for more than a century.
This was an engaging story about Mileva “Mitza” Marić, Albert Einstein’s first wife.
It seems we may never know the truth behind how much of the research was completed by Mileva Marić, but this author took a very interesting view into the marriage and work of the couple.
It was fascinating to be brought into the mind of a brilliant and driven woman living in the late 1800s and early 1900s.It is important to note that this is a work of fiction and Albert Einstein is not presented as a brilliant scientist and loving husband and father.
3.5 Stars.Even before her marriage to Einstein, Mileva Maric was an interesting woman.
Einstein comes across as a bit of an ass from the get go.
Not until after their parenthood and marriage, did the book come alive for me.
At that point, Einstein is more than a bit of an ass, he is a full out jerk.
As others have questioned, I have no idea how much of the premise of this book is true.
Maric is painted as being smarter than Einstein.
Kudos to Benedict for making the scientific ideas easy to understand for us non-geniuses.
This book was offered as an Overdrive special read and I signed up thinking it must be quite good to make the cut.
I knew nothing of the first Mrs. Einstein, and having read this book I dare say I know nothing of her now.
Was Einstein as cold and perverse as some events in this book would make him seem?
He obviously made love to her, but perhaps it was my inability to picture Albert Einstein as a lover that hampered this read early on for me.
AUDIO READ #200 of 2018Dear Albert Einstein,You're a total misogynistic asshole. Unless this author created most of this book, which the author's note at the end of the book makes me wonder. Then my apologies. Regards,Confused historical fiction fan
Up to this point i had read that Einstein was married at one point but never stopped to think about who he was married to during that time.
Nevertheless i felt that the author allowed herself too much of a creative license to basically alter the characters she was written about, Because she portrays Einstein in way that it is a bit damaging to his prestige if indeed this happened, but as the author says herself at the end of the book , it is all mostly made up.
Recommend it if you are in search of light read, just keep in mind that this is a work of fiction.
A very engaging story about Albert Einstein's very smart and much dismissed wife and partner, Mileva Maric. I never heard of her and reading this story brought her to life. My ideas of Albert Einstein have changed as well. It's a read that had me looking on wiki/internet for more info and images. I love when a book causes me to do that.Thanks to the publisher and netgalley for a copy of this book in exchange for an honest review.
In The Other Einstein, Marie Benedict says she "aims to tell the story of a brilliant woman whose light has been lost in Albert's enormous shadow." Mileva Maric (Serbian, 1875-1948) is an extraordinarily talented female student studying physics at Zurich Polytechnic where she meets young Einstein in class.
Her hopes for sharing in his scientific achievements are soon dashed as time and time again, Albert fails to give her credit for her work and ideas in his published papers.
I enjoyed the early parts of the story the best where we see the young Mileva being encouraged by her father to pursue her studies, blazing a path at university where few woman had gone before.
Benedict’s theme was clearly first about Mileva’s disastrous relationship with a powerful man, but no woman with her apparent knowledge of science (a woman who in this novel believed she should be a co-author of Nobel-prize-winning ideas!) would think (or not thnk) about science in the way portrayed here.
I think other readers should be alert to the extensive speculation behind this novel, and understand that there is little if no evidence to support the other side of Albert Einstein as he is portrayed here.
For some reason, there seems to be a number of people who are confused about the very nature of this book; so I thought I should begin by pointing out the obvious… 'The Other Einstein' is a novel, a work of historical fiction.
* Albert Einstein and his first wife, Mileva Maric, met in 1896 while they were both students in the Department of Mathematics and Physics at the Zurich Polytechnic Institute in Switzerland.
* Over the years, Albert Einstein and Mileva Maric became estranged and the couple ultimately divorced in 1919.
This novel was written from the point of view of Mileva Maric.
While her brilliant husband was free to spend his time furthering his career, Mileva was busy as a mother and homemaker.
The book had an excellent portrayal of women in that era, and the problems faced by women who wanted a career in addition to marriage with children.The book is fictional, and the author states in her notes that "the precise nature of Mileva's contribution to the 1905 theories attributed to Albert is unknown..." The story shows Mileva in a very significant role, especially in the creation of the theory of special relativity.
In this fascinating and thoughtful novel, we learn that this is more than possible." - B.A. Shapiro, New York Times best selling author of The Art Forger and The MuralistIn 1896 the gifted Mileva "Mitza" is the only female studying physics at an elite school in Zurich.
I liked Papa, Mama, Mitza's friend Helene, but only liked Albert Einstein at the beginning of this fictional story.
He becomes selfish, devious, unfeeling, uncaring, two-faced, even cruel and horrible.My rating for this book could be higher, but I am troubled by the premise that it is a historical novel about Albert Einstein's first wife.
Unfortunately, Einstein who at the beginning of their relationship treated her as an equal in mind and spirit and wanted a bohemian lifestyle together where they worked on the big physics theories of the times changed when she became pregnant out of wedlock.
This book is a work of fiction but the author did base the ideas and plot of the story from the letters the Einsteins wrote to each other and their friends and colleagues so there is no definitive proof that Mitza did collaborate or actually came up with any of Einstein's theories and deserves credit.
This is a thoughtfully written book about the woman behind the man, Mileva Einstein, Albert Einstein’s first wife.
I had never given thought to Einstein’s wife’s existence so want to thank Marie Benedict for telling Mileva’s fascinating story, even if she does speculate at times.
There is no doubt that Mileva was extraordinary – a woman ahead of her time, a brilliant physicist who made contributions to science.
The couple’s relationship is fascinating and shows a very dark side of Einstein that I was not expecting.
Thanks to Marie Benedict for providing her interesting perspective into the relationship and personalities of Mileva and Albert.
Rating: 3.5* of fiveMy review is live now. #WomensHistoryMonth is the time to remember a deliberately forgotten woman's role in #physics. Mileva Einstein's role in the four papers published in the Miracle Year of 1905 can't be know for certain, no one still alive was in any of those rooms where husband and wife spoke, but letters discovered in the 1980s strongly suggest she was a key player in the thinking Einstein did.Sourcebooks and Marie Benedict get loud kudos for shining more light on her stage.
In The Other Einstein Marie Benedict introduces us to Mileva, a fascinating scientist in her own right and not just a footnote in the famous Albert Einstein's story.
The Other Einstein aims to tell the story of a brilliant woman whose light has been lost in Albert's enormous shadow.- Marie Benedict"This was an enjoyable read with good writing and the focus was mostly on Mileva and her struggles and accomplishments and not on the science itself.
Short Review Summary: I wanted to know more about Mileva and her love of science.
I didn't even know that Albert Einstein had a wife.
I wanted to know who she was as a person and what her contributions (if any) are to science while being swept up in a fictional story.
I couldn't wait to find out more about Mileva and if she contributed anything to the field of science herself or if she assisted Albert Einstein at all.
Also, maybe I just need to see if there's a nonfiction book about Mileva instead.
I received my copy of The Other Einstein by Marie Benedict from Net Galley.
She did the research and came to a conclusion that isn't at all palatable for supporters of Albert Einstein.Benedict's version of Mileva isn't a feminist icon.
Benedict portrays Einstein as having deliberately undermined Mileva.
Now anyone who has read this book can examine what is known about her, and make their own decisions about what they believe concerning the issues that Benedict has raised.For the blog tour version of this review with the tour wide giveaway see http://wwwbookbabe.blogspot.com/2016/...The giveaway only lasts until December 1st.
If his brilliant, genius wife gets a 1/4 of his credit can it really change what one believes is Einstein's genius?Marie Benedict did such a great job giving Mileva Maric a voice and a personality.
Reading this book I don't deny his genius but I believe he was a $h*tt-ee man.
Which makes sense reading more and more about him.Anyway, Benedict did such a great job giving this Serbian physicist a story, not just a long forgotten shadow of a person.
I'm not a feminist but I believe behind every man's genius is a good woman willing to help and be there in spite of everything.
She meets Albert in her physics class, in a school she has had to work very hard to get into, and to stay in.
The only saving grace for Mitza is a friend from her university days, and her children.This is a work of fiction, and even if only some parts of the fiction matched reality, this book made me sad for all the women who've been lost to history because they were seen as little more than helpmeets to their husbands, or because of societal restictions, have had to give up dreams and live smaller, more constricted lives.
