https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/227540.The_Rape_of_Europa
Dear Lynn Nichols,I'm very sorry that I have had to give up on your informative, well-researched, and extensively annotated book.
I'm sure that if I'd finished it, it would have been awesome, so I'm going to go ahead and give it five stars anyway.You see, Netflix has this great new feature where you can download movies and watch them immediately.
I'm going to watch the documentary instead.
Needless to say, this is quite time consuming.You can be assured that if I ever find myself with a lot of time on my hands, I will pick your book up again.With warmest regards,Michelle
Just after finishing this book, I read an amazing collection of poetry called In Praise of the Unfinished: Selected Poems by Julia Hartwig, a previously untranslated Polish poet who also tapped into something deeply emotional that I never really quite came to grips with either (which is why I never reviewed it here on GR).
Lynn Nicholas, who is interviewed extensively on the DVD, wrote this book to document the stunning history around the purchase / acquisition / theft of Europe's treasured works of art during WWII by the Nazis.
You know that they do, but the harrowing stories of rescue of treasures from barns, cow sheds, abandoned railway cars and more, simply emphasizes the hard work carried out by the men who were there.What struck me in reading this book was that none of the Monuments men involved knew that they would be successful.
It seems like a lot of readers found this unattractively dense and fact-packed, but I thoroughly enjoyed it - as much as one can enjoy a book largely about the looting of art treasures from Jews and other war victims. Nicholas meticulously researched her subject for years, combing through institutional archives and privately held papers and interviewing various surviving owners of the looted collections. It's a fascinating story, full of villains and heroes, one that hasn't ended yet; there are still some masterpieces which have never been found.
This one has some interesting choices in structure, and reads a little as if Nicholas were suffering from "I did all this research, so you're going to read about it!" syndrome. But very, very interesting.All about the passions aroused by art in wartime. How to protect? How to find (by thief or otherwise)? To whom to return it?Also I love the factoid learned here that Hitler was reading a biography of Ghengis Khan during the sack of Warsaw.
And the theft of artwork, along with other forms of national treasure, was perfected and institutionalized on the grandest scale by the Nazis.
Here’s the pattern in country after country: Germany invades, the Nazis pick over every public and private art collection they can find, packing off the best to the Reich (first choice goes to Hitler for his Linz museum, second choice to Goering, and so on).
Nearly as frustrating: priceless artwork used as tabletops, left to disintegrate in wet caverns, hacked apart by infantrymen bent on revenge.The recovery effort was considerably more intricate than the thefts, and all of this is covered in rich detail by Nicholas.
i almost forgot that historical non-fiction can be a total tear-jerker.
i got a little misty-eyed here and there when the author accounted for both allied and axis measures to protect art during the cultural holocaust of the 2nd ww.
if you have any interest or inclination toward this subject/era, its a good way to learn more about the 2nd ww esp.
if you prefer an art history/cultural approach to the subject.
this history takes the reader away from the war fronts, instead depicting the secondary battlefield of the arts, which nevertheless played a critical role in the battle strategies of the nazis in their attempt to reform european culture.
A stunning piece of research.
Although it does often read like a laundry list of people, events, and places in art world of war-torn Europe during the late 30’s and 40’s, I will say I was in awe of Nicholas’s research into this often-ignored area of WWII history.
His ability to explain human motivation and exploitation of artistic works of art in extreme minutiae is second to none.
Luckily for us today, just enough people throughout Europe had the prescience to inventory and hide away as much artwork as they could before the coming barbarian hordes of the Third Reich.
Another rating quandary...LH's research is astounding, her attention to detail unparalleled.; unfortunately it made my brain go into overload and I couldn't keep track of everything (anything?). I found the post WW2 debates on what to do with everything most interesting. It is fascinating to think of art still to be found. Bottom line, my rating is more to do with my attention span and less to do with the quality of writing.
Favorite bit, page 194-5: [in Leningrad] "The guardians and their families would live for two long years in the basement below. Despite the cold and the terrible food, being museum people, they soon organized exhibitions from their holdings to maintain morale and to pass the long months of waiting."Excellent history, and the documentary film made from this is So different, people should both read and watch!
Mixed feelings here. It is a topic I love but there is just SO VERY much detail that it is too much to process. Many of the threads and stories are fascinating, but the reader is swamped in detail. An editor, perhaps? It is a common problem amongst academics- I found all this information and, by George, you are going to read it! Whew.
This is a fascinating book about the looting of art in Europe during WWII. I enjoyed reading this book because the subject matter is very interesting. However, it is very dense and filled with hundreds of names, places, dates, and details. If you're interested in art history and conservation, then this book is perfect for you!
Really, really enjoyed this book. I found the chapters on illicit art trading in Holland, art dealing in the Vichy government, and the last three chapters on the resolution of the war and after to be especially engrossing.
Very informative, though it does tend to drag. All in all it's written very well and researched comprehensively; in my opinion this is the definitive work on WWII art plunder. If the topic is of interest to you, you're likely to enjoy reading the book.
Book is interesting, but at times it drags. It is strange how much went into saving art and how little into saving people.
to hunt down with a double barreled book seeker lens
This is a meticulously researched and documented study of the less-than-legal and outright theft of art works by members of the German Third Reich before and during the period its dominance of conquered countries.
This is a dense book that attempts to trace most of the transfers of European art that occured during the period by individuals of the Nazi regime – including Hitler – from 1933 up to 1945.
It was the job of various Allied forces – especially the Monuments Division of the American forces – to find and catalog these collections to catalog and ultimately to restore them to their rightful owners.
For those of you who don't like or understand Art, you may want to read this to learn about the absolute passion it engenders.
I was disgusted by the greed and art-lust of the Nazis and Allies before and during the war.
And then I was stunned by the complications of 'repatriating' the art works.
The greed and art-lust reared it's ugly head in new and profound ways.As to the book itself, it was very dense.
Well written, but dense.
If you do, I also recommend Monument MenThe Monuments Men: Allied Heroes, Nazi Thieves, and the Greatest Treasure Hunt in History 
The latter portion of the history discusses the roles of the Monument Men, detailing their efforts to battle not only the efforts of those attempting to destroy cultural works, but also the disregard the US Army exhibited towards the efforts of the Monuments Men to save those cultural works.
The book can be dense and overwhelming at times in regard to the artists and works of art discussed, if (like me) you do not have a background in art history.
The current movie concerning the Monuments Men only touches on a small portion of the history covered by this book.
Only later did the fact that the ceremonial hammer broke in his hands assume significance."The Rape of Europa is a culmination of years worth of research about the systematic theft of Europe's greatest art treasures during World War II.
Nicholas, successfully takes on the mammoth task of tracing the Nazi's activities of collecting works of art deemed appropriate, and destroying or selling for profit those deemed degenerate.Despite the daunting challenge, Nicholas does a wonderful job of weaving the stories of stolen art and their owners - from the forced sales and confiscations, their movement across borders, storage, recovery and restitution.
This book was assigned summer reading when I was in high school.
I was in the IB program, and we were going to discuss this book extensively in my social studies class.
I sort of skimmed.
Really it probably couldn't even be called skimming.
I was really afraid I was going to have a serious problem in class.
I was relieved to find when school started that NONE of the other students had read it either.
The teacher mentioned the book a couple of times, but we never really discussed it and after the first week he never brought it up again.
The author chronicles both the theft of European art works by the Nazis and then the collection, storage return of the same works to their rightful owners at the end of the second world war.
It seems that the Nazis left no stone unturned in their search for works of art which suited the racial bias - never mind the destruction of the so called "decadent" works.
Not only paintings, drawings, sculpture were stolen and transported to the Reich, but complete households of furniture, cutlery and porcelain were shipped too.The efforts of the MFA are chronicled in some detail and it is heartening to read of their unstinting efforts to return so many works to their rightful owners.
While the topic of this book is definitely intriguing, it contains a LOT of information.
There are so many names, committees, museums and locations, I often felt bogged down by the details when I would have enjoyed a much broader perspective instead of all of the minutiae.
Overall, it is a great resource cataloguing the movement of art during WWII, the various conservation efforts taken, the unscrupulous acquisitions by the Nazis, and the tedious tracking of missing works after the war.
The photographs were a great enhancement.
Though I found it tedious at times, it is in important aspect of history that is still relevant to this day.
This book is an excellent text book of the period of the Second World War and the treasures that were stolen during the same. I got weary with all the names thrown in that the Author assumes the reader knows. I was reading this book to learn more about Art and the book failed in this respect. I finally finished the book. It is an excellent reference book but not too readable to me.
Wow, what a wealth of information about the history of the looting, sale, and hiding places of the great works of art in Europe during WW11. The mystery of many of these priceless objects continues today. Fascinating and in depth study.
A thorough examination of the Nazi looting of the art treasures of Europe including purges of 'degenerate art' (basically Picasso, Matisse, et al).There is also a very interesting film covering the topic.
I had never even thought about the art in Europe during World War II, but this book was so fascinating, the lengths people went to acquire and keep safe the art works is so amazing, even if you are not an art lover it is a must read.
Highly appealing topic. Very extensive facts. Recommended for really interested readers or academics.
very interesting, detailed book; fascinating to look at WWII thru the lens of art
