https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20949483-the-grand-banks-caf
A call from a former schoolmate-turned-teacher sends Chief Inspector Maigret to investigate the murder of Captain Octave Fallut in the Norman fishing port of Fécamp soon after his ship, a cod-fishing vessel called the Océan returns after three months fishing off the Grand Banks in Canada’s Newfoundland.
So how will Maigret get to the bottom of Captain Fallut’s death?(view spoiler)[Although they hail from different social classes, the femme fataleAdèle Noirhomme reminds me very much of The Great Gatsby’s Daisy Buchanan.
(hide spoiler)]Like so many Maigret novels, The Grand Banks Café comes to a bittersweet ending, one that makes you ask, “If only…” at several different points in the novel.
Un’ inchiesta non ufficiale, lontana dalla sua Parigi, coinvolge il nostro Maigret, più solitario e 
Dopo una pausa di due mesi riprendo con piacere a leggere una nuova indagine del commissario Maigret e sono soddisfatto della scelta.
Alla sua nona indagine il nostro commissario si trova in vacanza con sua moglie in Normandia su invito di un suo amico che vuol far scagionare un giovanotto di sua conoscenza dall’accusa di aver ucciso il capitano del peschereccio sul quale ha appena viaggiato.
Come suo modo Maigret inizia ad indagare conoscendo man mano i vari personaggi che popolano la locanda di fronte al porto e dove ci farà respirare l'aria salmastra dell'oceano Atlantico e il puzzo dei merluzzi appena pescati.
So we’re told about a great passion here – a proper amour fou – and yet filtered through the doughy presence of Inspector Maigret, it all becomes quite pedestrian.
Apparently it was disorientating, enveloping, consuming passion – but we never really get a sense of it, it’s always at one step remove, and that does make for an oddly disconcerting read.Here we have Maigret as freelance advisor, aiding a different police force in the investigation of a sea captain’s murder.
Particularly Mrs Maigret, who makes her presence felt here in a way she hasn’t before.
ToutSimenon:Octave Fallut, capitaine du chalutier l'« Océan », a été découvert étranglé, dans un bassin du port de Fécamp.
Le télégraphiste Le Clinche, que l'on a vu rôder aux alentours du bateau, est soupçonné et arrêté.
Maigret est informé de l'affaire par un ancien ami, instituteur à Quimper, qui lui demande de prouver l'innocence de Le Clinche.
Esta es sólo la segunda novela de Simenon que leo pero confirma mi impresión anterior: un escritor que ha sido capaz de despojar el oficio de novelista hasta lo esencial.
En esta novela Maigret investiga un caso de persecución de la luz verde, como Scott Fitzgerald en el Gran Gatsby.
No estoy seguro de que Simenon haya hecho otro tanto: deja de celebrar a la verdadera heroina del caso: Marie, la prometida del telegrafista, a quien con escrúpulo pequeño-burgués condena por ser hija de escrupuloso comerciante pequeño-burgués ignorando sus enormes cualidades y es incapaz de identificar la felicidad allá donde se encuentra: en ver jugar a tu hijo con una peonza.
"Everyone has had a sight of the same adventure come his way at least once in his life!
. We cry hot tears, we shout, we rage!
Then, a couple of weeks later, you look at Marie Léonnec and you wonder how on earth you could have fallen for someone like Adèle." While unofficially investigating the murder of a ship's captain (Octave Fallut) in The Grand Banks Café (originally published as Au rendez-vous des Terre-Neuvas in 1931), Inspector Maigret encounters a femme fatale (Adèle), a "woman who was young, attractive, desirable, but whose vulgarity gave her an aura of danger." Georges Simenon's ninth Maigret mystery is everything one would expect in a Maigret page turner, and is recommended for anyone who has a taste for French pulp noir.
Il commissario, musone come non mai, indaga come suo costume, riducendo al massimo l’azione in favore di un attento studio psicologico dei personaggi che, attraverso un vero e proprio processo di identificazione, gli consente di pervenire alla soluzione della vicenda e, disgustato da tutti quanti, tenersela per sé.
Si passa difatti dall’abbrutimento alcoolico dei marinai alla ristretta mentalità piccolo-borghese di Marie e di suo padre (le magagne dei commercianti arricchiti sono uno dei pallini di Simenon) per giungere al disvelamento della vera essenza che si nasconde dietro alla prima impressione che possono dare l’accusato Le Clicnhe e il defunto capitano Fallut: i loro destini sono legati dalla figura di Adèle, procace prostituta di insolita volgarità anche per lo scrittore belga.
I suppose I will get used to this motif if I read enough Maigret novels; but, even given the obvious differences between French police procedures in the 1930’s and more contemporary methods, I find it odd. This is another story where Maigret, working unofficially on a case to help a friend, solves a murder but keeps the information to himself.
The accused killer, Le Clinche, is a former student of a professor who knows Maigret and who asks him to prove Le Clinche’s innocence.
Maigret agrees, but the crew is uncooperative, and Le Clinche himself has something to hide, though it may not be what he’s accused of.
I enjoyed this one – it’s full of vivid characters, and as always it’s fascinating to watch Maigret employ his method of getting to know the people involved to understand their motivations, which is often the missing piece of the puzzle.
I read through this quickly and enjoyed it more than expected. there was almost a ghost ship element to this story, and the peculiar incidents resulting in rumors of an "evil eye" grabbed my attention. the secondary characters display a surprising amount of pathos and obnoxiousness. I also found myself feeling so sad for Madame Maigret and her pale, meaningless existence
I particularly liked the setting and maritime context of this Simenon. I felt it had a darker and deeper feel than others I have read. Very enjoyable and kept me mystified to the last.
It is similar in design to another book written at this time, A Crime in Holland.In this particular story we learn a good deal about the perils of fishing; the superstitions of the men who worked these boats and the tensions on board at sea for 3 long months.
It is a fascinating insight into France and police work from this era, long before many of the modern CSI type of solutions could be determined.This is a unfathomable crime which Maigret investigates thoroughly by questioning, observing the major players and seeping in a sense of time and place.
A former pupil of his, Pierre Le Clinche a wireless operator on the Océan, is being held for the murder of its Captain.
Once there it appears that Pierre does not want to talk about anything that occurred on-board the ship.
The trip that the Océan had just been on was plagued by disasters, a crew mate fell and broke his leg, the ships boy got lost at sea and the fish they were bringing back hadn't been salted correctly to preserve them.
I really enjoy Simenons work and the characters he creates.
Who is considered responsible for the death of a human being: the man who killed him, or the person who instigated the murderer to commit the crime ...
is enough to live with the guilt, there are crimes that are better not punish for not cause further damage.
It's the first time I read a story about the Commissioner Maigret, where he issues a personal opinion about a possible suspect and Simenon shows his character in everyday situations - being affectionate with his wife-.
Maigret extremely intuitive always surprises to the reader, unveiling the mystery of the murder and basting the facts.
There is always a simple story but in most of these stories there is an aspect of moral ambiguity.
The murderer is guilty but you wish he or she was not guilty or he is not technically guilty but there is a lot of guilt the person should bear.
This story does have for me some unbelievable aspects.
I cannot believe that a woman would agree to sleep under the bed for a man she was playing with.
But it was a quick read and it made you aware that the basis hunger or lust can overcome a young person until they are crazy.
The case this time around involves solving the murder of a sea captain who has just returned from a 3-month cod-fishing voyage to the Grand Banks off Newfoundland.
This is only my second Maigret novel but coincidentally both murder cases have occurred when Maigret was on vacation.
I’m sure this is entirely coincidental but I do wonder just how often his vacations are usurped by murders requiring solving.I didn’t enjoy this one as much as the first one I read but I do have one more on my shelf and I will give it a go soonish.
Simenon packs more understanding of human characters and of their relationships - in all classes and milieux - in 150 pages, than many a revered novelist in 500. Plus a strong narrative and sense of place.In this case humble and not-so-humble Normandy fishing port inhabitants. Following a well-respected trawler captain's uncharacteristic behaviour during a recently ended voyage and his death straight after his return, Maigret is called in by an old friend to help prove the innocence of a shy young radio operator who will not reveal what he saw. Why ...?
A oggi, lo considero il Maigret più debole che ho letto. Nonostante il fatto che la mancanza di azione e quindi l'approfondimento psicologico-umano sia l'aspetto principale, qui ritengo che sia un po' troppo macchinoso e reiterato sugli stessi schemi. Sempre appassionante, ma con il tiro un po' fiacco
Excellent. A crime that is so much more than a crime. A doomed voyage. The Evil Eye. No one is guilty. All are guilty.
"I love reading Simenon.He makes me think of Chekhov."-William Faulkner.  A good read.
Well, Mrs Maigret finally gets her husband to go away with her, but it's not where she had wanted to go, and he finds himself working unofficially on a murder case.
Best Maigret I've read so far.(Not sure how many I've read--maybe 10-15).
Era come una scena venuta male, forse per via di quell'ambiente spoglio e ostile"); la serenità di un rapporto coniugale ben riuscito ("Dormi bene!" disse Maigret tirandosi la coperta fino al mento.
E il bacio che le diede in fronte fu profondamente vero); ed il disprezzo, forse eccessivo ma stranamente comprensibile, che Simenon ha sempre manifestato per i borghesi perbene ("Si avvertiva troppo l'atmosfera della bottega di Quimper, le discussioni di prima della partenza, i pettegolezzi dei vicini").Quindi, alla fine è un ottimo libro anche questo.
The voyage of the Océan seemed ill-fated from the very beginning, starting with a sailor falling from the derrick when they set sail, followed by the cabin boy being washed overboard days later, and culminating with the murder of the captain shortly upon their return after months of poor fishing and a spoiled catch.
The ship's radio operator is arrested for the captain's murder, and Chief Inspector Maigret agrees to look into the case at the request of an old friend who is convinced of the young man's innocence.Maigret runs into a wall from the very start.
The sailors close ranks and refuse to talk to an outsider aside from muttering about "the evil eye." The radio operator himself is extremely tight-lipped.
It's always difficult to describe a Maigret mystery to an outsider.
Georges Simenon penned over 70 Maigret mysteries from the 30's to the late 60's.
During that time, Inspector Maigret of Paris is able to interact with all strata of French society in all regions of the country.
I once read an essay by Jacques Barzun in which he praised the Maigret mysteries as successful "whydonnits" not "whodunnits." I couldn't agree more, so I will not continue for fear of disturbing this excellent plot.
Maigret is asked to investigate, informally, the death of a trawler captain allegedly by the young radio operator, the pupil of an old Maigret friend.
Young Pierre Le Clinche is engaged to a fine young girl who comes to his defense but he seems distant to her.
The crew is disputive once ashore and there is talk of an evil eye plaguing the ship which drove the late captain to madness.
There is also the death of a smart Alec cabin boy allegedly washed overboard.
Eventually the truth comes out, but will the crime, or crimes, be punished?
Il capitano del peschereccio muore subito dopo l'attracco. Tre mesi di pesca maledetta. Gran parte del merluzzo è marcito e salato male. Il telegrafista viene accusato dell'omicidio...ma c'è molto di più in questa vicenda. Qualcuno dice che c'è il malocchio, la sfortuna, il destino...Un altro bel giallo di Simenon con un Maigret assorto nella risoluzione di un caso molto particolare. L'atmosfera pesante dell'ambiente marinaro, le risse, l'alcol a fiumi e la descrizione dei personaggi come sempre azzeccati.Emerge un sottile disgusto per la piatta vita borghese, la monotonia, la meticolosità dei gesti quotidiani.
Maigret lezen werkt verslavend. Het gaat niet zozeer om een crimineel onderzoek, een enquête, maar wel om een psychologische strijd tussen verschillende personages... geen vingerafdrukken, geen laboratoriumanalyses, geen sporenonderzoek, maar een moeizaam lezen en ontleden van gevoelens, reacties, blikken, uitspraken... Als altijd werkt ook het kader, de omgeving, stimulerend... en wie, zoals ik, opgegroeid is in een kustdorp waar de visserij heel belangrijk was en vertrouwd is met de IJslandvaart, kan een extra visueel beeld toevoegen aan de ontwikkeling van het verhaal.
Penguin had a great idea when they decided to publish Maigret stories that had never been published before in English. The thing is that there was probably a reason why these were never published in English. For the most part, they are not the best of the Maigret stories -- like this one, originally published in 1931. But if you're a Maigret fan, you won't mind, in fact, you'll probably enjoy spending more time with Maigret.
