https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/76909.Last_Bus_to_Woodstock
Suffering from Morse deprivation on the TV I decided to reread all Colin Dexter's novels, in order this time.
It is very much of its time as regards prevailing attitudes to women, and Colin Dexter's masculinity is rather too present.
It is amusing to watch the TV episodes where Morse and Lewis seem to spend an inordinate amount of time wandering around the Radcliffe Camera - why?
The first book in the series that brought us the great television series starring John Thaw as the irascible yet brilliant Inspector Morse, a spin-off with Inspector Lewis and a prequel series, Endeavour, leaves me, well, underwhelmed.
I expected Morse to be quirky yet brilliant.
One can make certain allowances for when a book was written but there are limits.
He drives a beat-up old Lancia, whatever the heck that is.I'm not sure at this point if I will read more Morse books.
If I do, I will probably skip forward to a point where Collins writing, and Morse's character, are better developed.
Morse is a confirmed bachelor who is attracted to women, liquor and complex homicide investigations.
Here we also meet the man who would be Morse's sidekick throughout the series, the much put-upon Sergeant Lewis.As the book opens, two attractive young women are waiting for a bus.
Morse is assigned to the case and his first challenge is to find the young woman who was waiting for the bus with the victim.
Why won't she own up to the obvious truth?Other obstacles block Morse's investigation and along the way, he will become enamored with one of the women central to the case.
I read this book in anticipation of going to Oxford this summer.
I wanted to visit the world of Inspector Morse, as he is so beloved in Oxford.The book started strong- a grizzly rape/murder.
I didn't believe the ending at all- There were no dropped clues on the murderer till the big reveal.
The ending left me shaking my head in disbelief and feeling disappointed after such a build up.
Sorry Inspector Morse-I did like you and your sidekick Lewis, so I may give you another try.
I have read that your plot lines do become stronger, but this one left me perplexed.
I'm reading mysteries - and this was grand!
As I reflected a day later, though, on the characters, I thought of how every single man, despite his flaws, was an engaging character of some sympathy, even the young man addicted to porn.
(His mother loved him, remember?) But the women, without exception, were protrayed in a negative light.
How much of this did we absorb as young women?The other factor which makes the mystery, despite its excellent plotting and engaging male characters, difficult to recommend was the constant drinking.
Every third page someone ordered a pint, offered a whiskey, or poured himself a stiff drink.
This is the first book of a series of Detective Chief Inspector Morse.
It was well written and kept the attention of the reader.
The plot was very difficult to follow.
But, the writing was so interesting and captivating you as the reader had to keep reading until the end.
Chief Inspector Morse appears to be dumbfounded and Sergeant Lewis seems to be at his wits end when the pieces of the puzzle start to fit together and the killer is revealed.
Sylvia Kaye is murdered behind a pub and not much evidence is find and the clues are few and far in between.
A must read for mystery lovers.
One the one hand there are things that make it quite clear that this book was written in the 70s...and by things I mean some blatant sexism.
That makes easy reading but also means that I can't remember the names of half of the MCs in crime-novels I read recently because they were all quite similar (some had as distinguishing feaute a Very Tragic Past).
Having recently watched several episodes of the TV version of Morse, I was curious to revisit the books to see how they compared. Now I've read the first one again I'm keen to continue with the rest of the series.I'd forgotten how different the books are to the TV series. Some characters don't appear in the books at all and Morse and Lewis are quite distinct from their TV personas. The story in the book was much more involved than the TV episode and both can be enjoyed without any spoiling of entertainment or indeed plot.
I can't stand when a mystery is solved in the end with information not previously given to the reader. Part of the enjoyment of reading mysteries is trying to figure out what has happened while the story progresses. If the author keeps vital information from the reader, that is impossible.
I wonder whether that was the turning point for detective fiction: when the detectives stopped being amateur sleuths, private detectives, sweet little old ladies with razor-sharp insights, and started being the (probably more realistic but really much more boring) actual police detectives.
For some reason, most of the second-generation murder mystery detectives - policemen - tend to be a bit samey, a bit boring, probably because they had to follow rules and laws and pesky things like procedures...All this is a long-winded way of saying that, while I enjoyed this book, Morse is yet another highly-hyped fictional detective who didn't live up to his reputation, for me.
Last Bus to Woodstock is the first book in the Inspector Morse series by Colin Dexter.
Within hours, one of the young women is found dead in the parking lot of a pub in Woodstock.While the story was generally interesting and proved to be a challenge to solve, I was less than happy with the lead character of the book, Inspector Morse.
(reinforcing the bumbling detective feeling)I read this book as a group read on LibraryThing and we had a very lively discussion – much of it centered on Morse.
Ah, there's something about a classic British murder mystery, whether it be from P.
This is the first of he Inspector Morse series and he first for me from this author.
The author lays down a surfeit of clues and red herrings, enough to keep one from becoming too confident about deciphering the culprit(s) until the very end.
It does demand your attention, particularly to the names of all the various players, and on occasion I found myself pausing to recollect just who I was reading about at any given moment and their role in this mystery, but I can live with that.
A worthwhile read for any fan of British mystery.
A book that reeks of 1975. Horny, hard drinking Morse falls for a murder suspect 20 years his junior. Also, a man and a woman in bed together raise important metaphysical questions about rape:Man: Do you believe a young girl can get raped?Woman: It must be jolly difficult for the man.Man: Mm.Woman: Have you ever raped a woman?Man: I could rape you, any day of the week.Woman: But I wouldn't let you. I wouldn't put up any resistance. Peter.....rape me again!
Eerily nostalgic murder mystery with elements of suspense, humor, mystery and complexity in everything from the characters to the scenery.
Te critics are right--you may have seen Chief Inspector Morse on "Masterpiece Mystery", but you won't truly know him until you have read him.
The ultimate delights, howver, were in getting to know Chief Inspector Morse and his patient, stalwart sidekick Sergeant Lewis.
Morse is the great mystery in his life, and his own education and social standing are nearly polar opposites to Morse's Oxford education, love of opera, fascination with books, and obsession with drink.
This book is perfect reading for a rainy or wintry day spent by the fireside.
I had never read any of the Morse novels before and have never seen the tv series, so I had no preconceptions about this book and no knowledge about it, except that it was set in Oxford.
Inspector Morse himself is a slightly grumpy, bad tempered and elusive leading character and the author was obviously feeling his way with him.
Sergeant Lewis, who works with him on the case, seems both a more grounded and less troubled character.The novel begins with two girls waiting for a bus to Woodstock.

Well, I can see why a TV producer thought that the characters in this book were interesting enough to bring to the screen, but I did not enjoy this book.
What I especially didn't like was how much of the evidence was hidden from the reader.
Morse would talk to someone, and the author would not write about what was said.
Or Morse would read a ledger, and we wouldn't get to see what was on it.
So much was hidden, as if Colin Dexter were trying for a great "ah hah!" moment, that the reader ends up being left in the dark until the very end.
This is the first in the Inspector Morse series. I enjoyed these books for not only the mystery, but for Morse himself and his relationship with his colleague, Lewis. Morse is a snob who drinks too much, loves opera, and is very protective of his Jaguar. Poor Lewis, his long-suffering sergeant, admires Morse's talents for solving the cases, but recognizes that Morse has serious flaws. There's often an undertone of classism as suspects stereotype Morse as working class and Morse returns their disdain. Meanwhile Lewis is a reminder that "regular folk" are more than regular.
New hard boiled series to love!
Written in a typical British "literaturesque" style, Last Bus To Woodstock definitely catches the cold and dark mood of the plot.
Mr. Dexter reminds us of a dark England with the trademark characteristics of the Oxford community.
It reminds you of the lazy English life where lots of theoretical work flow and bitter ale seem to be commanding the lifestyle all around.
Passion, love and lust form the premise of the story.
The pace is easy-going with clues help the story meander from a surprise to a surprise.
They have killed the story out there completely.
This is the first in the Inspector Morse series and introduces us to Morse and Sgt Lewis, who joins Morse for the first time in this book.
I've been watching the TV Series based on the books, and oddly enough this was the 5th in the TV series.
Morse is much like he is in the TV series, although there are also some differences, his looks, his car, etc.
He still likes his beer and his women.
Excellent introduction to the series.
I'm glad I've started both the TV Series and now the book series.
In this the first Inspector Morse mystery Morse and Sergeant Lewis combine to solve the brutal murder of a young and sexy woman. What is incredible to me is that Colin Dexter, whom I've had the great pleasure of meeting, wrote this book on a kitchen table while on holiday. He then blindly sent it around to the publishers and hit the proverbial jackpot!! This was a re-read for me, I originally read it in the 90's.
Inspector Morse is...I'm just going to be frank, a dick. He snaps at Sergent Lewis and all the other police officers anytime there isn't any evidence right in front of his face. He drinks on the job and is a creep on any woman who may be a witness or connected to the case. The only reason I rated it so highly was because the mystery was great, it kept me guessing until the end and ended with an unexpected twist.
I had heard that they were good old-fashioned murder mysteries with clever plots, which is something I am always hunting for, and so I thought I’d give them a go.The first book in the series, Last Bus to Woodstock, was published in 1975, and so it reads like historical fiction now.
However, the mystery itself is really clever and surprising, and I happen to love classical music and cryptic clues, and so I quite enjoyed the character of Inspector Morse, who is much lazier and bumbling in the novel than he is in the TV show.

Άλλος ένας DI της Αγγλικής αστυνομίας με ιδιαίτερο χαρακτήρα και μεθόδους, φυσικά κι αυτός ενδιαφέρον αν σου αρέσει το είδος. Πλοκή χωρίς τρύπες, σε κρατάει μέχρι το τέλος και για το ποιος και για το πως. Λίγο σεξιστικούλι σε 2 σημεία, ίσως συγχωρείται λόγω εποχής (για την οποία γκούγκλαρα κλους, δεν την καταλαβαίνεις διαφορετικά αν δεν πάρεις ντε φάκτο ότι μιλά για τα χρόνια στα οποία γράφτηκε/ εκδόθηκε).Πέρασα καλά 3,5*
S0-so murder mystery. The first in the British Inspector Morse series started in the 70's. Began to drag for me about halfway through. I did not figure out who the killer was though and that is always a plus.
Having tried Agatha Christie, therefore, I've turned to Colin Dexter and this, the first of his Inspector Morse novels.I already knew to expect some deviation from the television portrayal of Morse: Dominic Sandbrook in his books on the 1970s occasionally refers to Dexter's work to show how the sexual politics of a different age were reflected in its literature.
We don't see Lewis actually do any of this work - perhaps because the details of police procedure are outside Dexter's experience - but as far as Morse is concerned it is done and that's what matters.And this leaves Morse above the fray to consider the case as an intellectual exercise like one of his beloved crossword puzzles.
My first experience of Morse - I used to watch the TV programme and was always worried that the books would be too much for me - too clever (that't not to say that I'm not bright - I read to relax, I don't necessarily want to think too much about what I read).
It's very clear that while Lewis respects his boss he doesn't necessarily like him, but does help him (especially when Morse falls through a ladder and damages his foot).But I digress.
