https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50441.How_to_Be_Your_Dog_s_Best_Friend
A few years ago, I taught myself nonviolent training methods studying the works of Paul Owens and Karen Pryor, among others.
Yet by carefully following the methods and principles, I trained her to be an extraordinarily well-behaved dog who happens to love everyone she meets.I never once jerked on the leash, let alone hit her or punish her by doing anything more than ignoring her.
Of course, this should only be "mildly unpleasant", so it must be OK."How hard do you hit the dog?" the Monks ask us (p.75).
Taught correctly, the 'obedience commands' provide a positive experience for the dog--they want to perform them because they know that good things happen.
Their methods aren't for everyone.However, I think they have an amazing approach, which mimics my feelings on dog training to a T.
I like how they want the dog with you and as part of your life, but without being mushy and spoiling them rotten.
I think the monks have a method similar to NILIF (nothing in life is free), and it creates a healthy balance between being a 24/7 mean alpha dog and being a pushover.I did have to groan when I just saw the review that these guys are like Cesar!
They've been breeding and training dogs probably before Cesar was born.
I don't believe for a minute that St. Francis would approve.Here's what I like about the book: their concept of outdoor kenneling and making sure the dog has the right kind of setup, raising/training puppies, the "Round Robin Recall" exercise, and their suggestion of not training your dog to attack but instead fake it.
A million things can go wrong and I can't believe they'd put that in a book to be attempted by desperate people looking to fix their dog's behavior issues (people like that will try anything without thinking through it.) The disciplining of course was blowing my mind.
The book offers a lot of good training tips and insights into the canine mind, which is something I think all dog owners would benefit from to help understand their dogs better.
Apart from the training advice and techniques given in the book, I think the most valuable thing this book has to offer are the monks' insights into the canine mind, and how dogs think and behave.
While a couple of physical punishment methods are provided, the monks qualify their use by saying: - "physical discipline or correction is never an arbitrary training technique to be applied to each and every dog for all offenses" - "In considering their use, you should follow the rule of always using the least amount of force necessary to change the behavior.
I have never owned a dog but am doing some reading to prepare to get one soon. I like their overall approach and attitude. I can definitely see myself referencing this during dog training later too.
I appreciated some of the things they said, especially in the beginning. But this book drove home the point that every dog training book must be read with a grain of salt and an open mind. I was honestly a bit horrified with the discipline chapter. Everyone has their own opinion on this, but I feel that those methods are old school and very out dated. We've moved beyond that, surely! I know I have. All in all, a book with some interesting viewpoints but not to be taken word for word.
This is an superb training manual but very rigid and strict. I agree that a dog must know who its owner is and have a degree of fear and respect...but I am softer. I prefer a positive training approach. Reward the positive. Despite this philosophical difference I do think this is an excellent reference and one I would recommend.
Full of good humor; insights into dog and human nature; and just general, all-around practical tips. This book was worth every page!
I like to think that in a sober moment any dog lover would admit that our pets are not children, but we often treat them as if they were.
If that sounds like I, too, am recommending that we treat our dogs like children, the key is in the "what they really are" phrase, because the goal of one activity is to raise a human being, the other is to tame a wolf.
Again, our monkish friends at New Skete get the answer right: Dogs are not children, and we do a disservice to them when we go too far in treating them like they are.
Oh, those monks are a clever bunch! I, however am throughly biased...I trained my dog the New Skete way. Perfect.
I highly recommend this for new dog-owners, or anyone who is eager to reconsider mankind's history and relationship with dogs.
I feel this book is great for those who are planning to become dog-owners, and want more than just practical preparation; this book offers an emotional and spiritual foundation too.
Yes, I said "spiritual"-- the book is written by Monks after all!
I really appreciated that the Monks offer advice that considers what is good for the dog, not only what is good for the humans.
Not a dry read by any means, and lovingly written by true dog lovers-- I highly recommend this book!
Much more narrative than how-to.
While I like the ideas and the sentiments, I'm not so keen on the personalized stories.
For practical, "do this" advice, I prefer Brian Kilcommons.
I used his Good Owners, Great Dogs to train my last dog (who was universally recognized as a beyond exceptional dog: when my husband and I began dating, we left half a pizza on the coffee table and went out to a movie.
It was still there when we got home, absolutely untouched).
I'll be consulting his new(er) book, My Smart Puppy (god, what a horrific, saccharine title) for our next dog.
Reading these books again as I have a puppy coming home tomorrow! I just love these books. Their philosophy on dogs and training totally appeals to me as a lover of large shepherd mixes.Being Maurice Sendak approved gives it bonus points. He knows where the wild things are!
Read this book if you want your dog to be afraid of you and ruin any possible relationship you'd have with him.
Good book but I mis-read the title.I was just looking for a book that would teach me how to be one of my dog's good friends.
Some of their ideas of discipline:The Shake Down-- they tell you to grab the loose skin around the dog (after having him sit) and lifting him up if you can, then shaking him quickly.
Actually, most of their "discipline" can be dangerous.With these not only being extremely violent, they are supported by a very ill understanding of dogs.
When your dog hits the end of the line, he may well go flying in the air in surprise."WTF?Everything is about force.
Force your dog to sit a few times, and if they don't get it, use the leash.
Force your dog to...And the ironic thing?
A loving, thorough manual for training and orienting a dog.
Although, I guess there isn't enough discourse for all the reviewers who find the monks cruel (below).
For example a reviewer is horrified at the remark "How hard should you hit a dog?
it wasn't hard enough." There are two paragraphs before this (p74-75) stating that a cuff under the chin (mimicking a mother dog) should be reserved for serious offenses, for an older dog and presumes an already good relationship has been established.
They give detailed instructions so that the dog is not harmed and should never be struck from above.
The monks have great advice for leash training, feeding, kenneling, and basic commands.
One caveat to this review: I read the old edition of this book and some techniques given are outdated.
But read along with other dog-training books I found the no-nonsense approach to bringing up your pup to be refreshing.
If you can't devote time and consistent effort to your dog neither one of you will benefit.The part of the Monks' advice I found of most benefit was the series of chapters on problem behaviors.
The best cure is prevention, engineering a dog's environment to promote good behavior and prevent the bad.
We purchased this book many years ago and used it to train two rescue dogs, one of whom was a huge HUGE handful (especially destructive and out of control misbehavior).
And that "handful of a dog" was often cited by friends and neighbors as turning into the "perfect" dog.
He lived a long happy life, but has since passed.Since we gifted that book and several other copies to friends to help them, today we received in the mail the new revised version of the book.
Again it will help guide us developing these precious challenges into becoming the next generation of "perfect" dogs.Buy this book.
About 99% of the book is how to connect with and train your dog, with super specific technique, and 1% is teaching how to the physically discipline the dog in the very rare cases that the dog does not respond to any sort of correction.
The monks are extremely clear that they do not advocate any sort of violence or impatience with dogs.
Positive reinforcement may work for some dogs, but animals are physical creatures.
This book is long, dense, and maybe not for everyone, but in no way does it advocate abusive or violent methods of dog training.
Lots of useful practical advice about grooming, socialization, exercise, feeding, how to read a pedigree.
Ilana Reisner's "The learning dog: a discussion of training methods" is a neat review of the scientific research on training methods and worth reading.
It shows that dogs that are "dominance-trained" have way more behavior problems than dogs that are trained with positive reinforcement methods.
Also, Brian Hare's "The genius of dogs" shows that the very assumptions underlying dominance-based training are false.
In sum, look elsewhere for training advice.
I suggest Ian Dunbar's "Before and after getting your puppy" and Zak George's "Dog training revolution".
I wasn't raised to have the same wonderful feelings about dogs that it seems every single other person on the planet has.
I started grinding my teeth and feeling anger after the dogs came into the house.
I'm considering letting the dogs sleep in our bedroom now.
We had private training lessons for our first dog.
They were helpful, but we didn't keep up with the techniques for long after the lessons ended.
Now I'm considering what it would take to dive back in a get the advanced techniques down.
Perhaps my dreams of beloved, impeccably trained dogs are not so empty after all.
This was a great beginner dog training book. It covered how to’s and problem solving for all your basic commands. I liked the back story on how the monks train their dogs and they even train other people’s dogs for a few. If I lived in England - I’d definitely have these guys train my dog!
I am down a rabbit hole of all things dogs right now. I really enjoyed this book. Great information, lots of game ideas for your dog, total emphasis on relationship—worth the read if you are looking for ideas in training your dog.
Worth revisiting
Yes! The chapter on discipline saved my GSD from a shelter! A must read if you have a GSD puppy.
Truly helped me prepare for our first puppy.
A great read to prepare me for the adoption of my Catahoula mix. I definitely attribute the lessons I learned in this book to how smoothly the adoption went and how quickly we were able to bond.
If you want the best dog in the world, read this.
Dogs and monks... what’s not to love?
