https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18846286-amanda
Very old book, free download from Kindle, I did really like a couple of the sections, one reminded me of picking blackberries at the saddle club a long, long time ago. Amanda and Martin went blackberry picking in a place that sounded similar, old fence covered with brambles and berries.Enjoyed reading most of it, skipped the other parts.
I have always admired the Mennonites and Amish. They live a simple life, but loaded with morals.
really good
I liked the book.
It was sweet and had a good vs bad plot mixed in, and the main character was not a stunning beauty, which I liked.
It was slow, and I was hoping it would actually have a plot at some point, but as I continued to read, it didn't disappoint.
If you are looking for intrigue, gripping plot twists, and edge of your seat entertainment, this might not be the book for you.
If you are looking for something with good moral values, no swearing, and something all ages could read, this is terrific!
This is an older book, and so it may be harder to find than some I've read.
It is the story of a young girl, raised in the Mennonite faith and her family.
It describes the plain life, and joys as she grows into adulthood and finds love.
The way of speaking and writing differs greatly from what you would normally read, but it is true to the times and Mennonite ways of speaking.
I found it very enjoyable and for those wanting a book for the poolside or a quiet evening in front of the fire it will more than fill the bill.
I love red headed Amanda. She grows up- 16yrs old... goes till she's 20 or 21. Yes, she gets married... I love her country life. There's not too many characters in the book. Her Aunt is an interesting one. I looked up that one flower- the moccasin? Neat flower, family of the irises? It has sword leaves.It's free for your kindle! I love simple books like these. It's suitable for a 12- whatever. Oh, I'd read it at 10 yrs old if I saw it in the library way back then.
Amanda's plightOne of the best of my beloved Amish novels! This has many a wonderful story about several. It is indeed a romance of much sweetness that occurs to several through thicketed twists. Finally love comes abounding through it all! A good recommend to all!
I loved this story..I enjoyed this story of the lives of a group of people in another time. The author did a wonderful job of telling of the adventures and romance of a girl and boy and the family and friends they grew up with.
I always enjoy stories about the Plain people, and this one was nice as well, but I found it a bit choppy at time and I struggled to place it in time. It talked about the introduction of cars, but was that to mean all cars, or simply cars in Lancaster county? A fun read overall.
Awsome romance mafe me cry and wish there was romance like that foreverI would highly recommend this book to everyone so that they would never take each other for granted and always keep romance in their life forever
A quick and easy to read novella. The plot was easy to predict, but still very enjoyable. I wish the characters had more depth, but that is often the case in novellas. Ready most of the book while waiting i. Line at the DMV. It was a nice way to spend my time.
Young readers would also enjoy this book. It has a Little House on the Prarie vibe.
Interesting book depicting the lives of a small family. The children are not really raised Mennonite. These were sweet stories, kind of told from a "memory" point of view.
Read this book in one day. Loved the good old fashioned feeling and characters. A beautiful yet "simple" love story!
An easy read; held my interest quite raptly from beginning to end since I read about 80% of it in one sitting. Hardest part to get used to was the dialect, otherwise, quite enjoyable!
I learned more about the Mennonites, and differences from the Amish. The book was an easy read, free on my Kindle. The plot was simple, with a happy ending.
what a wonderful love story!
FantLoved it. was moving . I would definitely recommend this book to all my friends who like to read these Amish stories.
Just sweet, how I imagine my grandparents' home to have been--but with many more children, less wealth, and in a more barren Michigan.
Good ReadI. Really enjoyed reading this book. The story line was so believable. I would recommend this book to any woman young or old.
I enjoyed reading this book. It was so different from my usual reads.
Sweet story about a girl who eventually finds love staring her in the face. The man she really wanted was there all along. The same with Millie, the maid in the story.
Enjoyable, easy reading.Cute story. Can't beat a public domain free download. One of the first I read when I got a tablet.
This is a bit hard to follow along at the beginning due to the unusual language spoken/used, but you catch on as the book progresses.
BookYes good book really enjoyed it. Every one should read . very good story. Read it. . . . .
