https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/27827203-frostblood
Have you read any mainstream YA fantasy book over the past few years?
It often feels as if YA fantasy publishers deliberately go looking for new authors to retell the same old recycled plots.
Stick an attractive cover on the front and lets see if we can fool people into buying the same book over and over again.This book follows the heroine - Ruby - who is a Fireblood in a world where Frostbloods are the ruling class.
The book opens with her mother being murdered and Ruby being captured by Frostblood soldiers; incidentally, this opening is almost identical to Carve the Mark, where Akos' father is murdered by the Shotet before Akos, himself, is captured.
I’m actually feeling a bit unpatriotic right now, seeing that Elly Blake is Canadian and we all know that most books are written by American authors, so I felt quite proud of this lady for publishing a fantasy novel that seemed absolutely stupendous.But it’s not impressive, sadly.
I’m trying here… to find something positive to say about this book, and maybe the only thing I could say about it, something that can be said about most YA fantasy novels, is that this MAY appeal to you, if you have little to no experience with these types of novels.
Ruby is a fireblood that her mother has tried to keep hidden because firebloods are being killed out by the frostbloods, at least the evil ones.
They killed her mother, she wants King Rasmus to die!
Arcus takes Ruby back to the Abbey where she meets some wonderful people.
They want to help her be able to take down King Rasmus.
I love Arcus, he's my frost king =) There were a few things in the book that made me want to smack Ruby but it was still good.
I just love Ruby and Arcus!
UPDATEREAD THIS FOR THE SECOND TIME... LOVED IT.I really am enjoying my re-reading journey through books I loved !!I read this book in one sitting today, my god. it was good! Elly Blake has taken a world divided by belief and power. She has created strong characters, with strong bonds. AND DONT GET ME STARTED ON THE DISPLAY OF THE POWERS IN THIS BOOK.Really really enjoyed this novel and I look forward to reading the follow up...... next year..... omg next year, I might cry if i have to wait long

This is a Awsome debut novel.
It is excellent by any novels standards.
When an opportunity is presented to her, she is dubious of trusting her natural enemies as allies.This story has it all, well written, well paced, action, romance, and even great character development.
I like that fact that the characters natural personalities match their powers Ruby is fire so hot tempered, where as Frostbloods are portrayed is emotionally cold as they are powerful.
However the characters are not one dimensional the all develop through the story.
Stillness was a kind of violence in the hands of people who played at handing out pain.  This was the typical YA fantasy book that you see everywhere else. It's got similar plot twists, similar heroine's and hero's, the typical romance, the action that is set somewhere, the similar settings - it's all similar - but it's also something I don't get tired of. Elly Blake actually managed to make me laugh, smile, scream inside, and basically cover my mouth as the ending was coming because it was so
Ruby begins training at this different place with people that are nothing like her and little did she know that she would be able to trust some of these people, and even fall in love with the "icy young man." As she begins this train, Ruby is actually taken away to another cell but instead of staying there suffering, she is forced to fight and battle in the pit of the Frostblood King against Frostbloods when she is a Fireblood.
A focused mind is a powerful tool   Frostblood is one of the books which I enjoyed the most. After Red Queen, I was wanting more on blood discrimination. And few days ago I found this piece of writing which I will never forget.The most important thing I liked in this book is its way of writing. It is just beyond amazing. At least for me. I enjoyed reading how author expressed things. How she made me smile by some jokes in conversations, made me excited by the action scenes, made me sad by som
And few days ago I found this piece of writing which I will never forget.The most important thing I liked in this book is its way of writing.
Ruby is a Fireblood, the kind which is not acceptable in the kingdom where the Frost King, Rasmus, rules.
=>Discrimination, I liked how the world is divided in Firebloods and Frostbloods.
Even though I found him rude in the beginning but eventually I came to know why he was rude.=>Arena Scenes, those were very well written.
Because I had already liked the Arcus and Ruby.
I think this would have been a really fun story if I were just discovering YA fantasy books.
It was such a typical mix of every possible trope that I had a really hard time connecting with the story or caring much about anything.
She starts out the story having a mom who is present, but that bit of originality is shattered after a few pages when the evil king's soldiers come and kill the mom.
Ruby swears revenge and is taken to an abbey where she's trained as the prophesied super strong Fireblood who can take down the Frostblood king.
Natürlich gab es trotzdem eine Lovestory, allerdings mochte ich die sogar echt gerne.
Ich hätte mich zum Beispiel furchtbar über eine Karte am Anfang oder Ende des Buches gefreut, da ich manchmal etwas verwirrt vom Worldbuilding war.
Die Idee an sich und auch die Beschreibungen haben mir aber gut gefallen!
Auch die Art der Magie hat mir gefallen, hat mich alles in allem sehr an Sarah J.
Die Geschichte war auf keiner Seite langweilig, was nicht nur am interessanten Plot lag sondern auch am tollen Schreibstil von Elly Blake.
Aber grade deshalb hätte das Buch gern noch ein paar Seiten mehr haben können 👏🏻
Ruby is a Fireblood, a hunted people that can produce, you guessed it, fire, and who are immensely hot to the touch.
I just loved how antagonistic these two were towards each other and how they slowly began to find solace in one another-it was sweet, slow-burning, and the way he wanted to protect her, even when he didn’t like her, melted my [not so] icy little heart.
So, you know, once again I feel like I’m out on a limb here, by myself, loving a book that’s absolutely wonderful all by myself.
This book was FREAKING AWESOME!!! A MUST OWN! A book that has all the elements for an amazing book! A book you would lose sleep over because you can't put it down! A book you find yourself gripping to find out what happens and the anticipation of the action in this book! Alright, so this book is about Frostbloods and Firebloods. Frostbloods are people who can control ice and snow and are cold. Firebloods are hot and have control over fire in this book we do however have some people who have neit
Alright, so this book is about Frostbloods and Firebloods.
Firebloods are hot and have control over fire in this book we do however have some people who have neither.
He is NOT your typical swoon worthy male character and I LOVE THAT!
He constantly wears a hood, he is SUPER strong and good at his control over his powers of frost and tries to help Ruby with her powers and temper even though he has one as well...well when it comes to her that is.I loved their relationship, they were enemies with a common purpose.
3.5 StarsThis is one of those books I really wanted to love, but it just kept coming up short.If you're a fan of fantasy or YA, frostblood offers nothing new. To me, it just felt like a mix of different plots that has already been done before.With that said, I will read the sequel, because I've heard it's a step up from the first- and because I genuienly like her characters and world.Edited 24.12.17 due to spelling errors.
And there isn't anything wrong with that, either, but it also isn't going to get five stars or make any best of 2017 lists, for me.The magic in this world is separated from people that wield frost, Frostbloods, and people that wield fire, Firebloods.
I do fear for his story-line, though, because (not to get into spoiler territory) he has a disfigurement, and I feel like the author walked that line of sympathy and "I wish he was normal" and I was scared that I was going to have to give this book one star on quite a few occasions, but she never crossed that line.
The banter between the heroine and hero is more argumentative than fun and snarky.There isn't much to the plot so far at almost halfway through.
The Frostbloods are in power and are killing off the Firebloods.
The King is a Frostblood and the plan is to kill him.The heroine has no control over her powers, but is supposedly The Special One who can change things.
The male, Arcus, is facially scarred so there is a bit of the Beauty and the Beast vibe going on.
Oh well.I'm just going to move on.
Filled with all the YA fantasy cliches you could possibly think of. The lack of originality had me cringing and the writing didn't do anything to really make up for it.
List of All the cliché things that happen in this book: Exhibit A: special snowflake of a girl whose powers are the reason the world will be saved the girl however; doesn’t know this and when told she will probably be disbelieving and shocked and in denial
Oh boy, the plot felt extremely rushed and awkward at the first few chapters but the pacing starts to get better towards the middle and the end.
Overall, I would say that this book was alright and I might end up continuing the series to see if it gets better.
Even though it started off a bit slow, it was great that the relationships were allowed to develop slowly and surely.
I did like the world building even if it was an info dump told through story-telling around a campfire.
The war between the two magical factions reminded me of Victoria Aveyard's Red Queen series, so if you like that world, you'd like this one.
I like the main characters budding hate-to-love relationship and the gladiator style battle scenes were exciting to read.As for the characters, I thought Ruby was a bit slow on piecing things together.
I found myself swooning at times and I really liked their relationship.
The first in a new series, Frostblood follows our heroine, Ruby, who is a Fireblood in a world of Frostblood’s.
There, she begins to learn how to use her powers, and with the help of Arcus, begins to become strong enough to fight back.The world building in this book was fantastic.
All she wants is revenge against the Frost King and his army, and she doesn’t really care if she dies doing it.
Arcus was brooding, and aloof, but as the book progressed, we learned more and more about him.
The romance was fairly none existent for the most part of the book, but in the best way.
This book was a lot of fun! I was wary at first because the synopsis felt like a lot of other YA novels out there, but I was pleasantly surprised. There are a few YA tropes in this story but the author truly makes it her own, and everything just works. I loved the characters, especially Ruby, our heroine. She was sassy and strong, even when she was weak physically. It was interesting from beginning to end and just a really solid story.
3.5  Full Review Buddy read with fake Alexander What I liked - I loved that the book became interesting from chapter 1, instead of having a slow start.
It made me interested in the book immediately.
- I liked the Fire VS Frost storyline: Basically, there is a war against the firebloods (people who can control fire) by the Frostblood king.
What I didn't like - This book had some YA cliches; like the mysterious cold, distant, love interest (view spoiler)[ That turns out to be the supposedly dead former king  (hide spoiler)], and the 'chosen one' trope.
3.75/5 - This review can also be found on my blog, Dana and the BooksI've mentioned it before, but my weakness is characters overthrowing the governing power. I've also been reading a ton of YA fantasy lately so naturally Frostblood has been on my radar for a while now.Since moving to England I get 10x more excited whenever Canada is mentioned anywhere, and with author Elly Blake being Canadian, I got extra eager to read it. Overall, Frostblood was an enjoyable read and a solid addition to the Y
I've also been reading a ton of YA fantasy lately so naturally Frostblood has been on my radar for a while now.Since moving to England I get 10x more excited whenever Canada is mentioned anywhere, and with author Elly Blake being Canadian, I got extra eager to read it.
Actual rating: 3.5 starsBut history could be twisted and warped to suit the person telling it.From the first sight Frostblood might seem like nothing special; something that we all have read before: a girl with special powers that are either dangerous or forbidden and she has to hide them.
Yes, I want to call this book a hidden gem, because I find it to be one of the best debut novels I've read this year (I know the year is still young, but something tells me my opinion won't change in the end).
Fire, Ice, all equals a lot of fun!
3.75/5 starsReview Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VUF2L...Very particular rating, but honestly it just feels right. I enjoyed this book and although certain factors fell flat, I will be continuing on with this series since I do want to know what happens next. **eARC provided by the publishers through NetGalley in exchange for an honest review**
But Ruby's powers are unpredictable, and she's not sure she's willing to let the rebels and an infuriating (yet irresistible) young man called Arcus use her as their weapon.All she wants is revenge, but before they can take action, Ruby is captured and forced to take part in the king's tournaments that pit fireblood prisoners against frostblood champions.
Arcus, the frostblood who helps break out Ruby and train her at the monastery, seems cold and impervious, just like you'd expect from an ice wielder.

The book is fast-paced and it has a great plot all the way through.
In case you couldn't tell, I really loved this book.
:DRuby and Arcus are such great characters, and I love how Ruby is so unpredictable.
She was likeable and easy to root for throughout the novel.Arcus seems mysterious and has such great character development throughout the novel.
(view spoiler)[ Ruby and Arcus are so cute together at the end, I love it!
(hide spoiler)]To anybody who is thinking about reading this book; I highly recommend that you give it a go.
"There is always light in darkness.
It may only be a pinpoint, but it is there.
Follow it and you will find you way free." Wow wow wow wow wow4.5/5 stars Wow. It's been over 12 hours since I finished this book and I'm honestly still thinking about it and trying to process this.
When I first picked this book up 2 days ago, I put it on hold at chapter 7 because I was bored and it was putting me in a slump.
I honestly had low hopes for this book but damn it blew my expectations out of the water wh
I really loved this and I'd definitely recommend going into this book aware of the mixed reviews, but still with an open mind.I'm sure you can read the blurb for yourself, but basically Ruby is a fireblood which means she's in control of fire and it's basically her entire being and she's been hunted her whole life by the frostbloods who are the opposite of her because they have an old rivalry.
Here she trains to control her fire in order to eventually defeat the Frost King.The big stand out in this book was definitely the characters.
I flew through this book once I actually had the time to sit down and read it.
I still liked the world building and getting to know the characters in the first part.I thought the characters were really captivating.
I thought Brother Thistle and Gamut as well as Marella were great side characters.It usually rubs me the wrong way when love interests arent nice to each other but it wasnt too bad in this book.
I loved the concept of a world with the firebloods and frostbloods, especially how they came to be.
