https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/353937.Someone_to_Watch_Over_Me
This book reminded me of the time when my prostitute twin sister let me be mistaken for her when I had amenesia after being attacked by her angry john (and father of her unborn baby).
I was saved by an angry policeman who thought I was the hooker that once spurned him (no amount of money in the world!
That solution works very well for what hero Grant did to his heroine.
Not for all the tea in china, or the Boston harbor either, would I have forgiven Grant that easily.
I am not going to even officially mark it as a spoiler because if you didn’t see that coming from the very first page then you don’t deserve to be warned.
A certain tall, strapping Bow Street Runner named Grant finds a nearly dead woman fished out of Thames.
Neither do I want historical accuracy.
If I wanted historical accuracy I would read Dickens.
Eventually ‘Vivien’ learns the truth, finds out that Grant was a bit of a dick who lied to her and is angry at him for like half a page.
I didn’t find the characters quite as charismatic as those in her other books.It has an interesting plot – a courtesan with amnesia being pursued by someone who is trying to kill her and the man who saved her life and is now protecting her, bent on revenge for some wrong she did him in the past.
“Do you have an answer for me?”I loved those few sentences more than any others in the entire book because it gave me a real glimpse into him – an overgrown boy used to getting his own way and not sure what he would do if he didn’t.
OK, the "big twist" was obvious as was the "bad guy". Maybe I have read too many Romantic Suspense books over the years that I can pick up on these things! I loved Grant, a commoner, vowed never to wed ... but he is attracted to the lovely Vivien.I am really interested in the next book. Sir Ross Cannon sounds like an intriguing character.  “His lips pressed against her forehead and she felt him smile against her skin. "Believe me...the only place in the world I want to be is wherever you are."
OK, the "big twist" was obvious as was the "bad guy". Maybe I have read too many Romantic Suspense books over the years that I can pick up on these things! I loved Grant, a commoner, vowed never to wed ... but he is attracted to the lovely Vivien.I am really interested in the next book. Sir Ross Cannon sounds like an intriguing character. 
  “His lips pressed against her forehead and she felt him smile against her skin. "Believe me...the only place in the world I want to be is wherever you are."
This is my first historical romance book by Lisa Kleypas. I found a certain ease about her writing and I have to say I rather enjoyed it. Even though Grant was a bit of a brut sometimes I found him to be charming. And Vivien was sweet and kind. A perfect match for him. It had an interesting plot and I loved the ending!!I'm certainly looking forward to reading more of her historical romance books.
3.5 Stars Not an all time favorite by this author, but that ending...RIGHT IN THE FEELS!!
I wasn't sure I'd like a story about a famous London hooker.
She was a nice little mystery to unveil.
The hero wasn't as charismatic as Kleypas' other men, so maybe that's why the story didn't grab me as much.
Still, a nice HR with a great message...one thing I've noticed about LK is that she is one of the most non-judgemental author out there.
She creates some secondary characters that are not imminently likeable, and yet her heroes and heroines are supremely tolerant of their sins and oddities.
Anyway, H finds h and think she's one person when it turns out (view spoiler)[she's not (hide spoiler)] but he continues to treat her that way wanting to make her pay for some previous slight.
The rest of the book is about discovering (view spoiler)[who she is and who is trying to kill her and why (hide spoiler)].Heroine: Let's just call her V for now.
I am going to assume a lot of people can't get away from the hero's sh!t and I get it.
Be he truly atones for his misguided meanness and I don't think the heroine is going to let Grant backslide.
Estoy rogando a Dios que este sea uno de los primeros libros de la Kleypas pues a mí no me la ha recordado en NADA.Me pareció soso, aburrido y sin el sello característico de la autora.
A los personajes les faltaba alma y la historia deja mucho que desear.El intento de intriga/suspenso fue solo eso...
un intento.No sé, amo a la Kleypas pero sus libros (los que he leído últimamente) me están dejando más bien fría y con grandes sentimientos de decepción.Por cierto...
Quería reclamar en Amazon pero me dicen que ya la editorial está enterada y les vale...
3.5 The twist was everything stars Not one of LK's best,but nevertheless a well written read.
¡Me encantó! ❤️
3.5 starsI liked this book, but the plot needed a deft hand to pull it off.
I feel Lisa Kleypas did a good job on the plot, but I felt that the actual murderer came out of left field.
We could all see the actual murderer from a mile a way.Anyways, I enjoyed it, but felt at some point a bit more remorse on Grant's part would have helped me, and a bit more fire and anger from the heroine would have helped me with her.
I read this book many many years ago and loved it.
It is a wonderfully written book, definitely one of Lisa Kleypas' classics.
Bow Street Runner rescued the virgin sister of a famous courtesan.
The attraction is steamy and the lead characters very likable.What I find a bit unsettling is I never really knew whether the hero liked the heroine or her sister.
The mistaken identity is naturally the big plot in the book.
It did make me wonder, is he attracted to the heroin, really?
Or it is her sister that he lusts after and the poor girl was just a replacement?
Primero de una serie, y sigo con el resto. Me han gustado los 2 protagonistas, romance con suspense, aunque averiguan quien es el malvado en un plis-plas. Y voy a por Ross
Im a fairly new reader of LKs books and Im yet to read a bad one. STWOM is not the best Ive ever read, but its very good.The "big mystery" involving the heroines identity was pretty easy to figure out, but I enjoyed following the hero try to solve it. I loved Grant, a working-class hero who was a welcome "breeze of fresh air" among the usual Lords that dominate historical romances. I loved Victoria too, an adorable "country girl" who was the perfect match for Grant. I truly enjoyed seeing both o
I´m a fairly new reader of LK´s books and I´m yet to read a bad one.
I loved Grant, a working-class hero who was a welcome "breeze of fresh air" among the usual Lords that dominate historical romances.
I loved Victoria too, an adorable "country girl" who was the perfect match for Grant.
:)LK knows how to write characters that you can´t help but love, and Grant and Victoria are just adorable.
- and, as said above, the "mystery" wasn´t difficult to guess.Anyway, I loved this book for the characters and had a wonderful time reading it.
Reviewed for THC ReviewsI first read Lisa Kleypas’ Bow Street Runners series about ten years ago when I’d just been coming off a book drought that had lasted at least that long.
Overall, Vivien (or is she?:-)) was a very well-rounded heroine who I related to quite well.Someone to Watch Over Me also had a couple of very notable secondary characters who go on to become amazing heroes in their own stories, and I got to start falling for them all over again by re-reading this book.
The Runners are great choice.After Grant Morgan takes Vivien to his home to recover, remembering how she spread gossip about him two months ago because he refused her, all he wants is revenge.
He doesn't expect Vivien not to remember who she is nor that she is completely different person from manipulative liar he met before.And that brings me to the bad: the solution for all this is plain lazy.
That doesn't excuse his behaviour towards a woman who had been hurt later on.Vivien doesn't act the way she is supposed to and Grant doesn't know what to do.
That night, her memory comes back and she remembers this fact, making her run to Sir Ross at number 4 Bow Street, the only man besides Grant that she knows she can trust.
There were two things that bothered me the most but I'll get to those later.The characters were interesting; I liked Grant for the most part and I adored Victoria.
Vivien, while unscrupulous, was an interesting character.Now, before I get into the two things that bother me, I just want to say that I thought it was painfully obvious that Keyes was the attempted murderer.
Engaging plot, lush and spicy romance, and well-drawn characters had me listening eagerly each chance I had.Someone to Watch Over Me was an interesting combination of romantic suspense and historical romance bringing together tropes with amnesia, revenge, and few others that I'll keep to myself because of spoilers.
this was the opening of a story that had me wary of just how far Grant would take it with his revenge and wondering what the fall out would be when Vivian learned of his original intent to pay her back in full- and it was not big gamble to know that was coming.
Tres estrellas por la traduccion. Que haya tardado un año en retomarlo por la mala traducción de Zeta Bolsillo (Ediciones B) tiene narices. La historia en general está bien, me ha gustado bastante; con tintes de intriga y un ansia de venganza que poco a poco va cambiando a amor. No obstante, la malísisma traducción me sacaba una y otra vez de la lectura y es algo que no soporto. No le pongo un 1 porque la historia creada por la autora es buena pero los señores de la editorial en España metieron la pata hasta el fondo. ¡Un desastre!
Update! 4.5 unexpectedly pleasant, why have I not read this before starsTo say I was pleasantly surprised would be an understatement! This book was wonderful and sweet! Can't believe it took me this long to read lol. The blurb is misleading. Full review to cometo read or not to readthat is the question.I'm not a fan of romances that start off with deception, and it's in the blurb. Still, it's Kleypas, and I liked the third one in the series. so maybe I'll give it a shot
Me encantó. No puedo decir nada más. ¿Pegas? Ninguna. ¡Es Kleypas!
Este primer libro de la serie me ha enganchado, la parte final ha sido muy emocionante, hace tiempo que no lograba hacerlo este tipo de novelas, por lo menos que yo recuerde ahora.Todos y cada uno de los personajes están muy bien caracterizados; los protagonistas se han robado una parte de mi corazón, Grant Morgan pasa a mi otra lista de protagonistas queridos, porque él es un osito en el cuerpo de un gigante, jajaja, y todas y cada una de sus acciones me gustaron, no lo puedo evitar.
While the story of STWOV was great I felt the characters were less then remarkable.
Grant was a great hero with his strength in justice and his love for books was a total bonus, Sadly, I felt his narrow-mindness toward Vivien’s remarks were below him and dragged down the story at times making you wanna smack him over the head, even when something wasn’t right and staring him right in the face he still kept being mule-headed.
The sensual level is red hot between Grant and Victoria and the tension building between them is something I enjoyed greatly.Overall: a great story but I felt lacked some real character depth at times, luckily the story makes up for it.

"I think the truth is something you recognize with your heart, even when the evidence seems to prove otherwise."
4.5 starsI haven't read a Lisa Kleypas novel in a long, long time (the last book I read was "Love in the Afternoon" and I think I read it in 2009/2010) and I'm definitely not regretting buying and reading "Someone To Watch Over Me", although I initially wanted to read her newest historical "A Cold-hearted Rake".
;)"Someone To Watch Over Me" was a good book, I enjoyed reading this novel and liked the characters, but even so I wouldn't consider "Someone To Watch Over" me one of my favourite historicals.
Although the ending wasn't that bad I was a little disappointed, especially after I read "A Talent for Trickery" by Alissa Johnson, which has a great crime story for a historical romance novel.Another flaw were the characters.
When fate brought them together, can a case of mistaken identity be the path to true love?This is my third Lisa Kleypas book, and once again, it is the start of another series.
Here we meet Grant Morgan, famous Bow Street Runner, as he was called to help rescue a woman, who looks like Vivien Rose, the London beauty that had humiliated him in the past.
However, as he started to get to know more of his beautiful charge, he found himself attracted to her even as he tries to find the killer that wants her dead.Again, another enjoyable read, although not as good as my first two.
Y ese es el resumen de mi primer contacto con Lisa Kleypas.
I did enjoy it, but so far of the earlier books of hers I've read, I don't like them as much as her more recent series.
I guess she has improved as a writer over time.I did like the H, Grant Morgan, a Bow Street Runner and an all round good guy.
The h I didn't like quite as much, and this is also the case with some other early Kleypas books I've read.
This book had a couple of corny tropes that Ms Kleypas seems to have moved on from.
It's one of those lovely 'double covers'.
Гранд Морган намира тяло на удавница в Темза, което се оказва все още живо, но пък дамата е изгубила паметта си (такова клише) и добре, че той я разпознава и решава да се грижи за нея и в следващите 150 страници не се случва абсолютно нищо.
Една малка изненада малко преди края, когато се оказва, че всъщност жената не е тази, която той си мисли че е, но пък вече се е влюбил в нея (клише) и разкрива този, който е искал да я убие и край.
