https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/101862.The_Mutiny_on_the_Bounty_Trilogy
I love sea stories and this one is one of the best.I first read Mutiny on the Bounty when I was in the Navy.
I later was able to obtain all three books of the trilogy, and after re-reading the mutiny, went on to the second volume, Men Against the Sea. After the mutiny, Bligh and several men who were loyal to him were placed in a 23 foot long boat and cast adrift.
This is the story of Fletcher Christian and the mutineers who sail the Bounty back to Tahiti where they drop off the remainder of the men who were against the mutiny.
C. Wyeth's illustrations had several top-less ladies and c) the books didn't seem very happy I knew almost for certain how it would end.
B) While the island ladies don't wear tops all the time (just sunshade cloaks), they aren't loose and are represented as being like women everywhere else, some are doxies and some are respectable.
I'll definitely be reading more by these authors.
I would have given it 3 1/2 but the writing, the characters and the plot were just so good that I couldn't hold the ending against it.
After all, the authors couldn't really change the truth.
Now this is historical fiction the way it should be written!
The high seas and mutiny and south sea islands!
The famous Bounty incident and aftermath is written with such a flair for the real-life characters, it's almost impossible to put down.
The first part of the trilogy focuses upon the mutiny and what led up to it.
The second part shows us the incredible voyage of Captain Bligh and his little rowboat of loyalists after they were cruelly abandoned at sea.
Classic.Book Season = Summer (when the salty sea is in your face)
The characterization was excellent, and almost every feature of the story itself was so original, so unique and complex, yet so well tied together that it is hard to confine the book to four stars.
I would not give five stars to a mere story, and that is what this book is (though one of the very best that I have read).All adventure stories nowadays tend to be archetypical and cheap copies of long-overused plots and characters.
My review will not give this book justice, though hopefully it has convinced you to read it.
Otherwise the film sticks pretty closely to the book.I read Men Against the Sea during a particularly insomniac night; it's the shortest of the three books, told in the voice of the (historical) surgeon's mate of the Bounty, Thomas Ledward, explaining the epic 41-day, 6,500 km journey taken by Bligh and 18 others in an 7-metre long open boat from the site of the mutiny (near Tofua, one of the Tonga islands) to Kupang at the western end of Timor, avoiding the potentially hostile shores of Australia and other islands - one man was killed at the very beginning, on Tofua.
I'm giving the third book (Pitcairn's Island) only two-stars. They could have skipped the entire book and used Smith's/Adam's first person recap at the end as short-story and it would have been better. But I'll still give the trilogy 3-stars on the merits of Mutiny alone.If you've never read an "adrift-at-sea" story, by all means give Men Against the Sea a shot. Otherwise, read Mutiny On the Bounty and forget about the other two, in my opinion. While factually questionable (which holds very little relevance to me personally), Mutiny is by far the more entertaining and engaging of the three.
Very exciting and well written book.
An amazing story. Must read!
My first exposure to the genre of nautical historical fiction. Simply magnificent, all three volumes of the trilogy. Look in used bookstores for an edition with the N.C. Wyeth illustrations.
A fairly easy read, and fairly interesting.The plot: The novel is told from the point of view of a young midshipman who did not take part in the mutiny but was forced to cooperate.
Now on to the second part of the trilogy.Men Against the Sea - this part is told from the point of view of one of the ship's doctors who was put off the boat with Captain Bligh.
Shortly after daybreak one morning during the return voyage from Tahiti the narrator of book one, Roger Byam, is awakened to the realization that Lieutenant Bligh has been taken prisoner by the hand of Mr. Christian.
The remaining two books tell the story of Lieutenant Bligh and the company of the Bounty's launch in "Men Against the Sea", and the mutineers with Fletcher Christian in the final book, "Pitcairn's Island".The Mutiny on the Bounty trilogy is a deeply engrossing adventure story.
Based on archival information about actual events, these three books work together to tell the tale of an infamous mutiny and everything that followed.
It reveals what happened to Captain Bligh when he was put to sea with a number of his faithful.
It is a moral tale of a failed and resurrected utopia; a utopia that may again be lost after the first ship lands on the Pitcairn's Island.The three books together provide a more complicated tale as more information develops.
In the first volume, Captain Bligh is a tyrant who just might deserve the mutiny.
Even though you know he survives to tell the tale, there is much suspense.Men Against the Sea tells of the sea voyage in an open launch that brought Captain Bligh and men loyal to him across 3600 miles of ocean to safety and civilization again.Pitcairn's Island was the least familiar to me, and it tells of what happens to those who left Tahiti on the Bounty, and settled on Pitcairn's island.
All the human faults and failings that made the sailors participants in a mutiny come to bear in this new setting.Pitcairn's Island, written in third person, leaves one wondering who will survive, and who will not, to see the arrival of the next ship, twenty years later.
Accounts of each of the phases of the historic mutiny on the British ship Bounty in 1787.
The first part of the trilogy is an account of the actual circumstances of the mutiny against Cap't William Bligh led by Fletcher Christian.
The second account, Men Against the Sea relates the journey of the 19 men set off the Bounty in the small boat.
In each case the authors do an excellent job of describing the character of the leaders and sailors and their responses to the circumstances.
The HMS Bounty sails for breadfruit plants in "The Bounty Trilogy" by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall.
Imagery is a powerful literary element efficiently used in this novel.
Then, the sun, still below the horizon, began to tint the little clouds in the east with every shade of mother-of-pearl," describes page 53 of "The Bounty Trilogy" by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall.
Imagery contributes to mood, helping the authors convey passing events.
"The Bounty Trilogy" by Charles Nordhoff and James Norman Hall is one of the greatest books I have read.
I just finished the first of the stories, "Mutiny on the Bounty," and enjoyed it.
I can't say that the South Pacific islands hold any charm for me, but the tale of the famous mutiny, told from the perspective of a fictional midshipman, was fascinating.
After I take a break, I'll go back and read the following tales, "Men Against the Sea" and "Pitcairn Island."EDIT December 8, 2011: And I have at last gotten around to reading "Men Against the Sea." I didn't enjoy it quite as much as "Mutiny on the Bounty," primarily because there wasn't enough time to get to know the narrator.
Great book series.
The Bounty was really good from how they dealt with the voyage to Tahiti and the mutiny, you are meant to be sympathetic to the mutineers but in a way I still sided with Bligh because of the men being irresponsible in their duty.
Men Against the Sea was terrific in which the courage of the loyal Bounty crewman faced terrible dangers on their voyage home with their loyalty being rewarded in kind.
I am American but I could definitely be proud of these great seamen of the British Empire.
Mutiny on the Bounty: B+ Men Against the Sea:A- Pitcairn's Island: B
These three books are amazing if you are interested in things having to do with maritime history.
The first book, The Mutiny on the Bounty, takes you from England to Tahiti and halfway back before some of the crew turn on Captain Bligh (he had it coming).
The second book, Men Against the Sea, is how Captain Bligh amazingly got himself and his faithful men from the middle of the ocean to a Dutch colony.
The third book, Pitcairns Island, is about the mutineers and how they settled.
The final book is my favorite of the three, but I strongly recommend reading them in order.
Mutiny on the Bounty is one of the most satisfying novels I've read in a long time. I read it while camping on the west coast near Ucluelet. Reading by flashlight with the surf thundering onto the beach nearby and moonlight filtering through the cedar trees...perfect setting. Based on the real events of the late 18th century Bounty mutiny, it's completely convincing. The characterization is masterful and each character's weaknesses help to build the suspense to fever pitch. I'm now waiting for my husband to finish it so I can read the rest of the trilogy.
This wonderful book helped me pass a hot and humid summer spent in the fields and woods of Southern Ohio.
I was just a boy back then, lost in the seventies like everybody else.
Daydreams of Tahiti and the South Pacific were the perfect counter-balance to briar choked woods and lazy streams.
We had a dogwood tree in my Grandfather's largest field.
I read many books under it's sparse shade.
I was a Huck Finn who wanted to be a Tom Sawyer.
Anyway, read the trilogy if you get the chance.
The second book, Men Against the Sea, was my favorite...
Though I'm not usually much interested in seafaring stories, many years ago I read and enjoyed this account of the mutiny aboard the Bounty. I still vividly remember the account of the suffering and survival of Captain Bligh and those who were with him on a small boat for forty some days after the mutiny. And I found equally thrilling, and occasionally thought-provoking, the account of Fletcher Christian and his leadership and moral struggles. Quite a good read!
A fictionalized account based on fact with titles Mutiny on the Bounty, Men Against the Sea (where captain and loyal crew sail their set adrift lifeboat in hopes of survival) and Pitcairn Island (the final resting spot for the mutineers.) The saga is a non-stop adventure that addresses arrogance, liberty of a sort, lust, courage, misjudgment and justice…in the case of the mutineers complicated by the addition of alcohol and women. What more could you want?
Had this on my shelf for years from my Grinnell College days. co-author Hall is/was an alumnus from down the road, who in his research on this classic ended up - preceding Marlon Brando - as a permanent resident of Tahiti.This should be read in conjunction with Tony Horwitz' "Blue Latitudes".A Fletcher Christian descendant just died. Here is his obituary: http://www.nytimes.com/2013/08/24/wor...
The Mutiny on the Bounty is truly one of my favorite books of all time. You've seen the films, you think you know the story, but the book goes so far beyond that. The part about Bligh's navigating them to Timor in that little boat is more than remarkable. The part about the mutineers on Pitcairn is fascinating, and not hard to see how things went so horribly awry there. I don't know why I love sea stories but I do and this is the best.
A book I read when I was 12 or 13 and that really helped to get me reading. A bit of everything for a young person: a bit of Rousseauian paradise and free love; the need for rebellion; the need for leadership and stoicism; and the tragic fates that sometimes meet our best hopes and intentions.[return][return]A bit of a boy's book, though. No doubt.
Fantastic re-read of this classic. I enjoyed the Mutiny the best, Pitcairn the least but all are fascinating and capture well the sense of adventure, of exotic life and the mistakes of character that lead to such misery in the lives of people. a very special series - especially fun to read as I trekked along the Kunene River
One of my favorite books of all time. I read this as a child and I still enjoy reading it every so often. If you decide to read Mutiny on the Bounty, go for the trilogy, as it depicts the mutiny from all angles. A great book for children, who can learn all about the cruelties of the world and be schooled for life. Also learning about tenesmus will keep the little ones in line.
I read this as individual books. Pitcairn's Island was my favorite. Nordoff and Hall did a lot of research and added their special writing skills. They were masters of story telling. For years I wanted to travel to Pitcairn Island but it wasn't to be. From what I have read, it is possible to take special tours to this historical place.
What a book!! Grandpa gave this to Dad one Christmas in the late 60's. Dad had sailed through there in the war. I dont really know if he ever read it, But I sure did. What a book.Captain Bligh has been recognised as a great sailor in bringing his cast aside crew home. Acknowledged as the greatest sailing event in an open hull boat ever. I think it still holds the Guiness World Record.
The first book was really good. It was written as a narration of the mutiny and the resulting trial in England. The second one covered the story of how Bligh managed to survive with his loyal crew on the life boat. The third book covered what happened to the mutineers. The second and third book went downhill in quality from the first.
