https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/65217.The_Five_Chinese_Brothers
This book is a disgusting example of Orientalism in action in the educational system of the United States during the 20th Century. The cover alone should warn you of the prejudicial and stereotyped contents.I love this book dearly.
I remember reading it time and time again and was actually surprised when I saw so many complaints about it.The first complaint is about racism, specifically the charge that the book is suggesting all Chinese people look the same.
Despite the fact that a death does occur in this story and there's multiple representations of attempted executions, I turned out better than fine (as did my uncle, who read it before me).
For my part, I didn't have any questions about death or ethics when I read it as a kid.
When an eight year-old kid in my classroom pulled his eyes into a slant and sang, "I'm a ching-chong-Chineseman!" while his Vietnamese classmate sitting two seats away from him turned red, I know he didn't come up with that stereotype on his own.I don't think the book should be banned, but I don't think it should be read unsurpervised either.
People like my father are very sentimental about the book since they have fond childhood memories of reading it - just as many progressive people have fond memories of Little Black Sambo and Topsy.
This was my favorite book in kindergarten. It may even be the book responsible for motivating me to become a reader. I loved the story and I love reading it to my kids now.
3.0 stars. I remember reading this as a kid and liking it because it was unlike most of the other stories I was reading. A fun little Children's book.
According to my mom, when I was very young, I used to come into the bathroom every single night while she was trying to take a bath and tell her the story of The Five Chinese Brothers.
I might have squealed a little.So I brought it home and read it and I still do not remember this book at all.
I didn't find it racist, although I suppose if someone wanted to make something out of, "once upon a time there were Five Chinese Brothers and they all looked exactly alike," one could, but I don't, so let's not.
Every team is a group...but every group is not a team - the five Chinese brothers work as a team and accomplish more than a group could. Great book for a child just starting to participate in team sports.
It tells the story of five identical brothers, each of whom has a specific and unusual ability.
These abilities are all put to the test when one of the brothers is sentenced to death for the accidental drowning of a small boy who died because he failed to keep a promise he made.
Each of the brothers survives a different form of execution and are eventually pardoned.
Similarly, the story has been criticised for being macabre - the forms of execution include beheading, suffocation, drowning and being burned alive!
The illustrations have a cartoon like quality to them and a simplicity that reinforces the moral of the story.
(In the Phils) Remember when Nido powdered milk gave away stuff when you purchase the huge can?
There was a time when the freebies were collection of short stories in little pamphlets.
Literally begged my mom to keep buying milk to get my little hands on 'em (even if I'm lactose intolerant - stomach discomforts for the price of imagination).
This story is one of my beloved fairy tales.It starts like this.
This statement blew my little mind!
I can still remember how I felt at that time when I read this.Books that withstand the test of time, retain that indescribable giddy sensation you felt when you immersed into its world are those that unquestionably deserves to be rated 5 stars.
The people who complain about the "intense violence" must be either very naive and easily influenced by a children's book or just plain stupid.
Violence should not be the highlight of the story.
Stories are not about face value.
You should learn something from the book as it is useful as a tool.
Even saying that 5 Chinese people look the same is not racist.
The only way it can be construed as racist if by bringing ones own prejudices to the book.
Then you become the racist, not the illustrator.
Great book.
I will definitely read it to my children.
The freakiest illustration was the brother who swallowed the ocean. And why didn't he just breathe through his nostrils instead of killing the little boy? In the same league of cruel Oriental childrens stories as the, ah, filmstrip Rikki Tikki Tembo No Sarembo Chari Bari Ruchi Pip Berry Pembo.Speaking of which, back when SNL was good (the Charles Rocket years) there was a oneshot character named Filmstrip Man who spoke in that...that style. Beep.Kah-lick.
I read this book in Colliers Junior Classics when I was child. Today such a book would probably be considered politically incorrect for the postmodern classroom. I enjoyed it when I read it in my childhood and thought it had great adventure and humor. However, I don't know what my impressions would be of it today. I wonder how Chinese people would perceive it. That would be more my concern.
Absolutely one of my favorite books as a kid. I took it out from the library over and over again. When I was a teenager and my brother was 4 or 5, I started taking it out again to read to him. An entertaining story of 5 brothers and their special abilities, and how they used them to help each other.
I don't know how many times I read this as a kid. I think I might have checked it out of the library every single week for a while. I had such fond memories of it that I finally just bought my own copy and was delighted to discover I still love the story as much as I did back then.
In Afrikaans gelees as "Die Vyf Chinese Broers" vertaal uit Engels deur Lydia Pienaar.Baie oulike storie. Ek het die illustrasies ook vreeslik geniet.
It's a book that my husband read as a child, and so I thought I'd give it a try on the kids.
Hijinks ensue, and basically children are treated to a story in which the five Chinese Brothers thwart four grusome attempts to carry out the death sentence.
My niece especially thought this book was great--she kind of liked the shock value, and she liked trying to figure out how the brothers were going to get around this punishment.
My nepehw was drawn in to the story and he certainly listened, but when we finished reading it he was, "still trying to decide" if he liked the story or not.
It is absolutely no secret I am pretty obsessed with China, I just got back from Beijing and I can't help but want to read anything set in China.
The story is fantastic and I do think it is a great book kids should read though as it teaches about Team work and the importance of listening to people so you don't get killed seriously.
I enjoyed this very quick children's book and I think it is certainly worth reading as it does teach a lot of basic lessons I do think some kids are lacking.
If I am not mistaken, I remember first seeing this book on the Captain Kangaroo show. His show was great for advocating reading to children. While dated (and some claim stereotypical), it is still a good story about overcoming overwhelming odds through trickery and deceit. But the first brother wasn't really guilty of the crime he was to be executed for anyway.
The Five Chinese Brothers, is a trickster tale where one brother gets in some trouble and the rest of them use their special abilities to help him get out of it. A good book for problem-solving lessons. I used this one to go along with math trail blazers unit on graphing.
One of the best read-aloud stories for primary students, despite its racist reputation. a great lead-in to discussions about responsibility and justice. May also be used with middle schoolers to discuss prejudice and racism in literature, as well as banned books.
I love this book, I don't care what anyone says about it.
What a cute story for children! It has drama, action, and a witty plot. I asked my daughter what the moral of this story is. Keep your promises! At the heart of the problem was a boy who lied and did not obey. He causes all kinds of problems for others. Written in 1936, this children's book deserves an admired place in history.
What a charming children's tale. I loved reading this. I think I have some vague recollection of reading a story of this sort (maybe even the very same) when I was much younger and it was definitely one of my favorites.
The actual story begins with the first Chinese brother going out to fish, he brings with him a young boy from town who has begged repeatedly to go out with him.
Before the fishing begins the first Chinese brother reminds the boy that he must obey his hand signals and return to shore when he calls him back.
He sees but chooses to ignore the Chinese brother frantically calling him back to the safety of the shore until the ocean waters burst from his mouth and the little boy disappears.
Basing on a well-known Chinese folktale, the story talks about five Chinese brothers who look exactly alike and each of them has a special and different ability.
Unfortunately, the first brother is sentenced to death due to an accident in which a young boy is drowned in the sea for failing to keep a promise.
And since the story is based on Chinese folktale and is illustrated with Chinese-style images, it can be seen as an example of multicultural literature.
The biggest problem of this book, however, is that it somehow caters to the outsiders’ oriental expectation of China, making the images somehow stereotypical.
I suppose Lesson #1 is to stick together and work as a team to achieve results though it is a little sad because the little boy did drown after all, but Lesson #2 could be that the little boy should have listened..which brings Lesson #3 of modesty as First Brother could have restrained from showing off his secret talent knowing that it was exceptional and could inspire fateful curiosity and jealousies.
One concern with this story is that it discusses capital punishment.
This is bound to raise concerns with some parents.Classroom use:I would incorporate this book into a folklore unit.
It would be interesting to do a unit on folklore from around the world, asking students to pick a country and read one of their ancient stories.Genre: FolkloreFormat: Picture BookReading level: Grades 3-4Theme: Trickery, ObedienceTopic: Five brothers with special talentsGender, race/ethnicity, socioeconomic status: Because this book originates in Chinese folklore, the characters in the book are all Asian.
However, this book does not reflect on the associated culture or socioeconomic status.
This book is about five Chinese brothers who all have a different ability.
I like how this connects to people in real life because everyone is unique in their own ways, although, the abilities of the five Chinese brothers aren't realistic.
Although the cover isn't very colorful I think the illustration is intriguing because it is five boys that look identical.
Although the illustrations aren't very intricate, I like them because they balance out nicely with the text.
I think this book would be good for kindergarten aged students.
Oh I am so glad I found this book again!
I would often tell my friends about this story, remembering it from when I was a child, and thinking it was such a fun and great story.
I am very happy to say that, now at age 21, I still think it a fun story!
It saddens me that this book is under attack for its lack of "political correctness" or its "offensiveness." As a child, and now, that wasn't what the story was.
I never thought about the racial issues or the depictions of the people in the drawings.
AppleBlossom read this one aloud to me from the 1988 Childcraft book. We noted the 1984 Childcraft had different illustrations. I remember this story from my own childhood. Not incredible, but interesting. Makes me want to go read The Story about Post Ping and another fable... something about a fisherman's wife... ---Excerpts and/or reprints included in Stories And Fables.
