https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18774964-a-man-called-ove
We fear it, yet most of us fear more than anything that it may take someone other than ourselves."― Fredrik Backman, A Man Called Ove"For the greatest fear of death is always that it will pass us by.
A man who spent his life contemplating.
All the color he had.” ― Fredrik Backman, A Man Called OveLife has got to the point where Ove's had enough.
He wants out of this world.A Man Called Ove essentially calls out the dangers of living in a society that focuses more on thought than action, and highlights the risk of imprisoning oneself in grief.
It's always hard to lose someone who has been such a huge part of your life from day one, but please know that he died a happy old man, peacefully, surrounded by his family.
Except, in truth, that's only half of it.The other day I opened the mailbox to find an envelope which contained this picture of me and him from my graduation:And with it came this note:Thing is, behind whatever my grandad may seem on the outside, he is a loving man who lost his wife - my grandmother - several years ago.
First let me explain what happened to me while reading this book aloud to my wife as she was preparing dinner.
I read, we laughed and nodded knowingly, then I got to the end of chapter 4 and completely lost it---I couldn't continue through those last few sentences.
Now how many books have you read that can cause that kind of a physical and emotional response?!
It seems pretty simple at first but there is more depth to this book than any I've read in forever.
As I got near the end, I thought that there really should be a sequel, then the plot changed-----definitely no sequel.
This novel, set in Sweden, tells the story of Ove, who can best be described as a curmudgeon. The story takes place after the death of his wife, and shows how healing can occur with the unlikeliest of people, in the unlikeliest of ways.
The cat and the fat were the straws that broke the camel’s back.Let’s start with Ove not liking the cat.
And it’s highly unlikely that the cat would follow its new person into a store, full of strange people, sounds, smells, and objects; it’s just ludicrous.
The writer should have made the animal a dog instead of a cat, or should have talked to a cat person before writing the book.The next huge bitch I have is the way the author talks about the big guy, Jimmy.
Those who aren’t bothered by cat and fat insensitivities might find Ove to be interesting and funny, and the book entertaining.
This is a tale that makes you appreciate life!I vote *OVE* as 'character-of-the-year'! The author has created the most memorable character to be found in a novel --in years. *OVE*, is an unassuming man. He likes routines, and rules. He's an honest man. Doesn't smile and give compliments -- but he's a man of integrity. To watch OVE grow - heal the loss of his wife -and allow his neighbors to love him (and love them back) -- is is a treasure. This book has great humor & great heart!Its a personal gift for 'all' readers! DON'T MISS THIS GEM!
This was such a nice story! It's about the transformations we go through in life and how different events within our life affect, shape us, and make us who we are today.
I have lost people in my life, but not in the way that Ove has in this book.
His father taught Ove how to be a man in so many ways.
He became a family with everyone in the neighborhood all because of that little family who lived across the street.Some things to remember when you are reading this book:1.) Buses2.) Pink Flowers3.) Saab's4.) Rules - Ove was NOT a rule breaker5.) Love6.) Hands - an odd one, but true!7.) White ShirtsThis is the end of my review.
More often than not people were out of their minds." "Ove wasn't one to engage in small talk." page 37 narration"He was a man of black and white." "And she was color.
I'm bringing in the children now to say hello to him,"she explains to the guards.""That's fine." One of the security guards nods." "But this one stays here," Confirms the other security guard and points at Ove." page 131 narration "Ove had never been asked how he lived before he met her(his wife).

I bought this book expecting some easy entertainment, you know, a few giggles here and there.
I did not expect to spend almost half an hour crying my eyes out after finishing it - and yet, that's exactly what I did.
He wants things to be "right" and doesn't think twice about the fact that he isn't always perceived as fair - and that always keeping to the truth can actually make people stay away from you.
This book is a journey.
It is a magnificent tale about true love, Saab and the fact that what you see isn't always what you get.
He is a man that has been left behind in many ways, unwilling to adapt and unable to understand the thought process that drives "modern man" in this technological era.When his new neighbor's failed attempts to back a trailer up draws his attention, it is only the first of many humorous interactions to come.
Despite his unpleasant disposition and perpetual crankiness, Ove seems to constantly be coming to the rescue of his newest neighbors.
Little by little, we are provided glimpses of Ove's past, experiencing the love he has for his deceased wife and the events that shaped him into the man he became.
But, how he got this way, combined with the relationships he "accidentally" develops lead to a lot of unexpected twists and turns.One of the things I loved about this book is that seemingly serious situations end up hilarious, while scenes that seem to be completely for comic relief can really pull on your heart strings.
I went from laughter to tears on the turn of a dime while I listened to this book.Also, If you like interesting characters, this is the book for you.
Every character is fascinating in their own right.
Can't say for sure, but I think most people will enjoy those book.
When I began reading A Man Called Ove, I thought what a clever tale of an angry old man.
The way the author describes him and his actions are hilarious, as I have known a few Oves myself.
She has just passed away, and all Ove wants to do is kill himself, but those pesky neighbors keep getting in his way!I was enjoying all the fun until about the 40% mark, then I started getting angry myself.
It is always others who make Ove begrudgingly do the right thing.
The second is a neighbor called Jimmy.
I laughed. I cried. If you want a contemporary that will warm you up inside this is the one you should read.It also gave me some strong vibes of the movie Gran Torino!4 or 5 stars I'm not sure yet!
Why This Book  I run a monthly poll on the ThisIsMyTruthNow blog via my Book Bucket List. Followers get to choose from a list of the twelve books I own and want to read in the near future. A Man Called Ove by Fredrik Backman was selected as the book I should read in March 2018. I added it to the list because I really enjoyed his novel, Beartown, and thought this was the next logical step. A good friend of mine was interested in reading the novel, too, so we made this a buddy read. I'm so excit
A Man Called Ove by Fredrik Backman was selected as the book I should read in March 2018.
Ove is a 59-year old man who is cantankerous, ornery, difficult, mean and everything else that comes along with the type of men you'd see in the movie "Grumpy Old Men." It opens with a bit about an iPad that is basically someone we all know (or are -- I see my own future in a good 20+ years).
I am so thrilled with my second Fredrik Backman book that I plan to read all of his remaining works this summer.

I've always had a thing for grumpy old men. Not in a pervy way you nut job! I've always favored them in real life because probably I'm one of those people who tolerate little bullshit and they fit that for me.Plus most of them really don't like people.  Ove is my kind of people. He comes across as a pretty big curmudgeon. All he wants to do is commit suicide. People won't leave him alone long enough to do it. He misses his outgoing wife and doesn't think he has much to live for. Then the neighbo
I've always had a thing for grumpy old men.
People won't leave him alone long enough to do it.
The lanky dad backs over Ove's garden because the idiot can't back a trailer, Mom is pregnant and bossy, and two kids.They won't leave Ove alone.
They even saddle him with an aggravation cat.I can't seem to figure out how to do the best words when I really love a book.
Be sure and duck after that though because that lightning bolt might hit you in the ass.Go read this book and love it.
It'll make your old Grinch heart grow.(If I can handle it, you guys can.)
Ove appears, in the beginning, as though he is a cranky old man, maybe a little anal, but there is also a loneliness surrounding him, and a sense of despair.
I did that with Ove in the beginning, but by the end of the book, my opinion of him and respect for him had grown immeasurably.
But if anyone had asked him, he would have answered that he didn’t.”Although Ove is dragged out of his shell kicking and screaming, he finally begins to live again, in the most eccentric, but enchanting way!
This book lived up to any and all of my expectations and then some!!
2.5 starsI've read all my GR friends' wildly divergent reviews of Fredrik Backman's debut novel  A Man Called Ove and can find something to agree with in each of them.
Nods to those who enjoyed the comedy of errors.
Nods to the ailurophiles who despised Ove's treatment of the cat.
Nods to those who couldn't get enough of Ove's archetypal curmudgeonly character.
Nods to those who found Ove's transformation from hating the world to being a reluctant hero an unlikely and transparently feel-good-y affair.My assessment: cute but repetitive, not nearly as funny as it needs to be, rendered trite by its obvious similarity to other, better comedic works, slathered with life-lesson goop, and adorned with a way-too-predictable wreath of lingonberries and happy happy joy joy.Or maybe I'm just as curmudgeonly as Ove, so never mind me.
DON'T READ REVIEW IF YOU DON'T WANT TO SEE SPOILERS.I am an utterly blubbering fool right now.
I loved this book and I adored Ove and all the other characters.
The end took me by surprise and I really wasn't expecting Ove to die at the end and it was so sad.
This was such an amazing book!
I loved this book so much.
I wish I could give it 10 stars and I hope that one day Hollywood could recreate this into a movie that emulates how special Ove really was.
You won't be sorry you read this, you'll laugh and cry and it is so worth it!
One of the best books I've read. Many emotions here. We'll written. *((Wow!))* I could read it all over again!
Click here to watch a video review of this book on my channel, From Beginning to Bookend. Ove is a surly man who keeps to himself. He cares about rules, routine, and being left alone to go about his business. His quiet life is upended by chatty new neighbors who flatten his mailbox, drive over his flowerbed, and insert themselves into his house and his life with careless disregard for his needs. Though Ove prefers to be free of their nuisance interruptions, they’re the first of many whose lives
Ove is a pragmatic man who “checks the status of all things,” who believes in principles, who understands things he can “see and touch,” who has no friends and doesn’t need them, who likes mathematics, and who shoves his hands in his pockets “in that particular way of a middle-aged man who expects the worthless world outside to disappoint him.
Then he looks at the cat, sitting humiliated and bleeding but with its head defiantly raised, outside his house.
“It’s probably full of disgusting diseases and rabies and all sorts of things!” Ove looks at the cat.
The book is less than 350 pages long and it reads like a page turner.Ove is a militaristic sort of guy.
The author, Fredrik Backman's treatment of Ove's arc is brilliant.
Ove, like most memorable characters, has an arc, where he changes (for the better?)I was transported into the book while reading it.
I also am fearful since I almost missed reading A Man Called Ove. This story is like a coming of age tale, except that the old guy is 59 years old.
Very good authors are springing like daffodils from nowhere these days.
Am I living in a golden age for books?
I'm probably going to be crying about this book forever.There are so many things to love in this book. It's a story about an old crotchety man unwillingly being thrust into friendships that change his life, as well as a bit about his past too. There's really nothing I didn't love about this book. It had me laughing one minute and tearing up the next, and by the end I was bawling.I also listened to the audiobook which was SO GOOOOD.
And then I was no longer pissed off at Backman or Ove. I rather got a little sentimental even, by the end of it.Ove is a grumpy old man (he's only 59 but you would think he was ancient).
Except his mission is interrupted -several times- by others in need.
This debut novel was a sentimental starter with Britt-Marie Was Here as a sputter; And Every Morning the Way Home Gets Longer and Longer, Backman gets better and better with Beartown being by far, his bestest.Ove, you got a small piece of me by the end, but I, like you, can be pigheaded and am only giving you a 3.5⭐️
A man named Ove knocked on my door and asked if I have space on my shelves for a stray book about an angry, bitter, contrarian, (view spoiler)[ suicidal (hide spoiler)] old man. I hesitated for a second, thinking I don't need to get more depressed than I already am, but then I took another look at his wooden clogs, his out-of-fashion clothes and frowning brow, and decided: "What the heck! I'll give it a try! I'll read a couple of chapters and see how I feel about it." Ove is fifty-nine.He drives
A man named Ove knocked on my door and asked if I have space on my shelves for a stray book about an angry, bitter, contrarian, (view spoiler)[ suicidal  (hide spoiler)] old man.
So I say: Ove has no reason at all to smile and be accomodating  (hide spoiler)]The novel alternates between the present day clashes a man called Ove has with his pesky neighbors and flashbacks of his past experiences, first as a lonely young man with a talent for manual labor (A job well done is a reward in its own right, as his father used to say.), and later as the surprised husband of a lively young woman.
This might be a funny/sweet novel about a curmudgeonly old man, who knows that any thinking person would do things properly but unfortunately the world is full of idiots who do everything incorrectly and need someone like Ove to keep things in line. I'm not really sure. Instead, it was a novel filled with with sucker punches right to my gut. I might be giving four stars to the Swedish equivalent of Mitch Albom, but fuck it.
I'm kicking myself for not picking this book up sooner.I absolutely adored this book, and the only reason I've docked a star is because the writing style got on my nerves a bit (way too many similes, to the point of it being distracting), but everything else was AMAZING.
I thought I would dislike reading about a grumpy old man, but I didn't!
Ove was hilarious, sympathetic, and I never wanted to put the book down because I wanted to know how his story would play out.
All in all, this is a great happy-sad book, and I highly recommend it!
We see the loving relationship Ove had with his father , especially after his mother dies.
Now he is a very sad, lonely man and what he intends to do will break your heart.Enter into the story the quirky neighbors, the stray injured cat, the best friend that Ove no longer speaks to, and you can't help but laugh even though there is Ove's sadness.
Ove continues to show kindness to the people around him in spite of what appears to be a mean temperament and these people come to love him and you suspect he cares about them, too.It's predictable and sometimes a bit melodramatic but it will make you laugh and cry and you'll be glad that you met Ove.Thanks to NetGalley and Atria Books
