https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15712423-her-first-ball
The enjoyment I had reading this was when a old, fat man who had attended balls for 30 years already (likely a teacher) took Leila for a dance, correctly guessed that it was her first ball, then engaged her in a conversation where he told her that not too long after that magical night:"you'll be sitting up there on the stage, looking on, in your nice black black velvet.
...And you'll smile away like the poor old dears up there, and point to your daughter, and tell the elderly lady next to you how some dreadful man tried to kiss her at the club ball.
Mansfield's prose in "Her First Ball" dances and sparkles, all the while investigating every feeling of her subject without missing a beat and without an imperfect note.
A short, sweet tale about a girl called Leila's first ball. Mansfield accurately captures the fluttering of a young girl's heart.
If you have never read anything by her before, this is one of a new series of single stories by her, which offer a great taster of her style and work.
The story revolves around eighteen year old Leila, the ‘little country cousin,’ who attends her first ever ball with a feeling of great expectation and excitement.
Leila is an only child, whose nearest neighbours live fifteen miles away, so she is thrilled to be with her confident cousins, amidst the chaos, crush and noise.
However, despite her thrill at attending, she finds others bored by what she finds so exciting...
A curious little story about, well, a girl's first ball. As a result of living deep in the country, Leila has never been to a ball. Expectedly, she is tremendously excited about attending one at last, although she tries very hard to be nonchalant. The climax of the story was a little too sudden and short, and I would have liked to read more about Leila's thoughts at that moment. The last paragraph, however, was a treat, revealing several things about the society of that time.A well-written, if a tad too-hurriedly executed story!
very cute story, i enjoied it and loved leila's character
Great account of a young girl attending her first ball. I used this short story in a unit on Coming of Age in a film & literature class.
A little gem of a story: A country girl attends her first ball as she accompanies her townie cousins. There themes explored here are simple; wide-eyed innocence and excitement regarding a new experience juxtaposed against staleness and cynicism. It’s about as simple as one can get. But the artful way in which it is told is an example of the short story at its best.
A simple story comes to life through great imagery.
