https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221406.Edmund_Campion
One of the finest, most inspiring biographies I have ever read. It is a tale of faith and hope in the face of ferocious injustices and intensely bloody persecutions - truly the darkest days of Engish history. Evelyn Waugh's graceful prose and command of history and the spirit of this great saint makes this book hard to put down. Second time I've read it and it has only gotten finer with age
Chastening. Beautifully written.
I love the writing of Evelyn Waugh…his prose are some of the best of our time, if not of all time. And when that talent is used to pen a biography of the heroic English martyr, Edmund Campion, a tremendous blessing has been given to all who gleen it’s pages. What a story…what a life.
Considering my non-existent interest in the history of Catholicism in England, this book was still relatively interesting.
This was an excellent biography of an extraordinary man. As with all the lives of the saints, I found so much that was relevant and inspiring even now, centuries later. Having just read Helena and The Loved One, though, I did miss the personality and story telling that is so wonderful in Waugh's fictional works.
Waugh had already made, or very nearly made, the transition from young bad boy satirist to mature novelist with "A Handful of Dust" but this fine little book presages his later work. A beautiful piece of writing.
Despite centuries of propaganda claiming that the Elizabethan State did not make 'windows into men's souls', the authorities were not solely concerned with perceived traitors who sought to harm Elizabeth, but were dedicated to purging England of the Old Faith and those who practiced it.
If it was not history it would make an excellent story on the struggle of good resisting evil and, for this reason, the gifted author Evelyn Waugh was the perfect person to write this narrative.Waugh divides the life of Campion into four sections: Scholar, Priest, Hero and Martyr.
Campion was an English scholar who seemed destined for greatness but who realized his sympathies were with the Catholic church.
He went to Douai in France was received into the Catholic church.
He eventually went to Rome, joined the Jesuit order and was assigned to a mission to return to England to preach to Catholics still in England.
Campion expected all along the this mission would be a death sentence, but he seems to have only worried that he didn't have the courage to do it.Waugh does a very good job of explaining that Campion at no time was part of a plot to bring down the English government and murder Queen Elizabeth.
This is a fascinating book that accomplishes different things.
Firstly, it portrays the life and sacrifices made by Edmund Campion, from renouncing to success in England to his very martyrdom, and his selflessness in trying to help others while abiding by a separation between Church and State.
The description of his condemnation in a mock trial devoid of minimum guarantees and due process shows how, in spite of the Queen's proclamation that faith had nothing to do with the sentencing, reflect how conviction was preordained regardless of actual guilt or treason.
On the other hand, the book clearly describes how religious toleration in the Elizabethan era was actually not so, and the drastic changes experienced in England over a short period.
Not Waugh's finest book, it shows that even when not at his best, Waugh is among the best. This biography reads fluidly and clearly, almost like a novel. The book handles its topic sensitively with an eye both to historical fact and the sensibilities of its characters and of modern readers.
This is an exciting tale of a life lived, and willingly sacrificed, for belief and ideals.Edmund Campion was not a sure thing as a saint, because he did not follow an easy and assured route.
He lived in an age in which it was dangerous to believe, and more especially to voice your belief, in anything other than the preferences of the ruling authorities.A commitment to truth can give one courage and purpose.
In Campion's time they were at least more honest in that tolerance was not preached.Evelyn Waugh is an excellent author who wrote many good novels, but few can compare with the truth of a life lived in service to Truth.
When I first read this book in the early 90's I was still a Protestant struggling with the questions of conversion.
I've often wondered why Waugh didn't write more like it; a life of More or Fisher from his pen, or even of an ambiguous and frustrated figure like Gardiner, would have been a great treasure.
The Campion book was not Waugh's idea in the first place.
One of D'Arcy's fellow Jesuits had done a great deal of research for a new biography of Campion but had died before he could actually write it.
Evelyn Waugh's book, Brideshead Revisited, was about an English Catholic family, and I was quite intrigued when I read it, because I had never really given much thought to what had happened to the families who wanted to keep their faith during the reign of Queen Elizabeth.
He takes on the biography of Blessed Edmund Campion, who started out as the darling of the Court--a learned philosopher, orator and clergyman in the Anglican church.
But as Campion grows in his spiritual life, he seeks the Truth, and finds it back in the Catholic Church.
I guess Campion's story touched a cord in Waugh's heart, as it did in mine.
Evelyn Waugh, was greatly influenced by the life of St. Campion and later converted to Catholicism.
Here he presents a readable, interesting, and intellectual account of Campion's life.
This account begins with a riveting introduction to the Tudor dynasty with a listless, aged Elizabeth.
Then we are transported back to an earlier time when Elizabeth first encountered Campion as a student at Oxford and was dazzled by him...his intellect was a marvel.
What he learned changed him forever...he became a Catholic at a time when it was incredibly dangerous to do so and allowed God to move and work in his life.
It's hard to believe the bloodshed between Christians after the reformation.Campion was a Catholic priest, a Jesuit.
He went home to England to minister to the Catholics who were persecuted by the government.
He was one of a host of martyrs, each, in their several ways, gallant and venerable; some performed more sensational feats of adventure, some sacrificed more conspicuous positions in the world, many suffered crueller tortures, but to his own, and to each succeeding generation, Campion's fame has burned with unique warmth and brilliance; it was his genius to express, in sentences that have resounded across centuries, the spirit of chivalry in which they suffered, to typify in his zeal, his innocence, his inflexible purpose, the pattern which they followed."
I see smarmy, self-satisfied men and conservative, judgmental pundits who have almost turned me away.
Then I read this book.
Campion was an inspiring man who reminds me why it is important to stand by your beliefs regardless of the consequences.
I held my breath when he was assigned to England, even knowing before I read this book what happened to him.
His question about turning your back on old ways and loyalty to those who have gone before, makes me keep going, inspiring me to continue my journey, united in faith with people like him who have willingly suffered so I will not.
I read this when 64 years old and thought it tough to get through.
My sister read it when a senior in high school - I really wonder what those English classes were like.
He gives the month without the year, and last names without ever giving the first name, as if we readers are familiar with the story.If years aren't important to you, well then, the story of Edmund Campion is just fine.
He's well received wherever he goes, whether Ireland, Spanish Netherlands, Rome, Prague, or England.But Queen Elizabeth decides to crack down on the Catholic Church, for, it is not the Church of England!
Once Campion leaves Rome, he is always traveling in disguise.
Campion was a man's saint!
A definite stud.
If you are looking for some quick inspiration, I definitely recommend this book.
It's very short, and doesn't attempt to be a definitive biography.
It's goal is to paint a picture of the man and the saint in broad strokes, which it accomplishes very well.
After reading it you'll want to learn how to speak Latin and Greek fluently and die as a missionary martyr.The book also gives a great quick picture of Elizabethan England.
It doesn't try to be a history book, so it leaves gaps and makes some assumptions, but does a very good job of reminding/teaching one of the basic events of the era.
Beautifully written biography of the renowned Jesuit scholar and martyr. There is a detailed background of the brutality and just plain villainry of the Elizabethan government with respect to the Catholics in the country and, externally, with the Catholic countries. Against this scenery, the devotion of the seminary priests and the Jesuits in their covert ministry to the Catholics in England is inspiring. An excellent read.
Yikes ... I think this (and "The Past", by Tessa Hadley) is one of the few books I've read from beginning to end in the last month. Quite engrossing, I thought, and has a bit of tangency w Thomas More and H. Mantel;s Thomas Cromwell ... a bit. I'd like to read a bit more, abt, say, the English Catholic college in France at Douai, spelled various ways. Utterly fascinating.
A fantastic recounting of a great English saint by a very accomplished and well-written author. What's not to love? Couple this with "Autobiography of a Hunted Priest" and you get an amazing picture of one of the darkest times in the history of the Church. But the darkest times usually produce the most heroic saints. St. Edmund Campion, pray for us!
Not the best place to start with either Evelyn Waugh or Edmund Campion. Waugh assumes that the reader is very familiar with 16th century England, which I wasn't. Waugh is clearly knowledgeable and passionate, but he lost me in a lot of places.
well-written account of heroic English Jesuit saint.
I LOVED LOVED LOVED THIS BOOK!Amazing true story...
Rather hard to swallow for a heathen lik myself. But read all means read all.
Listed by Patrick Madrid in the Reading Plan of Search and Rescue in Phase 2 (Intermediate). ("exciting story of an apologist")
Read in Dr. Gardner's Baylor seminar on Swift, Sisson, and Waugh (Summer 2014).
This is a biography of a jesuit martyr. I didn't realize that Catholics were tortured during the time of Queen Elizabeth just as Protestants were during the time of Bloody Mary.
Gives a good backdrop to the persecution of Catholics in England during the Reformation. Historical and readable.
