https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/290628.The_Darkest_Road
Much like similar works of art (john crowley’s The Deep, for example), Kay boils down the tropes of fantasy literature until they are at their most iconic, and then breathes wonderful new life into them.Who takes the Darkest Road?
So many of Fionavar Tapestry’s characters must walk paths that end in death and darkness.Finn takes a solitary path, riding with The Wild Hunt, slaughtering evil and good alike, becoming a thread of chaos in the tapestry.
His path is the path of the title: a road without friends, without a moral compass, one that leads to the heart of evil and one that ends in a sad and tragically lonely death.
And then...I got to about the 75% point of this third and final volume.
The end I wanted just to say I'd completed this work of a favorite author.And these words were pretty good.
But then...oh and then, about 85% into the book, Kay leveled his story at me and struck, right in the heart.
Yes, this was the Kay I was looking for, the brilliance I had previously discovered in his other work and was missing to this point.
I came around so much that I'm actually thinking a reread could very well be much more rewarding for that first 11/12 of the trilogy, knowing what I do about the final 12th.But I'll wait a few years, I think...
Firstly, because the many protagonists central to the plot are often separated they then spend a lot of time catching up and telling each other what has already happened so if you add recounting the past events from the previous books that means a lot of repetition.
We had the longest road in the previous book, now we have the darkest road embellished with similar undertones: the loss, the choice, the sacrifice, the love embraced even, or specifically, in and through death.
(view spoiler)[As you remember Jennifer gave birth to Rakoth’s son deciding that this child is her answer to the Dark.
"All the roads are dark.
Only at the end is there a hope of light.The Darkest Road is the third and last book of the Fionavar Tapestry, in which the approaching battle again Rakoth Maugrim and his monstrous lieutenants looms like a shadow over the kingdoms of Fionavar.I hate the fact that I just couldn't enjoy this book, and unfortunately it's my own fault.
The series lost me in the second volume, with some developments I didn't like and and overall decrease in quality from the first book, and that led to me almost skimming through the third.
On my list of "All Time Favorite" novels.
What I am about to say may be deemed sacrilege amount fantasy readers but the truth is, from the stanpoint of "emotion evoking" and "lyrical, poetic" prose combined with "epic, larger than life, no grey area good guys" this is the BEST FANTASY TRILOGY I have ever read and knocks LOTR (who is famous for both of the aforementioned attributes) out of the top spot.
Either way, this should definitely be on your must read list.
*** 4 *** A buddy read with the Kay Squad at FBR! Because he is a master at what he does!!!  "...“All the roads are dark. Only at the end is there a hope of light.” ..." And at the end it is all about the choices we make as a free thinking individuals... Yes there are circumstances, there are good and bad influences, there are G-ds and Demons, curves and constructions on our paths, loss, love, more loss, joy, loss, rebirth and so on the world keeps going, as one of my favorite singers Reba says,
Yes there are circumstances, there are good and bad influences, there are G-ds and Demons, curves and constructions on our paths, loss, love, more loss, joy, loss, rebirth and so on the world keeps going, as one of my favorite singers Reba says, " I guess the world doesn't stop for my broken heart..."In our lives we take so many journeys of self discovery and quests for making our lives better, but many are abandoned even before we make the first step...
I mean, you might say, “no, no (view spoiler)[his eyes just turn red (hide spoiler)],” or whatever, but I think you’re wrong.
I don’t know, was Power Rangers supposed to be a little funny, or at least facetious?
But, I don’t get this.And THEN at the end (view spoiler)[when the WHOLE Camelot crew gets on the boat that’s supposed to only hold one person?
Like this, but not funny:I’m sure I was supposed to be so in love with the characters that their every move stirred passion within me, but that was not the case.
Maybe I’m going to take a break from things I don’t get, like fantasy books, for a while, though.["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Το φινάλε της τριλογίας είναι απίστευτο! Αυτά τα βιβλία τα αγαπώ! Όπως και τον Πολ! Δες εδώ περισσότερα: http://bit.ly/2keHsyb
What started as a chance association at a lecture becomes entirely meaningful as each of these people accepts their role in the grand design, The Tapestry that represents the integrity of the world of Fionavar and thereby all of it’s alternate worlds.
And this book is the only one of the three that takes place completely in Fionavar, making it the strongest of the three, in my opinion.
Galadan, that demi-god who supported the Darkness is allowed a chance to return to the Tapestry.
I will now attempt to review the trilogy.It's a fantasy tour de force, pulling together so many strands from differing mythologies and interweaving them with a fresh imagining of a world in which magic coexists with entirely human struggles and frailties.I have read all three books many times, but I still find something new each time. And I still cry like a baby....
I shouldn't read books like this at work.
I knew I would cry reading it.
While I've always loved the other two books this one is my favourite.
It is heartbreaking to read.
As he journeys he grows emotionally, he realizes that his mother trusts him even though she is closed off to him, she sends Lancelot after him to protect him and he realizes this too.
His sacrifice leads to his father's destruction in a heartbreaking but ultimately emotionally satisfying conclusion.
I love him dearly and I'm not ashamed to say how glad I was when Arthur and his dog were reunited.
A fitting end to this high fantasy. So glad I read the series.
Μπορεί ο τίτλος του βιβλίου να αφορά κάποιον συγκεκριμένα (view spoiler)[Ντέαριαν (hide spoiler)] αλλά προσωπικά θεωρώ πως όλοι οι χαρακτήρες κάποια στιγμή στην πορεία τους βρέθηκαν αντιμέτωποι με μία δύσκολη επιλογή.
(Όχι απαραίτητα το να ακολουθήσουν τον Πιο Σκοτεινό Δρόμο αλλά θα μπορούσαν να κάνουν μία επιλογή που να είχε πολύ πιο άσχημη κατάληξη είτε για τους ίδιους είτε γενικά για τον κόσμο της Φιόναβαρ).Οι ιστορίες των πρωταγωνιστών δεν είναι όλες ευχάριστες και δεν έχουν όλες happy end.
Η πιο τραγική βέβαια θεωρώ πως είναι (view spoiler)[του Ντέαριαν.
Resolutions to problems were often unrealistic, relying a great deal on coincidences and intuition, or special abilities discovered at precisely the moment they were needed.It wasn’t all as bad as I might be making it sound, though.
I still liked most of the main characters, and I was often absorbed by the story aside from the unrealistic and/or melodramatic moments.
Based on what I’ve read from him so far, which includes this series plus two other books, Kay has a way with words that draws me into a story, and he’s especially good at writing characters and friendships that I care about.
Arrivare all'alba "Dovresti sapere che sono giaciuto morto a Cader Sedat, Corona Borealis dei re fra le stelle.
Saprai che quel castello si trova sull'asse di incrocio di tutti i mondi, con il mare che batte contro le sue mura e tutte le stelle del cielo che vi girano attorno.""Nonostante il luogo in cui hai giaciuto, rimani comunque mortale, spadaccino.
Vorresti morire per il figlio di Rakoth Maugrim?""Ebbe la visione del lupo e del ragazzo che si passavano vicini nell'oscurità del bosco prima che sorgesse la luna, che si passavano così vicini e non lo sapevano, non lo avrebbero mai saputo.
In the first book, the sorrow of tragic events was creatively expressed almost poetically, and through the characters actions.
In this book the author took the tack that if you repeat the fact that a character is feeling sad frequently enough, it will have emotional impact.
So there's a lot of names of places that mean nothing to me, the significance of which might explain the character's actions, but because I've never heard of the place I can't figure out why people are doing what they're doing.
Όπως συνηθίζεται στο είδος ασχολούμαστε κυρίως με την τελευταία μάχη ανάμεσα στο καλό και στο κακό, η περιγραφή της όμως από τον συγγραφέα κάθε άλλο παρά συνηθισμένη είναι.
Είναι πραγματικά συγκλονιστικός ο τρόπος που περιγράφει και τα ίδια τα γεγονότα αλλά και την ψυχολογική επίδραση που έχουν στους ήρωες μας.
Νομίζω ότι μετά από αυτό θα πρέπει να κατατάξω τον Guy Gavriel Kayστη λίστα με τους αγαπημένους μου συγγραφείς.
Ο τρόπος που γράφει είναι πραγματικά υπέροχος, με έναν λυρισμό που μοιάζει να βγαίνει αβίαστα και να προσφέρει συγκίνηση χωρίς να εκβιάζει το συναίσθημα.
I read this series once a year for a few years in a row when I was much younger (high school and into early college).
The books moved me and made me weep every time I read them.Between then and now at least 10 years have passed in which I have read little fantasy, my tastes have shifted in many ways, and I have grown up a lot.
I was terribly afraid to return to them after so many years.
I was afraid they would be weak, derivative, incapable of moving me in the same way.
The amazing scope of emotions that this book pushed me through; that's the good thing.
That Kay could write something so poignant and yet still hopeful and beautiful...
That's talent right there.I don't even know what to say really.
When it comes to romance, when it comes to tragedy, nothing comes close to Kay.
I don't know.
Fricken Kay..
Very romantic and tragic, definitely more emotional / character driven content than action, but not disappointing in the action department when it's called for.
Series overall is at about 4.
Not my favorite Kay ever written, but definitely more than worthwhile.

I'm sad, I didn't like this more. I thought the first book was such a magical experience that I probably expected way too much from the sequels, but I didn't enjoy the Arthurian legends Kay introduced in book two and ended up mostly skimming book three. I'm still going to read Guy Gavriel Kay's other books because I love his prose, love his writing and think he's a fantastic author.
Best book in the series but holy hetero/allonormativity, especially at the end. Also I still don't understand the inclusion of the Arthurian elements.
Of the three books, this is the strongest: the best prose, the best action, the best images, the best in all the characters.
Tolkien's work, dark as it can be, holds back from killing off the characters we love, and thus makes them less mortal, less fragile, and less dear.)I still think that Kay sucks at building romance stories up.
I believe in the established love of Arthur, Lancelot and Guinevere -- and fresh from reading The Mists of Avalon, I find myself thinking that Kay wasn't simply talking of loyalty to a lord when he wrote of Lancelot's love for Arthur -- and in that of Sharra and Diarmuid.
Eppure...eppure su Fionavar, sul primo di tutti i mondi, questi comuni uomini e donne scopriranno che il Tessitore ha previsto la scelta, il filo imprevedibile nell'Arazzo che consente di rompere le catene della predestinazione, di scardinare la ruota della coazione a ripetere, di essere liberi, liberi di veleggiare verso quel "luogo dove tutto cambia, compreso il mondo".Come in tutte le storie ci sono personaggi che spiccano perchè portano quel qualcosa in più agli eventi, o semplicemente perchè in essi è infusa un'aura di "epicità" che non sapremmo spiegare.
A bittersweet ending to a truly lovely tale.
Even in this early (1986) effort, Kay came through with a original and satisfying story.
The original part was noteworthy because, as he did in many novels since, the basic elements of his story were drawn from real history and mythology.
("Real mythology"?
Some authors, from Tolkien on, created whole worlds with new-from-the-ground-up histories and mythologies.
Kay took existing ones--British, in this case--to re-cast for his story.)The series as a whole featured an great deal of self-sacrifice and redemption; themes I enjoy.
The cover art of all three books came from a single work by Janny Wurtz and Don Maitz.
A single failure doomed their--and all--worlds.
Kay delivers.
After the long build up of the first two books, the war finally really gets underway.
I don't feel Paul and Jaelle at all, for example -- I can see what he tries to do with them, and I understand why he thinks they'd be suited to each other in one way, but when it comes down to it, I really don't feel anything about them getting together.
It's this, the fact that it breaks me anew every time and makes me love it more than ever, that gets these three books five stars.
When I first opened my Goodreads account, I spent a lot of time logging and rating whatever books I could remember I had read, but I didn’t review any of that first batch.
I don’t know when I decided to review everything I read, even if that meant writing just a few sentences, but I know it was after I had logged this book.
And when they couldn’t find their copy, I bought it at the book store where I worked at the time, knowing how ridiculous it was to own the second book in a trilogy and none of the others, but knowing too I couldn’t wait another day for it.
I potpuno mi je drago što nisam počeo s tapiserijom, nisam siguran koliko bi mi se njegov opus sviđao da je tu bio početak.Treći nastavak serijala, kao i prethodna dva, ima iste problem – ima dosadne momente preko kojih je teško preći.
Ali oni momenti koji su vrhunski su toliko dobri da zastaje dah, osjećao sam se kao da sam tamo (recimo dio s patuljcima).Bio sam blizu pet zvjezdica, ali kako sam prethodnima dao četiri, odlučio sam i ovo, mogao bih reći kako sam zaokružio na niže.
Drago mi je što sam ovo napokon pročitao, ali ako krećete čitati Kaya, krenite s nekom drugom knjigom – Tapiserija nije najbolje što on pruža.
Fã como sou das histórias intricadas, das voltas e reviravoltas, do desconhecido e das surpresas mais marcantes, dos mundos construídos ao pormenor, nunca pensei gostar tanto de uma obra tão simples e linear com esta é mas a verdade é que Guy Gavriel Kay é um mestre em unir elementos improváveis através de uma escrita fluída e magistral onde o timing nos corta a respiração.Sendo o fim da trilogia, A Senda Sombria marca pelos momentos emotivos que se vivem ao longo das suas páginas, onde tudo pode acontecer e sofremos até a última linha para sabermos os destinos de todas as personagens que nos acompanharam ao longo destas páginas.
