https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8573020-the-weird-sisters
They are born to parents whose names I don’t recall (and I don’t care), in a fictional town of Barnwell, Ohio, home to Barnwell college (university?
That would have been the perfect setting for this book, and it would have made it a little more interesting………anyway.The dad is a professor at Barmwell, and reads nothing but Shakespeare, and quotes it in every possible moment like Rainman.
Oh, did I mention that the three sisters are named after Shakespearean characters?
I’m going to say at least 65% of Ohioans have never read Shakespeare at any length, and I think that generous.
I read about 50 pages of this.
I found the unknown narrator irritating-at first I thought I might have missed who was doing the narrating and kept going back to see, but then I realized the book was supposed to be like that, that there was no one narrator; I may be old-fashioned but I like knowing who's doing the narrating in a book.
I suppose this can be considered an antinovel since I haven't seen this kind of narration before.
I kept looking at another book on the table beside my chair and finally the other book won.
(I would give this ten out of five stars if I could.)This is the first book I have read that uses a first-person-plural narrative style, and it was so completely appropriate; you get the sense that this book came together with these three sisters sitting around a Pensieve after the events of this book have transpired, looking at them playing out again, and dictating the story to the author, who has set up shop with a typewriter in the adjacent corner of the room.Speaking of the author.
(And the way the author managed to weave in so much of Shakespeare's original words so naturally and seamlessly is certainly another credit to her mastery and skill.)As for the story itself?
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “Sisters keep secrets. Because sisters’ secrets are swords.” This space could probably remain blank and a whole ton of you would go buy The Weird Sisters for this little blurb alone . . .  There is no problem that a library card can't solve. I should probably leave it at that because I have no clue what to say about this book. Here, allow me to distract you with some giffery . . . .  Ahhhh, that’s better. All glory and honor to the H
You will now give me all of your likes and I don’t have to tell you anything about the book at all .
So touchy that one is sometimes.My friend Trudi sums The Weird Sisters up best when she says this book isn’t really about anything.
This isn’t a book I would have ever picked up on my own.
Buuuuuuut in my quest for all things free from the library this was a suggested selection for the Shakespeare-inspired challenge and I immediately put my name on the wait list.
This selection was chosen as part of the library’s Winter Reading Challenge.
Clearly Eleanor Brown just took some extended writing class and thinks she's an author because she's using every cliche and plot technique to prolong a story that's just not interesting.
Here are the reasons I know she's an amateur writer: 1) She includes insignificant details that are supposed to make her characters round but really have nothing at all to do with the characters - why is it important to talk about someone looking at a goddamn dishtowel?
4) Not a single book is named although the characters are constantly reading.
I don't even know them as characters (thanks to amateur writing) and I don't like them.Ugh. Good riddance and go back to the hell from whence you came!
At times, some of the interactions seemed two-dimensional to me.On the other hand, I do believe that we often revert back to habits and interactions of childhood when returning to the nest of the family, no matter what our age.
These scenes seemed truer to me than some of the others.The need to be needed and the fact that our parents won't live forever also play parts in the unfolding of this story.I enjoyed reading it, but I don't know that this is a book I will keep.
It's about 3 sisters who all end up moving back home to "help" their mother while she's battling breast cancer.
The youngest, Cordelia, is a bohemian slut who has spent all of her twenties screwing and hitchhiking her way across the country.
Wait for it...the father was a Shakespearean professor who liked to quote Shakespeare and named his daughters after Shakespearean characters and the mother frequently burned dinner because she was as absent minded as the father and liked to read books instead of cook.
These are obnoxious people who all deserve each other and I deserve to get back the hours it took me to read this crappy book.
“So you’ll both be underfunctioners, just one of you will be the slut and one of you will be the flake.” “Fine by me,” Bianca drawled, flipping her hair, “Only I get to be the slut.” “Well, I’m the youngest,” said Cordy, “So I guess it would fit for me to be the flake.”“Now,” said Rose, ticking another item off her agenda.
"And you, Rose?" "Well, as the resident overfunctioner, I could realize that I need to stop being so controlling, that the family won't fall apart without me, that I can leave home, follow my dreams..." “Don’t I at least get a love interest?” begged Cordy.
Three sisters, three different outlooks on life, three different opinions about working, three different attitudes concerning just about everything, but they all had the same reason for coming home.....their mother needed help because of her breast cancer.
Their childhood home was one of love, of books, and Shakespearean quotes....the entire family quoted Shakespeare as they spoke and thought nothing of doing so.
None of the girls was ever without a book in her hands.Just as in childhood, the adult lives of each sister went opposite ways in terms of interest and responsibility, but their love and concern for each other was evident.
When their mother is diagnosed with cancer, Bianca and Cordelia find themselves returning home to join their third sister, Rose, who still lives in their hometown.
As the three sisters are thrown together in their childhood home, the pressures of living together as adults and dealing with their mother's illness and the bizarreness of returning to the quiet town they grew up in causes friction between them.
This produces an intriguing tension between what the reader knows and what the sisters do, while granting an intimacy with all three.
This book started out great!
I loved the quoting Shakespeare and the story itself told by all three sisters.
After a while I found the writing annoying.
It wasn't always easy to understand what Brown was trying to say.
I persevered and by the middle I just wanted to know what happened.
I felt that this was basically a very juvenile story and I most certainly would not recommend it to anyone.
By the way, this is the first time I am taking the time to review a book.
I think I am venting because this book had great potential but ultimately just wasted my time!
This book is nothing like the kind of thing I choose to read.
It is the kind of thing found in the "New fiction" section at Barnes and Noble, or "Literature" in other places.
I'm a genre fiction sort of girl, and so this isn't something I'd have ever read under normal conditions.But, when the Vice President comes flying down the hall to give you her copy because she's sure you'd enjoy it...well....
I'll give it a go.It was lovely.The narrative voice is...witty, and acerbic, and warm (as appropriate), and just a little odd.
Odd in a good way (a very original use of first person).
I mean, I come from a family with three sisters--I'm the youngest and I know a little bit about Shakespeare--happen to love Othello and The Taming of the Shrew.
I thought it was a novel idea that the three sisters were named after characters from Shakespeare--and maybe we should've left it at that.
(I don't think I can say it enough how so very important it is for an author to get the names right for their characters.) Because to do otherwise, can be a real train wreck.
I mean, I could tell the author that you had a reason for the daughters to come come back home--their mother's illness.
It's supposed to be clever, but I came away with the impression that the author wrote this with a concordance to Shakespeare by her side and periodically would look up a word like "retirement" and throw in a quote without necessarily understanding it.The author also attempts the type of first-person plural narration used to such good effect in Then We Came to the End. The three sisters are referred to as "we" (and "our parents," etc.) but each individually is referred to in the third person, so that you can't tell who is really telling the story--or perhaps they all are.
At a time when I should be blazing through the pages of every book I pick up, I find myself smelling the proverbial roses.
Plus, life just gets in the way sometimes and it's been doing a darn good job of pulling me away from the last few books I've picked up.
How could I not be pulled into a story about sisters and the dynamics of small town life, that celebrates books, the Bard, and new beginnings.
As Rose, Bean and Cordy show us, no matter how much a life seems utterly derailed, it's never too late to start over.
When I began The Weird Sisters, I was hopeful that it could an ideal combination of fine writing but a fun/easier read.
While I wouldn't recommend this book, I am eager to see what Brown writes next because if she marries her excellent use of language with more compelling characters and action, I would be an eager reader.
In reading the reviews of others--both of this book and others--I was diappointed to find abusive language and a complete lack of respect for the author and the potential reader.
I think back to my review of Amy Sohn's Motherland, which I debated over because I thought it was harsh.
First we have Rose the stuffy, plain, type-A eldest sister who just needs to learn to give up her dreams of having a career so that she can move on to much more important things like romance.
As soon as she can let go of those unladylike old-maidish dreams of hers...WOW she can become a totally different person.
She can be a happy housewife with new interests like dropping in to a tai-chi class and living with her perfect husband far far away from that annoying family of hers.
The other main characters Cordy and Bean are equally hate-able.
I think from reading other reviews she unfairly gets a bad rap.
It's also true that the characters often are self absorbed malcontents (as one good read reviewer put it) but their struggles, while they may seem superficial to some, feel genuine and their pain real.
Also I think the idea of three sibling coming home to care for their ailing mother would in fact cause all the tension, conflict, jealousies to boil over.
Haven't we all at some point been home for the holidays and 48 hours in find ourselves back to being a moody teenager infighting with siblings over whose the favorite, who takes the most responsibly, and who is always able to get away with murder.
Strength lay in staying.”Written in a type of omniscient first person/third person voice who is basically a conglomeration of the psyches of all three sisters, this story of the Andreas girls commences with a reunion – of a sort – at their childhood home after receiving news that their mother is ill.Brown does a fine job of weaving us through the present and past, nicely transitioning us through prom dates and managerial meetings, untraditional grade school classes and grown-up career choices without jarring us with abrupt chapter changes and awkward character shifts.
A feel-good book, something that will burn your heart with affection to the characters, and at the end will warm your heart with its story.The story is simple - three sisters who were reunited in their home town to aid their ailing mother.
Fortunately for me, I'm the youngest, so it's not that hard to seek attention and affection.I wouldn't talk much about the characters, since the reader has to discover each characters weakness and strength to appreciate their story.
I love the simple but real dramas, the angst, and the pain of each character.If you love your family, or even if you don't, which I also doubt, you'll find this book a heartwarming read.
I am dying of boredom trying to read this book. Life is too short to waste on this book.
Another unexpected read that I opened by chance and it hooked me, this tale of the three sisters from a reasonably normal small college town family who take quite different life paths only to reunite when thei mother's illness and some major happenings in their life (pregnancy, marriage but also messed up career and heartbreak) brings them back to their home.A fast and engaging read with well drawn characters
When Macbeth was written the word “weird” meant something closer to fate, and the book’s story contains a mixture of determinism, because each sister is influenced by being born with a particular birth order into a household consumed with Shakespeare, and free will, since each sister immediately sets out to carve her own life.When I read in reviews that The Weird Sisters has a first person plural narrator, a "we" that includes all three sisters, I pictured a homogenized Greek chorus and was extremely skeptical that the book could delve deeply enough into any of them to be interesting.
They all move back into their parents' house, Rose to help with her mother, Bean to get back on her feet and reconcile with her recent past, and Cordy because impending baby, and get along about as well as you'd expect while their mother goes to chemo and their father constantly quotes Shakespeare all the damn time.I enjoyed this story but, man, it was a difficult journey because I felt like I was stuck with all these people I didn't like; seriously, I don't think there was one character in this book to whom I felt attached in any way.
If those names rang a bell to you, it might be because they’re all based on Shakespearean characters, as their father is a Shakespeare professor at the small college in their hometown.
Speaking of the sisters’ love of reading, that’s what the author tries to use to make the sisters unique.
I mean, if you enjoy flowery descriptions with a boring plot or are really really really into Shakespeare, maybe you might find some redeeming qualities in it, but for me, I only finished this book so I could write a long review bitching about it for all you lovely followers.
I read that Eleanor Brown simply wanted to write a book about families.
When I read her post on The Debutante Ball, Eleanor Brown claimed that her writing comes “haphazardly”.
I, for one, don’t buy it-or if that is true I want some of it!Because the truth is, The Weird Sisters is one of the most unique and most real books I have read lately.
It lives like the Bard and Brown intended-taking language to a place few writers can.I loved the writing, the characters, and the story of this book.
Even Shakespeare wants you to!
This is the story of three sisters who have returned to their Ohio home town to help care for their mother who's receiving treatment for breast cancer.
But it turns out that their simultaneous return home is more coincidental than prompted by desire to nurse their mother.
Their interaction takes place within the influence of their upbringing much inculcated by the spirit of their father, a college Shakespearean professor.
Their father responds to all situations with an applicable quotation from The Bard.
Having five sisters of my own, I really did not identify with any of the characters or relationships in the book.
Eventually each sister just got on my nerves.
Most readers find an instant connection to characters who also love to read.
I think they should have all been reading more self-help books.
I come away from the book with two memorable quotes ~"There is no problem that a library card can't solve.""See, we love each other.
We just don't happen to like each other very much."I am glad I got this from my local library and did not pay for it.
Suffice to say, Rose, Bean and Cordy are definitely not perfect.
I like the way the author explains how Rose ended up being such a controlling individual.
She is the most sympathetic character for me, maybe because I see a little myself in her… Yes, I am a controlling freak… ask any of my sibs; they hate it too.Then there’s Bianca who is definitely not perfect.
Now, give me bombshell type, down on her luck and yet still with a sense of humor (ala Susan Elizabeth Philipps’s female in Ain’t She Sweet) and I might have found Bianca/Bean a bit more tolerable… but she just came across as dislikeable (made up word alert.) Was it because it never crossed her mind that to take money that wasn’t hers could be construed as CRIMINAL?
The eldest is so terrifed of change that she is using her mother's illness as an excuse to not visit her finance in London; the middle sister has been fired for embezzeling money from her employer to buy designer clothes (and never considered she could be arrested) and the youngest is pregant from a 2-night stand where she exchanged sex for a place to stay but is excited to have the baby since this will be "all her's" rather than a "hand me down" from her sisters.
The poor mother is just a backdrop to the story and every sterotype of cancer victim is played out as well and the father is characterization of the "absent minded professor".
