https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1050701.The_Plague_Court_Murders
The Plague Court Murders is an eerie and intense mystery with a lot of intriguing plot devices. If you love detective fiction, it's definitely one I'd recommend.
Già, in quanto ad atmosfera (intesa come la intendo io) qui il maestro non ci risparmia proprio nulla: abbiamo una casa misteriosa teatro di un suicidio del passato, abbiamo un gruppo di personaggi che lì si riunisce, a lume di candela, per fare una seduta spiririca, abbiamo passi furtivi, lame di coltello striscianti e un personaggio che viene ritrovato pugnalato in una stanza chiusa all'interno, un delitto che, ovviamente, nella migliore tradizione di Carr, sembra impossibile.
The Plague Court Murders is the first in a series featuring Sir Henry Merrivale, noted expert on crime, barrister, physician and all around smart guy when it comes to solving the unsolvable.
The language may try the patience of modern mystery readers (it was written in the 1930s), and also, we don't really meet Sir Henry until late in the game.
As noted, modern mystery readers may be a bit put off by the language and the slowness of the story at times, but those readers who are fans of books written during the Golden Age of Mystery will probably enjoy it.
I guess I could try it even if I'm not a writer, you can still write without making a book of the thing.I found that Carr's two major detective characters, Dr. Fell and Sir Henry Merrivale, are quite similar.
But we will start with our narrator being in his club one night when an old friend of his, Dean Halliday comes in and asks our narrator whose name I can't remember at the time, if he will be willing to go spend the night in a "haunted" house.
The recognized master of the "locked room" story.
In this entry, Merrivale is called in to solve the murder of a fake psychic who, it appears, has been slashed to death inside an impregnable room.
There are many suspects, all of whom were being bilked by the so-called psychic but how did the murderer get inside that room?
All is not what it appears and the solution is outlandish.
These stories are not for everyone and the writing style is reminiscent of turn of the 20th century detective tales......but it is rather fun!
3): - A book that is a story within a story- A book by an author who uses a pseudonym- The first book in a series you haven't read beforeRead Harder Challenge: A book published between 1900 & 1950Better World Books: A book set in a place you want to visit (London)Vintage Mystery Cover Scavenger Hunt: a birdThis was the first book in the Sir Henry Merrivale series, but it's interesting that early covers did not recognize that and instead listed Masters as the detective.
I found it particularly interesting to look up the locations as best I could, as quite a bit of it took place in my old stamping grounds, and then it was fun to overlay the locations in The Dark Days Club to see what matched up there as well.
What I failed to point out was that the edition is a prime example of the low publishing standards covered in The Verge's article.
The ebook has no cover illustration (the Goodreads entry seems inaccurate about this), no table of contents for chapter navigation, and copious examples of inadequate (or no) proofreading after the OCR conversion.I'll stand by my recommendation that the book is worth getting for Carr's story – but don't let that stop you complaining to the publisher and to the Kindle store about the low production quality.
This book introduces my favorite fictional detective, "H.M.", aka Sir Henry Merrivale, aka "The Maestro," aka "Mycroft," aka "The Old Man," among other nicknames.
This book is the first featuring one of Carter Dickson/ John Dickson Carr's two major detectives (the other being Gideon Fell.) H.M. is cranky, lazy, rude, and brilliant.
Then another associate of the murdered man dies under bizarre circumstances, and another goes missing...and much to his annoyance H.M. is the only one who stands a chance at untangling the sordid affair.Carr/Dickson books generally combine a sinister semi-supernatural atmosphere, a complex puzzle, bawdy humor, and some romantic element, though never in quite the same way.
So many things happen all at once in several different places, and so the book turns into something of a Greek play, where all the action happens offstage; we only get to hear about it secondhand, afterwards.It's a weird tug-of-war where it's at times a bit dull and you're trying to remember who's who while waiting for something to happen, and then all of a sudden, a big pile of information and things happening simultaneously is dumped on your head all at once, leaving you rather dazed and confused.But (of course there is one), like most his other works, this is also a creepy ghost story, one that gave me chills at times, with an intertwined beastly crime.At times, I found myself thinking "I quite like this," while at other times it was unable to keep my focus, and I found myself reading the same paragraph over and over.So, to conclude: Not awful, but definitely not his best.
This was about 3 1/2 stars.It took too long to wrap up. It seemed to take forever for Merrivale to explain the whole thing. I certainly didn't get it.Carter Dickson a/k/a John Dickson Carr is the master of the closed room murder.
Very good Locked Room murder mystery with a fun lead character.
Il debutto di Sir Henry Merrivale, detto il Vecchio, in un mistero della camera chiusa perfetto.
L'atmosfera soprannaturale è costruita molto meticolosamente con effetti suggestivi sul lettore, utilizzando medium, maledizioni, figure spettrali come il boia di Plague Court.
Ma, come sempre in Carr, la Verità non è mai quella che appare all'inizio e l'entrata in scena del Vecchio ci conduce per mano alla soluzione finale, inaspettata sotto molti punti di vista, ma molto molto poco soprannaturale.Personalmente stavolta ho apprezzato molto che la soluzione della camera chiusa non si basasse solo su artifici quanto mai complessi, ma anche su un elemento...
With a very Conan Doyle-ish plot, the book is rife with digs at the Victorian spiritualism that Conan Doyle engrossed himself with through the voice of the "lovable" (?) socialist, Henry Merrivale (HM).A knotty, not-so-good first outing for HM, you fatheads!
now i am hooked. This was such a great, easy and creative book. i was hooked after the first page. The characters were easy to fall in love with and follow, along with the story. the author made the mental visions so easy and vivid of the surroundings and the characters actions felt so real.i would highly recommend this author and this book.
Комбинирано ревю на "Чумавият двор" и "Убийство в зоопарка" в Wanderbook
This was my first time reading a book featuring Sir Henry Merrivale.
Once that part was over and we were in the investigating, I became more interested; but the best part of the book is when we finally meet Sir Henry Merrivale.
I definitely loved the character and wish he had been in from the start, I like his way of investigating which does remind me a little of Poirot: he's all in his head and a little of Sherlock Holmes: he can deduce a lot from physical clues.The Plague Court Murders is a locked-room mystery.
This mystery was interesting, made sense at the end (big bonus!) and introduced a well loved character.
I'll be reading some more stories featuring Sir Henry Merrivale.
There is something about this book that kept me unwilling to keep reading it.
All the characters were often named by their first name that wasn't mentioned before that, so I kept being confused about who is who.
All the detective's names were starting with M which confused me a lot during the first several chapters.
I never understood what's the purpose of the main story-teller through which eyes the readers follow the action; I was confused about his history and his connections to the police and why was he never a suspect.
I wasn't sure about this book at the start. The backstory about the history of the house (Plague Court is the name of a house) was a bit too old-fashioned and gothic for me. Once H.M. comes into it the pace picked up considerably and once the mystery of the locked room started to unravel I couldn't put it down.
This classic locked room mystery combines elements of gothicism with the things fans of golden age mysteries except. The combination of a slightly more cerebral detection paired with moody gothic atmospherics is delightful, if a bit dated. Fun.
Ken Bates has been invited by his friend Dean Halliday out to the family estate. It seems that one Louis Playge, an infamous murderer, is haunting the family. When a famous psychic is killed in a locked room with police right outside the door, they have to call in the famous Sir Merivale for help.
I didn't guess the murderer because a few things weren't clear to me. It would have helped if I was familiar with the role of Viola in Twelfth Night. Still, I don't think this was Carr's best effort. His later works were better, IMO. Interesting how even in 1934 "clue" was spelled "clew."
Full of atmosphere, intricately plotted, and with well drawn characters, this is the first in the Merrivale series, and although not the best, it's quite a fun read. It's primary problem to my mind is the somewhat contrived solution.
A debut with a bang. Beautiful novel with a exceptional Locked Room
sad to realize that i have seen the trick before
The first of Sir Henry Merrivale novels, a haunted castle mystery, still a bit rough around the edges.
This was one of the best books i have ever read. It's 100% captivating, and full of deduction. A "must read" for Locked Room Mysteries fans if you ask me
