https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/141022.White_Snow_Bright_Snow
There is a fine poem about the snow to open the book that I really enjoyed. In the early 40s publishers would use 3 colors - black, white and then one color like red or something. Now in '47, this book is using 5 colors - black, white, red, yellow and green. It gives a striking palate to work with.This is a lovely book about snow and how people get ready for it. Kids are playing in the snow. It ends with a robin showing up. The nephew thought it was ok. He's more ready for summer, not winter.
It talks about how a farmer, policeman, wife, and postman prepare themselves as they sense and see snow coming down.
It describes how adults and children see this snow fall, as well as the animals.
This book really captures how much fun children have in the snow and how snow is to be enjoyed.
It also emphasizes the season changing to Spring as the children see a Robin.
This book would be perfect for 2-4 graders and will definitely bring a great discussion about seasons, appropriate clothing for the weather, and how adults and children enjoy the weather differently.
3.5 STARSThis won the Caldecott Medal in 1947.
It's certainly not one of my top illustrated reads.
But, that said, I really did enjoy reading it since it just feels so nostalgic and nice--like watching one of those great old Christmas movies or some old slides of my parents' childhood Christmas mornings ;-) The story itself is pretty simple, nothing really stellar in the telling; it's been a few weeks since I read it and I honestly can't remember much except that it's about a town experiencing a snowfall and then a snow melt.
No real characters, just a sense of place and happening.
Illustrated by Roger DuvoisinThis 1948 Caldecott winner looks at the effects of a major snowstorm on the people of a town and on the farm.
As the snowflakes begin the mailman puts on his galoshes, children play, a farmer feeds his stock, the policeman’s wife makes sure he does not get a chill.
The mailman puts on heavier clothes and high boots.
And everyone waits for spring.At first I really liked Roger Duvoisin’s illustrations, with a grey, wintery palette, interspersed with a touch of color here and there.
The message of the book was happy, but I didn’t think the illustrations matched that mood.
This is one of my favorite Caldecott books. I've read this one many times, and felt all over again all the things I feel every time we have a big snowstorm. The anticipation...the way the snow falls, the way it melts away afterwards. This captures winter so beautifully that I have to sit back and sigh. The pictures seem dated, but it's part of the fun, getting a glimpse of yesteryear and seeing all the connections to today.
As the story concludes, the weather warms and the children meet the first robin of Spring.This pleasant story captures the experience of a small community's winter, told in evocative, almost poetic prose.
While some of the story's details (mustard plaster and street lamps) are time-delimited, the descriptions of ice and snow, and the kinds of games the children play, have a timeless appeal that is only augmented by the book's nostalgic mood.Like most picture books printed in the 1940's, the book is illustrated using only four colors.
When it snowed the adults just went about their normal routines and doing their everyday jobs, while the children played and were very curious about the snow.
The major theme of the story was that during the first snow fall of the year is normal to adults because they have been through it before, however, the children were filled with wonder and because they have not experienced snow many times wanted to be outside and explore.
I am from Southern California where it does not snow much so I can relate to the feeling of excitement the kids have when being out in the snow for the first snow fall of the year.
While the adults around them make preparations for a possible large snowfall, the children just can't wait to frolic as the fleecy flakes float down from the sky.
The poetic text and color-splashed illustrations capture the anticipation and delight with which the snow is greeted.
I like a lot of the language used in the book ["Automobiles looked like big fat raisins buried in snowdrifts," unpaged] and how the text and illustrations trace the snow from when there are only signs that it's on the way to after it has melted, and spring is just around the corner.
Once again, I'm the killjoy who judges books outside of the parameters of where/when they were created.
I really loved every single thing about this book except that the one female character - the only one!
- isn't addressed by her own identity, but rather that of the nearest man to her (who is she?
The homemaker?
The talented knitter?
The thoughtful caregiver/nurse?
The most practical adult in the book?
No, she's "the policeman's wife"!) & that it so starkly demonstrates the average life of a small-town American woman of the 1940's.
Man, reading older picture books as a rather opinionated adult is a trip.
The poem is the strength of this book, for me. The tri-color illustrations are dark and gloomy, show little movement, and the layout sometimes negatively impacts our ability to see the text. Probably in 1947 this was a gorgeous book, but it isn't standing the test of time for me.
Holy gender stereotypes, Batman!
I enjoy the poetry and prose most of all but the four color illustrations are interesting. Another one to buy later from a Memoria Press recommendation.
I think it was a good book. In my opinion I would have liked there to be more detail but I get that this was mainly focusing on what people do in cold days.
"Fenceposts lost their duncecaps."Please. I love this book, both for words and illustrations. The humor about the policeman's wife is subtle and lovely.
The book started out where there was no snow however several characters quickly figured out that it was about to snow.
Tresselt uses a lot of vertical lines in his pictures.
He uses a total of four colors black, white, orange, and yellow.
The colors that he uses helps to illustrate a calm and peaceful atmosphere.
The story also includes several triangles and squares.
The story also kind of ends where it starts.
The characters at the beginning of the story change what they wear and what they do, while at the end of the story the ams thing happens.
By the end, winter passes and spring has come, told by a robin's chirp for all to hear.Main Themes: Throughout the story, a few central themes exist including: seasonal change, engaging responsibility, and differing perspectives.Star Rating: 3 stars.
In my opinion, it would lose the interest of children reading the book (or being read the story) because of its length.Personal Response: I find the story to be somewhat humorous and fun.
Beyond these ideas, very few themes exist beyond the enjoyment of good illustrations and an enlightening story.
The theme of this book is that beauty and joy can be found in the smallest of things, specifically in winter.
I really like this book because I think it creates a homey feel while capturing the beauty that is associated with snow.
I never got to experience much snow during the winter unless I travelled outside of Texas, so I can relate to the sense of wonder the children in the story have as opposed to the sense of familiarity the adults who are accustomed to snow have.
White Snow, Bright Snow is a sweet story that captures both the magic and mystery that comes with winter and its snow and the delight and anticipation that comes with the new growth of the spring. Throughout the story, the reader follows a flurry of characters from the postman to the farmer and the policeman to the children, and the little rabbits aren’t forgotten. As the reader, we get to see them explore the cold and the snow of winter and how they go about their lives during the snow of the
White Snow, Bright Snow is quite simple in both its words and illustrations.
The simplicity of the words and colors makes sense, especially for the time, as this book was published in 1947.
Even with the cold being described, the warm colors of the illustrations give the book something of a warm and homely feel.
This challenge may make the book fun for a younger child to read with the help of an adult.
I also found that I often missed the connection between the bright, white snow and the dull illustrations.
The poem had me a bit confused, because I thought it was a part of the story, so when I got to the first page of the actual story and everyone was saying how the snow was coming, but the poem said it covered the roads and fences...
I also doubt that there would be the simple peace of the story--something hectic would be happening and all the people would be rushing about forgetting to breathe.I also find the illustrations quite charming, though the colour pallet is quite hideous in my opinion--people with orange-red faces are quite garish.
White Snow, Bright Snow focuses on 4 major characters - the postman, the farmer, the policeman and his wife, with children and rabbits to provide a contrast.
I did find it funny that the postman, the farmer and the children actually have snow falling on them or them falling in the snow, and the policeman is the one who catches a cold.
I was terrible at reading this book aloud.
All in all, it's an okay book, with some good drawings (where we can see the details), but we won't be re-reading it.
Age Group: 4-7 (grades prek-2nd) Summary: The Postman, Framer, Policeman, and his wife, said it looked and felt like it was going to snow.
Everyone started to enjoy the bright sunshine as the season changed and the snow was quickly forgotten.
This story particularly focuses on the several individual people and how they work and act during the change of season.
This story does a great job of putting to life what it is like as the seasons come and go.
Recommendation: This story would be so wonderful for anyone teaching or wanting to talk about seasons because I feel like it is written very accurately.
Although the bright red-skinned people in the book caught me off guard, I understand why Duvoisin used the bright colors.
The bright colors of the people, the children’s jackets, and the houses stand out against the gray background at night, and the bright white background in the daytime.
The illustrations are soft and simple, just like the scene of a snowy day and the beginning of the spring is.
The white snow at night is a great display of the impressionistic style used in the book.
I would ask the children what they do to prepare for the snow and how they feel when the snow disappears and the spring begins.
The story in this book is about a very small town that has a snow flurry come though and the postman, farmer, police officer can sense the snow and begin preparing for the weather while the kids play in the snow once it’s come.
From the kids perspective they love the snow because they get to play outside in it and make snowmen.
I did find however that the colors made me feel on edge as I was reading it which made me feel dissonance between the calmness of the literature and the illustrations shown.
For the postman, farmers and policemen the snow meant more clothes to wear while working and putting animals away in the barn.
For the children in the town it meant playing all day outside with friends, building snow houses, snowmen and having snowball fights.
The illustrations are mostly grey and white to show the snow falling but the people and buildings are all colored in very bright colors.
My favorite illustration in the book was the page that it stopped snowing and the stars came out because everything in the picture is either white or grey except two small windows in the building, one yellow and one red.
SUMMARY: This story shows different perspectives and preparations people make as the change in weather for wintertime occurs.
The story opens with a few lines on a blank page talking about the night it began to snow in a town.
After turning the page, the story unfolds to how different individuals prepared for the snow.
THEME: We all prepare for weather or “the storm” differently.
I hope to one day experience a thick blanket of snow like they do in this book and have the ability to prepare like they did.
This story begins with a poem about snow, describing its heavy and gentle effects.
A few of the characters introduced in this story are a postman, a farmer, a policeman and his doting wife, a family of rabbits, and a group of school children.
Each character had a unique connection with how to anticipate the coming of snow in the winter season.
The story comes full circle at the ending as the children watch for the first robin to signal that Spring was on its way.
This book gives great illustrations to help tell to the story in a creative way.
New York: Lothrop, Lee & Shepard Co.White Snow Bright Snow written by Alvin Tresselt is about the day before, the day of, and the day after a snow day.
The book is written very poetically and the use of adjectives adds to the readers feeling of nostalgia and winter.
Red, white, grey, black, and yellow were the only colors used in the book.
Providing this familiar color provided a sense of relationship, nostalgia, and warmth to me as I read.
The illustrations were not very detailed yet, it contributed to the poetic feel and rhythm of the words in the book.
White Snow, Bright Snow is a story about the first snowfall of the year.
All the adults in town, the farmer and the policeman and his wife, are preparing for the coming winter.
All the children in town are very excited and think the snow is simply delightful, a stark contrast to the burden it appears to put on all the adults in town.
In contrast, once the snow has fallen, the town is bright and lively.
When the snow melts, the brown of the earth shows through, taking with it some of the brightness that had come with the snow, leaving the pages distinctly less magical.
White Snow, Bright Snow is a story about a town that finally has its first snowfall of the year.
The children on the other hand laughed and danced in the snow, and caught snowflakes in their mouths, while the rabbits hide in their warm burrows underground.
For the next few days, it had snowed and snowed; the postman fell, the policeman got sick, and the farmer had to keep re-digging his path.
The children dreamt of gingerbread houses and snowmen, while the rabbits stirred in their burrows.
The children made snowmen and the rabbits hopped around and about.
White Snow Bright Snow is a children’s book depicting of people going through their typical snow day activities. Adults do their usual everyday snow day chores and the children go out and enjoy the snow. For the policemen and his wife, it was making sure the policemen wouldn’t get too sick and he did. The wife took good care of the police officer doing everything possible to make sure he doesn’t get too sick.  I think one of the themes in this book is teaching to have a good relationship with yo
White Snow Bright Snow is a children’s book depicting of people going through their typical snow day activities.
The wife took good care of the police officer doing everything possible to make sure he doesn’t get too sick.
The wife throughout the book was making sure she was prepared for the cold her husband could get from the cold snow.
All of the illustrations in the book did not show the emotion of the people through emotions in the face.
The illustrator did a good job of showing emotion without use of the face.
