https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/547094.I_Am_Legend_and_Other_Stories
Like Lucy, this rating is gonna take some splainin. Unfortunately, I don't have a slide show or any multi-colored pie charts to provide visual assistance on this one, so I will try to splain it as clearly as I can, but I will be using quite a few "i.e." and "e.g." to provide supporting clarification for my commentary given I am performing this review without the safety net of visual aids. Please, do not try this at home. Oh, I've also decided to throw in the occasional word in Spanish...why you
Okay, from the standpoint of pure smile-spreading enjoyment (e.g., while reading, I look down and notice my toes tapping involuntarily to the smooth, jazzy, melodic flow of the narrative), I would probably rate this 3 to 3.5 stars (i.e., there was no visible toe tapping, but I did have the occasional feeling of warmth move through my tummy....though that could've just been the tacos).
Second (Segundo), is the world-building/back-story and Matheson's explanation of both the plague and the “vampires” which I thought was nothing short of EXCELENTE (i.e., magnifico).
Thus for all of the above reasons (motivos), I am giving the book a rating of 4.0 to 4.5 stars despite not always “enjoying” the book as much as I would have liked.
He wrote a Star Trek episode and his short stories and books have been made into a number of films including Duel, Hell House, The Incredible Shrinking Man, Stir of Echoes and Somewhere in Time.
"Mad House" comes closest to evoking the same degree of anger and isolation as I am Legend, very dark and with an almost Kafka-esque absurdist twist at the end.Most notable about my reading the title story, though, was a growing understanding about the vampire / zombie fascination over the past few years.
Matheson summed up that whole sub-genre here: it's all about de-humanization and isolation, a literary Edvard Munch screaming about who we are amidst an outside that we cannot understand nor be a part.
Okay, from a pure “enjoyment” standpoint (e.g., Steve, while reading, looks down and notices his toes tapping involuntarily to the smooth, jazzy flow of the narrative), I would probably go 3 to 3.5 stars (i.e., no toe tapping, but I did have the occassional feeling of warmth in my tummy....though that could have just been the tacos).
Since the entire book is spent lollygagging around with Robby as he provides running jogging walking commentary, it subtracted a bit (for me at least) from the enjoyment of the reading experience.
2. Nowhere on or in this edition did it say that after I Am Legend was a collection of Matheson's other short stories.
The inclusion of short stories with this edition is fine; that didn't bother me.
I kind of flipped through the rest of the book a couple times going, "huh?" before I realized the story was really over.
and other short stories by Richard Matheson." Or something like that.
In short: Great story, but be aware beforehand that it's very short (about 160 pages) and the rest of this edition is other stories!
Very surprisingly, the latest movie version of I am Legend was pretty good, I thought, except for the usual audience-tested fake ending.
I usually mentally discount the last scene of every big budget movie these days, it's the next-to-last scene which is the real ending.
I did enjoy the head of the Statue being hurled into the street in Cloverfield which was a great little apocalyse movie, and one I could imagine Richard Matheson writing.
This book draws upon the same sources and brings in the idea of apocalypse--newly popularized by the nuclear age--to create something which is not altogether as insightful as it is inevitable.Apocalyptic literature was hardly new, whether in a modern vision like Shelley's 'Last Man' or ancient religious eschatology.
Then again, nothing in the book is too self-evident to prevent Matheson from painstakingly explaining it several times.He tells us what his characters are thinking almost constantly, despite the fact that it rarely offers any further insight.
Great book.
Two points I want to make: A) the movie was crap, especially when compared to the book, and B) this is so much more than just a vampire novel.
If you've seen the movie, it won't ruin the book for you as the two are nothing alike.
What takes center stage in the book is Robert Neville's aching loneliness as he confronts the reality that he is destined to live the rest of his life without the hope of human contact or companionship--what's outside his door at night isn't nearly as terrifying as that prospect.
Questions arising out of my reading of this book: 1.
Why have I never read Richard Matheson before?
2. Why did no one ever tell me what an amazing storyteller Matheson is?3.
How does someone channel such elegant prose, and such profound imagination, into a story with so much humanity?4.
Why was I unaware of how incredibly influential Matheson's story has been on multiple genres, from post apocalypse tales, to zombie plagues and vampire ficion?5.
Why did Will Smith and the Hollywood "brain trust" so completely alter the plot and ruin the spirit of the original?6.
Will I ever forget the haunting final words of this incredible story?
Quickly he pushed a metal wagon up and down the silent, dust-thick aisles, the heavy smell of decay setting his teeth on edge, making him breathe through his mouth.”This book was adapted into a 1964 film called “The Last Man on Earth” (the first of several adaptations).
Robert Neville, the protagonist, is indeed “The Last Man on Earth” (as far as he knows), the rest of the planet having turned into vampires.
In both the Omega Man and the Will Smith movies the vampires are replaced entirely.
I was really excited to read I Am Legend and the first 70 pages were astounding, but then it just slowly got less and less enjoyable.
Reading the novel I kept thinking "I've heard this before" but, I realize now that Matheson was probably the first to do it, but now 50 years later others have done it...and better.
If you are interested in this genre I would definitely read the book.
This collection also had several short stories by Matheson and I read a few before giving up.
Matheson was the first, but over the years other people have taken his ideas and improved on them.
A collection of stories.
One novella, I Am Legend, followed by 10 short stories.
A good variety.The stories:1.
I Am Legend ★★★★1954.
Vampire story with a mix of horror and science fiction.2.
Buried Talents ★★★1987.
The Near Departed ★★★1987.
A man plans his wife's funeral.4.
5. Witch War ★★★1951.
6. Dance of the Dead ★★★1954.
Dress of White Silk ★★★1951.
Mad House ★★★1953.
An angry man destroys his marriage, work, and everything around him.9.
The Funeral ★★★1955.
A vampire's funeral.10.
From Shadowed Places ★★★1960.
A cursed man needs a primitive ritual to survive.11.
Person to Person ★★★1989.
When i read this i was not on goodreads so a review now would not do justice, so this is up for a re-read. Matheson is such a good writer and this tale of one man's struggle to preserve the human race and find a way to stop the spread of the hungry beings is short but legendary. There has been quite a few adaptations but most have played with the story and changed some important parts the book is much better.I Am Legend has been adapted to a feature-length film three times (or four, if one incl
Matheson is such a good writer and this tale of one man's struggle to preserve the human race and find a way to stop the spread of the hungry beings is short but legendary.
There has been quite a few adaptations but most have played with the story and changed some important parts the book is much better.I Am Legend has been adapted to a feature-length film three times (or four, if one includes the Direct to Video film I Am Omega, which does not credit Matheson as the source).
http://more2read.com/?review=i-am-legend-by-richard-mathesonThere is a 7 part in depth video interview of Matheson he talks about writing and the movies.
HERE>> http://more2read.com/?p=2026
Bram Stoker’s Dracula first popularized the word 'nosferatu' as a synonym for “vampire,” supposedly gleaning it from Romanian folklore. Popular etymology has ascribed the word to the Greek nosophorus, or “plague carrier.” The association of vampires to various diseases is an integral part of the vampire legend.Matheson’s was the first (?) fictional depiction of vampirism as the result of physiological disease, not supernatural forces. It thus gave an ironic twist to an old pattern: Where vampires once were believed to cause epidemics, here epidemics spawn vampires.
I'm prepared to be burned in effigy for my rating. I just was not a fan of any of these stories. My only reason for faltering is the inspiration that so many modern horror masters have obviously taken from these tales. That's quite apparent. But I just wasn't entertained. Sorry guys!
A landmark book which has influenced countless writers and directors.Click here for the first part of my look at the novel and its various film adaptations: http://bit.ly/2bf7n1qAnd here's my look at Last Man on Earth starring Vincent Price: http://bit.ly/2cxJg3bHere's my look at The Omega Man starring Charlton Heston: http://bit.ly/2dE9m00And, finally, here's my take on I Am Legend starring William Smith: http://bit.ly/2gzlmSU
I don't want to spoil you, but the ending will definitely hit you like a one-two punch.
She manages to survive but her mind is possessed by the Zuni doll and she calls her mother over to visit.
The story ends with her jabbing a knife into the floor in the same motion the Zuni doll uses.
And the other element of horror rests in the fact that the young, sheltered woman is about to walk down the same path.
Another story features a man who goes to the funeral parlor to plan his wife's service and arrangement.
This story comes across like a Greek tragedy.
If it was Stoker that introduced us to the world of the undead blood suckers, it was Matheson who took the genre the next step forward, exploring how the tropes of vampire mythology could be true based on scientific principles of the time.But to categorize "I Am Legend" as just as vampire story is a huge mistake.
Matheson's idea may or may not be scientifically credible in the real world, but they work within the confines of the story and make the entire novella that much richer for it.One of the good things about "I Am Legend" is that the vampires in it are scary monsters, something to be feared and protected against.
I felt for Robert Neville, and I didn’t want it to be over so quickly.Written in the 50’s, this takes place in the future of the late 70’s.
They hunt Neville nightly.
Neville doesn't want to really 'kill' him, since he enjoys the game.
("Come out Neville!" - Cortman's nightly shriek outside the house.)This story scared me.
Being a huge Stephen King fan, I could clearly see how he was influenced by this wonderful author.I only read a few of the other stories, however, I lost interest at this time because I was still thinking about Neville, and I couldn’t concentrate on them.
It is a great story, an in an historical context, it's pretty impressive and important - it was one of the first times (maybe the first time) a medical explanation was given for vampirism - but it feels like it was written in the 1950s, which may not go over very well with some readers.The volume I read contained some of Matheson's other stories, in addition to I Am Legend, which was a pretty quick read at 170 pages.
It is impossible, considering the book was written in 1954, to not see the direct connections between this story and the zombie films of George Romero, or the critically acclaimed comic book work of Steve Niles (30 Days of Night).
It’s an interesting story but has an unfinished feel to it.
The story itself feels a little dated because of Matheson’s future slang (the story taking place in a post WWIII 1997).
If you’re picking this book up mainly for the novel and aren’t too interested in the short stories, at least read this one.
But because of the originality of the narratives, I am rating it a five as it was first published in 1954; and it most likely gave birth to futuristic masters' of horrors.The novel is not as horrific as I thought but more of a personal survival journey of the only man left on earth supposedly.
While during research on vamps, he knew vamps would be scared of crosses; but what would happen if the vampire was a Muslim or Jew and how would they react when faced with the cross, perhaps he/she would still come after you.This novel also has some short stories as well by Matheson.
This book is actually a collection of short stories accompanying 'I Am Legend' or I may have given it 5 stars...maybe.Already being weakened by the tragedy of losing your wife and child, could you then find it within yourself to survive an apocalyptic nightmare?
Forget the movie adaption of this book that starred Will Smith.
I'm not saying the movie was bad, but it was so far outside Matheson's novel that the two barely have any recognizable parallels.
There are only a few vampire novels that I think could surpass or equal 'I Am Legend'.
For example, on page 55 of my edition, right after Neville realizes his vampiric nemesis, Ben Cortman, looks like "malignant Oliver Hardy" and collapses in a fit of laughter the narration, without transition, jumps to Neville driving stakes into unconscious vampires:"He couldn't stop laughing because it was more than laughter; it was release.
Besides the narrative glitches, I also wasn't feeling the ending.
For while I love me some fiery apocalypse (in whatever form it may choose to manifest), it would appear that Matheson and Eliot share a common vision of the end.
I saw the last two prior to reading this book so I had an easy time following the storyline.
So, Stephanie Mayer will have to stick to the old-fashion bite, the original idea concocted by no less than Bram Stoker in 1897.The storytelling of I AM LEGEND is crisp and calm that provides an interesting twist to the horror and danger that the main protagonist Robert Neville was experiencing.
At times, I even felt scarier reading these short stories more than following the travails of Robert Neville of the main story.This is my first book for this year's Halloween.
Okay, you’re a sci-fi or horror fan.
Maybe you are into ‘cult classics.’ Maybe, you just like reading the novels that movies are based on.
If you’re considering this novella, by all means read it.
Matheson does a lot with this story and does it well.
He does everything you could hope for, except create characters you can care about.
Don’t misunderstand, he creates characters you’re quite likely to remember (a form of caring, I suppose) but empathy seems unlikely.
I have to rate this novella highly, largely because the author did so much correctly.
For a novella/short story, there’s little extraneous—little to fault.
I thought this was way better than the movie. It was just creepy picturing these people outside Robert Neville's house night after night trying to entice him to come out. He is legend, but in a completely different way than the movie suggested.
If you've only heard about this story & never actually read it, you're missing a lot.
Blech.I skipped through this a bit since I've read it several times, the last not long ago, & the reader had a habit of whispering which doesn't work well in the car.
I think I got the point, but it was quite weak, if I did."Dress of White Silk"  had way too much performance by the reader.
A good, horrible story with an interesting, subtle build."Mad House" was far, far, far too long & the end was obvious from the first.
The paperback available at my library was a movie tie-in with The Fresh Prince on the cover, however, the second half of the book features nine short stories, including Prey, which those who grew up in the 1970s might recall as a segment of the made-for-TV movie Trilogy of Terror featuring Karen Black and a Zuni fetish doll.I was glad to be finished with this book, and not because I was pissing myself in terror, I'm sad to report, or glad to report, I guess.
Based on my own expectations from The Twilight Zone, I imagined the stories would have more wit.
