https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79697.The_Act_of_Marriage
This is the best book I have ever read (or browsed, or seen) on sex in marriage.
It is very tastefully done with the emphasis on family and our relationship with God. The author is a Catholic and I find his views to be almost entirely in line with my own, as an Latter Day Saint.
He also takes several chapters and explains techniques, as well as why God would want both the man and the woman to be happy and fulfilled by partaking in sex.
(I've read this book a number of times, and recommended it to a few friends who express difficulty in their marriage.)
A book about sex written by an evangelical minister made famous for writing a series on apocalyptic fiction. What’s there not to like? Probably would have liked it better if it had been a book about a fictional minister that had evangelically famous apocalyptic sex, but we can’t have everything in life can we?
I love this book!
I wish I got this book before I got married.
This book helped open my eyes to a whole lot more.
This book explains a lot about God's view and purpose of sex.
What I love about the book is has sections for couples before they get married, the honeymoon night, early years of marriage, the middle years of marriage and the later years of a marriage.
I had to laugh when she told me her soon to be husband couldn't put the book down and took it home with him.
WONDERFUL WONDERFUL BOOK!
Having a commitment to purity and having my closest friends having that commitment as well, I didn't know more than the basics when it came to sex (which for someone not nearing marriage, I think this is healthy).
This book has helped to prepare me to know a little more of what to expect, to help me and my fiancé to have reasonable expectations for this aspect of marriage.
I read the 1970's edition of the book, because that's the one that was on our shelf.
I'm looking forward to reading the updated edition in the future (that's the one my fiancé bought).
Perfect pre wedding gift
Good BookEvery couple should read it.It is not just for christian folk, although Christians may reap more from its benefits.
Never thought I'd read (let alone recommend) a book by LaHaye, but this one is actually rather good.
I think it's very important for people who don't have any concept of spirituality, but I've never had the notion that there was any more important aspect of oneself.There were a few things I disagreed with, but only one part I strongly disagreed with, which was this:In the Q&A chapter, it is asked if the adulterer should tell his/her spouse even if the offender has confessed to God, fully repented, etc.
I was stunned when their recommendation was not to tell the faithful spouse if they've confessed to God, forsaken the sin, cut off all ties with the person you cheated with, and have daily devotional time.
Well despite his deranged views about women basically needing to be kept in the house it was a worthwhile read. Interesting read though still would recommend Tim Keller way before this one. It is straight forward and helpful. Would say that a chapter on kegel was a little much. He is terrible at understanding the bias inherent in his survey and also thinks of himself as a god of counseling whereby his words has fixed every known marital issue in 4 weeks or less.
Dialogue in marriage is important In the bedroom, it is the most important act of Intimacy. The act of growth that two people become one. The very act that we become one instead of two. Marriage a pure love ❤
Dialogue in marriage is important In the bedroom, it is the most important act of Intimacy. The act of growth that two people become one. The very act that we become one instead of two. Marriage a pure love ❤️
Best unfiltered book I've read about sex, marriage, and relationships! Highly recommended for newly weds and or just-to-be wedded couples.
Great for those getting ready for married who haven't had sex before. It is a very thorough book that also explains the place that sexual relations have in a marriage. I found it generally wholesome and uplifting. I would recommend reading before and after the honeymoon because some concepts will go over your head if you've never been sexually active before.
In that regard, it still has plenty of practical relevance for married or engaged Christian couples.
There were a couple of things that troubled me, though.
I know they were countering lots of unnecessary (and unbiblical), pent-up repression, but sometimes they ventured too far in the direction of "your sex life is only fulfilling its God-ordained purpose if it's physically mindblowing"...which I also think is very wrong.Also, the chapter on birth control bugged me slightly.
They emphatically repudiate the rhythm method, but it made me a little sad that they didn't say a word about other "natural" methods (FAM, NFP) that are widely embraced as effective today (especially in Christian circles).
Throughout the book, the author gives examples of situations he has encountered as a pre-marriage counselor and pastor, where couples have come forward with problems involving their sex life.
Pretty much every problem that came up in the book, the author blamed on the wife not being there for he husband, she needed to do better at paying attention to her husband, be more supportive and if their sex life sucked it was her fault.
The only thing this book did do was mention that God should be at the center of your marriage, including your sex life.
If this book were the standard for sex education, I think we would have an almost zero divorce rate as well as overwhelming reduction of crime in our world (as love loss sometimes drives people to do things they wouldn't normally do).
As a divorcee, I find that, with prayer, it has completely freed me from the guilt and negative mind-set that comes with the sin of previous divorce.
I have married couples in mind to whom I would like to recommend this book.
I would jump at the chance to recommend it to couples who are getting married.
I thought the information was very well done.
I liked some of the things talked about or covered that you know no one else would ever tell you or write about, the LaHaye's do.
I did, however, think the language of the book was kind of out dated and comical.
We just don't use a lot of the terms talked about in the book.
I also thought the way that Tim LaHaye writes is very confident.
I found it kind of scary that the author had that much confidence in his idea of sex.Although I like the message.
The beginning of the book had some good ideas and perspective, but I liked the author less and less as I read, and by the end I really didn't care for his opinions, attitudes, or advice.
I suppose that was par for the course for the religious establishment in his time, but in this day and age we know a lot more about mental illness, sexual dysfunction, and sexual "deviancy." He also interpreted statistics in whatever way supported his opinions about what is "normal" and "right." This book could use another update.
Excellent book for a couple in preparation (the last week or so before the wedding) for marriage.
I was hesitant to add this book, because it is about, well, sex .
And I found it helpful and useful.
Because at the heart of it, it's not just about sex.
It's about how a man and a woman relate to one another in the marriage relationship.
It's about meeting one another - woman meeting man in his essence, and man meeting woman the same way, and how they can make it work.
It helped me understand my husband as a man and relate to him in that way.
It really is an amazing book.
I found it more helpful than any other book on relationships I've ever read.
My pastor gave this book to my husband and I as part of premarital counseling.
It's pretty outdated, especially in regards to women, so much that it made it hard to read.
It's definitely a book for a couple that is going into marriage as virgins.
Then it's a must-read.
I'm astounded to see that there is nothing about oral sex, and in the back of the book the authors say "we don't recommend it".
I'm telling you as a married Christian woman, oral sex is absolutely okay and you should definitely explore it!
As a Mormon, I don't think we talk about sex enough, so I'm reviewing this book in case I have any fellow naive Mormon friends out there prepping for the big Act of Marriage. This is a worthwhile read for those who haven't explored the sexual realm yet. It's fairly explicit without being crude and gives some good tips on how to ease into being comfortable with one another. Three stars because even though ol' Tim says it was written in conjunction with his wife, it's very obviously written from a male and patriarchal perspective.
Not at all helpful to a modern and informed Christian wanting to know more, very rigid and obviously primarily written from a male perspective (despite the co-authoring). It also skipped huge factual areas - for example, only mentioning the rhythm method but not mentioning the much more accurate Natural Family Planning.If you aren't already married, don't know anything about the biological aspects and are from a more sheltered or withdrawn Christian community you might find it useful, otherwise give this one a miss.
This review is geared purely toward others preparing for upcoming marriage. It was first recommended to me by leaders of my church, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. The author, however, is a pastor of some other Christian church and wrote it with his wifes help. 4 stars cuz it was very informative and stuck to good Christian values dealing with the subject, not biased or supportive of a 'free-love' mindset. I suppose it also has much to do with my general comparison of it with other books I only perused on the subject.
Wow...Tim LaHaye writing advice on marriage. It ought to be enough to give one the shivers. In actuality, this book is full of really good, practical married sex information. Skip the first few chapters. They're entirely about how women really just want to keep house and have babies. But once you get past the Lahaye's manifesto, there is some wonderfully researched practical and scientific information.
I would definitely suggest this book for any married couple. I think there's too much information for engaged couples, but nevertheless, it has information on anything you can think of, I think, when it comes to being newly married. But word of caution, it doesn't beat around the bush - it tells it like it is. And for those naive souls like me who haven't heard much, it's a lot to soak in and understand.
I liked it. I liked it because of the way the authors authoritative voice wove back and forth between scripture and medical jargon. There were some gaps for me that this book cleared up. It was written in 1976 and although sex hasn't changed since then what we know about it does. Some parts I found "preachy" mostly from having been written so long ago. Over all a good read as I study about marriage.
Ok - I know this is weird to put on my list but this is truly a great book. It is written by a Christian author who tells things the way they are. I am "Miss Nieve" in a big way and this opened my eyes to what was to come. I read it about a week before getting married and have had a couple friends read it after 10 or 20 years of marriage and still learn something. We have given this to many of our engaged, newlywed and long-time married friends. A good book all the way around.
Man, do I wish I would've read this before I got married,and every year since. A christian perspective, that is actually really good, on intimacy in marriage. Reasons why it is great, tips on how to make it better, and explanations and helps to get over common misconceptions. So grateful for the recommendation.
This book was very helpful. I recommend it to engaged couples and to ALL married couples. It helped me understand the different needs that a wife and a husband need. It also helped Ted and I become comfortable with discussing intimacy, something that may have been difficult without the help of this book. It was fantastic.
This book was recommended to me and my husband before we got married. We thought it was such a great book and handled all major topics dealing with intimacy, and in such a respectful way. This book is written by Christian husband and wife authors. We give it as bridal shower gifts to close family and friends. I think every couple should have a copy.
