https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15796.Charms_for_the_Easy_Life
The narrator, Margaret Birch, tells of her mother, Sophia, her grandmother, Charlie Kate, her no-good father, her failed grandfather and a broad cast of characters that inhabit the southern towns of her upbringing.
Sophia is not quite the legend that Charlie Kate is, but she does well enough, surviving a bad, impulsive marriage to make a life and raise her daughter, the narrator, Margaret.
Gibbons breathes life into her characters, and is able to structure a plot.
However, I found the male characters thin, which I suppose is understandable in a novel that has such a focus on women.
Two lovely ideas from this book:The grandmother, when she's young, gets this lucky charm, that's supposed to bring her an easy life.
Her husband leaves her, tries to con her, she works as a doctor in the early 1900's when infection and poverty are rampant--but she is blessed with a wonderful daughter and granddaughter---they're all three smart, good-looking, admirable, love each other deeply and admired.The grandmother gives the charm to her granddaughter (fully believing in its worth as a lucky charm) as a gift to her granddaughter's future husband and tells her to tell him "It's a charm for an easy life.
Set in North Carolina during WWII it tells the story of three generations of unconventional Southern women: Charlie Kate, Sophia her daughter, and Margaret her granddaughter...the narrator.
Margaret's love and admiration for her grandmother shines through the book.My problems with the book: Is there a plot?
It is mainly just anecdotes of the amazing Charlie Kate...the only fully developed character in the book.
Problem #2: What was with all of the suicides at the start of the book...they had no relevance to the rest of the book...they were just weird and intriguing.
Problem #3: Margaret, our narrator, was an absolute bore.
Charms for the Easy Life is a mesmerizing fictional biography/autobiography of three generations of women living unconventional lives in North Carolina against the backdrop of the World Wars.
The book revolves around the life of the narrator's grandmother, a self-taught healer who appears to lead a bit of a charmed life.
Her life is not "charmed" in any sort of mystical sense, it's more like she is so self-possessed that a comparatively uncertain world bends itself to her will.I enjoyed the glimpses of history that are presented in the book - the folklore, competition for rations, and descriptions of trends in fashion and culture.
Alice Hoffman, whose writing and stories I find have the same lovely intelligent but easygoing prose as Gibbons', writes that the novel 'is filled with lively humour, compassion and intimacy'.Charms for the Easy Life tells the story of three generations of 'fiery' women, living without men: Charlie Kate Birch, a 'self-proclaimed doctor who treats everything from leprosy to lovesickness with her roots and herbs', her daughter Sophia, 'who has inherited her mother's wisdom and will and applies them to her desire to rule the world around her and land the man of her choice', and granddaughter Margaret, 'whose struggle towards adulthood is complicated by World War II'.
She just has one of those voices that speaks to me from somewhere out of my ancestral southern past, I guess.
They are all women's stories, and stories of adversity, with a southern flavor that is so familiar to me, it truly seems to call out from my own distant past.
They are American stories that seem to resonate with many people other than myself, so there must be more to it than the pale blue eyes of my great grandmother and her twin, that seem to look out at me from the pages and their voices that whisper as these stories progress.I love her.
The constant center of attention is the narrator's grandmother, formidable Charlie Kate Birch, healer of sicknesses and straightener-out of minds; we are told over and over how everyone respects her after she contradicts them, how she sees people not treating each other right and gives them a piece of her mind; except for her husband leaving her, she is very nearly invincible, and her victories are always easy.
She is shadowed by the narrator, her meek granddaughter Margaret, who never does anything except what Charlie Kate says, never wants anything but what the matriarch wants, and is totally convinced that her life will be arranged for her: and lo, an absolutely perfect husband turns up out of the blue, and the courtship goes without a hitch with the grandmother directing it.
"I have read two books a week for thirty years.
I am satisfied that I know everything." So says Charlie Kate Birch, and she's not shy about sharing her knowledge, whether you want to hear it or not.
For example, when her mother Sophia asks God for help in a hurry, Margaret notes: "He no doubt knocked Himself out getting to her, as she was such a trophy among his creations."This is a quaint, charming, and at times hilarious story.
I really liked the portrayal of these three highly intelligent, book-loving Southern women.
Like a magnet, her character attracts people to her, and whether she is truly right or wrong in her unlicensed medical practices, she generally always prospers.
The one inconsistency I find is that the narrator (Charlie Kate's granddaughter) spends the entire novel praising and admiring her grandmother's courage, strong will and independence, and in the end decides her own future merely by asking Charlie Kate's opinion and meekly following through on it.
It was a very enjoyable read, and as comforting as sitting in the kitchen while a storyteller spins colorful tales, but I ended wondering what the overall point was.
I went 5 minutes beyond my self-imposed minimum 20 minutes (for audiobooks) before DNFing. That was 25 minutes of exposition as the main character explains her family's backstory, and we had only gotten as far as her mother's childhood. Yawn.Audiobook version, borrowed from my local public library via Overdrive. Kate Fleming's performance was fine. I think she did her best with the material she had to work with.
Even when you don't realize it, you're turning the characters and the tale over and around, looking at it this way and that, surprising yourself with revelations that were not plainly made and spoon-fed to you, but were put there for you to find over time, like secret presents under your pillow, by the author.Kaye Gibbons writes like that.And maybe it's because I live right square in the middle of where the story takes place and I know the roads, the towns, the people that she writes about, that I take a certain possessiveness of them.
"Charms for the Easy Life" tells the story of three women--mother, daughter, and granddaughter--living in the rural farmlands of Eastern North Carolina in the interlude between world wars.
The story is, in turns, odd and funny and heartwarming and maddening in its telling, but Life is all those things as well.
I wasn't sure what to expect from this book, but I was pleasantly surprised. I really liked Margaret, the story she told, and the way it was written, and her grandmother was just fantastic.
I should write a review on this, but I am too lazy. I loved it though. So much so that I turned back to page 1 and started over right after finishing. This was better than Ellen Foster and that was pretty good.
I enjoyed every word and I love picking up historical tidbits. One was that Duke University outlawed jitterbugging during the early forties, not for moral reasons, but because too many students were ending up in the infirmary with dislocated shoulders.
Lovely, easygoing book. Hated to see it end.
What a woman!
Never back down; never settle for just any man; never give in to pressure; and always believe your decisions are right were her guiding principles, and the ones she tried to instill in her daughter and granddaughter.
I couldn't stop reading about this turn of the century self-taught healer, midwife, surgeon; and every page rewarded me with some new eye-opening reason to be in awe of Charlie Kate.
She guided the lives of her daughter and granddaughter firmly, only letting up when she felt they were on their right tracks.
What makes this book such a gem, other than Gibbons' masterful pen, is that the characters are exquisitely present in their lives.
Charlie Kate, Sophia and Margaret - each is living the life they want to live.
- not terribly complicated lives, but luxuriously meaningful and purposeful lives.
I did not want the story to end.
(I want to hear from grandmother every day!) I'm going to read it again just so I can jot down some of grandmother's wittiest and most dazzling observations.
The book is a hoot from start to finish, but it is much, much more than just funny.
It makes you look back.
This book is just captivating. It has been on my to-read list a very long time and I now I look forward to reading more by Kaye Gibbons. This story surrounds the lives of a grandmother, her daughter, and her granddaughter. Each was fascinating in their day-to-day lives and the dynamics of their family was humorous and heartwarming.I loved the quote on the back from Time Magazine: "Graceful and spirited....As invigorating as sarsaparilla and as soothing as lemon-balm tea."
I really liked this author. I love the tone she uses in telling her story. The characters are warm and dimensional and quirky. The author also has a wonderful sense of humor. She tells the story of three generations of women at the turn of the century up until about 1945. They are intelligent and feisty and the theme of country doctor/herbalist is fascinating. Truly charming. I will definitely read more from this author.
This book was on a reading list that I'm trying to get through, so that is how this came in to my radar. It was a pleasant little read. I haven't read this author before, and found myself enjoying the character development, especially Grandma. I think the author nailed some of the sticky family dynamics. Some of this was a little cliche, but it was a sweet story.
There's not one thing Kaye Gibbons has written that I didn't love. I read this book years ago, yet re-reading seemed just as fresh and new as before. You can't help but love all three of the women in this story - particularly the grandmother who was plain spoken, sharp witted, and a total riot. She's the relative every family has, the one person who minces no words, and commands respect even when she insults you up one side and down the other.
I loved how this book was written and found myself looking forward to reading it each night. I loved the female bonds and struggles it shared in a 3 generation family. It was a quick read that made me smile with its humor.
Amazing women proving that strength can look like many different things. Charlie Kate is the kind of grandmother I wish I grew up with - intelligent, street smart, irreverent, unafraid and unabashedly herself.
This book is my new favorite read of the year. I'm happy to have finally read something by Ms. Gibbons and am excited to get my hands on more.
Enjoyable story of three generations of strong southern women, who made a difference in so many others lives with their healing and wisdom. Margaret's story made me think of a butterfly slowly emerging from its cocoon!
I remembered loving this book the first time I read it several years ago but had forgotten just how wonderful and fun it was until I listened to it again. The reader for the audiobook really brought the characters to life for me. I hope I don’t have reason to ‘purge’ at the end of my life.
This book was a surprise--a very pleasant one.
But this book is actually much more than that.
It's a coming of age story but also the story of a remarkable woman who is determined destroy, whenever possible, every kind of cultural nonsense, stupidity, and prejudice.
And that really is the greatest strength of this book: the dialogue.
The dialogue, the conversations these women have with others, with each other and within themselves---this is the compelling surprise of this novel.
One can't help but feel each of the women's unique combination of intelligence, iron-willed determination, and blind hope--feel it and admire it.
It takes place mostly in the 1940's around the time of WW2 and is told from the perspective of Margaret the daughter/granddaughter of this female three generation household.
There is a TV film that was loosely based on the book.
I do still enjoy the film and the few ways it is able to bring the book to life.
However, to experience the true and complete world that Kaye Gibbons, and her absolutely amazing character "Charly Kate", creates reading the novel is the only way to go.
Carolina 1900-19462) The strong female characters - Charlie Kate, her daughter, Sophia, and grandaughter, Margaret3) romance - this wasn't the main focus of the book, the men definitely take a backseat in this novel, but there is a little romance and (thank goodness) it's not sappy :)4) the author's writing style - I wasn't sure if I liked it at first, but once I got into it I liked it.There are only a couple of little nit-picky things that I didn't like about it.
The other thing that was unrealistic was the grandmother, Charlie Kate, she never made a mistake.
What seemed like a simple story of three generations in a family of southern women speaks of the connectivity between generations that families sometimes have.
I like to think that for those of us who have been fortunate enough to have had strong role models and who have benefitted from their wisdom and folly, Kaye Gibbons' story strikes a chord within us.
This nicely written and engaging story did my heart some good and I would recommend it highly as a truly good read.
