https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1795353.Minoes
Unfortunately, until now Schmidt’s work has not been published in the English language, so she is not well known in the U.S. That may change with the 2016 publication of her 1970 book, The Cat Who Came In off the Roof (Dutch title: “Minoes”), translated by David Colmer.Tibble, a painfully shy reporter, is on the verge of losing his job with the Killenthorn Courier newspaper: his editor is tired of his articles about cats (“there’s never any news in them!”).
www.melissa413readsalot.blogspot.comI thought this was a delightful read and would recommend to anyone that has kids or just loves to read children's books such as I do :) Poor Mr. Tibble works for the Killenthorn Courier and his boss has told him he will be fired if he doesn't go out and get real stories.
He's too shy to go around talking to people and finding stories for the paper.
That same night he is pacing his attic apartment talking to his cat Fluff about being fired if he can't come up with something.
Unpopular opinion here, but I didn't really care for this book.
I was a nanny for many years and I have read my fair share of children's books.
What I have come to learn is that just because a book is for children doesn't mean it has to be overly simple or lazy.
Unfortunately I found this book to be just that.
The writing was very stilted and while the plot had potential I found it to be rather boring.
What good fortune that Delacorte Books for Young Readers chose to reissue Annie M.G. Schmidt’s The Cat Who Came in off the Roof, a charming tale of a timid newspaper reporter and the clever but mysterious woman who comes to his rescue!
In danger of losing his job for typing out nothing but stories about cats, the excruciatingly shy Mr. Tibble has been directed to get past his reluctance to interview folks and bring home some real news to the Killenthorn Courier, the town’s newspaper.
When Tibble is almost fired from his job for only writing about cats, his boss gives him one more chance.
Minou is still able to communicate with cats.
He is now able to write breaking news stories, thus keeping his job.
Minou is also given the opportunity to turn back into a cat and must decide if she wants to change back or stay a human being.A cute book with talking cats!
Throughout the story Tibble is trying to get Minou to become less "catish" but he eventually accepts her for what she is.
Wederom een schitterend pareltje van Annie M.G. Schmidt over een poes die een mens word en een reporter die door de tips van de mens geworden kat hele goede artikelen begint te schrijven. Deze reporter woont in en dat geeft een paar hillarische scenes. De dochter des huizes speelt hierin ook een rol. Natuurlijk wordt de reporter verliefd op de mens geworden kat. En heeft dat een toekomst? Lees het zelf in dit leuke boek. Zeker ook een boek om voor te lezen maar natuurlijk kan de jeugd vanaf ik denk 8 jaar het zelf ook lezen.
My first dutch. It was fun but I would say I only understood, like, 20 percent? I enjoyed it nevertheless.
Bij tweede lezingDe verlegen journalist Tibbe krijgt een juffrouw inwonen, Minoes, die vroeger kat is geweest en zich nog steeds vaak als kat gedraagt.
En weer een heerlijk boek, waarvan het eind zo verrekte jammer is dat je het uithebt, zeker als je er maar een paar uur eerder aan was begonnen.
Zowel de lieve 'katse' hoofdpersoon als het boek zijn om te zoenen.Bij vierde lezingNa het zien van een stukje van de film is de wil weer zeer groot om dit magistrale kinderboek nog eens te lezen.
Ik lees Minoes voor de vierde keer in acht jaar en het is nog steeds ongekend genieten.
He thought, Oh, I know my girlfriend loves books, so I'm gonna buy her one.
But he knows that I read so much, that he's afraid I will have already read the book he'll choose.
He goes to the children's section and buys the book he think I'll love most.
This is a translated children's book about a shy reporter (didn't know those existed) who loves cats, and meets a cat who was turned into a human.
I am not sure if this is not the best example of her work, or if the translation is not the best that it could be, because although it was a pleasant read, it was just that, pleasant.The story is of Minou, the former cat, and the human that takes her in Mr. Tibbles, who writes for the local town newspaper.
He only wants to write about cats, because he is so shy, and since Minou can talk to cats, and the cats want to help him, they feed him news stories, which works out better than writing about cats.As I said, there is nothing wrong with the book, and it is cute, but It isn't likely something I would reread, as I would the Moomin books, or E.
Een poes die een mens wordt. Dat komt uit de fantasie van Annie M.G. Schmidt. Het boek was voor mij jeugdsentiment. Voor mijn kinderen is dat nu. En de film Minoes wordt bij ons ook regelmatig bekeken.
Tibble!"Premise/plot: Don't mistake Tibble for a cat; he's a very human reporter for a newspaper.
The premise of this one: Minou used to be a cat; now she's a human.
She can still communicate with cats--hence why Tibble is suddenly good at his job.
All the cats in town are talking to Minou about their humans, what they see and hear.My thoughts: The Cat Who Came In Off the Roof is newly translated into English; it was originally published in Dutch in 1970.
But overall I liked it.Tibbles meets Minou when she "came in off the roof" and into his window.
If Minou were still a cat, it wouldn't be odd that he takes in a stray.
saya pernah nonton film "Didier", filmnya Alain Chabat di mana dalam semalam seekor anjing yang dititipkan pada seorang pencari bakat olahraga berubah menjadi sesosok pria.
Ya, secara dadakan, siluman anjing yang tak bisa bicara bahasa manusia itu pun diajari jadi pemain sepakbola...
Dia bingung, sebagai kucing rumahan berbulu oranye, kok dia bisa berubah jadi gadis muda?
Tapi Minoes punya jasa besar bersama kucing2 di kota (favorit saya si Kucing Sekolah yang sotoy karena demen nongkrong di jendela kelas saat pelajaran sejarah!)...
Very cute! Full review to come.
Karena diusir oleh keluarganya, Minoes pun terpaksa pergi dari rumah dan hidup di jalanan hingga mendapatkan tempat tinggal.Adapun orang yang berbaik hati menurunkan Minoes dari pohon adalah seorang (kali ini bukan seekor ;p) lelaki muda yang sangat pemalu bernama Tibbe yang bekerja sebagai wartawan.
Minoes masuk ke rumahnya melalui atap, Minoes mengorek-ngorek tempat sampah untuk mengambil tulang ikan, Minoes menjilat bersih jarinya setelah makan, Minoes mendengkur seperti kucing, Minoes menyorongkan kepalanya ke arah Tibbe seolah minta dibelai, dan yang paling penting, Minoes bisa bercakap-cakap dengan kucing!!Tibbe tentu saja menganggap gadis itu sudah gila.
Обычно я не вписываю сюда книги, которые читала Лизе, но эта уж больно понравилась (впрочем, я не помню у Анни М.Г. Шмидт ни одной неудачной книги).
That "bit" turned out to be around twenty something pages in the end, I was waiting for my fiancé to come with the train and since it was cold I stood there in the bookstore reading away about Miss Minou and Mr. Tibble.
It is so unusual to be able to give voice to a cat, I imagine the cat I used to have would have a similar way of speaking to the ones in the book, not as Miss Minou, but maybe as the Metropole cat.A lovely, one day, read.
G. Schmidt is very clever at showing what makes cats different from humans by showing a human doing these things and having people (and cats) think that is a bit weird.
The way Minou does both human things and cat things works really well because it means she can talk to cats to find out news for Mr Tibble and she can also talk to humans.
I wanted everything to work out in the end for Minou and Mr Tibble because they were both very nice and I would like to meet them.Overall I thought this book was awesome, interesting, exhilarating, fun and it make me think harder about what cats are like!
Untuk daftar pemenang Zilveren Griffel lainnya dapat dilihat di http://www.librarything.com/bookaward....
Profilnya dapat dilihat pada http://lambiek.net/artists/h/hollande...Kisahnya tentang Juffrouw Minoes, gadis yang dulunya kucing.
Walau sudah menjadi manusia, Minoes masih melakukan beberapa kebiasaan kucingnya, termasuk memanjat, saling menempelkan hidung dengan kucing lain, dan bernasib sial dikejar anjing.
Banyak akal yang dilakukan Minoes untuk membantu Tibbe, sampai-sampai ia membentuk Kantor Berita Kucing.
Bila ada waktu senggang, mereka pun menyanyikan mars kucing Meong-Meong sembari dilempari botol kaca oleh penduduk sekitar.Kisah anak ini diterjemahkan dengan baik oleh Indira Ismail dari Gramedia Pustaka Utama, sehingga ceritanya mengalir dan enak dibaca.
Sebagai kisah fantasi anak, cerita ini pun berakhir dengan bahagia.
I was excited to see this released in the U.S. after the movie adaptations, Miss Minoes, has been so popular at my library (I had to order a fresh copy as it circulated so much!).
Miss Minou is having her own problems--she used to be a cat but after eating something out of an Institute's rubbish bin, she finds herself transformed into a human and kicked out of her house by her own sister.
Fortunately, Killenthorn is full of cats and Miss Minou finds a place to stay with Mr. Tibble.
Whereas Tibble has a tough time tracking down a story, this woman—Minou—has no trouble finding things out.
In exchange for a place to crash while she figures out how to become a cat again herself, Minou becomes Tibble’s secretary, serving up story leads to Tibble and saving his job.
It’s wonderfully absurd in the way of many classic books for kids, and there are some very funny moments with Minou behaving like the cat she used to be.
Fun book to share with a kid who enjoys cats!
And I think childrens fiction writers should read this and take note: WARNING RANT TO FOLLOWThis is a book about two adults and a network of cats.
Instead, this is a coming of age story for one Mr. Tibble and a story of what it means to have a home for one Miss Minou.
Mr. Tibble is a bit of a coward and must learn to overcome that when he sees a situation that requires him to be brave.
Some of the adults in this story are terrible, and some are really quite good.
Princess Fuzzypants here:We just finished reading the most delightful book.
It is a children's book but it can be enjoyed by grown ups too and other animals.Tibble is a very shy man who is in danger of losing his job as a reporter if he is unable to find real news stories rather than just writing about cats.
The cats tell Minou who then tells Tibble.
All goes swimmingly until Tibble reports a sensational story that everyone doubts until the evidence proves him right.There are wonderful kitty characters who weave throughout the tale.
This wonderful tale about a cat turned human is one of mutual friendship, caring, and kindness. Miss Minou, formerly cat, now human, still has a healthy fear of dogs, and finds herself up a tree. Mr. Tibble, reporter, helps her down, and thus begins an enduring and endearing friendship. Minou helps Tibble gather news stories so he can keep his job as a reporter, and in turn Tibble gives Minou a place to stay while she adapts – sort of – to being human. There is a bad man in this village, and th
This wonderful tale about a cat turned human is one of mutual friendship, caring, and kindness.
Mr. Tibble, reporter, helps her down, and thus begins an enduring and endearing friendship.
Minou helps Tibble gather news stories so he can keep his job as a reporter, and in turn Tibble gives Minou a place to stay while she adapts – sort of – to being human.
Though now human, Miss Minou can still converse with cats, and Mr. Tibble is only too glad to listen to what Minou has to say.
THE CAT WHO CAME IN OFF THE ROOF by Annie Schmidt is a sweet middle-grade fantasy featuring a shy newspaper reporter and the mysterious cat lady he befriends.When Tibble is told that he writes too many articles about cats, he sets out to find more news-worthy stories.
However not everyone is happy when they uncover a story about a corrupt businessman.Originally published in the 70s, this Dutch classic has been translated for a new generation of young readers.Librarians will find an audience for this book among the many children who enjoy cat stories, light humor, fantasy, and a hint of mystery.To learn more about this author, go to http://www.annie-mg.com/.Published by Delacorte, an imprint of Random House on January 19, 2016.
Troszkę moi chłopcy (9,5 i 11 lat) już wyrośli, ale gorąco polecam wszystkim fanom i fankom kotów w wieku 4-9. Zabawna i wciągająca :-)
This is one of those children’s books that I really think will appeal more to adults.
It did not feel like it had a lot of child appeal, though then I read about the author and discovered this is a translation of a 1970 title by a famous Dutch children’s book author.
So perhaps that is why it feels so unique.
Mr. Tibble is a not-very-successful newspaper reporter until one night be rescues an odd woman named Miss Minou who has some very cat-like attributes.
It’s almost as if she is a cat herself!
A delightful little book with talking cats!
I was more than halfway through when I became curious about the book's origins, that was when I realized it was translated from Dutch.
It has an older feel to the cadence and the vocabulary, but the plot is still relevant and interesting today.
There is a little bit of mystery, quest for the truth, a cat-like lady, and a whole host of cat characters.
I think this would be a nice family read-aloud (especially for a family with cats :)) Early chapter book readers who like animal stories or more or less realistic fiction would enjoy this.
This was a cute, whimsical story; although I don't know how much it will appeal to Middle Grade readers because it is 98% about the adult characters adulting with their jobs, rent, commitee meetings, etc.
The little girl who is MG age skips in and out of the story much too briefly each time.
The book is also pretty mundane (but cute) for the first 75%.
I was approved for an eARC, via Netgalley, in return for an honest review.
I will not be reviewing this title on my blog because it is less than four stars.
Funny middle-grade tale about a young woman, formerly a cat, who retains many cattish ways. She helps a young newspaper reporter with information she gets from the town's cats. In the last chapter, the famous Dutch children's author, Annie M. G. Schmidt, ties all the threads together and creates a warm, satisfying ending, masterful storytelling! (I recommend this delightful book not only for children but also for adults who love cats.)
