https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1192936.The_Epic_of_America
While Adams' prose is easily read and he coined the term "the American Dream" in this book, it is a classic example of revisionist history. Adams served on the staff of Woodrow Wilson who may be the worst president in American history although our current president is giving him a run for his money.
This is what a history book ought to be.In school we were taught all the names and dates that make up an important part of American history.
What we missed out on is the story, the adventure of forming a nation.I bought the 1931 edition on Amazon because I wanted to read about the idea of the American Dream.
The phrase comes up often in books by Hunter S.
Thomspson.
I was surprised to learn that the term has a specific origin and a short history.
The phrase comes up frequently but isn't defined until the end of the book.
Wow. Adams takes the reader on a broad, birds-eye view of the history of America up until the date of publishing, 1931.
Rather than being caught up in details, the author looks at causes, sentiment, feelings and the products of events.
With delightfully witty and passionate prose and a genuine desire to see his nation pull itself out of the mire of World War One and to become great once more, Adams touches on timeless truths and outlines a path back to 'The American Dream'.
An amazing book that shows how the words of Solomon are true - 'There is nothing new under the sun.'
Amazing insight into the American idea of 'bigger is better' and how, with the rise of corporations in the 1840s, bribery and corruption became the American way. How both economic and political power played into the hands of a few very wealthy people, and effectively ended any real prospect of making the 'American Dream' a reality. A must read for anyone who wants to understand the reality of America.
I put 4 stars on this book because I think it gave me a little different perspective on U.S. history than what I got in grade school and high school.
The reasoning for getting into World war I was interesting, and if I read and understood it correctly, it had more to do with economics than the sinking of the Lusitania.
I was also surprised to read that some of the same things people say today were complaints through a lot of our history.
Cars were starting to become something which lots of people were starting to own.
adfasf
"It is a difficult dream for the European upper classes to interpret adequately, and too many of us ourselves have grown weary and mistrustful of it" -404"It has been a dream of being able to grow to fullest development as man and woman, unhampered by the barriers which had slowly been erected in older civilizations, unrepressed by social orders which had developed for the benefit of classes rather than for the simple human being of any and every class" -405
