https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/61554.Conjectures_and_Refutations
In my final years of high-school, I encountered Popper's theory of the process of 'Conjectures and Refutations' when studying the epistemology of science, and subsequently referenced his work in an essay - yet my understanding of it at the time was highly superficial.When writing my final year dissertation at university, in Biology, I found myself mining through scientific literature and trying to place the experiment in its wider context.
I went to the library and picked up the book, which I read over the course of almost five months during which I was writing the dissertation.It's a remarkably uplifting read that I'd recommend to any scientist, for it draws the scientific method back to its philosophical origins - those of traditionalism, empiricism, probability, falsifiability, and verification.
Popper is a point of required passage for all those which are interested in sciences.
But the originality is that the method Popper bracket with other sectors and particularly with the policy.Classically we defined a science in a positive way.
We will imagine experiments to prove that this théory is false.For exemple, the proposal is “all the swans are white”.
If I adopt Popper's method, I will seek to refute this assertion.
The psychanalysis is not refutable, this is not a science.The following point is the problem of the objectivity.
what is the book all about?it discusses epistemology(philosophy of knowledge), philosophy of science

THREE VIEWS OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE (Essentialism, Instrumentalism, Fallible Conjecture/Fallibilism)Galileo was followed by hundreds of years as the church gradually accepted, then twisted natural philosophy into an instrumentalist view of science (science as an instrument only to make accurate observations based on hypothesis/tricks that say nothing on the true description of the real world).
Instrumentalism = scientific theories are merely instruments to build better and better instruments for predicting observations and relationships, but say nothing about ultimate truth and not the physical systems of our reality.But whether science is descriptive (of essential truths) or instrumental is a psuedo-problem.
Brilliant writer - very dense, intellectually complicated, and takes a long time to read.
Popper's primary argument is that science is not developed through carefully thought-out hypotheses, but by essentially random attempts at figuring things out (conjectures) and then attempts that prove them wrong (refutations).He also argues that, basically, nothing can be scientifically proved - there's no such thing as a law, only a hypothesis.
A hypothesis cannot be proved with a thousand supporting examples, but can be disproved by a single contrary example.
Those areas that do not work like this (psychology, etc.) are not sciences but pseudo-sciences.Overall, great book but extremely philosophical and intellectual.
This book is a classic of twentieth century epistemology and the philosophy of science and must-read for anyone interested in those subjects.
I also recommend this book for anyone interested in the development of knowledge as well as social justice within a democratic setting.
This book is difficult in parts and assumes a great deal of prior experience with logic as a philosophical discipline as well as with the philosophy of science.
It is, however, well worth the challenge even for those who are new to these subjects.
One of the most challenging ideas from this book is to convince the general society to acknowledge that no amount of 'confirmative evidence' can validate a theory to the same extend as how one counter-example could invalidate a theory once and for all.
We are socially conditioned not to rock the boat (argue and criticize), to trust the viewpoints of experts/elders/authority, and we are told that we have to prove our case with evidence or testimony from a trust-worthy source.
Popper proposed that it is only through criticism and attempts to 'disprove' others' claims that drive the progress of knowledge.
Popper skriver engasjerende og klart uten å forenkle.
Boken gir god innsikt i hypotesetisk-deduktiv metode samtidig som den spenner over svært mange forskjellige filosofiske tema.
Dessverre er den ganske repetitiv og til tider for omstendelig.
Det kan av og til virke som han slår inn åpne dører (anti-kommunisme og anti-dialektikk), men med tanke på at første utgave ble gitt ut i 1963 kan det også bety at slagene er vunnet i etterkant.
Jeg liker at Popper er ærlig, litt frekk og veldig direkte.
En svak fire stjerner, men pluss for morsomme ligninger og fotnoter.
Conjectures and Refutations (1963) is Karl Popper's extension of his original work The Logic of Scientific Discovery (1934; English version published in 1956).
Newton and Darwin offered grand syntheses of (up to that point) loose strands of science; Galilei and Pasteur singled out specific problems, tried to offer interesting new theories and tried to test them with experiments and observations.
I do think that for some who is new to Popper's philosophy (or to philosophy in general), Conjectures and Refutations can be a better start than his original work The Logic of Scientific Discovery.
Cut to the chase, easy to read book
The overwhelming power of falsification, and reminiscent of Hegelian dialectics
He's perfectly aware that theories aren't simply tested on their own -- when an experiment is surprising, we typically have a choice about which of our beliefs to reject -- (including the belief that we did the experiment correctly!) His point rather is that we *ought* to set up our experiments to be as clear and unambiguous as possible so that we can make the most reliable decision about which belief to reject.There is one point where I think Kuhn's criticism is telling.
The most important lesson that I got from it is that a good scientific theory is very specific and seeks falsification.
Observations in the real world easily confirm these theories, but Popper suggests that a good scientific theory MUST run the risk of falsification and should not be sought to be confirmed but be refuted instead.
It seems to be that it is always the real world that conforms to such beliefs, and not the other way around, but that can't be scientific.
In fact, it is the hypothesis that actively seeks to observe and experiment, and not the other way around.
He works hard to clarify all his ideas even more, or to present them from a new perspective, which is very much appreciated as a major help in digesting his occasionally difficult and technical thought.There's a lot of overlap in the pieces, as Popper mentions in the introduction, so that each portion can be read as self-contained.
LP has been dead for some time, and Popper should be commended for helping to bring its death, but it's old news.Some of his political and social philosophy towards the end seems just a bit too optimistic, as well.
"The biggest problem with Popper is that he is far from the greatest writer ever.
It is far and away the best written thing in the volume and funny, which is a real surprise.
I think we have two very different ideas of the subject: he seems to focus exclusively on Jaspers, Sartre, Heidegger and Nietzsche (though he only mentions Jaspers), whereas I prefer the more pragmatic and practical and realistic folks, Camus, Arrendt, Ortega y Gasset.
I think Popper wouldn't have so many issues with them, had he read them.
But then he was writing in his second (or third?) language..."
Karl Popper is one of those philosophers for whom the reading is more a direct challenge to my own beliefs than an attempt to refine my current way of thinking.
I should start by saying that Conjectures and Refutations is an uncommonly well-written book, and should if nothing else serve as a style guide for how to write engaging philosophy.
And I should add that Popper's thesis of falsification, while it needed and continues to need refinement to give an accurate portrayal of what scientific knowledge is and how it is determined, was an absolute quantum leap in terms of epistemology and deserves praise.
Review ini biang, "A hypothesis cannot be proved with a thousand supporting examples, but can be disproved by a single contrary example. Those areas that do not work like this (psychology, etc.) are not sciences but pseudo-sciences."Ada nuansa rivalitas metodologis antara science dan non-science kah? he he he menggelitik ke-Feyerabend-an saya.
Popper is brilliant. He's a terrific writer - his thoughts are original, yet is prose is clear and straightforward. With the exception of one or two boring essays, this collection is the shit. Check it out
Fascinating and very challenging. If you haven't read his Logic of Scientific Discovery, you should read that one first, as he refers back to it frequently. Consider this a major extension of that previous work.
The best philosophical treatise I've read. Before reading it, I had always been under the assumption that Pooper was "boring" at best. But upon reading, I realize he's only "boring" because he's "right".
Admittedly I only read a few of the essays at the start, but enjoyable reading. His writing style is not so difficult as many philosophy texts with each chapter (after intro) being potentially stand alone and written in the style of a lecturer orating for a class.
For anyone who wants to understand the scientific method or simply appreciates excellent exposition will enjoy Popper's essays. Like so many others, his principles are simple, and often misquoted or misused. Reading his words for yourself is the only way.
Tough Reading. His entire idea makes logical sense upon reflection. A must read for anyone interested in understanding the philosophy of science. Together with The logic of Scientific Discovery, both are excellent and very tough read.
An important, but ultimately quite tedious work.
Not for the lay reader.
history book transports you to another dimension which is unforgettable I have intense
Un classique de la philosophie des sciences
One of the best reads in attempting to understand how scientific knowledge expands. Very insightful and thought provoking and full of information.
Very easy book to read and understand, a new vision in science and method. a must-read.
