https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9626.The_Homecoming
Truman Capote found Ray Bradbury’s “Homecoming” in the slush pile at Mademoiselle. @NewYorker artist Charles Addams was hired to create a drawing to accompany the story, and Mademoiselle built their Oct 1946 #Halloween themed issue around it. https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2... …
I don't know what genius realized that Dave McKean and Ray Bradbury were the clearly the dream team of fantasy writing and illustration but I'd like to kiss their feet.This gorgeous story is about the youngest son in a very mysterious family.
Dave McKean is an artist who traffics in the dark and dreaming worlds and his otherworldly style is literally made to bring Bradbury's stories to life.
If he wanted to illustrate every story in The Martian Chronicles or The October Country I would snap them up in a heartbeat.
If you haven't already and you are any kind of fantasy fan I can't recommend McKean's work enough.
Kitap bir yandan tuhaftı ama galiba bu tuhaflık onu güzelleştiren şeydi. Çok fazla bir şey söylemek istemiyorum çünkü büyüsünü kendiniz görseniz eminim daha çok zevk alırsınız.
nothing really was explained..basically it's about a boy named timothy who is human and his family isn't.
every certain number of years (it used to be every year but for some reason now it's not) a Homecoming takes place and all of the ancestors fly or run or float to timothy's family home to party like it's 1999.
i just felt confused.
how did timothy end up mortal when all of his relatives aren't?
how is the family from almost every single country and of every single species?
i have SO MANY questions.all in all, i would say this one was confusing and morbid.
I love Bradbury's short stories, and I love McKean's illustrations, especially in a children's book.
The two work particularly well in this short story (also found in The October Country), about a boy who is the only mortal in a family of vampires, ghouls, and assorted supernatural creatures.
Judged entirely on its own merits, Homecoming is, of course, a fantastic short story.
I think that one of Bradbury's strengths in the short story format was his ability to so quickly and thoroughly develop real characters, and this is absolutely no exception.
I also really liked the way McKean's illustrations worked with the text, though I freely admit that he can be an acquired taste.
I don’t like scary books (at all!) but I do love Ray Bradbury.
It was that love for Bradbury that carried me through reading this very scary book.
The plot is thin: a young boy’s family gather together on All Hallows Eve and the family, all except the boy, are ghouls.
The boy is deeply saddened by being different, completely human, in a family where everyone has special, albeit creepy, abilities.
The story is rich in sensory details, Bradbury-ish in every way.
I could barely make it through this scary story, but even I, a big ole scaredy cat, I could not miss the beautiful writing and the rich characters.
*Book source ~ LibraryA “normal” boy tells of his supernatural family’s reunion, The Homecoming.I normally like Ray Bradbury, but this book was just meh to me. I do like the concept of a normal person in an odd family, like Marilyn was in The Munsters. The illustrations are cool, but not really my style.
It has my absolute favorite Ray Bradbury story in it.
However, I found I was put off by the art somewhat.
It's not that I haven't seen the substitution of poor proportion for actual mood before, I have.
I would have liked to see a different artist who could portray mood and the beauty of horror, if I may use such a phrase.
Parts of the art were still acceptable for me.
I would give this a three star, except that it is Bradbury, and my favorite story, and so I am keeping it in the house.
I was really hoping THE HOMECOMING would be more of a creepy-type read, but there is nothing frightening here.While this is a story about a young (human) lad who comes from a family of vampires, (no spoiler here) there is not much substance beyond the final message of love.I am a big fan of Ray Bradbury and his other Halloween tales, but not so much this one or the modern-type artwork illustrated throughout this All Hallows Eve reunion story for children.
Tuhaf bir hikayesi olan bir kitap bu. Altında yatan anlam ise çok güzel. Ailemizin bizi olduğumuz gibi kabul etmemesi korkusu sırf bu yüzden onlara benzeme isteği. Farklılıkları kolay kabullenemiyoruz hiçbirimiz onları düzeltmeye çalışıyoruz. Bize benzesinler istiyoruz. Tek tip olsunlar ,bir özelliği olmasa da önemli değil. Kendi payıma bunu çıkardım bu kitaptan ben. Dave McKean'in illüstrasyonları kitaba ayrı bir güzellik katmış ve kokurken ağzınızdan bir şiir kıvamında dökülen o sözler bu hikayeyi özel yapan şeylerden bir tanesi.
This is the third book by Ray Bradbury that I read and I am turning into a huge Bradbury fan. Beautifully written and coupled with fantastic illustrations, this book is unique adventure and a must read.
Öncelikle şunu söylemem lazım resimden çok anlamayan biri olmama rağmen çizimler beni etkiledi, kapağa baktığımda biraz abartı diyordum ama kısa hikaye ilerledikçe daha çok hoşuma gitti, tarz olarak hoşuma gitmese de yine de şansımı denemek istedim, ama çok da olmadı. Yine de en azından Timothy'nin hisleri kitabın sonunda askıda kalmıyor, tamamlanarak okuyucu mutlu ediliyor.
To inaugurate another October I just re-read Bradbury's classic The Homecoming.
It is quintessential Bradbury - chock full of metaphors that leave you spinning with dark imagery, cold autumn wind, and mysterious characters.
I know I've felt that way before, have you?"And the wind began...As Timothy leaned out, a flesh-and-blood gargoyle, the vast armada of tomb dust and web and wing and October leaf and graveyard blossom pelted the roofs even as on the land around the hill shadows trotted the roads and threaded the forests armed with teeth and velvet paws and flickered ears, barking to the moon." - Bradbury, The Homecoming.
This book tells you right off that it is for those who love Halloween.
The Homecoming is about a family celebrating all Hallow's Eve with their dead ancestors who are all ghouls.
The illustrations really make the book come alive.
The family goes through the evening with different elements of who all joins the party and how they look.
I honestly had to read the book a few times to figure out what was going on.
I appreciate the author and have read some of his stuff but I am just not the biggest fan of this book the first time I read it.
This is a storybook version of one of Bradbury's more popular stories, "The Homecoming." I didn't care for it all that much for two reasons.
They do not add to the flavor of the book for me at all.
In fact, for my reading of this text, they are in dissonance.
Second, I have never cared for this story as much as some of Bradbury's others.
I may tire of reading them, but they are classics.
But this story is mediocre in my opinion and does not move me as those others do.
This book is for Bradbury completists only.
Interesting little book.
Figured: Bradbury and McKean = can't go wrong there.
Sure enough, both deliver.
I found the story a bit hard to follow, maybe its because of the bizarre way that the text is presented on the page, of McKean's artwork which tends to always steal the show.
Still though, I need to stop always trying to figure out "the point" or themes of all these stories, and learn to merely soak in the experience and enjoy it, and as experiences go, this one's a delightful little romp in terror.
İthaki Yayınları tarafından "Eve Dönüş" adı altında dilimize kazandırılan The Homecoming, geniş bir hortlak ailesinin bir parçası olan Timothy'nin öyküsü.Timothy'nin ailesinden farkı, onlar gibi ölümsüz olmaması. Timothy, her Cadılar Bayramı'nda bir araya gelen ailesi ve akrabalarının arasında kendisini farklı ve biraz da dışlanmış hissediyor. Hepsi sonsuza kadar yaşayacak olurken, ölümlü olduğu için neleri kaçıracağını düşünüp duruyor. Bir hastalık olarak kabul edilen ölümlülüğünü, neden bunun başına geldiğini sorguluyor.Devamı Zimlicious'ta.
A gorgeous book, put together with great care. It only took about five minutes to read, of course, being a short story. The idea - of packaging classic short stories with superb modern artwork - is a good one, but would probably be best aimed at children. This volume does make a nice companion piece to The Wolves in the Walls and The Day I Swapped My Dad for Two Goldfish. My four year old daughter loved it, but then she's made us sit through Mirrormask three times so far this week...
So difficult to rate this book. Got it mostly for illustrations... I love McKean. And Bradbury... He always confuses me, and out off that mess in my head that he creates, amazing images and atmosphere emerge... but I need time to get there, I need twenty pages or more of Bradbury's poetry to charm me into his blend of whimsicalness. A story is simply not long enough, not even with the help from McKean.I'll have to reread this one.
Honestly, I picked this up for the amazing artwork.The story itself was okay; nothing amazing, though it does feature some lovely descriptions. The illustrations are really very good and are almost enough to single-handedly make worthwhile checking out this edition.
This one just never grabbed me. I do like Bradbury, so I was disappointed not to like this one. :(
Ray Bradbury, benim için ne yazarsa okumayı istediğim yazarlardan olacak...
Bradbury'yi seviyoruz çünkü o düzyazının şairi, seviyoruz çünkü o da Poe'yu seviyor.
I’d never read this short story before, but was intrigued by Dave McKean’s dark illustrations.
His style is well suited to the strangeness of this tale, flowing with such evocative descriptions: “I see a wolflike thing crossing a dark river —at the shallows— just above a waterfall, the starlight burning his pelt.
I see many creature beasts, running under the forest trees and slipping through the highest branches; and they’re all heading here!” The style and story may not appeal to everyone, as it leaps from living to dead, from real to surreal, like a fitful breeze.
McKean's illustrations could have been MUCH more appropriate to the story and were poor none-the-less even though I am a BIG fan of his art in general.
He did design the book very stylishly with the words going in all kinds of directions and positions.My gripe with Bradbury in general, who I'm also a big fan of, is that he would write something confusing then clear it up later instead of making it clear in the first forcing me to spend time in vain trying to decipher that then becomes a total waste.
A very strange family reunion is a brewing (the horror feel and pacing is similar to "Something Wicked This Way Comes") coupled with some very appropriate, spooky style illustrations from Dave McKean.
Strange and creepy .......
Weird, but a lot of good metaphorical description.
This was a rather sweet, but awfully short story with beautiful illustrations. I wasn't that invested in the story, but I found it charming nonetheless, especially the end.
An interesting short story about a normal boy named Timothy who lives in a family of monsters.
