https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28.Notes_from_a_Small_Island
This book combines several of my favorite things: travelogues, England, and the charm of Bill Bryson.It is the book version of comfort food.So you can understand why I instinctively reached for this audiobook on the the first day of my new job.
Highly recommended to fans of travelogues and/or England.First Read: August 2014Second Read: July 2016Favorite Quotes"I can never understand why Londoners fail to see that they live in the most wonderful city in the world.
Bill Bryson likes hedgerows, yelling at people, the English language, complaining, pretending to be a hiker, the fifth Duke of Portland, W.J.C. Scott-Bentinck, and himself.
He tries too hard to be clever, and although you're being introduced to some interesting mental pictures ("a mid-face snack dispenser" for instance), and it's positively obvious how much he loves the English language and the art of writing, the lengths to which he goes can be tiring.
The long-winded, irritating tangents he goes on add to this eye-clawing frustration.
Interesting about the hedgerows and the former Duke of Portland, too.
Sometimes it takes a long trip away from home or the perspective of a stranger to make you realize the beauty of the land and of the people around you, and Bill Bryson is for me the best kind of guide possible.
For seven weeks in 1994, Bill Bryson will try to rediscover Britain from the southern Downs to the last desolate northern moors, travelling alone on foot or by public transport, a decision that I will let him explain with his usual mix of militancy and self-deprecating humour: Motorized vehicles are ugly and dirty and they bring out the worst in people.
After 20 years in England, Bill Bryson decided to tour Britain in 1995 by public transport over ~6 weeks and write a book about it.HUMOURThere are snippets of great humour and insight (“a young man with more on his mind than in it”; “carpet with the sort of pattern you get when you rub your eyes too hard”; in Liverpool, “They were having a festival of litter...
For a self-confessed Anglophile, he often seems to dislike the place, though the weather gets off surprisingly lightly, especially given that he made the trip in late autumn.BRYSON HERUMPHINGThe lack of trains in remote areas is a particular bugbear, but what I don't understand is his outraged surprise - he'd lived in and travelled around the country for 20 years!
He also writes much about the history of his destinations and I found most of the information fascinating.One thing that tickled my funny bone is that when he was in one small English town, he saw the old “This is Cinerama” movie, a movie I remember from my childhood, and brought me right back to the United States of America.
I hadn’t realized the movie was already old the first time that I saw it, but I do remember loving that film and other Cinerama movies.There’s a glossary of English (vs.
American English) words in the back of the book.
Ambling know-it-all wanders around the UK, complaining about architecture, getting drunk, finding delight in little, and generally having a hard time deciding where to eat (always Indian or Chinese in the end).
Plus, I really liked his book about traveling through continental Europe, so I don’t know what happened here.
(A very little bit.) I wanted to smack him after he refuses to pay 14.50 for a hotel breakfast, then can’t find anywhere in town to eat, then starving, staggers into a McDonald’s and proceeds to go off on a poor minimum-wage employee when he asks if he’d like to add an apple turnover to his order.
"One thing I have learned over the years is that your impressions of a place are necessarily, and often unshakably, colored by the route you take into it."- Bill Bryson, Notes from a Small Island It is really hard not to like Bill Bryson's travel books.
Actually, it is hard not to like his dictionaries, travelogues, or explorations of: the Universe, the home, Shakespeare, etc.
One of the "truths" that Bryson pushed heavily in this constructed memoir (there has to be a better term for writing about an event that is designed to be written about).
Bryson would argue that the Brits are almost blind to their own beauty.
I hadn't realised, until I read the book, that Bryson had lived in the UK for many years.
It seems to be working; I've lost about 28 lbs so far...)On occasion, he portrays himself in a less than sympathetic light, being downright rude to various customer service folks across the country who were only doing their jobs as the company they're working for asks them to do it.
Here's a tip for folks out there: if you have received bad service from a customer service employee, please feel free to complain.
You can read him while concentrating on your coffee and it will pass your time pleasantly, maybe you won't gain anything from this exercise, no wisdom, no insight, no sudden new understanding but he won't cost you anything either (view spoiler)[ apart from an expanding doughnut packed body and mindNotes from a Big Island is the epitome of his art - the collected, USA themed, journalism that he wrote when he returned to America after a spell living in the UK (view spoiler)[ before bouncing back to the UK  (hide spoiler)].
Look, I'm a regular guy from Iowa who sometimes gets really narked at owners of undisciplined dogs and thinks hedgerows are A Good Thing and cars aren't.
Where BB gets right up my nose is with his quaint idea that Britain should have remained in a seventies time warp, preserving all those quirky little British things like red pillar boxes and old-fashioned red telephone boxes merely, it would seem, because they appeal to regular guys from Iowa.
I'm sure that Britain is not always a model of sensitive town planning, but what does he expect?
I only got about a third of the way through this book.
I was giving Bill Bryson one more chance to impress me, but he didn't quite do it.
I felt like Bryson writes with a perennial smirk on his face, laughing at his own cleverness as he pens various turns of the phrase.
But a few funny sentences here and there, sprinkled with snarky comments and occasional self-deprecation to balance out the outwardly directed criticism do not add up to something that keeps me interested enough to read the whole book.
I studied for a summer in Bath, adore Wimbledon, and I am a huge fan of Shakespeare and most of literary canon which can be defined as British Lit, so I think I've always had a special place in my heart for the UK, particularly England.
A favorite moment: hiking in a rainstorm and reaching the summit to find a cadre of Brits huddled together eating soggy sandwiches, apparently quite content.
Bryson has a way of softly poking fun at the quirks of a culture and its people, but also presenting it all as charming and rather wonderful.I recommend this book to anyone who has traveled or plans on traveling around the UK as well as anyone who is an anglophile...you won't be disappointed!
Quite an entertaining book. Bryson is at his best when presented with oddities and eccentricities he can describe to, what he seems to presume anyway, a foreign audience who will be all agog at such just how different the British are. Its quite amusing to have our foibles pointed out by an American anyway, so this British person at least, enjoyed the book.
Until I do, travel writing like Notes from a Small Island will have to serve to whet my appetite.Bill Bryson is a brilliant writer.
He reminisces about his youthful awe over the differences between Britain and the United States, and it’s a delightful prelude to the beginning of his tour of the country twenty years later.I’d be exaggerating if I said that the book goes drastically downhill after that strong start, but it would not be wild hyperbole.
I get it, I do, but after a while one rather does think that the author would like Britain to return to the halcyon days, circa the late 1800s when no one had yet had the effrontery to tear down hedgerows or build shopping centres.
However, it becomes tedious to read, no matter how many funny stories it is sandwiched between.Bryson can be extremely witty (I know I have greatly enjoyed many of his other books) and has a knack for ferreting out extraordinary little factoids and anecdotes and fondly poking fun at the British identity.
I decided to return to this book after reading about Britain in Ali Smiths  Winter  which is set in the early part of 2017.
‘Notes from a Small Island’ and ‘Neither Here nor There’ are Bill Bryson’s early travelogues concerning his journeys through Britain and other European countries respectively.Both of these books are the strongest and the funniest of Bryson’s earliest work and undoubtedly established his reputation (at that time) as a travel writer and commentator of repute, producing engaging and very entertaining travelogues.
It was hardly surprising to discover that the first book I finished in 2008 was one of my comfort re-reads.
And Bill Bryson's “Notes from a Small Island” must be recorded as the ultimate comfort re-read for an expat Brit; providing on every page diversions that are fascinating, enlightening, humourous, or just plain nostalgic.
He's curious about placenames, linguistics (why did they call it a 'grapefruit'?), the potato marketing board, psychology, gender differences, and the timetabling abilities of the Blaenau Ffestiniog railway.From the underpants-clad-head at the start, to the Seattle-Carlisle railway at the end, I know I can open this book anywhere and find something entertaining, edifying, or enlightening.
This book is 30% random information about Britain, 10% witty humor, and 60% Bryson constantly complaining about what he thinks is wrong.
At first the reading was amusing, and there are good passages that contain great cultural observations from an outsider's perspective, but Bryson is a biased, self-absorbed liberal, and his narrow-minded perspective often gets in the way of what could have potentially been a greater book.
I was looking forward to learning all about the culture and quirks of different places in Britain and its people, but Bryson's rants ended up as an annoyingly preachy, mediocre diary.
I definitely will read more of Bryson's books, simply for his unique, if random, perspective.
There were some truly hilarious moments & observations in this tour of Britain, but a lot of it was also a rather dry account of every little thing the author did. The tone did manage to be endearing even while his unpleasant personality seeped through, though. So some parts were fun! But I definitely had a hard time pushing myself to finish it.
Bryson traveled to Dover, London, the southern coast, then headed north through England, Wales, and Scotland, then back to his home in North Yorkshire.I especially enjoyed the beginning and the end of the book, but thought the middle bogged down a bit as he hit some unremarkable villages off-season in the rain.
Then he complained when he had to eat Indian or Chinese food again after wandering around for hours looking for a restaurant.Bryson's writing was humorous, poking a bit of fun at the British while also exhibiting very warm feelings for them.
Bryson, true to spirit, makes you laugh at everything about the place and fall in love with the place at the same time. No wonder for years the Brits have considered this the most representative travel book about themselves. Full review to follow.
I enjoyed this - a fun look at Britain and British life, a little out-dated now but thoroughly funny and insightful throughout.
Bill is in such familiar territory that he unfurls his self-centred self in full, spending whole pages describing the organizational skills of his favorite hotel and insulting anonymous people who crossed him 20 years ago.
Still exceptionally written, funny and accidentally informative at times.Two examples of of great insightful humour:1) He spends a paragraph describing how the English would make perfect communists, loving to queue, not complaining, etc.2) He describes how a Chinatown begins with a huge Chinese arch and quickly gives up.Bill, this is your first book I stopped cold.
I admit that central Edinburgh can be an empty pretentious place, but you seem to blow into every British city, insult the fat people at McDonalds for eating in front of you and then blow out again.
If my count is correct, we brought 16 books with us, and this was one of my picks.I like Bill Bryson and I figured this would be fun to read as a new resident of England, as a sort of joking but genuine guide to people I'd like to get to know, as well as to some places I'm eager to visit.
And I think, soon, we'll probably share a love for this funny old country.
at page 274, so close to the end, I hit this:In the end, fractious and impatient, I went into a crowded McDonald's, waited ages in a long, shuffling line, which made me even more fractious and impatient, and finally ordered a cup of coffee and an Egg McMuffin."Do you want an apple turnover with that?"asked the young man who served me.I looked at him for a moment.
It's not even my idea of being a basically acceptable human being.I read a bit further on to see if the author ever expressed any sort of awareness that the scene above describes an overbearing bully belittling a employee in the middle of a rush for executing their job as required by their employer.
I got this book by mistake and almost didn't read it. But I'm glad I did. Because The Crown . Now I realize the two got nothing to do with one another but Netflix sure knows how to jack you up. Despite the fact I despise monarchy of any sorts. Good book this , do read it.
Unfortunately for me, I’ve never been to England, nor have I even met a great many English people in person.
So as a kind of substitute for actually going there—which I earnestly hope to one day—I happily picked up this book, in order to learn more about this distant beacon of sarcasm and silly walks which has so enriched my life.Putting aside Bryson’s wonderful writing for a moment, I must say that he makes for an odd travel guide, to say the least.
At the very least, this book could have used more vigorous editing.Despite all these flaws and shortcomings, I still had a great time reading this travelogue.
Christ knows what it then termed these expanses of sand -- intermediate sewage buffers, I suppose -- but in any case it disposed of the problem without either solving it or costing the treasury a penny, which is of course the main thing, or in the case of the present government, the only thing."Then there's British Rail.
At each station the voice apologized for the delay and announced anew that the train would terminate in Stockport.
I constantly felt like a bit of an outsider listening in to some great inside jokes that flew right over my head.But the sections where he described human nature in general, or the portions about Scotland where I did have some personal frame of reference thanks to a Scottish roommate in college, I found to be very funny and entertaining.
It is obvious this book was written about Britain for a British audience and because of it I had a nice descriptive tour of the geography, the people and, of course, the wet weather.I was a little surprised by the sudden brash insertions of vulgarity and showy tell-offs of people who happened to annoy him.
A propósito do Brexit achei que esta era uma boa altura para ler este livro.
Já tinha gostado muito de ler Aquele Verão de 1927 de Bryson e tinha vontade de compreender melhor os britânicos e um pouco da sua história.
Mas este não é o livro que me vai ajudar nesse assunto tal como diz na contracapa.
Crónicas de uma Pequena Ilha é um diário de viagem do autor pela Grã Bretanha com imensas referências a cidades, lugares curiosos e algumas personagens da história escrito com humor e ironia, mas não é mais que isso.
Para quem gosta do género não ficará defraudado.
