https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/92160.London
A sprawling historical novel as big as London itself - it was required reading before I went to study abroad and I've read it twice since. Rutherford did an incredible amount of research and it all comes together beautifully. The characters' family trees carry through the entire history of Britain - pre-Roman through WWII. This book is so dear to my heart!
However, the fact that the characters change every couple of chapters (as the narrative jumps forward in time) hurts the flow of the story and stops you from developing any sort of attachment to the characters.
Really, who cares if a character gets what they want, achieves their dreams, are the good guy/bad guy, when you know that in the next chapter you'll jump ahead to their descendents where their circumstances might have completely changed??So I'd recommend the book if you're looking for more of a historical read, rather than one based on a compelling story.
I did not like this book, and probably won't finish it though I'm 3/4 of the way through.
The author goes from life to life through the history of London, and because it's such massive history, is unable to give details about the characters and environments that I usually adore.
Because of this lack of detail I feel disconnected from the characters and the story.
I chose to read it after going to London and wishing I could learn more about the historical day to day.
I think reading seperate books about different periods of the history, perhaps specific biographies might satisfy me more.
UPDATE: An author certainly can't cover every historical event concerning London in a single volume, or perhaps even in a series of volumes.
Incompetent rulers, thieves, murderers, etc., are still in fashion, but so is "...a kind of hush...heard all over the world...that's the sound of lovers falling in love..." (London's Herman's Hermits pop song from the mid '60s).
I could absolutely see the image of the Eifel Tower rising among the clouds-perhaps a subliminal message from Rutherford that his "Paris" is coming soon...but those other clouds...and what, exactly are all those characters doing...gotta give this novel itself a PG rating, but that cover is definitely closing in on an R-rating.)
London stretches all the way from Roman times to the present. The author tells stories at the most dramatic moments of that city's history, leaping from Caesar's invasion to the Norman Conquest to the Great Fire to the Blitz, with many stops in between. London is ambitious, and students of English history will eat it up. I really enjoyed this one.
This epic work really does bring history alive in your as Rutherford moves from chapter to chapter e
Ugh. Every physical description of a female character began and ended with her breasts. Wooden prose, stilted dialogue -- actually, the only thing I enjoyed about this book were the descriptions of London as it grew and changed. If Rutherfurd had written a story about the city itself, rather than bringing characters into it, I might have enjoyed it more. Maybe a better writer will attempt that book.
Although not in the same league as Ken Follett's "Pillars of the Earth" and "World Without End", this is a nice book for Follett fans who are suffering from severe withdrawal symptoms after finishing those two great novels.
This book is taking me a long time to read because I wanted to see what the Tower of London looked like, I wanted to read more about London Bridge, I even rented several DVDs that coincided with the time period in the book to get a feel of the culture, costumes and setting as I read.
I am looking forward to finally finishing "London" (about 100 pages to go) and reading some of the other epics by Rutherfurd.
This book genre is terrific for learning little known facts, such as the origins of words or how geography shapes human history, and is not the sort of book to read for in depth explorations of personalities, thoughts, feelings, angst, etcetera - just not that sort of literature.
As for feeling that the book was too short, it seems to me that Mr. Rutherfurd starts to run out of steam after the Restoration period (latter half of the 17th C.), and the latter chapters in particular (Victorian through present) do not have the same complexity as the earlier stories.
Svaka priča zasebni junaci.
Od prazne ostrvske keltske močvare i prvih rimskih dolazaka i Cezarovih osvajanja, preko postepenog i viševekovnog razvoja kraljevstva, viteštva, kmetstva, zaključno sa pojavom prvih znakova demokratskog uređenja s kraja dvanaetskog veka.Fascinantan i divljenja vredan pokušaj, očigledno više nego učenog i načitanog autora, koji je ujedno i sasvim solidan pisac.
It started out fine, but about 3/4ths of the way through, the repetition (particularly every era having a character with an odd streak of white hair) got to be annoying, and in a 1100+ page book, it ended up seeming interminable.Rutherfurd's got a schtick of writing massive doorstoppers following one family over the course of millennia.
There's intimate domestic dramas and high points in history all mixed together.
A fine formula, but once is enough.
I tried reading his Russka: The Novel of Russia soon after this and suffered burnout and boredom from the formulaic repeat.
Haven't been tempted to pick up another of his books.
Will review when finished.---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Finally finished London (we have been a bit busier at work).The historical details of this book are excellent.
Thien, it picked up for several chapers, then 2 dragging ones again, then the book ended well.When characters I liked were "on stage" as it were, I read much faster.That said, I do not want to turn people away from reading this wook.
It is a very, good solid three stars--just can't give it four.
But the patient reader---especially if you like history --will find much to enjoy here.If you are a faster reader than I--I am quite slow--you might finish it in less time.
this book.I read Edward Rutherfurd's novel "Paris" at the beginning of this year and flew through the 800-something pages because I just couldn't put it down.
Yes, part of it is my bias because I love that city, but the book was such a great work of historical fiction in itself.
I love historical fiction!
And I don't think there's anything wrong with that.I am still planning on trying Rutherfurd's novels "New York" and "Russka", to see whether "Paris" was the shining light in a group of books not for me, or whether "London" was the lone anomaly I couldn't get through.
I was hoping for that magical merging of history and fiction, which gives life to history and historical significance to life.
Rutherfurd's book, however, misses this anticipation by a wide margin.London covers almost two thousand years of history and focuses on a few familial hereditary lines throughout that span of time.
Each period of history that is selected by Rutherfurd is complemented by stories that focus on these families.
Domestic problems such as infidelity, disobedient spouses, and marriage arrangements dominate every time period covered by Rutherfurd.
These two vital components seldom merged into that powerful combination known as great historical fiction.I'll also add that Rutherford stories tend to be prosaic.
I'll admit it--I didn't finish it. It's a good idea, and a good introduction to London's history, but I really got a little tired of the story (over and over and over) of the Brave, Heroic, Intelligent Man who manages to seduce, conquer, and commit adultery with the Silly, Stupid, Manipulative Woman, who is brainless, yes, but prettier than all the other silly, stupid, and manipulative women in that particular chapter. In fact, I have a hard time remembering a chapter in which this does not happen. And there are a lot of chapters.
The book limps toward the Norman invasion which is the first good chapter.Into the second millennium and though the Henry II-Thomas Beckett event is dealt with well, the Black Death and its after effects on society is given little coverage (a stark contrast to Sarum).
A shame almost that he did not hold off long enough to write a chapter on the millennium celebrations at The Dome to bring it full circle.Overall this book is a slog and though better than ‘The Forest’ it is not as good as ‘Sarum’ I will probably read another Rutherford but only if a suitable subject comes up.
I love these Michener-like authors who start with the creation of the earth and bring it through the centuries to modern day time, especially when, like Rutherfurd, they have families who intertwine through the epochs and are followed from earliest times to the present.I also love his theme that there really are no pure-breeds, that we are all the result of rivers of population changes, influxes of immigrants, plagues, intermarriages, inter-breeding outside of marriage (No!
And how quickly we forget - two centuries later, people have legends about their beginnings that have little or no relationship to the truth!I even have another Rutherfurd book, The Forest, as a carrot for when I am finished with unpacking boxes.
400 pesos el librito, me entran ganas de llorar. Mientras tanto sigo esperando que me lo compren....
Hrdinou téhle knihy je samotné město Londýn a Edward Rutherfurd vás provede dvěma tisíciletími jeho dějin.
Vzhledem k tomu, jak dlouhé období popisuje, jde vlastně o takové střípky z dlouhého život města, tyto střípky ale dohromady dávají docela fascinující mozaiku.
Ukážou vám duši města jako tavícího kotlíku národností a ras, ze kterých nakonec vznikl dnešní Londýňan.Historii města popisuje na historii mnoha generací několika londýnských rodin.
Jednotlivé postavy nejsou až tak důležité, jde vlastně o typy lidí, které mohl člověk v té které době v Londýně potkat, takže ani nějak nevadí pokud se začnete ve všech těch Ducketech, Doggetech, Barnikelech a Silversleevesech ztrácet.
About halfway through Chapter 18 (~page 1030) on the Cutty Sark I recognized that I had read that story before. Then I realized I had read the whole book before - that is how unmemorable the stories and characters are.
While I do feel much more familiar with the city's (and England's) basic history, the book didn't have as much merit as literature.
I want to read all thousand-plus pages of Gone with the Wind, for example, because of its strong writing and characters.
Which, as you can tell from the length of this paragraph was annoying at best.All in all, it's not a pleasure read, but it is good if you have a specific interest in London and want to commit a good chunk of time to learning about the history of the city without picking up a textbook.
Pero como creo que lo segundo era culpa mía por estar un poco verde con la historia de Inglaterra, el libro se nota currado y muy bien documentado, y la última parte la he disfrutado muchísimo y eso hace que me haya quedado buen sabor de boca...
Al principio y con esa justificación lo dejaba estar, pero cuando llevas más o menos la mitad del libro empieza a molestarte un poco, porque no deja de ser una novela y los personajes son una parte fundamental.
I haven't read other Rutherford books but I understand the concept is similar -- follow a few families, with distinguishing physical and personality traits, down through the ages from nigh pre-historic all the way through to contemporary world (the 1990's in this case), weaving history in with (fictional) biography.
The WWII chapter is also interesting for one more thing: because his canvas is large, he comes at events from different points of view.
He can use one character to see things a certain way, and later reference the same event from another character's point of view -- creating opposing yet simultaneously sympathetic viewpoints.
The author places his vignettes at the most dramatic moments of that city's history, leaping from Caesar's invasion to the Norman Conquest to the Great Fire to (of course) the Blitz, with many stops in between.
The author doesn't skimp on historical detail, and that's a signal pleasure of the book.
Rutherfurd is a good storyteller and each vignette makes for a good story; however, he has given himself the inevitable task of beginning what amounts to a new book every 40 pages or so.
The novel covers the major historical events in the history of London.
The author used aritfacts from the Museum of London to inspire the story.
To kick things off, I've decided to pick up Rutherfurd's 'London', after having enjoyed two of his previous works.
Unfortunately, not so much here.Look, I love the way that Rutherford makes everything interconnected within families, and it's fascinating to watch the city change and develop.
And when you're reading a novel this size, you need to be invested in some way in order to get some level of enjoyment out of it.It was okay, but not great - not for me, anyway.
Still, it probably won't prevent me from checking out s0me of Rutherfurd's other work, and I just hope that I'm able to enjoy it better than my experience here.
Well, for an 1100 page-plus book, I would've liked it to be more interesting.
There were a lot of large sections that were bogged down by politics & religion (and at one regrettable point, banking); while I know these issues obviously affect people's lives, I don't need to read about every single complexity therein.There were some great historical tidbits I'd never heard before and I went Googling several times to look at photos & drawings of places gone by (several still remaining).
The early to mid-book descriptions of the river were lovely.
Really, the best parts of the book focused on the City itself and the surrounding landscape.However, I enjoyed Peter Ackroyd's non-fiction tome, London: The Biography, much more.
It takes some time to get into the book; you have to make your way past some dry geographic passages and slow character development.
Each chapter is its own short story which could probably stand on its own.
Since the author couldn’t use the same character through two millennia, he has simplified the character development by using several families and their descendents.
Different genetic traits and/or attitudes reoccur through the ages—giving the reader a sense of familiarity as he moves through time.
My favorite chapter so far is “The Globe,” even though I was able to predict what would happen in the winter of 1599.
This was a lonnnnnnnnnnnng book!
The author cleverly establishes several families and follows them throughout the various historical periods of London's history.
It was a fascinating book, and I learned a great deal about the city, the history of British royalty, the origins of buildings and businesses in London and also the origins of many archaic says we still use today.
I enjoyed the book, but it was a little too long for my tastes--over 800 pages.
I probably would have rated it higher if the author had been able to edit it down a little more.
I think my younger self would have liked this, say, my 12-year old self. It reminded me of Michener's The Source (which I also never finished - as a kiddie). I'm saying farewell at p. 54 of 1124 and will donate this to the local book fair.Weirdly, the pagination in the Table of Contents is all wrong.
Bir kere kitap roman değil, öykü türünde olabilir. Her bölüm ayrı bir hikayeyi barındırıyor. Bir kere bunu düzeltmek gerektiğini düşünüyorum. Okumadan önceki beklentim bizzat içinde olan karakterlerle Londra'nın tarihsel sürecini okumaktı. Ki zaman zaman bazı bölümlerde bu beklentim karşılandı ama çoğu zaman o anki tarih içerisinde olan büyük haberler bir gazete haberi kadar arkaplanda kalırken birkaç ailenin kökenleri etrafında şekillenen ve daha çok onların ailevi problemlerini değinildiği uzun tekdüze pasajları okurken bulmak benim için hayli yorucu bir okuma olduğunu söyleyebilirim.
