https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/89758.The_Kandy_Kolored_Tangerine_Flake_Streamline_Baby
Bonfire of the Vanities came much later & I loved that too, it's very hard to be a comic novelist and not wear out your welcome over the course of 700 pages or so and he got it right again.
After that I let Tom all alone - he came out with other more dubious sounding novels; but I was recently persuaded to read A Man in Full - another 800 pager - and blow me down, the old white-suited rogue had still got what it takes.
Okay, it did fall apart, but I called it the best bad novel I'd read for decades.
This was a fun and interesting read, from a 2014 perspective.
(Although if I ever read the word "artherosclerotic" again I think I'll scream.) These essays/articles all came from the early 1960's and they showcase a world I hadn't a clue about.For instance, the nanny mafia in New York?
I go to car shows all the time and it seems like it's all old guys going!
I like feeling the excitement of being right there in the moment, but then I realize I don't have a clue what Tom Wolfe is talking about.
It would be fun to see essays like this on the 80's or the 90's.
Sorry, all you Hunter S. Thompson fans, but Tom Wolfe revolutionized journalism in the Sixties and didn't need biker colors or mescaline to accomplish the task. His first book (a compilation of articles for Esquire and others) is a brilliant assessment of pop culture (i.e. hot rod shows, fashion designers, Phil Spector, etc.) that captures the times beautifully. I also really like his crazy sketches of street life in New York, complete with hair style portraits. Mad props to Mr. Wolfe!
Wolfe defended his unique writing style in a 1966 interview, saying, “People only write in careful flowing sentences; they don’t think that way and they don’t talk that way.” (Conversations with Tom Wolfe, p.12) Over the course of The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby, you can see Wolfe’s style begin to emerge.
It’s a good piece to end the book with.If you want to know where Tom Wolfe’s exciting writing style came from, go for a ride in The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby.
Another excellent set of essays, mostly mini-biographies with an eye for issues of class and status.
Wolfe covers several angles on the upheaval of the 1960s that I'd never heard described: demolition derbies, the first celebrity DJs, London youth fashion, pre-Nation of Islam Muhammad Ali, gossip rags, elites and art gallery patronage, status and custom tailoring, the divorcee life in NYC, the rise of Las Vegas, the birth of stock car racing and Junior Johnson, the custom car subculture of the West Coast, the upward status pressure of nannies on their WASP employers, the way the elitism at the top of the NYC population filters all the way down to the bottom.
The one exception is the essay on Cassius Clay (later to take the name Muhammad Ali) where Wolfe seems to be giving us a real look at Clay/Ali and the way he is balancing his public reputation against the tedious grind of celebrity niceties.
It feels like we getting a sense of something true, and being made privy to an inner conflict that Clay/Ali usually kept hidden from cameras or the media.At this juncture, I'm looking forward to reading more of Wolfe's works that are more mature, and seeing where he is able to take his writing.
While it's not my favorite of his work, if nothing else reading "A Sunday Kind of Love" made me nostalgic for a life I have never had, and that will never again exist in this rapid attention deficient hyper sexualized spectacle we call modern life. Not all the essays were stunning it's true but one can't deny the wit, wickedly funny observations and smirking insight via brilliant turn of phrase Wolfe's pen delivers.
How much of this fades into cultural referential obscurity and how much remains as a period piece of Deep Truths About the American Condition will continue to clarify with time I suspect. The name dropping density shies dangerously close to the thread count of the emperor's new clothes, but the bit about functional suit sleeve buttons is unequivocally for the ages.
I remember reading this book in 1968 and being electrified by the wonderful descriptive passages that seemed to use a new language of buzz.
Hot rods wouldn't normally be my thing, but I went on a Wolfe binge and snapped them all up.
Not one of my favourites then, even less so now when I am off Wolfe for good.
But there's a flavour of condescension now that I'm afraid would make even those books insufferable if I attempted a reread.And in an unrelated note: what possible reason would the spellchecker have for turning "hot rods" into "not Todd"?
Wouldn't "don't change words which are valid and correctly spelled" be one of the fundamental rules?
The Kindle has truly awful word correction.
Tom Wolfe offers a very unique look at the different cultural groups of America, from fringe sport enthusiasts and mega-rockers, to status-hungry socialites and other affluent New Yorkers who do little more than complain about everything and jockey for social position.
While the first half of the book, dealing with pop culture and fringe society, is vastly more entertaining than the second half, dealing with the debutantes and captain-of-industry dandies; the entire book is permeated with Wolfe's extraordinary ability to weave words and produce captivating journalism from the seemingly mundane.
I would definitely recommend this as an historic look at some very intriguing Americana.
I've always admired Tom Wolfe the journalist - it's not just that his observations are astute, as many many literary critics have pointed out - but that he balances humor and sadness in a unique way.
What is startling about this collection of essays (written in the early 1960's) is how true it still is today, forty years later.
His observation that cultural trends are no longer dictated by the bourgeoisie but rather by the "proles" is definitely still true to this day, as is his oft-repeated insistence that teenagers form the elusive, if important, economic base.
Wolfe's main idea was that culture was no longer a property of the affluent as had been for ages.
With so much wealth entering quarters that rarely consumed media the pop culture of the time had different ideas than the guardians of culture.
Some of the incites of the time seem dated today when we are swirling in the media culture that exploded in the 60s but it is kind of cool to read an eye witness to the budding display of garishness that is our pop culture.
Ugh, I don't like rating short story collections when the quality varies so wildly. Quite a few of these didn't hold my interest at all after a couple of pages, but "The Marvelous Mouth" (a story on Cassius Clay) is one of the best pieces of writing I've ever seen. I also recommend "The Secret Vice" (men's fashion) and the trio of excellent reports on car culture:"Clean Fun at Riverhead" (demolition derby)"The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby" (customizing)"The Last American Hero" (stock car racing)
The reason I enyojed this book was mostly because of Tom Wolfe's insightful description of the early 60's, a time I am only rudimentarily familiar with from film and TV, but never got to see for myself. Certain topics, such as custom cars or the work of New York City doormen, I could relate to a bit, or at least picture in my mind. Others, such as celebrities of various kinds, were utterly unfamiliar to me, so I did not get such a kick out of them. Regardless, Wolfe's writing style is as enjoyable as ever.
This collection of essays read all together is almost overwhelming; Wolfe captures the spirit of an age perfectly...or so I think, having not been there the first time around. Amazing to remember that some of the things we take for granted--like in the first essay, the Vegas Strip--were new and exciting just a few decades ago.Wolfe has a few pet vocabulary words that become quickly overused, but that's my only quibble with this fantastic collection.
This is an interesting look into an America that existed long before I was born.
Even if the sociological aspects of the book don't interest you, the writing is definitely worth it.
For the most part, however, he does a great job of showing person and place.
This is probably not a book for everyone, but if you read for the writing itself, or if you're the type to find looking into another time, another place, another America, interesting, this book is definitely for you.
This was my first Tom Wolfe book, but it certainly won't be my last.
For those my age, 70, this is a great read.
Unless you well remember the early 60’s much of the humor is lost.
This book, while well thought of today, 50 years from now will be forgotten.
If you don’t have the context you just don’t get it.That said, it is a marvelous view of the early 60’s, particularly of New York City.
The series of essays, previously published in magazines, are written in a rambling, almost stream of conciseness style.
Glad I read it, but again, if you are over 68 I recommend it, if younger, pass.
Wolfe has some interesting things to say. His style is almost a proto-gonzo journalism. It's similar to Hunter Thompson's style but without any of Thompson's bite, or grit. Wolfe presents a clean and descriptive asthetic, but he seems almost obsessed with the bourgeois culturati of the early 60's and late 50's which just made some of the prose excruciatingly bland. Some of the prose pieces were fantastic, like; The Fifth Beatle, The last American Hero, and his piece on Phil Spector, but a good bit of this book fell flat as an early step towards gonzo-narrative journalism.
Un retrato brutal, pero irregular de la década de los 60. El ensayo sobre coches es entrañable, bajo el discurso de que los códigos de nuestros significados también se construyen en los autos. Pero al final es un poquito esnob con sus referentes. Otros textos son revolucionarios para su época aunque ahora en retrospectiva no se sientan tan brutales. Aún así, no escribiendo ficción, Wolfe es realmente bueno.
Senseless snotty snooty drivel. A real crapola piece of work. A waste of metaphors; sensationalistic stupidity in the form of attempted satire.Having been involved in the business of hot rods and hot rod shows, as well as the wonderful 1950's and 60's Rock era, I find no redeeming quality in the demeaning tone directed at all of this -- which is carried throughout this book.A waste of time.
My rating should be 3.5 stars. The writing is strong but many of the pieces filling out the back of the book (parts 4 & 5) are too topical or NYC-centric to be very interesting to someone who doesn't care about NYC 60 years ago.
Tom Wolfe's eccentric collection of essays captures real people and real places with the same fascination as the most wild works of fantasy. The book's overall message, however, becomes quite clear well before the last few pieces.
Incredible. I like this Wolfe guy's 'new journalism' thing.
in 1990: http://www.5cense.com/18/583.htm
Yowie! Car culture, Cali culture, culture culture....
Took me some time to get into reading this book but the second part of it (especially about New York) is fantastic and probably would be relevant even today.
the sort of book you buy for the title alone because the actual stories feature the type of people who were probably unknown at the time and are certainly unknown now.
This was a very interesting perspective on life among celebrity and other fascinating people in the 1960's.
Always great to read Tom Wolfe. Timely, as I finished just as he passed away.
