https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/988170.Tawny_Scrawny_Lion
The nephew brought this extra book to be read tonight.
He had one wordless book and he said that didn't count toward our books read tonight.
So we gave the Tawny Lion a turn.
He has read it before and I had not.
I love that the rabbits and their vegetarian stew were able to sate that ol' lion.
To think that carrot stew would fill you up more than meat.
I think this is probably the first vegetarian story.
Anyway, the nephew loved the book.
He gave it 5 stars.
I think it would mean more if I was younger.
We used to have a fairly decent collection of Little Golden Books when I was a kid.
(I thought perhaps these animals were in a zoo, which would explain why they were all in one place; but that just brings up the question of why the lion was allowed to run free and chase all the other animals.) The big animals, tired of being chased, tell a clueless little rabbit to go talk to the hungry lion, with a sort of "nudge-nudge, wink-wink" thing going on behind his back (they assume he'll get eaten).
I don't think I'd recommend this one, except maybe to people who are looking for another nostalgic addition to their Little Golden Books collection.
I saw this book in a toybox at the barber shop today. I'm sure I've read this numerous times to Karen. I couldn't resist the temptation to read it again. I did get some looks. It was worth it.
How annoying probably has a direct relationship to whether or not your beloved Mama read you this book when you were little :) And, like many stories of that era, the biology is also a bit skewed - Lions who eat carrot and fish stew will not be happy and plump, they will be even scrawnier because lions are obligate carnivores.
Eating meat isn't something they do to be mean, it's something they do because they have no choice.So, you know, if you're looking for realism, this is not the book for you.
If you're looking for a cute little story about how friendship tames wild beasts and makes everybody happy...
Promotes pescetarianism & shopping locally. Also rabbits.
There's a page in this book where the lion has been filled with stew, and he's bummed because he's so full he can't eat all the bunnies.
So he asks if he can stick around for a while, and the bunnies all hop up on his belly.
The picture that goes with this scene - the look on the lion's face - it's perfection.
I had the pleasure of reading this to my three-year-old daughter recently, and she enjoyed it almost as much as I did, though she didn't understand that the lion wanted to eat the bunnies until I explained it to her.
The Tawny Scrawny Lion was a highlight of my childhood. It is a book I loved so much that I have copies of it put up for hopefully future family members some day. It is a great book to read to children and teach them about working within their spectrum of the environment they reside in. The Lion had to slowly come around to eating lots of healthy things to become healthy not just in body but mind.
This has to be one of the best books of all time. Its sweet simpleness catches the reader's attention, starting with the sad condition of the lion, followed by the accepting nature of the rabbit. I found it taught Christlike principles, such as loving others, the Golden Rule, among others. I read this to all my children, & hope you enjoy reading this to yours.
This book was kinda disturbing to me as a kid because I have always hated stories in which animals or inanimate objects depicted as thinking and feeling like people attempt to eat each other or try to avoid getting eaten.
To this day I'm disturbed by M&M's commercials and Chik-fil-A ads in which the talking creatures reason with you to make you less inclined to eat them, and I'm disturbed by talking cereal ads and food packaging that says "Eat me!" or "I'm delicious!" So a whole book in which a ravenous lion chases animals he wants to eat was scary to me as a kid even though nobody got eaten, because I was a sophisticated enough kid to understand that the food chain was a real thing.
What do I like best about this book? The fact that when I had my daughter, my cousin sent me a box of "hand me down clothes" and included in the box were a couple childrens books, old childrens books, and old childrens books that I had written my name in. This is one of the books. My name is written on the inside cover in childish print. This book was mine. I read it when I was probably 5 or 6 years old. That is why I like this book.
There's a Tamil saying which, loosely translated, says: Will a tiger eat grass even if it's hungry? The traditional answer is of course supposed to be a resounding 'No'. This book, meant to read out to and enjoy with the kids in your life, tells what happens when a tawny scrawny eternally hungry lion meets a family of fat, happy rabbits and is invited to share their carrot stew. Rollicking fun!
This is one of those rare children's books that quietly teaches kids something but is a STORY. It's a fun tale about a lion who was never satisfied, who befriended rabbits who fed him stew and gave him companionship. It's funny, the pictures are great and kids love this book.
This was always one of my favorite books when I was very small. There was just something about a lion eating carrot stew that struck me as really funny. It's definitely a classic, and I still love the illustrations as an adult, though the lion looks a bit possessed at times. *shrug*
Great story, mini-example where two actors who seem to be in a zero-sum game are able to change their paradigm into a win-win. Also, is warm and sweet and the pictures and lovely and it's completely wonderful!
This is a great book for kids. I still have my copy over 20 years later and when a friend has a baby I'll order up a copy. It's great for a laugh and gives a different spin on the story of the king of the jungle.
Probably my favorite of the Little Golden Books, because the art work is hilarious.
A story about eating healthy and well with good friends, which in turn makes you fat as butter, sleek as satin, and jolly as all get out.
One of the first books I remember reading as a child.
Food is a great way to make friends.
Not realistic but cute.
Tawny lion chases various animals every day of the week they don't like him because he is always catching them but he is also is very hungry.
He goes after a rabbit; but instead of catching and eating him he teaches him how to fish and promises him carrot stew when they get back to his home.
In the end he gets his mind off the hunger of the animals and gets his mind on how great tasting their stew was!
He is no long the tawny scrawny lion he once was but instead a belly full happy everyone's friend.
We have the book with audio CD.
The story teller's voice and animal sounds are great.
I'd never heard this story.
It starts off very disturbingly, about the lion eating all the other animals.
Then the other animals trick the fat little rabbit into talking with the lion.
The rabbit is smart though and convinces the lion not to eat him by telling him that he can come to his house where there are many other fat rabbits.
So they go and then they convert the Tawny Scrawny Lion into a vegetarian with Carrot Stew!!
This is a golden books classic (gold spine).
I was very sensitive as a child.
The idea of one animal eating another animal bothered me.
So, as a consequence, despite the fantastic artwork, I did not really like this book.
Fast-forward thirty or so years and I'm working as a children's librarian.
For some reason, our department decided to turn this book into a puppet show.
I'm working on the "screenplay" for the puppet show, and I suddenly realize how funny this book actually is.
My newly-five-year-old son has a very strong and and strange sense of humor.
He also is drawn to beautiful artwork.
He, of course, love this book.
The classic story about a hungry lion who won't stop eating the other jungle animals and the clever rabbit who tricks him into filling his belly with stew.It's a pretty standard kids' story: problem, cute animals, simple solution. But I can't help but wonder if there's an implied moral; specifically, that eating vegetarian is better (which is great for some but not for others). (Another might be that doing something is better than sitting around in fear.) I'd love to know more about the history of the book. Nonetheless, an entertaining read for the toddler and preschool crowd.
Tawny Scrawny Lion is a classic, hilarious, and heartwarming tale of imaginative telling, and the lesson within is as applicable today as it ever was. I remember my parents reading this to us kids before I could read myself, and I still find myself saying "five fat sisters and four fat brothers" to myself whenever I need reminding that my goal lies beyond some obstacle in my way.  That's a lesson for life!!
This is a cute little story about a lion that chases after a number of animals every day of the week but can't seem to get full. The animals tried to reason with Tawny about eating them, but couldn't seem to talk any sense into him. Finally they appoint a rabbit to try to talk some sense into him. They introduce him to carrot soup and his days of chasing other animals are over, he's finally fat and happy.
So many Golden Books shaped me as a child, but the favorites which stand out in my mind were:Scuffy the Tugboat and His Adventures Down the RiverThe Pokey Little PuppyThe Ugly DucklingThe Tawny, Scrawny LionThe Saggy, Baggy ElephantThe Tale of Peter RabbitLittle Black SamboThe Little Red HenBambiSnow White and the Seven DwarvesCinderellaMary Poppins101 DalmationsThe Lady and the Tramp
Awww. This was written back in the good old days, when the lions were ravenous, the rabbits were simpletons, and the big animals were devious (and, it seems, the fish were delicious!). You could even argue that there is a multicultural cast of characters. Where on Earth would you ever find a Lion, a Kangaroo, a Camel, a Bear AND an Elephant all living in the same forest?
You especially like the page where the bunny rabbits are sitting on the lion's lap singing, particularly because B. always sings the carrot stew song that he learned from an old 45rpm record that was folded into the back of his copy of the book when he was a child: "Carrot stew, carrot stew, it's our favorite thing to do. Get a pot and a carrot or two, and cook up some carrot stew."
Whilst I thought the story and some of the language was quite dated, my little girl often requests another read. And whilst I usually prefer the protagonist (the little bunny in this case) to solve their own problem in a more deliberate fashion, the good karma he's built up offers an acceptable substitute.
