https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/184421.Eugenics_and_Other_Evils
It should be said of Chesterton that he was challenging eugenics when few others were.
And it was Chesterton, ever forward-thinking and prophetic and astute, who took eugenics to task before Hitler even applied to art school.Chesterton’s critique centre on the reality of economic injustice in late-19th and early-20th century England, and how poverty (the primary targets of eugenics being the poor) had little to do with genetics and more to do with poisonous and destructive economic policies.
And it was done contra mundi, during a time when eugenics was considered even more respectable than evolution is today.It doesn't do the book justice to summarize its many arguments, but I'll list a few just to give an idea.-that it impossible to be a eugenicist because while sickness is the same among all men, health is if anything a balance specific to each type.
Or define it?-that eugenicists often argue that poverty and the moral dissolution that comes from it are reasons to use eugenics, but they unconsciously believe that the poor's poverty is always fixed and will or even should ever change.
I was under the impression that this was a book about eugenics, and it was -- but it was also a beautiful defense of property rights, a powerful assault on plutocratic elitism, and an unusually compassionate statement about the dignity and difficult position of the post-Victorian working poor. I expected little from this book, since I bought it on a whim, and it turned out to be one of my favorites. Useful as a balance against Rand's The Virtue of Selfishness.
Especially interesting was Chesterton's categorization of the four types of defenders of eugenics, because these categories can apply to the defenders of a great many social policies, past and present, and they describe well the various kinds of insufficient arguments used in political discourse.
(“Where they will be, and for how long, they do not explain very clearly…And these people most certainly propose to be responsible for a whole movement after it has left their hands.”) Then there are the Endeavourers, who optimistically rely on their honest attempts to deal with a problem, without bothering to determine what the effects of their policies will be.
In fact, Eugenics, which at the time Chesterton was writing was a capitalist conspiracy to keep the lower classes controlled, is now a capitalist conspiracy to keep the world population controlled.
De hecho, la Eugenesia, que en el momento en que Chesterton escribía era una conspiración capitalista para mantener controladas a las clases bajas, ahora es una conspiración capitalista para mantener controlada a la población mundial.
Visto a esta luz, el libro de Chesterton está trágicamente al día, aunque la terminología que emplea y los ejemplos concretos que da no estén actualizados.
I love old, forgotten, underrated books which present good to excellent pictures of now.
Eugenics and Other Evils was published back in 1922 at the beginning of the last century and here we are almost a century later still wrangling over these same issues and heading down the same wrong road, still can't get it right.
I enjoyed this book.
of the detective series, Father Brown, takes the subject of eugenics (population control), the impoverished, and some of the -isms and presents essays of debate and wit linking them all together.
I hope to read more of his works.Eugenics and Other Evils can be read free online at the following.http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/25308https://archive.org/details/cu3192401...
His complete works are contained in 37 (or more) large volumes put out by Ignatius Press, and I will just have to allow that to be my Chesterton commonplace book, though I will continue adding in some of his best.This book, Eugenics and Other Evils, is about what it says it's about, which is odd enough, as Chesterton stays remarkably and uncharacteristically on topic.
I think having a target to dismantle has something to do with it, but not really a whole lot, as he proves the impossibility of Eugenics in a single sentence somewhere towards the middle of the book.
I greatly admire Chesterton and his contemporaries for recognizing eugenics for the monster it was, and without the benefit of hindsight.
Few writers can make me feel so utterly uneducated and dimwitted as Chesterton can.
This book challenged my views on the proper role of government, science, and medicine in society.
One example: he argues that to make vagrancy a crime is lunacy-- circumstances conspire to take away a man's home, so we lock him up for the crime of not having one.
He also argues that the capitalist/industrial system had taken all the bad parts of socialism without the more positive aspects.
To my knowledge, Chesterton was the one of the only voices at the time to speak out against eugenics; certainly he was the only voice who spoke loudly.It is simultaneously frightening, amusing, and enlightening how much the world of today is like the world of yesterday.
So many of the issues he grapples with here (personal liberty, the state, socialism etc.) -- are the same issues we face today.Of course, there are no easy answers and this is exactly what society must come to understand.
SO true.While we have learned much about the humane genome and nature/nurture since then, it's amazing how Chesterton captured the essence of what was essentially to come.
His satirical prose and command of the paradox leads the reader dumbfounded how anyone could accept the tenants that Chesterton argues against in his Eugenics and Other Evils.
Things like state-run birth control and abortion may have been theory back in the late 19th century, but they currently are our reality.Chesterton was ahead of his time, writing during the early 20th century, Chesterton would not live to see the horrors that eugenic ideals can lead to; viz., National Socialism in Germany and the morally repugnant programs conducted by Nazi scientists.
Elegant and sardonic, Eugenics and Other Evils is one giant argument ad absurdum - to which I agree wholeheartedly and completely with Gilbert.Brent McCulley (11/13/2013)
It is terrifying to think that such evil people existed, and perhaps even more terrifying that they still exist today, masquerading their cold-blooded intents under the guise of science and the "betterment" of human society.
If you thought that eugenics and ethnic cleansing ended with the nazis, take a close look at the major heads of the green movement.
Many are calling for a culling of the human race, and where else would they start but with the sick and disabled.
How is it that in a world where we pride ourselves on being so compassionate and tolerant, there can be such a horrific and outright evil way of thought?
Chesterton is really quite enjoyable to read.I often disagree with his premises and outcomes of his thinking, but the thinking itself is something to behold. A brilliant man.Will read more of his.
The reader comes away appreciating Chesterton's rather prophetic denunciation of this "Prussian" issue which gained a following in England and beyond, but this book does not limit itself to one topic.
It is Chesterton's aptness for criticizing, what may seem, both sides of an argument along with his ability to induce laughter while seriously examining the issues that makes him immanently readable.
With this book, come for the intriguing period evaluation of eugenics, but stay for an evaluation of early twentieth century society that is strikingly relevant nearly one hundred years later.
More Chesterton genius in this most entertaining collection of essays on a deadly serious subject.
A marvellous web of paradoxes! Eugenics is back with a new respectability. Therefore, read this.
Bloody amazing.I am kicking myself for not having read Chesterton constantly, continually, and so very thoroughly much, much earlier in my career. And I have no plausible excuse. I was quite familiar with the name Chesterton due to the ongoing friendly rivalry that he had with George Bernard Shaw. And there was always the indirect Chesterton quote that the very famous personality Michael Palin eventually delivered during the opening segment of the  Ripping Yarns  series. Yet I never picked anyth
Bloody amazing.I am kicking myself for not having read Chesterton constantly, continually, and so very thoroughly much, much earlier in my career.
Yet I never picked anything up by Chesterton until about a half-year ago.**This thing might very well have the best opening paragraph in the history of opening paragraphs:The wisest thing in the world is to cry out before you are hurt.
After reading that opening paragraph I'll bet that you want to kick me as well for not having read Chesterton earlier in my career.
it should be painfully obvious to you that I will parry your kick while it is in the air.** This is a typo.
I'm kind of on a Chesterton kick--don't know if you noticed--but I'm still trying to sort his ideas out.
This book is very bold, especially at a time when even U.S. president Woodrow Wilson was a proponent of eugenics and, as the Chesterton society points out "The New York Times gave it constant and positive coverage.
George Bernard Shaw said that nothing but a Eugenic religion could save civilization."And it is as funny and cutting as Chesterton alone can be, with many elegant parallelism.
I mean merely that short words startle them, while long words soothe them.
Chesterton's spiritual vision is piercing, able to see through many arguments and positions to correctly identify the moral dangers and evils behind.
After seeing the damage done over the past decades, I cannot see any secular moral framework being worth much compared to Christianity's.
He applies his skills to expose not only the nonsenses of eugenics and social engineering, but also to the dangers of capitalism unfettered by the constraints of the traditions and moral framework of Christianity expressed through the shaping of England.
It's another classic of Chesterton's, well worth reading.
Yes, he opposed divorce and abortion, probably would be outraged by mere idea of gay pride and homosexual marriage, and would think pretty much the entire notion of social liberalism is an irrelevant red herring...
But he would be equally horrified about the way his "wrong kind of socialism" with inspectors instead of bread and bewildering laws designed to be impossible to comply with unless you're rich became conventional wisdom of a conservative.
A woman viewed as baby-factory "protected" by police from herself and for the benefit of her rich and powerful masters is exactly the dystopian vision he did his best to warn against in his book.
This is a brilliant book, I don't know how I managed to avoid reading G.K.Chesterton up until now.
I wish I'd read this book ages ago, it's easy to read, clear, written with humour and sarcasm at times and it made me think and change my views on things I never really stopped and thought about.Although there were one or two arguments where I couldn't fully agree with Chesterton (perhaps due to my lack of in depth knowledge or analysis of the subject), this is such a current book despite the fact it was written a hundred years ago.
The book is amazingly prophetic.
I listened to David Grizzly Smith's excellent audio podcast of this book, available from Podiobooks.com. I enjoy Chesterton, and I have yet to read anything by him that is less than excellent. This one is scathing and very serious, even though his trademark humor often appears. He takes aim at some surprising targets. In some cases, his critiques left me stunned because they were so unexpected. Brilliant and still relevant.
This book, like Chesterton's Orthodoxy, is a collection of arguments and speeches given in response to the assertions of leading eugenics supporters in England in the 1920s. Many of his thoughts apply to today's battles over abortion and contraception and the government's role in providing them. Chesterton makes a clear and powerful reasoning for keeping the grasping government's hand out of the individual's most private life.
It's amazing how many topics that Chesterton tackled are still with us today. They have different names, but the concepts are still there. I think his main point is the dignity and worth and value of every living soul. No one has the right to trample on the rights of others, even in the name of "helping" them. Some of the allusions are out-dated now, but Chesterton is always biting and bright.
Chesterton can be frustratingly obtuse and then suddenly brilliantly clear. I wished for more of the latter in this book. He argues against eugenics (not only birth control for the poor or feeble-minded, but also the calculated "breeding" of more favorable human specimens) using the arguments of human dignity and human freedom. The other "evils" of the title are socialism and unbridled capitalism.
If one is familiar with the Eugenics argument, then Eugenics and Other Evils is well worth reading. If one does not have at least a basic grasp of the Eugenics argument then I would not recommend this book. There is a good argument for Distributism in the last couple of chapters in this book that are well worth reading for anyone.
The evolutionary connection is even clearer, as the very word "eugenics" and the first ideas about its implementation were proposed by Francis Galton, who wrote in 1863 that "if talented people only married other talented people, the result would be measurably better offspring," his proposal based largely upon the theories his cousin Charles Darwin had published in his book  The Descent of Man.G.K. Chesterton, perhaps alone among the scholars and authors around the turn of the last century, stood firmly against the onrushing tide of the eugenics movement.
It simply destroyed such individual liberties as remained among its victims.Closing ThoughtsIn Chesterton's day, the idea of eugenics took off so quickly because it appealed to those on both the political Left and Right.
Excellent, written 90 years ago, but you would think it was written today- except that Chesterton was a fantastic writer, most modern journalists are not fit to stand in his shadow, and it was a big shadow.
Chesterton is an amazing linguist. Some examples are dated, but the language and concepts involved are not. A great read!
I am thankful that G.K.C. could write a book like this.
great book, gives some good arguments and explanations. interesting read
