https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18901.The_Book_of_Nightmares
1This bookis at leasta weekoverduehaving sat on a table in front of the televisionafter one failed a
In this ambitious work, Galway Kinnell creates a narrator who, in the face of becoming a parent, confronts the nightmares of his culture and his personal history in order to make sense of life and its inevitable “road” to death (73).
However, it is a difficult text to discern meaning from, partly because of the jarring free verse that Kinnell uses throughout the book.
It seems each line was constructed as an individual unit of meaning, creating such varied line lengths that the reader is given only a map of images with which to navigate this narrator’s consciousness.
Little Maud,I would blow the flame out of your silver cup,I would suck the rot from your fingernail,I would brush your sprouting hair of the dying light,I would scrape the rust off your ivory bones,I would help death escape through the little ribs of your body,I would alchemize the ashes of your cradle back into wood,I would let nothing of you go, ever,until washerwomenfeel the clothes fall asleep in their hands,and hens scratch their spell across hatchet blades,and rats walk away from the cultures of the plague,and iron twists weapons toward the true north,and grease refuses to slide in the machinery of progress,and men feel as free on earth as fleas on the bodies of men,and lovers no longer whisper to the presence beside them in thedark, O corpse-to-be …And yet perhaps this is the reason you cry,this the nightmare you wake screaming from:being foreverin the pre-trembling of a house that falls.3In a restaurant once, everyonequietly eating, you clambered upon my lap: to allthe mouthfuls rising towardall the mouths, at the top of your voiceyou criedyour one word, caca!
Chance was that quickly tripping spider of soft fortunes and poisonous heart.
Of such a solid piece of plowshare is Galway Kinnel's epic rubric, The Book of Nightmares.At the overture of contention, the Dissembler tapped his baton upon the aceldama of hope.
As I read The Book of Nightmares, I heard and was ashamed to be caught sleeping, and I leapt up from our shared dream, running now fully awake to my undoing.
This is black arts time, children, but we're too far from the Garden to fear the shadows any longer:"And yet perhaps this is the reason you cry,this the nightmare you wake screaming from:being foreverin the pre-trembling of a house that falls."
Discussed this book here: https://youtu.be/iwzwN2nt_JY
The only way Galway Kinnell could have tried any harder to be profound would have been to randomly pick words out of a dictionary, run them through a thesaurus program for their most obscure synonyms, and then arrange them in correct word order, making sure to line break for the hell of it once in a while.
And a dead hen is even more of a theme.
Because it's dead.
Which is, um, deep.Go be a politician, Galway Kinnell.
i think maybe reading these poems while back home in rhode island was cheating a little, because a) kinnell was born in providence and grew up in pawtucket, and b) i'm in the middle of some semi-existential family realizations, and the book is about kinnell's family and about how we live, in small moments, with the awareness that everything around us (including ourselves and the people we love most) is destined to leave.
one article i read described them as "unlovely." anyway i realize that these reviews make it sound like i cry every time i read a book but listen, i cried over "under the maud moon" in public, in a coffee shop in providence, and i'm not sorry about it.
A broken clock is right twice a day. That is how I explain to myself that I really like these poems. Usually I find Kinnell's poems to be overblown and melodramatic in a way that is unctious at best. These poems, however, really do what they set out to do, and a little melodrama fits the prospectus just right. Here, Kinnell takes risks, psychological and poetic, that I have not seen in the other books of his that I've picked up. In fact, this one is the only book of his that I would recommend, and I do.
The only collection of poetry that has ever gripped me!
I enjoyed it. But it's not the masterpiece I've heard it was from some. The language wasn't fresh enough in places, the symbolism too heavy-handed, or in places the poem felt too easy, or too dramatic. Sometimes it went back to a very superficial place, a very predictable nightmare of the flesh. But there were lines that I really liked. Like "Let our scars fall in love" and "I have felt the zero/freeze itself around the finger dipped slowly in."
I thought I'd heard the old idea that love is what makes our short and moribund lives worth living in so many ways from so many places that surely it could never again have an impact. Then Galway Kinnel comes along and says it afresh, "The wages of dying is love." Knocked my socks off. And it was by no means the only line in here to do so. I had to pick my socks up from across the room about once a page.
why the FUCK is galway kinnell not poet laureate???? somoeone explaiN??? in all seriousness, if you've not read this yet, please go to your local library or the closest bookstore or, if you have to, even order it online. it's worth it. this is my favorite book in the world. it makes me want to throw up in the best possible way. it's disgusting. it's beautiful.
"The wages of dying is love..."Galway Kinnell dedicated this book-long poem to his children, Maud and Fergus. The poems never fail to move me. Birth, death, love, and life's great mysteries. This is truly a Book of Nightmares but there is also sweetness and light--made all the sweeter because our lives and joys are so fleeting.
Well holy smokin' firepits. This is not to be described by any other word but EXQUISITE.
I freaking loved this.
3.5 stars.
I suppose it deserves five stars but since it is a book of nightmares, I will withhold.
Because I'm just that capricious.
Ten poems about death, about desecration, about worms and smells, about war and murder, blood, loss and rotting.
It is about lice and flies and maggots.
It is about betrayal and all that is profane.
It is about our complicity in life's ugliness and crimes.
Poems from a less than rosy viewpoint.
Beautiful language for ugly things.
You should read it because all is ugliness, from a certain point of view.
*2.5*this collection of poetry felt like a word perpetually stuck at the tipof my tongue. i could feel it; i could sense around it; sometimes, even briefly, i could savour it. but in the end, i couldn't grasp it, couldn't really connect its underlying structure as if my mind kept being entertained by the sliver of an intriguing verse only for it to disappear into a mungle, strange background.i don't think i will be reading more collections from this author. so many writers to read, so little time to waste on people who are just not my cup of tea
🖤🖤🖤Ohhh myyy goddd🖤🖤🖤The most important thing I’ve read in a long time. Resolving to sleepily but sincerely read most of it in one irresistible sitting through the stillest hours of night in the company of my most nightly colored cat to then land back on this planet feeling saved— and just in time for witching hour—was an entirely special experience. Thank you
A lot of death. There’s beauty and terror to be found here, but it’s a lot. To be honest, I’m not sure if what Kinnell fears is true.
Read it aloud. It's the only way it makes sense.
nightmarishly beautiful
So I did not want to finish this book.
I think maybe this would make a very good short story collection.I can see how different this must have been when it came out.
It's very different from a lot of things circulating at the time.
I think I would like to give other collections by him a try.
I subject of the collection is intriguing and I have no problems with it.
I just wish I could get with the rhythm a little more.Maybe if in another mood or time when I pick this up I may want to finish it.
The coherence, which can seem incoherent to a careless or inexperienced reader, is achieved through fierce intensity of voice, which works like a poetic super-glue welding into the same amazing long poem: childbirth, a black bear tramping around a campfire in the rain, the frenzied death dance of a beheaded hen, a love affair in Iowa, Plato's concept of divided souls, the Holocaust, a Bach violin recital, the number 10, hair on the poet's back, fleas.Along with Ginsberg's "Howl", Kinnell carries Whitman forward and delivers him into the late 20th c.
i've heard this book length poem is a protest against the vietnam war, but i am not so sure i get that from kinnell here.
i think this helps his images and voices stay with you after you finish the poem.
it is short and i think is best read in one sitting, though that is not what i did the first time.
but what i really got from the book was a poem from a parent to a young child.
letting the child know early that even though the world at a young age can seem wonderful and endless, it is really a life of dying.
i cant believe kinnell went into my home robbed me of all my possessions and told me to choke :/

Reading it again, I find some lines to wince at (the "eldershoes," for example, from "The Shoes of Wandering"--yes, they're funny, but they're more a bit of whimsy than a serious piece of meditative art, which is what the rest of the book aspires to), but I still find much that is pleasing, and in places, astounding in their beauty or meditative intimacy, such as these lines from the ninth of the ten sections:On the path winding upward, toward the high valley of waterfalls and flooded, hoof-shatteredmeadows of spring, where fish roots boil in the last grails of light on the water, and vipers pimpled with urges to flydrape the black stones hissing pheet!
Being somewhat familiar with Galway Kinnell, but having only read a few isolated poems in anthologies, I was unprepared for the power of this collection.
The Book of Nightmares is a dreamlike meandering through fears both real and imaginary.
Things only somewhat make sense, and the impressions created pierce the soul.
But this is not merely a book of horrors.
Kinnell imbues the poems with love--there is hope within the nightmare, but this hope is fleeting, and must be grasped tight.
We back in the times before internet, I read Galway Kinnell's Book of Nightmares as part of a class that I took for my degree in English in college.
It taught me that there was something going on between Native American shamanistic religions and Zen. It blew my brains out and took me years to comprehend.That is what good poetry does.
Kinnell used a very wide palette in the Book of Nightmares and I could not think of a more fitting sentiment to convey to my own children until I wrote my own novel some thirty years later.
Nineteen twenty-seven was a fertile year for poetry. In addition to books by Langston Hughes, Amy Lowell, and Robinson Jeffers, that year saw the birth of John Ashbery, W.S. Merwin, James Wright, and Galway Kinnell.Kinnell's  The Book of Nightmares  may be his best, eclipsing even the  Selected Poems  that won him a Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award in 1982. A single book-length poem, it opens with the birth of his daughter Maud, closes with the birth of his son Fergus, and in many othe
Nineteen twenty-seven was a fertile year for poetry.
A single book-length poem, it opens with the birth of his daughter Maud, closes with the birth of his son Fergus, and in many other ways leans on a cyclical structure in its singular rumination on art, war, death, and rejuvenation.Both intensely personal and brutally social (especially Section VI, on the "VI"etnam War), "The Book of Nightmares" progresses via very approachable language, requiring no scholarly background on poetry to traverse its wondrous, winding paths.
To wit, how many books of poetry originally published in 1971 are still in print?(Quoted from 
