https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/879215.The_Initiation
*2,5*
The Initiation (The Secret Circle #1), L.J. SmithThe Initiation (Originally published: 1992), the first part in a series of works entitled The Secret Circle, is a young adult novel by author Lisa Jane Smith.
Smith is famous for her other works such as The Vampire Diaries and the Night World series.
The novel follows a young girl, Cassie Blake, who moves to New Salem.
She befriends a mysterious group of teenagers who run the high school.
She finds out that she's part of a coven of witches, and on top of that, the boy she's destined to be with is dating her best friend.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: هجدهم ماه مارس سال 2010 میلادیعنوان: شروع؛ نویسنده: ال.جی اسمیت؛ا.
I read this trilogy so many times as a teen that I had to buy a whole new set of books since they were so worn out.
And then I pretty much wore those out too.
I think the novels definitely qualify as guilty pleasures.
I hadn't touched the books in years but when I was moving, I happened to come across my tattered copy and decided to open it up again.
At the age of 25, after having read these books about a dozen times, I found myself staying awake waaaay past my bed time to get that "one last chapter." I think that should say it all.
To this day, I reread my well worn copies with childlike glee, running over in my mind the influences her writing had on my imagination: the fact that for years I wanted to be a parapsychologist, that I love overblown fantasy stories with a love twist, that even now I'm wearing a hemitite bracelet.
The first part of the The Secret Circle triology, "The Initiation" follows along as awkward, kind and somewhat meek Massachusetts transplant Cassie Blake acclimates to New Salem, a town that unbeknownst to her is run by a half-complete coven.
Terrorized by some of the members of the coven and embraced by others, Cassie feels the constraints of her outsider status.
Back home, her friends would probably describe her as "nice, but shy" or "fun, but kind of quiet." But no one here knew that. Maybe this year she'd be Cassie the Extrovert or even Cassie the Party Girl. Maybe she'd even be good enough for the girl with the shining hair."  I started reading this series because I got into the show a few years back, only to find out it was cancelled after one season. I need to know what happens! The book is very different from the show. Both follow Cassie Blake a
Maybe this year she'd be Cassie the Extrovert or even Cassie the Party Girl.
Cassie gets off to a rough start, accidentally making enemies with the school's resident Bad Girls.
I don't know what the deal with L.J. Smith is but in every book I read of hers, the "Bad Girls" have black hair simply described as "dark" or "dark curls" and the "Nice Girls" have fair hair described like "moonlight" or "sunlight".
Book Cassie is dreamy, scared, shy, helpless, and to me that just seemed more realistic for the situation she's in.4.
I would have been as happy as Cassie getting initiated into 'The Club'.
When Diana finally talks to her and they become friends she keeps thinking: "oh, I'm so glad Diana is my friend, would Diana do this, would Diana like that, I would NEVER do anything to hurt Diana" I think I forgot to mention that the boy she's obesessed with is actually (wait for it) Diana's boyfriend (who would have guessed that!) and although she promised she would never hurt Diana, she makes out with him as soon as she can.
I still want to know who killed Kori, and what was that evil thing that they released, so I'll probably read the other books.
Ok, confession: I just ADORE books that have anything to do with witches, vampires, werewolves, etc. This series is such a great read! You will enjoy them if you are into YA.
Girl considering herself different + lonely mom + beach + new home + grandma + new school + witches + secrets + best friend becoming 'older' sister + prohibited love + drama = good way to spend a hot day. Someday I might look back at this series and finish it.
Plus I remember really enjoying the series so thought refreshing my memory might do some goodUnfortunately with reading something years later, you notice a whole lot more.Cassie' mother has decided that they are to move to Salem Falls after she hears that her estranged mother is ill.
How can her mother expect her to just suddenly up and leave a place she has known as home her whole life, and especially since she met that handsome boy with the dog.
Worse yet, you have seen the guy ONCE in your life, and the next time you meet him you suddenly realise that you love him?
Ši knyga tik dar kartą patvirtino, kad mano sritis fantastinės, bet ne per daug, knygos, kuriose pilna paslaptingų dalykų, romantinės gijos. Skaitant šią knygą, puslapiai tiesiog patys vertėsi, rašymo stilius lengvas, kiekvienas veikėjas savaip patiko, iš pradžių maišėsi visi vardai, bet knygai įpusėjus, išryškėjo visų veikėjų tam tikri charakterio bruožai. Šis kūrinys šiek tiek priminė M.Stranberg,Sara B.Elfgren ,,Ratą", tad jei skaitėte minėtąją knygą. tai manau patiks ir šioji. Rekomenduoju visiems, kas yra fantastikos mėgėjai, bet mėgstą tokią, kurioje jos nėra per daug ir yra gan lengvai suprantama.
However, the TV show is completely different, as the book only seems to function as a basic set-up for it.My thoughts on the first part of the book series: It's a fast read, quite a page-turner.
I mean some parts were really great, but others - way too over-dramatic.I also didn't like the characterization.
Personally, and that might be just my opinion, I think there are too many characters in the book.
Basically, every character is described by their hair.
Talk about rushing into things.And despite all of this, I still kinda liked the book.
Καλούτσικο. Ευχάριστο, απλά γραμμένο... τίποτα σημαντικό αλλά δεν είναι κακό. Είναι μικρό και όλα γίνονται πολύ γρήγορα, αν κ η πλοκή δεν είχε τίποτα ιδιαίτερο. Σε κάποια κριτική διάβασα ότι το πρώτο βιβλίο είναι εισαγωγικό, τώρα που το διάβασα κ εγώ μπορώ να πω ότι αυτό το σχόλιο είναι πολύ εύστοχο... πρέπει να διαβάσω και το δεύτερο για να κρίνω καλύτερα.
and yet I never knew this was an actual book series?
I just wanted to carve out my eyes guys!
but then I thought of Mean Girls....and since I know the show so well (not really but let's go with it) Cassie is a bit obsessed over a guy.
I wanted to like these characters but the only thing that kept this a page turner (if I can even call it that) was the witches andthe spells.
The "forbidden" love was meh and I'm pretty sure I only really liked one character out everyone in this.
185Cassie Blake and her mother have moved to New Salem to live with Grandma Howard.
Now, if only Cassie wasn't in love with Diana's boyfriend...This book isn't any good.
It was nothing new and it didn't exactly shock me or anything, but LJ Smith is to me what a V.C. Andrews book was to those who grew up in the 80s.
Unfortunately, this book contains witches, betrayal, and it was made into a short-lived tv show.
But what's done is done.Overall, I would recommend reading this book if you, like me, love witches and drama or if you though the show was great (even though the 2 are very different).
For første gang denne uge frygtede hun ikke for sin stolthed, men derimod for sit liv." Jeg så første (og eneste) sæson af 'The Secret Circle' og jeg var så væk i den og ærgrerede mig også en del, da tv-serien kort tid efter blev aflyst.
Da jeg så, at de søde folk fra Tellerup genudgav bogen og så endda med et sindssyg flot cover, kunne jeg simpelthen ikke holde fingrene væk længere!Bogen var en del anderledes end tv-serien (eller er det omvendt?
Den er fyldt med mystik og sager som læseren har regnet ud, men selvfølgelig ikke hovedpersonen.Dét er noget, der normalt ville kede mig, men...
This first book is amazing!
No wonder it was made into a TV show!
I really love it!
Though I must admit, the book is better than the TV adaptation!
They changed a lot of things from the number of characters, plots, names and even their appearances!
:( I can't wait to read the other books in this series!
I really feel sympathy towards Cassie!
Poor Cassie!
Why is it Adam and Diana needs to be together?
:'( I always wonder if Cassie's mom never left New Salem, is there a possibility Adam and Cassie will  still  end up together without hurting anyone?
She blackmailed Cassie!
She feels out of place and really just wants to go home.
Through the beginning of the book there are subtle hints of magic that Cassie keeps seeing but she doesn’t think that it is even possible so she ignores it, that is until the Club approaches her.
To make matters worse the guy she is madly in love with is dating her best friend Diana, who is also the leader of the Club.
The beginning of the book Cassie is a shy girl, that is until Adam.
Ενα νεανικό δροσερό ανάγνωσμα με έναν αέρα μυστηρίου όπου οι τελευταίες 100 σελίδες σε βάζουν στο τρυπάκι (ω ναι έχει ανατροπή!) να θες να διαβάσεις και το #2 σίγουρα !
am i going to kill all my fond memories about this series? maybeanyway, im going to reread this soon, also full offense, the show was bad and books after #3 don't exist
The story is definitely a guilty pleasure reading, but read in context (a YA book written in the early 1990s), it seems pretty typical.
In this book, however, it felt exactly the way I remember.
This book takes that experience and tells a "what-if" story with it.I also like a lot of the witchy elements.
The book was kind of short and felt like it was just the introduction of the story to come, but, again, this was kind of what those series were like back in the day.This is not great literature, but I liked the book.
After having read the first book in The Secret Circle series, The Initiation, I found myself less than impressed and hoping the producers take some liberties with the story line in this book.The Initiation doesn't do much to endear the reader to Cassie, the series main character.
While I don't expect the series to be much like the movie (especially since the movie was made after the book came out), the possibility for The Secret Circle to have witchcraft used for both good and evil motives delights me.
Perhaps, I was at a bit of a disadvantage going into this book due to having watched the TV series on the CW, prior to reading the first three books of this series.The book is much more different than the TV series is, with a larger cast of characters to fit the coven.
The only characters which the common reader could truly build a bond with was the main character, Cassie.Cassie is a bit of the quiet, shy girl who has a hard time fitting in.
I believe Cassie could have used a little more flourish to her personality to make her the type of protagonist which sets an example for the young readers.
Den fulgte nemlig ikke serien så meget, som jeg havde set, så jeg var meget forvirret og ventede ofte på 'hvornår sker det der', som aldrig rigtig kom.
Derudover får vi et indblik på noget af baggrundshistorien for den magi, der optræder i bogen, hvilket var meget fascinerende, og jeg håber sådan, at det bliver uddybet i de næste bøger i serien.""Kraft er kun Kraft," sagde Diana træt uden at vende sig.
Det er kun den måde vi bruger den på som er det ene eller det andet."" - citat side 245.Denne bog lægger helt klart op til endnu mere magi, mystik og spænding, hvis man vil læse resten af serien.
I read this because the television show looked like something I wanted to watch, if that makes any sense.
Predictable, but short, I think, and not slow.
I feel like it's a little dated.
It definitely reads like the first book in a series.
I know this book predates the Craft, but it's not like it predates teenage girls' interest in witchcraft.
I think it was 12 original families all living on an isolated island and intermarrying since the 17 century?
Wouldn't there be some major birth defects by 1992?
I mean, at the very least they wouldn't all be beautiful, right?
Depending On Your Personal Preferences: There is a large cast and I might even say that the novel is character-driven.
It seems like the story is setting us up for an antagonist with a redemption arc (which is a trope that I personally love).Why You Might Bump This Down On Your TBR: The characters all seem to be white and straight?
The trope of girl-hate is glaringly present.
The plot is basic YA paranormal from the time it was written in, so it's not unique, clever, or well-written.Why You Might Bump This Up On Your TBR: The pacing was fast and the plot progression kept me engaged.
Que no. Que de ninguna manera. Que al medio libro yo siga sin saber de qué va es imperdonable. Ella es tonta. Pero tonta del culo. Tiene una dependencia y una necesidad de aceptación que es cuando menos preocupante. Ese instalove del final que aparece por toda la cara y tras haber hablado una vez no me gusta nada. Y es encima es aburrido, repetitivo y tiene poquísima acción o puntos de interés. Un tostonazo, en definitiva.Reseña próximamente. O no. Depende de si considero que merece la pena reseñar esto...
Купих книгата преди 7 месеца и идея нямам защо чак сега я чета :D Много ми хареса.Имаше мистерия,романтика,убийство и нямам търпение да разбера как ще продължи историята !
you know what?nothing happens in over 3/4 of the book. nothing.
Not too bad, but not great. I hoped it got better, but it didn't. Another series I'm never going to finish.
2nd time reading this book. LOVE IT SO MUCH!! I can't wait to read the next book tomorrow!
