https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/538059.Elbow_Room
A lifetime ago I attended the University of Virginia and took a creative writing class from James Alan McPherson.
His most recent book at that point was Elbow Room; it was a few years old by then and he seemed to have stopped writing altogether, despite the acclaim the book had received (along with a Pulitzer Prize).
He went several years more before publishing another book, and at that point he was writing nonfiction.
Being a dumb undergraduate, it didn't occur to me then that I should read what my teachers had written, so I didn't go near Elbow Room the semester I took McPherson's class.
This book includes one of my favorite quotations ever. "I think that love must be the ability to suspend one's intelligence for the sake of something. At the basis of love therefore must live imagination."This is a really amazing collection of short stories, highly recommended.
McPherson is one of the few writers whose stories depict black and white characters intersecting and interacting--the world of his stories is not the world of the dominant culture, nor is it racially segregated....
This was my favorite story in the collection, because I thought it told the truth about relationships, and about the realization of one character of his place in the world.
In the story, a white character married to a black woman, goes through a slow awakening as he realizes his own whiteness, his own place in the dominant culture.
I haven't knocked out a Pulitzer for a shamefully long time, and theoretically I do not like short stories, so I was just going to work on this, expectations very low.
The title story and one or two others were kind of duds, but the majority were so vivid and engaging that I felt as invested as a novel.
They're pretty old, but they felt very fresh, and many had a subtle ingenuity that made them very poignant.
A big win for the Pulitzer project.
I just wish short stories were easier to discuss.
This is why I theoretically hate short stories.
This collection of short stories from 1975 introduced me to the regional prejudices within the black community of the period. Each story highlights a person's heritage as Southern, Northern, Eastern or Western as significant part of character or personality. The stories I enjoyed the most: "Why I Like Country Music" & "The Story of a Scar." A couple of stories, waxing philosophical, seemed self-indulgent: "Just Enough for the City" and "Elbow Room."
This book written by James Alan McPherson won the Pulitzer Prize in 1978. The book is a collection of short stories that explore America from an African American perspective. I give this book 4 stars.
Extremely well written, but very traditional. I guess I just wasn't in the mood for something so straightforward. The first story was lovely, but over the course of the collection I became bored. Which is really a shame, because the language is pretty masterful. But it has that sort of Updike-y, New Yorker-y feel, just no surprises at all. The final story pushed things forward a bit, so I appreciated that one, but by that time I was ready to be done.
Beautifully written. Some stories really touched my soul.
Pulitzer-prize winning short story collection from 1977.
Like many short story collections, they vary significantly, from slice-of-life stories about the african-american community (mostly involving southern immigrants to Chicago) to more philosophical and experimental stories.
The stories were probably ground-breaking in 1977, less so now in my opinion, although still enjoyable, and the better ones stand the test of time.One beef I had with this edition: there is no information on publishing history.
I have to believe that some if not all of the stories were previously published.Finall, why is this volume (and his other short story collection Hue and Cry) not available for Kindle?
McPherson won the 1978 Pulitzer Prize for this collection of twelve short stories that explore the everyday lives of a eclectic group of people connected to the black community.What I loved about this collection is that it felt so natural, each of McPherson's stories was about events or interactions that you, I, or anyone else could have.
What McPherson does is beautifully take these interactions and experiences and retells them from the perspective of the black community.
I can't imagine someone not liking this collection of short stories.Some of my favourite stories in the collection were:- The Silver Bullet - a comical tale of one man's attempt to join a street gang.
Collections of short stories by James Alan McPherson - some humorous, some serious and very realisti
This was written in the 1970s.
I had reserved it at the library when I read about the author's death and his awards.
The cover of the library's copy is blank so I did not know Elbow Room was a collection of short stories.
The first ones in the book were brilliant, I thought.
Some of the others were a little weird and the weirdest of all was the title story, "Elbow Room." I would definitely say this was worth reading if you appreciate skilled craftsmanship with story telling.
I think I read that McPherson taught creative writing at a major university.
This was the first book I ever picked up by James Alan McPherson. Now, I've marked all of his other stuff "to read." Oh, and, more specifically, I recall being struck by the barber shop in "The Faithful" (can still see it now) and "Just Enough for the City" overall. Others too... but my mind is going...
"Elbow Room" explores the notion of “Who you will be is based on who you marry and where you live.” This story also touches on the idea of family.
That is, both families want their children to “come home,” and live out their lives according to their wishes.
Paul and Virginia are two individuals who are challenging the beliefs of their parents, and of some American stereotypes concerning mixed marriages.
Both characters just want to communicate a message of hope and freedom to others.
They simply allow people to present themselves.” Virginia and Paul had opened their home to people of all races.
These characteristics he would inherit from Paul and Virginia.
These short stories range from straightforward to challenging, all worth the effort they take to read.
Some humor is evident, but I wouldn't read any of these for "amusement" - more thought-provoking.
The humor that resides in these stories is of a very dark and cynical bent, no doubt based on close observation of people with whom the author was intimately familiar.
I probably would never have picked this book up on my own, but I inherited it as part of my mother's collection of African-American literature.
In other words, I can recognize that it's very good, well-crafted, well-written, high-level literature -- just not my cup of tea.
Assigned for a class at university.
I felt like I spent way more time trying to understand what it meant by "grotesque" and how it could help me in my writing than I needed to.
In fact, a friend in the same class said that exact thing about how I was going about it.
It happens sometimes.
It made sense to the professor to assign the book for us to read and discuss, but I didn't like the style and don't think I'll be using the "grotesque" in my writing intentionally.
Might happen by accident I suppose.
I didn't realize this was a book of short stories when I ordered it. It was a Pulitzer Prize winner for fiction, and I've been working my way through the list; this was the next in line. I thoroughly enjoyed the stories in the book. They were often poignant and reflected the sometimes messy realities of life. I would recommend the book to readers who like short stories and those who like to ponder the truths reflected in literature.
“...one pays for what one gets. Nothing- love, recognition, money, power, even a soul at peace with itself- comes without its price. There is, therefore, no such animal as the successful man. There is only a mass of people looking, sometimes in ignorant envy, at the evidence of prices paid that will forever remain secret. Everyone pays. But no one is telling the cost, because sometimes the terms can be too frightening for others to contemplate.”
This book raises some interesting subjects for discussion. The short stories are just wonderful. I wondered if the auther was suggesting that it might not be possible for black and white communities ever to understand and accept each other. Some divide separates us that lies just eyond our comprehension. A very good read.
Now, the thing about short stories is that they are constrained by their length into seeming incomplete in comparison to a novel.
The stories are powerful, but seem to be incomplete.
In fact, I found the earlier stories to be much better than the later stories, at least in terms of descriptive narrative.
The later stories were much more abstract and philosophical, which made them a bit unintelligible, though I found them attractive in the sense that they were experimental for the short story form.
Are they the same basic stories today as they were of the times when this collection was published?
The power in this book lies in the subtlety in the words. "I think it was brown bread. Don't that cost more than white?""In my store, yes.""Sister. Sister ... what is your name?"Yet another book that makes me incredibly proud to be a Hawkeye.
I really enjoyed "The Story of a Scar" and "A Loaf of Bread."
Saw a lot of 1-Star reviews for this one. Those ratings suck and the reasoning even worse. Guy won the Pulitzer. Come on now.
A bunch of very dull short stories. There really is nothing going on in these stories, just some people doing and thinking some boring thimgs. I don't get it.
A collection of short stories that touch the full range of emotions. A fast read that left this reader wondering why this book won the Pulitzer prize.
Collection of 12 short stories about Black lives in the seventies. The title story about interracial marriage would be fitting today. These are stories that makes you think about how much has changed and how much that has not.
Excellent collection of short stories; half of them are as good as any I've ever read and the rest ain't that bad (the title entry left me confused, though).McPherson seems to be a writer than transcends his topics and the genre that he's working within and achieves something well beyond both with an economy that makes some serious reading...fun.Recommended for everyone.
It was an era when both black and white people were looking for a way to see how African Americans fit into society given their new freedom, and McPherson manages to capture that...
The result is a collection of tales that are honest in pointing out the pros and cons of both their characters and of society at large (and often in humorous ways).Again, I have no doubt that upon publication, Elbow Room was considered to be not only an interesting and refreshing look at the lives of African Americans, but also a very important collection that broke down stereotypes.

Elbow room won the Pulitzer in 1978 and is a collection of short stories that McPherson wrote that focused on the black community.
McPherson is an excellent short story writer and as is the case with all the other short story authors I've read they have a particularly somber tone to them.
This was a very quick read - the version I read was 240 pages and most of the stories were in the 20 page range.
In looking him up he is not a prolific writer with only 2 publications since this book and only one before it.
On a side note this is my last 70s Pulitzer
