https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/406165.L_Espoir
Begin in medias res exhort those tale-tellers of antiquity, and so doth Malraux hear and obey - enjoining his 500+ page work on the Spanish Civil War, already in progress.Like the awful war itself this book is a mess, and perhaps it should be, because the reader feels constantly unconnected to the action - so very much in the dark - just as the fascism fighting republicans stay in a constant fog of war.
Vollmann alludes to this book, describing it as a novel that "brings to life with heartbreaking vividness" the horrors of the civil war.
1936 Temmuz’unda başlayıp 1937 yılının Şubat’ına kadar devam eden zaman aralığında, bizzat yazarın katıldığı İspanyol İç Savaşı’ndan bir kesitin anlatıldığı romandır Umut.
Andre Malraux kitabı 1937’de yazmıştır, yani savaşın sonunu, 1939 Mart’ında Madrid’in düşmesini ve faşistlerin zafer kazanmasını görmeden yazmıştır.
Komunistler, sosyalistler, anarşistler arasındaki kayıkçı kavgaları, parti-sendika çekişmesi, C.N.T, F.A.I, U.G.T arasındaki kim daha güçlü kavgaları, parti disiplini adına verilen anlamsız kararlar, idealist Uluslararası Tugay üyelerinin başıbozuklukları, kısaca solun en bikinen hastalığı “ben daha iyi bilirim, ben daha iyi yaparım, ben daha şuyum-buyum hastalığı”.Kitabı bitirdiğimde ilk sayfasında umutla dolu ve aydınlık olan yüreğimin son 550.
Hüzünlenseniz de okumanızı öneririm, sanırım şimdiye kadar okuduğum en gerçekçi İspanya İç Savaşı kitabıdır Umut.
Very good book about the Spanish Civil War - almost in the same class as Hemingway and Orwell. The only problem is the translation - bizarre usage of English slang and odd choices of words muddles most of the dialogue - it's a shame, as it is otherwise a fine book, with many excellent scenes and monologues about the nature of war.
Υπό τους ήχους των δημοκρατικών κανονιών των 155 ή των βομβιδίων που ρίχνουν τα δεύτερης διαλογής αεροπλάνα τους, οι άντρες σκοτώνουν και σκοτώνονται –κι απλώς οι γυναίκες τούς θρηνούν… Βέβαια, για τον Μαλρώ είναι ξεκάθαρο ότι πρόκειται γι’ αυτό που λέμε στη θεωρία «δίκαιος πόλεμος» και έτσι η οπτική του –και η αφηγηματική εστίαση– είναι στο δημοκρατικό στρατόπεδο.
παράλληλα και τις αφηγήσεις του Όργουελ στην «Καταλωνία» του –είναι αλήθεια ότι ο Μαλρώ, ακόμη κομμουνιστής τότε, αποσιωπά τη στάση του κόμματος προς τους τροτσκιστές ή τους αναρχικούς).Είναι γραμμένη εν θερμώ η Ελπίδα κι από άποψη λογοτεχνική.
I tried...But I cannot take 589 pages of SpanishCivil war in French.“…passez mon chemin” ( moving on...)#DNF
It’s a story about men in war rather than a war story.I became fascinated by the details Malraux includes, especially the small pieces of nature that make the book more realistic and poignant.
One character carries a piece of wheat grass with him while waiting in line to be executed.
People in the line waiting execution actually step forward to help the fascists line him up correctly.One paragraph almost overwhelmed me sensorily; the rain patters down, rifles shoot, a machine gun rattles occasionally, people walk or run through the streets, airplanes drone above, the characters move through it talking.
Malraux the hero, the liar, the robber (he plundered Angkor), the coward (his attitude with Clara) and yet we cannot to prevent to like him.
They all are there, Malraux, Orwell, Kessel, Hemmingway.
Remain books of which that one.
The productions is awkward, the hieratic characters, but it is a good reflection of the book.
I ask me the question on the choices that would I have made for this period.At the end of its life, Malraux was devoted to the beauty.
His collection at Gallimard "Universe of the forms" gathers most beautiful works of the ages of the world.
Un des rares livres que j'ai abandonné en cours de lecture, après quand même 250 pagesLa narration, le style, les personnages rien ne m'a vraiment plu.J'en garde un souvenir très pesant, ennuyeux et un peu donneur de leçons.
L'Espoir est un roman écrit par André Malraux qui a paru en décembre 1937 aux éditions Gallimard ; il relate les évènements importants du début de la Guerre d'Espagne, du putsch militaire franquiste du 18 juillet 1936 à la bataille de Guadalajara en mars 1937, où les républicains furent victorieux.
While Malraux was writing l'Espoir, he was still a communist and he, like the other Europeans believed that the conflicting forces in the Spanish civil war were fascism and the people.
Moreover, he tells things he hasn't seen, it's the God-narrator, he's everywhere: on the ground, on the planes, following someone or the other...Why, then, do I love the book?The characters:There are enough characters (Manuel, Magnin, le Négus, Garcia, Scali, Ximenès, Ramos, Heinrich, Leclerc, Polski...) to rival a novel by Tolkien, so many it's sometimes difficult for the reader to keep up.
Sin embargo, no le doy una alta calificación, porque adolece de 2 cosas: En cualquier guerra, se debe narrar lo que ocurre en ambos bandos.
El 99% de la novela narra exclusivamente lo que ocurre en el ejército republicano.
Por otra parte, el autor se explaya, mucho, en describir toda la ideología socialista-comunista que, teóricamente, los republicanos defendían en la Guerra.
Cuando se revisa la biografía del autor, entiendes el por qué la novela tiene estas características.
Sin embargo, es meritorio que haya sido redactada y publicada, porque daba un testimonio del bando perdedor de la Guerra.
El lector sabe que la lucha y la muerte de muchos de ellos será en vano.
Por ello, su lectura es triste porque el lector es sabedor del triste final.Después, algunas victorias del lado republicano nos traen algunas páginas de optimismo.
Pero ya hacia el final, la maestría en la narración de Malraux, cuando describen las batallas finales que inclinarán la balanza de la victoria hacia el lado de los sublevados, convierte esta lectura en farragosa.
La sensación es la de encontrarse en el campo de batalla y la de tener que conquistar el final metro a metro, línea a línea.Un magnífico ejemplo de veracidad narrativa.
This book and me didn't get along, at all!
First of all, I can blame it on a deceptive description at the back of the book that gave me some unrealistic expectations.
It's a novel, not his witness of the times he spent in the Spanish Civil War.But never mind that.
I just couldn't get into the book, into the story or the characters.
There were some dramatic events but...
Don't mind the mark, it's not a bad novel.
Actually I enjoyed some of the conversations between the characters about what is a revolution, and the differences between socialists, communists and anarchists.
Read this when I was 17; I was totally overwhelmed. Reread it when I was 48: what a disappointment! However, from a literary point of view "L'espoir" can be situated on a higher level than Malraux's other ones: there's a better balance between action and introspection. This book is interesting as an historic document about the Spanish Civil War, especially on the great division on the leftist side. But all in all it's too much about the "brotherhood of men in war", focussing on their battle with death, courage, cameraderie and loneliness.
I'm sorry to say that this one sinks into the black hole of the half read book. I loved 'Man's Fate' and expected this to be similar. It's more of a confusing jumble that I at first thought was mirroring the confusion of the war but when one of the characters died and I felt nothing, I knew that this book wasn't for me.
Gostei bastante do livro mas julgo que se encontra uns furos abaixo do Homage to Catalonia.
L'éspoir est le sentiment avec lequel on commence ce livre, l'éspoir de mieux comprendre l'époque et les personnes qui y ont vécu.
Tout au plus on peut citer Malraux même - "Ici nous fabriquons l'Apocalypse, lequel par définition n'a pas d'avenir" .
La République a pérdu justement parce que son mouvement était trop apocalyptique - composé des groupes très diverses venus du monde entier, pour préparer l'apocalypse du statut quo, sans même refléchir quoi ils allaient proposer à tous ces réscapés et "réscusités" par la suite.
A very good war story, much better than it would ever be made into a a movie. Lots of drama and suspense. The good guys lose of course but that's not exactly where it leaves off. Malraux writes semi autobiographically, but obviously saw enough horror and death as he may have not but fictionalized. Kinda sorta probably currently relevant too, with what has been happening in Catalonia and Spain of late. Good one.
"had a walnut in his hand"
É um livro "desequilibrado", com partes francamente boas e outras realmente muito aborrecidas, só para não lhes chamar más!
Alternates between evocative passages of immense prose and long stretches of ennui. Couple that with too many characters too faintly sketched and it is not a Malraux masterpiece.
Hiukan raskaslukuinen teos, mutta usein hienoja hetkiä!
Read By: Steven CarpenterCopyright: 1938Number of MP3s: 13Total Duration: 15:29:24The Fascists invade Madrid, and the International Brigade is forming to stop them.
In this brigade are Manuel, a Communist laborer, and Magnin, an ex-airline pilot.
They must train a hodgepodge of men--both idealistic and despairing--all from different countries.
This arduous training process, coupled with outdated equipment, conspire to keep them from succeeding against Franco.The tragedy of the Spanish Civil War serves as a basis for exploring the human condition in this novel which captures the torture, fear, and bravery of the romantic hero who deeply believes in the rebel cause and enters into the fighting.
This book talks about the Spanish civil war that eventually ended with Franco's victory.
This subject is often overseen by the beginning of WWII, so I hoped to get a good insight from a historical perspective.
However, the view is obscured by the author sympathy for the communists, who, at that times opposed the fascists in Spain.
The narration is somehow confuse and it took me some time to get myself familiar with the main characters.
The pace is growing slow and steady as well as my reading speed.
I have written down some quotes but moderately appreciate the socio-philosophical ideas exposed through the characters.
Surprisingly fresh account of the early months of the Spanish Civil War told as a collective novel from the Republican perspective. Short philosophical discussions on war, leadership, life and death, and especially the positive and negative aspects of partisanship are interwoven with sharply-observed battle scenes. Since the author was a war pilot himself, the descriptions of the air war is especially evocative.
The Spanish civil war covered in this collection of participants and situations. Malraux was an airman on the Republican side, so we can guess that much of the material for this great book was taken from his own experiences. Really nice book.
Maybe it’s my translation or writing style doesn’t work for me, but I found this novel about the Spanish Civil War almost unreadable. It’s supposed to be the masterpiece of that time.Out of Print version.
Malraux's sincerity I guess has been doubted but he could write. If you have any interest in the Spanish Civil War, this is a great snapshot of the early Republican effort from the International volunteers to the Spanish anarchists.
Only marginally better than La condition humaine, and MUCH longer.
This book is a masterpiece nevertheless, i think you can only appreciate it in french because of the complex writing style of Malraux.
