https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/221160.Kiki_s_Memoirs
“Little by little, I made my way into artistic circles, so full of wayward charm… I was so very gay that my poverty didn’t make so much as a dent ; and such words as “kill-joy”, “gloom”, “the blues” were just so much Hebrew so far as I was concerned.” Kiki finds odd jobs and eventually begins posing for artists like Foujita –”the thing that astonished him about me was the lack of hair on my sexual parts — and Man Ray, the Philadelphia-born Jewish photographer with whom Kiki was romantically involved with for much of the 1920s, and whose loving photographs of Kiki –both posing and casual — are one of the book’s highlights.Kiki’s Memoirs is a surprising sparse about Man Ray and the 1920s.
To be read on this song(Kiki's fav song!)Ravel "Ma Mère l'Oye"Beautiful images of Montparnasse:& famous people:and it's queen:will start to live under your eyes!But if you're here for the love story between Man Ray and his muse Kiki, find that she decided to keep everything for herself, as a gem, and let the photos talk!
Weighed down by boorish introductions by boorish men. Their inclusion boggles the mind. Kiki is a woman who we know through the filters of other men - why are we mucking up her story & her voice with others?
This is an odd, but thoroughly enjoyable book. It was originally published as "Memoires" in France, then 20 pages or so were added, it was translated into English by Sam Putnam, and Ernest Hemingway (whom Kiki called "Papa Hemingway") wrote the introduction. Then, this English edition was banned as pornography in the U.S. when it was released, which isn't surprising given the inclusion of a dozen pages of nude photographs of "Kiki's friends." Alice Prinn is a fascinating character and this is a valuable document of Montparnesse's art scene. Recommended.
I heart Kiki. She was a model for Man Ray, Caulder, Modigliani, Foujita, etc.... Ernsest Hemingway writes the forward. What's not to love?
Nonostante il tema interessante (chi non conosce "La regina di Montparnasse"? anche recentemente mi sono imbattuta nella sua figura), gli appunti della sua vita sono farraginosi e non ricreano l'ambiente brillante in cui visse e di cui fu, appunto, "regina". La prefazione di Hemingway sembra scritta sotto l'effetto di alcol :P
I read this book on the recommendation of my father. Maybe the book is better in French than it is in translation. There is a nice absurdist passage about a dead fish that she carries around with her named "Little Antoine" but otherwise it isn't that wonderful. I much preferred Defoe's Moll Flanders. The introduction by Papa Hemingway is fun - apparently Kiki's memoir is the only book to which he agreed to write the introduction. For that reason alone it might be required reading.
Après la lecture de la BD Kiki de Montparnasse, c'est naturellement que j'ai voulu aller un peu plus loin et lire les mémoires de la bouche même de "Kiki", alias Alice Prin. Si l'ambiance est bien là (le Montparnasse et ses peintres fauchés, ses lieux nocturnes), si la gouaille de Prin donne une saveur inimitable, son côté "moi-je" a tendance à énerver.
leghorn
my 2nd read. still a pleasure and all those photos. inspired and source for my poetry book Kiki, of course.
Recomendadísima lectura!! Kiki nárranos de forma moi sinxela aspectos da súa vida sen igual naquel París irrepetible de entreguerras, a non esquecer!
Crap! My life sucks right now. Got this via ILL from the public library and did not get a chance to get to it. Don't ask.
This short (just over 100 pages of Kiki's text) makes a quick read.
The prose is so simple, even in translation, that I couldn't help believing that Kiki was telling the truth about her life and the people she knew.
And she seems to have known everybody in the arts, literature, and entertainment in Jazz Age Paris.
Anyone interested in bohemian life in Paris during the Annees Folles will find this book by the Queen of Montparnasse well worth the time it takes to read.
