https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/307019.Friedrich
The why the 4 star rating you ask?Because this book is very important.
It's not just another Holocaust book.
It's real, it's visceral and it's told from the POV of a child born in Germany in 1925 who is friends with a Jewish boy who is his upstairs neighbor, which makes what happens to the family and the boy that much more powerful to the reader.
It is more powerful if you think the book is non-fiction, as I did when I started to read it.
Incredibly sad, but important book.
I couldn't finish it, but recognize the power and need for books like this.
4, sad, but true, stars.
For German II and III I was the only one that continued, so I had A PRIVATE TUTOR essentially for two years.As a result, we probably did a lot of things most kids wouldn't get away with in class (by "we" I mean "I," of course) - like listening to OpIvy during finals (cos my teacher was bored and since I'd listened to music while I was studying IT ONLY MADE SENSE to listen to it during the test, right?) and sharing snacks and stuff.
Mein Deutsch ist noch nicht so gut, also, nicht lächeln :) Aber ich möchte es versuchen. Okay, jetzt geht's los:Damals war es Friedrich war nicht so schlecht wie andere Bücher die ich lesen muss für Deutsch und Englisch. Der Abschluß war so traurig! Ich gebe das Buch 3 Sterne, weil es am Anfang ein bisschen langweilig war. Die Ende machte aber viel gut. Damals war es Friedrich war eine angenehme Überraschung!
The implacable pull of culture and society on the personalities and actions of children during this time is evident here.The author's matter-of-fact writing was controversial when the book was first published in 1961.
Even today, some critics don't think a children's book should be as morally neutral as this one.
However, I think the author's purpose in doing so is very effective.
Actionable morality is a gradual process in children, so the lack of it should not be a shock in this account.
Highly recommended as one of the very best fiction works on the Holocaust for the middle reader to adult.
In fact, the pace appears deliberate and analogous to the creeping dangers of the Nazi party, that when in full horrific elevation many looked back and realized the day to day progress as one denial after another slowly happened to Jews.This story is told by Hans whose family is struggling.
Generous with his resources, Friedrich's family graciously assists where and whenever they can.As the Nazi party takes hold, Han discovers that his father has a very lucrative job.
The book tells the story of two best friends that witnessed the slow evolution of the nazi party, one is christian, and the other is a jew.
The story is told from the point of view of an unnamed character whose family is struggling in a pre World War II economy.
In comparison to the book "Night" by Elie Wiesel which tells from a Jew's point of view, you can see in "Friedrich" that the narrator sees his best friend lose his privileges from his eyes as he receives benefits for being of different religion.
Ich hab das Buch mit meiner Klasse gelesen als ich in der 6 oder 7 war :)Der Anfang machte mich persönlich schon etwas traurig durch die Schreibweise und als dann noch später schlimme Dinge passierten ( die in Deutschland wegen des antisemitismusses während des zweiten Weltkrieges tagtäglich passierten ), tat mein Herz weh.
:(Auch wenn ich nicht wenig Romane über den zweiten Weltkrieg in Deutschland und den Juden gelesen habe ( Bsp. Die Bücherdiebin & Bis ans Ende der Geschichte ), nahmen mich diese Romane ( darunter auch Damals war es Friedrich ) immer sehr mit.
Best Friends ... A Jew and A Gentile.World War 2 and the Holocaust as seen through the eyes of two young boys.Riveting and heartbreaking.Highly recommended to everyone.
It starts off REALLY slow, and somewhat dull, and then just continues to get worse and worse and worse, throughout the entire book, and things never get better for ANY of the main characters.
This story reads more like a collection of childhood memories just thrown together in snippets, with each chapter seeming to stop abruptly, sometimes without even letting you know exactly what happened to the characters involved, and the next one starting off as a completely different episode, sometimes as much as a year or two later.
The nameless narrator recounts a series of memories that illuminate Friedrich's story as a Jew in German society during the thirties and early forties.
There is no concentration camp or ghetto in this narrative, but rather the gradual discrimination that the family endures, never believing that there is a real threat; never in this century could people revert to the savagery of the middle ages.The narrator explains what he did, what he thought, how the friendship grew & changed, but never seemed to feel guilty or really torn for not doing much to make a difference.
This is the kind of book that already in the first chapter you get an achy feeling in your heart--because you know the happiness within it is so very fragile.
You close the book.
You cry for the boy who is his friend (The unnamed Narrator), Mother, Father, and Herr Schnieder.
There is a scene in which Friedrich relates a story of his first date with a kind, beautiful girl named Helga.
They are only fifteen, and while I don't approve of fifteen-year-olds dating, you only feel sorry for Friedrich, sorry because he has to give up one of his few friends.
Nachdem ich es nun auf einem Flohmarkt entdeckt habe und noch einmal gelesen habe, muss ich aber sagen, dass es doch sehr viel Potential birgt und ich verstehen kann, warum unsere Lehrerin es ausgewählt hat.Es wird die Geschichte von einem namenlosen Erzähler geschildert, der sich mit dem Nachbarjungen Friedrich, einem Juden, anfreundet.
Geschrieben ist es auch sehr angenehm, sodass ich es an einem Nachmittag gelesen habe, aber dennoch klingt die Geschichte lange nach.Ich bin aber auch der Meinung, dass wir es mit 10-12 Jahren zu früh gelesen haben in der Schule, und ich es deswegen beim ersten Mal gar nicht wirklich schätzen konnte.
It gives you an insight into how life was like for Jews during the World War and the hardship they faced.Friederich is the story of a young Jewish boy and his Christian friend during the World War. Although they are both friendly neighbours, it details how their lives changed when Hitler came into power.
Whereas his Christian friend's family benefitted from the changes, Friederich's family were denied rights and segregated from the Germans.
Hans Peter Richter tells the his and fredrichs story of there experience in the holocaust. They are the same age and live in the same town. Friedrich is Jewish. At the beginning of this story Friedrich's family is rich. Hans Peter Richter who tells the story is poor. the book follows the timeline of when Hitler comes into power and starts the holocaust. Hans Peter Richter’s father joins the Nazi party. The book tells the story of how all the jewish family's lose there rights.  This book was alr
Hans Peter Richter tells the his and fredrichs story of there experience in the holocaust.
Friedrich is Jewish.
At the beginning of this story Friedrich's family is rich.
Hans Peter Richter who tells the story is poor.
the book follows the timeline of when Hitler comes into power and starts the holocaust.
Hans Peter Richter’s father joins the Nazi party.
The book tells the story of how all the jewish family's lose there rights.
The story dose cover 17 years though so it dose have a lot to cover in only 138 pages 	I give this book a 3 out of 5.
The slow, sure denigration then destruction of a German Jewish family told through the eyes of their non-Jewish neighbours, particularly their son, in the years following Hitler's rise to power. Told with with a clear, unemotional prose that is devastating in the apparent simplicity of its storytelling. 'Friedrich' brings home the human cost of extreme prejudice and mob politics like no other book I've read. It's suitable for anyone above the age of about 12.
Story through the years told by Friedrich's best friend concerning treatment of Friedrich, a Jew living in Germany. Not a happy story but what life was like as Hitler came into power. A quick read but well-worth getting as this period of time should never be forgotten. Recommended for 12 year old and up.
This book was a real snooze. The narrative was more a collection of memories, rather than a true narrative. I don't recommend this book.
The beginning of didn't catch y attention, but toward the middle of the book did.
Classroom 7th grade
On the other hand it feels like the author is deliberately tip-toeing around mentioning what the Holocaust actually was.
I think the term “concentration camp” is mentioned once and Friedrich (somewhat implausibly, given that he’s not even properly in hiding and would have already been imprisoned at the time) dies from a bomb because he isn’t allowed in the air raid shelter rather than being murdered by the Nazis directly.
It feels like the author is deliberately downplaying the scope of it all (which isn’t really necessary or, imho, a good thing to do, even in a book aimed at children.)
This book is about the boy who was Jewish, and lived in Germany during World war 2.
His name is Friedrich, and he live in the apartment with his father and mother.
Then after Adolf Hitler become started the NSGAP, (National Social Germany Workers Party) Friedrich's life become more harsh.
In this story, the telling person is the boy that was same age as Friedrich, and living in same apartment.
His name is unknown, but he and Friedrich played a lot even after boy's father joined the party.
This book is the great book to know what happened in the Germany during World war 2 from two perspective.
This story takes place in the 1930’s in Germany.
A orphan boy named Friedrich,who was orphaned because his mother died and his father was arrested and deported back to his home country (Germany).
Friedrich who is a Jew who develops a friendship with his neighbor who is not Jewish.
Friedrich gets expelled from school because he is a Jew and ends up having to move to a concentration camp when Hitler came to power.
There is a life lesson to be learned from this book is when strangers tell you to get out of a place, do it and tell your parents what happened.
Ich habe die einfache Weise gemocht, wie der Erzähler von seiner Begegnung mit Friedrich, einem jungen Juden, berichtete, und folgende Ereignisse, die ihre Freundschaft im Laufe der Jahre gebildet hat. Vom Anfang an (in den 30er) war sie vom Nazi-Regime überschattet, zuerst war es nur angedeutet, dann wurde es immer krasser, bis zum letzten Moment...Die Sprache ist sehr schön, man hat den Eindruck, dass einfach Erinnerungen erzählt werden. Die Figuren sind sehr interessant geschildert, der Leser kann sich wohl die damalige Gesellschaft und die verschiedenen Haltungen vorstellen. Dazu ist die Erzählung sehr berührend. Dieses Buch hat mich tief bewegt.
It was heartbreaking. As tedious as the main part of the book was, Frederich is an eye-opening story, revealing the injustice the German government did towards Jews as well as society. The reader experiences the discrimination developing piece by piece through the eyes of a young boy who is friends with a Jew. He experiences everything first hand without every getting hurt, not until within the last forty pages of the book.
This book touched my heart and shattered it. Here you follow a little boy who is friend with the boy upstairs. Life gets tougher for the narrator’s friend and his family and all because they’re Jewish. Following the events of the Holocaust and witnessing the innocence of these boys get perverted and twisted made me feel ill and broke my heart. Full Review at: https://beentherereadthat.blog/2017/1...
We've all heard about the holocaust one way or another. Being in Asia, most of my knowledge was limited to the activities during WWII. This book puts the events into context for me. The timeline is a clever way of registering the changes.
This is one of those books where the the character narrating the story is not the one facing the problem but instead is watching him/her face the problem.
I had to read this book for my school and it is definitely one of my favorites on WW2.
I gave this book half a star less because I feel that there is something missing from this book(other than the fact that we do not know the name of the character that is narrating the story) that did not make it five stars.
I’d definitely recommend it though!
It was okay. The story didn't have a great ending. It was rather abrupt.
While it did get dull at some parts, the beginning and the ending was amazing.
I read this for class. What you would expect to happen happened. It was well-written and I liked the POV.
