https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/251688.Breakfast_at_Tiffany_s
Unlike Audrey Hepburn’s adorable Holly, who needs a knight in slightly-rusted armor to save her, Capote’s girl is a “wild thing” who cannot be caged, trained, or rescued.I can’t deny that the film is a classic and is one of my favorites.
She wants to seem as though she’s making a holiday out of life, but struggles with the need for stability and the desire for freedom.The book I read also included three of Capote’s most famous stories, and I’d be remiss not to mention them as well: House of Flowers, A Diamond Guitar, and A Christmas Memory.
3 delicious hours of audio read by Mr. Michael C. Hall aka Dexter!!! What a wonderful performance of Truman Capote's novella! I saw the movie years ago but I've never read the book! I'm so happy to have listened to this edition of the audio!5+++++Stars for the narrator!5 Stars for the story!Highly highly recommended!!!
Breakfast at Tiffany's: Truman Capote's Novella of Love or Something Like It "If she was in this city I'd have seen her. You take a man that likes to walk, a man like me, a man's been walking in the streets going on ten or twelve years, and all those years he's got his eye out for one person, and nobody's ever her, don't it stand to reason she's not there? I see pieces of her all the time, a flat litle bottom, any skinny girl that walks fast and straight--...It's just that I didn't know you'd be
Breakfast at Tiffany's: Truman Capote's Novella of Love or Something Like It
I know that I still think of her and on some days, like Joe Bell, the bartender, I see bits and pieces of her as I walk the city streets, especially when the sun illuminates the gold, the white, the platinum of a feminine head of hair as if it showed on no other person on boulevard, no matter how bright the sun.
Well, that was Blake Edwards' idea of what Holly Golightly looked like.
"Never love a wild thing, Mr. Bell," Holly advised him.
I must see the film now...(see below)The atmosphere of the book is a sort of bohemian yet preppy post-Beat decadence but with a tragic sexism that poisons Holly's relationships with everyone except the narrator.
It is more the external elements (the weather in New York, the changing seasons at the farm, the bee prophecy and the wind respectively) that color the psychology of the characters and their ambiguous fates.I loved these stories and will read more of Truman Capote's work.I started watching the movie with the amazing Audrey Hepburn as Golightly and George Peppard as "Fred" and find it captures the essence of the relationship between these two characters.
Because I am indecisive, let's make lists.Reasons The Movie Is Better:-Audrey Hepburn plays a considerably less racist and foul-mouthed Holly, which is nice.
But let's be honest: Holly could spend the entire movie snorting crack off a sidewalk and Audrey Hepburn would make it the most elegant and classy crack-snorting anyone had ever seen.
Reasons The Book Is Better:-Mag Wildwood, a mere caricature in the movie, gets more lines, personality, and scenes in the book.-Holly is eighteen at the beginning of the story, which makes her instantly more of a badass teen slut, which I admired her for.
Perhaps the most famous of Capote's works, Breakfast at Tiffany’s charms the reader with wit and a lively storyline.
Its subject is the short-lived friendship between a straight woman and a gay man living in New York during the early '40s, its theme the yearning for deep connection and a sense of belonging.
In spite of Capote's ethereal prose and dazzling imagery, an excruciating sadness suffuses the novella: none of the self-destructive characters find what they long for by the end, and it seems unlikely that they ever will.
What on the surface appears to be a wistful bit of fluff, then, is in fact far more sorrowful and complex.
A charming little anecdote about some ruby-rare bright young thing & ensuing crew--delightly-ful! To be read in a complete sitting in some secret well-lit garden with a basket of tea and crumpets. Necessary as stress relief and sweet as a caramel. Another plus for the already egotistical NYC, Holly Golightly is heavily embossed onto the overall structure itself.
I’m struggling to figure out what makes this quite so great, it could be Truman’s beautiful limpid style which winds its sentences through your inner ear so that you might think that language itself had been melted and turned into vanilla frosting or it could be that this is the sweet sad little tale of a guy who met this creature and got stuck permanently in the friend zone, and kind of almost didn’t really mind because at least the friend zone was something and not nothing, that’s how entranced he was, or it could be that one of the major characters is a cat.
But this novelette is a small 100 page thing, a drifting fragrance, a single chord, a glint, a hello then goodbye too soon, too soon – ah yes, itself therefore being the perfect embodiment of the Holly Golightly experience.
So, of course – that’s why.
So begins Truman Capote's classic Breakfast at Tiffany's, the tale of New York society girl Holly Golightly.
Growing up I knew Aubrey Hepburn as Eliza Dolittle and Tiffany's as a diamond store, so I envisioned Breakfast at Tiffany's to be a tale of the upper crust of New York society dining at the Plaza Hotel.
Because the novella is only 100 pages in length, Capote tackles all of these ideas while really building up Holly's character.
Again, this device enabled me to read the novella in one sitting so I could find out whether or not Holly ever ate breakfast at Tiffany's.
As someone who grew up in the 90s, this was in my head the whole time I read this:I have never seen the movie, so the only idea I had in my mind is this iconic image of Audrey Hepburn as Holly Golightly:But, what I actually got was this:Holly is crass and obnoxious with really no redeeming qualities.
She is rude to her enemies, and even worse to her friends.
She smokes to excess, drinks to excess, is promiscuous to excess - she is just wild, crazy, and destructive.Reading this was like watching a train wreck - but I kind of liked it.
I couldn't look away!
Both heroines exhibit a frank and earthy, almost playful sexuality that is intoxicating to the male characters, who pine and lust with barely contained libido.Finally, I see similarities between Capote’s themes and settings and Hemingway’s 1926 novel The Sun Also Rises, especially between the tense platonic relationship concerning Holly and the narrator and Hemingway’s Lady Brett and Jake.
Both male narrators are sad caricatures of voyeuristic and doomed love, both pale also-rans to the Latin rivals.In Holly Golightly, Capote has created an archetypal American woman of the twentieth century, at once sexual and material, yet in a playful, teasing and fun way.
The theme that unites Breakfast at Tiffany's with the three much shorter stories in this volume is the powerful bond of friendship between unexpected people or in unusual circumstances.The title story is a male fantasy - so I wrote in 2010.
As Carmen says in a comment, she's what we'd now call a Manic Pixie Dream Girl.HollyThe story is of course about Holly Golightly, a charming but utterly self-absorbed, mysterious fantasist, full of intriguing contradictions.
“If you let yourself love a wild thing. You'll end up looking at the sky.” Told in a reflective and almost lyrical tone, this is the story of a writer, referred to as 'Fred', who reminisces about the neighbor he fell for back in 1943. The thing is, I’m not sure if we ever get a glimpse of the real Holly Golightly.An enigma of sorts; Holly’s not one to get attached or share much of anything about her past. She avoids the truth by putting a fun and often ridiculous spin on things and she’s full o
You can’t think of the movie, read this book, or in my case listen to the audio without picturing Audrey Hepburn as Holly.
Having seen the movie several times before listening to the audio, it felt to me like a piece of the story was missing.
With a very different ending, the book didn’t come across as the great love story the movie did.
It almost makes me cringe to say this, but I actually enjoyed the movie a tad bit more than the book.The crazy cat lady in me has to mention how heartbroken I was that Holly left her “cat” behind, too.
Holly Golightly was a dreamer extraordinaire or as Capote put it, a "lopsided romantic" whose trait of personality would never change.A poignant line which I think best captures a major theme of the novel is Holly's observation late in the novel that: "it's better to look at the sky than live there; such an empty place, so vague, just a country where the thunder goes and things disappear."Though I've lived all my life in the American South, I'm not a redneck.
She is irrepressibly 'top banana in the shock department', and one of the shining flowers of American fiction.Holly is a petite little bundle of scandal in World War II New York society.
Holly loves easily and leaves easily.
Then she gets in some legal trouble and goes on the lam, leaving the narrator to pine wistfully over her postcards from Brazil or wherever she's fled to.It's a cute, almost whimsical novel, and was probably much more scandalous when it was written.
"Anyway, home is where you feel at home. I'm still looking." Ok, I no longer believe in 'never Judge a book by its cover'. I read this one mainly because of it's cover. Have you ever feared being trapped by love and similar demons? It is basically about that fear. "You've got to be sensitive to appreciate her: a streak of the poet. But I'll tell you the truth. You can beat your brains out for her, and she'll hand you horseshit on a platter." There are some people who, in their easy going and w
Have you ever feared being trapped by love and similar demons?
There are some people who, in their easy going and wanting-to-include-everyone-in-their-joy ways become highly likeable to sensitive souls, the sensitive folks find themselves emotionally invested in them only getting indifference in return.
Sometimes, these people, just as Holly was, are as sensitive as others but have decided that they won't let themselves caged down even by other' love.
We look at the birds flying in the sky and are envious of their so-called 'freedom':
"and believe me, dearest Doc -- it's better to look at the sky than live there.
He actually presents a lot of reasons to dislike Holly, but he is also careful to temper that with some information that probably elicits a sympathetic reaction to other parts of her life.The story doesn't gloss over her negative qualities, but it does present details that complicate these downfalls.
This gives a better idea of why she does whatever she must to survive.The tone is very different from the film, and there is no fairy-tale love in this story.
Although Holly actually mentions Tiffany's (and having breakfast there) just a few times, I think her reference to it tells you a lot about her character.
When I started reading this book, because I haven't seen the movie, I thought Audrey Hepburn's name was Tiffany.
Through college I saw so many posters with her face and "Breakfast at Tiffany's" somewhere on the image and that is what stuck in my head and I still have a tough time thinking anything different.
When I found out the real reason the title is what it is, I was disappointed that this book was an early version of product placement, but even with all of that said - Breakfast at Tiffany's is a great book.
I'll probably read it again, and I'm going to watch the movie as soon as possible.
Marilyn or Audrey? Who do you think?When Audrey was cast, Truman Capote remarked: “Paramount double-crossed me in every way and cast Audrey.” In one of the most iconic scenes in film history, it would be impossible to think of anybody other than Audrey Hepburn wearing the “Little Black Dress” while looking into the window of Tiffany’s. Well, if it had been up to the author of the book on which the movie is based, Truman Capote, it would have been Marilyn Monroe. In fact, he wrote the book with h
Who do you think?When Audrey was cast, Truman Capote remarked:
Well, if it had been up to the author of the book on which the movie is based, Truman Capote, it would have been Marilyn Monroe.
The bookBreakfast at Tiffany's, set in 1943, documents the friendship of a New York writer (whose name is never mentioned) with his neighbour Holiday (Holly) Golightly.
Was Holly Golightly a prostitute?In a 1968 interview in Playboy, Truman Capote addressed the question:
"Would you elaborate on your comment that Holly was the prototype of today's liberated female and representative of a "whole breed of girls who live off men but are not prostitutes.
A magnificent, elegant and historic classic, Breakfast at Tiffany's is a short but unforgettable book featuring a mysterious woman and the misadventures of her daily life in the 1940's.
And such is Holly Golightly – she doesn’t live, she’s travelling light… Exactly like her name may suggest.Her bedroom was consistent with her parlor: it perpetuated the same camping-out atmosphere; crates and suitcases, everything packed and ready to go, like the belongings of a criminal who feels the law not far behind.She doesn’t want to exist in reality, she doesn’t want to grow up, and her life goes on as though she lives in a dollhouse.“You’re wrong.
Scott Fitzgerald.Holly Golightly believes that there is a crock of gold hidden at the end of the rainbow…I don’t mean I’d mind being rich and famous.
She crept into my thoughts regularly for months after reading the book, and I still think about her quite often to this day, like a long-lost lover, but more fondly.I've never quite enjoyed prose like this either.
The pacing is perfect.It's one of those books that you read, and when you finish it, you're a little sad, because you know you found THAT book, and you know you'll probably never find a book you like this much again.I want to say something bad about it, but I just can't think of anything.
Holly Golightly, the heroine of Capote's 1958 novel, is one of the iconic characters in American literature. And Audrey Hepburn's portrayal in the movie three years later helped to assure Holly's immortality.
Oh, screw it, cookie -- hand me my guitar, and I'll sing you a fada in the most perfect Portuguese." Her story is narrated by her upstairs neighbor, an aspiring writer, who befriended her, despite a downstairs neighbor, Madame Sapphia Spanella's outspoken wrath against Holly:  "A crude exhibitionist, a time waster, an utter fake, somebody never to be spoken to again".
"Fred's a soldier," said Holly.
He's pretty stupid." "Fred's that boy upstairs?
Someone who could be loved; a young woman who could become a friend.
The most important difference was to portray Holly as an innocent young woman who did not prostitute herself in the movie.
Breakfast at Tiffany’s is about a beautiful, young woman, Holly Golightly, living her life to the fullest no matter the cost.
The story was narrated by her apartment neighbor and eventually "best friend" who Holly referred to as Fred.One: I never watched Audrey Hepburn’s 1961 film, Breakfast at Tiffany’s, or I might have watched bits of it because I know the ending.
I LOVE Audrey Hepburn, and I am ashamed that I never watched this classic film.
I am giving it a 4 star because of Audrey, being a classic novel,  Holly, and the  symbolism.
A wild animal, like Holly (another symbolism), should never be caged.
I listened to Breakfast at Tiffany's as an audio, which is a perfect way to absorb this one. I'd never seen the movie and I've never read the book, but the characters and story felt very familiar. This is probably because the dance between the naive adoring narrator and the elusive Holly Golightly has become somewhat iconic. I love Capote's language. With very few words, he conveys very clearly what is going on between the characters. And the audio is lovely.
This backwards (at times almost nostalgic) glance at a life which had all but vanished from anything but memory (the whimsically kind and cruel and slightly tragic Holly Golightly) reminded me more of Willa Cather's My Antonia than Capote's other seminal work, In Cold Blood.
Of course, Antonia and Holly Golightly have virtually nothing in common except in how they occupy the center of the narrator's imagination.
When Jim Burden explores Antonia's character, he discovers depth he didn't fully understand when he was a boy.
The narrator of Breakfast at Tiffany's finds a disarmingly charming shallowness in Holly that hides complexity neither he (nor the reader) can fully understand.
It's a delightful read and Holiday Golightly easily absorbs you into her life."You can't give your heart to a wild thing: the more you do, the stronger they get....
Through their interactions together, "Fred" also meets a number of interesting characters intertwined with Holly's life.
Truman Capote does a brilliant job of writing and describing these characters and their settings, that it is easy to imagine the scenes of the book.Through these interactions and the revealing and unravelling of characters, you begin to understand that Holly's life has had some very dark moments, despite her usual put-together appearances and fun lifestyle.
Holly's character is definitely a tease and her life-style sounds so interesting.
If an animal and a human choose to journey through life together, that's one thing, but she doesn't believe in owning animals.This is so shocking and revolutionary in a 1958 book, it's amazing how Capote has captured Holly and all her feelings in this way.
I had never read anything by Capote before, and I was surprised to find out he can actually write.
I hate when an author is very hyped and then I read his/her work and am like, "Meh." Or "That was terrible." No, Capote is a classic for a reason, apparently.
It’s a brilliant character sketch, 150 pages you can polish off in a day.
The story of a fascinating, seriously flawed young woman who moves to New York in the 40’s leaving Hicksville (view spoiler)[ along with her husband & his children (hide spoiler)] behind and reinvents herself as Holly Golightly, in the process losing all sense of who she is.
Agree with Norman Mailer who said he "would not have changed two words in Breakfast at Tiffany's" I’ve been thinking about Capote lately.
Agree with Mailer - he shouldn’t have changed 2 words, just think he needed to add a couple of thousand more.
