https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/973214.Donovan_s_Brain
She went at length to describe Donovan's plot while it just so happened that I was halfway through reading a more recent Siodak novel “City in the Sky” (1974) at the time.
You may have seen one of a few movies versions based on this novel "The Lady and the Monster" (1944), "Donovan's Brain" (1953), and "The Brain" (1962).
I've only seen the latter version as of yet, however, the novel did not come off as a cheesy scifi B-movie.
you want pulp? you get pulp! fun, fantastic, quick, darkly comic... perhaps because i know it has been made into a movie (3 times, seen none), i read it like a movie script, that is, not much intense psychology, only everything visual, close-up, tracking, lighting, montage- this short book could be black and white 'b' feature, you could make it lurid, dramatic, crazy, made for drive-in theatres. in any form this could make a fun movie... so i am hesitant to see how the movies actually do it...!
A very enjoyable novel, a classic of sorts. A good story solidly written, with no small talk or useless musings so dear to psychological fiction.
This is an underrated work of excellent science fiction. Though its premise may at first seem familiar or cliche, it is anything but. A truly unique story with substance, psychological intrigue, and fascinating ideas, from the midst of the golden age of scifi.
This is basically a study of a sociopathic personality and the conscienceless havoc he inflicts on the lives of others.
The sci-fi side allows us to see this personality both in life (through discovery, Donovan dies at the start of the book) and after death as his brain eventually controls the doctor who preserves it.
This sci-fi conceit allows us to see the sociopath in control of another person's body in many ways and to see how far he could go.
I could not fall under the spell of that part of the book.
TWILIGHT ZONE fans may enjoy this book.
Curt Siodmak was the father of modern werewolves as Stoker was to vampires, but he also wrote some excellent other stories, Donovan's Brain being among the most prominent. It's a classic medical horror/mad scientist tale; the original brain-in-a-jar novel. It was filmed several times, as well as being dramatized on radio, the most notable that I've encountered being the 1944 Orson Welles version on Suspense. Welles' repetitious catch-phrase of "Sure, sure, sure!" was a real chiller! It's a great old classic, well worth revisiting.
Spooky stuff, although not really very deep or meaningful. Very interesting treatment of women, too.
He sees Schratt only in terms of his usefulness to his own goals, he has no other human relationships - in fact he seems emotionally dead, interested only in his research.
Siodmak explores the impact of obsession on relationships, first through the empty shell of Cory’s marriage, then through observation of the effects Donovan in life had on his family and close associates.As the novel is presented as a series of entries in Cory’s journal, there is an element of the unreliable narrator here, but this is offset by that narrator’s devotion to a scientific worldview - he records his events, thoughts, actions, emotions, with a certain level of detachment and self-honesty.
Curt Siodmak's 1942 book "Donovan's Brain" apparently was the basis of three B movies:- Lady and The Monster (1944)- Donovan's Brain (1953)- The Brain (1962)I'm pretty sure I foolishly watched at least one of those movies in my youth.
Unfortunately, in terms of literary merit, this book is in the same mold as those movies: bad and cheesy.
I'm giving it an extra star because it's supposedly a cult classic and because the dribs and drabs we collect on one of the psychopaths are somewhat interesting.
I'm rating the book at a Pretty Bad 2 stars out of 5.
https://nwhyte.livejournal.com/3011851.htmlA short novel which was the basis of several memorable films.
Our protagonist, a mildly corrupt doctor in a desert town in the Western USA, rescues the brain of evil millionaire Donovan, who is fatally injured in a plane crash, and finds a way of keeping it alive; but the brain is stronger than its human minders, and manipulates them to continue its original owner's evil plans of various kinds (notably perverting the course of justice).
It's a basic horror plot of possession, but there's a tremendously convincing air of despairing degeneracy about the entire story (the narrator is disgusted with himself) and nods to the latest technology as of 1942.
Lets put a brain in a jar.
What could go wrong?
Donovan's Brain reminded me a lot of Frankenstein.
It wasn't nearly as good but it focused a lot on the you really shouldn't do, as wells as the possibly mad science or at least driven scientist.Well what can go wrong?
apparently it was insane before and got psychic powers to control people.
This will not end well...is it good?
well it was entertaining in a watching the train wreck way, but the characters were not sympathetic, sometimes a little flat, and their was some sexism and racism.
Eventually, the brain develops telepathy with the doctor and the sociopath Donovan is unleashed.
This is a quick read, the action propelling forward at a fast rate, although there is still time for Siodmak to ruminate on the nature of humans in stressful situations and relationships.
The answers to the mystery of Donovan's actions unfold neatly and logically.
Perhaps not great literature, this book nevertheless is entertaining and thought provoking, serving as a model for many subsequent stories of science gone too far.Note: a couple of times the book uses a racial slur to describe characters.
Donovan's Brain is dated and still a great read. The science has been surpassed (you probably don't want to know how and why, it's neither pretty nor pleasant) but you should be reading this for the story and how people deal with the events therein, not for the science. Do you read HG Wells' First Men in the Moon then go looking for Cavorite?
Read the book. Saw the movie. Enjoyed both. The concept is wacky but Siodmak convinces you it could happen. It comforts me that science has never achieved this. The ending is a cheat, but I don't really suppose there was any other way to do it.
This was probably the first SF novel I read and it was great. A few years ago I wondered if it was as awesome as I remembered, so I reread it. I was ecstatic to find that it stood the test of time and delivered the same magic as when I first read it soooo long ago.
I wanted to read this because a line from this book is used in IT.
Dangerous book, but a good one!
My longer review of this book is posted at CrapLookingBooks.com“Dr Patrick Cory is being destroyed by a brain which he recovered from a dying millionaire.”That’s a pitch and a half right there.
Somewhat estranged surgeon Dr Patrick Cory saves the brain of a millionaire who happens to crash his plane nearby.
I’d recommend it if you fancy a study in driven characters, and if you’re the sort of person who questions your own motives or forgets why you like the things you do.NickxxMy longer review of this book is posted at CrapLookingBooks.com
this is one of the greatest horror books I've read in a while, and I would never have picked it up if not for Stephen Kings praise of it in Danse Macabre.It is short, focused, savage little book, composed, structured and written like a crime novels of its day.
But at the same time it plays wonderfully - and nastily - with issues of identity, and the blurry line between life and death.
It's the best novel on mind control I've read, and leaves Carrion Comfort in the dust.
(even the smoking plays into its obsessions with control and manipulation).I'd encourage you to check out this neglected masterpiece.
The visualisation of the brain under the glass dome with cables attached to it, next to a man in white clothes having a shocked expression on his face can be seen in many pulpy cover pictures of this time.
And not only this fact, also the whole style of the book gives us this nice retro 50s feeling.Written in the style of a diary, the protagonist describes the story of an experiment going awry leading to the loss of control over his mind and body.
Therefore it is no wonder, that I was constantly reminded to the even more classical tale of "Dr Jekyll and MR Hyde".
Stephen King recommended book in Chapter 2 of the Berkley's 1983 paperback editon of Danse Macabre. He says: "the flow of his speculative ideas in Donovan's Brain is as exciting to follow as the flow of ideas in a novel by Isaac Asimov or Arthur C. Clarke, or my personal favorite in the field, the late John Wyndham. But none of these esteemed gentlemen has ever written a novel quite like Donovan's Brain, in fact no one has."He also says it "moves from a scientific basis to outright horror."
Tem ficção médica com algum jargão mas o tema central é metafísico.Nota-se a idade do texto ao tocar em alguns conceitos sociais datados como se fossem normais e nota-se a idade da tradução com algumas falhas ortográficas. Interessante o fenómeno central da história embora os acontecimentos em si sejam bastante banais. Esta história escrita nos últimos 50 anos teria facilmente mais elementos de fantasia e suspense.
I should rate the book on its merit as a stand-alone novel, but in my line of work it's often the consequences of the novel that help me find a rating. Donovan's Brain is one of those rare works of science fiction which regularly remind you of similar events, even tropes, of subsequent works. Even simple threads like the tongue twister are evidently influential on later writers from John Wyndham to Stephen King. A decent book that should hold a strong place in the realm of speculative fiction.
My hardcover, published in 1944 on a 1942 copyright, has pages already in the progressive stage of brown-and-brittle. I may outlive it. Story told in the form of a journal. Pages gathered in large and glued to a mesh. Strong cover. No DJ. Prices on Amazon this date: $182.50 to $450.00. (2-14-2010).
The novel may be from the 1940s. But if you replace Donovan's brain by a general-purpose artificial intelligence and the psi stuff by internet-based big-data analysis, surveillance methods, extortive data manipulation etc., then you'll get an impression of the dangers on mankind's way to the technical singularity.
How often does a guy named Donovan get to read a book named Donovan's Brain? It was an enjoyable inside joke for me on my train rides this week. But silliness aside, this is a very enjoyable, quick read and like good sci-fi it poses an interesting social/moral question worth pondering...
One of my favorites from my youth, a terrific mix of pulp sci-fi with just the touch of horror. "Amidst the mists and coldests frosts he thrusts his fists against the posts and still insists he see the ghost."
1942 1st edition hardback
read some time in 1982
I had the pleasure of being invited over for dinner to the author's home. The book is fascinating. The hidden reference to the founder of the CIA, William J Donovan, rather subtle.
