https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/152380.Mary_Poppins
"I’ll stay till the wind changes," she said.  The naughty Banks siblings (having just ran off their previous nanny) are in for the surprise of a lifetime. Their new nanny, Mary Poppins, is quite unlike anything they've ever seen. She slides up banisters, uses a compass to travel the world, talks to dogs and buys them gingerbread from stores that aren't even there. In short, she's perfect. “Mary Poppins,” he cried, “you’ll never leave us, will you?” Reading about Mary Poppins - nanny extraordina
Their new nanny, Mary Poppins, is quite unlike anything they've ever seen.
Reading about Mary Poppins - nanny extraordinaire - lead to quite the revelation.
Little did I know that her book version was quite different.
Mary Poppins was very vain and liked to look her best.
Book and movie version of her does have a few things in common.
Maybe it's because I'm so used to perfectly-perfect Poppins that when I read the book version, I was more than a little shocked.
I wish the movie version was truer to the book.
I loved the way she adopted all the voices for the characters.
But readers also get to experience the magic of gingerbread wrapped in gilt paper stars that later get glued to the night sky, a funny night zoo in which the main attractions are people, the awful Bad Tuesday in which Michael is hateful to everybody because he just can't help it, and the tale of Mrs. Lark's Andrew, a silky little pampered pet who wants nothing more than to be a common dog.My favorite chapter in this book, however, is the bittersweet story of the twin babies John and Barbara, who delight in talking to the wind and the birds who visit them in their nursery.
Looking at myself in the mirior for to long and talking to myself about how beautiful i am was never my problem… Mine mostly came to lots of selfies taken a day and saveing them on my camera but we ar not here to talk about myin the past vanity problem we are here to talk about Mary Poppins… In the chapter titled "Christmas Shoping" Micheal asks Mary Poppins if they could look into the store windows to see some toys.
Most of the time Mary Poppins was treating Jane and Micheal as her younger brother and sister instead of children she was supposed to be nannying and this made me rol my eyes and chuckle a little bit.
OK, here's the thing: P.L. Travers's Mary Poppins is not Walt Disney's Mary Poppins.
Weirdly, I love both versions equally, although Travers's portrayal of adult-child relationships is more accurate, I think.
In the book, the kids clearly inhabit a fantasy world of which their parents are completely oblivious.
Mary Poppins, an acid-tongued nanny, serves as a conduit to these fantasy worlds, which are often quite dangerous.
Unlike Disney, Travers doesn't try to reconcile the kids to their parents.
She's right.For the record, I do love the movie Mary Poppins, with its gorgeous costumes and sets, not to mention brilliant performances by Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
Story of the world's most beloved nanny, Mary Poppins (Mary Poppins #1), P.L. Travers, Mary Shepard (Illustrator)Mary Poppins is a series of eight children's books written by P.
L. Travers explains in her introduction to Mary Poppins in the Park, "She cannot forever arrive and depart."تاریخ نخستین خوانش: پانزدهم ماه می سال 1974 میلادیعنوان: مری پاپینز؛ نویسنده: پاملا لیندون تراورز؛ مترجم: مهشید امیرشاهی؛ تصورگر: مری شپرد؛ تهران، علمی فرهنگی، چاپ سوم 1383، در 91 ص؛ شابک: 9644455819؛ چاپ چهارم 1386؛ موضوع: داستانهای کودکان از نویسندگان انگلیسی سده 20 مآقای بنکس به دنبال پرستار تازه ای برای فرزندانش، جین و مایکل، می‌گردد، او یک آگهی می‌نویسد، که در آن مشخصات یک پرستار جدی قید شده است.
مری پاپینز به خانه ی آقای بنکس می‌رود، و پرستاری از بچه‌ ها را می‌پذیرد.
I mean THIS IS THE MARY POPPINS BOOK THAT IS SO FAMOUS ALL OVER THE UNIVERSE.
The adventures Mary Poppins takes the children on?
And can we spare a moment for the NAME "Mary Poppins"?
Um...I really did NOT like Mary Poppins herself.
I'm pretty sure it was hallucinatory drugs that enabled them to fall in love with her.
They were very like the movie.
I didn't like this book.
I thought Mary Poppins' was cruel/condescending to the children and not the kind of influence I'd want in  my  kids' lives.
she doesn't have rosy cheeks, a fresh shimmer of newly applied lipstick, or break out into overly saccharine songs?She's not Julie Andrews?!Okay, let me make the mental adjustment and open my heart to this edgy Plain Jane nanny who uses an early version of Jedi mind control to persuade her new employers to increase her pay and give her extra time off.
Pisses off most of the people around her, too.Let me wave goodbye to A Spoonful of Sugar and instead embrace P.L. Travers's original version of Mary:All day long Mary Poppins had been in a hurry, and when she was in a hurry she was always cross.
For the Celebrity Death Match Review Tournament, Pride and Prejudice (1) versus Mary Poppins (32) NARRATOR: It is a truth universally acknowledged, that an impecunious father with four unmarried daughters is in urgent need of a magic nanny.
And so it came to pass that Miss Mary Poppins took up residence in the Bennet household...Scene 1[Breakfast at the Bennets.
The four sisters are laughing, talking loudly, reaching after toast etc]MARY POPPINS: Lydia, don't slouch!
Slouching is generally regarded as unbecoming in a young woman.
Alone.The rest of this review is available elsewhere (the location cannot be given for Goodreads policy reasons)
Like many others, I wanted to read Mary Poppins prior to watching Saving Mr. Banks so that I could see what PL Travers arguments would be about Walt Disney changing her work.
I have to say that I am glad that Disney changed it!
In the story, Mary Poppins was not a likeable character to me.
I just wanted to get through the story to see if she would change any from the vain and frankly, mean, woman that she started out to be.
Usually, I like books better than the movie adaptations, in this case, the movie was a major improvement.
perfect book to make you sleep
What I found in the book was a different sort of charm from the film--a different sort of Mary Poppins who was more severe, sarcastic and egotistical, who doesn't sing and who never says "Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious"--yet was still very well-loved by the children she nannies, and still managed to help them see the magic in life.
This book is 1000% my aesthetic, and I love it to the moon and back.
I can't believe it's been fifteen years since I last read it.
FIFTEEN YEARS, PEOPLE.
That's a heck of a long time--but as soon as I started reading, I remembered everything.
And to top it all off, a little girl who wears a piece of blue sky for a dress (I LOVE HER OKAY).
"Don't you know," she said pityingly, "that everybody's got a Fairyland of their own?"Why, yes, Mary, I did know .
because you were my Fairyland.
OK, I know it's not unusual for Disney to eviscerate classics, but I was really surprised when I finally read this book to my children how little it resembled the Disney movie (which I liked!). I adore this book. Mary is vain and crabby and a bit of a mystic, and bizarre things happen when she is around. But it's really about the ephemeral magic of childhood. I laughed out loud and wept openly when I read this to my kids. It is a wonderful book. I wish I'd read it earlier.
There is a dark undercurrent in this novel and in this character that I found disturbing. And a few of the other characters that you encounter I would describe as bizarre, like the old gingerbread lady, and the King Cobra at the zoo who likes to kiss your cheeks (no thank you). The movie, I understand, is different (I haven't seen it). As classic children novels go this one, for me, was not very likable, so three stars is the best I can do.
Quick review of the audio! This seemed a little different than what I remember of my book and record set I wore out from overuse back in the 80s (my poor parents! It was Mary Poppins all day, every day!)! I think my copy was the Walt Disney version and based on the movie with Julie Andrews, which made Mary Poppins not quite so temperamental! It was still fun and enjoyable, and I hope to listen to more in the series.
Just a few yards away, perched on the low wall which surrounds Trafalgar Square, a smartly dressed woman is singing sweetly :Feed the bear, tuppence a bagTuppence...
tuppence a bagTwo small children wander up to her.
"Please Miss, we want to feed the bear"She smiles at the little girl.
She takes their tuppence and gives them a small brown bag.
The little girl opens the bag and offers some of the contents to the small bear.
"Oh, see how he likes the honey cakes!" says the girl.
"Oh my", he says, "I do believe I am beginning to feel a little....
I've only ever watched the Walt Disney Movie, and to be very honest I didn't even know it was based on a book.While reading The Fireman; Joe Hill's protagonist adores Mary Poppins and Julie Andrews.
I went on a hunt and got hold of the first book.This was very, very different from the movie I've always watched and adored.
Don't get me wrong, I loved Bert and the "Movie Plot" but this was where the real magic happens in the book.
I might be wrong but I think the movie was based on all the books not just the first.
This was one of my favorite books when I was a kid. A true classic and the inspiration for the Disney film adaptation, Mary Poppins is still just as magical as I remembered it being. :)
A one of a kind children's classic. You can watch my full review here - http://youtu.be/MsQ-7Xbf7PM
This review contains spoilers for the end of the book!Characters: ★The characters in this book are so weird.
Sure, the kids would have been relatable at the time this was written but Mary Poppins was an extremely unlikeable character who just awful and bizarre, and not in the good way either.
Plot: ★The plot was just awful.
Mary Poppins came and was horrible to the children; they went on a couple of weird adventures that had no backstory or plot to them, and then she left.
☹ Definitely one of my least favourite books I’ve ever read.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tRFHX...Χρόνια πολλά και Καλά Χριστούγεννα αγαπητοί goodreads friends!!!Σοκαρισμένη αντιλαμβάνομαι ότι δεν έχω γράψει κριτική γι' αυτό το αγαπημένο παιδικό ανάγνωσμα..
βέβαια τι να γράψω, όπως όλα τα παιδάκια μεγάλωσα με την ιστορία της αγαπημένης νταντάς που καταφέρνει να βάλει τα παραμελημένα-κακομαθημένα παιδιά της οικογένειας Μπανκς σε τάξη και να ενώσει την οικογένειαΤαξιδέψτε στα μαγικά σοκάκια με τη Μαίρη Πόπινς, πίνοντας ιπτάμενο τσάι, χορεύοντας μέσα σε ζωγραφιές με τους καπνοδοχοκαθαριστές!Αν δεν έχετε πάρει ακόμα δώρο για κάποιο παιδάκι-ανηψάκι-βαπτιστήρι-ξαδερφάκι σκεφτείτε το σαν μια καλή επιλογή.
Αλλά και για κάποιον 30+ που δεν το έχει διαβάσει επίσης προτείνεται...Για να μαθαίνουν οι μικρότεροι και να θυμούνται οι μεγαλύτεροι!!
I could enjoy both forms.Of all the imaginative stories in this first collection, my favorites were The Day Out, in which Mary and Bert enter a sidewalk painting and visit Fairyland, and The Laughing Gas, in which Mary, her uncle and the children have a tea party while floating in the air.
Plus, Bert was only in one story in the book, and he was one of my favorite characters in the movie.
Mary Poppins is stern which I suspect is normal for that era and I do appreciate a character portrayed as flawed and I do dislike the way Disney characters if they are mean they are old, ugly and cross looking whereas the good character is young, beautiful and smiley which I think very misleading for children.We loved the magic in these stories, it's great to hear voices of characters who in real life would not be able to talk our language, so the dog chapter and the baby chapter really appealed to us.
I read this one to my kids this year.
What was surprising in the book was that Poppins comes off as far more bizarre, detached and haughty than she does in the film.
There are of course adorable moments and funny incidents in this loose collection of stories that are not really a continuous narrative but some random adventures.
The kids enjoyed the book but have not insisted that I grab another copy.
Up to you to decide I suppose, but as an adult, it is an entertaining read particularly for parents of young kids.
مری پاپینز رو واسه اون نوستالژی ناب بچگیام خریدم. البته برا خواهر کوچیکمم خریدم ولی برا سن اونم زیادی بچگونهس. :)) ولی میخواستم اونم این حسو داشته باشه. حسی که من و داداشم با فیلم مری پاپینز داشتیم. فیلمش بهنظرم بهتر بود. شایدم من الان ببینم نظرم عوض شه و بفهمم رو حال و هوای بچگیم این حرفو زدم. بههرحال، چیز زیادی نمتونم بگم. چون فقط برا کِیفش خوندم و بهش یه جورایی احتیاج داشتم. یه سری چیزای ظریف و قشنگی داشت. مثل اینکه با باد شرقی میآد و هروقت باد غربی بوزه، میره.
مری پاپینز رو واسه اون نوستالژی ناب بچگیام خریدم. البته برا خواهر کوچیکمم خریدم ولی برا سن اونم زیادی بچگونه‌س. :)) ولی می‌خواستم اونم این حسو داشته باشه. حسی که من و داداشم با فیلم مری پاپینز داشتیم. فیلمش به‌نظرم بهتر بود. شایدم من الان ببینم نظرم عوض شه و بفهمم رو حال و هوای بچگیم این حرفو زدم. به‌هرحال، چیز زیادی نمتونم بگم. چون فقط برا کِیفش خوندم و بهش یه جورایی احتیاج داشتم. یه سری چیزای ظریف و قشنگی داشت. مثل اینکه با باد شرقی می‌آد و هروقت باد غربی بوزه، می‌ره.
Wonderful book! If you loved this book half as much as I did, read more of the series. You will love them, too.Just reread this book with my grandson. Read it to his mom, too, when she was young. Generations. A good book lasts forever.
The chapters don’t connect, but are like short stories joined together with common characters.Then you have Mary Poppins herself and her relationship to the four Banks children, because there are four: Jane, Michael, John, and Barbara (the last two are twin babies).
There really is nothing likeable about her except that the children do like her for some reason.
I don’t much like Mary Poppins, but her relationship with the children is fascinating.
There are occasional moments when she is not, like when she is with Bert, but they are few and far between (Bert has only one chapter in the entire book).
Celebrity Deathmatch review in which Mary Poppins is pitted against Pride and Prejudice.It is a truth universally acknowledged, that "supercalifragilisticexpialidocious" is the best word and deserves YOUR vote just for its existence.Think of what Mary Poppins gave you in your childhood. Well, it's payback time. And, let's face it. If Jane Austen had been able to read Mary Poppins in her childhood, think how much more fun her books would have been.I rest my case.
Everyone's going to shoot me, but I love the movie more. *hides*
Honestly, I probably would have enjoyed reading these adventures as a child as they are wonderful fantasies that seem normal yet astoundingly abnormal to children as they've been told by adults logically "it is quite impossible."This book focused mostly on the four Banks children (Jane, Michael, and the Twins John and Barbara) with the adults (Mr. and Mrs. Banks, the cook, the butler, the maid) being mentioned when they are needed in adventures.I didn’t like that there is virtually no mention of Mary Poppins and Mr. Banks meeting EVER so that surprised me as I wouldn’t pay anyone I had never met to watch my young children.
