https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6452796-drive
I do it for intrinsic reasons and thumb my nose at the world of extrinsic ones.
They did it for intrinsic reasons, not extrinsic ones.So what does this mean to businesses?
If, Pink says, you give workers THREE gifts -- autonomy, mastery, and purpose -- they will work like hell for you (because it's as much for THEM).
Given the choice, humans will work for less money if a company offers them more leeway, creative outlets, flexibility, challenges with long-term goals, camaraderie, and raison d'être's (so to speak).Pink points to our childhoods.
The company gave its workers time to manage and challenge themselves.
I will save you the pain of reading it by stating it here: people with non-routine jobs are more effectively motivated by intrinsic rewards rather than extrinsic rewards.
Most of this is done by recounting specific studies that prove his main point about intrinsic motivation.
I have never read “Flow”, yet I hope the concept is better explained in his book, because in Pink’s book it makes no sense.
The best part of this book was the concept of intrinsic motivation and how it should be applied in business.
I wish Pink would have examined the concept of intrinsic motivation in different aspects of life rather than just business.
We need people to buy books, and to do that we need people who can sell books.That’s where you come in.If you were ever interested in reading, writing, reviewing, we want to speak to you.
Without a little help from you.We love books, but let’s face it, we love them even more when they’re at your place.So we need you to find a home for every book we could possibly think of selling.
VULNERABLE!!!And You Thought You Knew What a Staff Review Was!Let’s be totally honest with you.
If that’s your kind of story, let’s do business.Our goal: Two million staff reviews in three years!Just think, you could write 30,000 of them!
Staff were to come up with ways to make things better – according to a series of criteria – and then to work towards implementing the improvements they came up with.
And all this comes back to the fundamental assumption underlying most of these problems, the idea that staff in organisations simply do not want to work and will only be motivated to work if they are either punished or rewarded.
I really liked this book – the ideas are clearly set out and it has to be a good thing if people are saying that people need to be trusted to prefer to achieve things rather than to do nothing.
He begins the book with some research on monkeys that demonstrated an innate interest in solving puzzles.
He then goes on to describe his big premise which is that we are are in the midst of a major motivational shift.
But Pink's presentation on the monkeys demonstrates that 'even' they are intrinsically motivated to solve puzzles.
His premise that since we've shifted to more creative tasks - a new age has arrived.
I think it artificially makes us 'more' different than past generations.
So while the book covers some good ideas about motivation, I am cautious about the presentation.
So, I listened to this entire book about motivation, and I can't figure out why I don't feel motivated to write a review. No carrot, no stick, no review.
Only the first chapter is necessary.
The rest is repetitious and filled with soon-to-be-obsolete computer metaphors.However, I've been thinking a lot about this book since I read it (a few weeks ago?), so two stars was perhaps a stingy rating.
Everywhere I go lately, I see examples of poorly-designed systems, destined to kill people's intrinsic motivation.
I recently read "Unconditional Parenting" by Alfie Kohn.
Kohn's premise is basically that rewarding and punishing children for acting in certain ways only gives them extrinsic motivations to behave how you want and will therefore interfere with their moral development.
Some good ideas, but for once I'd like to see a book where the case studies about flexible scheduling and autonomy don't involve software companies or consultants.
I'd like to see an example where they motivate DMV employees to work harder to do the same menial work, but if giving DMV employees 20% flex time for their own projects means a corresponding 20% increase in the 2 hour wait time, I'm not on board with it.
I don't know why, but it bugs me when authors use software version numbers, the book extensively compares old antiquated motivation 2.0 and new upgraded motivation 3.0 and I get it, 3 is better than 2.
As Pink presents correctly, much of the research re human motivation IS counter-intuitive to what most of us tend to think is the best way to reward, incentivize or bribe people to act in beneficial ways.
Unfortunately, Pink insists on creating such a tower of babble -- "motivation 3.0," "type-I," "ROE," "if/then contingent rewards," vs.
This is a book for the choir and not the congregation.
So far this year, I've reviewed two other books which have done a much more effective job of covering very similar terrain: Seth Godin's "Lynchpin" and Jeff Jarvis' "What would Google do?"
Reading Pink's book, I endlessly thought about teachers and what motivates us (it's NOT merit-pay) and students and what motivates them to read (it's not pizza coupons or AR points). Funny, insightful, and supported by research, Drive has far-reaching implications for our society and how we view work and the people we try to motivate.
2.5 ⭐'s rounded up to 3 — Interesting approach for a hard to nail down answer. Most relevant for employers trying to extract optimum performance from employees, parents raising children, or those with general curiosity. We're born to be players, not pawns. We're meant to be autonomous individuals, not individual automatons.Best predictor of success: Grit. (I actually liked Angela Duckworth's book, "Grit," a little more than this one.) Second Law of Mastery: Mastery Is A PainA lot of this stuff i
We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too."//Our business has evolved into a ROWE, and it's much more efficient.Results Only Work Environment (ROWE): The brainchild of two American consultants, a row is a workplace in which employees don't have schedules.
So if workers seem disengaged, Pink's solution is to stop focusing on carrots and sticks and start inspiring workers to feel like human beings by shaping work to engage the third drive.
Next, offer them autonomy, mastery, and purpose.I found it interesting that Pink often stops to mention that most companies refuse to acknowledge the third drive.
It is more than an art of motorcycle maintenance and many authors might be surprised to learn that its roots go back further than middle management strategies.Ultimately, I found self-determination theory extremely interesting, and I suspect that Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us will have me thinking about what I do and how I do it for a long time to come.
Financial gain has always been a motivator for me, but I'm also the type of person that will take on extra work, new projects or volunteer my time simply because I like the work and it makes me feel good.
The volunteer industry is booming with people just like me who are looking for a personal sense of satisfaction and accomplishment that comes from donating your time to a greater cause than your own.The central idea in Drive: The Surprising Truth About What Motivates Us highlights the gap between what science already knows and what businesses still do.
The result paints a picture very different from the traditional reward/punishment paradigm of motivation, one that speaks of self-direction, personal satisfaction, and pride in one's work (or in Pink's words, Autonomy, Mastery, and Purpose).I wax philosophic about this because it rings very true for what I have experienced in my own projects.
There needs to be the right ratio of freedom to direction, relative to the degree of self-discipline the worker has.Similarly, if mastery of a skill is asymptotic as Pink describes (and I follow that), then from an effectual, time-wrangling standpoint there has to be a cut-off point.
I imagine this is a great book to confuse those with a lot of management theory behind them.
Luckily I'm not one of those, and this book has really struck home.
He posits that today's left-brain worked is better "managed" through intrinsic motivation, which he defines as being best facilitated when people are given Autonomy in how they do their work, given the tools to strive for Mastery in their skills, and working towards a Purpose, or a greater good.
It also has a quick but interesting section on fallacies in using reward systems as motivation for educating our children.
A coworker not known for his managerial skills but who is respected for his results read the Jobs book and commented that his biggest takeaway from Steve Jobs' contribution was that despite my coworker's abusive management style, he was far to kind to his employees.
Practical applications are what is most often missing from books of this genre and his suggestions are welcome.In the end the book is an easy read and is definitely not a panacea for management skill in any setting.
That goal will be realized when workers feel their work has purpose, and when they are given the independence to achieve competence in their own way.We need to throw out ‘Motivation 2.0’ for a new ‘operating system,’ one based on ‘Type I’ behavior, rather than ‘Type X.’ Type I types are ‘fueled more by intrinsic desires that extrinsic ones.’ Type X types are dinosaurs left over from the Industrial Age mentality exemplified by assembly-line advocate Frederick Winslow Taylor, and the behaviorist school mindset personified by B.F. Skinner.
Is that fair?Again, Pink doesn’t deny that there are routine, boring, but necessary jobs that justify ‘if-then’ rewards.
Look out for Drive on the shelves from 29 Dec.I'm LOVING this latest book by Dan Pink.
A Whole New Mind is a stroke of genius in understanding the way that the world of work has changed, and DRIVE is a powerful extension to A Whole New Mind that argues that, because of the ways that the world of work has changed, carrot-and-stick motivation is no longer effective or desirable.
You can get the Bottom-line on Drive, including my interview with Daniel Pink over here:http://www.bottomlinebookclub.com/201...
This is another great book by Daniel Pink.
The book by Kohn was published about 20 years earlier, and tells much the same story, in a much more scholarly, and perhaps drier style.Daniel Pink's book, though, is much more readable, much shorter, and has a different slant.
Rewards can be used to motivate people to do tasks, as long as these are repetitious, relatively mindless tasks that require little creativity or thoughtfulness.
On the other hand, rewards backfire, if the tasks require creativity or original thinking of any sort.
The book has an interesting approach toward motivating people with some useful guidelines.
أعتذر مسؤول المهمة من طلاب المجموعة “ب” بأنه لن يقوم بمنحهم أي مبلغ أو مقابل على التركيب في هذه المرة، وجعلهم ينتظرون نفس مدة الإنتظار السابقة وقام بمراقبة تصرفاتهم.
تم الطلب من مجموعة عدم القيام بأي أعمال ممتعة لمدة ثلاث أيام، حتى وان كانت تلك الأعمال مثل غسيل الأطباق اذا كانت تمنح متعة أو شعور العوم لصاحبها، وكانت النتيجة انه وفي اليوم الأول شعر المشاركون في المجموعة بصداع وإكتئاب غير مبرر.
المحفز رقم٢، لا يؤمن بالغايات ولكن المحفز رقم٣، فالغايات تشكل وقود دافع وقوي لكل الأعمال التي يقوم بها وهي ما تحفز الناس على القيام بالمهام التطوعية أفضل من المهام الإلزامية لان التطوع له غايات واضحه..
Pink asserts that while financial incentives may provide an initial motivational spike, to achieve long term results you need to look to less tangible incentives like autonomy, mastery and purpose.
While he asserts that people have baseline financial needs, business models like open source software or Wikipedia provide a window to a world where people are driven by a whole new set of motivators.As someone who reads a lot about education models and approaches, much of what Pink has to say rang true.
The world of homeschooling also provides a whole other case study for a study of motivation.
To keep your workforce productive, you have to reward employees for good behavior (i.e. money and recognition) and punish them for bad (reprimands and firing).-But science is demonstrating that humans possess a powerful third drive that Pink calls "intrinsic motivation." In a nutshell, people (and monkeys for that matter) solve puzzles because it's fun.
Cuốn sách này viết về gì?Một cuộc cách mạng về cách cổ vũ động viên người khác trải qua 3 giai đoạn - Hệ 1.0 - động lực sinh học: thỏa mãn được mấy nhu cầu cơ bản nhất của con người: ăn, uống, ngủ nghỉ, tình dục, lương thưởng...- Hệ 2.0 - động lực ngoại vi: động lực kiểu "cây gậy và củ cà rốt", tốt thì thưởng, sai thì phạt- Hệ 3.0 - động lực nội tại: xuất phát từ 3 gốc rễ: quyền tự trị, sự làm chủ, và mục đích ý nghĩa.Cuốn sách xoay quanh những nhược điểm trong hệ 2.0 - điều gì khiến "cây gậy và củ cà rốt" lỗi thời trong thời đại NÃO PHẢI ngày nay và được nâng cấp bằng hệ 3.0.
This book was a really exciting read, it covered research into motivational field and opinions and theories of experts in psychology and business.
It is rare that a textbook type of book captions my attention so much that I don't really want to read anything else, but this one did so.
What also helped is that in the book many people's research I have learned about in my educational studies were covered, which helped me with the read and also made me see that education is developing and evolving and at some point will be able to at least partially adjust to the modern society's needs and psychology.
After watching Pink’s TED Talk years ago, I enthusiastically added Drive to my list of books to read. This book was such a disappointment. Watch the talk and read the first chapter. Then bail before his incessant jargon rehashing studies other researchers have conducted numbs your mind.
People need a sense of autonomy, mastery, and purpose.Pink divides human history into three “operating systems” of motivation:Motivation 1.0: People are driven by their biological urges: hunger, thirst, sex, survival.Motivation 2.0: People are given external rewards and punishment to enforce compliance; the “carrot and stick” model.Motivation 3.0: People are empowered to follow their intrinsic motivation and desire for purpose.
It explores autonomy further, explaining that people should be free to choose their task (work), time (schedule), technique (work style), and team (people they work with).Pink divides people into Type X (extrinsically motivated) and Type I (intrinsically motivated), and describes research showing that Type I people are generally more successful.
I think the whole book could've been wrapped up in one or two chapters.
I really get what Author is trying to say and it is important that Governments, Corporations understand that not everything that their employee (or a person) does for them is because they get paid for it.
Strangely, Author did not elaborate much on explaining the other side.Overall, the book is good in terms of the message its trying to convey but somehow it didn't engage me as much as I would've liked it to.
I certainly enjoy the autonomy my job currently provides and am sympathetic to a book whose agenda is to propagate such.Keyword is propagate, as this book quickly became an annoying parade of unoriginal ideas wrapped in an idealism that didn't honestly deal with the challenges of "setting your workforce free." There's been a lot of intelligent thought on human organization and motivation that isn't usefully dismissed by asserting that "management" is akin to a swearword.
Purpose, Autonomy, Mastery - and Flow...yep, I get it and I recognize it and I want it...I wanted it before reading this book, and I don't feel this book really helped me get closer to it or helps me meaningfully implement such in the workplace.
Mediocre at best.
Like many pop science writers, Pink regurgitates a bunch of other people's work and tries to put his own spin on it.
Unfortunately, nothing in this book is new or even surprising, despite Pink's assertion to the contrary.
Pink alternately sneers at the idea of "empowerment" then goes on to basically advocate the exact same thing.The worst part is that the book is written in a salesman's voice.
Unsurprisingly, Pink has a whole 'kit' to help people discover their own internal motivation.
I'm sure he gets paid a lot of money to spout this bullshit in front of large corporate audiences.
I recommend THIS REVIEW for a description of this book that's better than any review that I might write.This book describes how the usual measures taken to promote motivation in people can have results opposite of what was intended. These unintended consequences have long been demonstrated by psychologists, but businesses and schools have been slow to make use of this information. All the time I was listening to this book I was thinking about how difficult it is to change social situations to take advantage of the information discussed in this book.
