https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/16857.The_Love_of_the_Last_Tycoon
Maybe not his most well-read (Gatsby is perfect for high school underclassmen reading lists - theme-filled AND obvious) but definitely his best.“These lights, this brightness, these clusters of human hope, of wild desire—I shall take these lights in my fingers.
Thorough Sparknoting, but Sparknoting all the same.It’s interesting, and it provides a unique look, but god the whole time I was just wishing that Fitzgerald lived to finish this work.Maybe I’m wrong.
Maybe he would have gotten too wrapped up in it - made it too much like Gatsby, rewritten the themes as too obvious, changed the ending or added more motifs.
Fitzgerald finished writing the fifth chapter of this book before he had a heart attack and died.
And despite the fact that one can not make any substantial investment in characters who we know in advance we'll never know completely or whose stories we won't ever realize; there is something in the simplistic and honest quality of this novel that pits it amongst Fitzgerald's greats.
He himself said in his notes and letters to friends that he had no fear in writing this novel and that it was to most resemble Gatsby, but in a new way.
Oh, Fitzgerald, Fitzy, Scott, F. I kept putting this one off because I knew exactly how it would leave me, and I was exactly right. As much as I love Gatsby, as much as I love  Tender is the Night  and the short stories and the essays and every wastebasket scrap he’s written, this would have been It. Capital-I It. It still almost is, even terribly unfinished. Now what? The other woman was more missed in her absence. They were alone and on too slim a basis for what had passed already. They existe
Oh, Fitzgerald, Fitzy, Scott, F.
I kept putting this one off because I knew exactly how it would leave me, and I was exactly right.
As much as I love Gatsby, as much as I love 
Tender is the Night
and the short stories and the essays and every wastebasket scrap he’s written, this would have been It. Capital-I It. It still almost is, even terribly unfinished.
The other woman was more missed in her absence.
They were alone and on too slim a basis for what had passed already.
They existed nowhere.
“You’re Irish,” he said, trying to build one for her.
Originally, I had planned not to rate this book at all. After all, it's an unfinished novel. And yet...it's some of Fitzgerald's finest. Here on display is one of Fitzgerald's best literary tricks -- to have characters act in peculiar and implausible ways and to make them completely realistic and plausible. I loved every scene in this book. There is not a single sentence in this book, a single line, that doesn't crackle with energy. I just wished I could have read the finished product.
Scott Fitzgerald’s penultimate novel, “Tender is the Night,” saddened me, because it showed a once-great man struggling—and failing—to write a novel worthy of his prodigious talent and storied past.Reading “The Last Tycoon” saddens me, because he found that novel, then suddenly died before he could finish it.
“The Last Tycoon” tells the story of Hollywood golden boy Monroe Stahr.
Fitzgerald’s four previous novels were either thinly veiled autobiography, or featured characters based on himself and Zelda, thrust into some fictional realm or another.
I found a couple of snippets that were probably from Fitzgerald’s perspective—when Stahr explains to a whiny novelist the difference between novel-writing and screenwriting.
An incomplete first draft only of the book FSF was still writing when he died, this feels like a new departure or at least a fresh start.
As in Gatsby there is a first person narrator who isn't one of the romantic protagonists, and large sections of what exists are almost third-person narratives of the doomed love between Monroe Stahr and Kathleen.
What marks a diversion from the previous books is that this is set in Hollywood and that Stahr is a film producer: a large part of the story revolves around his work and business dealings, very different from Anthony Patch, Amory Blaine or even Gatsby and Dick Diver.
But I find comfort in the idea that we would not have these questions had not Fitzgerald left The Love of The Last Tycoon as his final stamp on American literary art.Fitzgerald's protagonist, Monroe Stahr, stands apart from the other heroes of his novels.
Nonetheless, I think Fitzgerald did reach an important stage of the story as Stahr vulnerably enters the center of the hero's labyrinth and faces himself.
And, again, as opposed to Fitzgerald's other heroes, I don't think Stahr felt familiar with himself when coupled with some of the people who enter his life.
Another Fitzgerald novel that I read in French a long time ago, and have just rediscovered with wonder by reading it in English.
There's something about Fitzgerald's writing style that is really unique and that no translation, as good as it may be, can communicate.
More than that, it is one of the very best (if not the best) novels ever written about Hollywood: Fitzgerald has perfectly understood how the whole system worked - which makes his own failure at working within this system heartbreaking.
I really wish that Fitzgerald had the chance to finish this before he died. I think out of all his novels this had the potential to be as great as the Great Gatsby. My copy of this book had notes on how Fitzgerald planned to finish the novel, he planned meticulously by all accounts. But it’s simply not the same as reading the actual story, especially as one of my favourite parts of his books are his endings.
EDIT: Junio, 2015I Watched the movie again last night.
Sick and all, STILL LOVED IT.Reseña Original: November, 20143.5I read the book a looong time ago, but last week I saw the movie for a fourth time and..
I'm not sure why but, for some reason, I prefer the film version to the book.MMM...I wonder why that is.......I mean, I think the movie had a certain something a superior someone...I know it had something someone definitely superior......That i loved a lot more/u>< in the movie......Of course, the book was amazing....
But the movie had a 'something' and it was certainly more amazing....Oh, right.
Scott Fitzgerald's final book.
On December 21, 1940, the day after he wrote chapter 6, Scott Fitzgerald died of a heart attack.
For an unfinished novel The Last Tycoon is a powerful work.
I'm not sure why GR has this book listed under the title The Love of the Last Tycoon.
As the forward by Edmund Wilson points out The Last Tycoon is not just about Monroe Stahr but about Hollywood in the 1940s.
Unlike many of Fitzgerald's characters, Stahr is no playboy but rather a hard driven producer, immensely talented, working often around the clock at an impossible business.
وقتی کتابی اثر اسکات فیتزجرالد در فقسه کتابفروشی دیدم که نخوانده بودم، انقدر ذوق کردم که مثل همیشه قبل از خرید تورقی نکردم.. اما حالا که شروع کردم بخونم میبینم کتاب آخرین قارون به خاطر درگذشت ناگهانی نویسنده نیمهکاره مانده و پس از مرگش با کمک یادداشتها و اتودهای نویسنده پایانی برای کتاب تهیه شده و به چاپ رسیده. حالا شاید خیلی هم بد نباشه. بخونم ببینم چی میشه.
وقتی کتابی اثر اسکات فیتزجرالد در فقسه کتابفروشی دیدم که نخوانده بودم، انقدر ذوق کردم که مثل همیشه قبل از خرید تورقی نکردم.. اما حالا که شروع کردم بخونم می‌بینم کتاب آخرین قارون به خاطر درگذشت ناگهانی نویسنده نیمه‌کاره مانده و پس از مرگش با کمک یادداشت‌ها و اتودهای نویسنده پایانی برای کتاب تهیه شده و به چاپ رسیده. حالا شاید خیلی هم بد نباشه. بخونم ببینم چی میشه.
Después de El Gran Gatsby, no había podido leer nada más de Fitzgerald, intenté leer Éste lado del paraíso, pero creo no llegué ni a la mitad (algún día planeo terminarlo) así que sentí como una excelente oportunidad continuar con los libros de Fitzgerald con ésta novela.
No negaré que hasta leer esos rellenos fueron un placer, pero no contó mucho de la historia.Como dice la sinopsis, Fitzgerald murió antes de ver terminada su obra, así que fue un poco triste leer en letra cursiva un "Aquí termina el borrador original" sentí una opresión en el pecho, tal vez por saber que se murió y tal vez porque quería continuar con la historia.Aunque claro, no nos dejan con un final repentino.
And with it, the huge floating head of the goddess Shiva - a film prop.As Stahr leaves his office to inspect the damage he sees the head floating by and on it two women, one of them the mesmerising Kathleen.It's the beginning of a love affair that will destroy him.As their affair plays out, we follow the disintegration of one of the great Hollywood legends, and also witness the darker heart of the Hollywood machine as a paranoid fear of communism comes to the fore.It's a gorgeous, excruciating, heady tale - based on Fitzgerald's own painful experiences working in Hollywood as a screenwriter.Produced by Laurence BowenAdapted and directed by Bill BrydenProduction Associate - John TamsSound Design - Mark SmithA Feelgood Fiction production for BBC Radio 4.
FRom BBC Radio 4 - Saturday Drama:The celebrated theatre director Bill Bryden adapts F Scott Fitzgerald's last and unfinished novel.
Starring Aiden Gillen, Jack Shepherd and Charlotte Emmerson.Haunted by the death of his wife, 1930s Studio Head Monroe Stahr works eighteen hour days, each one a collision of talent meetings, set visits, script brainstorms and preview screenings.
He's the "last of the princes", is making the studio millions and seems bullet proof.At the end of an epic day, an earthquake breaks two water mains, sending a roaring river of water through the studio.
Fitzgerald died of a heart attack at 44, and this final work was only half-written.Recently, my husband and I watched the new Amazon series The Last Tycoon, based on Fitzgerald’s unfinished novel, and we enjoyed it.
This finally compelled me to read the book.
I do recommend the show to adults interested in 1930s era Hollywood (I say adults because the show does contain profanity, some full nudity, and mostly mature content).As for the book, I can’t recommend reading it as a novel, because it is so far from complete.
Though Fitzgerald can be exonerated for having an unfinished book, I think it is fair to look at the story for what it would have been and judge his efforts based on where he was going with his narrative.
I only wish his swan song had been more worthy of his literary greatness.Even though this work is unfinished and very raw, I think anyone who is a fan of Fitzgerald should pick it up – if not for the story, then for the intimate look you'll get into his writing process and the aspirations he had hoped to accomplish in The Love of the Last Tycoon.
Up to the point we have, her character is boring and unlikeable, so while the Stahr sections sail along (and seem to progress the plot), I always sank when I got to the next section and remembered that not only has she been narrating the whole time, but now I had to put up with her narrating her own story.Given how perfectly Fitzgerald handled this narrative point of view in THE GREAT GATSBY, though, I have to believe he would have fixed the flaws and had it pay off in the end.
F. Scott Fitzgerald's The Love of the Last Tycoon is a book about a successful Hollywood producer who is struggling to find love and compassion in an industry where everyone is looking of the superficial.
This book was his last work that was written with the help of his friend Edmund Wilson because of his premature death.
Though we talk about how Hollywood is superficial and how unfair it is, this book is actually written by someone who completely understands how it works and there are a lot of parallels in his life to the book.
Es el último libro de Scott Fitzgerald, autor de El gran Gatsby. Murió antes de terminarlo y pese a que está inacabado sabemos gracias a las notas del autor el final que le había dado. Mi problema con la novela no es que esté inacabada, es que no conseguí empatizar con ningún personaje por lo que la lectura se me hizo muy cuesta arriba. Mi reseña: http://contandoteunlibro.blogspot.com...
The owner of Chicago's Heirloom Books and I usually have a book we read together when there aren't any customers about.
The owner is a big fan of American literature of the mid-twentieth century and of Hemingway and his circle in particular, so something by Fitzgerald was on our radar from the beginning.
Both of us knew Gatsby, but neither had ever read Fitzgerald's last, unfinished novel.
Besides, it's relatively short, something we could finish in a couple of weeks.What a mistake!
This is a terrible muddle of a book, forgivable only because its author never finished it, perhaps signaling the long-term effects of his alcoholism.
Del dorato e maledetto mondo di celluloide?C’è Hollywood o meglio, quella parte un po’ dietro le quinte che Scott Fitzgerald provò conquistare in un momento della sua vita difficile: aveva bisogno di soldi.
Gestisce attori, scrittori, colleghi produttori animato dalla medesima ambizione: ottenere quello che desidera, senza urlare o scomporsi, ma con determinazione e una capacità quasi magica di manipolare gli altri.Alla fine, fanno quello che vuole lui, perché devono ammettere che lui sa cosa vuole, e ogni personale opinione, così netta e convincente, perde ogni alone di inviolabilità se Monroe Stahr decide di intervenire.È di nuovo Cecelia che riprende il filo della storia.
C’è il sogno che denaro e successo siano il mezzo indispensabile per l’amore, e questo è uno dei temi ricorrenti nella narrativa di Scott Fitzgerald.
2.5 starsI went in knowing that this work was unfinished, but it really shows. The parts narrated by Cecilia and the sections of the book dedicated to talking about the film industry did not click with me. In fact having the story told in first person by Cecilia, who is a minor character at best, strikes me as an odd choice. The affair between Stahr and Kathleen was what saved it for me and although short, the characterization of their romance was on par with what Fitzgerald created with Gatsby and Daisy. If only he was able to finish it.
افسوس كه اجل مهلت نداد اون طور كه دلش مي خواد كتاب رو تموم كنه...
It reminded me of Vertigo, the Alfred Hitchcock movie, but so much less appealing!In a letter to his editor in 1939, Fitzgerald says:"This love affair [between Stahr and Kathleen:] is the meat of the book - though I am going to treat it, remember, as it comes through to Cecelia.
When you are reading Cecelia's first-person narration, it feels good and right.
When you are reading Stahr's third-person narrative, it feels good and right.
I'm all for experimental literature, I just don't think this works.The other problem with the book was that, like with The Great Gatsby, I couldn't care less about the characters.
It's a little jarring at times, and I don't think it works all that well.One benefit of the uncompleted state of the novel -- and the inclusion of copious notes, outlines, and correspondence as appendices -- is the glimpse it gives into Fitzgerald's writing process.
So the only the only rational way to appreciate this unfinished book is to savor the prose at the level of individual scenes, settings, and descriptions, without worrying about narrative or coherence.
...Stahr and his work, not just his potential romance, are so involving that it is truly tragic for the reader when the text stops abruptly.
The very copious notes included in the volume clearly tell the reader where Fitzgerald was intending to take the story, but it is still frustrating to not be able to finish the journey with his winning prose.
One wonders if his intentions would have played out as neatly as his notes suggest as Fitzgerald was known for re-writing and re-working.Perhaps the most amazing thing about The Love of the Last Tycoon is that even in its truncated state it is still a wonderful novel.
Fitzgerald justifies it in a letter included with the book, but I think the book would have been better all in first person.
If one book could ever be 'like' another, I should say it is more 'like' The Great Gatsby than any of my other books.
But I hope it will be entirely different..."I think he's right about the comparison, and I'd like to think he could have created something as great as Gatsby if he'd had the chance to finish and edit it, but what we're left with is no more than interesting for the Fitzgerald completist.
The paragraph transitions are a little choppy, but for an uncompleted manuscript this is extremely polished and honed.
I am quickly falling in love with the book that is the unfinished jewel at the pinnacle of a master's career.
I grew up in Southern California, not far from Hollywood, and has always despised the movie industry in a way from the familiarity.
I lost the sense of glow and glamor, but Fitzgerald is slowly re-awaking my love for one of the West's most lustrous legacies.
His words are bringing back the sense of history and fascination for the Golden Age of Hollywood.
