https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25733573-reasons-to-stay-alive
He breaks it down into simple formats, like lists of what you feel like on a bad day or what you are thinking and it's all stuff that NONE of the other books cover, it's really what is going on in your dark mind.He tackles the issues of suicidal thoughts and tendencies and how scary it can be, nobody wants to talk about that right?
Matt mentions staring out of a window and watching people go by and thinking he just wants to be normal like them.
If you are doubting to read this book, read this quote: "The world is increasingly designed to depress us.Happiness isn't very good for the economy. If we were happy with what we had, why would we need more? How do you sell an anti-ageing moisturizer? You make someone worry about ageing.How do you get people to vote for a political party? You make them worry about immigration.How do you get them to buy insurance? By making them worry about everything. How do you get them to have plastic surgery?
You make someone worry about ageing.How do you get people to vote for a political party?
By making them worry about everything.
How it touched me.How deeply it made me feel.This is more than a self-help book or a book that teaches you how to get rid of depression.This book  makes  you  live  depression.
I lived his story with him and to be honest, it was not a happy-go-lucky everything-will-be-okay self-help book.
Reasons to Stay Alive is a very dark non-fiction book, although the light at the end of the tunnel was there eventually.
4.5/5 stars. If you've suffered from depression and/or anxiety yourself at some point in your life or you know someone that has (and it's very likely that you do) this book is an absolute must-read.
Beautiful. Informative. Powerful.Around the Year in 52 Books Challenge Notes:- 34. A book about mental illness
Careful if you have the tendency to trigger negaive emotions via empathy as this book is honest about what the author went through regarding his psychological experiences.Inspirational:Q: Maybe love is just about finding the person you can be your weird self with.
(c)Q: How to stop time: kiss.How to travel in time: read.How to escape time: music.How to feel time: write.How to release time: breathe.
There are books you haven’t read yet that will enrich you, films you will watch while eating extra-large buckets of popcorn, and you will dance and laugh and have sex and go for runs by the river and have late-night conversations and laugh until it hurts.
"Words, just sometimes, can set you free."'But in the end one needs more courage to live than to kill himself.' ~ Albert Camus, A Happy DeathThis book has been an incredible read.
I am not sure if there is an ancient saying about this, but this book surely appeared when the reader needed it.
Matt Haig's Reasons To Stay Alive is just wonderful.
This is one of those books which I shall be rereading and referring to, during the rest of my life.Thank you, Matt Haig!"The storm ends.
“How to stop time: kiss.How to travel in time: read.How to escape time: music.How to feel time: write.How to release time: breathe.” ― Matt Haig, Reasons to Stay AliveThis was OK ! There were some bits i related to, others not so much. However, the writing style was simple and accessible, the paragraphs; short and concise. This is a good read if you're beginning your journey of learning about depression :)
But then I thought "There are people I would like to read this, because it feels so familiar to me." I would like to give it to people who are close to people with depression and anxiety, but don't really understand it.
I would like to just leave it on tube seats and cafe tables because I just think, if a few more people could understand how depression and anxiety felt, then maybe the world would be better.And then I think it became a book for me.
Because if you've ever felt otherwise, it's always good to collect more reasons to stay alive.
I received an ARC of this book from Canongate.
My usual technique, when reading an ARC, is to read 5 pages, then take a view as to whether I'm going to actually read the book.
Matt Haig is a marvellous writer: limpid; tender; passionate.
In this memoir (and it's short, barely 200 pages long), he manages to articulate, both the bleakness of depression and the means of dealing with it, little by little, day by day, without ever sounding maudlin, or self-indulgent, or preachy.
Matt Haig finds the words.
To be normal."A meaningful book about depression, anxiety, and creating reasons to stay alive.
Like a modern day William Styron, Matt Haig shares his experience with depression and anxiety and how he fought to overcome suicidal thinking.
The weird thing about depression is that, even though you might have more suicidal thoughts, the fear of death remains the same.
Haig encourages us to take a step back and give ourselves time for self-care.Though I enjoyed Reasons to Stay Alive, I wanted more in certain areas.
Still, I would recommend Reasons to Stay Alive, in particular to those interested in mental illness who have not already read too much about it.
So definitely pick this up when you feel emotionally stable enough to confront very real descriptions of mental illness.Matt talks several times about how he doesn’t take medication and it scares him and he doesn’t want to, which is a personal choice and that’s fine, but there are so many people that do take meds and it works for them, and if I would have read this before getting on my anxiety medication, it probably would have scared me away from it even further than I already was.
But more than that, he just put the experience of living with debilitating mental illness into words.
So good that it should be required reading. In schools. For GPs. Everyone. Haig says that each mind breaks differently, but I think his heartfelt words will say/mean something to anyone who has felt anxiety or depression. Some sections were so real that I had to put the book aside for a while. It's brilliant and hopeful. My thanks to Matt Haig for sharing so much of himself. It's not something most of us are able to do.
Like a tragic car accident you can’t help staring at, I couldn’t stop reading.
There’s times this book felt suffocating and uncomfortable like reliving a past nightmare.
I even felt while reading this book a resurfacing of old feelings a sense of heightened anxiety...transference much?
Being a lifelong anxiety sufferer the words on these pages were unbelievably accurate and insightful.
I only wish this book was around when I was gripped in the worst periods of my life, how reassuring it would have been to know I didn’t suffer alone.
I won’t forget this book.
The way people seem to cope is by not thinking about it too much.
From minor niggles to major problems, Matt Haig discusses the insidiousness of mental health.
Wishing my thoughts could float away from my head as easily as the blossom floated from the tree.
This is more profound than most of the “esteemed” self-help books out there.I'll end this review with some more words from Matt Haig about depression, which are utterly beautiful.”It may be a dark cloud passing across the sky, but - if that is the metaphor - you are the sky.You were there before it.
Either you can see this in yourself or you can see it in someone you love - I believe this book could be of great help to sufferers and supports alike.- I think this book will definitely be an eye opener to anyone who sees depression and anxiety as just being 'a little bit sad' or just 'over-worried' - Haig is wonderfully articulate in the way he describes the despair and panic that comes along with these mental illnesses and I commend him on sharing his extremely personal story.
I kind of wish I read this when I was in a better mental space because I might have gotten more out of it but I think he did a really good job.
I hope more people come forward and feel brave enough and safe enough to share their stories of what it is like to have depression, OCD, bipolar disorder, anxiety, etc because I would love to read more books like this one.
I would also read more by Haig.
You feel like you are controlling your body from somewhere else."*"Depression is also...
I feel like this book is a friend I very much needed.
I feel like that's the most important thing - because we all know (kind of) how we got to that lowest point - it's getting out of that ravine that makes me interested in a person's story.
I'm really critical about these things, and I'll probably end up discussing this on my blog at some point because this is such an important issue to me.But in conclusion: I'm sure this book will help a lot of people, I'm just not one of those people.
A fuller review MAY follow but my initial reactions to this book, just after finishing it, you can find here.It is ironic (is that the right word I wonder?) that the author who gave me my first reason to stay alive, at a time when I struggled to find one - with his previous novel, The Humans - then went on to write openly, elegantly and with no holds barred, about his own experiences of depression and anxiety.
And called it "Reasons to Stay Alive" If I was better with words myself I could probably find a better one than Ironic.
I got this for christmas and, as I am dealing with an anxiety disorder and depressive episodes, I wanted to read this for quite some time but I didn't know what to expect.
He is also quoting quite a lot of other authors, which I found interesting.It's a guide but not in an annoying 'here I'll tell ya what to do with your disorder" way, more in a 'hey, I know every mental disease is different but I got through it and so will you' way.
Just like a depression happens to you, healing can also just happen to you.I think if you suffer from a mental disorder, you should absolutely give this a go!
Wait about my video about mental illness, this book made me decide to do it, to come out and dare to say it outloud, yes I have depression and anxiety disorder, I am fighting them everyday, and I relate to every single thing in this book (even though there are some differences). Gonna talk to you soon about it all. till then, keep fighting, keep hoping. Life is not as bad as it may seem some days!
There's no detaching from it.I think trying to talk someone about of depression with rational reasons is a big waste of time.
But neither is depression and a whole host of other realities that make people's life's hellThese things are real for huge numbers of people and aren't going anywhere so we might as well be able to talk about them.Perhaps, this if nothing else, will go some way to remove the lack of understanding, the lack of sympathy and the guilty this creates of the part of the sufferer.
Matt Haig has given us a book that is half memoir, half life raft, spoken with a voice that combines honesty with wit, humour and tenderness.
It is short, matter-of-fact, a lot of which is constructed so that it can be digested just one single page at a time.
This book doesn’t set out to define anxiety and depression, but Matt Haig has a way of articulating his own experience that will resonate deeply.
‘Reasons to Stay Alive’ will make you laugh and cry.
It’s a book that speaks clearly and eloquently for those who find that words escape them.
Matt Haig finds the words.
This is a fantastic book. I've been meaning to read it for a long time, but it was certainly worth the wait! I suffer from the illness myself, and this book is so much better than most self-help books.Travelling through, Matt Haig's journey and experience with severe anxiety and depression, this account manages to portray an understandable and readable insight into the illness. If you suffer from this or know someone who does, this book is an essential read. Even if you don't, it still makes for brilliant reading.Short and sweet review, but absolutely outstanding! Highly recommended.BIG 5*
Uma leitura extremamente necessária tanto para quem sofre com depressão quanto para quem não consegue entender o que é essa doença.Depressão não é frescura nem fraqueza.Depressão é algo sério e que precisa ser compreendido e visto com carinho e amor.Depressão é difícil, muito difícil, mas, como diz Matt Haig, "a depressão é menor que você.
Sempre, ela é menor que você, mesmo quando parece enorme.
Pode ser uma nuvem negra passando pelo céu, mas - já que a metáfora é esta -, você é o céu.
E a nuvem não pode existir sem o céu, mas o céu pode existir sem a nuvem".
You are so scared of appearing in any way mad you internalise everything, and you are so scared that people will alienate you further you clam up and don't speak about it, which is a shame, as speaking about it helps.
Words - spoken or written - are what connect us to the world, and so speaking about it to people, and writing about this stuff, helps connect us to each other, and to our true selves.'   Reasons to Stay Alive  is like no other self-help books I have ever came across.
But then again, I don't read that many self-help books in my lifetime.
hope.Depression can affect everyone.
(And I don't know if only because of that, I liked the Second half way more.) What I generally can say: this book is something you should give your parents, siblings, friends, everyone you want to get a better understanding of what depression can do to you.
(But I think that is due to the fact, that everyone has a different story to tell, different ways to cope and thus would probably tell you a different thing about one thing or the other.)But what I really liked, is that Matt Haig says so himself in his book: every depression is different, so can be the things that help you to cope, but they all can be similar in their very core.
Rightly mentioned in the book, "The fame and money do not immunise you from mental health problems"Depression sucks.
Once you get dwell in this deep lethal sea of darkness i.e.,Depression, it's hard to overcome, one feel helpless, lonely, sad, lost, purposeless life, few make suicidal attempts but one should live, cope up from this & survive from the lethal sea by finding reasons to stay alive.
An internal war.
A black dog.
(Thanks Winston Churchill and Dr Johnson) A black hole.
Dark and hopeless and lonely.A collision between an ancient mind and a modern world (evolutionary psychology).A fucking pain.
and beautifully written .This book should be required reading in schools ,UNIs everywhere .Loved the way he wrote in this book , the way he described anxiety and deppression , i felt his pain throughout his words and that's what made me cry .Loved his book recommandations , loved how he talked about all these amazing men and women who suffered from deppression , yet , they accomplished something in their lives such as Einstein , Abraham Lincoln n Hemingway ,Camus , Kafka , Angelou , Anna hatheway etc ..If you have suffered from deppression or anxiety or you know someone that has , this book is an absolute must read .What a great way to start the year <3"I want life.
I want, for as much of the time as possible in this blink-of-an-eye existence we have, to feel all that can be felt.
i honestly felt his pain through the pages. and i'm glad he shared with the world his experience by writing this book. “And most of all, books. They were, in and of themselves, reasons to stay alive. Every book written is the product of a human mind in a particular state. Add all the books together and you get the end sum of humanity. Every time I read a great book I felt I was reading a kind of map, a treasure map, and the treasure I was being directed to was in actual fact myself.”
