https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/22036859-condition-red
Thoroughly enjoyed this account of World War II destroyer life during the Guadalcanal campaign, written by a destroyer captain just a few months after leaving his ship.
Condition Red doesn't attempt to downplay the hardships and trauma undergone by sailors and Marines at Guadalcanal; in fact it discusses some of their harrowing ordeals frankly; but never lets a hint of doubt or pessimism regarding the ultimate outcome of a campaign creep through.But most importantly, there's a ton of good "local color" about life on a destroyer—sights, sounds, emotions, practical aspects of everyday shipboard life under wartime conditions.
A must read for all that enjoy WW2 history. The author aptly describes life on a U.S. Destroyer during early war years concentrating around the invasion of Guadalcanal. Coincidently enough the authors description of day to day life on a Destroyer during WW2 is quite similar to what I experienced in the 60’s on Destroyers with the exception of the battles of course.
Great book!!What an excellent narrative in destroyer tactics.....a must read for those who would like some insight on Tin Can operations
Blast from the PastThis is a true account of six months aboard a US navy destroyer during the first year of WW II. The action takes place in the Pacific, around Guadalcanal. It was written in 1943, fresh off the experience and with the war not yet won. The author, captain of the ship, has an interesting, breezy style of writing that well conveyed what life on a destroyer was like. It creates the atmosphere well and transports one back to that time and place. A fascinating read.
Excellent,Excellent how many times can I say it.A well written book that flows from chapter to chapter. The authors gift of placing you in the action on board the Navy ship is extroantary.I really enjoyed this book very much. I felt sorry for him when he lost all his friends during and finally at the end of the war.I was a very young man during the war, but even so I can still remember some of the high lights that reminds me of things that took place at that time.
ExcellentWell written nonfiction description of what life was like aboard a Navy Destroyer during the period 1941 through 1945! Taken to me the perspective of the ship's commander, it makes you wonder how they managed to do what they did. Also to wonder if you could have done it all yourself. A little more of what it must have been like for the common sailor would have been good!
I was very disappointed, I expected stories of action and sea battles. What I received was a lot fluff about the ship and the various sections of the ship taking up 60% of the book. The names of this mans friends are nice for him to remember but relevance do they have to the battles that were taking place and the heroes that lost their lives sailing the ships.
The Smallest Battleship sBeing partial to destroyers myself, and having lived aboard one for a large portion of my stint in the Navy, I found this book to be one that accurately described what it was like to be in the "Tin Can Navy. The duty was hard, but there was a feeling of camaraderie that I don't think could be matched on any other man 'o war in the Navy.
Unusual in its daily insights into life aboard destroyer during this period.Written from The experiences of a destroyer captain it describes the day to day life during this period. Rather than the story of great battles and struggle it gives insights into the tedium life aboard a is navy destroyer interesting reading.
This is a great first person account of the war in the South Pacific from the US point of view. Accept that because this was written during the war, some details had to be left out and there was a certain amount of cheerleading going on. Still, a very good read.
A really enjoyable book on what it was like to serve on a Destroyer during the Pacific War of World War 2. I really enjoyed and it was very insightful so often we get books on Carriers or land battles but not the workforce of the Navy.
This is an excellent read for anyone intrested in knowing what it was like fighting in the Pacific during WWII -- this author was chief staff on a destroyer and gives a very broad lens view with a good, engaging style.
Very interesting readGood detail about life aboard a destroyer in WWII. Stories about the officers and crew detailed and, at times funny, heart wrenching and deadly serious. Jumps around a bit, but overall I would highly recommend.
This book is an excellent read. If you love books of t US navy during WW2 this is your book. Th e author is truly an old salt when writing about the navy. It ended all too soon and was kind of an English ending.
A fine account that will make you proud of our navy.The author shows great skill in showing how training and associations pay multiple dividends when under stress in combat and elsewhere.
I have been following this kind of book for long time. I was ready to give it a so-so grade. I thought it started kind of slow,but I ended up giving it a five star review. I am glad that someone with this background and this ability to articulate the situation has followed up.
EclecticGood read but eclectic in presentation. I think he wrote this while in a hospital. Interesting read and we'll worth your time for early WW2 action on a destroyer in the south pacific.
Diffijcult readIfyitdiuyiycitc l !bj!vhv jvjouffu udhuifky chkgf luhf ljfkgf lhkhc khyd heuf lkhg hckjv uoufgbu khditd hogkv kgckhc kufiydfigckfv kjgigd kgfgjf
Enjoyable reading.Gives an excellent look at what it's like aboard a small ship at sea. A little to much detail in some cases..
Condition Green! Great descriptions of sea battles.How the war was fought on board the ships. The reactions and the feelings of the men that fought it.
Early days of World War2Realistic writing. Meant a lot to me since my dad was aboard the Uss Holland. He talked a lot about the great time he had in z Australia
A great telling of life on a destroyer in WWII. Makes me want to go out and buy a model of one and build it.
ExcellentExcellent first hand account of US Navy destroyer life in the first few years of the war in the Pacific
You really gotta read this.Very good book. I really enjoyed reading this book. I'm not usually up for reading a diary, but this was very good.
Entertaining and historicalA good and fairly detailed journal of a destroyer captain in WW II Pacific theater. Contains numerous accounts of action around Guadalcanal.
Visceral descriptions of war duties aboard ship.The early months of WWII in the Pacific are described with candor through the eyes of an insightful destroyer captain.
Pretty goodSlow in parts. Lack of action stories caused this book to drag a bit. Not to bad otherwise.Does give insight to life on a destroyer in WW2.
Excellently toldEnjoyable. Brought me back to my days haze grey and underway. Was on board two FFGs and could relate to a lot in this book.
War heroesI always enjoy reading stories about WW II. The many, many heroes that lived it, came home and passed on what happened so all generations can see how terrible war is.
Really informative.Exciting beginning till end. Liked all the great scenes and action. I really like war and the Navy they had a tough one.
