https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/56480.Passion_and_Purity
This is my second time reading this.
In my first attempt, I think I had zero interest...this time, it's with a spirit of brokenness that opened my heart to what Elisabeth Elliot has to say about love and relationship.
Some said that her standards are too high...
What if that just how HIGH God's standard is anyway?
If you already have in mind what love is all about - there is not point reading it.
Read it; because you are truly looking for solid christ-centred principles that'll stand you in good stead, in faith, in life and in love.
What a breath of fresh air. In a society plagued with hedonism an earnest Christian can find great difficulty in knowing how to find a spouse. Between this book and Joshua Harris' " I Kissed Dating Goodbye" it became a relief to know that I was not alone in my disapproval for post-modern romance.
Every young person should read this book. Like, seriously. ❤️
The nice thing is, you're not just being preached at.
The author understands--she struggled, overcame (but not without things she wished they'd done differently), and now she's sharing her story.
Purity is so much more than not having sex before marriage, and passion is not a bad thing.
I'll be returning to this one again and again (probably even long into marriage) because of its stark reality and the encouragement to always put God first, whether you're the man or the woman.
This book is needed now more than ever.I highly recommend this for boys and girls of appropriate ages alike.
I found this book to be most relevant at ages 16+
{4.5 stars}First thoughts: "Why haven't I read this book before now?" But then it dawned on me that I needed it NOW...it would not have had the same effect a few years ago.Mid-way thoughts: "Honestly, no one can love like that." But then I realized that it is the pure kind of love and passion God expects of us.Three-fourth thoughts: "Jim, just marry her for goodness sake!" I was really getting impatiant for them to get married, but then I had to ask myself if I'd be willing to allow the Lord to bring patience and rest while waiting as they did.Ending thoughts: "Everyone should follow this principle." Although I didn't agree with every basis of Elisabeth and Jim's relationship, they set a very high example that many couples are not willing to follow.What I loved especially about this book is how she talked about singleness and contentment where God has us.
Not only is Mrs. Elliot an extraordinary writer she has the amazing gift of wrapping a story inside of a group of ideas that once discovered seem so natural and plain.While reading this book, I was overwhelmed emotionally.
Many times I was crying, at other times celebrating.
But ultimately I was taken aback by such a wonderful story of two young people who so relied on the Lord that they were willing to put their desires and wants to the side for the glory of God.While reading I realized that what they did in their love life is truly what I want.
I think Elliot's overall message is good and true.
I also disagree with much of what goes on in modern relationships, and think it needs addressing.
I felt Elisabeth was saying that a man has the right to treat a woman however he wants, and she has no right to even question him because he's the almighty man.
Men are human too, and need to be held accountable for how they treat women.
I felt very judged, as if Elisabeth were taking my x-boyfriend's side without even know us!
Now, I also disagree with the feminist approach of women initiation.
I don't have a love life, but I guess one day I will so I guess it won't hurt to read it." Since I've never dated and have high standards for myself and my future husband, I thought this book would not convict me, but I was wrong.
So much of this book can be applied to every area of life.
Am I willing to be single for the rest of my life knowing that my satisfaction comes from God alone?" These are the questions I feel define that book and challenge me.
It seems like the best idea in the world to never tell a girl 'I love you' unless you're next few words are 'Will you marry me?'I think this is what my situation will be like...unless I join a monastery first.The book really makes you realize how valuable chastity is.
I saw the Hope Diamond on display the day after I bought this book.
It is insured for $250 million dollars and I could not help but think that a girl that is still a virgin when she gets married is worth infinately more than the shiny blue typeII B diamond at the Smithsonian.
At the time, I found it to contain far too much passion and not enough purity.
When they got married, it was only a relief that they didn't have to control themselves any longer, rather than a joy to see the two united in the service of God. Because of this and other things, I couldn't even understand why Elisabeth wanted to marry Jim at all, or how he ended up being such a man of God.Looking back, I think it is likely that, in my innocence, I was so shocked by the physical side of their relationship, that I missed out on the many gems of truth and purity Elisabeth doubtless had written.
I may upset a few Elliot fans here, but I actually didn't like Jim at first. It seemed to me as if he led Elisabeth on, and that upset me because I would much rather courtship be initiated by the interested gentleman when both parties are ready to pursue marriage. But the Elliots' commitment to Christ, purity, and the good of the other--though imperfect as all are--is inspiring.

“Unless a man is prepared to ask a woman to be his wife, what right has he to claim her exclusive attention? Unless she has been asked to marry him, why would a sensible woman promise any man her exclusive attention? If, when the time has come for a commitment, he is not man enough to ask her to marry him, she should give him no reason to presume that she belongs to him.” Wow! I'm greatly rebuked and encouraged at the same time. God help us walk in purity!
This is a great book for singles assuming they are in love. This book is good for counselors to read while dealing with young people that are in love. A big word that they need to learn is 'patience' when questioning their relationship to each other. I recommend this book for teens.
A kind heart with God-focussed words, Scripture, letters, and quotes that help me focus my heart well. I enjoyed it, and would definitely read it again.
By the halfway point, I found that Mrs. Elliot was using Scripture, logic, and personal wisdom to make the case for restraint of our natural desires and trusting God, not just in relationships, but in all things.
Along with the Meaning of Marriage by Tim Keller, I think this is one of the most important books you can read if you want a challenging, Biblically-convicting take on the purpose of purity and how to keep passion under control.
Read this book, then go after Keller, who offers I think more of a focus on marriage than Elliot.
Several years ago, a respected friend in the pastorate (my youth pastor when I was a teen), recommended this book to me and told me it was the best book he had read on the love/dating/marriage relationship.I tucked that tidbit of knowledge in the cranium and jumped at the opportunity to read this book when it came my way.
Oh to have such a relationship with Christ that this woman and her future husband (Jim Elliot) had!
I absolutely loved this book and highly recommend it for anyone seeking a spouse and seeking a deeper relationship with Christ.
This book was alot different than I expected, but was good overall.
She shares her own dating/waiting, "already-not-yet" story of her relationship with Jim Elliot.
This book reminded me of my God-given, God-ordained role as a "woman" (haha, sounds weird) and how I should embrace the time of my singlehood to grow in an ever-growing devotion to the Lord, a submission to His Lordship, His timing and His plans/purposes for my life-- and how that will ultimately manifest itself in other areas in my life (my future, my marriage, etc.)An encouraging read.
I thought I'd find it interesting to reread what I had highlighted and written in the margins when I was single now that I'm married, but didn't expect to get just a ton out of it since it's written for those who are single.However, the book speaks so much to waiting, trusting God, and letting Him sustain you, that I ended up being really moved by many of the passages that touched me when I was single, but in relation to living with a chronic pain disorder.
It was the perfect book for me to read at this point in my life.

This book teaches you how to be patient in singleness, how to love passionately and still remain pure, and how to conduct yourself in a godly manner.
I have so much more respect for my boyfriend now than I did before I read this book.
Jim Elliot, Elisabeth's first husband (he was killed in South America, in the mission field) loved her so passionately and yet he strived to do God's will above all else.
My Billy is like that and I'm so grateful I read this book because it helped me to see the big picture more clearly.
"I have spent the event by a little pool which held the silent sky in its heart. There was no ripple, no stir. Lord, let me be that pool." Elisabeth Elliot has this marvelous ability to put the most profound and heart-stopping pieces of wisdom into succinct prose. Anyone who complains that they cannot wait, that they are lonely, that they worry, will be immediately reprimanded by the story of Elisabeth and Jim, waiting for God's will. I will definitely be reading this over again.
This is my impression of Elisabeth Elliot. "Why buy the cow when you can get the milk for free?! Eh? Eh?"Well Ees, 1. I'm not a cow, and 2. there is a world (unlike one that you could possibly conceive of) in which human relationships can't be boiled down to crass economic metaphors!
A must read for anyone who wants to know Christ's perspective and authority in a relationship.
Non-fiction/Christian living. This may be one of the shortest reviews I have written: Thank you, Ms. Elliot. Wow!
Many of today's works (I Kissed Dating Goodbye, Sex is not the Problem [Lust is], Porn Again Christian, and Every Young Man's Battle) tend to follow the same format as they systematically address various issues of purity while planting seeds of truth through the exposition of Scripture.
Spend several months in Quito, living with Ecuadorian families to learn Spanish by "immersion." August, Jim moves to Shandia in the eastern jungle to work with Quichua Indians.
This is obviously not a specific direction that all should follow, but the theme is clearly seen in Elisabeth's writing that both her and Jim waited on God's timing.
This book is rich. Though I don't agree with all their thoughts and practices, the heartbeat of surrendering all to Christ for His glory and trusting Him is loud and clear. It's just what a fickle heart like mine needs to have hammered into my heard over and over and over. I was surprised by its breadth of application. It's convicting and freeing, sobering and encouraging, romantic and practical. So grateful for the lives and legacy of the Elliots.
While the overall content of the book turned out differently than I expected, I found that I still learned a lot from Elisabeth Elliot's story on how to live the Christian life.
Pros- The book was very inspiring on living a life completely devoted to God. I admired how Jim and Elisabeth placed their desire to fulfill the mission of the church above everything else - it's what directed their relationship.
Overall, this book has a lot you can glean about how to live the Christian life.- I appreciated a lot of her direct, no-nonsense relationship advice.
“… waiting on God requires the willingness to bear uncertainty, to carry within oneself the unanswered question, lifting the heart to God about it whenever it intrudes upon one’s thoughts…” (61-62)I can't over-express the ways in which this book ministered to me.
Each chapter’s message came in perfect timing.
Without fail, there was always a simple thought of wisdom which helped guide my thoughts and the questions of my heart during the months in which I read this book.
Passion and Purity is an excellent book!
The book itself tells the love story of her and Jim. It brings up so many different topics surrounding passion, purity, and love.
Mrs. Elliot brings up so many topics that are relevant to today.
Physical purity, emotional purity, burning with passion, dying to self, waiting, loneliness, and so many other topics that are relevant to young people.
I was really encouraged by this book and definitely would recommend it to any young adult!
It is such a good book though and I was very encouraged in my pursuit for purity!
