https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11408650-the-unbecoming-of-mara-dyer
This novel is a very fine example of a certain brand of book that contains mediocre-at-best writing, unbelievably hot male love interests and is an empty, easy sell for young teen girls.
Noah really is quite laughably perfect (if you like controlling jerks, but I'll get to that in a second) with his perfect face, hair, body, smile (etc.), his massive fortune, his intelligence which includes knowledge of six languages and large quotes from various classic novels.
The word "slut" naturally appears several times in this novel and usually when the characters are talking about mean girl Anna who immediately decided to make Mara's life hell because Noah showed some interest in her.
In a Becca Fitzpatrick-like fashion, Michelle Hodkin fills her book with nonsensical things like a teacher (in a posh private school!) throwing stuff and insults at her students, or fortuitous situations where our lovebirds find themselves in various beds with no adults around (of course, there are super-duper paranormal reasons why the two can't go all the way), or one-dimensional characters - Mara's blonde mean girl arch-nemesis who turned a complete slut after dating our hero and an obligatory best new black Jewish bi friend (much better and more inventive than that obligatory best gay friend, right?)Pardon me while I go roll my eyes at this mess some more.P.S. I dare you to explain what exactly happened in this book.
But there’s also family and work and hopes and dreams to think about, and certainly if there are people dropping like flies, you’d think a girl would spend a little more time worrying about that instead of mooning over “the slender muscles in his arms.” (Mara really doesn’t seem to do anything outside of school and her only friend is a very politically correct bisexual black Jewish guy who pretty much functions as a Greek chorus.) The fact that there is so much attention paid to the way Noah looks and what Noah says is pretty sad—and honestly, although he has a few moments where I bordered on liking him, it never really happened.
I found them too, but I was prepared going in; I didn’t pick this up until after everyone else had already read it so I knew that these books set feminism back about 100 years.
I went into this book looking solely for an entertaining read and that’s precisely what I got.Obviously I can’t add anything new to the review narrative that’s been circulating since these books were written, but I will say that Hodkin has that special touch, the one that people are embarrassed to admit to adoring because it’s not “cool” to like books like these anymore, but secretly they fangirl over it because *swoon*.
I'd hear a strange sounds coming from my mouth only to realize, "Oh my, that was a chuckle." In many ways, I can really see why so many people would really like this book, but I can also see why others would want to gorge their eyes out with a high school cafeteria spork.
Most of the best moments for this book is between Mara and Noah, the love interest.
Later in the story, a small piece of me actually started to like him, but unlike Mara, I couldn't excuse his original jackassness.
♦This is THE best book I’ve ever read.♦I don’t rate my books one star to five stars. I rate my books one-star to “The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer.” People always want to know what my absolute hands-down favorite book is. And it’s funny because when they ask, they always give me that good minute-long silence for me to think it over. But I never need a minute. And I probably never will.This is my favorite book.This book is my trump card whenever my friends and I are talking about the most amazing boo
♦This is THE best book I’ve ever read.♦I don’t rate my books one star to five stars.
I rate my books one-star to “The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer.” People always want to know what my absolute hands-down favorite book is.
And I probably never will.This is my favorite book.This book is my trump card whenever my friends and I are talking about the most amazing books ever written during those 3 a.m. conversations; it’s the book that I’ve read 14 times; it’s the only book that I have that’s completely covered in margin notes.
Maybe Noah wasn’t asking.
“This thing what I’ve done—there’s something wrong with me, Noah.
It’s a paranormal story with scenes that border on illogical and highly infused with sometimes cringe-worthy, sometimes heart-stopping romance.BUT.It’s also thrilling and hard to put down.
There isn’t much of it, but the reader is constantly on the edge of his seat, because he knows it will appear at some point.Mara Dyer is a snarky, if not judgmental and headstrong, heroine.
He and Mara are two strong characters and, though I hate to admit it because the romance irked me most of the time, they do make a perfect match.It’s definitely a character-driven story.
The plot is there, and honestly I always wanted to know what would happen, but there is not much description.
“But without my big mouth, no one would know that a seventeen-year-old who likes Death Cub for Cutie was responsible for the murders. No one would know that somewhere out there is a B student with a body count. And it's important that you know, so you're not next.”  This book messed with my sanity. It teased it, played with it and then tossed it aside and left me trying to gather my wits, something that felt like catching feathers in a tornado. Impossible.I was very hesitant to start this book
“But without my big mouth, no one would know that a seventeen-year-old who likes Death Cub for Cutie was responsible for the murders.
It teased it, played with it and then tossed it aside and left me trying to gather my wits, something that felt like catching feathers in a tornado.
What makes The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer a unique reading experience
Noah, despite you being an asshole, or maybe because of it, I'd like to rip off your clothes and have your babies.” 
Hot.I loved his scenes with Mara, the way he refused to give up on her and supported her.
You know when you read a book and you can stop rolling your eyes and think “I’m too old for this shit”?!
Her finding a way to prove how much better she is than said teacher when she becomes fluent in Spanish pretty much overnight… that only happens in your head, not in real life.The love interest is a stylishly disheveled boy with a British accent that wants nothing else than the plain main character because “she’s not like other girls” (he actually says that out loud!).
I got flashbacks from Twilight…Said main character becomes arch enemy with the pretty popular girl just because.
I'm going to try to get my very gushing thoughts in order for you guys.When I opened the pages of The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer I had no idea what to expect.
The vague synopsis, the eerie cover, and the fantastic title really set the tone for the book.
So although I didn't quite know what to expect, I fell in love with this unique and extremely captivating story very, very early on.Who is Mara Dyer you may ask.
The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer is a book I could read over and over, and I probably will.This is an incredible debut.
Twilight is the Twilight of that.Anyway.The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer has all those fresh fresh 2011 tropes we knew and loved back in the day, and they...do not look clean as a whistle in the harsh light of modernity.Young adult fantasy isn’t exactly a utopia in 2018, but man, reading this book really made me wonder how we survived for so many years!
Every mean character (meaning every single female who isn’t Mara, her love interest’s sister, or her brother’s girlfriend) is described for the absolute horrors of their, like, showing a shoulder or whatever.Gasp!One little tidbit that I forgot even happened in this type of book was that a natural branching off from the not like other girls trope was the you-don’t-need-makeup cliché????
SPOILER FREE REVIEW: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5fQpa...People have been recommending this to me for ages and I just decided to pick it up on a whim recently and oh my freaking god, this was amazing.
I flew through this and literally had to force myself to put it down and get some sleep..
it was that good.
The characters were amazing, the plot was amazing, the writing was amazing, IT WAS SO GOOD.
I'll film a more coherent review soon, I need time to process my thoughts and that cliffhanger.
I'm thoroughly convinced it will actually happen soon enough.
She never does anything actually mean to Mara besides calling her a slut for getting with Noah (which all of the main characters pretty much do to her, not saying that it's right) and taking her sketch book and making fun of her drawings.
I know you're laughing at me right now, so shut up.....anyway, if you'd all get your mind out of the gutter for a moment to listen to me bitch some more, the point is that Noah isn't any of the things the book, or more to say Mara, tries to make him out to be.And what is it with the British accent fetish?
The plot begins a mystery, and ends a mystery, and it's like the author didn't know what she was actually writing about, but just needed a magical background to make the romance less stale.Newsflash: the romance is stale as fuck.
It thinks it's fucking adorable.
And then there's the magical realism which isn't trash, it's ingenious, because we've done vampires and angels and werewolves and this book is just so much more sophisticated than that - so sophisticated, in fact, that we don't even know what it is.What exactly is Mara Dyer's unbecoming?
*lights dim and a single spotlight focuses on me; a narrator's voice comes out of the loudspeakers* Cait doesn't think The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer can get any more terrible than reading Twilight and having no memory how she read that without imploding.It can.She believes that there must be more to this book with the beautiful cover that left her friends squealing and biting their nails in anticipation and left her mysteriously excited.
She doesn't believe that after everything she's read about this book, she can't not instantly fall in love with it.She's wrong.The Unbecoming of Mara Dyer is everything I hoped it wouldn't be, and even more.

Shit Shit Shit Noah effing Shaw Shit Shit Shit ShitDamn you for making me squeal like an idot in front of other people!
I don't want to jinx it by proclaiming it had broke me out of my month-long slump because really it's too early to tell but what I can definitely say is my attention didn't waver the whole day I was reading the book.
Mara was not like that at all: she didn't suddenly tossed aside her messed up life and she actually had the presence of mind to want to put her shit together before thinking of having a boyfriend.
Pfftyou know I am sooo reading book 2!
But it was still on my ereader so I thought, "Why no give it a go?"I'm so glad I did, because I could have missed out on one of the best stories I have ever read!Mara Dyer has just survived a horrible accident, her friends weren't so lucky.To help cope with the stress, her parents move the entire family to a new town.
The lines between reality and fantasy begin to blur.
I'd like to mention that I loved, loved, loved Noah!I find it very difficult to stick this book under one genre.
I'll keep this short, I can't write a review on this book without giving away the plot.
I think I have a new book boyfriend!I’m sure the plot wasn’t perfectly played and I definitely spotted loopholes in the storyline but you don’t get to read a lot of good paranormal stories these days.
The school setting and bullies were stereoptypical and the romance wasn’t something I haven’t read before but I don’t know, I felt hypnotized.
When a girl tells a story about how she could be the suspect for the murder of her friends, you definitely WILL listen.
;) You’ll listen more when she tells you about this perfectly beautiful guy (despite his always tousled look) who smells of ocean and sandalwood.
My general thoughts on the book remain the same as the last time I read this; the romance was a bit cheesy, but the mystery and plot twists really held the whole thing together!Onwards to book 2!!First read in January 2013WOOO.
At times the main Mara and Noah gave off a very "Bella & Edward" vibe which was a bit of a turn-off for me, but the whole mystery and creepiness of the book was great!
Now I really want to read the second book, but I'll have to wait until my birthday or something for somebody to get it for me since I'm not allowed to buy books this year!
I keep hearing mixed things about this series.I am intrigued to read it because of the mind thing and it really sounds interesting.Any feedback?
What a mind trip this book was! Throughly enjoyed it!
This book was so darn creepy and delicious that I just want to take a moment to shriek: IT IS REALLY GOOD at you.
So I went into this book knowing a lot of people liked it but not knowing really what it was about.
But they seemed okay to let her run out with Noah ALL THE TIME when it was clear she should be, erm, maybe looked after a little more closely.• Mara's name is kinda a spoiler...Don't look up her name, obviously, if you don't want to know.
GOTTA LOVE THIS BOOK BASICALLY.
This beauty is currently on sale for 1.99 (it's usually I think 10.99?!?) http://amzn.to/2xiinVD “I didn’t know what was real, what was a nightmare, what was a memory.” – Mara Dyer Well Mizz Mara Dyer, you and I have that in common. I spent the majority of this book in a state of utter confusion with the question “WTF is happening?” on repeat in my brain. Let’s break it down quickly, shall we? Mara Dyer wakes up in a hospital having been involved in an accident she has no recollection of. Becaus
Because of this accident, Mara is left in a state of confusion, suffering from hallucinations, hearing voices, having vivid nightmares…or are they memories?
And because of the nature of the accident, which I shall not divulge because that would be a spoiler (!), Mara and her family move to Florida to start over in hopes of Mara’s odd behavior stopping.
I didn't read much on this book before I started it, and I wasn’t even sure how I wanted to rate it, but after finishing and not being able to stop thinking about the story I knew this one was a winner.
The novel just grips you and won't let you breath until you've read it all!Most of what I have to say about the Unbecoming of Mara Dyer is positive.I've read it twice now and I have to say that I really very much enjoy reading the dialouges.
You cannot know what will happen on the next page.
A bigger one than in the beginning actually.I love how you never know if the main character is actually going crazy or if someone is somehow playing with her mind.Another thing I love are the characters: Daniel, Joseph and Noah.
Well hello there - I know Mara and Bella sound similar, but sorry, wrong book buddy!Other than being a 17 year old who speaks several languages, gets straight As without ever paying attention or having to study, has loads of money, an incredibly big house, and no girl who's ever been able to get under his skin until the new girl arrives - the new girl who falls unconditionally and irrevocably in love with him - he's very original, right?
We've got an impostor!*End rant*I have a soft spot for thrillers and creepy stories.
Regardless of the flaws, this story captivated me. Everything was too easy, the characters too clichéd, the romance too center stage, considering the "paranormal" genre it's put in..but I'm still hooked, feeling very "*~omg omg noah shaw*♡"
I...I can't even...what in the world...DID I JUST READ?This book is wrong in so many ways. Wrong and confusing. Wrong, confusing and weird.What is  wrong?  Pfftt, honey, the whole book is wrong to be exact.I just can't believe that this book, with such an amazing cover plus having an awesome *trailer (With a hot hero) which can convince almost everyone to read this and then having such a mysterious yet gripping blurb to make this book sound so good to the readers here, can be so...bad. *http://w
I...I can't even...what in the world...DID I JUST READ?This book is wrong in so many ways.
(Yeah this has taken my attention, I am starting to like this book) But then there is this huge, huge gap in which every single fuck is forgotten and we see Noah and Mara spending the whole time together.
(Please tell me I am reading the same freaking book right now -.-) Then after a while, we come to know Noah has powers.
Mara - A totally, officially A* stupid weird heroine, who's point of view wasn't so pleasant to read.
This book was sooo good
My name is not Mara Dyer, but my lawyer told me I had to choose something.
a pseudonym.
a nom de plume, for all of us studying SATs. I know that having a fake name is strange, but trust me - it's the most normal thing about my life right now.
REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK Well okay.
Not that perfect.
Second read showed me that, this book was not at all perfect as I thought it was, the first time I read it.
But still, the 5 stars remain.
I've read this book back in 2012 I think.
And there were stuff in this book, that I actually hated, but still loved at the same time.
She was attracted, yes, but not crazy in love like most YA girls are in books.
But there are two more books, so we'll just have to find out what other stuff, Noah has up his sleeve to make Mara less crazy.Minor CharactersFirstly, I would have to say that Daniel is the best brother ever.
There were a lot of times, that Mara was trying so hard not to like Noah.
Let me know if you've read this book and would like to discuss it.
NOPE.
