https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4620.Geisha
The show's material came, for the most part, from the first four chapters of the book, which cover a good deal of history, and ignored the rest, which is more of a personal accounting of Dalby's time in Kyoto and her research in Tokyo and some of the smaller towns.Dalby's account is straightforward and precise, though I don't want to give the impression there's nothing here that would give the reader a sense of personal experience; far from it.
Dalby takes the reader through the world of geisha, its history, its context, and most importantly the outside world's misconception of it.

I've been an enthusiast of Japan and the Japanese culture since a young age, so Geisha by Liza Dalby was perhaps unsurprisingly an incredibly engaging and illuminating read for me.
Undeniably, geisha is a subject that has been greatly misconceived by the American culture since World War II.
Many today still believe that they are merely glorified prostitutes; a subject that Liza thoroughly addresses in her book with pictures and descriptions of practices between the two.
This book was amazing! I learned so many new things, and I loved all of the pictures. Liza Dalby brings so much information and personal experience to this anthropological study of Geisha. It makes me wish that I could have also experienced what she was able to. Highly recommend if you are at all interested in this subject.

so many books on Geisha Culture. Read this one first then proceed to watch Arthur Golden Memoir of a Geisha. Then you can stop reading about Geisha... This book can be found at secondhand book store if you are lucky.Liza gave an extensive view of an interesting and fascinating world of being being a Geisha. Music, Poetry and the art of entertaining.a must read.
It seems more honest to take away any pretence that there is no bias on the part of the author; the reader can clearly perceive the anecdotal nature of the study.The very word geisha, means ‘artist.’ This is the aspect that Dalby brings to the forefront in her book.
Dalby portrays the geisha as being somehow separate to ‘normal’ Japanese society, as in ‘flower and willow world,’ women rule.
Geisha are free in many ways that the average Japanese woman is not.But Dalby plays down the fact that despite all this freedom, even geisha’s lives tend to revolve around men.
She barely touches on the way in which the powerful patriarchy of Japan limits all women, even those with the most freedom: geisha.
Like most other readers (I'm guessing), I'd read Memoirs of a Geisha before I ever heard of this book.
:)I think this is best to read after Memoirs of a Geisha because then potential mismatches of culture in the fictional account won't bother you so much, but you will be intrigued to learn more.
It's hard to come away from the book with the same mindset you entered it with (from either a Japanese or Western perspective, if Dalby's explanation of the geisha as a somewhat mysterious phenomenon in Japan itself is true).Clear, readable, and interesting nonfiction.
I like this much, much more than Arthur Golden's Memoirs of a Geisha, but ti's still a bit problematic. A 1970's sociologist studying Japan's geisha culture, Liza Dalby presents an intriguing, nuanced look at the subject. Whether discussing the finer points of tying kimono or handling tipsy customers, Dalby manages to craft an engaging, elegant read that is insightful and illuminating. Part of me had trouble shaking the feeling that this was still vaguely Orientalist in its orientation, but her research is good and her writing sympathetic and well-stated. A very good read.
This is a fascinating book giving all kinds of insight into geisha life and Japanese culture.
Liza Dalby studied geisha life as an anthropologist, and by living as a geisha.
There were places where I found the narrative structure/underpinnng logic hard to follow, moving between subjects.
The book is neither fully detached and academic, nor purely personal account, and sometimes the mingling of the two is awkward, and frequently it left me wanting more.That said, there was much that I enjoyed, I learned a great deal, the images included were excellent, and mostly my problem was that wanted the book to be twice as big and laden with far more detail.
Lots of great information but I didn't really like how Dalby writes. Sometimes it almost seems like she is prejudiced toward Westerners...Like many of the other reviews say, a better editor would have been beneficial because there are many, many typos throughout the book. Dalby even gets the capital of Japan wrong once in the feudal era too.There's lots of information here about geisha but I don't think it's the BEST source. Dalby talks about geisha via her personal narrative so sometimes we learn more about her personal experiences than we do about geisha.
Fascinating first-hand account of an Australian woman who did participant/observer field work in Pontocho, Kyoto. She actually became a geiko (Kyoto-ben/language for geisha). Extremely detailed anthropological account of her time there in the late 70's. So, far, I am really appreciating how hard she works to show a balanced, academic viewpoint, and not devolve into overly glorifying shlock about geisha.
Interessantissimo e coinvolgente! Per chi ha visto e letto "Memorie di una Geisha", è come rituffarsi a capofitto nei vicoli di Kyoto, nelle case di mezzo secolo fa che ancora oggi resistono allo scorrere del tempo e sembrano quasi incastonate in un'altra dimensione! Lo consiglio davvero a tutti coloro che amano il Giappone profondamente come la sottoscritta e per tutti quelli che sono affascinati dall'universo femminile del Sol Levante!
Liza Dalby apparently became a geisha for a few months in about 1976, for her anthropology grad work.
Her descriptions of life in the geisha house are vivid and well written, though I would have enjoyed a bit more background information.
When did she first begin to study the language?
What influenced her decision to study geisha life in particular?
Highschool exchange programme, or something else?) but not much information about how she was drawn into a culture which at the time was so very different from the US.In the text, Dalby mentions dreaming of being the Margaret Mead of geisha.
Dalby has written a VERY thorough book covering all aspect of geisha life, yet it's never dry or boring.
It strikes the perfect balance between travelogue and dissertation--yes, there is plenty of fact and history and pondering of culture, but also plenty of humor, tragedy, and personal experience which serves to lighten the whole piece.
Yet Dalby's book went further back into history and deeper into every cultural aspect than any others I've stumbled across.
If you truly want to understand geisha--their culture, their daily life, their history, and their place in modern Japanese society, this is the one-stop shop.
A pity though that the book was written in 1976.
Great look inside world of geishas - women of art, "owners" of those feminine characteristics not considered in Japanese culture as owned or shouldn't been showned by wives like sexiness.
Book explains differences in Japanese views on women taking in consideration their positions like wife, geisha or unmmaried woman.
It also gives an explaination about the fact that people from West (Europe, America) often treat geishas as exclusive prostitutes, which is very untrue.
Liza Dalby wrote that in cities being popular resorts to spend holidays often existed a category of women that were acting like geishas, but were prostitutes.
I loved the book Memoirs of a Geisha as a fictional account and it was my first introduction to the Geisha lifestyle.
I feel that Liza Dalby's "Geisha" is a book version of a FAQ on Geisha.
I think the most interesting parts are when Ms. Dalby explains the differences between a prostitute and a geisha, although, with my westernized upbringing there are still some hazy areas.
I found the writing a bit disjointed at times and would have preferred the book to have been separated into two different books, the memoirs and the Geisha cultural study.
A break from my usual reading, this was a very enjoyable and fairly intimate look into the world of Pontocho's geisha.
It's a world about which there are many rumours and misunderstandings, and Dalby does a good job of sorting these things out.
I especially enjoyed learning more about Japan and its culture, which has always intrigued me, and the chapter on the kimono was a pleasantly engrossing surprise (yes, I sew, and therefore should have expected to be so interested, but I digress).
Most of all, though, I appreciated 'meeting' the people, mostly geisha, she lived with and learning about what life is generally like for them.
A fascinating insight into Japanese culture and the world of Geisha society.
Her knowledge of Japanese culture, both inside and outside that of the Geisha community, is extensive and comes from many years of being immersed in that culture.
Although primarily a look at the various Geisha communities opperating in Japan Dalby also makes observations on other aspects of the culture as they relate to the Flower and Willow world.
While I struggled with some of the Japanese words the book is still very readable and a must for anyone interested in this nation.
This is a really interesting book written by an American anthropologist who went to Japan and actually become a geisha. It's a really interesting insight not just into the geisha life but its cultural context as well - the history, politics, literature, class structure. The author, known as the geisha Ichigiku, really has a great love and fascination for her subject and it really shows in this book. I found it endlessly fascinating. And it's making me want to go and read Memoirs of a Geisha again.
I read this book while living in Japan (before "Memoirs of a Geisha" was published). We visited Kyoto often during our 31 Months there, and Liza'a insight helped inform our experience. We were fascinted and interested in reading about other westerners' experiences adjusting to the Japanese cultural. (Visiting Japan is VERY different than living there!)It is an interesting insight into the hidden world of the geisha. This way of life is dying since younger women aren't interested. So, records of 'how it was' are worth exploring.
Avevo aspettative enormi per questo libro... aspettative che sono andate a rotoli!Ho chiuso il libro con una sensazione amara. Lo stile della Dalby è così freddo da gelare un inverno intero! Mi aspettavo una descrizione precisa e dettagliata della vita delle Geishe, invece, l'autrice non si è sprecata più di tanto. Descrizioni approssimate, importanti cerimonie e riti solo accennati...Delusione totale!
A facinating read by Liza Dalby, the only foreigner to have ever become a geisha. Half memoir, half historical text, Geisha is a wonderful text that covers everything one needs to know about these exotic artists. I would definitely recommend this book as a reference tool for anyone writing a historical novel set in Japan, and it a definite must read for anyone interested in Asian Studies, Women Studies, or Anthropology.
The first thing that struck me when this book arrived through the post were the amazing pictures. They were in a sophisticated style, taking the form of large mosaic pieces, and yet still simple enough for a child to understand. The story was simple and charming, although it finished quite abruptly and I found myself wanting it to continue. A came out of reading it was a greater understanding of the saintly origins of Valentine's Day.
Liza Dalby does a good job of exploring the state of the geisha in early 1970s Japan, and giving enough historical context to both show the transformation the role was going through at that time and that, to a certain extent, it has always been in a state of transformation. The only thing that bothered me about the book was that at times it felt like she was taking pains to tell us what an awesome geisha she had been. A very worthwhile read.
This is a brilliant book for anyone who wants to learn about the geisha of Japan, written by someone who has first-hand experience. Liza Dalby, an anthropologist, was the first westerner to be accepted and trained as a geisha and this resulting book is her dissertation on the subject. As it was written in the 1970s some of the information is a little bit dated but I think it stands the test of time as a great book to introduce someone to the subject.
I enjoyed this far more than 'Geisha of Gion', as it was much more insightful about the life of a modern geisha, and covers those outside the Kansai region. Dalby also touches on Kimono etiquette and what colours or patterns are appropriate in certain seasons. This has intruiged me so much that I've also bought her specialist book all about it!If you want to know more about these mysterious figures, this is a fantastic read.
I borrowed this book from my co-worker who teaches Japanese. I love it. It's a fascinating memoir, historical document, and anthropological work. The explanations and insights into this subculture are fascinating and help clarify details of Japanese culture that I had not understood before. A must-read for anyone interested in not only geisha, but Japanese dress, male-female relations, aspects of traditional culture, and Japanese history. Fascinating and a page-turner!
A well researched book into the floating world of the willow. The reader must remember that this was researched in the 70s, so for an updated look at the geisha at the turn of the century refer to Lesley Downer's book, Women of the Pleasure Quarters. It does repeat some of what Dalby writes, though.
Read this 25 years ago while living in Japan. So interesting that a westerner was able to 'break' into the world of the Geisha. Again tradition ruled. And to think this was Lisa Dalby's thesis. She really investigated the life of a Geisha and made it so readable. This is one of those "keepers".
