https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9833184-the-fiery-heart
after ages of waiting i got to read it and i totally loved it!
I cant tell you how steamy some scenes were and you just need to read the book NOW!Their relationship was well written.
What i seriously missed in this book was screen time with Eddie and Trey.
I liked Neil but i absolutely detest Zoe. I get that she is wanting to be a good alchemist and make her dad proud and all that but seriously she such a BITCH!
Sydney and Adrian are gonna be together!ADRIAN, I LOVE YOU!!!Zoe better not get between them or else!OMG!
Sydney sat on the bed and rose as I approached.And she was naked.“You want to get breakfast?” I asked.“We can’t go out together.
It’s got everything that made me fall in love with this series but it takes all that to a much higher level and you can feel how high the stakes are and how much Adrian and Sydney are risking by being together.
I personally love all the characters in this book, but sadly they didn’t appear much.
Basically, this book is a love story and if you’re in it for Sydrian, it will be heaven.
But for right now...Chapter 1 from Adrian's POVhttp://shelf-life.ew.com/2013/07/29/r..."I won't lie.
Walking into a room and seeing your girlfriend reading a baby-name book can kind of make your heart stop." OMG!!!
We get Adrian's POV!!!!!
So excited!!!And we'll have Adrian's POV in the rest of the series!Q: Why did you choose to make an Adrian's POV in the fourth book?
Is it just for fun or you needed to do it for the plot?
Richelle Mead: It is because of the plot.
It's going to be getting bigger, and not all of it will happen while Sydney and Adrian are together.
Not as good as The Indigo Spell as a lot of it felt like filler (really cute filler that made me giggle quite a lot, but filler nonetheless), but the ending makes me want to immediately dive into the next book, Silver Shadows! Richelle Mead is a fantastic writer and even her weaker books are immensely entertaining and will get you out of a reading slump, as it did with me just now. Now, please excuse me. I need to get to reading Silver Shadows.
This installment is really Adrian's story. It's really fun being in his head, and there is some serious Sydrian chemistry! Full review is on the blog: http://www.themidnightgarden.net/2013...But seriously.What. Happened. To. Everyone's. HAIR.:-(
I mean it was amazing, mind-blowing even and yes, simple perfection, which isn't a surprise when it's about a book that has Adrian Ivashkov in it, but oh...
And not just all because of Adrian, though of course he plays a big factor in me loving this book and series.
Of course there's the usual ones like Jill, Eddie, Trey, Angeline.
But even with how totally shocked and sad it made me, it's a pretty good ending if you want to give your readers a heart attack and make them crave the next book like they're hooked on drugs.
One is the completely bias fangirl, who obsesses over characters and a world she loves.
It just seemed like a load of teenage angst (bear in mind that I love this series and it kills me to say that, so you know it's my honest opinion rather than just plain ol' book bashing).
I know Mead, and even though it's the characters that drive her books I was thoroughly disappointed in the story itself!
And now because I've been so kind I'm going to go and crawl up in a corner and cuddle Dimitri for a little bit, while I wait for the next book to come out and amaze me.
And I don't say that lightly after Shadow Kiss."- Richelle Mead about the ending of this book.OH MY GOD.Kinda scared.
I have a feeling Fiery Heart will be like Shadow Kiss.A crying festival.
Am I right ?Richelle: I don't know if it'll be a crying festival, but I think a lot of books will be thrown across the room.
For those familiar with the first series, it's kind of like what "Shadow Kissed" and "Blood Promise" were—the point where the plot just really jumps up.
06/09/13 Update: Richelle Mead talking about this book: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUPvei...(Anyone else scared?)Here are two mini excerpts!
Love is... a flame in the dark. A breath of warmth on a winter's night. A star that guides you home. Richelle Mead did it again! Oh yes, you're probably tired of reading that in my reviews. But really, can you say otherwise? This book has given me all the Sydrian dose I needed and. so. much. more. It's that good kind of overdose you'd never recover from. Certainly worth the agonizing wait!Our favorite couple (or should I say one of our favorites? Since we have tons of ships in this series) is f
Yes, I know it started in the last book, but I've been so excited to know of their progress since that time.
I know you've heard and read this a million times but Sydney had come a really long way.
But what I love most is the fact that despite all the magic and otherworldly stuff now filling the lives of the characters of this series, we keep coming back to main focus of this series.
But Angeline would really surprise you in this book.
*dreamy sigh*But as much as I would love to stay in that wonderful, wonderul chapters of the book, I have to face the fact that that last 3 chapters happen.
which is really interesting because I also struggled with the fourth book in the Vampire Academy series!
What is it about the fourth books?Anyways, I did think that the middle of this story was kind of dull compared to the first three...
It's nothing like the pain I felt at the end of the third Vampire Academy book though.
Nothing can compare to that..(view spoiler)[I had a feeling that it would be this book or the next that Sydney's relationship with Adrian would be discovered.
and Zoe would get over her prejudices like Sydney did.
I don''t really know what's going to happen..
My anxiety faded. I took a deep breath and met the gazes of all those watching me in the room. Who was I to do this?I was Adrian Ivashkov. And I was about to kick some ass. Actual rating: 3.5Here's my very controversial take on this book: I wish Sydrian never happened. What can I say, I loved the sexual tension and the chemistry of Sydney and Adrian as they battled for and against their feelings for each other more than I love their actual romance.Please don't take my rating and my statement to
What can I say, I loved the sexual tension and the chemistry of Sydney and Adrian as they battled for and against their feelings for each other more than I love their actual romance.Please don't take my rating and my statement to mean that I did not like this book.
Sydney and Adrian were so instrumental in each others' growth, and as happy as I am to see them achieve happiness as a couple, I can't help feel that their overwhelming romance took place at the expense of the plot.
I'm not sure what the series is about anymore — the books have gone off into different tangents and seem to more about Sydney's magic, the Alchemists, Adrian's perfect HEA, and the stirgoi problem.
I didn't notice her flat personality in the first 3 books because I was kept entertained by Sydney's character development — she changed her principles, she embraced vampires and love, she rebelled against the Alchemists, and she accepted her magic.
Sydney has enough to worry about (Jill, her sister, her magic, not getting caught out by the Alchemists) and Adrian just makes her life even more difficult.
5 Centrum Permanebit Heartbreakingly Emotional, Sensual, Fun StarsWill it, Sydney? I wondered.Because I’m falling apart._ Adrian full review to come------------------------------------------I`m in Sydrianish!!!!!! ZONEIT'll BE FREAKIN` EPIC!!!------------------------------Sydney's 911Cellphone knows how to kill Sydrian MomentA Little Teaser #Sydrian snippet from "The Fiery Heart" to kill the time untill  Official VAMPIRE ACADEMY Movie  Trailer Release this week!!! Excerpt (From Sydney's POV- 4 p
5 Centrum Permanebit Heartbreakingly Emotional, Sensual, Fun StarsWill it, Sydney? I wondered.Because I’m falling apart._
  Adrian
full review to come------------------------------------------I`m in Sydrianish!!!!!! ZONEIT'll BE FREAKIN` EPIC!!!------------------------------Sydney's 911Cellphone knows how to kill Sydrian MomentA Little Teaser #Sydrian snippet from "The Fiery Heart" to kill the time untill 
  Official VAMPIRE ACADEMY Movie
 Trailer Release this week!!! Excerpt (From Sydney's POV- 4 pages!), Mini Excerpt (From Adrian's POV), and Quote (by Abe Mazur)!!"The Fiery Heart is going to be told from both Sydney and Adrian's points of view" - Richelle Mead
I’ll only say:Zoe, KILL HER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! -------------------------------------------------------------------GUYS HOLD ON!‘The center will hold’‘The center will hold’‘The center will hold’BUT THE CENTER MUST HOLD! PLEASE...
Maybe the alchemist side of the story and all of the new characters just don't do it for me.I'm still also trying to reconcile in my head how much magic humans can do now.
Are we heading into a world where the poor guardians can go extinct because yet another race ends up having more value with them?...and Hopper.
Even a weaker Richelle Mead book still ends up being better than 90% of the stuff I read, so I have to give credit where it's due.
Curse me all you want but I think the romance was the main focus of the book, hence resulting in a weak plot.
(view spoiler)[The Sydney we knew wouldn't be thinking about car sex if every move of hers was being monitored by powerful and dangerous Alchemists, who wouldn't hesitate to take her in if they found out about her relationship with Adrian.
The good thing about it was that Mead distinguishes between Sydney and Adrian perfectly and it was obvious in whose head we were.
With Sydney, we only got a glimpse of what he was dealing with, but actually looking at things from Adrian's perspective was just lovely.
Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love Adrian Love
“The center will hold.”“How do you know?”“Because we are the center.”     “It’s Adrian Ivashkov logic. Don’t try to understand it. Just roll with it.”
Edit 28/02/13:So, synopsis and cover are out.
I kinda hope she'll be sent to re-education, that'd be an interesting turn of events!
:DAnd yes, the wait is still killing me.-----------------------------------------Edit 14/02/13:Expected publication: November 19th 2013 I don't think I'll be able to wait that long.And now the title makes much more sense, I love it even more!-----------------------------------------It has a title!
And I really like it, The Fiery Heart is a pretty cool name.Also, "The Fiery Heart is going to be told from both Sydney and Adrian's points of view.
If you've ever wanted to get inside the crazy world of Adrian Ivashkov's head, this is it.
but I think it's gonna be interesting being in Adrian's head!
If you are looking for an action-packed book, then maybe this is not for you because dang it, this is so emotionally powered with everything Sydrian feels I'm going crazy right now!Full review laterThe Fiery Heart is going to be told from both Sydney and Adrian's points of view......both Sydney and Adrian's point of view...Sydney and Adrian's point of viewAND Adrian's point of viewADRIAN'S. POINT. OF. VIEW.ADRIAN'S............................................WUT IS AIR?! ANVDJAGHDBAHGDUADBAVHFDUABDNAVDA!!!!!!!!!THE FIERY HEART,You just granted my long time dream. THANK YOU RICHELLE MEAD!
I can say without a shadow of a doubt that it is my favourite book of the series so far - and there are still two more to come.The beginning of The Fiery Heart sees Adrian and Sydney's newly bloomed relationship tested by the previous book's surprise arrival.
The series was strong with Sydney as sole narrator but it's stronger with Adrian, as he's such a dynamic character.Like the earlier books, there are a lot of sub-plots operating in The Fiery Heart.
I ALWAYS LOVE THESE BOOKS! THIS ONE IS JUST AS GOOD AS THE ONES BEFORE. I HOPE THEY GET TO SYDNEY IN TIME BEFORE ..WELL I DON'T WANT TO SPOIL IT, BUT LET'S JUST SAY I HOPE THEY GET TO SYDNEY TIME. I LIKE THE LOVE STORY BETWEEN SYDNEY AND ADRIAN GOING TO THE NEXT LEVEL. I AM EXCITED TO SEE WHERE THE NEXT ONE TAKES THE GROUP.
BloodlinesThe Golden LilyThe Indigo SpellThe Emerald WishThe Silver EmblemThe Scarlet Dream(Those last three titles are totally made up, but wouldn't it be great if at least one coincidentally gets picked up for an actual title? Fingers crossed.:D)
No scratch that, if I was a 100 YA books younger, I might've loved this.(view spoiler)[I feel like I'm obliged to point out that I'm becoming more and more captious by every book ( and this is just the beginning ).
Why is it that I feel like the plot is Sydney and Adrian (I have no inclination to call them Sydrian.
I had this sense of amiss, as if I have missed a book ( or two, in which an actual amorous relationship between Sydney and Adrian might have blossomed ) and have been thrust into strangers' lives.
You can check out more reviews by me on my blog:YET ANOTHER EDIT**Just to remind everyone of this scene from Indigo Spell which is where 'Fiery Heart' comes from:"His eyes were on his heart, completely caught up in his work. “Just something kicking around in my head. Reminds me of you. Fiery and sweet, all at the same time. A flame in the dark, lighting my way.”"EDIT*The cover was released!This feel like blasphemy.. But I- I Don't really like it....__30/08/2012________________________________________________________Over & Out, T xx
This has nothing to do with the book but I've started to hate those stupid people who post ∞ gifs on their 'reviews' before they even read the book. I get it, you are excited, I am too, but it takes forever to load the damn page. I post, maybe, one or two gifs but when you post more than 5, you are a moron. If you have a problem with what I said,deal with it. full review to come.
4.5/5are you kidding me? are. you. kidding. meyou gave us that cliffhanger and now we have to wait for 8 months?!?lord, help us.
Date: 8/21/12Book #3  The Indigo Spell , hasn't come out yet. And here we are, excitedly waiting for the fourth book. A title is yet to come. For the title, I was thinking *  The Emerald Wish  *. Richelle Mead, if by any chance you are reading this, I am 110% okay with you using the title. I don't really know if you take readers' ideas, but please consider this one. The title goes very well with the other titles in the series, and it's basically perfect. I mean, Adrian has emerald eyes, and the
Date: 8/21/12Book #3 
The Indigo Spell
, hasn't come out yet.
And here we are, excitedly waiting for the fourth book.
A title is yet to come.
For the title, I was thinking *
*. Richelle Mead, if by any chance you are reading this, I am 110% okay with you using the title.
I mean, Adrian has emerald eyes, and the title could explain how Sydney *-wishes-* her and Adrian could be together {forever}.So, *
The Emerald Wish
The Emerald Wish
Like this if you really like the title, and Richelle Mead could see how much we love it.
It was very interesting, and of course Sydney would figure out how to do it with only sodium chloride instead of some fancy rock only found in Mexico!Oh wait...you wanna know what else happened in the last book?
He's kind of like Adrian's dad....only worse.I hate him from the bottom of my heart, even more than the alchemists because he doesn't care squat about his daughters, I don't care WHAT he says.
The series has gone downhill for me. -Adrian's POV should never have happened.-Sappy romance is really irritating-especially when it constantly overrides the plot.-There is no constant tension or excitement in the Fiery Heart, which is visible in many of Richelle Mead's previous books in the VA series.- I feel as if this was just simply rushed. The Fiery Heart felt like a very big filler to me.
