https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/198483.The_Infernal_Desire_Machines_of_Doctor_Hoffman
Επιστημονική φαντασία που εμπλέκεται στον κόσμο των ονείρων με ένα τρόπο οργιαστικού πανικού,φαντασμάτων,ειδώλων,εικονικής πραγματικότητας, τεχνητών ανασυνθέσεων και απομιμήσεις πρωτόγνωρων μορφών απο άλλες διαστάσεις χωροχρόνου που κατοικούν στην ίδια διάσταση με τους κατοίκους της "πολιτείας", με αποτέλεσμα,όλα τα απίστευτα κατακτούν την ανθρώπινη λογική.
Χόφμαν,είναι να βρει το αντίδοτο σε αυτόν τον ιό.Να επαναφέρει το κοινωνικό οικοδόμημα της πόλης του σε απόλυτη συμμετρία με την τάξη και τη ζωή.Βοηθός του υπουργού είναι ο κυνικός και σκληρά ρεαλιστής Ντεζιντέριο.
Ο Ντεζιντέριο ως νεαρός ζούσε στην πολιτεία αδιαφορώντας για τα πάντα,όταν ο διαβολικός Χόφμαν τη γέμισε χιμαιρικά είδωλα και τρέλανε τους πάντες.
I prefer to let myself go freestyle and underline some of the sparkles of metaphor and wit, the particularly beautiful turns of phrase that first attracted me to Carter's prose, leaving the plot details and the philosophical implications aside in favor of obscure desires, fanciful associations and grotesque encounters.The journey starts in an obscure Latin American city that for a first impression and style of presentation reminded me strongly of "Invisible Cities" by Italo Calvino, another poet who likes to experiment with literary structures: Consider the nature of a city.
"The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman" ("TIDM") is a picaresque metaphysical thriller that is both intellectually stimulating and hugely enjoyable.To the extent that it's philosophical, there's a risk that it might read like lecture notes.
Thus, the forces of evil seem to be associated with Hegel and Marx, even though they (the Doctor and Mendoza) advocate, not the rule of reason, but the rule of unreason, the liberation of desire and passion.
...for now all changes would henceforth be, as they had been before, absolutely predictable. My ongoing class of philosophy hindered as much as helped my reception of this, for I am as familiar with Big Name's rhapsodizing on freedom and reality and metaphysical stuff as I am sick of their standardized tools of female objectification and other exotification. I will likely reread this further on so as to ensure as careful attention to throughout as, in this initial encounter, only came forward i
Lorde illustrated this better with her insistence on sensuality, a self that draws strength from its connections and derives meaning from holistic interweaving, avoiding completely the splintered categories of "work", "play", all the patriarchally ordained sunderings of pain and pleasure as founded on the Male.
Therefore, every minute of the day, they were all, male and female alike, engrossed in weaving and embrodiering the rich fabric of the very world they lived in and, like so many Penelopes, their work was never finished.And now I understood they were not so much weaving a fabric of ritual with which to cover themselves but using the tools of ritual to shore up the very walls of the world.
A crazy quest book, the narrator is sent on a quest to defeat the fiendish Doctor Hoffman whose peculiar desire machines are sapping the life from the entire country.Rather like Oblomov this is a circular novel with the narrator returning to the starting point.
In which case desire is infernal and mechanical, a sticky hamster wheel.In a way it is unsatisfying, a picaresque novel with explicit sex visited upon the narrator by Centaurs and a team of acrobats(view spoiler)[ don't ask if you don't want to know (hide spoiler)] among others.
If you find this book sexy, there is something seriously wrong with you.This book reminded me of Burroughs's  Junky or Cohen's  Beautiful Losers, in that it is sexually explicit in a fantastical and determinedly grotesque and cruel way.
I get the feeling that writers like Carter, Burroughs, and Cohen are trying very hard to break through some kind of social boundary that just keeps receding in front of them, so they work themselves up into a froth getting more and more intensely grotesque and cruel in an attempt to shock.
Reading various of Carter's stories, essays, and novels since being dazzled by the visceral/conceptual density of The Passion of New Eve last fall, I'd enjoyed everything, but begun to despair of anything being so simultaneously compelling, fantastical, and symbolically loaded again.
(a week passes, wherein I read the other six chapters of the eight)On other hand, where The Passion gleefully inverts and muddles many of its gender archetypes to break down assumptions and wreak havoc with the power structures that Carter critiquing, here, the archetypes are recomposed somewhat more straightforwardly (though often weirdly and beautifully, and always cynically).
Във всяка глава героят Дезидерио попада на ново място със странни обитатели: градът, превърнал се във военна зона, в която избуява тоталитарен режим, с оправданието, че това единственият начин да се запази някаква стабилност при атаките на ирационалното; потънало в сън и лепкави тайни, провинциално градче; затворено в ритуалите си и консервирано във времето индианско племе; пътуващ панаир, пълен с хора-аномалии; мистериозен литовски граф, с желязна воля, която пречупва и моделира реалността като пластилин; бордей, чиито жрици са пригодни да удовлетворят единствено и само най-нечовешките страсти; сурови пирати, които боготворят стомана; африканско племе канибали, с благи характери; митично племе кентаври, обитаващо свят на ръба на възможното време.Стегнато, ясно и детайлно - така пише Картър, макар „научните” и теоретични моменти в романа й понякога да затрудняват.
The narrator-hero of the story is Desiderio, secretary to the Minister of Determination.
The Minister eventually dispatches Desiderio to the countryside as a covert agent tasked with following up a lead on the Doctor.
In following the current of his desires he comes close to death on a number of occasions.
Eventually he falls in with a curious pair of travelers who will lead him to his destiny.
For me, this book fulfilled all of the promise I found in Heroes and Villains that didn't quite come to fruition.
Not quite a 5-star book, but close.
"DESEJO LOGO EXISTO""Tudo no mundo é mero acessório irrelevante de determinadas coisas simples. A derradeira simplicidade é o Amor. Ou seja, o Desejo. Que é gerado por quatro pernas na cama."Para quem:- é intolerante a descrições de violência;- tem pouco sentido de humor;- é puritano;- não consegue abstrair-se da realidade e mergulhar num mundo completamente louco e surreal;este livro será um Inferno.Para os outros, será um Paraíso."as aberrações mais monstruosas estão condenadas a florescer em solo desinfectado da imaginação."
If you are a fan of fantastic (i.e. surreal, fabulist), transgressive literature (think Lautreamont's "Maldoror," a work duly referenced here), this is a must-read.
Though my copy is missing the final pages (!), I was bowled over by the first 216 I read.
Opening with quotations from Robert Desnos and Alfred Jarry, the work is very much influenced by Surrealism.
(Says Doctor Hoffman: "By the liberation of the unconscious we shall, of course, liberate man".) I'd normally write a longer, more in-depth review, but I'm still digesting what I've read.
Ревюто е публикувано за пръв път в онлайн списание "ShadowDance".Адските машини за желания на доктор Хофман на Анджела Картър най-вероятно ще бъде една от най-добрите книги на родния пазар за тази година.
Картър е сред най-значимите писатели на английски език за миналия век, а тази нейна творба е смятана за един от завършените образци на сюреализма и постмодерната литература.
And I don't mean simply that she illustrates such theory, but that the book itself reads like theory at several points.However, her prose never ceases to amaze, of course.
The one issue I had with this book (and often have with Carter) is that her intellectual stance maintains an undercurrent of detachment between reader and text.
As I note in the little review option, I suggest you read this one if you love Carter, and/or if you love theory--particularly those pertaining to performativity, the processes of desire, the mirror image and Lacan's ideological imaginary/the Real, and semiotic theory.
these two neighbor kids came out of their little scooters and got permission to go to the top of the block and then down to the bottom from their guardian.they were gone for about 10 seconds and came racing back saying "brenda, brenda, guess what the sign says up the block?" and in unison they said "beware of dog" looked at each other and and laughed about talking in unison.
unless you got javon, brenda, the little kid and a dead earthworm to help you through the last few pages i do not recommend reading this book.and, seriously, no one has javon and brenda like i do.
It seems some editor thought War of Dreams is a better title for the Americas than The INFERNAL DESIRE MACHINES OF DOCTOR HOFFMAN which is the UK title...stupid editor!!
The science is not developed in here except in a strange passing intresting creation, reminding me of Poe or Shelly, but the characters are the main menu on this wonderful book.Protagonist Desiderio goes from hunting Dr. Hoffman with his boss the important 'Minister' via clues, this madness must be stopped by any means.
It rallies the thoughts in directions I never thought possible with the endless acquisitions of more and more dementia as plot/anti-reality development.This hidden gem of a book deep in dead trees I had never heard of.
Relentless, bizarre image after bizarre image, sandwiched between descriptions of violent sexual acts, sprinkled with beauty and black humor. The writing was a heady combination of the formal and baroque. Truly unbelievable that such a variety of hideousness could be packed into so little space. Five stars for sheer audacity.
Infernal Desire Machines may seem a confusing patch-work of stories but in its picaresque postmodern pastiche, Carter weaves an intricate, many-layered web of surrealism and magical realism like nobody else.
The novel itself - being picaresque - seems aimless, absurd and grotesque but therein lies another component that is so distinctively Carter but can be off-putting: as beautiful as the writing is, there are some ugly truths revealed through the pages, and terrible things do happen, often, under the false impression of beauty.
But unlike other novels written under the influence of drugs, Infernal Desire Machines defies the contemporary idea that writing can either be fun or smart.
Structurally, it was like a demented picaresque novel, though narratively, you just couldn't tell what would happen next.
All I know is, the whole thing is so intricately woven and exquisite in its stylistic beauty and creative wit (in the 18th century meaning of the word) that I just HAD to give it 5 stars, even against my will to some extent, which is a first for me (though I actually did the same with The Dispossessed).
But what I will do, is tell you - GO READ THIS BOOK!
Angela Carter's prose is like ice water tinkling over a crystal stream - it is sharp and enervating and makes you question everything you thought you ever knew about humanity.There is so much going on in this book - at face value it is a series of picaresque incidents which lead the hero, Desiderio "The Desired One", a man of lowly social status to save society from Dr Hoffman's infernal desire making machines.
Of course, the machines only produce what men desire themselves - and they have some very strange desires - which almost leads to the annihiliation of the "city" from which Desiderio emerges.
Carter is a wicked, wanton wordsmith; a cerebral chanteuse of the silent opera that is a novel.It is bitterly difficult to find a decent copy of this book (in the US, at least).
The fuzzy, fading print of the edition pictured may thwart all but the most devoted readers.
But if you're of the party that considers the brain the most potent love organ, if constant mutations of setting and style intrigue you, if vivid, obscenely fetishistic vocabulary whets your whistle, do what you can to net this glittering beauty.
ATTN: Haruki MurakamiRead The Infernal Desire Machines of Doctor Hoffman. Take notes. Learn from it. That is how surreality is done.What a brilliant book. One of the best I've read. HIGHLY recommended to everyone who loves great prose and playing with the laws of reality.
somehow lost the original review- read this many years if not decades ago. original edition title in uk was 'war of dreams', which is exactly what this is about. if you have vivid, powerful, transgressive dreams. i was blown away.
Sexual desire, or "eroto-energy," as she calls it, is a big theme throughout the tale, and while at times it feels heavy and disturbing, it still by all means works.The way Carter bends time is fantastic.
It pulls us into Desiderio's world of unreality and unwoven time, and left me sympathetic when he ultimately made his choices.While much of this novel is brilliantly constructed, and wonderfully theoretical, the use of metaphor and simile was, in my opinion, very heavy, and the intertextual references were enough to alienate me at times.
(I think that is the real purpose of OKCupid btw.) It sounded sexy.
Lately I'm given to think about literature as a form of dating, in which both reader and book have special needs and an agenda and are hoping to discover a blissful commonality.
And simultaneously I'm given to think of dating as as process of browsing the first chapter of a person, trying to decide if you'd read the whole thing.
(Though the real difference is that the real Angela Carter doesn't give a fuck about me or what I think, and power to her.)I kept trying to like it.
Furthermore, some scientists also speculate that miniscule time dimensions may be folded into the spatial fabric, potentially directing time's flow not only backward but also toward unimaginable velocities, orientations, shapes.The Elegant Universe came to mind while I was tripping through IDM.
It focuses on a character named Desiderio and depicts both his sexual obsession with the shape-shifting Albertina and his adventures in a world where time and space have become mutable.Desiderio is instructed to assassinate the diabolical Dr. Hoffman, who has launched a “Reality War.” Doc intends to transform the world into a totalitarian system of actualized desire.
Аз имах проблем с ревютата, които четях предварително - от нито едно от тях не ми стана ясно за какво по дяволите е тази книга.Докато я преглеждах за втори път се опитвах да извадя есенцията, която да разказва накратко случващото се в тези близо 300 страници.Ключовата дума е "желание".
Имаме главен герой, който се определя като "безразличен".
Ховман е антагонистът, защото със своята научно-фантастична технология "разлага" реалността с добрите намерения да освободи човечеството от неговите капани.
Стига се до сбъсък между протагониста и антагонистът и след този сблъсък има експлозия от изводи свръзани с ключовата дума на романа.
This book is rich with reference to his characters and biography, to the point where I'm not sure why Carter chopped the second "N" off his name because when you're working so deliberately from that source you might as well give the direct reference proper spelling.This is such a 70s surrealist novel--if someone asked me what 70s surrealism looked like in its good and bad parts, I would hand them this.
The divides between the rational and irrational would've delighted Hoffmann, and the idea that reality might not be so stable definitely got into my head and my dreams afterwards.
Carter has created a world reflective of our own where the machines of Doctor Hoffman constantly create and show what we want and desire without it actually being real (sound familiar).
Thrown into this is is the very real Desiderio who is unaffected by the illusions created by the machines don't effect him, instead he is tortured by his love and desire for Albertina (the Doctor's daughter no less).
As the machines take over the city is placed into emergency status and Desiderio finds himself battling Doctor Hoffman and the machines, going on the run with Albertina before facing the choice between his desired illusion or harsh reality.
I was both excited and terrified to read this book - I love subversive literature, but I'm not fond of reading about sexual assaults.
I knew going in, from others who have read her work, that rape was a common occurrence in her books, so I simply braced myself.
It wasn't as bad as I thought, because the surreality of the book lessened the visceral brutality of the assaults.
I was disappointed with the ending but also amused with it, simply because Desiderio agrees that the climax is pretty anti-climatic.
I doubt I'd read the book again, but it was a good intro to Carter's work, I suppose.
I was recommended this after asking for something along the lines of Mervyn Peake's "Gormenghast", only written by a woman.
And while I don't think this was an accurate comparison on the part of the employee, I'm glad he made the recommendation.This is a strange book.
The plot involves a dream-making machine that is changing the fabric of reality, and a young man who ends up pursuing the elusive man who is behind it.
What makes it weird is Carter's predilection for symbolism and strange sexual situations and dense prose.
I recommend this to anyone who is looking for more female writers and/or something different and fantastic.
