https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85925.Lenin_and_Philosophy_and_Other_Essays
I love this guy. Hard to think of any piece of writing thats influenced the way I think about the world more than "Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses". When I read Althusser, I have a real sense of interacting with someone I really understand. Given that he was a pathologically self-doubting psycho who died in a mental ward, I'm not sure thats a good sign.
much of interest here, but most people read it for the very famous essay on ideological state apparatuses, which, of course, if one has not read it, one must be a philistine or a barbarian or a fascist or something.One of the all-time great re-urgings of marxism, up there with Gramsci, Adorno & Horkheimer, Voloshinov.
I was in London in September 2011 when the rioting occurred. I was staying in Dalston just south of Tottenham where the riots started. Three nights of mayhem ensued, lives were tragically lost and innocent people suffered. But what shocked me most was the style and level of reporting. It was perfectly understandable for those whose livelihood or lives were put at risk to speak of “feral youth”; however the way the media gleefully latched on to this language suggested an inability, or an unwilli
So it’s easier to see ideology at work in a culture that is not our own: consider the feudal model where subjects are indoctrinated into believing the hegemony of “The Divine Right of Kings”; convinced of this, the peasantry will not rise against the master.
I don’t know if these thinkers are right, but they have spent their lives developing ideas which seem very powerful and I would expect a responsible and adult media to at least consider these ways of seeing.
Like in For Marx, Althusser begins all his essays the same way: "I'm only going to a sketch some provisional theses; this is not to be taken as a definite position." From there he continues to lay out more hypotheticals, each of which is in need of further exploration "later." Therefore, he acts as his own scapegoat by never sticking to a position, he's always working provisionally, and thus always capable of rejecting what he said, as soon as it's pointed out as untenable, or ridiculous.
The general ideological structure of the ISA makes people aware of their roles as subject in such a way that they continue to reproduce social relations under capitalism.There's more to be said and the essay isn't too long (40 pages).
It is my contention that Marxism today is but another Ideological State Apparatus (ISA) that explains and (therefore) controls suffering.
The ISA's of our author are but another way to theoretically come to terms with the varied ramifications of this inescapable fact in ever-changing circumstances.And certainly the situation has changed!
And it also suggests that in the decades (perhaps centuries) long process of globalization the theory of ISA's will find much more to explain...Postmodern nihilism, ultimately, is the result of the failure of the socialist revolutionary project to overcome capitalism.
It was the ceaseless movement of capital, not theory, that destroyed Ireton's beloved landowners.
When it comes to writing essays, the two people who have influenced my ability to ask and frame questions, and to really inquire into a text, are two writers who are often accused of obscurity: Althusser and Lacan.
Lenin and Philosophy is largely a piece of Lenin hagiography, and although I have tremendous sympathy for Karl Marx and would honestly probably join the Communist party if it had any real political shot in the US, (it doesn't at all despite what the bullshit mongers will have you believe about socialism and dirty left and Bernie Sanders), I have absolutely no desire to begin looking at Saint Lenin instead of Vladimir Lenin.
The essay “Ideology and the State,” however is phenomenal, and came close to influencing me to giving this five stars.
At the time I hadn’t the ability to appreciate how brilliant an essay this is.
The way that Althusser breaks the State down into the (Repressive) State Apparatus, State Power, and the Ideological State Apparatus provides a means for scrutinizing how political influence is cultivated within the confines of a government/organization.
While I do not agree with Althusser’s claim that ideology has no history, this essay has relevance to anyone concerned with political theory, activism, and education.
The ISA article is much tougher to grasp, I think understanding the topology of society (base/superstructure) and the determination-in-the-last-instance is a key part of understanding it, but i have struggle to understand either :D Interpellation is also now a textbook Marxist piece of jargon and I'm probably mistaken here (because I think I read it, but can't remember) but I'm unsure if he clearly articulates what he means by interpellation beyond its the process of becoming a subject of ideology (i think) and giving examples of being "hailed".
lol all the reviews are basically only for the ideology essay, which is obviously a classic must-read, but honestly the verso 'on ideology' edition has all of that plus the freud/lacan ones as well. i think the only thing added here that is of substantial use is althusser's preface to capital, which is also worth reading -- my edition didn't even have jameson's introduction, natch. the actual stuff on lenin and philosophy is amiable but would need more development for underqualified me to truly get at what arguments it wants to build.
Not to mention prisons, etc., all of this made the task of theorizing these other "fields" of struggle politically urgent.Along these lines, Althusser lays out the role of "ideological apparatuses" in terms of reproducing the class structure of society.
This classic analysis is still incisive and immediately relevant to the work of radical educators, as well as, with adaptation, prison activists, social workers, and all of us who want to understand and challenge class power in the institutions in which we work.My question is this: it is all well and good to critique, but what is Althusser's positive program?
This book - a short book of Althusser's essays - is essential mainly because it contains Althusser's essay on ideology, easily worth the price of the book.
In that essay Althusser redefines ideology - there was always something simple about it, as if the truth of our lifeworld were right behind some silly bourgeois veil; he emphasizes the materiality of ideology, how the Real of ideology is nothing but the fact that it is dependent on capitalism and its needs.
In that short essay Althusser is contained all of Foucault's "Discipline and Punish," too - it is a major accomplishment.
While not particularly an esay read, this collection of essays is crucial for understanding the transitions from a Marxian-structuralism to post-Marxism and post-Structuralism.
Foucault's development out of his teacher's thought can also be traced from this by careful reading, but it it is not without controversy even amongst both traditional Marxists and Maoist figures.
Furthermore, it is not entirely clear if Althusser things the ideology and the Ideological State Apparatus is truly presenting itself as transhistorical or is somehow transhistorical.
Ranceire's critiques of Althusser tendency to a total answer are also pretty apparent in the book.
This book brings together classic writings by a great thinker.
For me, Althusser's structural take on ideology, bringing what he calls an ideological state apparatus together with a description something like Freud's unconscious, is a truly competing insight.
Ideology, for him, is not a matter of decision so much as an immanence.
It weirdly foreshadows what Charles Taylor has more recently called the Immanent Frame, but perhaps more compellingly pushes back toward Spinoza.
In any case, and analyses will certainly differ, these are thoughts worth contending and I thank Althusser for thinking and articulating them so well.
As the founder of anti-humanist and structuralist Marxism and the intellectual who defined "ideology" as we know it today, Althusser was perhaps the most important Marxist theorist in the second half of the 20th century and discourses everywhere from feminist theory, postcolonial theory, and eco-criticism are heavily indebted to him.
Since everyone and their Jocastas here seem to (understandably) only want to comment on his most famous work, "Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses," I'm going to explore the notion of anti-humanism Althusser develops throughout the other texts in this collection and explain their significance for epistemology and Marxism.
Peeps seem only to read that one essay in here.
The rest of the book is worth reading too, imagine that!
And that one essay everyone seems exclusively to read makes far more sense, emerges as far more trenchant, in light of the author's startlingly lucid engagement with Lenin's polemic against Mach and Gorky.
Seeing how Lenin proves, under rigorous structural analysis, to know, for necessary reasons, simultaneously far less and far more than even he himself realized, makes it far more difficult forcasual readers to imagine that everyone is an interpelated subject of ideology but themselves.
Necessary read for everyone in the social sciences/humanities; some essays were unnecessary though ("Lenin on Philosophy" itself is insightful, though it leaves many questions in the air). However, "State and Ideology" is perhaps the best of all, and there certainly is a sense on where Foucault derived his theory of "discourse" from. It is also a spit in the face to orthodox Marxists who still use Euro-centric, bourgeois modes of analysis on society.
I disagree with the structural, "scientific" Marxism that Althusser pursues, but some of his observations-- especially those on the formation, dissemination, and cementation of ideologies-- ring true, and help to explain some of the fulsome phenomena that accompany capitalist society. While I strongly disagree with orthodox Marxism, it's still interesting, radical, and thought-provoking.
I only read the most famous essay, Ideology and Ideological State Apparatuses. I have more than a little affection for Althusser now because amidst all the philosophy I have come to read for my thesis, I can recognise the human writing the text: he's readable, even a little cheeky.
One of the most influential Marxists since Marx, but not as popular as his number one student--Foucault. Don't read him though, unless you want to always be second guessing what you think, thought, might consider, as possibly being an internalized manifestation of the state's ideology.
5 stars for "Ideology and the State," the rest is pretty meh. mostly just althusser droning on about how 'scientific' the things he likes are. as though science were something to which theory should aspire.
The overarching concept of "ideology as having no history" strikes me as idealist and metaphysical.
The founder of "philosophy must be political- serving the proletariat."
It's all about Ideology and Ideological State Apparatus (Notes Towards an Investigation). And Preface to Capital Volume One is also pretty good. But, damn! that first one though.
lol i love althusser so much
While some of Althusser's structuralist ideas may have lost some of their resonance, his essay on ideology Is still very thought-provoking and influential.
One of my favorite philosophical works; an excellent Marxist take on ideology and its subtle influence on our lives.
I do recommend this philosophical essays for anyone interested on philosophy! Quite a great logical arguments and insights...
agak bingung bacanya...mohon pencerahan
«لنین و فلسفه» یِ لوئی آلتوسر را زمانی (پیشدانشگاهی) خاندم که نه آلتوسر را میشناختم، نه مترجم و شاگرداش، جواد طباطبایی را!
«لنین و فلسفه» یِ لوئی آلتوسر را زمانی (پیش‌دانشگاهی) خاندم که نه آلتوسر را می‌شناختم، نه مترجم و شاگرداش، جواد طباطبایی را!
A sheer tour de force. The essay on ideology literally made me cry. And a portion of good old orthodoxy in the beginning is stimulating in its lexical obsoleteness - 'a grandmother's wisdom'
