https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2367470.Raggedy_Ann_Stories
Take a peek for yourself here: http://www.gutenberg.org/files/18190/...We meet Raggedy Ann when little Marcella is playing at her Grandmother's house and discovers the doll in a barrel in a dark corner up in the attic.
I liked animal toys better myself, so I was never jealous of how many dolls this little girl had and now as an adult all I can say is Why So Many?!Anyway, each short chapter relates a different adventure that Raggedy Ann has, because of course she and the other dolls all come to life when no one is around.
Raggedy Ann falls somewhere in the middle of that spectrum, I think.I mean, let's get this out of the way: Raggedy's mistress, Marcella, is a spoiled little upper-class white girl, complete with a stereotype of a black servant called Dinah.
Sigh.)Speaking of realism: One thing I found particularly interesting was the way Raggedy Ann acts in most of the stories.
Somehow it gives me a better sense of the toys needing their mistress (and the other humans) than all the "Ohmygod Andy might get rid of us!" freakouts in the Toy Story movies.
I'm way too old for these stories, but they're a classic and a nostalgic testament to childhood and friendship. I loved them all when I was a kid.
This book is about Raggedy Ann and some other unmemorable dolls hanging out in a little girl's nursery.
The other involves a black maid, Dinah, who accidentally damages Raggedy Ann by laundering her with the clothes and running her through the mangle.
The story is also made awkward in that at the end Marcela apologizes to her toy for throwing her carelessly so that she landed in the laundry, while no apology is made to Dinah for yelling at her and snatching Raggedy Ann away from her.
You do get to know them as you go along but a role-call at the start would have been nice so here you go.Raggedy Ann - Female, cheap stitched doll.Four Penny Dolls - Female, small dolls.Indian Doll - Male, given his tracking skills i'm assuming indian as in Native American.French Doll - Female.Uncle Clem - Male, scotish doll complete with kilt.Tin Soldier - Male, made of tin as the name suggests.Dutch Doll - Male, Dutch dolls are usually wooden.
While its made clear the dolls feel no pain, its still a little unsettling when they get damaged, such as "(view spoiler)[ Raggedy Ann..
I also like how Raggedy Ann's gentleness with those who are rough with her ends up winning over friends.My 10 year old is probably too old for it, but she is patiently gentle with her sisters.
I have now read it with all three girls when they were 4 - 5.I like what the author Johnny Gruelle's granddaughter says of his works, "His books contained nothing to cause fright, glorify mischief, excuse malice, or condone cruelty."Now I'll have to dig out some wooden puzzles that we have with some of these illustrations on it.
I love Raggedy Ann. She is active, intelligent, and warm-hearted.I put up an illustrated version of the book on Amazon Kindle. I wanted it to be something parents will give to their children, so I edited out the racism.http://www.amazon.com/Raggedy-Stories...
Read aloud to J. She loved it. When we finished the last story, she sighed, "That was beautiful." Pretty cute. :)
These stories captivated our two little girls so the author must have done something right with respect to his target audience :)
((((Adorable))))This is so cute and my son liked it, too.
It has stood the test of time well.(With the exceptions of Dinah.
We read the free kindle version, so there were no illustrations.
I just looked at Project Gutenberg's illustrations and skimmed through the pictures.)I definitely noticed strong influences on "Toy Story." There are lots of similarities.
Raggedy is a leader like Woody.
She gets lost.
And so on.Also noticed influence on Build a Bear.
Hmmmm....just where did they get the idea for the heart inside the animal????
Could it be Raggedy?Also have to wonder if this book is the first marketing ploy.
What a precious book. I had a Raggedy Ann doll as a child but never read the stories. This series of short stories allowed my soon to be five year old son and I connect at night in a new way. He would grab his Raggedy Ann doll and we would settle down on his bed to read. The stories are long enough to have depth but short enough to keep his attention most nights. There are lessons in almost every story and you always hear the message of being happy no matter what. Raggedy' happiness drew everyone to her.
I loved reading these stories again! I borrowed this book from a friend who purchased it for her 6 yr old daughter. I remember reading these stories and getting so wrapped up with my imagination as a little girl. I just had the same feeling!!! 25 yrs later!!! My favorite stories in this book: Raggedy Ann and The Kite -and- Raggedy Ann's Trip on the River. The author's message is very positive, "we are indeed happy and proud. For wherever one of the rag dolls goes there will go with it the love and happiness that you give to others."
I downloaded this book from gutenburg press and formatted it in Word, then took it to Office Depot to be bound. It has the original illustrations in it. My daughters have made a rag doll and love hearing the Raggedy Ann stories. They have started taking care of their dolls the same way Marcella takes care of hers. Great, sweet stories.
Few childhood memories are as special as mine of sitting down with my Raggedy Ann and serving her orange juice that morning I decide to read this book to her. She still wears the faint stain from our glorious time together.
Wow, so preachy! and also kinda racist.
A bit too saccharine sweet for me, but I imagine it'd be great if you're 6.
A favorite from my childhood. My grandmother gave it to me along with handmade dolls.
Gruelle also created the charming illustrations.The Raggedy Ann stories were inspired by a rag doll that Gruelle's grandmother made for his mother (according to the cover copy).
When the dolls get dirty, Marcella washes them herself without being told and hangs them up to dry--today, it seems parents are responsible for cleaning their children's toys.In the final story, a strange man comes to visit and borrows Raggedy Ann. He takes her apart to make a pattern, and then a group of women see copies, mass producing more Raggedy Ann's.
I grew up with Raggedy Ann dolls, so I really enjoyed the stories.
I liked the stories, but as an adult, I'm not sure if I would read it again to myself.
If I was reading to a child, this would be a go to book.
I like that it's not one long story.
It's broken out into small stories that do not have to be read in order.
I think having it broken out into smaller stories keeps a child's attention, which is what you want when reading.Author: Johnny GruellePublisher: Simon & Schuster Books for Young ReadersPublication Date: 1918
One of my favorites as a child. I still love it. :)
I've had this collection since I was a little girl. Reading it to my daughters was such a nostalgic, heartwarming experience.
Hmm. Two stars may be a bit harsh, but I went there because the final chapter is really nothing more than a sales pitch for Raggedy Ann dolls (which Gruelle somehow managed to patent and sold in conjunction with the book), said story being an account of somebody borrowing the doll in order to take her apart and use her to create patterns for creating a potentially infinite number of identical "sisters" for our eternally-smiling, candy-hearted heroine.
GENTLE PEEK INTO A VICTORIAN NURSERYThis is the first of the classic Raggedy Ann books, of which there are nine more.
This little book would not appeal to modern youngsters or belong in a classroom setting, but can be enjoyed one chapter at a time as a bedtime ritual for parent-child bonding and book appreciation.
Of special interest to children who actually own a raggedy doll.
His daughter's name is Marcella--also that of the little girl who owns so many dolls in her Victorian style nursery.
It might even inspire you to give Raggedy Ann to a special youngster, or dig out your old doll, or start your own collection.
Found this old book from my childhood and remembered that it was a little scary and creepy when Raggedy Ann is damaged in the river, and by birds and dogs and cats, and people.
On re-reading it, the story seems dated and the ending reveals the commercial tie-in between the book and the dolls of the same name.
I loved the doll more than the book when I was little.
Like most books aimed at girls of this period (1918) it encourages girls to be sweet and kind, clean and amiable, and careful with their things.
I could not believe how much my girls (ages 6 and 4) loved this book.
Every single time I read a chapter they practically begged me to keep reading.
The stories are *so* sweet and simple, that I didn't think it would hold my girls' interest--but they loved it!In each chapter, Raggedy Ann has an adventure or helps someone out.
:) The stories are engaging and short so it's a great book for a first read-aloud chapter book (perfect for my 4yr old).
We'll definitely continue reading more Raggedy Ann!
This one is good, but it's not what I remembered. Raggedy is a dear girl and I love the example she sets of being a leader and a nurturer. However, I got this book expecting to read all those great descriptions of the candy forest and lemonade fountains and they weren't there! I guess they're only in the The Camel with the Wrinkled Knees? Hmm. Too bad I bought Raggedy Andy Stories first.
Raggedy Ann has been my friend longer than almost anyone else. I still have my old dolly, wearing a pair of baby pajamas to keep her raggedy old arms and legs attached to her body. But her heart is still in there. I loved reading the stories, and I will never truly believe that my dollies didn't get up and play the minute I left the room.
So great. Everything I want in a read aloud. Didn't have to edit a word. Dolls come to life when humans aren't around. They are all nice to each other and talk about how good it feels to be nice. There are fairies and Santa (in the Andy stories) and kittens and a lovely little girl who loves her dollies. I never heard these stories as a kid. Never liked the dolls' look, but now I love them.
This was well read by the Librivox narrator but just didn't appeal to me. It was repetitive and fairly dull. It will probably appeal mostly to girls under 7 and anyone who grew up with these stories and listens for nostalgia. I did skip the chapter with the fairies. The sound effects were really annoying.
Currently reading with my daughters. I have always struggled with the Raggedy's because there isn't a cohesive universe. Characters drop in and out and sometimes get renamed. However, each individual short story by itself has some great Aesop morals that translate well for children.
