https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7235533-the-way-of-kings
There are four that you really need to know: the three protagonists (Shallan, Kaladin, and Dalinar) and Szeth-son-son-Vallano, who doesn't get nearly as much page time but is at least as important as any of the other three.Here's the rundown:Shallan is a young woman with more than a few secrets who, for less than honorable reasons, desperately needs to get apprenticed to Jasnah Kholin, a famous heretic and scholar.
You all but asked for what happened!""Does that make it right?"Victim blaming: addressed, debated, PUT IN ITS PLACE, and then later framed in the context of one of the themes of the book: justice.She is the kind of character that makes me think, I wanna be like her when I grow up.END JASNAH KHOLIN APPRECIATION SECTION.Now...
I got to read an ARC of the book and I really enjoyed it. Sanderson really knows how tell a story and create an interesting world....
ugh omg
Ok, so I actually cried during this book (it was a stressful day, but I'm usually not a weeper).
This book captures the epic grandiosity and scope that I remember as a kid reading Eddings and Feist and Jordan.
I've read most of Sanderson's books (save the Wheel of Time which NEED TO BE READ) but he has really outdone himself with this.
BIG FAN TO SAY THE LEAST!
If you like big epic fantasy you have to read this.
Basically, all elements required for a great story are here, told from multiple POV.Even though there’s multiple marvelous POV to be found here, each book in the series will focus more specifically on one main character's past; in The Way of Kings, we get to see Kaladin's.We get to see all his thoughts, life from the past to present, feelings and motivation behind his actions from this book.
Sanderson has created an epic world and journey for us to dive into and all we have to do to experience it is really simple, read the book and let this story lives inside you.
A three and a half star read."What?" Sanderson's fans say, "this is a classic!""What?" people who read my reviews say, "you gave the same rating to that mess of a zombie book!"Let me 'splain.No, there is too much.
I've read books that were as long (hello, The Stand: The Complete and Uncut Edition), and everyone has read series that were over a thousand pages.
The fans argue that it took the building in the first part to create the dynamic tension of the last, but I'd have to disagree.
So if you're the kind of reader that needs that distinction, don't give up, b/c, man alive, you will get it.The last 10%:Sanderson followed a strict formula for the last 10% of his book.
Rinse, wash, REPEAT.Part IV will leave you emotionally wrung-out (in a good way), and Part V will give your FEELS a chance to recover whilst blowing your mind (really, your mind should be in pieces by the time you finish).Having just finished yesterday afternoon, I'm surprised that I'm not still in some kind of stupor, but I've prevailed.
So, a buddy of mine has been trying to get me into Sanderson for some time (figuratively speaking, I should note...he has not, as of yet, physically tried to jam me inside the poor man, for which, I'm sure, Mr. Sanderson is quite grateful).
I started to think to myself, "Self, maybe Sanderson just isn't for you...I mean, you don't have to like EVERY epic fantasy author, you know." But I kept reading.
And then I started figuring out what the hell a spren was.
Unite the clans!" every time Dalinar had a flashback.
Buddy Read with Robin and the rest of BB&B! ❤  “In the end, all men die. How you lived will be far more important to the Almighty than what you accomplished.”  This was the best Brandon Sanderson book I’ve read. Since I’ve started reviewing books, everyone constantly talks about Mistborn, which don’t get me wrong, is an amazing series too, but this book blew the entire original trilogy out of the water. I truly believe in my whole heart that The Stormlight Archive series is the series that e
And because this story surrounds wars on many different fronts, it makes sense that these Highstorms also helped make some pretty powerful and unique weapon, armor, and even some companions:➽Shardblades - Magical weapons that are very rare and sought after.
Like, men in this world marry a lot of the time just to be able to have their wives read to them and write down things for them.
The discussion and talk of religion in this book is super well done, and I would have never guessed that Brandon Sanderson, a man that is very open with how much religion means to him, wrote the character of Jasnah.
Shallan's story wasn't as boring this time around.
Their parts are my favorites even though the whole book is awesome.
I loved how everything in the book came together.
Everyone's stories eventually collided into one end game and I loved it!
I loved Dalinar and his story.
I wasn't much into Shallan's story until it got closer to the end.
:)All of the characters were great, but Kaladin is my favorite.
The majority of the crew on Bridge Four were all awesome and I love how Kaladin brought them all together, the camaraderie was great.
The very concept of reading this book genuinely terrifies and haunts me. I am scared of anyone who read it. Who are you and how do you have so much power? I read one chapter, realize how many are left and black out for the next week.
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsSo finishing this novel was incredibly bittersweet.The Stormlight Archive is the last of Brandon Sanderson's High Fantasy works I have left to read before I am forced to confront The Great Waiting.However, I am glad I waited to read this series, as it seems like it's going to be one of Sanderson's largest & most clarifying contributions to the Cosmere universe.
I believe The Way of Kings would sacrifice vital framework, world building, & characterization were it much shorter.Perhaps the level of immersion present here is not for everyone, but for me, that's part of what makes Sanderson's work stand out in the genre.
When I was a kid, I was never able to get the best of those damned Magic Eye paintings. I would stare and stare until my eyes watered, but to no avail. All I see is an OK fantasy novel. Well, looking at The Way of Kings and its glittering, 4.58 rating is bringing back some painful childhood memories that I’ve tried really hard to repress. Because like those stupid paintings, I just can’t see what all the fuss is about. To be clear, I didn’t hate this book: I thought it was sort of O.K. But this
That would be one thing if the book was 300 pages, or if it threw us straight into the action, but a book this size where the action is limited had better be doing some grade-A world-building and I didn’t think Sanderson reached that level.3.
I haven’t read anything else by Sanderson, so I don’t know if this is just his style or if there was a failure in the editing process, but I found a lot of the dialogue in this book to be exhausting.
There are many great fantasy books out there; some have a compelling story to tell supplemented with great characters; some have awesome magic and epic battle scenes, and some come with an interesting world that was richly imagined and detailed.
In The Stormlight Archive, each book contains flashback chapters for a particular key character and The Way of Kings could be said to be Kaladin’s.
With her scholarly disposition towards natural history, Shallan collected sketches complete with annotations of her observations and some of these were beautifully illustrated in the book, transforming The Way of Kings into possibly the most beautiful fantasy volume I've ever laid my hands on and effectively bringing the world to life to the reader.
Kindle Daily Deal 01Nov18 for $2.99 at AmazonBuddy read/reread and 3rd read of this monster done. The thing I love the most about Way of Kings is that even though it is my 3rd read of the book I catch so many new things, remember things I've forgotten and still get just as caught up in the story. Still a 5 star read all the way. Be prepared for many many updates.On Sale Today here 5/23/16BUDDY READ/REREAD!!! April 2015, BECAUSE WE CANSince a few new people have been infected with the Sandersonit
The thing I love the most about Way of Kings is that even though it is my 3rd read of the book I catch so many new things, remember things I've forgotten and still get just as caught up in the story.
Steelheart and Legion are nothing like this book but highlight his imagination and ability to tell a great story.That said I enjoyed the time I spent in The Way of Kings and I look forward to continuing on with the series soon.
When you’re reading Way of Kings (Stormlight Archive #1), you’re never sure which details will be relevant later on.
Here’s a clue: even though it’s a monster of a book (1,007 pages) almost everything becomes relevant eventually.
Am I anxious to read the second book?
More like anxious for the third book.
In the past few months I’ve read both Way of Kings and Words of Radiance (Stormlight Archive #2) twice (review for Words of Radiance to come soon).
I’m ready for Oathbringer (Stormlight Archive #3)!
Oathbringer is reportedly 90% complete with a release date of 2017.
I’m ready!
SEPTEMBER 2017 UDATE: JUST AS INCREDIBLE AS THE FIRST FEW TIMES I READ IT!  The highly anticipated 2017 BB&B BR of the Stormlight Archives has finally arrived. Grab your books and get lost with us in the sheer magnificence.                                                                                      The best stories always stay with you  After you have finished the last page and closed the book, the stories and their characters live on in the libraries of your mind. Sometimes you are
After you have finished the last page and closed the book, the stories and their characters live on in the libraries of your mind.
Sometimes, they make it really, really hard to meet exciting new characters and explore strange new worlds.The Way of Kings is such a story.
Brandon has stated that each book in this ten book series will focus more on one of the characters than the rest, and The Way of Kings is Kaladin’s book with the sequel, Words of Radiance, being Shallan’s, and the next book to be written, Oathbreaker, being Dalinar's.
This book. Wow. I kinda don't even know what to write about this book. The scope of it, the detail, everything is just so... epic. And then I think about the fact that there are a proposed nine more books, and I just...   The EPICNESS. As I was reading this, I admit to being unable to see how this story, already ginormous all on its lonesome, could expand to a whopping 10 book series and do it well. Keep the pacing, the excitement, the world, the magic system, the awesomenes all consistent. Oh m
As I was reading this, I admit to being unable to see how this story, already ginormous all on its lonesome, could expand to a whopping 10 book series and do it well.
Religion plays a big part in the daily lives of the characters here, as it did in his Mistborn series as well.
I don't know anything about Mormonism, but I remember worrying as I was reading the Mistborn series how the religion in that story would be handled.
The characters in this book...
I’ve read a plethora of fantasy novels, but I don’t think I’ve ever come across a world more unique or skillfully woven than Roshar.
Sanderson gave us a cast of incredibly varied characters with believable inner turmoil and motivations.
Is there anything this man can’t do?I don’t want to get too into the character development present in this book, but I will say that, despite the strength of Sanderson’s world building, the characters are what made the story really come alive.
But I don’t know how to say anything more about The Way of Kings without giving something special away, and I want anyone who chooses to read it to be able to mine all of those treasures for themselves.
There were so many good things about this novel that I hope that by talking about just a few of them I can convince a few people to read it [Sept 2017 Update: this sentence might have been relevant 5 years ago when I wrote this review, but I think we can safely assume at this point most Sanderson fans have read and loved this book lol].One of my favorite elements of this book was the world building and overall atmosphere.
But the story is just that good and because of the slow pace I could remember what was going on, even if they mentioned something I read weeks ago.When I'm reading a book I usually like it when things are fast paced and stuff is happening all the time.
I ran through a lot of emotions with this one (especially with the mayor revelations) and it was glorious.Some of the charachters were less interesting than others (but probably an important piece of the huge puzzle so fingers crossed I'll start care for them more as they evolve), but Kaladin and Szeth (who I hope to see more of in the next book) were by far my favorites.
I will now proceed to make Dalinar an altar.Also, Kaladin must be protected at all costs.
Life before death. Strength before weakness. Journey before destination. Speak again the ancient oaths and return to men the Shards they once bore. The Knights Radiant must stand again.  Best.book.everWowowowowowow Kaladin, Syl, Shallan & Sveth <333PS. Kaladin is my brooding sulking baby who needs 1 million kisses, a box of chocolates and a warm sweater made from love & tears. I would die right now for Kaladin Stormblessed... then I would revive myself and wrap him in a tight blanke
Life before death.
Strength before weakness.
Journey before destination.
Speak again the ancient oaths and return to men the Shards they once bore.
The Knights Radiant must stand again.
Best.book.everWowowowowowow Kaladin, Syl, Shallan & Sveth <333PS.
Kaladin is my brooding sulking baby who needs 1 million kisses, a box of chocolates and a warm sweater made from love & tears.
I would die right now for Kaladin Stormblessed...
then I would revive myself and wrap him in a tight blanket & rock him to sleep, while stroking his beautiful scarred forehead & cooingIf this series wasn't created my life would be meaningless.
*** 4.65 ***A Buddy Read with my Fantasy Family @ BB&B! Because we love Sanderson!!! "...“Weakness can imitate strength if bound properly, just as cowardice can imitate heroism if given nowhere to flee.” ..." Once again, my tendency to read Epic Fantasy has lead me to a conundrum - how does one go about writing a satisfactory review of a book over 1000 pages long, bursting at the seams with characters and plot arcs??? I think it is almost impossible to do such creation a justice, and I know
In the case of this first book of what we expect to be a grand series, the path is unbelievably beautifully imagined and we are given the basic building blocks for a world full of different races, fantastic plant and animal life, and characters with complex personalities and ambiguous motivations.
In this volume we get to spend some time with a smart-moth young woman from the light-eyed nobility, Shallan, who has some nefarious reasons to want to apprentice to a royal Scholar and my favorite character so far, the atheist-and-proud-of-it Jasnah, sister to the King and a scholarly genius.
The novel is long and its pace is often slow, but that volume and time allow you, the reader, to get familiar with each of the main characters and it allows the author to let them grow organically, over long stretches, making them feel flawed, human, and very much alive.I have trouble discussing what makes The Way of Kings so good because the novel is so long and deals with so many things.
Mr Sanderson really needs to take a class on dialogue structuring and placement, also, he can't write a romantic scene to save his life.Nonetheless, this was epic fantasy at its most ambitious and perhaps a bit too ambitious because worldbuilding was on a massive scale.
Ecology, theology, mythology etcetera, which meant that info-dumping was inevitable.Undoubtedly, Sanderson is extremely talented but as with most people with genius intellect, he made the mistake of showing us just how much HE knows.
All that said, no one writes immersive fantasy like Sanderson and this is no exception.
Plot development is virtually non-existent, while character development is the main focus of the book.I should also mention my feelings about Kaladin.
I know that many of you really enjoy reading about Kaladin, and I have no problem with that, but his character and storyline just didn’t appeal to me at all.
From what I’ve read so far, female characters make up one of Brandon Sanderson’s great weaknesses.
Dalinar the Blackthorn, however, is probably the greatest character Sanderson has created so far.
The actions of Dalinar and Kaladin in the heat of battle, several brilliant plot twists and a nice, little epilogue that was probably the best single chapter in the whole book.
I was not ready to read this one because of its huge size but finally decided to read after being told by a friend that this is one of the BEST book in fantasy genre, a genre I absolutely love.
The best bridges are carried by slaves known as bridgemen.Story is told in three POVs with Kaladin and Dalinar being the leading ones.
His story is told in present and flashbacks from childhood telling us how he became a soldier when he wanted to be a surgeon, and why he is a slave now.
Reread Nov 2017 - Yup, still five stars.
:)---For the first, oh, 60-70% of the book, this was a 3 star book.
I loved the characters, but there wasn't much of a plot and that bugged me.
I knew it was setup for the rest of the 10 book series, but I wanted more.Well, the last 25% delivered.
The story went from good to great to OHMYGODDIDTHATJUSTHAPPEN awesome.
The characters went from great to badass.
And the stuff left hanging for book two was just enough to leave me begging for me.Way to go Sanderson, you might have rekindled my long-dead love of high/epic fantasy.
“Sometimes the prize is not worth the costs. The means by which we achieve victory are as important as the victory itself.”    REACTION AFTER READING THE BOOK   It took me forever to finish this (well, shorter than when I read The Final Empire), not because I didn’t like it, or because I was having a hard time delving into it. It's all me. This is a real case of "it-was-me-not-you" scenario. I FREAKIN' LOVED THIS BOOK! I'm going to echo what my good friend Petrik said about this book in his re
I'm going to echo what my good friend Petrik said about this book in his review, The Way of Kings is a masterpiece.
It would take a few days for some, weeks for most, and a couple of months, if you are someone like me who have attention deficiency problems.The Way of Kings is a book about people.
The Way of Kings, definitely, has the best set of characters I've ever read about.
The Way of Kings, the story was more focused on Kaladin (one of the best characters I've ever read!
