https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/45876.Psychotherapy_East_and_West
Thus, for Watts, "cosmic consciousness" or enlightenment is not liberation from the bounds of physical existence, nor does it confer psychic powers and reward in a heavenly hereafter; it simply restores the individual to a state of Reality, wherein his own identity is felt as inseparable from everything previously taken as "Other."What prompted me to re-read this book after having read it more than twenty years ago was a desire to review Watts's critique of Carl Jung's thought.
شعرت بالتوهان اثناء القراءة! لا أعلم ماذا كان يريد الكاتب أن يصبو إليه في منتصف الكتاب إلى الأخير؟ أين المقاربة التي وعد أن يصل إليها بين الفكر الشرقي والغربي في العلاج النفسي؟
I particularly enjoyed the last chapter, which read like an independent essay but brought out the ethical implications of the arguments of the book.While the book presupposes basic knowledge of Eastern philosophy and psychoanalysis and goes into quite some detail, I recommend the book to lay people, scholars and practitioners in both areas.
Two quotes: "Life is above all a spontaneous process, and, as we have seen, to command spontaneity, to say that one must live, is the basic contradiction imposing the double-bind on us all." "Ordinary language refers to life, but music is living.
But life itself is made to behave as ordinary language when it is lived for a purpose beyond itself, when the present serves the future, or when the body is exploited for the purposes of the soul.
Such a way of life is therefore "beside itself"-insane- and because it is being made to behave as language and words it becomes as empty as "mere words".
One of Alan Watts' more mediocre books, correlating Eastern philosophy of liberation with Western 70's-era psychology.
Its main premise is that both address the suffering caused by the "double-bind" of social conditioning, which is basically the demand that we follow a strict system of rules while also being genuine, an impossible contradiction of expectations.
This book is very old for such a new field as psychology, so it's limited to the theories of Freud, Jung, Carl Rogers, existentialism, and gestalt therapy.
There were a few explanations that I found extremely interesting and helpful, particularly the chapter, The Ways of Liberation, which explained nirvana and rebirth in such reasonable terms.
Life is not a problem to be solved. Loved the focus on social double binds and how a therapist, or zen master will essentially become a mirror for the student. What a marvelous author watts is.
what little of this book i was able to focus on was well-liked. the rest of it was cool too, i just didn't get it. not the authors fault.
We reach for personal identity, ego-gratification, external validation from society, forgiveness for sins we haven't committed or have been deluded into believing have any metaphysical significance.He articulates how psychotherapy, in the tradition of psychoanalysts like Sigmund Freud, Carl Jung, Erich Fromm, and Karen Horney, of all western endeavorers came closest to achieving what the Eastern ways of liberation can.
"The main resemblance between these Eastern ways of life and Western psychotherapy is in the concern of both with bringing about changes of consciousness, changes in our ways of feeling our own existence and our relation to human society and the natural world." The journey is inward, psychological.
In Watts's words, "the consistencies or regularities of nature are patterns that do occur, not patterns that must occur."Anyways Watts says that society is essentially a game we all play, and if you want to belong to society you must play the game, and "the first rule of the game is this game is serious, i.e. not a game."One thing that stuck with me is how man is a self-frustrating organism, "For example, one of our greatest assets for survival is our sense of time, our marvelously sensitive memory, which enables us to predict the future from the pattern of the past.
In some ways Watts is kind of refreshing and there are interesting insights, like that you're going to have to get into social commentary in psychotherapy.The second chapter is a mash up of physical theories, Wittgenstein and anthropology.
Watts' style of writing is a kind of challenge in every statement, a kind of interpretation of a philosophy that is at once hard to evaluate, and bold sounding.The liberation chapter could almost break the chapter up, because he goes on a long riff about reincarnation which is fairly interesting.
But after reading this book until the mid part, I learned that my suspicion was wrong.
Personally I thought this book gave me silver lining by summarizes all of my scientific and philosophic interests which scattered before.
After reading this book I learned that long before I thought about this problem-or, in fact, long before I was born - it turns out there was someone who already compiled these in one compact book.
So I think this book is answer for many philosophical problems, especially for one who linger between varies thoughts.
كتاب خيلي عالي بود و نكات بسيار عالي و بكري در آن مطرح شده بود كه خيلي از تناقضات را حل مي كند ولي ترجمه آن خيلي ثقيل بود و احتياج به صبر زيادي دارد تا از سر بالايي هاي آن رد شد اما من بدليل زمينه ها و تجارب شخصي خودم نظر نويسنده را خيلي خوب درك كردم در كل يكي از بهترين هايي بود كه خوانده امضمنا مترجم توضيحات خوبي را راجع مكاتب شرق و غرب در آخر كتاب اضافه كرده كه بعضي از آنها واقعا عالي مختصر و مفيد است
I have been lost recently and I have found myself in this book. Thank you Alan Watts for the perspective. It is a reminder of the most simple truth: that life is life, here and now, using copious amounts of dense research and specific examples and links to language, art, history, religion and politics to feed the intellectual and rational mind. So happy I randomly picked this book up off my grandfather's shelf.
I have read this book dozens of times. Watts speaks from the perspective of someone who gained enlightenment, in the Buddhist sense, and so he speaks very personally about what that means for those of us who are still clinging to our finite selves. His words and concepts help you to peel away some of the masks that cover and obscure the light of your Soul.
I read Watts' book in the late '60's. It planted seeds of thought that I continue to cultivate to this day. As a died in the wool Westerner, I continue to try (not always successfully) to integrate them. Westerners would all benefit from focusing more on acceptance and appreciation and less than on expectation and accumulation.
here is in my opinion all of his work all his books into one little book. from zen to tao from Christianity to Mahayana from judo to Vedanta . he explains in no uncertain terms the mis approach of the west to understand a individual in its dualistic way . its division of labor and specialization and compartmentalization of applied science to grasp what is the mind . highly recommended
Which of his books to recommend? Such a dilemma but I'll start with this one. He contrasts and compares the East's Buddhism with the West's psychotherapy. Each aims to change a person's concept of self in a particular way, and embodies a critique of the culture it's embedded in.
Very mild, easy reading, but it also makes you think. Plenty of ideas for thought-experiments, all of which are more than worth performing. It's not a book I can re-read easily because so much of it seems common-sense after the first round, but still a very worthwhile read.
This is terrific book that I have read several times in my life but it didn't really resonate as much as now. This is because I understand psychotherapy much differently after thirty years at it, and also have been learning about Buddhism and meditation. I recommend it to anyone.
With its initial release way back in 1961, Psychotherapy East and West by noted philosopher Alan Watts sought to examine the parallels between Western psychotherapy and Eastern philosophy.
I must say it has aged well despite both areas of his interest transforming greatly in the 50+ years since the book first hit the presses.Psychotherapy East and West focuses on the methods and objectives of both segments and how they converge and contrast with one other.
For the guru or master, it’s helping the adept see how samsara may come from trying to contort oneself to fit into society’s rules and identifying greatly with the ‘I’ at the centre of it all.Freud and Jung are the core individuals who Watt’s explores in this book (makes sense).
Excellent work of a geniusThis has to be one of Watts' most profound works. His ability to weave Eastern Philosophy into the more relatable Western psychology has opened me to a level of understanding and acceptance I never thought possible. This is not an easy read if you're new to his philosophy of unfamiliar with basic psychology,but if you have interest in either area, Watts will blow your mind with his simple, beautiful logic as he weaves liberation and mental sanity together.
A great book that will set your mind racing but also likely to perplex. It’s tough going at times and requires much contemplation. If you are brave enough to read it again and again, you will likely find much of the insight starts to sink in. For me, that insight crossed over with many other authors but I was particularly fascinated by the repeated doubt cast upon the works of Freud and Jung , which he refers to occasionally as ‘hocus pocus’ to the extent in which their theories function in therapy.
Watts' sparkling prose is the finger pointing at the moon of enlightenment, and while I'm super excited about that finger, it's also made me see the moon more clearly (if only for a few chapters) than I've ever seen it before. His explanation of the "double-bind" of ego-driven actions is perhaps the clearest and most succinct summary of this problem I've ever read.
I marvel at his ingenuity to play with words....some of the advice given for 'psychotherapist' is actually very practical and very lucid other than that it was a tough read i struggled at many sections......but the fun thing was reading some paragraphs and countering it .....thoughts v.s thought which in themselves are baseless ....LOLsome food for THOUGHT !! after reading this book.https://youtu.be/4k6lzEpkDVIhttps://youtu.be/CFtsHf1lVI4
An excellent survey of eastern ways of liberation and its relationship to modern psychotherapy. I always enjoy reading Watts and this book is right up there with his best. Highly recomended!
Very interesting and thought provoking
Alan Watts never fails to paint wonderfully with words exactly what you need to hear.
After reading this, it really makes me want to look more into zen.
Very cool and insightful book.
Detailed review at http://the-mouse-trap.com/2017/03/01/...
