https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/124922.Detective
Years and years ago, I read Hailey's Airport and then Hotel and then Wheels and then I forgot about him.
His special insight into the industry of his focus is now turned to the business of homicide.
And he does an excellent job.
Elroy Doil is hours away from the electric chair.
He was convicted of one double murder and suspected of many others.
He has requested to talk to Detective Malcolm Ainslie before he dies.
The book covers the past and the present of this horrible killing spree.
The only downside is that Hailey never writes sequels.
I'd like to read about Ainslie again…

What a disappointment. I had read all his other books in years past and thought all were great.... Saw this one on the library shelf and brought it home to read. Hailey seems to wonder around in this book telling multiple stories that don't hold together well. He rants at the Catholic church unconvincingly, in the middle of this book --- breaking the story up badly. One day I should read one of his others-again----Moneychangers or The Evening News so I don't finish his novels on this bad note.
One of those titles was Detective by Arthur Hailey.This is the story of a police detective named Malcolm Ainslie who lives and works in Florida.
It follows - roughly - the investigation that is launched when a death row inmate confesses to actually having committed a lot more murders.
The police had long suspected this, but they hadn't actually been able to hang the murders on Doil (that's the inmate).Oh, and did I mention that Ainslie is a former priest-turned-detective?This book takes you inside the heart and mind of a Florida detective.
It was probably a great read when it first came out in the 1990's, but I got to it almost 20 years too late. Great story, but it can't help seeming a little dated.
starts very promisingly.
the in depth analysis characteristic of a Hailey book , makes you feel like you're reading a non fiction.
but the book is too predictable .
initially it offers joy as a procedural.
But when you have a pretty straightforward story to tell you run with it and finish on a high .
but Hailey decides thrown in another mini case and give us so much time to think that the book is not fun any more.
pj murdering his ex and her bf I see what you did there xD (oj) toward the end the book really tested my patience .
This is the kind of book that you'd call "unputdownable". Fast-paced, wasting the least of tree pulp in describing a dog's ponytail or the sullen expression on the Gibbon's face in a zoo, the author takes you on a ride, letting you know more about Crime Scene Investigation(CSI) than any other author before. The author takes you high as the story unfurls, never letting you down or consider your time a waste. Crime, Duty, Law, Lust and Loneliness intertwine at various degrees in various stages of the plot, bringing another Best-Seller from one of the finest authors of our time.
This was an excellent novel, Arthur Hailey is a brilliant author, this is the only book of his that I read, but I intend to read more of his books if I see any that hold my interest, I thought this was a great cop story with great mystery and suspense. I picked this book up at a store that sells used books and I bought it and read in the summer of 2011, and it was probably the best book I read that Summer.
the best detective novel i have ever read.....read it for thrilling experience.....
It all begins when Sergeant Malcolm Ainslie of the Miami police homicide department is called away on an urgent mission to hear a confession of a criminal who has just few hours left to be electrocuted.Although, Elroy Doil 'Animal' is responsible for a series of grisly double murders including the Commissioner's and his wife's, but was found guilty for only two.When Ainslie was called by him, he couldn't miss the opportunity to hear his confession and close other cases too, though he had to miss his well-deserved family holiday.Let me tell you there's a big twist when Elroy confesses his crimes in prison which gives the case a totally new direction.
So now the detective takes a closer look at the murders and low and behold, he figures out that a former female colleague that he was personally involved with, who is the daughter of the couple, had them killed.
The detective concludes things satisfactorily, even though she is set on shooting him and is killed by another female detective in the process, and then gets the offer of his life.
When he takes the offer, he finds that it is from another woman that he is interested in.
The story takes it's time, and for someone like me, who prefers breakneck speed, it is a testament to Mr. Hailey's art, that I kept at it, allowing it to grow around me, get immersed in the characters, their pasts, the details (like the 'rectangular' conference table, wingnuts in the electrocution chamber), the moral complexities.
Mr Hailey has done a super job of researching the police department right down to its salaries and translating that to a day-to-day budget, almost.I guessed the perpetrator well on, but yet, was not disappointed at the revelation - clearly the revelation isn't the crux of the story - it's the characterisations.
Malcolm Ainsley is flawed, and there are hints that he will never learn, but it gives the character continuity.
Priest turned Detective, Malcolm Ainslie is asked by a prisoner on death row to meet him before his execution.
His final confession provokes Ainslie to investigate a further set of homicides, leading him to question the elite and even those closest to him.
You end up rooting for Ainslie, as you’re taken with him on his path to finding the truth behind a series of murders.
The first half is a bit too slow paced, and there’s a lot of information about religion, the Catholic Church and Ainslie’s background as a priest.
Could have cut a chunk out of this novel and still appreciated and understood the main story.
It is as light as a detective including serial murders can be.
The narration is focused on a former priest Malcolm Ainsley, who decided to change his career path.
The point is that the personality of Ainsley is ambiguous and he sees beyond the usual margins.
It clearly helps him to solve mind-boggling cases, but leaves him always restless.
I guess, the total count of murdered people in this book is about 27 people (including one suicide).
The murderers behave irrationally, and leave practically no evidence, except the most obvious ones.
I can't really remember when I read this the first time but my brother had found it laying somewhere in Seattle, like one of those books people just leave lying around for others to find.
I have read it before and I was still second guessing what I thought I remembered.
He is probably my lest favorite main character ever.
For some reason I usually do not like the main characters.
And usually if I don't like a character this much I will stop reading but there was enough else good about the book to offset that part.
This is a book that I grabbed while I was in the gift shop at the hospital. I needed to have something to read while my husband was there. The book was easy to read but the switching back and forth between the many story lines that kept me guessing. It was able to keep my interest and helped me through a difficult time. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves a complicated story line that keeps you guessing.
A really decent novel if not suffering a bit from "bloat" in some areas. No doubt, however, why Arthur Hailey was undisputed as one of America's best novelists in his day. This is a big, tough, entertaining story with plenty of twists and turns, plus a very good mystery at the heart of it. I enjoyed the book start to finish.
I read this book years ago when it first came out but decided to reread it when it was offered to me this week. I enjoyed it just as much the second time as the first. Great story. Great author. Winning combination.
Great story telling by the author..Completely gripping through out the reading. The minute detailing of technical, legal or other events are so well explained. The events are well connected and it brings wow and surprise. All the characters are well defined and we loved each roles.Lovely book.
This one of the best books I have read recently. It grabs the attention and keeps involving you in different types of cases constantly filled with mysteries and action. The book is read really fast and excites with each page. One of the best detective book I have ever read. :)
Haven't read him in a long time.
Very Arthur Hailey. Long on detail, told from multiple POV's. A great read.
Excellent read.
Always greatI have yet to meet a Hailey novel that did not keep me interested throughout. Hailey has the story teller's gift.
Far from his best work. A large portion of the book took place in flashbacks - might have been an experiment, but the result was disjointed and lacking the pace and urgency of his other work.
SuperIt is a good read. Worth to spend your time reading it. Reading this book again after many years but still find it interesting
simple story.
Interesting to read a story that takes place in Miami, & coconut grove too.
Several plots going
Page turner, edgy, nail biting, engrossing is how I would describe this one! The pace at which the story progresses is perfect. Unraveling of multiple layers is extremely chilling. It also gives insights about the department and the various laws and procedures.The only spoiler for me was the way Cynthia Ernst died. She died in a jiffy without much drama especially after a huge hype which was created around her crimes. It could have been more dramatic or complex.Absolutely readable. In fact a must read if suspense thriller is your thing!
