https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9650.Burmese_Days
Because it is a colonial society where the whites run everything and the native people, no matter what their status in the local community, have no overt power and can't even get into a club full of stupid men whose only attribute is that they are white, the ruling class.
I read the book very tongue in cheek because I also live in a colonial society (but I am either beyond the pale or have the right credentials depending on what side you are on, as I married into a local, black family.
If only he'd had the good sense to be born into an E.M. Forster novel instead of one by George Orwell, he might have had half a chance.Burmese Days, Orwell’s second book, draws on his own experiences as a police officer in imperial Burma in the 1920s.
The novel describes the experiences of John Flory, an English timber merchant living in a Burmese outpost.
One should live with the stream of life, not against it."Despite these serious themes, Burmese Days is still an engaging story.
The seven Europeans, who constitute the entire white population there, social center, is the club, all the British have one in Burma.
A very sad, lonely man, the biggest thing he hates, is himself, for his debauchery, drinking too much, native women he uses, living like the rest of the white slobs, believing himself a coward, for not speaking more against British rule.
This is Mr.Flory's last chance for salvation, can he overcome his weaknesses, his ugliness, his self hate, to win the love of this young , attractive woman, a dozen years his junior and make his life worth living ?
We need writers like him even more today, but I wonder if there is any scope for such a man especially in First World countries where one does not know who Big Brothers and Winstons are; maybe they have merged into one entity, making the world even more intriguing than it ever has been.'Burmese Days' shows us the man who is fighting injustice in whatsoever form it presents itself.
On one level, Flory's claims to righteousness are fundamentally problematic, after all, he works for the British Raj.The second time I read this novel, I was not looking for how one good man is fighting for the rights of the others (an admirable thing, though, but an ideal situation in human life does not produce them, there is no scope for them).
It is a tale from the waning days of British colonialism, when Burma was ruled from Delhi as a part of British India.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: ماه می سال 1985 میلادیعنوان: روزهای برمه؛ نویسنده: جورج (جرج) اورول؛ مترجم: مرتضی مدنی نژاد؛ تهران، آوا، 1363، در 416 ص؛عنوان: روزهای برمه؛ نویسنده: جورج (جرج) اورول؛ مترجم: پروین قائمی؛ تهران، کتاب آفرین، 1363، در 367 ص؛عنوان: روزهای برمه؛ مترجم: زهره روشنفکر؛ تهران، مجید، 1389، شابک: 9789644531088در 367 ص؛ چاپ سوم 1392؛ چاپ چهارم 1393؛عنوان: روزهای برمه؛ مترجم: آوینا ترنم؛ تهران، ماهابه، 1389، شابک: 9789644531088در 442 ص؛عنوان: روزهای برمه؛ مترجم: فرزانه پورفرزین؛ تبریز، اختر، 1393، شابک: 9789645174543در 416 ص؛نقل از متن: کلاغهای سبز را موقعی که زنده هستند کسی نمیتواند ببیند.
موقعی که کسی آنها را با تیر میزند اگر فورا کشته نشوند، خودشان را به درختی آویزان میکنند تا بمیرند، و این کار آنقدر طول میکشد تا شکارچی خسته شود و برود.
The book opens with the hatching of a rather diabolical plot so the suspicion of danger is confirmed and the tone of the story is set from the beginning.I was slightly disappointed that the descriptions of nature promised by this hillscape between jungle and river were so few but the scattering of houses on the map are far more significant than they look at first.
Or not.The promising strip of jungle on the upper edge of the map has a role to play in the story, as does the river, but too much of the book is concerned with the sayings and doings of the sahiblog, the little group of agents of the British Empire who gather in the club at Kyautada, and they are a particularly unpleasant group.
"The whole body of policemen, military and civil, about a hundred and fifty men in all, had attacked the crowd from the rear, armed only with sticks. They had been utterly engulfed. The crowd was so dense that it was like an enormous swarm of bees seething and rotating. Everywhere one could see policemen wedged helplessly among the hordes of Burmans, struggling furiously but uselessly, and too cramped even to use their sticks. Whole knots of men were tangled Laocoon-like in the folds of unrolle
It is interesting to note that the main distinction between these two great essays by Orwell, Shooting an Elephant and  A Hanging, and his novel,  Burmese Days, is length.
The exoticness of Burma had captivated Orwell, and it is rendered quite wonderfully in this his first novel."The sun circled low in the sky, and the nights and early mornings were bitterly cold, with white mists that poured through the valleys like the steam of enormous kettles.""There was no lawn, but instead a shrubbery of native trees and bushes--gold mohur trees like vast umbrellas of blood-red bloom, frangipanis with creamy, stalkless flowers, purple bougainvillea, scarlet hibiscus and the pink Chinese rose, bilious-green crotons, feathery fronds of tamarind.
Imagine sitting in a small, dark room with George Orwell sitting ten inches away from you shouting the words, "RACISM" and "IMPERIALISM" at you for two hours. That's what it's like reading this novel. Orwell wants to get his message across so strongly that he completely forgets that coherent plots and characters are essential in fiction. However I must say that Burmese Days is written very well (as with all of Orwell's works) and it has a disgustingly pessimistic ending (which is always a major bonus in my literate tastes).
Burmese Days is essentially about the pettiness and cruelty of colonial society.
The novel follows a set of characters but decides, eventually, to focus on John Flory, a timber merchant who is stuck in Burma (Myanmar nowadays) due to his lack of prospects elsewhere.
He hates the white colonial society, with its racism and arrogance, and he clearly admires the Burmese people and their ways.
What is absurd is that this white society in which the so-called scandal would be given any attention is composed of less than 10 white people.
Still, it lacks proper structure and character development.

Sketch-map of KyauktadaIntroductionA Note on the Text--Burmese Days
It's a fierce and articulate indictment of imperialism in general and of the mindset of the British Indian colonisers in particular - equal in passion to EM Forster’s A Passage to India, if rather less so in subtlety.Orwell’s main character is John Flory, a timber merchant.
At times detached and ironic, it is at other times – particularly in the first part of the novel – indistinguishable from Flory’s (and presumably Orwell’s) voice.
This is a novel which may particularly appeal to anyone who has had experience of living in a colonial society.
George’s fictionalised account of his time in Burma with our brave old lads in the Indian Imperial Police.
Flory is our antihero, desperately striving for decency and brotherhood and love in a moral backwater populated by the drunk whore-mongering Old Guard English and corrupt local blackmailers, rapists and tyrants (rolled into one here as U Po Kyin).
Caught in the middle are the unfortunate Burmese and Indians trapped in an easily manipulated honour system, ruled over with contempt by the institutionally racist English masters.
As Wayne Coyne and his Lips know well, with loving hands, evil will prevail.
George Orwell’s first novel, Burmese Days, is a damning look at British Imperialism and the effects of colonialism on both the British and the native populace.
In attempting to do two very different novels in one, much shorter novel - a searing critique of British colonialism and its effects, and a sweeping, complex romance - Orwell doesn’t accomplish either with any high degree of success.
But while Burmese Days possesses Orwell’s effortless high quality writing and piercing eye for human behaviour, it’s at times unfocused and underdeveloped in its themes and direction, both aspects that Orwell would go on to become much better at in later books.
George Orwell's first novel is a damning indictment of British Imperialism and the bigotry that allowed it to be in the first place.
It's wonderfully descriptive without being overly flowery and you really feel transported to that time.My main problem with the book is that it isn't damning enough.
It's entirely possible I'm judging the novel unfairly based on his later, more seminal, works but I often felt myself thinking 'oh, stop messing about, George; give the bastards BOTH barrels!A lesser issue was that I just couldn't see what Flory could possibly see in Elizabeth.
I mean, she was awful and it drove me up the wall that he couldn't see it.
At the same time, I don't believe that Orwell was exaggerating the awfulness of the people.
The book filled me with shame and disgust at the attitudes and moral bankruptcy of the supposedly superior white men and women.
Given their attitudes towards the people of Burma, it was hardly surprising that they also saw nothing wrong with going out and killing birds and animals for no good reason.
The only good thing about it was that the people of the village acquired some meat to eat.So for me, it was a powerful but deeply unpleasant read.
Burma Günleri'ne gelirsem bana -niye tam bilemiyorum ama- Boğulmamak İçin'i anımsattı.
Kitabın ana karakteri John Flory, İngiliz sömürgesi olan Burma'da görevli çok az sayıda "beyaz"dan biri.
Flory'i diğer "beyaz"lardan ayıran bir yön var, o da Burmalılara diğer İngilizler kadar kötü davranmaması.
Hatta bu diğer İngilizler olmasa Flory'nin onlarla gerçek birer dost olabilmesi bile mümkün.
Yine de yetiştiği, içinde yaşamaya devam ettiği ortam buna tam anlamıyla izin vermiyor tabii.
Oldukça yalnız bir adam Flory.
Örneğin Elizabeth tam anlamıyla sanattan, edebiyattan nefret eden biri, hatta oldukça sığ; oysa Flory'i ise yaşama bağlayanlar, edebiyat ve sanat.
สนุกดี นิยายจิกกัดเสียดสีระบอบอาณานิคมอังกฤษในพมา ตัวเอกเปนคนผิวขาวคนเดียวทังเรืองทีพอ "เขาใจ" และ "เหนใจ" ชนพืนเมืองคือชาวพมา แตกเปน anti-hero ไมใช "พระเอก" เพราะมีนิสัยเสียหลายอยาง โดยเฉพาะความขีขลาดตาขาว สันหลังยาว ฯลฯ ราวกับวาผูเขียนคือ จอรจ ออรเวล ระดมเอาแบบฉบับ (stereotypes) แยๆ ทังหมดของคนอังกฤษยุคลาอาณานิคมมารวมไวในนิยายเลมเดียว ซึงกอาจทำใหนิยายเรืองนีดูอคติและเหนือจริงมากกวาสมจริง ถาผูอานคนนีไมบังเอิญไดรูจักเพือนตัวเปนๆ ทีมีนิสัยละมายคลายกับตัวละครในเรือง นันคือ คนอังกฤษทีคิดวาชาติตน "เ
สนุกดี นิยายจิกกัดเสียดสีระบอบอาณานิคมอังกฤษในพม่า ตัวเอกเป็นคนผิวขาวคนเดียวทั้งเรื่องที่พอ "เข้าใจ" และ "เห็นใจ" ชนพื้นเมืองคือชาวพม่า แต่ก็เป็น anti-hero ไม่ใช่ "พระเอก" เพราะมีนิสัยเสียหลายอย่าง โดยเฉพาะความขี้ขลาดตาขาว สันหลังยาว ฯลฯ ราวกับว่าผู้เขียนคือ จอร์จ ออร์เวล ระดมเอาแบบฉบับ (stereotypes) แย่ๆ ทั้งหมดของคนอังกฤษยุคล่าอาณานิคมมารวมไว้ในนิยายเล่มเดียว ซึ่งก็อาจทำให้นิยายเรื่องนี้ดูอคติและเหนือจริงมากกว่าสมจริง ถ้าผู้อ่านคนนี้ไม่บังเอิญได้รู้จักเพื่อนตัวเป็นๆ ที่มีนิสัยละม้ายคล้ายกับตัวละครในเรื่อง นั่นคือ คนอังกฤษที่คิดว่าชาติตน "เหนือกว่า" คนผิวเหลือง และคนอินเดียที่หลงใหลในวัฒนธรรมอังกฤษ หรือเป็นอังกฤษยิ่งกว่าคนอังกฤษ :)ภาษาและลีลาเหลือร้าย บรรยายฉากชีวิตในพม่าและความรู้สึกนึกคิดของตัวละครได้อย่างมีสีสัน ไม่น่าเชื่อว่านี่คือนิยายเรื่องแรกในชีวิตของออร์เวล สำนวนแปลของคุณบัญชาก็ถ่ายทอดลีลาของคนเขียนมาได้อย่างยอดเยี่ยม
In George Orwell's essay "Why I Write," he says that his first published work of fiction, Burmese Days (1934), is the kind of book that he aspired to write at the age of sixteen when a passage from Milton's Paradise Lost sent "shivers down [his] backbone." Specifically, Orwell says that he wanted to write "enormous naturalistic novels with unhappy endings, full of detailed descriptions and arresting similes, and also full of purple passages in which words were used partly for the sake of their sound." Well alrighty, then; Go 16-year old Orwell!!
It seems to me U Po Kyin is too literate for his academic background, I don't think he knows Latin (e.g. p.273) and from the novel context, he is not a great reader and there is no information in the novel on his British university education (if any).
2) What is the point of his Latin show-off among his colleagues?However, this novel is, I think, still worth reading for those admiring him as well as Orwell newcomers who would see how he has since revealed how colonialism -- the power that be -- was like to govern Burma as observed by himself as a British police officer there.
I was left wondering how I decide when a book is worth 5 stars.
Good characterization, check with a quibble.
Some days I complain that things use up my reading time.
Instead, after starting this, I gave up other things to make sure my hours with the book were never short-changed.
Surely that should go on my list of things that make a 5-star book.
Too, I wondered how people can live in a place they hate so much they have to start the day with gin so that thet doesn't have to face how horrible a spot they are in, and that the level of alcohol rises throughout the day.
I owe my thirst for colonial novels an apology.
Orwell’s book flashes qualities of Bates in descriptions of Burman climate, wildlife and living circumstances, plus adds highly enjoyable critical view of British colonial society and politics of the 1920s.
The tragic love story naturally is of secondary importance.” A cool breath of wind blew up the hill.
It was one of those momentary winds that blow sometimes in the cold weather in Burma, coming from nowhere, filling one with thirst and with nostalgia for cold sea-pools, embraces of mermaids, waterfalls, caves of ice.”I am more than certain that I lived in the colonial Asia in my beforelife.http://mukikamu.wordpress.com
Set in colonoial Burma, Burmese Days, is a wonderful portrait, and scathing criticism of the English Empire. Orwell uses the character of Flory, an Englishman trapped in the lonely life of an exile in Burma, to voice his own criticism of English colonialism. Orwell's ideas seem remarkably modern considering that this was written earlyish in the twentieth century. A thoroughly engaging read and one that will open the reader's eyes at the same time. I wonder how this was received at the time of publication?
But his novel "Burmese Days" may have a more clever twist: it's the photographic negative of Jane Austin's "Emma".
She could have forgiven him even his Burmese mistress more easily than that."The protagonist does not blame the beginning-of-the-book, unenlightened Emma stand-in:"The gods are just and of our pleasant vices (pleasant, indeed [and I understood this to refer not merely to sex but to the apple of learning]) make instruments to plague us.
But the Orwell stand-in speaks volumes about not just unsuitable couples, but the post-Kipling Raj, when the white men still congratulating themselves for shouldering the burden had no idea the clock was winding to zero.
Suffering in Burma he starts to read and think about what his country is doing, and develops a devastating, and perhaps one-sided, understanding of colonialism.
And we are given to understand that the worse of Englishmen end up in the colonies, being so either originally or after they spend years carrying out their duties; one presumes that Orwell found some redeeming qualities in some English at home.
Orwell's scathing denunciation of British colonialism won't win awards for subtlety, but still a powerful, unsparing account of colonial characters and their tragic foibles.
The humor is of a dark variety, and as the story progresses, it feels like an agonizingly slow train wreck making its way through the fetid jungles of Burma.
Virtually all the characters are unlikable --- perhaps some depth is sacrificed in the interest of illustrating the excesses of the system and the people who run it --- and it seems that there is also an element of self-loathing in the writing, as well as a certain attitude about the country and its people.
A sad, fierce and ambitious novel about the emptiness and loneliness of the waning days of the British Empire. It shows the ugliness and corruption of British class-based social structure, cultural bigotry and the harsh individual fantasies that are needed to keep the whole system afloat. It shows the future potential of Orwell, but lacks the restrained grace of his later novels. There are, however, definite glitters and shadows of both E.M. Forster and Joseph Conrad throughout. It is worth the read for those interested in early Orwell or the decline of the post-WWI British Empire.
This is not a pleasant book to read. I found the characters generally unpleasant and the story extraordinarily depressing. At the same time Orwell pulled no punches in the lacerating portralts of the "civilised" white bureaucracy. Orwell gives the lie to the patriarchal colonial attitude we find in Kipling's dreadful poem: "Take Up the white man's burden". However noble the poet's personal beliefs were in that piece, and I don't doubt but that they were genuine, the reality was far more corrupt.
It's Orwell. It's fantastic. What more is there to say?
The arrival of Elizabeth can’t spell anything good.
It’s a story of ideas, like everything I’ve previously read of Orwell’s.The main point expressed is the general racist attitudes towards the natives by the colonials.
Through the eyes of Flory, the only one in the bunch who accepts natives as, if not equals, actually human, Orwells commentates the general absurdness of their attitudes.
Elizabeth comes to Flory as a ray of light in the dismal grey of his life.
I know, I know, in real life people don’t get happy endings and his books are making poignant social and political points, I get it.
