https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57674.The_Death_Ship
هذه الرواية حقاً صرخة في وجه العالم والقيم الحديثة وكيف إستعبدت الإنسان بطرق جديدة وأكثر خبثاً من عبودية الأزمان القديمة..الرواية لا تحمل الوجه السياسي فحسب بل هي أيضاً رحلة في معاناة العمال على ظهر سفن الموت كما كانت تسمى في القرن التاسع عشر وبداية القرن العشرين وتظهر جانب من حياتهم ومعاناتهم برواية ساخرة وقلم أدبي محنك وعبقري ..
O my fucking christ, this is the most miserable, insufferable book I have ever read.
I could only continue reading because its fucking brilliant, and Traven is a genius.
Mr No-passport gets a job working in the bowels of the Death Ship (Life) and so begins a couple of hundred pages of graphic musing on work, slavery, purgatory, hell, the eternal darkness of the soul, all that.
This book has no redeeming qualities whatsoever, its a journey to the end of the night that plunges into eternal night, but...I have no doubt that this reflects a lot of peoples' lives.
Some complain that it gets boring in the middle with a lot of talk about furnaces (hi, Maureen!) and boilers and such, and there definitely is a lot of time spent on the workaday drudgery of the firemen and coal-drags working in the stoke-hold of the titular ship, but I felt this was there for a reason.
Traven succeeds in making you feel the backbreaking toil, the filth, and the danger of stoking the fires of an ancient, decrepit steamship.
You know the old adage, "show, dont tell," well, Traven shows you how bad it is, and then he shows you some more.
he meets stanislavski, the other coal drag who becomes his friend, who shows him how to survive the job he's been given, and confirms what he already knew to be true: that gale's story is not unique, that there are many people who are forced to take whatever they can get in order to survive by the people who control the bureaucratic machine that controls all the money.
أنها رواية مؤلمة...
زمن الحدود، وجوازات السفر، والتأشيرات....
ليست الحروب مشكلة؛ بقدر ما قد ينجم من آثار؛ عن تلك الحروب....
الحروب العالمية؛ صنعت الحدود، وقيدت حريات البشر...
فقط؛ لأجل أن تفرض الدول همنتها؛ على هذا الإنسان..رواية؛ عن البحث؛ أولاً؛ عن بطاقة بحار...
ثم عن جواز سفر؛ لمن هو بدون جنسية...
لأنه لا يملك وثيقة؛ تُبت ميلاده، أو جنسيته...
فصار؛ بلا هوية، وبلا وطن....رحلة رجل؛ أضاع بطاقة عمله؛ فلزمه أن يتنقل؛ من مكان إلى مكان؛ تمسكاً بالحياة، ورغبة؛ بالعودة إلى وطنه الأم...
يمر هذا الرجل؛ بمغامرات؛ يمكن أن تحصل؛ لأي امرئٍ؛ لا يملك جنسية...رواية غريبة، وتفصيل؛ لحياة البحارة؛ على السفن العادية...
πολύ δυνατό, σκληρό και μίζερο...
Traven (aka Ret Marut aka Otto Feige aka tantos otros alias) desempeñó los oficios de montador mecánico, actor, marino mercante, escritor, frutero, cerrajero y otras mil ocupaciones, pero fue, por encima de todo, un hombre lúcido y comprometido.
Traven, Gerald Gales (o Pippip) es un apátrida, pero un apátrida forzoso, que narra en un tono locuaz y sarcástico, cínico y crítico, las aventuras y desventuras de su vida, que son la historia de un fracaso: el de su lucha contra la burocracia kafkiana, los nacionalismos y el sinsentido de las relaciones de poder tanto en tierra como en el mar.
The novel's vision is tragicomic, deeply involved yet highly detached.Bruce Catton called the book "a startling novel about the horrible things that can happen to a man in the cock-eyed post-war world of Europe if he can't prove he is who he says he is.
Even after many more novels, including the great Treasure of the Sierra Madre, Traven continued to hide behind a post office box in Mexico City.
This reader found Death Ship was a novel with hypnotic power, timelessness, universality and authenticity.
Traven approaches the ability of Joseph Conrad to make the sea come alive, and for that alone I would continue to read and enjoy the his novels.

بحار ينزل إلى مرفئ وتذهب سفينته عنه وجواز وأوراقه الثبوتية في تلك السفينة ومن ثم يصف الصعوبات التي و
استذرف دمعك يابيبه أم ستنتظر دورك للدخول للمهجع ذي الأبيات المشؤومة التي حفرت عند مدخله؟ صحيح، تذكرت، لايمكنك فعل اي شيء، فأنت لاتملك أوراقا ثبوتية
Superato l'esordio promettente, Traven ricade nella definizione mnemonica degli impianti navali della Yorikke, la cosiddetta nave morta, e ripete più volte la personale invettiva contro le pratiche burocratiche. Nell'ultima parte, o almeno negli ultimi capitoli, il romanzo ha saputo riaccendere il mio interesse, anche se - a parer mio - non si aggiudica alcun merito. Significativa è la nozione di "nave morta", che si allontana quanto più possibile dalla costituzione tangibile del romanzo. Infine, ho trovato di una creatività illuminante i numerosi parallelismi di natura metaforica tra burocrazia e il potere in generale.
the first english publication of death ship. it was first translated by traven into german and that version was translated back into english by eric sutton. traven's own english version was finally published several months later.
Traven on the spine of a book, just pick it up.
Traven writing anything containing a stream or a river or a sea in it, hurry home with it.
It is Traven alone--I can't name any other author--who can beat Conrad for sea-writing.
But now I've read Traven.
Traven is the guy who wrote the novel from which that superb movie was adapted; which means you can read the novel and get right inside the heads of 'Fred C.
Because Traven's prose is exactly the way it is shown in the movie.
It also reads somewhat like...Jack Kerouac.
Read B.Traven.{{{{{{{~~~Tarzan yell~~~}}}}}}}}}}
تبحر بك هذه الرواية في سفينة بخارية أو بالأحرى ثلاث سفن ليست كما عهدناها في الأفلام حيث يكون القبطان سيد البطولات بل ستظهر عامل على (سفينة الموتى) لا هوية له .......نعم لا هوية له .....تظهر هذه الرواية أنياب البيروقراطية التي أفقدتنا أهم حرياتنا فأصبح جواز يقارن بالإنسان والإنسانية بل هو أثمن.......فحين تفقده تكون ميت لا أكثر.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~تنقسم هذه الرواية إلى ثلاث أقسام حيث تتسم بجمال السرد والأحداث والتجوال بين دول أوروبية وعربية والنقد الساخر ونهاية مرضية.
The second section of the book is the longest, least focussed, tons of lengthy descriptions of the details of working the ship - the quirks for eating food, lodging, etc...
What follows is the wildly out of character last section- a fever-pitched 50 page action film where the ship does sink, limbs are amputated, and our sailor and his friend endure a harrowing series of nights at sea on the sinking vessel.
I am in fact in no way more important than is the typesetter for my books, the man who works the mill; ...
3.5"Yüzlerce Yorikke, yüzlerce ölüm gemisi yollardadır, yedi denizde yüzerler.
Her ülkenin ölüm gemileri vardır.
No, Sir, her işin bir çıkar yanı olmalı, yoksa yürümez.
Çok ölü olduğu için bu kadar ölüm gemisi var.
Özgürlük için savaşıldı, ama ölenler çok oldu.
Zorbaların, kralların, imparatorların ve onların metresleriyle uşaklarının devrini yendik, onun için savaşıldı.
Özgürlüğe kutsal bir hava ver, bak görürsün ne çıkmaza girer..
en kanlı din savaşları onun başının altından çıkar.
Gerçek özgürlük görecedir, insana göre değişir yani.
Ama hiçbir din görece değildir.
Bu en eski, en sağlam bir dindir, en iyi papazlar, en güzel kiliseler onlardadır.
Yes, Sir!"
If I had to bet, I would say Kurt Vonnegut and Joseph Heller were both B. Traven fans. The Death Ship is in tune with the underdogs of the world, commenting on class, discrimination amongst classes and even amongst people who work shoulder-to-shoulder with each other. It will definitely make you hate your boss a little bit, but at no point turns into some high-handed polemic. Traven takes the character from hell to heaven and back to hell again, over and over. Beside the underlying themes, there is a fantastic and terrifying finale.
ورقة صفراء صغيرة، تخبرنا أنك لست غريب، أنك لست نكرةتمنحك حق أن تعود و ترحل إلى كل الأمكنة، أن يُعترف بحقك في السير و الأكل و النوم على سرير مريح، أن ينقضي الليل و العالم كله يصرخ هذا الشخص ليس نكرة، و لكن إن ضاعت؟تغادرك كل هذه الصلاحيات، تصبح شريد عن كل مأوى، تتقرب و تتوسل إلى كل الأوطان التي تلفظك و كأنك ابن غير شرعي.. لماذا تُصر على العودة إلى وطنك الذي يبحث عنك؟ لن يجدك أحدلن تبتلعك أرضك و لا منزلك، سيبتلعك الغرباء أمثالك، أو يبتلعك البحر ..فالبحر يستقبل من هو بجنسية، أوبدون..
The Death Ship a novel by B TravenTraven writes about work.
In this and others of his fine and unique novels Traven presents his point of view on this phase of the globalized work situation on the ground and on the seas.
He knows that the workers of the world are not going to unite and if they do some among them will exploit that situation so that it will still not be set right with universal justice.
It is not about work but is a very human story set among indigenous people in Mexico who are oddly affected by modernity.
What the novel lacks, however, is a character - at least a human character; the Yorkiee is more fully realized than either our hero, Pipip (we don't even know his real name even when he says it's something else), or Stanislav.
One thing that did occur to is that Pipip and Stanislav might actually the same person.
Basically this novel fails in all the way where the great film The Wages of Fear succeeds.
That film balanced the cheapness of human life with comedy with social satire and with dramatic tension in all the ways this novel could have had it been given a few more drafts.
Second part is more personal, and actually moves focus from wider picture to little society of the Yorikke, Yorikke's crew, and especially at main protagonist.The term death ship refers to boat which is worth more sunk than it would be worth afloat.
Book one is actually funny, satirical, bright and intelligent, sociological critique of society and here we can see just hints of second, more psychological part.Yeah, here we can already see that term death ship is applicable to our main protagonist and to all the people lost at the corner of the society.
Sain 12-vuotiaana isoäidiltäni syntymäpäivälahjaksi Moby Dickin, ja jokainen sen lukuyritys on päättynyt jatkuvaan nukahteluun.
Kuolemanlaiva sen sijaan tuli luettua aika lailla herkeämättä putkeen.
Lopulta Gales päätyy orjatyöhön vakuutusrahojen toivossa uppoamaan määrätyille laivalle, ja valtaosa kirjasta seurataankin sen matkaa merillä.
Välissä kyllä jaaritellaan kuin Moby Dickissä ikään, mutta se on joko tarkkaa kuvausta laivojen epäinhimillisistä työoloista tai Galesin kansanomaista simoamista maailmantilasta, joka on lähempänä baaripöydän kännifilosofointia kuin teoreettista jäykistelyä.
Joka tapauksessa Moby Dickin nukahtamisefektiä ei voitu havaita, vaan pikemminkin päinvastoin.
Luin tästä Love-kirjojen julkaiseman suomennoksen 70-luvulta, jossa oli mukavana lisänä Timo Aarnialan kuvitus ja Peter Von Baghin jälkisanat, joissa selviteltiin sitä kuka B.

What happens when it's World War I and countries are being divided up, and you are not in the city you belong to because you are serving on a ship?
What happens if the ship you work on took off in the middle of the night while you were sleeping in Port?
Now, both of you have no papers to prove where you belong, and no country will let you stay.
You get on a "Death Ship.
This book is about two"drags": coal shovelers/Ash haulers/furnace and boiler stickers for whom this devilish work is the only thing left for sailors with no papers.
He also authored a series of books I've read, on the Mexican revolution, that are now out of print.
B. Traven is a mysterious personality who has been identified as being Rett Marue a German national.
Whatever he was, this book is memorable as a Kafka-esque tale of a stateless sailor who is tossed across national borders and ends up on a "death ship" with the job of stoker in a hellish engine room.
I've read it 3 times in 30 years with wonder and horror.
Also highly recommend B Traven's series on the Mexican Revolution.
Die Hauptfigur, Matrose, wird bei einem Landgang durch vorzeitige Abreise des Schiffes aller ihrer Papiere verlustig und gilt in Folge als Staatenloser. Wie ein Outlaw wird sie nun zwischen den Ländern hin und her geschickt... Die Handlung spielt mit Nantes Göttlicher Komödie. Sie zeigt wie absurd eine Gesellschaft ist, die einem Papier wie einem Pass so viel Bedeutung zukommen lässt. Gleichzeitig finden sich im Rahmen des Syrienkonfliktes und fliehenden Bevölkerung auch aktuelle Bezüge. Das Buch leidet etwas an zu breiter Beschreibung, die nicht immer mitnimmt. Vielleicht liegt dies aber auch an der Übersetzung. Insgesamt aber ein lohnenswertes Buch.
I was interested in this as it was a strong part of the inspiration for the JJ Abrams/Doug Dorst novel S.
Traven was a mysterious figure and this novel, dating from the 1930s, is a mysterious work.
It has strong shades of Kafka as the narrator battles with bureaucracy through the first part of the novel before he finds himself on the death ship of the title, a torturous vessel that seems to have lasted millennia.
The descriptions of life on board the ship are as detailed an indictment of life for the working classes as you're likely to read.
It's a really terrific novel.
B. Traven may be the most mysterious author of all time, at least in modern days.
No one knows who he was, though most think he lived in Germany and was forced to live because of political turbulence.
Some think he was more than one person.
Whatever, he wrote some great stuff.
"Treasure of the Sierra Madre" is a terrific book and a great movie.
(Bogie was a perfect villain.) But "Death Ship" might be better.
Apparently Traven, whoever he was, worked on a ship that was marked for destruction by the owners for the insurance money.
At least that's the plot.
Um, wow. How had I never heard of Traven before? Apparently he's a big deal... and I now see why. I would not have expected to love a novel about sailors and bureaucracy as much as I did this book. A brilliant novel of the interwar period, scathing socioeconomic critique, hilarious and heartbreaking. And voice? This book has got it.
