https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3845354-the-boy-who-followed-ripley
Curious...but convenient, for him."Patricia Highsmith has returned to Tom Ripley, her cash cow, in a plotless and desultory closet-case of a book that uses the word "boring" 32 times.
Highsmith is back at home with Tom's wife, cheerfully saying "I like that young friend of yours!" She appears - at least pretends - not to understand the book she's written.
Ripley's sense of fun, like his sexuality, is so far back in the closet that Highsmith has lost it.
As they get to know each other, Tom learns more about the reasons why Billy/Frank ran away from home and sees some similarities between himself and the boy.
Then the story takes a turn that leads us to follow the two to Berlin where Billy/Frank is kidnapped.......This book seriously had me scratching my head - I don't even know where to start taking this apart: Should I start with the obvious flaw?
At least, it seemed to reflect some of what my impression is about the author after reading a few of her books, and this made The Boy Who Followed Ripley still somewhat intriguing.
"We live in the age of the refugee, the age of the exile."-- Ariel DorfmanThis was a slippery Highsmith.
With the first three books in the Riplad, I bought into the idea that Tom Ripley was absolutely amoral.
Highsmith bends genders, flips expecations, dodges emotions, transforms motives, etc., and almost clones Ripley with Frank.
Probably the most disturbing character in the whole series is Tom's wife Heloise.
I can sympathize Tom's amorality easy enough, but I just can't UNDERSTAND Heloise.
While nothing about her is directly creepy, it is like Highsmith is using Heloise to point a finger at the West or perhaps at the reader.
When writing this one Highsmith wanted to show Tom Ripley as a more compassionate person, so we see him … doing his taxes and … trying to save a boy he barely knows, but all that is boring and uninteresting.
The character in this book doesn’t even feel anything like the Tom Ripley I’ve come to know and love over the course of three books.
Sadly, it looks like the end of the road for the Ripley books for me, I do not think I can read the final one, though I just might try, but I think I need a bit of a break from Highsmith after this.
Her understanding of Tom Ripley and her ability to set the tone and atmosphere of a novel means that it doesn't matter whether his behaviour is that of a sociopath or murderer or curious old man or kindly uncle or bag lady as it's almost impossible not to enjoy it.I can appreciate why some people are of the opinion that this is the weakest Ripley novel to date and perhaps as a standalone title it might well be considered such BUT as a further chronicle in the life of one of great anti-heroes of contemporary literature this is pretty damned enjoyable.Tom is growing old, mellow; his attempts to become a mentor allow us to explore this growth/change in his personality and led to perhaps one of my favourite sequences in the series in the sexual underbelly of West Berlin.
Frank Pierson, sixteen years old and hiding a terrible secret, seeks out Tom Ripley in France, having read about him and feeling a kinship with him.
There's "In a mesmerizing novel that coolly subverts all traditional notions of literary justice, Ripley enthralls us even as we watch him perform acts of pure and unspeakable evil," which makes him sound like a puppy-killer, and "This quietly terrifying exploration of trust and friendship," neither of which really describes the books or Tom Ripley.
So far, Mrs. Highsmith managed to keep me on the hook with her formula: Ripley's ruthless unethical yet strangely admirable character, care for details that bring scenes to life, and well kept rhythm with action and tension at just the right level and coming out of the blue many a time.However, as I approached half the way in this book with hardly an event worth of narration, I started to feel frustrated.
Indeed, looking back at it, the book has a single real event packed with action but before and after is padded with useless pointless narration of too many unimportant details and even unimportant characters that have no role whatsoever.

This book was very strange and disconnected.
Sometimes, I wonder how similar of people Highsmith and Ripley really were/are/etc.
While reading this, I felt like Highsmith was grudgingly trying to explore more of her "fun" side.
It was as if Highsmith had all the ingredients to make a knock-out, fresh and fun story but then decided not to use them.
A pretty disappointing book as well as a chore to read.
I'm still going to go for Ripley Under Water, just to see how this ends...
You're nearly halfway through the book before anything happens plot-wise; before that Ripley just decides to take some runaway rich kid under his wing and go on sneaky jaunts around Europe that seem incredibly suspicious to a modern reader but I guess it wasn't that strange for a married man to go on vacation in a foreign country alone with a sixteen year old boy in the 60s?Once the plot did get going, I kept anticipating clever twists that never materialized.
It goes on and on.I feel I could have made this story much more interesting with my own ideas for twist endings.
The only action in the book is confined to one short rather poorly set up section of the story; it’s never really explained why Ripley suddenly acts on impulse quite in the way he does.
Not French kisses in the American sense, certainly nothing sexy about them, just damned silly."I had planned on completing what is known to Highsmith fans as the Ripliad but this book has put me off the idea; also the reviews on Goodreads for the final book Ripley Under Water would suggest it’s little better than its predecessor.
So I think I’ll bail out on Ripley and concentrate on discovering Highsmith’s earlier more celebrated books.
I'm a big admirer of Patricia Highsmith and have read lots of her books, however, I couldn't help feeling like she knocked this thing out for the money.
In this installment of the Ripley series, 16-year-old heir to a fortune Frank Pierson comes to Ripley's town in France to meet him, for reasons that are vague at best, confesses that he has pushed his father, in a wheelchair, off a cliff to his death behind their estate in Kennebunkport, Maine.
It made me wonder if Highsmith had actually ever met or talked to a 16-year-old boy.
It's gotten to the point for me where Highsmith 'can do no wrong' - meaning that I read each fresh bk in full expectation that she'll have thoughtfully explored the subject at hand in ways that avoid clichés & that show her ever-shifting skill as a crime fiction / psychological thriller writer.
but he's also an appreciator of the 'finer' things in life & he's capable of being very caring & very subtle & very non-judgmental.
& these are the characteristics that Highsmith admires.
I don't know anything about Highsmith's personal life but she was probably bisexual - & many of her novels delve into bisexual, lesbian, & gay subcultures.
The plot unfolds without much fanfare, or frankly much excitement.
Everything seems to be under control most of the time, so we're left mostly to deal with the relationship between the boy and Ripley.
Homosexuality/bisexuality is more than hinted at here, but she seems to back off of really exploring it.
It's clear that Ripley is at least a bit gay, but it's never explicitly acknowledged.
And the boy is clearly bisexual also, but somehow this could also have been dealt with better.
And frankly the parallels between Dicky Greenleaf and the boy, and Ripley's relationship with both could have been better explored.
Before I start, let me tell you that I hate back covers summaries because they give away all the plot and it takes some suspense out off the book (view spoiler)[like...
sighs (hide spoiler)]So I started liking this book a lot.
(view spoiler)[No one like Tom Ripley to help you about a murder you didn't intend to do but you-kind-of-wanted-and-kind-of-did.
(view spoiler)[I did feel bad for Frank, and it seems that he just couldn't get over his guilt about killing his father.
Which is kind of unfortunate, because it gives us new insight into Tom's character, and into Highsmith's point overall.The novel opens with Tom meeting a teenager named Billy who, like Tom himself, isn't quite what he appears to be.
Here, we see Tom reading Christopher and His Kind, which is also set partly in Berlin and centers on an older man's involvement with a teenage boy.
For this reason, it's no surprise the novel has the saddest ending in the series, with Highsmith giving Tom a rare self-reflective moment as he thinks about everything that's happened, and about what might have been.
The Boy Who Followed Ripley, the fourth novel in the Ripley series, is one of Patricia Highsmith's darkest and most twisted creations.Tom Ripley meets a young American runaway who has a dark secret that he is desperate to hide. Soon this unlikely pair is drawn into the seamy underworld of Berlin and a shocking kidnapping. In this masterful thriller, Highsmith shatters our perceptions of her most famous creation by letting us glimpse a more compassionate side of this amoral charmer.
Очень нелогичная, а самое главное неинтересная книга!!!!Мистер Рипли с каждым разом (книгой) совершает поступки один нелепее другого (это, ведь, психологический триллер, а кто там в этой психологии толком разберётся, тем более в психологии преступника)!!! Но здесь к нему присоединяется ещё один тип, не дружащий с логикой, так что четвёртая часть получилась в 2 раза глупее.P.S. Сейчас буду читать "Ивана Васильевича" (который меняет профессию). Эта книга просто обязана мне понравиться!!!
A young American boy, Frank, the heir of a very wealthy family, kills his father and flees to France to hide from his guilt, though everyone thinks it was either an accident or suicide.
The young man stirs some semblance of emotions in Tom Ripley that he has never felt before and he actually cares for and strives to help the boy weather his existential crisis.
But Tom is ultimately unable to help Frank through his crisis of conscience, since he has never had much of a conscience himself and thinks this is little more than a phase through which the boy will pass with a little understanding and assistance.
He picks up an acolyte in the form of Frank, who's committed a murder that's definitely got echoes of Tom's first killing of Dickie.
Tom seems as fixated on Frank as Frank is on him.
Dressing up in drag - full on drag queen drag, not simply disguised as a woman - for the rescue of Frank from the kidnappers is quite surreal.
He's someone who adapts to his surroundings, and he does the same in West Berlin.Does he have normal emotions?
But the moment at the end when he's brought home the toy bear from Berlin gives a hint of some kind of emotion stirring deep inside.
Though some may find Frank Pierson an interesting character, I was soon disappointed to see that he was reduced to a maudlin mass of ennui.
There is nothing exciting or dramatic (or even interesting, for that matter) in a character who essentially "mopes" his way through an entire novel, brooding on the boorish notion that his girlfriend has gone off with another boy because he has travelled to France.
Of all the Ripley books this was the one I was a bit disappointed in.
If you crave the constant action of The Talented Mr. Ripley, you might find it a slow read.
as a narrative, it's a bit sloppier than its predecessors.
its lack of focus makes for a disappointing follow-up to ripley's game, my favorite highsmith novel thus far (i've read 6).
ripley's covert homoeroticism crosses over into more overt territory here, with mixed (and occassionally ridiculous) results.the most compelling thing about the book is its almost lop-sided construction.
in fact, the "criminality" of the narrative becomes almost marginal by comparison.
i'm not sure what it's all meant to add up to-- structurally or conceptually-- but it's elusiveness is very compelling...
which could be said of everything i've read by highsmith.
I'm still loving the Ripley series.
In "The Boy Who Followed Ripley", we spend the best part of the book away from Villeperce as Tom and his young American friend, Frank, travel to Germany and eventually back to the USA.
There aren't as many bodies here, certainly not so many murders perpetuated by Ripley.
But still plenty of dark humour and some amusing scenes where Tom dresses up in drag to disguise himself in order to identify and follow Frank's kidnappers.This is book 4 out of 5, so I think I'll make myself wait before reading the last one, as there won't be any more!
maybe 2.5. stars, but no more than that.rather weak in terms of plot and characters, getting increasingly boring and tedious after page 100 (of 290).anybody interested in the ripley-novels should of course go for the excellent first book, the talented mister ripley, then, with the momentum of the first book, quickly read the second one, ripley under ground, which ist definitely nothing special, but a decent read and then enjoy the excellent third book of the series, ripley's game ... and then leave it at that.
Our amoral friend Ripley, living with Heloise in France, is approached by a mysterious young man, who it is revealed, has killed his father and is seeking refuge in France, both from his family, who do not believe he is guilty, and from his conscience, which knows he is culpable. Ripley assumes the unusual role of "good guy" in this novel. After Frank, the young man, is kidnapped, Ripley goes to extreme lengths to successfully help his young friend.
I thought the work was daring. Highsmith challenges Ripley and herself by giving Ripley a protegé.He has a wife, but he chose carefully a woman with similar taste and an independent life. Ripley, whose life depends on secrets now has someone in his life who is not independent. As the title states, he is a boy. A boy needs a man to guide him. Is Ripley the right choice?
even more pleased than I would have guessed to find out that both Patricia Highsmith and Tom Ripley are evidently at least moderate Lou Reed fans
Definitely not as fascinating as the Ripley trilogy, but still a decent read, especially after a more demanding read.
So I had no expectations based on the stellar trio that preceded this one (okay, "Under Ground" is not the masterpiece that the first and third are, but it's an excellent book wholly consistent in tone with the others).So coming to this one all these years later, most of the details forgotten, in its proper context of my re-reading the entire Ripliad, I understand entirely why people don't like it.
When I finished it I updated my Goodreads with a 3-star rating: some good stuff, but doesn't come together.But the more I think about it the more I'm moved by the curious melancholy and sadness of this young man who seeks out Ripley because Tom has, like him, committed murder and got away with it.
As usual, I will keep things general to prevent any spoilers.Tom Ripley continues to grow as a human being.
This continues to be an interesting evolution.
This book was published in 1980 and is set at that time.
This book is an interesting time machine to places I'd never been to at a time that I was existing.
But this book, like the other Ripleys, is rather warped and a little creepy.
This is the last Ripley book that I own.
It will be interesting to see how Highsmith ends this series.
