https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/237337.My_World
Something about Mommy Bunny that I find very comforting...nice to read on a cold and windy day.
This book fucking sucks.
The book opens with the introduction of Mother's cryptic book, the contents of which the child is forbidden from beholding (we later observe over Mother's shoulder that it is filled with blank pages).
The pages turn." Effective and creepy, no?Later, the Child plays with his toy car, while Daddy (far away and with his back turned) works on his car.
On the previous page, the teddy bear has been identified with the Child.
The Child's car won't go very far; but, presumably, Daddy's car (or Daddy himself) will--and we will see this borne out near the end, when Daddy leaves the family.
This book is so comforting and makes perfect sense to my children- perfect for 18 months- 3 year olds. My son chose it nightly for many months. I think this author knows what children want and need to hear more than any other. I love this better than Goodnight Moon.
Wow. I'm amazed at the low ratings and negative reviews for this book. It's not as mesmerizing as Goodnight Moon, but the cadence and rhyme of the text is pleasing to read out loud. I think it's a simple little story about a bunny with a limited vocabulary and view of the world showing off his everyday life and things to the readers and listeners. My son loved this book.
The kid loves looking at the pictures and talking about what's happening on each page. A bit of a surprise to me, since it's quite quaint.
The tale of the little bunny continues in this wonderful little book.
Margaret Wise Brown touches on the little things, the little details of a home and a child's surroundings - these things are what a child finds remarkable and important in their own little world.
Some adults have criticized the author for writing a book that makes no sense, but when you get right down to it and give it a closer look, it makes perfect sense to a small child.
And the small child is the intended audience, not an adult.
I can swing right over the world.
Whoa.
What the F was going on in Margaret Wise Brown's mind?
This is a book for toddlers and hard-core Dadaists.
It's one of those books that I would think you shouldn't look at if you are tripping because it could send you into a spiral and put you in a fetal position for three days.
It makes no sense.
It seems to consist of rough notes for other books, stitched together with drawings of the characters from The Runaway Bunny if they were a depressed suburban family with a distant father and a mother who drinks a little.
After all, "Goodnight Moon" (GM) was in very heavy rotation in my home for years.
I even memorized it so I could slowly repeat it in monotone, in the dark, at 4 a.m., when my son needed rocking and soothing.
I don't know what it is about the flow and pacing of GM, but it's lyrical and mesmerizing, like a Murakami novel ["Goodnight nobody" huh?!], but for infants.
I think Margaret Wise Brown is trying something interesting.
She's seems to be trying to capture the fledgling observation of curiosity of a very young child, but it just doesn't resonate with me, or my son.
This book was pretty disappointing, especially because I LOVED Goodnight Moon.
I was really looking forward to reading this one to Caleb but I found that it was not easy or enjoyable to read out loud.
I couldn't get into a good rhythm with it.
As an example, here are the words from one page that I found didn't flow well when reading out loud:"Daddy's boy.Mother's boy.My boy is just a toyBear."This section, like most of the book, just sounds strange to me and doesn't have good rhythm.
This isn't one that I'll likely read to Caleb again.
First read: 8/18/15
I read Goodnight Moon for the first time as an adult earlier this year when it was bought for my niece and honestly didn't see the appeal or why it was so many people's favorite.
I'm sure I'm biased since The Runaway Bunny is the one I grew up with, but it honestly seems to also have a real message attached to it and a cute story.
I don't mean to hate on Goodnight Moon or My World at all as I'm sure many of you grew up with them and feel just as fond of those two as I do of The Runaway Bunny and I recognize that I might be biased, but it just doesn't make sense to me.
My World: A Companion to Goodnight Moon / by Margaret Wise Brown; pictures by Clement Hurd -- New York : Harper & Row, c1949. (36 pages)SUMMARY: A day with the bunny family from GOODNIGHT MOON and RUNAWAY BUNNY.REVIEW: OK read, but not as lovable and enjoyable as the first two titles. In fact, I recently just read the title for the first time and have read the others at least 20 times each (or more).NOTE: Daddy rabbit appears in this story.
My son liked this well enough that I bumped it up an extra star, but I thought it was awful. I have no idea why this book even exists other than she had luck with Goodnight Moon and tried to capitalize on it? The rhymes are awkward and there's not a coherent narrative like there is in Goodnight Moon. Blah. Not my thing.
not her best
Weird and creepy. I didn’t like it nor did the toddler. Prefer modern books with plot and words on the same page as the illustrations.
If you are a fan of Goodnight Moon, you will surely enjoy this story as well.
The pictures are nice, but the story isn't as good as goodnight moon.
My daughter and I enjoyed this, though not as much as the original.
Boy want to sleep and her mom said go to sleep and her my world
A sweet and easy to read story for little ones. A child is connecting things in his life with what is around him.
Same style and characters from Goodnight Moon, as expected. The rabbit is explaining all the things is his world. I felt sort of meh about this one.
Definitely not my favorite. A bit much for MAB4m at only 4 months but based on my own kids long ago love of Margaret Wise Brown's books, even though they rarely do anything for me, I will try it again .... in a year or so!
But Brown died in 1952 and this was published in 1949 which I guess just goes to show was interesting person she must have been.
If you thought Goodnight Moon was eerie, wait until you read My World.
We are reunited with the bunny from Goodnight Moon and Runaway Bunny and introduced to different aspect of his life and the world around him.
Most of the content is comparisons between the bunny's things and his parent's things and that feels very true to the way a child experiences the world.

Even though Margaret Wise Brown has provided readers with the same characters and illustration style found in her lovely classic _Goodnight Moon_, this companion book lacks the charm and the appeal of her first book.
_My World_ follows the baby bunny as he compares his things (comb, toothbrush, cat, etc.) to his parent's.
For those who enjoyed the blogger at "The Ugly Volvo"'s poignant review of the bizarre bedroom in _Goodnight Moon_ (found here: http://theuglyvolvo.com/issues-goodni...), _My World_ provides just as strange an array of items and underlying messages about this bunny family.
It also cements gender roles in limiting and unappealing ways.
Branching out from his usual activities of saying goodnight to everything in the room before bed, the Goodnight Moon bunny is now exploring the rest of his world and family, even going so far as venturing outside in the daytime.There's a sort of novelty in the idea of a companion piece to Goodnight Moon, but I don't know...
It was fun to see the bunny explore a little more, but some of the meter and illustrations seemed a little off-putting, and the ending was pretty abrupt.
I don't think we'll add this one to the nightly bedtime ritual.
I picked up My World from our library's shelf, because my children loved Goodnight Moon, and I've given dozens of copies to babies over the years.
Though My World, first published in 1949, is by the same author, Margaret Wise Brown, with illustrations by the same illustrator Clement Hurd, it lacks the flowing literacy of Goodnight Moon and lacks its charm as it goes through little rabbit's days and nights enumerating what is his and what similar things belong to his mother and father.
It is a sad and weak companion to the wonderous Goodnight Moon.
My first thought is to give this 1 star if any. It bugs the heck out of me to read aloud the disjointed verse with its random storyline. They say that art evokes strong emotion.....so perhaps this is art that I can't appreciate. Yet I'm fascinated with my disdain for this to the point of obsessing over what it all means. The bonus star issue to the fact that my child with autism LOVES this book. That further makes me wonder what I'm missing. He always sees what the rest of us miss in life, so I'll keep looking.....
My World .Harper Collins (1949).My World is about the same young rabbit from the classic bedtime story Goodnight Moon.
In this picture book readers follow the bunny as he says hello to familiar things in our world, such as chairs.
It has been called the companion to Goodnight Moon, and has a similar layout.This is a cute book and very useful with its use of rhyming.
Children (reading level 3-6) will enjoy the detailed pictures and following bunny as he goes through his day greeting things they too are familiar with.
It is a great pairing with the classic Goodnight Moon.
This book sucked.
Just finished reading it to the girls and I was just totally shocked at how lame it is compared to Goodnight Moon.
It's just a bunch of repeated words that make no sense and fail miserably to accomplish the soothing rhythm of a bedtime poem.
And the last page is so so random.
After hearing all about this little rabbit and his belongings, the last page asks "How many stripes are on a bee?" What in the world?
Not only did this book suck; but it left me extremely irritated for some reason.
Oh, and it's NOT full color.
