https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/375915.An_Extraordinary_Egg
I really liked An Extraordinary Egg, but I am such a huge Fish is Fish fan (one of my favorite books from my childhood), that I will pretty much love anything by Leo Lionni.
My niece and nephew seemed to think this book was ok, but neither of them was particularly impressed with it.
They were both so hung up on the fact that the "chicken" was really a crocodile, that they weren't able to see the humor in the story.
I think they were mostly annoyed that the frogs didn't know a chicken from a crocodile--anyone ought to know the difference between a bird and a reptilian eating machine, after all.
This is rather amusing and a great read to throw in while studying amphibians and reptiles.
Update: 2015 An Extraordinary Egg is a story written about 1948 I believe.
It is one of several by Leo Lionni that has entertained children for decades.
Now for the summer of 2015, this story returns in a Step into Reading Level 3 reader right on key for students that are getting ready to read on their own.
Reading this now, I'd say that it would a perfect one to add in when studying classifications in science.
This review will post: http://creativemadnessmama.com/blog/2015/07/13/an-extraordinary-egg-by-leo-lionni-step-into-reading-level-3/
Though I really enjoyed this book, something seemed off and so I gave it a 4 instead of a 5. The illustrations are typical of Lionni's work. In this story, a frog finds a "rock" which the other frogs call a chicken egg. So when it hatches, it turns out to be something other than a chicken. However, they never really realize that. This I think is the problem for me. I think for an adult it was a great joke. Need to think about this from a child's perspective.
Very cute, I thought I had already read this, but, must have confused it for yet another alligator book. Living in Florida, I've read a PILE of those. Basically, the frogs confuse an alligator egg for a chicken egg and the confusion persists even after the little alligator hatches. My 7 year old thought the book was pretty funny. It's about a 3rd grade level, but, not too wordy so a second grader can probably get through it with some help.
This is a funny story about three frogs, one of which always brings home something extraordinary she'd found. One day she rolled home a big round pebble which turned out to be an egg. One frog said it's a chicken egg. Soon it hatched, so they called the little green four-legged animal a chicken. Funny ending. Great illustrations.
It's such a welcome change when authors treat children like capable readers. Take a cue from Leo and leave some gaps in the story, people! The chicken mistake is never addressed, which is fun, funny and fabulous.A forerunner to Arlene Sardine, I do believe.
The little ones think it is hilarious when (SLIGHT SPOILER HERE) the two frogs keep calling the baby alligator a chicken. "THAT'S NOT A CHICKEN!" they kept interrupting the story to tell me.Yes. I know. ;]
An Extraordinary Egg is about a frog named Jessica who comes across an egg while looking for pebbles.
She brings it back to her friends and they explain that it is a chicken egg.
They frogs continue to call the alligator a chicken and Jessica and the alligator become best friends.
Then one day a bird comes and tells the alligator that it's mom is looking for it and Jessica takes the alligator back to it's mom.I thought this book was hilarious!
I love that the frogs continue to call the alligator a chicken throughout the entire book.
This book is about a frog named Jessica who finds an egg while looking for extraordinary pebbles.
She takes it back to the other two frogs (Marilyn and August) and they tell her it’s a chicken egg!
The egg hatches and an alligator comes out.
Jessica and the chicken (alligator) end up becoming best friends.
The frogs continue to call the alligator a chicken and then one day a bird comes and tells Jessica and the chicken that the chicken’s mother is looking for her.
Jessica goes back to her friends all still so convinced that their new friend was a chicken, they all laughed at how ridiculous the mom sounded.
Requested birthday gift book. Love the art and the description of one of the frogs as "one who was always somewhere else." (view spoiler)[The scene where the chicken saves that frog from drowning is a little bit of a traumatic surprise, but so is the fact that the big chicken at the end of the book didn't pop the frog into her mouth for dinner. I thought that the reptile kind of chickens eat frogs. (hide spoiler)]
Three little frogs on an island, one likes to explore. She finds an egg but thinks it's a pebble. The other frogs tell her it's a chicken egg. Out hatches an alligator but they call it chicken. Then one day the mom is looking for her alligator. The frog takes the little baby back to her mom and tells her to come visit any time. Then the frog tells the others that the mom called the baby her little alligator and they thought that was the funniest thing ever and couldn't stop laughing.
On Pebble Island, there live 3 frogs: Marilyn, August and Jessica. Jessica is always “discovering” excitement on the island. One day, she finds what she thinks is a chicken egg. When the egg hatches, the “chicken” (which is really an alligator) saves Jessica and they become fast friends. Until one day, the chicken discovers her mom.
Cute story about a frog who finds a mysterious egg, and brings it home to hatch. Does that thing kids love where it gets something wrong, that kids will recognize and laugh at. A bit much text on some of the pages, so maybe 4+.
This book was enjoyable and cute, but it did not contain a rich lesson or moral. It would be a great book for very young readers when they are learning to read as it contains simple language, a simple plot, and very little words on each page.
Three frogs play together, but one of them keeps wandering off. On one of her journeys she finds what she thinks is a big rock, but it is really an egg. When it hatches one of the frogs says it's a chicken, but it's not.
Good book but much too long for my storytimes!
7/24/17 Read with Julia.
A frog finds an egg and shows her friends. When the egg hatches, the frogs are a little wrong about what it actually is.
Super cute book! Kept me giggling the whole time I read it. I loved how curious the frog was, and how he was so brave!
This one hit a hidden funny bone in my child! He thinks it is hilarious that the frogs are convinced that the baby alligator is a chicken.
Florida kids will eat this up! DRA 24
I’d probably give it a 3.5 stars if I could. It was a cute story, but I’m really not a fan of the illustrations.
This book is hilarious!
This is a quirky picture book about a frog who finds a crocodile egg and when it hatches thinks it's a chicken. Young listeners get the joke and think the confusion is funny. With signature Lionni art work, this would also be a useful book to use to begin a discussion about animal classification.
While exploring one day Jessica finds what she believes to be a HUGE pebble, but when she gets home know-it-all Marilyn tells Jessica that the pebble is a chicken egg.
By making this story connect to everyday life I think that this book would be loved by most children.
Lionni does a phenomenal job of creating a story that children will love.
The text tells a story of frogs who find a chicken, but the bright pastel pictures show that the chicken is not a chicken at all.
I think that children will love that the three frogs think that the alligator is a chicken.
She likes to bring pebbles back to her friends to show them her extraordinary finds but they are never that impressed with her.
Marilyn explains to Jessica that it is in fact not a pebble, but a chicken egg.
What actually comes from the egg is the most surprising and exciting part.Star Rating: 5 stars!Themes: Being adventurous and finding new things, not letting others put you down, being friends with someone no matter how unordinary they are.Personal Connection: I would always find things when I was little that I thought were so cool and bring them to my parents.
In his creative and unexpected style, Leo Leonni tells the story of Jessica, a very curious frog. On Pebble Island, Jessica spends her days exploring looking for the perfect stone. MOne day, she finds an especially unique stone. Her frog friends, Mariyln and August realize that this is not just any pebble; it’s an egg! Without much world experience, the frogs name this animal a chicken. They spend their days playing together and having fun. This chicken can swim just like the frogs. This may be
In his creative and unexpected style, Leo Leonni tells the story of Jessica, a very curious frog.
On Pebble Island, Jessica spends her days exploring looking for the perfect stone.
MOne day, she finds an especially unique stone.
They spend their days playing together and having fun.
This chicken can swim just like the frogs.
This is a funny story that students will be sure to enjoy.
The students could make observations about an unfamiliar object or correct the mistakes of the frogs in the story.
Regardless, this story would be a great read aloud for students in primary grades.
This is a sweet and humorous story.
We enjoy Leo Lionni's books - the stories are good for children and the richly textured collage illustrations are colorful, with a distinctive style.
This story reminds me of a coworker (or two).
(view spoiler)[Despite being told by the alligator's mother that her baby is, indeed, an alligator, the frogs choose to think that she is just being silly.
After all, he's a chicken!
(hide spoiler)].
I wondered how long the 'chicken' would be friends with the frogs before he decided to eat them.
We really enjoyed reading this story together.
It's an extraordinary day on Pebble Island for three frogs when one of them discovers a beautiful white egg.
From award winning-artist Leo Lionni, here's a hilarious case of mistaken...moreIt's an extraordinary day on Pebble Island for three frogs when one of them discovers a beautiful white egg.
They've never seen a chicken egg before, but they're sure that's what this must be.
They've never seen a chicken egg before, but they're sure that's what this must be.
a chicken!
From award winning-artist Leo Lionni, here's a hilarious case of mistaken identity that children are sure to delight in.(less) Hilarious!!!
This story is about 3 frogs.
One of the frogs, Jessica, finds an egg one day.
Her frog friends tell her it is a chicken egg.
When it hatches, it is a baby alligator, but the frogs still think it is a chicken.
One day, a bird comes along, sees the "chicken" and tells him that he knows where his mother is.
So Jessica and the chicken follow the bird for a very long time.
Jessica returns to her frog friends to inform them that the mother called her baby an "alligator".
I'm not sure I understand the purpose of it, other than an entertaining story.
