https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33378951-the-midnight-line
Jack Reacher. You could call him Bigfoot. You could call him The Hulk. But you could never call him Tom Cruise.
There once was a character named ReacherWho whupped on bad dudes like a creatureNow Reacher's a shell of his once former selfWith writing so lame, so timid, so tameJack's damn near a pacifist preacher.Child loves to bore us with listsAnd gives Reacher chickens for fistsHis glory days are doneReacher's no longer funHe should just amble off in the mist. (Teri Pre)I read what you wrote it was goodCompact and concise, understoodToo bad Child cannot seeJack stumble so miserablyHe'd write better if only he could.0 of 10 stars!
Lee Child is back with the twenty-second high-impact Jack Reacher novel that pulls on various aspects of current affairs, while addressing some large tears in the military fabric of the United States.
Like the dedicated Army MP he was, Reacher follows the trail to Wyoming, where he begins a search for Serena Rose Sanderson, the rightful owner of the ring.
Child is back, adding another chronologically-sound novel to the series and keeping Reacher fans pleased with the outcome.
Military veterans play a strong theme in many Reacher novels, particularly how they are treated.
He has that American wanderlust that has led to the settlement of our country.Reacher wanders by a pawn shop in a small town in Wisconsin and notices a West Point Academy ring.
As Reacher is a vet, he understands the struggle and sets off on his mission- to find the owner of that ring who was desperate as to pawn her West Point ring.This was really a touching book that just reminded me why I got hooked on this series in the first place.
The year is 1997, Heathrow terminal 4, and by some luck I bought, Killing Floor, the riveting and action-packed start to the JR series and now, 20 years and 22 books on with the latest being The Midnight Line, I mourn the loss of the real and enigmatic JR.In all honesty, I think I've outgrown this character or perhaps the central premise of a nomad-like hero who lives free from any and all encumbrance seems implausible in this digital era amid a growing security and terrorism war.
The Midnight Line is all about honor.
Jack Reacher comes upon a West Point ring in a pawn shop and wants to return it to it’s owner.
The book is set in the wide open Midwest and Lee Child makes you feel as if you are there.
Terrific repertoire.The series usually has one intelligent woman involved in Reacher’s story, but this time there are three: a wounded West Point grad, her sister, and a local detective.
I read all the Reacher books and love them all.
I really enjoy how Reacher values intelligent women and treats them so well.
I went into this just looking for a fun entertaining read.As you all know from the blurb Jack finds a female sized West Point ring in a pawn shop window and is interested.
The first third of the book was so slow moving I nearly gave up reading it, but I was becoming interested to find out who the owner of the ring was.
Many times left to turn to alcohol and drugs in an attempt to heal themselves.There are some interesting characters in this book.
Had the rest of the book been as interesting this could easily have been a 4 or 5 star read.
I really enjoyed this twenty second outing with Jack Reacher. It started out smart and funny and developed into an excellent story.Of course Jack's latest girlfriend from the last book disappeared instantly. Not surprising really since he doesn't own a suitcase let alone a house. Not good relationship material. Good story material though which of course is why we all keep reading him:)Basically a brilliant way of passing a few hours without overtaxing the brain. One star off for a poor ending. A clothes dryer, seriously?
I’d taken a brief sojourn from the Reacher books.
Reacher has found a class ring in a pawn shop window, it’s a West Point ring – an establishment he’d also attended.
The setting lends itself perfectly to the type of story Lee Child likes to tell.
There are not many people about, so he can keep the cast small, and the geography is simple – the empty roads, a small town and not much else – and this means he can allow Reacher free rein with little interference into his movements or his actions.
I’d missed Jack Reacher.
For the 22nd time, Lee Child's creation of Jack Reacher, came rip-roaring back to life onto the streets, alleyways and bars.
Every few days an exchange of new clothes for old.
Another woman fell victim to the Reacher curse.
Couldn't wrap her head around his aimless, rambling lifestyle.
Headed out on the first bus to anywhere, USA.
When questioned, the pawn shop owner said the ring had been purchased from Jimmy Rat. Gotta love the name.
As expected, Reacher was not welcomed with open arms.
Reacher walked away without a scratch.
What Reacher discovered was much more than what he had bargained for.
The Midnight Line Jack Reacher #22Lee ChildAn immensely satisfying and emotional journey with America’s giant hero, Jack Reacher and his tooth brush. ⭐⭐⭐⭐SUMMARYReacher is off to another unknown destination when sees a 2005 West Point class ring in the window of a pawnshop in a small town in Wisconsin. It’s a small ring, made for a woman and has a black stone in the middle. Some initials are engraved inside the ring. Reacher ponders what circumstances could possible make a West Pointer give up a
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️SUMMARYReacher is off to another unknown destination when sees a 2005 West Point class ring in the window of a pawnshop in a small town in Wisconsin.
It’s a small ring, made for a woman and has a black stone in the middle.
Reacher wants to know the story and decides to find the woman and return her ring.
It is another first rate journey with Big Foot, er, I mean Reacher.
I listened to the Audible version, and it’s good, but I am not a huge fan of Dick Hill’s voice for Jack Reacher.
The year is 1997, Heathrow terminal 4, and by some luck I bought, Killing Floor, the riveting and action-packed start to the JR series and now, 20 years and 22 books on with the latest being The Midnight Line, I mourn the loss of the real and enigmatic JR.In all honesty, I think I've outgrown this character or perhaps the central premise of a nomad-like hero who lives free from any and all encumbrance seems implausible in this digital era amid a growing security and terrorism war.
This book follows the trend, though I personally found the story to be somewhat weak in comparison to many other Jack Reacher novels.Jack Reacher is wandering around the country – with nothing except a toothbrush, as he always does.
Reacher aborts his journey and decides he will follow the trail – if the owner is ok, the search ends.
He follows the trail which leads him to suspected drug dealers.
He discovers that the owner of the ring is one of twin sisters.
It is still a good read - as all Jack Reacher novels are.My rating: 3.5 / 5
When the bus made a rest stop, Reacher stretched his legs for a time.
The stroll past the pawn shop would change his destination and change his future.
Because the small, delicate ring in the window was an engraved West Point class ring from 2005 and Reacher knew no one who worked that hard would give it up.
Was that where he’d find answers?The Midnight Line is the 22nd in the Jack Reacher series by Lee Child, and another fast paced, gritty thriller which I thoroughly enjoyed.
I love this series and look forward to each one as it’s released.
Looking forward to #23 now 😊
Where Lee Child really gets ridiculous is in describing Reacher as having hands the size of a supermarket chicken and like Bigfoot or The Incredible Hulk.
About the only thing more ridiculous would be casting Tom Cruise to play the part of Jack Reacher.What I found compelling and what set this apart was it was a story of the servicemen and women who have come home with life changing wounds.
Hopefully if there is another Jack Reacher novel Lee Child will not include descriptions like "hands the size of a supermarket chicken".
As a long time Reacher Creature, I went into this book blind. My only expectation was that Reacher would get himself into a situation, and he did. This is a good one. Very enjoyable.
He owns a laundromat with a suspicious back room, but despite stakeouts by local law enforcement like Detective Gloria Nakamura, enough evidence to get a search warrant hasn't turned up.As an aside, Scorpio's colorful description is an example of one of the reasons I love these books: He was, "Maybe six feet two.
They end up in remote Wyoming, where of course Reacher and Bramall find themselves on the receiving end of even more physical encounters (hey, that's another reason I love these books).
By now the formula is fairly well set, and as this book opens, Reacher is strolling through a small town in Wisconsin.
It's a small ring, and Reacher concludes that the original owner was a woman.
Engraved in the ring are the initials S.R.S., and the year 2005, suggesting that the woman graduated just in time to serve in Iraq, Afghanistan, and other such troubled and dangerous places.The pawnshop owner initially refuses to tell Reacher where he got the ring, but when Jack Reacher is looking for information, it's generally a bad idea not to provide it.
Twenty-two.Lee Child has written twenty-two stories about Army veteran Jack Reacher and his restless journey across these United States.
See, Jack's heading out to Wyoming.
Lee Child has visited Wyoming.
It's the only way you can miss the wind.
It's the only way you can write the sentence: The dust plume was a mile long, hanging in the motionless air.
You just weren't there long enough to recognize that the air in Wyoming is never still.
The wind off those Rockies does not stop.
Miss it, and those of us who've lived in Wyoming are going to know you've only visited.
Cue Carly Simon: Nobody does it better. Makes me feel sad for the rest.  I read and enjoy a lot of thriller books and it seems by comparison that some writers are trying way too hard with less result. Child just makes it seems so darn easy. Additional props for unexpected humorous bits. "Cowboys are the worst.. Not much I can do to them that a horse already hasn't" Nobody does it half as good as you. Reacher, you're the best
It's one of the more unimaginative of Lee Child's books, as the plot is lazy, the characters uninspiring, and without much of the great action the series is known for.
This is a series I use to throughly enjoy for the most part, but the past few books in the series have dragged on leaving me with an empty feeling whilst reading them.I would like to take this opportunity to list a few things that would greatly benefit any new entries in the series from hence forth.
Sherlock Holmes has his Moriarty, let Reacher find a villain of equal footing.2) Give us different female side character(s) than the typical cardboard cutouts this series and ones like it continue to produce.
Audiobook - 11:17 Hours - 3.5 out of 5.0 stars (I am not a particularly high marker, so 3.0 is a good mark for me.)Narrator: Jeff Harding - the perfect replacement for Dick Hill.I am pleased to say that in "The Midnight Line", Reacher #22, Lee Child appears to have returned to the mode of writing (I refuse to use 'formula') that made the character of Jack Reacher such a success.
I've read/listened to them all, many of them more than once, some more than twice and this book is as good as any of the previous 21 and much better than a lot of them.
Reacher follows his moral code, seeking the owner of West Point ring...
I thoroughly enjoyed another ride with Jack Reacher, as I have since book one!
Lee Child swung back to the Big guy we know and love, buying a ticket and getting on a bus to the next town where he notes a class ring from West Point in a pawn shop.
That is what keeps my attention, the great characters, the intense plots and the amazing scenes we visit!Jack Reacher is definitely back, and I hope he is going to keep searching for his place to belong for a long time...
After more than 20 books Jack Reacher still drifts into a new town where he is caught up in a world of intrigue, villains & fist fights.Yes, it's the formula as before.....but I still love it! However, there are times when the novel moves away from the expected & Lee Child creates some genuine moments of sadness and humanity.The tagline on the cover of the book says "A righteous avenger for our troubled times-we all need Jack Reacher." I, for one, cannot argue with that.
Just in time for Veteran's Day, another Jack Reacher book has been released, which examines what happens to wounded servicemen and women when they come home.
Reacher runs into resistance right away but learns enough to begin following a trail that leads him to South Dakota, then Wyoming, where he teams up with a private investigator and his client.
As it turns out,they are both looking for the same woman--the client's twin sister, Serena Rose Sanderson.
Makes for some exciting and compulsive reading!Many thanks to NetGalley, the author and publisher for the opportunity to read an arc of this exciting new book!
After my last Jack Reacher experience I said that was it.
I however received this as a gift over the holiday season and gave it a shot.
Its definitely an improvement from his last few attempts however I still feel as if Jack Reacher suffers from the same issues.
I also love character development but I feel like his character has stalled and really cant do much more with him.
Alot better than the previous releases but I'm definitely done with him, hopefully Mr Childs starts a new character in the years to come.
Big followers/fans will live this as its an old school Reacher type tale.
2 stars - not quite a pass.
Fairly humdrum addition to the Reacher series, a series that I read as a guilty pleasure, a break from other, better novels.
Normally, however, this series still is good to read, with a reasonable amount of suspense, action and plot.
Repetitious, dull at times, even the action sequences were repeats of each other, but the biggest disappointment was the limp ending - after spending nearly 400 pages building up to a final confrontation, it was all over in 2 unsatisfying pages.
Very weak, will have to avoid this series for a while.
After a few so-so books, Lee Child is back in the game and Reacher is back to form! THE MIDNIGHT LINE is one of the best in the series. It offers a good plot with building suspense and a totally satisfying denouement. It enlightens readers on the plight of people with serious physical injuries in need of pain medication and the insidious nature of pharmaceutical drug trafficking.
Jack ReacherIt's always best to start with book 22 of a series.
That way, the series can properly age like a fine wine.
In any event, knowing absolutely nothing about the series, not even whether it was a mystery, a horror story, or an espionage thriller, it's here that I decided to start.
Jack Reacher, if you like me have no idea, is an ex-Army MP, who maintains a rootless, wandering existence, often trying to do the honorable thing.
He has hands the size of basketballs and is often referred to as the Incredible Hulk or Bigfoot.
Wanderer Jack Reacher finds a tiny West Point class ring in a pawn shop, far too small even to slip on his pinky, and decides its owner must be in trouble.
He calls West Point, eventually getting to the "supe," who after checking Jack's record as a distinguished member of the 110th military police, helps him.
Jack bullies the pawn shop owner, and then beats up a small group of bikers who finger a South Dakota criminal, who sends him to nowhere, Wyoming.
Along the way, Jack finds a P.I. and his client, who are seeking the same person, who does not want to be found.
