https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/380645.I_Saw_Esau
As a child I appreciated the scandalous nature of the rhymes and illustrations; as a grown-up I love reading about the sources, many of which are detailed by the editor. All in all, though inappropriate for younger children (I got in trouble one year at Thanksgiving for saying grace from it), I credit it as a huge influence on my sense of humor and appreciation for history, and it's still one of my most favorite books of all time. There's something smart about it, in spite of its raunchiness.
Bedtime reading to the Littlies was a good excuse to read this over a few nights (and catchup on the footnotes once they were settled(!)The text of book is quite old and this edition is really for celebrating Sendak's illustrations...
and this is the reason I bought it.The rhymes and sayings are a good, well structured collection, being a little bit of everything from the lore of children and folk rhymes.
In many ways you wish the footnotes were more informative but, this is not the job of this edition and Opie's more extensive notes can be found elsewhere.
Besides, as said before this is really for Sendak's illustrations; a delight, a treasure.
The only reason I picked up this book was because Mom had been trying to recall the jump rope chants from her childhood.
Gruesome, but it would appeal to many, I'm sure.Here's one with historical significance:Thomas a Didymus, hard of belief, Sold his wife for a pound of beef; ...The note at the end reads,Wife selling was a recognized custom as late as the beginning of the 19th century.
It was, in fact, a poor man's form of divorce, ...Dad started recalling similar chants that he remembered from childhood -- ones I hadn't heard him say before.
These are rhymes for children, but they are not the sanitized versions you might find in a recently published book. The illustrations by Maurice Sendak complement the rhymes well. The end notes are as interesting as the poems!
Historically, socially important collection. Fun for the adult to read and perhaps recall their own school days. NOT a book to read to young children --- some chants, rhymes are rather brutal and/or have "bad words" and Mr. Sendek's delightful illustrations are rather risque occasionally.
Check out the reviews on goodreads- the best and most interesting I have seen for any book. A marvel for adults but lots of fun for children. You have to work though to find the appropriate rhyme - which will always be accompanied by a wonderful Sendak illustration.
I have always loved the rhymes of childhood and wondered how they began. This little book is a sweet collection that begins to touch on that. I found it lacking a little though, for the depths I wanted. For a child, the level is perfect! Illustrations by Sendak are well matched and delightful.
A wonderful edition. Be aware of some nudity if you’re gifting this book 😉
Maurice Sendak is brilliant but his illustrations did not add to the text for I saw Esau.
Charming ephemera!
I am not certain whereupon this book came.
Esau would have been something to have captured my attention.Nevertheless, during the Great Decluttering I came across this and noted that Maurice Sendak illustrated this.
Truly, fun stuff here.The two that stood out were:#146Postman, Postman, at the gate,Will you take this to my date?Postman, Postman, for a laugh, Do the tango up the path.Roses are red,Violets are blue, The shorter the skirtThe better the view.Roses are red,Cabbages are green,If my face is funny,Yours is a scream.#1Here we are, back again!Lots of work and lots of pain.I suppose I shouldn't use the last one as a welcoming call to my students in September.
I came across this book when browsing in State College's Webster's Bookstore and Cafe.
I have never even heard about the book, which doesn't matter.
Nearly everything Sendak has ever worked on has possessed some type of horror--for children and adults, alike.And who is Esau (what a great name, huh?)?
Well, we know he kissed Kate and that she saw that I saw Esau.
And Esau saw, as well.That, in a nut shell, envelopes the very broad premise throughout the whole "schoolchild's pocket book".
Observation, fear, silliness, and query.I liked the book.
Esau up to you.
Thank you, Tricia Douglas, for yet another wonderful Childrens' Lit book rec!!!!
I absolutely loved it, and the illustrations by Maurice Sendak (another of our favorites) made it even more enticing and SPECIAL!
It was written by a husband/wife team in 1947 after their first child was born as a "recognition of the particular genus of rhymes that belongs to schoolchildren".
I would love to just never return this book to the library, but I will try to find it in a more legit manner :)!
The Maurice Sendak illustrated version was first published in 1992 so I am hopeful!
Interesting to see what qualified as "funny" or "clever" at one time or another!
Such as #59: Moses was a holy man,Children he had seven,He thought he'd hire a donkey cartAnd drive them all to heaven.On the road he lost his way,He thought he knew it well,He overturned the donkey cartAnd landed them in ----or #86Adam and Eve and Pinch-meWent down to the river to bathe;Adam and Eve were drowned,Who'd you think was saved?Then again it does have #45:Moses supposes his toes are roses,But Moses supposes erroneously.For Moses he knowses his toeses aren't roses,As Moses supposes his toeses to be.
This is one of those books that I picked up, years before my son was expected, just because the cover amused me.
It helped greatly that Maurice Sendak was the illustrator, but it is an amusing book.
I don't want to give too much away, but in the introduction Iona Opie explains how this book came into being.
She says the rhymes contained "were clearly not the rhymes that a grandmother might sing to a grandchild on her knee".
However, for the past two Aprils, I have been choosing some rhymes out of this book to read to my toddler son for National Poetry Month.
Can you go wrong with this group at work?
The Opies AND Sendak?
This collection of sing songy rhymes and ditties is fascinating on many levels.
I started chanting right along with many of them, instantly transported back to the playground at my elementary school.
I remember thinking some of these were "new" ("Early in the morning in the middle of the night...."), but lo and behold--they've been around for centuries!
These might not all be rhymes you wish to teach your children, but most children will learn many of them on their own.
I think grown-ups will enjoy this collection more than most children.
lovely illustrations by Sendak of course plus the nursery rhymes, chants with a little history pulled in and variations noted over time.
Because of the illustrations this book is suitable for children to be read to.
It's a small book (just over 5" x 7"), though a bit thick, so easy for children and the paper is heavy.
even before they could read simply because Sendak's illustrations tell so many interesting little stories.
There's also a forward by Iona that gives the story of how the book came to be and how Sendak got involved to do the illustrating...
I found this to be a neat collection of schoolyard poetry but at most I would find it interesting to reminisce over. The rhymes are not the same on every playground, so most were minimally similar to anything I could relate to.Also, each piece seemed like it was just listed carelessly. And with the starting and stopping of so many new ideas it was easy to loose interest in the book.I cannot imagine a child enjoying this. They may find humor in the insults or taunts, but I'm sure they are creative enough to formulate them by their own devices.
Slightly dated but I liked it.
There were some really fun poems in here (and play on words--I really liked those for some reason) but the star of the show is Sendak's illustrations.
Holy crap are they amazing in the most weirdest sense; there are some real "wth" pictures that are worth looking at for example, the picture that goes with poem number 85--"I one my mother" is disturbingly hilarious.
It's an 8 cell depiction of a baby going from crying to breastfeeding to boob devouring, to mom eating ("I eight my mother"), to fat baby.
It makes no sense, but it is fantastic.
A large collections of rhymes, riddles, chants, tongue-twisters, and jeers, some silly, some naughty, some nasty, some nice and all collected by Peter and Iona Opie, with suitably silly, naughty, nasty, and nice illustrations in color by Maurice Sendak. I found the humor hit and miss and missive, but Sendak's art always expressive.
A strange collection of childish rhymes and couplets, arranged under titles like Nonsense, Insults, Characters, and Retaliation. They have a very old fashioned sound to them; it's hard to imagine any child using these in the last fifty years, at least not American children! The weird illustrations by Sendak are fascinating and often creepy. While some are innocent, a lot are very rude.
This is a fantastic book of children's poetry for parents or teachers who don't mind something a bit unconventional. It is a lighthearted, at times whimsically morbid collection of rhymes and chants from days past. (Full page poem about the cat who urped on the rug and then ate it? Rhyming threats of physical violence against anyone who harms a book? Brilliance!)
A great weird batch. Some more kid appropriate than others. Depends on the age I would guess. Sort of the perfect collection on some level. Kind of like the unedited Grimm. Creepy. Inappropriately appropriate. I like popping through them and reading random ones to my grade school boys. Sendak really hits too close to the text on more than one creepy occasion.
At work there is a Maurice Sendak display. I thought this might work since all the illustrations were his...The rhymes might belong to children but some of the illustrations could be questionable. Some of the rhymes remind me of childhood and those that I knew sometimes had different stanzas or there were extra lines. Enjoyed it!
This book is on the bibliography of books challenged, restricted, removed or banned in 2007-2008 put out by Robert P. Doyle and the American Library Association. More info at http://www.ila.org/pdf/2008banned.pdf
This is a wonderful collection of rhymes, riddles and poems from schoolchildren of old. They are a hilarious read for anyone who would appreciate a good laugh and are always quotable. The collection is wide-ranging and will bring a smile or a chuckle to anyone who reads it.
This is a very strange collection of children's sayings that is not rated G. Sendak's drawings can be really creepy sometimes.Some sayings you may recognize. There are notes in the back for further explanation.
More of a rhyme book, some I remember from my school days, others seem to come from a much earlier date. I love the illustrations. Many are connected to school life: stining reply, comic complaints, and just clever rhymes to know by heart.
My grandfather gave me this book a few years ago and I rediscovered it the other day while cleaning out the shelves. It has nice classic short traditional rhymes. And some, um, kind of bawdy ones. The Sendak drawings are nice.
A collection of childhood rhymes and poems that I remember growing up, but some I'd never heard of before. This was a cute little collection, with illustrations really making some of the rhymes even better.
