https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20170404-station-eleven
"Survival is insufficient".Star Trek: VoyagerNovels whose premise strips away the world as we know it can be tricky territory.
Emily St. John Mandel has written something very much akin to a perfect book.
I wanted to tell everyone about it because it still radiates softly in the background of my days and haunts me with its delicate characters and existentialist essence.
Survival is insufficient because to be fully alive, one needs to make choices that define one's character and belonging in the world.
The first two volumes of a mysterious comic book.
Adult speculative fictionEven since reading The Stand by Stephen King when I was a kid, I’ve had a soft spot for apocalyptic plagues that wipe out humanity.
I mean in fiction, of course.
We jump back and forth in time, watching how his life influenced what will happen to our band of survivors.If you’re a fan of the TV series The Last Ship or books like The Stand, you may enjoy the premise and the way St. John-Mandel evokes a world without the trappings of modern civilization.
I hope this means a sequel is in the works .
I don't know if you will like this book.
Some of the chapters take place after the apocalypse, and some take place before, but it doesn't change the tone — the characters' personal worlds are under duress in both timelines.I take back what I said about the jacket copy being true, by the way.
I couldn't put this book down, but that is not the same as being suspenseful.
Like I said, it's a book of theme, not story.
Station Eleven follows a few central characters faithfully enough to satisfy my need for a human thread, but it might not be enough for those who strongly prefer plot-driven novels.
the story of the people who have touched our lives in unexpected ways, an echoing world in which Hell is the absence of the people you long for, where the little things - or the memories of them - matter the most.arthur leander is a famous hollywood actor with three ex-wives, a son he never sees, a lover, a friend who knew him when, and various people to whom he has been kind, careless, or otherwise meaningful, including a little girl who watches him die beside her onstage, and the paparazzo turned paramedic who tried to save his life.
”Hell is the absence of the people you long for.”When the Georgia Flu sweeps around the world killing 99.6% of the population there were suddenly...
It so happens that the day before the world ends Arthur Leander, the famous movie actor, is playing a part in King Lear on the stage in Toronto.
Kirsten is a child actress in the play and for a very short period of time she will think this is the worst day of her life.
Emily St. John Mandel blends the future and the past together seamlessly around the life of Arthur Leander and how he continues to live in the mind of his young friend Kirsten.
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/  “The thing with the new world is it’s just horrifically short on elegance.” Everyone loved this book. I’m talking EVERYONE. I have 1 – yep ONE – friend or person I follow on Goodreads who gave it less than 3 Stars. In order to prove how much of an idiot I am and that no one should take my opinion seriously, I will super giffify this review. Station Eleven begins with the story of Arthur, who passes away on stage while performing King
Station Eleven begins with the story of Arthur, who passes away on stage while performing King Lear, and of Jeevan, the man who tried to resuscitate Arthur, and of Kirsten, a child actress who was also in the play and witnesses Arthur’s death.
I like my end of the world stories to grab me by the balls and not let go until I’ve become a complete germaphobe who is terrified to leave the house for a few days after reading ; ) Station Eleven left me with a reaction kind of like this .
A wonderful story about the resilience of people.
I don't know why it bothers me so that I thought this book was just ok.
So many of my GR friends have embraced this Station Eleven and have shouted its praises from the rooftop.
I struggled through the first 80 pages, didn't want to throw it under the couch, but wasn't finding myself engaged.
The only character I really liked was Miranda.
I love stories about pandemics but was surprised that I wasn't cheering for these characters to survive.
I have been as positive as I can be in regards to my feelings about Station Eleven.
Would I try another of Mandel's books?
Until I someday write a longer review (you never know, it could happen), I’ll just say this: I sat down intending to read about 50 pages tonight and wound up reading 200. I also completely forgot the world around me existed for a few hours, and that is the highest praise I can personally give any book.
The novel has as its fulcrum two events – a performance of King Lear immediately before the pandemic arrives, when Arthur Leander has a fatal heart attack on stage and a dinner party when Miranda, Arthur’s first wife and the creator of the Station Eleven comic, first realises her husband is betraying her.
It’s no accident that Emily St. John Mandel opens her haunting new novel with a scene from King Lear, who ends up mad and blind but clear as a bell.
In the opening pages, renowned actor Arthur Leander dies while performing King Lear.
They live in the Undersea, an interlined network of vast fallout shelters under Station Eleven’s oceans.”Station Eleven is a terrifying, haunting, and stunning book that speaks eloquently on many key themes: survival during devastating times, our ephemeral existence and the fleeting nature of fame compared to the endurance of art.
This was a lovely, elevated apocalypse story that was very touching. The integration of acting and Hollywood world was really interesting, I'm sure even moreso to someone who isn't in "the biz." If you want a dose of great storytelling with your post-disaster wasteland fiction, this is a book for you!
Milestone achieved = Review #200 within one year six months of joining Goodreads!Thought-provoking, haunting, and atmospheric.Station Eleven is an adult post apocalyptic/dystopian novel written by Emily St. John Mandel and I’m actually quite surprised by how enjoyable it was, especially considering that I bought this book on a whim two days ago without knowing anything about it whatsoever.
This is a slow paced book and even though it’s a post-apocalyptic book, the majority of the story-line centered pretty much on the characters’ lives before and after the collapse of civilization.
One of my favorite aspects of the book is the exploration of different types of destruction.In the past sequences, we read about a group of people who are suffering in a variety of different ways; their situations have a thread of commonality in that they all could be labeled as "self-destructive." In the present, characters deal with the aftermath of a much larger & unstoppable form of destruction by way of the virus.
Stories that contain superbly written characters & eloquent conclusions about what it means to survive when it feels like fate has other plans for you.This review and other reviews of mine can be found on Book Nest!

An exceptionally well rendered portrait of Elvis on a magnificent black velvet background.Station Eleven, Emily St. John Mandel’s 2014 novel is the "Velvet Elvis" of post-apocalyptic books, a surprisingly different form than usual with a style all its own.“Post-apocalyptic literary science fiction” was one way I have heard it described, and also “pastoral science fiction” and I here adopt both descriptions.
Mandel has certainly softened the Mad Max edges off her story and provided a ponderous, meandering and thoughtful account of a world with a lot less people.Telling the story before and after a global pandemic, many readers will liken this to Stephen King’s 1978 classic The Stand, as here the culprit is the Georgian flu which kills in hours not days.
‘we travelled so far and your friendship meant everything. it was very difficult, but there were moments of beauty. everything ends. i am not afraid.’  wow wow wow. this book. this was quite unlike any other post-apocalyptic story i have ever read before. this didnt focus on the flu that eradicated 99% of earths population. this didnt go into detail about the origin of the disease or the worldwide attempt to contain it. the purpose of the book wasnt to explore the collapse of the world as we kn
but what makes this book so unique was how each character was connected.
all strangers at one point, and at other times not, this story perfectly portrayed the interconnectivity of humanity and the lengths people will go to retain that connection.
because without the choices we make to define ourselves in a time that seems like the end, without living with meaning, are we even human?
so if you are looking for an unhurried, but captivating, story about the quiet strength of people, this is the only book you will ever need.
Station Eleven is the story of those affected by this mass outbreak and how they are somehow all connected in ways that transcend this great tragedy.If I hadn't been holding the book in my hand and knew from looking at it that I was at the end, I would have thought I had missed something.
Where some books written in this way denote the change in narrator at the beginning of a section or chapter, this one just picks up and you, as the reader, are left to figure out which story line we are looking at now.
not quite a whole, but more a sort of web, or network.' Most of this is true of Station Eleven, except that it isn't structured as short stories (the post-pandemic narrative runs through the book and is interspersed with flashbacks), but each character's story could, I think, be taken out and read as a short story on its own.
For me, this incredibly enjoyable novel is a perfect blend of literary and genre fiction, the sort of story I would love to read more of: intelligent, elegant, original, with both plot and character realised beautifully.
Station Eleven then uses Arthur as the center of a web of connections that we learn from the people in his life before, during and after the disease wipes out the world as we know it.
Mandel writes this as if a flu with a near 100% mortality rate would essentially wipe out all the accumulated knowledge and technical ability of the survivors and takes everyone back to an almost medieval way of life.It’s weird that everything has been so ransacked just fifteen years later because the math doesn’t seem right there.
The sort of book you should attend a midnight party at your local bookstore to get your hands on a copy.
The sort of book you should call in sick to work the day you buy, because you won't want to stop reading it.
These graphic novels, beautifully illustrated and with the story of a distant failing space society, were the most evocative sections of the book.
This is a beautiful, gripping novel told by a masterful hand.
It starts with a performance of King Lear, the lead actor, Arthur Leander dies onstage and from then begins the epidemic to end all epidemics.
Kirsten is one of the Symphony, who as a young girl actually witnessed Arthur’s death, but remembers very little of the world before the collapse.
We meet Jeevan, the paramedic who tried to save Arthur, and follow his journey, as well as Arthur’s best friend Clarke.
All these characters face the same societal collapse and we see their struggles as they lose loved ones, and lose the world they once knew forever.
But it isn’t a world without hope, as these characters constantly prove.
What a beautiful, beautiful book. I loved every moment and I was captivated the whole time. It was unlike anything I've ever read before!Reread March of 2017Still a forever fave. It's so beautifully written and makes you *think* so much. Excited to discuss for book club tonight!
it would be important to have skill with a knife.I appreciate the tender humanism at the novel's core.I appreciate the focus on the arts, on how art in all of its forms is central to expression and to civilization.despite the focus on art, the reader never sees much of The Traveling Symphony's actual performances.
a comic book that brings out the best and worst in people, that is central to two women's lives, that is an allegory for the world in the book.connectivity between people, connections radiating out from one man, people linked to each other who are scattered across the globe, unaware of their connections.the key character is fascinating despite himself.
it's interesting how this central character of the novel only appears in the past.
Now I find myself struggling to pick up the pieces and recreate what was the best I can, without cannibals chasing me.The story begins at the Elgin Theatre in Toronto, where a fading film star named Arthur Leander holds stage as the lead in King Lear.
It falls on Clark to phone each of Arthur's ex-wives, beginning with Miranda Carroll, a shipping company executive currently working in Malaysia.Mandel slips back from the edge of the apocalypse to introduce us to Arthur as a young man in New York.
Hello, HBO. My name is Station Eleven, and I would make an awesome miniseries. I'm missing one of my stars because I didn't spend quite enough time on Jeevan in the last third, and because there was so little explanation of the first, scariest (i.e. most thrilling) year, but I am otherwise damn near perfect and totally addictive and it's sad that I'm over and done. Sequel, sequel, seeequel, seeeeeequel!(Margaret Atwood totally end of the world spoiled me.)
Station Eleven is a gem amongst the works of dystopian fiction.
Jumping back and forth from different time frames can be unsettling but it worked perfectly well here.I also thought of how clever it was of St. John Mandel to use a small piece of art such as a graphic novel and embed it to the storyline.
I loved how it endured through the years and how it acted as a nexus for the characters.I went into this book thinking it would have a heavy science fiction theme but boy was I wrong.
Loss and hope both permeate this bittersweet tale of a post-apocalypic world.The story follows several different characters both before and after the disastrous epidemic: Miranda, the artist who creates the titular Station Eleven series of graphic art books, a symbol of the twilight world the survivors find themselves inhabiting.
But, of course, it's too late, for him and almost everyone else.But Arthur does pass on two copies of the Station Eleven comic books given to him by his first wife, to two children who will survive the epidemic.
i am Overwhelmed by Beauty and Meaning and Good Things and there is simply no way i can really rate this at this time, let alone review it.review (& final rating) to come, when i've redeveloped some semblance of personhood----------------honestly can't believe i've waited so long to read a book with a cover this pretty
His craft is only discussed inso far as to ruminate on celebrity (actors sacrifice privacy, paparazzi are opportunist scum, the money and glamour are ultimately unfulfilling: nothing illuminating here)Miranda lives with some dude for a few years, wakes up one day decides to move in with a movie star she bed the night before and then becomes, apropos of no sort of instruction or schooling, based on a temp job, a shipping magnate (but only after discovering the right pair of shoes) and writes and draws in her spare time a graphic novel she never intends to publish, and most frustratingly, the author and nearly every character continually blur the distinction between comic *book* and comic *strip*.
