https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/84777.City_of_Bones
Harry Bosch responds, climbs the hill where the dog had been playing, and discovers the bones of a child that had been buried in a shallow grave more than twenty years earlier.An autopsy reveals that the boy had been murdered, but there are precious few clues apart from the bones themselves.
One of the particular joys of this book lies in the minor characters, beginning with the doctor whose dog discovers the bones, all of whom are very well-drawn and unusually interesting.
While most people greeted the day with a sense of hope and renewal, there were those who saw it as a good day to die, some — like the old lady — not realizing their mistake until it was too late.THE BLURB: Detective Harry Bosch tears open a 20-year-old murder case - with an explosive ending that leave all Bosch fans hungrily awaiting the next instalment.When the bones of a twelve-year-old boy are found scattered in the Hollywood Hills, Harry Bosch is drawn into a case that brings up the darkest memories from his own haunted past.
In City of Bones, Connelly leaves Bosch at a crossroads in his life.
This is the eighth book in the Harry Bosch series and the one I liked the least so far.
I still enjoyed it and found it a quick easy read but it lacked a certain something.
I know I was uncomfortable in all the scenes involving Brasher who I found I could not like at all.
There was a lot of description of police procedure which I enjoy but which can also drag a bit when there is too much.
So for me not the most successful book in the series but still eminently readable!
I definitely enjoyed "City of Bones." I really enjoyed this look at what it was that caused Harry Bosch to retire from the LAPD.
When it becomes clear they are looking at human remains, Bosch is thrown into a high profile case that the LAPD just wants closed and doesn't seem to care about the truth.
Besides the high pressure case, we also have Bosch undertaking another romance in this one that I liked.
When Bosch gets involved with a rookie cop named Julia Brasher, it felt like the first time in a while we had him connect with someone.The writing was great and I couldn't put this book down.
But when the almost complete skeleton of a young boy was brought to the surface; and learning the bones had been in the ground for twenty years, Bosch was determined to discover the identity of the bones, and bring the perpetrator to justice.Bosch and his partner Detective Jerry Edgar dug deeply – unable to be spared for too long on such a cold case, they worked the clock around.
And the secrets they began bringing to the surface chilled them both.
What a brilliant instalment in the Harry Bosch series - #8 – and it’s been on my TBR for over 4 years!
Perhaps not stories as much as solutions to the case, in which Connelly has the reader (and Bosch) sure that the killer is Mr. X, only to find out that new evidence points to Ms. Y.
Connelly continues to build a strong emotional foundation for his best character, Harry Bosch, and examines the continually flickering romances that seem to cross his path while he works for the LAPD.
I would highly recommend the book, but, of course, read the series in order to get the true feel of character development.Where will you take us next, Michael Connelly?
I have such mixed feelings about this story.
He's certain it's human and he turns out to be right, prompting the start of what ends up being a very cold case.
I loved the forensics aspect of the story, along with the procedurals.
Nobody does it better than Harry and I enjoy his investigative style.
There are other personal situations that impact the investigation and Harry's career that I found troubling.
The ending left me in a weird space but if I'm honest, it was true to the character.
Another new narrator that just didn't come close to capturing Harry.
A solid mystery featuring my favorite lone wolf, Harry Bosch. Unfortunately it dragged for me, but not because of anything Connelly did or didn’t do, but because most of this book was well-covered in the third season of the Amazon series. Because TV manages to change up even the best of storylines, there were a few surprises. Most notable the ending. I didn’t see that coming but no doubt Bosch will find new ways to annoy the LAPD leadership.
Having only recently read Michael Connelly for the first time, he has quickly became one of my favourite authors and I can’t think of an author in this genre who writes better crime fiction than this.
The politics in policing in crime fiction has always made me feel quite sick and it definitely did here when Bosch’s superiors once again make some shocking decisions.
There can’t be many people left who haven’t discovered the sheer brilliance of Connelly and Bosch for themselves but if there is, then I cannot recommend these books more highly.
This novel seems to come in the middle of Michael Connelly's series featuring Los Angeles detective Harry Bosch.
There are a few standard mystery tropisms, but also some very nice touches, particularly the obligation that Harry lays upon the dead boy's mother at the end of the novel.
As with all good crime-solving heroes, Harry Bosch has a stubborness about him that makes him a top detective, but also makes it difficult for others to work with him, even when he's trying to treat them well.
Good series! crime thriller and a murder mystery in the plot...nice action and many tense moments but in the end it's still a really good series M.Connelly keep writing (paperback!)
Harry Bosch has one of his most puzzling cases yet.
The skeleton of a 12 year old boy has been found in a shallow grave on a hillside.
Not only must Harry find the identity of this boy murdered 20-30 years ago but he must also find the killer.
Harry follows a few false leads as he tries to match the evidence from what he knows of the boys life and his friends and family and it comes to look as if it may remain a cold case.
Harry also has some serious thinking to do about his future and where he might be heading.This is one of the best Harry Bosch cases I have read to date.
This storyline is one that was featured in the show (it's all out of order, don't worry about crossover ruination - even having seen it, I wasn't spoiled on the story) and it reads, thankfully, just as easy as watching it, but with the added benefit of being somewhat in Harry's thought process.
I like that he isn't just looking to fit any old piece into the puzzle...
It was also nice to see Jerry stepping up a bit more in this story.
Often, it seems like Harry carries the case and the weight on his own, and just delegates tasks to Jerry.
Another outstanding work from Michael Connelly ... Bosch is an interesting complex character whose adventures keep the pages turning
About halfway through the 2 hour drive to my in-laws' house, I realized that I had forgotten to bring a book or 2.
I figured I would find something to read at their house.
It follows Hieronymus Bosch, a Hollywood detective who kind of brings to mind a slightly less jaded version of Bruce Willis' character in The Last Boyscout.
The case he is working is actually interesting, but it kind of peters out once they start figuring things out-and honestly, I thought the whole thing, overall, was a bit anticlimactic.
Initially the murder case Harry has to work didn’t pull me in, the discovery of the bones of a child which had been buried in the hills some 30 years before by a dog just didn’t incite excitement for me.
When will I learn never to doubt Michael Connelly!With the case been effectively a cold case you always wonder how police look into these and a way in which they will dig up leads for a murder from 30 years ago.
As a series, I highly recommend it showing the leg work and obstacles the LA police had/have to face.
The title of Michael Connelly’s eighth book to feature his hero-detective Harry Bosch, “City of Bones”, refers to a term used by crime scene investigators to describe the sight of an old crime scene, where the body has deteriorated down to the bones.
Oftentimes nature will scatter bones throughout a general area, especially if the grave is a shallow one, and the resultant grid that CSI forms is dubbed a “city of bones”.The title has another, more metaphorical, meaning, as well.
Everyone has skeletons in the closet.When a dog brings his owner a human bone back from the Hollywood Hills, Detective Bosch is called to the scene.
Definitely a memorable book.This series really needs to be read as part of the chronology of Connelly's published works, not just in the series order.
Instead of putting them all here, I'll just put in up to this point & the next book.Connelly, Michael - Reading Order01 - The Black Echo (Harry Bosch #1), 199202 - The Black Ice (Harry Bosch #2), 199303 - The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch #3), 199404 - The Last Coyote(Harry Bosch #4), 199505 - The Poet (Jack McEvoy #1), (1996)06 - Trunk Music (Harry Bosch #5), 199707 - Blood Work (Terry McCaleb #1), 199808 - Angels Flight (Harry Bosch #6), 199909 - Void Moon (Cassie Black #1) (2000)10 - A Darkness More Than Night (Harry Bosch #7, also Terry McCaleb #2), 200111 - City Of Bones (Harry Bosch #8), 200212 - Lost Light (Harry Bosch #9), 2003
The police are called when a dog brings home a human bone after wandering the Hollywood Hills.
When the area is searched, a shallow grave containing more bones is found.
Detective Harry Bosch investigates the nearly twenty year old murder of a teenage boy.
He must discover the identity of the child, along with who killed him.
There are only a few clues to the case, but Harry and his partner, Jerry Edgar, want to close the case on this one.This is a solid mystery in the Harry Bosch series.
I wasn't sure who killed the boy, and was surprised when Harry uncovered the culprit.
Making my way through the series. I knew a great deal of this story as it is one of the cases that the Amazon Bosch series is based on. There are some differences which I really liked. These variations from the TV production made the book well worth reading. As always an enjoyable read.
Wow!City of Bones is an amazing Bosch novel. I knew the ending - sort of - since I have seen season 1 of the TV series but this book still held my attention right till the end. An intriguing mystery, murky organizational politics, tons of red herrings - all of them come together to make this one of the best detective fiction stories ever.
Pretty decent, quick read. A cold case involving the murder of a young boy twenty years earlier. Always have a tough time reading about abused kids. Quite a few twists and turns before the end. 3 Stars for City of Bones2017: The Amazon series "Bosch" has this book as the first season's story. The series is exactly how I pictured Harry Bosch. Excellent!
Another fine police procedural in the Harry Bosch series. Michael Connelly writes these so well that the reader is pulled in for the entertaining ride forward from the first page. This one is centered on a cold case involving the murder of a child that is discovered 20+ years after the event. A long, zig-zagging investigation follows with the usual dead ends, conflicts with authority, and interesting characters on board. Also included is a personal tragedy for Bosch causing a possible major mid-life crisis. Classic Harry Bosch at his best.
If you're into Noir than this TV series is a must see.Connelly has a knack for writing suspenseful tales that take quite a few twists and turns before being resolved with a stellar Who-Done-It that has most readers guessing till the very end (at least in his earlier books).Heironymous (Harry) Bosch, the hero in this series, is named after a Renaissance painter who specialized in earthly sins, debauchery, fanciful and gruesome visions of hell, violent consequences from high above if not detailed looks at the tortures reserved for earthly residents.
[...]Compare that to the later books in the series where we find a Harry Bosch notably mellower in his older age, where we find endings easily guessed at, where procedure begins to trump a superb plot.
Harry Bosch doesn’t take the call about a human bone serious at first, but this time it turns out that a bone from a human skeleton has been found in a Hollywood neighborhood.
The mystery’s still okay, but it’s not one of the better books by Michael Connelly.
The characters are still strong, however, and much of what happens is working on Bosch, although I didn’t realize just how much character development we were getting until I reached the end of the book.
Average Michael Connelly is still enjoyable, and I’m definitely anxious to find out what happens to Bosch next.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
Yes, I see this won or was nominated for all sorts of awards back in 2003, but I found it the least impressive of the Harry Bosch novels, so far.Working on a case involving some bones found on a hill - bones of a young boy - Harry works his way through the sparse amount of detail, or clues, to learn who this boy was, how he died and who was responsible.
It's a reasonable trope, which often can work out to a very interesting and complex story, but this one just fell flat.

Well again GR lost my info. When will I ever learn to do a Word doc then cut and paste?That said, we'll leave it at I really enjoyed this book and look forward to continuing on with the series.
City of Bones4 StarsIt is a quiet New Years until the call comes in about the discovery of human remains in the Hollywood Hills.
While the Harry Bosch books are enjoyable reads, Connelly's writing tends toward the philosophical and often becomes bogged down with Harry's constant psychological musings.
That said, City of Bones breaks from this mold as the mystery develops at a solid pace.
It is evident throughout the series that this aspect of Connelly's writing is very poor, and he should stick to the investigations and leave the romance to the experts.
In sum, Harry is a very appealing character and the procedural aspects of the investigation are excellent.
I tend to leave a lot of time in between reading Bosch books.
I'm always ready to pick up another mystery novel over a Bosch book.
I have to be fully engaged in the novel or else I'll miss something.Surprisingly the 8th novel in the series, City of Bones, was a quick read that had me fully engaged.
While working on New Year's Day, Bosch gets a call saying that a dog has dug up a bone and it is believed to be human.
I found that the pace was quick and there wasn't much down time for Bosch.
