https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9858081-the-code-of-the-woosters
A classic piece of Wodehouse silliness, involving Bertie Wooster, his formidable Aunt Dahlia and (of course) Jeeves in a scheme to steal an 18th century cow-creamer during a weekend party at an English country house. Written in 1939, it also features a would-be fascist dictator of England named Spode, head of an organization called "The Black Shorts" (by the time he started his movement, the shirts had already been taken). Laugh-out-loud funny. Highly recommended.
Also, if you have a cow creamer, guard it with your life.The 2012 re-read:Aunt Dahlia dispatches Bertie to Totleigh Towers to purlorn a silver cow creamer coveted by his uncle Tom from Sir Watkyn Basset.
Unfortunately, Bertie has his work cut out for him in the form of Stiffy Byng and Madeline Basset.
Can Bertie escape with the cow creamer without winding up married to either woman?This is my second reading of Code of the Woosters and I can definitely say there is a reason I've been recommending it to people for the better part of a decade.
Bertie's job is to get into all kind of absurd and improbable (from the normal logic point of view) situations arising from his noble attempts to help his countless aunts and friends and Jeeves' job is to get him out of yet another trouble using some truly ingenious tricks.
Once again before this read I was only familiar with the very first book of the series which was an anthology of the short stories, but I think that the short story format works much better for Bertie Wooster and Jeeves.
Oh my god this is so, so, so funny. I was discussing Wodehouse with someone yesterday and, as he put it, "There are passages that you want to chase people around the house with, saying, 'Wait! Wait! Just listen to this bit!'" Haven't laughed so hard in a good long while. God, but I love Wodehouse.
Gussie (Augustus) Fink-Nottle, is getting married, the shy, newt lover, (men need silly hobbies, to keep sane), to lovely Madeline Bassett, an unlikely pair, daughter of Sir Watkyn Bassett.
By Gussie and Madeline, Sir Watkyn, has come into quite a lot of money, inherited, he says, but Bertie, is not quite so sure.
Aunt Dahlia, still needs Wooster to steal, the cow-creamer, from Bassett, for her husband, Tom, some women will never be discouraged.
Besides Sir Watkyn, wants to take Anatole, the best cook in the United Kingdom, from the inflamed Aunt Dahlia (Wooster shudders)!
For me at least, The Code of the Woosters contains some of my favorite scenes and some of Wodehouse's most memorable characters.
Herein his hero Bertie Wooster is at his daffiest, unable to accomplish the simplest of tasks, berating a cow creamer, without getting himself in thick soup.
To go back to my original statement...The Code of the Woosters, while a good 'un, is not a vast departure from the normal.
Book after book Wodehouse churned out pretty much the same story.
If you want to give Wodehouse a go, The Code of the Woosters is the stuff to give the troops!
He knew his onions."Long have I resisted the fatal charm of P.G. Wodehouse.
That was until, of course, The Code of the Woosters and I crossed paths.
"One doesn't want to make a song and dance about one's ancient lineage, of course, but after all the Woosters did come over with the conqueror and were extremely pally with him."I am afraid I have become a fan and will be keeping my eyes well and truly peeled for more Jeeves in Wooster in the future.
Heartily recommend this instalment to those who think they don't like P.G. Wodehouse.
The comical and cleverly coined style made this one a fun read, even if the plot only left behind a three-star impression.I finally see where the "Jeeves" came from - and I approve.
Fun times!It’s now gotten my attention that this is the third interesting story I’ve read about this form of relationship, and I’ve enjoyed all three.
With this book it carried on a bit too much for my nerves, so it wasn’t all fun and games, but still a classic worth reading.
most indians who read english stumble upon his works sooner or later-more so, I dare say, than the english themselves.I've always maintained that if a Wodehouse book cannot lift your spirits, you must be pretty close to suicide.Amazing plots, memorable characters and superb prose.
His stories are full of estranged lovers, funny misunderstandings, meddlesome aunts, young curates ambitious vicars and absent minded uncles and an absolutely convoluted plot.Bertram Wilberforce Wooster and his "Gentleman's personal gentleman"-the incomparable Reginald Jeeves will remain of of the most memorable characters in literature.Quotes like this will be peppered throughout the book"It was a confusion of ideas between him and one of the lions he was hunting in Kenya that had caused A.
That is not overstating it, Jeeves?""No, sir."P.G. Wodehouse was an English writer whose career spanned over seventy years and whose work included almost 100 novels, numerous short stories, 15 plays and 250 lyrics for some thirty musical comedies.
I guess that makes me more of a Bertie than a Jeeves.Many of his works include recurring settings and characters.
One such set of characters, Bertram Wooster and his clever butler Jeeves, are at the heart of "The Code of the Woosters." "Bertie" is an old school English bachelor who rubs elbows with other upper-class British socialites.
e. marriage to Madeline Basset who thinks that the stars are God's daisy chain and every time a fairy sheds a tear, a star is born) at the last moment by Jeeves, finds himself ensconced in the country estate of the girl's father along with Gussie Fink-Nottle, her fiancée and Roderick Spode (the leader of a fascist organisation built on the lines of a Patton tank), who is also in love with Madeline.
নিজে লেখক হওয়ায় সাধারণত অনয কোনও সমসাময়িক লেখক/অনুবাদকের বইয়ের রিভিউ লিখি না আমি। কিনতু মাঝে মাঝে কিছু বই পড়ে এতই আনদোলিত হই যে, নিজেকে নিয়নতরণ করা মুশকিল হয়ে পড়ে। আজ তেমনই এক দিন। তাই পাঠকদের জনয পেশ করছি সেবা থেকে সদয-পরকাশিত জীভস অভ অল টরেডস বইয়ের পাঠ-পরতিকরিয়া।~কাহিনি~বইয়ের কাহিনি বলবার আগে মূল দুই চরিতর সমপরকে বলে নিতে চাই। যাঁরা জানেন তো জানেন; যাঁরা জানেন না, তাঁদের অবগতির জনয জানাই - বিশববিখযাত ইংরেজ লেখক পি জি ওডহাউসের সৃষটি করা দুটি অমর চরিতর বারটরাম উসটার ও জীভস। পরথমজন ধনীর দুলাল, কু

Meh. For whatever it's worth, I pinky swear I'll review this one.
Classic Wodehouse humor with an insane convergence of many plots all converging with Bertie Wooster at their center. Only his man Jeeves has the brain power to extract him unscathed from the perils that threaten over the silver cow creamer, constable's helmet, a brown notebook, and possible engagement to two young ladies. At its best when being read into one's shell-like.One thing I did notice after all these years is that I now know many more of the half-uttered quotations and references Bertie always has to ask Jeeves finish. Decades of reading actually can lead to self-education!
In his own words he feels "hounded like the dickens by a remorseless Fate" every time droopy Madeline announces the break up of her nuptials with Gussy Fink-Nottle.The plot of the Code of the Woosters is best described for me as "screwball" comedy of the kind popular in Hollywood in the 30's.
The alliteration pointing at Gussie, obviously.Having watched the BBC production of "Jeeves and Wooster" , reading the novel now was a very visual experience, and I feel I should congratulate the casting department for the excellent choices made.
I read an unusual question the other day. It asked, "In a sensationalist age, when everything quickly becomes a matter of passionate intensity, is there a place for the airy trifle?"There are two correct answers to this question. The first is 'Yes, definitely.' The second, and best way to answer this is to just hand the person asking a copy of any Jeeves & Wooster book or, for that matter, anything written by the brilliantly hilarious P.G. Wodehouse. In this insane world, who doesn't need a little light-hearted piffle on occasion."Am I right, Jeeves?""Quite so, sir."
But my favourite joke in the whole thing was when Wooster refers to someone as a ‘sensitive plant’ and is told, “You know your Shelley!” To which he replies, “Am I?” That just about sums up everything I love about Wodehouse.
Utter joy.And the women in this one are even more selfish and manipulative than usual.
Wodehouse’s women are a complete joy, a species apart whether aunts or not.
I also loved Wodehouse saying, in the darkest before dawn moment, that it would be impossible for all of the ‘nice’ characters in this to get their happy ending.
আগের দুটো জীভস পড়ার পর এটা নিয়েও তুমুল আগরহ নিয়ে বসেছিলাম। সতযি বলতে কি, পরথম কিছু অধযায় পড়ার পর একটু হতাশ হচছিলাম। পরথম থেকেই জীভসের কারিশমা দেখতে চেয়েছিলাম - সেটা না দেখায়ই হয়ত একটু আশাভঙগ।তবে আর কিছুকষণ পরই আমার হতাশা হাওয়ায় মিলিয়ে দিয়ে নিজের পুরো ফরম নিয়ে হাজির ওডহাউস। মহাপণডিত, মানব দরদী বারটরাম উসটারের কাজকরম-কথাবারতা যুগিয়েছে নিরজলা আননদ। সাথে ছিল জীভস-এর চিকন মাথার মারপযাঁচ। এগুলোর সাথে কযাটালিসট হিসেবে পড়ার আননদ বাড়িয়েছে গাসি, মেডেলিন, সটিফি, পিংকার - এসব চরিতরসমূহের কাজ-কারবার।ডিউক জনে
আগের দুটো জীভস পড়ার পর এটা নিয়েও তুমুল আগ্রহ নিয়ে বসেছিলাম। সত্যি বলতে কি, প্রথম কিছু অধ্যায় পড়ার পর
Sweet gingersnaps, this book is the definition of hilarious. I laughed until I cried.In a nutshell: READ. IT. Cancel the appointments, pretend you don't have a job, put your magnum opus on hold, skip the lessons about learning how to make a Joyful Noise, call off the wedding, forget about sleeping, do whatever it takes to make time in your schedule to read this gem. You will never regret it. Toodle-oo, chums. I toddle off to break the last surviving mantelpiece ornament (read the book, you'll understand).
The precision of the writing, the incredible pace and control of the building farce, and the way that every joke is as light as a soufflé, when it has clearly been worked upon so that every syllable is the right place – makes ‘The Code of the Woosters’ an absolute masterpiece.On a quick historical note, this is that rare Wodehouse novel which lets current events intrude into it – with the presence of Roderick Spode.
Most English people never met a Hooray Henry the whole of their life, although in recent years the average Englishman has seen plenty of Hoorays on our TV screens; the Prime Minister, the Chancellor of the Exchequer (most of the Cabinet in fact), the Mayor of London.I was working with the Hoorays at now notorious accountancy firm based near Temple.
Let’s take a look:P G Wodehouse’ last work - “Jeeves the Hedge Fund Millionaire”Bertie’s long lost American cousin, Stanley Morgan Wooster the Third, persuades Bertie’s Scottish banker friend, Shredder McGoodwin, to lend all the bank’s money to rich Mexican peasants buying country houses in the middle of California.
I'm currently experiencing a confluence of multiple factors that tend to cause me to read less (moving, freelance work, being mired in the middle of a difficult non-English book) but I can always fit in a little Wodehouse. This is, of course, delightful. It's odd that I've read some Jeeves and Wooster stories many, many times (an omnibus was one of the few books I brought with me for a year in Germany) but others I've read only once or not at all. I'm going to have to make an effort to look up the stragglers at the library.
I’ve been missing out. For years, P. G. Wodehouse and his hilarious works of fiction have been out of my mind.. and I knew nothing about them. But thanks to Goodreads and his colaborators, I’m really pleased to have such books..
In his role as magistrate, Sir Watkyn once fined Bertie five pounds for the crime of stealing a policeman's helmet.
Unfortunately Sir Watkyn has forgotten the details of the crime, and thinks Bertie is a habitual criminal whom he sent to jail.
Madeline, regular readers will know, thinks Bertie loves her and is quite likely to decide to marry him unless he can find a way to patch things up between the sundered lovers.
Dark days, indeed!The plots are only part of what makes Wodehouse so wonderful though – and he does have a tendency to recycle the main points, like the Gussie-Madeline break-up.
ইংরেজি সাহিতযে চাতুরযপূরণ ও হাসয রসওয়ালা লেখকের কথা বললে সবার আগে হয়তো আসবে পি. জি. ওডহাউসের নাম । সিলি জোকস নয় বরং কথার মাঝে কথা আর সূকষণভাবে রসিয়ে রসিয়ে কথা বলার মাঝেই পাঠককে আননদ দেওয়া ছিল তার লেখার অনযতম বৈশিষট । যাকে বলে পাঞচ ডায়লগ । সেবা থেকে এর আগে তার দুইটি বইয়ের অনুবাদ বের হয়েছিল এবং বলতে দবিধা নেই সেবার সেরা দুইটি অনুবাদের মধযে অনযতম ছিল সেই অনুবাদ দুইটি । তবে পি. জি. ওডহাউসের বইয়ের অনুবাদ করা সহজ কাজ নয় । যেহেতু তার লেখা হিউমার পূরণ এবং কোন সিলি জোকস নেই তাই তার লেখার মান বজায় রেখে এব

Being a miserable old curmudgeon, it generally takes a lot make me laugh out loud (and I’ve seen every episode of 'Last of the Summer Wine' too), however, despite this, I always make a point of never taking any PG Wodehouse with me if I happen to travelling on public transport.Drawing attention to oneself on a bus or train is generally a hateful thing, and I am a man particularly averse to the angry shuffle of newspapers.
Laughter is guaranteed if you don't read too much of Wodehouse at one sitting.
I collected Wodehouse verbs: shimmered out, toddling up, whizzed by, pausing to pip-pip, bleated, biffed out, tucked in, beetled off, bowling along, potter about, swanking about, spouting vicarages, caught bonneting, heaved a silent sigh, snootered to bursting point.
Dash it!Add in exquisite similes, crazy names, literary allusions, Latin misquotations, unusual abbreviations and you have a rollicking good read.
I adore Overlook Press's Collector's Wodehouse set.
The complete set (99 volumes) sells for $1,975.
If anyone wanted to pip in and buy this set for my library, I would gratefully give him/her my eight books.
It's the kind of story you read when you need to recharge your happy battery and need a big fat smile.
It reminded me of a gentler, less acerbic (and, admittedly, less funny) version of the 70's TV show Fawlty Towers starring the great John Cleese from Monty Python.
I imagine such comparisons to Wodehouse's work could be made to much of British comedy given his influence on the genre.
A wonderful read and a definite mood enhancer.
P.S. I listend to the audio version of this story read by the Jonathan Cecil who was spot on perfect.
(Actually, you might be doing all of us a favor if you made it a very large rock instead of a pebble.) No matter how many folks may call themselves comics, it's my opinion that, at any time, there are only a small number of people who can actually make the rest of us laugh.
P.G. Wodehouse was (is) one of those people.The Code of the Woosters, while it is a very funny book, isn't a perfect one.
And, indeed, once he gets rolling again, Wodehouse does have more laughs up his sleeve.
As I said, The Code of the Woosters is a very funny book.
It's quite possible that a world without Wodehouse would be a world without Three's Company, a world without Frasier, a world, in short, without convoluted situations from which much comedy is derived.
That is to say, the old s.c. The mind reels.There's something to be said for a prolific author that can at once delight so many and fail to register with even more.
Some of my best friends are non-Wodehouse readers, which is to say that none of my friends appreciate the Wodehousian wit.
For better or worse, I find myself appreciating clever turns of phrase whenever I read Wodehouse, and often attempting same, occasonally with some success.
