https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/43673.The_First_Deadly_Sin
Perhaps one of the first mystery/suspense books that changed my pleasure reading habits.
It automatically placed the book (unless otherwise indicated in the story) in one of three eras: nowadays, the 60s, or--God help me--“olden times,” which ranged from the dawn of the mystery novel (which is all I read) to the start of the sixties.
Computers across recent decades remain blurry.The First Deadly Sin was copyrighted 1973 and the first oddity I noticed, primarily because of fledgling computer technology, was the enormous amount of paperwork associated with police work.
Because Delaney is very good at his job, coupled with his availability, he is asked to covertly beat Broughton to the arrest.This brings about the other point the passage of time has made obvious.
The book introduces New York City cop Edward X Delaney, who is on the trail of a serial killer, while also trying to care for his wife, who is dying of some unnamed illness.
But he has allies and amateur assistants/experts to help him.I love how Sanders writes these two major characters, filling in the details of their lives – from Blank’s methodical grooming routines, to Delaney’s eating habits.
Sanders moves the action back and forth between the killer's perspective and that of Police Chief Delaney, so the reader knows more than the detective, but that doesn't lessen the suspense.
All rather standard fare to the readers familiar wih the genre conventions, until the author pulls the proverbial rug from under our feet and changes the roles : the hunter of innocent victims becomes the prey of a merciless adversary, and the man who has sworn to obey the law is ready to do anything, use anybody and break every rule in order to punish the killer.Before I try to delve deeper into the two personalities clashing in this life and death chess game, I would like to mention how much the setting is part of the story: He knew that in 1971 New York City had more murders than American combat deaths in Vietnam during the same period.
One of the minor characters in that novel was Captain Edward X Delaney and, in this book, Delaney takes centre stage for the first in the 'Deadly Sin' series.
Published in 1973, this was made into a film with Frank Sinatra and it is a stylish and stunning crime novel.This book is firmly located in 1970's New York and is based on character and not action.
This is a very different crime novel from many written now; in which plot (often with an eye on a possible tv series by the author) supersedes character.
The next book in the series is The Second Deadly Sin (The Edward X.
Read lots of Lawrence Sanders while I lived in Paris since the apartment I was renting had shelves lined with his books. When I had gone through the books that came with the apartment, I dropped into Shakespeare & Company and picked up some more. Warning!: With all the talk of food in this series of books, it's hard to get through one without taking a sandwich break (or two).
نموذج مثالي لكيف تكون الرواية البوليسية تدور حول قصة قاتل ومحقق بارع قضى أكثر من عشرين عاما في كشف م
Do you like sandwiches?
I think if you ask me for a book rec in the next 3 months you’re likely to get this lobbed your way.
I loathed it at times (I described it as having a hair stuck in the back of my throat or feeling like spiders were crawling all over me).
Of course I send all my love to Suanne who is my all-time, world-greatest, book-recommender.
To be able to recommend books well for someone is to get who they are.
To be able to recommend something so unique and strange to a reader like me is...well, with Suanne I feel seen.
But eventually we got to the detective, Delaney, who is just great, a flawed guy who is a consummate bloodhound.
This is probably the first police procedural I've read where I liked that aspect of it; usually the writers either glide over procedure or turn it into a hassle the police have to overcome in order to get their work done.
Here, the procedure is used to pry open the case, and believably and brilliantly so.
I think the end of the story destroys any possible romance to this particular game of cat and mouse, at least.In the end, I really liked this, warts and all.
American author Lawrence Sanders was a multi-talented writer of crime, spy, and detective fiction.
His book titles--if anything--are the catechism to remember him by: starting with 'The First Deadly Sin' series; the 'Ten Commandments' series, the 'Timothy' series.
Though sharing the same title-motif, nearly every one of these consecutively-labeled books will perversely explore a different type of crime, or a different type of character, or unusual setting.
He also penned one of the all-time great serial killer novels with the 'First Deadly Sin'; and he led the field with this imaginative exercise for quite a while.
This unusual book heralded the over-saturated era of serial-killer romps which we abound in these days.
And in hindsight I realize that Sanders does the reader a service by giving us so much about Daniel Blank and Edward X.
Delaney during the first section of the book.
This character development and story groundwork are essential for the rest of the book's tension and meticulous plotting.I love the back-and-forth sections dealing with the narrative "sides" of the story, and I love that Sanders gives us not a mystery of "who-done-it" but a mystery of procedure, logic, and method.
And of course, there's quite a bit of Sanders-esque weird and sex thrown in there, too.
Delaney and several chapters pertain to him and the politics surrounding a police captain with a critically ill wife.But a killer is on the streets of New York City, and soon Captain Delaney is torn.
Much of the case is done thanks to these people when the city is in a full-blown panic because of the new administrations' blunders and inability to catch the killer.Captain Delaney is called back to work.
"We are each dealt a hand at birth and play our cards as cleverly as we can, wasting no time lamenting that we received only a pair instead of a straight flush.
the best man plays a successful game with a weak hand - bluffing, perhaps, when he has to - but staking everything, eventually, on what he's holding."For a book that is a phycological thriller by genre, this one is also very very philosophical.
Written and set in the 1970s, it gave me a sense of how it was a much slower time compared to the fast paced world we live in today.
I feel badly for giving a lukewarm review for this because in 1972 this probably was a shocking, tough and suspensful read, and it didn't read like a box full of cliches.But in 1999, it does, I'm afraid.
Here's what I mean: a) On every 3rd page, it seemed, our hero Delany was refered to as Captain Edward X.
Very very creepy indeed, and it's something that will stick in my mind (pardon the pun) as I walk the streets.For those chapters dealing with our villain, Sanders is bang-on...for those with, ahem, CAPTAIN EDWARD X.
But, if you don't mind that, then by all means read the story.
This book, which I listened to, was rather long for my taste, but I was fascinated with the quality of the writing.
Frankly, about one third of the way through it, I considered it possibly the most well written book I have read.
I enjoyed the back and forth inner thoughts of the killer and the police captain who tried to end his reign of terror.
I thought it was fascinating both men, who initially seemed completely different, in the end were much alike in many ways.
I am appalled that any reviewer would rate this book a 1, which is ridiculous.
Hmmmmm.
Bit strange this one.
I have very mixed feelings.
Started off slow, but then I really started getting into it.
The pace picked up and it got very creepy.
I liked the idea that although a large part of the book was focused on a murderer, that the deadly sin of pride actually lay within the Policeman.
It was a good and thought provoking angle.
But...I really didn't like the ending I'm afraid.
Maybe it says more about me than the book, but I just did not think that justice was served and it was a 'flaky' ending.
One of the most compelling books I have read. Lots of philosophy in the book, but so simply written that anyone can identify with it. At the same time, you can't put the book down - not because it's a thriller, but because it is so beautifully written. And like someone who gifted me the book told me, it's not about who the killer is, but about how the story unfolds. Undoubtedly a masterpiece. I can go on writing about it, but then it'll just be a spoiler.
I'm a big fan of Lawrence Sanders novels. This one is a perfect example of his work. Fascinating and suspenseful.
Good police procedural, worth re-reading.
How do you rate a book that gave you serious pain for the last 50 pages because it just wouldn’t end?I started to read The First Deadly Sin just after Christmas.
But there are raving reviews about how great the story and book are.
Of course those reviewers read the whole book.
I enjoyed my first book of 2014.The one positive I can say about The First Deadly Sin is that it’s only January and I’m quite sure I’ve already read this year’s worst book on my reading list!
In 2013 and 2014 it was a horrendous choice for a 47-year-old.The book is about 300 pages too long, 603 pages too long for my taste.
There is a very good reason why Lawrence Sanders has sold a gazillion books. I found this book to be, as I expected, excellent. Excellent, excellent, excellent. I can't say why I had never read it before.'It was a primitive terror that struck deep, plunged to something papered over by civilization and culture. It stripped away millions of years and said, "Look." It was the darkness.'
Great book, great read. Love Edward X Delany. Started drinking rye and ginger ale at one time because of him.
Hard to get into at first. Pretty detail oriented. Sometimes a little on the boring side but not so badly that I wanted to stop reading. Wasn't too happy with the ending, but I rarely am.
All of the Deadly Sin books with Edward X Delaney are great, and his sandwiches make one very hungry.
Don't ask why. Just read it.
I read all the Deadly Sins books - which I preferred to his McNally series.
The highlight of the novel is the investigation done by Edward, in cornering a well dressed psycho-sexual killer, (Daniel G Blank )stalking in the high class neighborhoods of the New York City, killing complete strangers with an ice ax.
Assisted by Calvin case, an crippled ex-mountain climber and Monica Gilbert, widow of the second victim, Edward lists out the 9 residents,from the shop's sales receipts, as the actual buyers of the ice ax ,in his 251 precinct  He also sends the names of these 9 residents to FBI and New York city police to find out past criminal records or any criminal charges dropped without reporting, regarding these residents.
Just like the previous book toyed with the blur between justice and crime and good and evil, Delaney's journey to the root of senseless evil in investigating a stream of New York street murders leaves him questioning the world and himself more than the culprit.
Towards the end it becomes clear the sin of pride is as much in Delaney as in the killer since he is willing to socially engineer, manipulate, press and torment his civilian resources and the suspect to the point of reason-less suffering and needless loss of life.
The first in a series of police procedurals featuring *iron balls" Delaney.Lawrence Sanders has been a favorite of mine.
The majority of his work has been of a serious nature, the "Deadly Sin" series particularly.
Sanders has an ability to create characters over a series who will work their way into your imagination...at leas...if not your heart.
In addition to this series, he has penned the Commandment series, and the somewha humorous and lighthearted Archey McNally books.In my experience, it's a good idea to start reading a Sanders novel when you have a couple of days free; they are.all hard to put doen.
I first read this book years ago.
I remembered so little of the plot but that I had liked it.
Years later, I have to say that some of the book is disturbing but that being said, I give it 5 out of 5 stars.
It's not so much the murder plot (because I've read tons of them) but the insight into the thinking and understanding of police personnel as well as that of an unbalanced individual.
Didn't even mind that the book is 630 pages!
(Believe me I've forced myself to complete some very long books and I've been so disappointed)
