https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5350.The_Partner
A man jogging down a lonely road in Brazil is kidnapped and tortured, accused of being Patrick Lanigan, an American lawyer who was thought to have been killed in an automobile accident four years earlier--about the same time that $90 million disappeared from his law firm's offshore account.
So is this guy really Patrick, and if so, what's his plan?I thought this was a highly entertaining legal thriller--implausible maybe, but who cares as long as it's fun?--until the very end.
Something.It felt like a cheap shot, manipulative and tacked-on, and left me more annoyed than an insurance company out a few million dollars.
LOVED this book - so smart and witty and edge-of-your-seat reading with lots of twists and turns. I'm torn about giving this 4 or 5 stars because the ending of this book taunts me in an intriguing and enjoyably annoying way...
An extraordinary read! compelling,legal thriller..well written and recommend to all (paperback!)
I do own Grisham books, but only because family members keep buying them for me on birthday's and xmas's. I smile politely and thank them, wishing they would include the receipt. I have read this, and i don't recommend it unless you are 10 years old and want to start reading adult fiction. Dull, dull, dull. How this man is a best-selling writer is reflection of today's society's IQ.
An extraordinary read! very compelling,legal thriller...well written and recommend to all (paperback!)
If you're into stuff like this, you can read the full review.Bookcrossing: "The Partner" by John Grisham(Original review, 1997-05-30)This morning on the Tube I saw a Grisham lying around, “The Partner”, and I was tempted to take it, but it was not marked as a bookcrossing book - so I wondered if somebody had only forgotten it or lost it out of his backpack when leaving the tram in a haste.
So I left it in there.
But since there was no affirmation that it was fine to take it I did not want to commit trover and left it.
Holy sh*t, there's only a week left!"or"I'm already near my page limit, let me just squeeze everything in the last remaining pages."or"Let me just finish these in 2 chapters so I could go back to *insert hobby/party/gathering/person here*"Quite juvenile thoughts for a well-published writter but just humor me here okay.That being said, this is the first John Grisham book that didn't feel like he was simply trying to end the story in a few pages or so and trying to tie whatever loose ends in whatever way possible.
This is not one of the best Grisham books, but there is enough suspense and drama to make it worth reading.
Four years before he had been a partner in a successful law firm in America.
The Partner is a good illustration of this truth--the man is always looking over his shoulder and waiting for the inevitable.
The One who judges perfectly according to His law all those who have not trusted Jesus for their salvation.
This isn't Grisham's finest work.There is none of the action of The Firm or The Pelican Brief.
The book starts at the end and then explains what happened.
Remember, "Show, don't tell?"It's a dull story about what happens when you steal a lot of money, and how to keep it hidden.
Why not start at the beginning and show what led to the crime and then the escape from justice?A good editor, agent or publisher should have reminded Grisham of the basics, before letting this book go out.
Although, to be fair, he should have realised it himself and probably did, but decided to publish anyway.
Brilliant strategizing, excellent suspense, but FRUSTRATING AND SAD ENDING.REVIEWER’S OPINION:I love Grisham’s writing style.
For someone who would enjoy smart-thinking, out-thinking others, and a good suspenseful read, go ahead.STORY BRIEF:Patrick worked for a law firm that was about to receive 90 million dollars from a lawsuit, 60 million of which would go to their client Arecio.
They kidnap and torture him asking “Where is the money?” Eva is a Brazilian lawyer who helps Patrick during this time.The narrator Frank Muller is great.
He adds fun suspense and drama to his reading of the book.DATA:Unabridged audiobook length: 11 hours 26 minutes.
Dihadapkan pd berbagai tuduhan, dari penggelapan uang sebesar 90 juta dollar, hingga pemalsuan kematiannya, menyeret dirinya utk membeberkan dan menuntaskan satu per satu masalah pelik yg jatuh beruntun menimpa dirinya.Thriller dgn penceritaan yg dituturkan dr tokoh utama bukanlah tema yg saya sukai.
Spt biasa, author memberikan twist-twist ala pengacara yahud yg menyeret Patrick ke dunia kejahatan.
Entah dimulai dr pernikahannya dgn wanita jalang hobi selingkuh, membuat Patrick menyusun rencana jahatnya utk menghilang dan dinyatakan meninggal, tetapi jg sekalian melenyapkan uang 90 juta dollar tsb.
Patrick tidak diragukan lagi adalah bajingan licik yg super cerdas, tapi jelas tidak punya garis kehidupan yg baik.
As the plots developed, Eva turned out to be a lovely wife-to-be, faithful friend, brilliant and dependable partner.
But you have been warned, read until the last word...I feel something awkward about the ending.
True, that he had found his love in her, that they’d both had a wonderful feeling to each other, but how could he ruin his brilliant plans ever since he decided to part with his former life and begin a new one by putting so much undivided faith on her, and how could the shrewd master of scheming fell foolishly to his partner?
OK, it reads fast and it is entertaining.
But I really do not buy the premise that the protagonist would give himself up in a occult way to put a complicated plan in play.
Granted without that conceit we would have no story.
But if you are going to start a complex mechanism going you had better be sure that no gremlins can spoil it and this is full of gremlins.
And then the ending!
The whole plot depended on the loyalty of a character that after giving up most of the money and aiding the main character faithfully decides to abscond with the remainder.
I didn't find this one as entertaining as The Client or The Runaway Jury.
Like Pelican Brief and The Firm, I felt it started strong but petered out.
For starters, Patrick Lanigan is, to me, Grisham's least likable protagonist I have read thus far.
There is no suspense in the final two-thirds of the book; just extended dialogue, legal procedure, and backroom dealing.
The premise on the back of the book suggested a bomb shell and there was none.
Overall, I was disappointed because I was led to believe that this was one of his best books, and I didn't find it that enjoyable.
This is a really fast paced, gripping story more like 'The Firm' & 'The Runaway Jury'. It's not a courtroom drama but more about how the protagonist uses the system & legal maneuvers to get himself out of trouble. Grisham’s writing style keeps you engaged at all times & there are not many dull moments in the book. The detailed plans & strategies he executes, the subplots, the suspense elements keeps you hooked till the end.Only the ending leaves you a bit disappointed & ruins what could have been a great reading experience.Except for that, a great read. 3.5 stars!
This book was fast pace and very intriguing I love every moment and I did not expect that plot twist but I absolutely loved it. 5 stars. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
This book was fast pace and very intriguing I love every moment and I did not expect that plot twist but I absolutely loved it. 5 stars. ⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️
It's the tale of a lawyer, Patrick Lanigan, who had faked his death and then swiped ninety million dollars that his law firm had gathered in a settlement.
As the book opens, it is four years later and Patrick is discovered.
Like the other Grisham novels I've read, the characters are well done.
This is the first novel, though, where the hero of the tale is an honest-to-Ghandi bad guy.
Well, mostly bad guy.
Throughout the book, I found myself rooting for Patrick, feeling guilty all the while.
Anyway, though it is an entertaining read, this has to be my least favorite of the Grisham novels I've read.
I had read The Partner by John Grisham years ago and have just recently re-read. I believe I am more impressed today with the novel than 15 years ago when first published. The way Grisham is able to tell a story is, of course, entertaining, but Grisham’s descriptions of attorneys, their behaviors, and their egos are absolutely hilarious and spot-on! If you want some insight into how our justice system behaves look no further. Here is an entertaining story that will provide all the fun of a gre
I had read The Partner by John Grisham years ago and have just recently re-read.
I believe I am more impressed today with the novel than 15 years ago when first published.
The way Grisham is able to tell a story is, of course, entertaining, but Grisham’s descriptions of attorneys, their behaviors, and their egos are absolutely hilarious and spot-on!
If you want some insight into how our justice system behaves look no further.
Here is an entertaining story that will provide all the fun of a great storyteller and the insight to the mechanics of a justice system fraught with egos, ineptitude and downhome stupidity.
The whole book was leading to a fantastic triumph, but no, Grisham has to rain on his own, the protagonist's (and the reader's) parade by yanking the happy-ever-after out from under everything.
Look, dude, you got where you are by following a tried-and-true, formulaic model for popular fiction.
We don't pick up a Grisham novel looking for great literature, we pick up a Grisham novel because we want to be entertained by a tried-and-true, formulaic yarn.
This pathetic attempt at tragedy fell on its face an unsatisfying thud.
Typical Grisham.
Leave the tragedy to Hemingway and Dostoevsky.
I like unpredictability, and this book did it up to the very last paragraph. IMHO, everyone got what they deserved.
I love everything I have ever read by J. G. He gives such a inside view to the judicial world, that one really starts to feel a part of that realm.
He steals millions of dollars from the corrupt firm, fakes his death, leaves the United States and transfers the money to an offshore bank account.
Until a gang of thugs who were hired by the crooked lawyers to hunt him down find and kidnap him, and demand where the money is, and Patrick says he doesn't know, and they torture him almost to death, but he still doesn't talk.
Now Patrick has returned home and is being put on trial for not only stealing the money but for a murder he did not commit.
I would excitedly wait for a new book to come out and would be first in line to buy one.
Not necessarily believable but one can easily forgive the liberties Grisham took to get the readers hooked.
I gave it 3 stars because the ending was contrived and predictable although I could tell that Grisham was going in for a shock of an ending.
But what the heck, he still is a good storyteller.I would continue to buy (and read) his new books, one of which is coming out in Kindle edition a couple of weeks from now.
Keep them coming, Mr. Grisham.
Gute Story, Grisham meets Leonard, jedenfalls hätte der Stoff das Potenzial dazu gehabt. Leider verfügt der Großmeister der politisch korrekten Gerichtskrimis weder über Erzählwitz noch über ausreichende Fähigkeiten bei der Charaktergestaltung für ein derartiges Unterfangen. Eine ganz nette Lektüre, so lange man nicht an das verschenkte Potenzial denkt.
Ok, I know... All of Grisham's stuff is alike and pap and not good enough for real readers. That may be true but I like the stuff. I wait until the paperback, but I grab it and read it and like it. The Partner is another good one. Attorney Patrick Lanigan disappeared four years ago with $90 million dollars. Everyone is looking for him and then he's found…
I enjoyed it.
As usual, the novel has something to do with the legal profession.
It is about a man captured in Brazil, who we learn is actually Patrick Lanigan, an American lawyer who everyoe thought was killed in an automobile accident.
The plot goes through many twists and turns and includes a mysterious girlfriend who helps him navigate a complicated web of legal maneuvers.
I am no lawyer but it all sounds authentic and (remotely) possible.I was not thrilled by the ending.
I would probably rate it 3.5 stars, but since I did enjoy it, I rounded up.
Wow! What a cleverly written story! One of the best books I have read in a long, long time. And with a twist of irony at the end. A real page-turner. Loved it.
The fun and strength of the book comes from the detailed telling of Patrick Lanigan faking his death and stealing a large sum of money in one fell swoop.
The telling is mostly done through Lanigan recounting his exploits to friends and associates and this seems to dull the action and tension a bit, as it is limited to his point of view.
The book tosses out its own version of karma and it is supposed to be ironic, but these karmic moments wrap themselves up a little too neatly and just comes off disappointing the reader; there is not enough balance.
"Poor John Grisham.
He pretty much single-handedly creates a genre, achieves blockbuster status with only his second novel, and every further effort flies off the bookstore shelves and onto the movie screen.
And then, when he writes yet another of his books, everyone bashes him for being boring.^M ^M  Like The Firm, this is a novel about a man who is preternaturaly clever at figuring out the details.
The most distinguishing factor for this book is a strong moral sensibility that hasn't been expressed since A Time To Kill.
It isn't art, but it is fast-paced and cleverly plotted, which is why you pick up a Grisham after all."
Really enjoyed this book, but hated the twist.
I didn't believe the u-turn by a major character, to whose thoughts we'd been given access throughout the book.
I'd believe this far more if it was hinted that she had conspired with Stephano in order to grab a bigger share of the loot.
I suspect the author threw this twist in late in the day to spice things up, but it spoiled the story for me, which ended on a sour note.
Still love the writing though, and despite this misstep I liked the book overall.
