https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/157857.The_Snake_the_Crocodile_and_the_Dog
I love the Amelia Peabody mysteries.
They play upon my love for strong female leads, Egyptology, romance, and a good mystery.
Is probably my favorite since  Crocodile on the Sandbank.Yet another enemy is after the Peabody-Emersons, this time to discover the way to the hidden Meroitic civilization they found in book 6,  The Last Camel Died At Noon.
It is at the same time funny and frustrating, particularly for poor Amelia, who must put up with Emerson as he was before she...
It's become my mission in life to convert people to the Way of Amelia Peabody.
I rather liked this convoluted story. It took me a while to understand everything that happened at the end though. I thought the amnesia bit was amusing, but the constant brushes with death for the two Egyptologists is getting old. Parents do need a break sometimes, and it was nice to see Amelia and Emerson going off to Egypt by themselves. Previous to this book in the series, I have listened to them, so this was my first exposure to actually reading one.
I just love these books. Really, any star rating I give them is not for the mystery portion, but for the characters and their interactions
Add to this impressive list of "ingredients" a dash of early feminism, British upperclass manners, interesting plots, and especially the academically sound Egyptian history from a legitimate scholar (Elizabeth Peters had a PhD in Egyptology from the Oriental Institute at the University of Chicago) and you have the very best in historical fiction, enclosed within adventurous and funny plots led by engaging and memorable characters who, though immensely more enlightened than many of their time, nonetheless remain realistic people OF their time, seeing the world through glasses tinted by their own culture and class.
Though Amelia would rather excavate some place new, she sees the merit in Emerson's plan.
She's also busy translating an Egyptian fairy tale "The Doomed Prince" and they've been asked by an old acquaintance of Emerson's to watch his cat Anubis while he's away.
Meanwhile, long letters from Ramses arrive detailing abduction attempts on himself and Nefret!
Other new characters include Anubis, the cat.
He wants to make amends and leave the past behind him but with a cat such as Anubis as his pet, I just didn't like him.
I liked hearing about her adventures from Ramses.
This was my first re-read of the 7th entry in the Amelia Peabody series in audio.
When Amelia and Emerson eventually head off to Egypt, Nefret (and of course Ramses) decide to stay in England with Walter and Evelyn.
All of the threats seem to relate to their last adventure and the wonders they discovered in The Last Camel Died at Noon.While Ramses and Nefret don't rejoin the Emersons physically, we learn through a series of amusing letters from Ramses that they too are facing a number of threats.This was absolutely delightful in audio, and I have no doubt but that I will listen to it again at some point.
The events of The Last Camel Died at Noon continue to impact upon the Emerson family.
The secret they uncovered has attracted the attention of various baddies and as the summary above discloses Emerson has lost his memory, which creates a romantic tension.
Again this proved a very engaging story especially when Emerson loses his memory of the past 13 years!
Would he ever remember Amelia?
Still, this is part of the pleasure of this kind of romantic suspense.
As always Rosenblat does a wonderful job voicing Amelia and her delightful dry wit.
("One may be determined to embrace martyrdom gracefully, but a day of reprieve is not to be sneezed at.") When danger threatens at home and abroad, Ramses threatens to rejoin his parents as soon as he has enough money for his fare, reciting an ominous running tally of his savings.If these books were a little more serious then I could be annoyed over Emerson's amnesia and Peabody's reaction when she finds out exactly when he regained his memory, but these are clearly meant to be a bit silly (Emerson is psychoanalyzed by a Dr. Schadenfreude) and they're quite fun to read.
If I've learned anything about the Amelia Peabody books, it is that these are leisurely tales.
Nothing is rushed and the story unfolds in it's own good time.
That is fine.
However this, in addition to the narrator's 'dramatic pauses', makes for a VERY long story.I was also mad that the author made me like one of the characters that wasn't really that character.
If you've read the story, you know what I mean.
I really don't like that character at all.Still, interesting enough.
Will continue onto the next, after a little rest from these stories.
Of course she is successful but with a slight setback...Emerson has amnesia and cannot remember the last 13 years of his life - yes that is the time that he met and married Amelia.
She sets out to help him remember their exciting courtship and life but of course, the attempts on their lives do no stop so it's another rousing adventure in merry old Egypt.
Amelia is one of those strong females who is definitely out of place in the 1800s; Emerson is bold, loud and given the time period, very romantically inclined; and Ramses is the funniest character of them all.
This Amelia Peabody read like two books. One book was set in England and the other in Egypt. They were tied to each other by the mystery to be solved. Alert: Pay attention to the clues in England they might help you solve the mystery in Egypt. There are a lot of twists and turns that will keep you guessing. It was a very enjoyable book to read even all of the Egyptology that was thrown in to educate the reader.
A bit old fashioned, for sure, but very nice to hear read on a long walk. This is the 2nd time that I hear this series.
I'm a little disappointed in Ms. Peters. I have always loved the Amelia Peabody novels, but this one, though it started out likeable, became so convoluted and confusing that I struggled to finish it. Also while she has some discreet bodice-ripping references, in this book Amelia fairly slobbered over her husband of 16 or so years, too much to be realistic. The villain was a character with whom I wasn't previously familiar and his role didn't make a bit of sense to me. The morale is, I suppose, to read all this series in order and don't skip any.
A fun adventureAs always. As close as you're going to get to being on an early archeological dig in Egypt. Great atmosphere and a puzzling mystery.
How I adore Amelia, Emerson, and company!
I really enjoyed this book in the Amelia Peabody series. I loved how Amelia continues to shine as a forthright heroine, and how she stood by Emerson's side when he got amnesia. Also loved that they visited the place where they first met.
Peabody and Emerson on their own head to Egypt when an unexpected complication and a distressing quantity of enemies make everything more exciting. Rosenblat’s best Ramses voice ever. I feel like this is the book when they ceased being just characters and started to feel like real people. Read on audio.
It not unusual for the first book or two in a series about a couple to be the best because the relationship is new and the reader has the fun of watching the couple get to know each other and fall in love.
Though this series is not primarily about the romance, the relationship of Amelia and Emerson is definitely part of the fun.
However, she does something pretty clever here - by giving Emerson amnesia she essentially takes us back to the beginning of their relationship and we see them get reacquainted.
In this book, Peabody and Emerson return to Egypt to hide some artifacts they discovered in their previous adventure, only to "discover" them again.
Before you start thinking how un-Peabody/Emerson this sounds, you have to know that in their previous adventure, they swore not to mention where they had been.
But of course, plans go awry and the Peabody-Emerson party is randomly (or not so randomly) attacked, etc.This is all fine, but Peters never returns to the issue of the artifacts at all.
This book was entertaining, but not as well written as other Amelia Peabody adventures.
Alot of serial authors, usually get complacent i think and all of their books start sounding the exact name but I think Peters does a remarkable job of changing it up.
I understand she has to incorporate some background for stand alone readers but she really does a great job mixing it in different ways and places in each book so you dont feel like your reading the same thing over and over again.
Carolyn Hart needs to take a lesson from Peters because every one of her books follows the exact same outline for every novel.
I very much enjoyed this installment of the further adventures of Amelia Peabody.
Amelia and Emerson are on their own in Egypt (sans Ramses) and, as usual, someone is trying to harm them.
Now an old married couple, Amelia longs for the early days of their courtship.
As Amelia copes with this new (but very much like the old) Emerson, they try to determine who is after them and why.
Barbara Rosenblat, as usual, is Amelia Peabody, she is one of the best readers out there in the audiobook world!
All her voices, whether it's Amelia, Emerson, Cyrus or Ramses - great, great, great!
This installment of the Amelia Peabody/Emerson escapades was the best I've read so far - even better than the first one!
Emerson is kidnapped and strongly 'interrogated' by one of their many enemies (when Amelia is trying to figure out who is behind it, she comes up with a list of 13 possible doers-of-the-dastardly-deed).
Intrepid Amelia helps rescue him, only to discover that Emerson has **gasp** forgotten her and their 12-year marriage!
I thought that part of the plot went on too long (and I personally would get a little paranoid about being wiped out of my loved one's memory so completely!), but I enjoyed the unfolding events too much to worry about that, especially since Amelia did enough worrying for everyone.
Emerson and Peabody are trying to keep the secret of where their foster daughter, Nefret was found.
The Lost Oasis would be a treasure trove to scholars but if it was discovered it would destroy an ancient civilization.
Unfortunately there are nefarious criminals who are suspicious that the Emersons have a map and are determined to get it.
They kidnap Emerson, beat him up and drug him.
When Peabody rescues him she discovers that he has lost his memory.
Peabody is determined to woo him back and follows him into danger with archaeological digs and chasing down criminals.

This is one of the few books in this series that I actually own, and therefore is one of the few books in the series where I was like "Hmmmmm, this plot line rings a bell.
SOMEONE ISN'T WHO THEY SAY THEY ARE." But that was literally all I could remember.
I managed to convince myself a few times that I knew what was going on, but it still kept me guessing until (almost) the end.
There's plenty of chuckle-worthy moments along the way, especially where Ramses' letters are concerned, and it was fun to have the characters return to the place where everything started, however many books ago.
However, here, Peters uses it as simply another foil to Amelia’s ever-lasting quest to simply get through an archeological season without murder and mystery.Having read the series up to this point over the last few years, it was interesting being thrown back in time, essentially, to the character that Emerson was pre-Amelia.
I feel like the suspects would have been better rounded out had these histories and motivations been a bit better documented, for those of us who don’t have an encyclopedic memory of the series as a whole.I also enjoyed the fact that the Nefret storyline wasn’t completely dropped in this book.
Might be my favorite of these novels since the first one. Returns to the location of the first novel, involves amnesia, and some interesting theories on how to deal with it. Love Ramses as an absentee character, as he is still very much present, even if not there.
And so my cozy mystery kick continues. I refuse to apologize--these are fun, fun books and a chapter a day is exactly what I need.
QUICK PITCH: Peabody and Emerson are at it again. VERDICT: This actually might be one of my faves...
Une fois que j'ai eu fait connaissance avec Amélia, j'ai savouré davantage ma lecture mais tout en continuant à sauter d'innombrables passages.
L'archéologue reçoit d'ailleurs des lettres de son fils qu'elle juge sans intérêt et d'une longueur extravagante mais l'auteur ne trouve rien de mieux que de nous les infliger de la première à la dernière ligne.
Le côté archéologique est également intéressant mais honnêtement, il reste si peu de place pour l'histoire au milieu de tout ce blabla que j'ai fini par ne plus m'intéresser non plus ni à Nefertiti, ni à la vallée des rois."Et comment cela s'est-il fini?
