https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/17262155-mad-about-the-boy
As all fans are aware, Bridget's appeal was that women, whatever their background, could identify with her.
Sadly, this is no longer the case: she is a wealthy widow, does not work ( her ludicrous attempts at screenwriting can't be counted as work and they most definitely can't be counted as being funny ), has a nanny and a cleaner yet constantly whinges about her hectic life, easily loses 3 stones in 13 weeks and bags herself a toyboy 21 years her junior.
Most of us would struggle to relate to her and this, perhaps, reflects the probability that Helen Fielding's life now is very far removed from that of most women.
After hearing what the book is supposed to be about and the direction it's supposed to go in,
Dear Ms. Fielding, I want to erase this book from my memory. I read it, and, despite the plot, the scenes are good, the writing is fine, funny, and sometimes sad. But, the premise that (view spoiler)[Mark Darcy is dead was a really stupid move. Mark and Bridget are interesting enough that you didn't have to kill Mark to make Bridget's life interesting and your readers didn't need to see her fall in love again. She's not supposed to love again. (hide spoiler)]I don't think you understand the appe
Dear Ms. Fielding, I want to erase this book from my memory.
Mark and Bridget are interesting enough that you didn't have to kill Mark to make Bridget's life interesting and your readers didn't need to see her fall in love again.
Readers did not just want to see Bridget falling in love, despite struggles.
"..when [falling in love] subsides, you have to make a decision.
Because this is what love is." And that is what your readers, Ms. Fielding, got from the first two books.
We knew intuitively that Mark and Bridget weren't just falling in love.
Those both felt very real and true, so much so that they almost seemed like part of a different story altogether.The narrative structure of this book -which sticks to the standard diary form, but jumps through time from the opening scenes back in time to an earlier period, then catches up with the opening scenes time period about half way through, continues through linear time until the end, when it fast forwards to a Happy Ending quota.
As you may have already heard -- and which is revealed early in the book -- Bridget's husband, the wonderful Mr. Mark Darcy, was killed in an accident while working in Africa, and now she is finally coming out of her grief and depression to start dating again.I think so many women fell in love with the Bridget Jones books (and the delightful movie versions) because she allowed us to laugh at ourselves and our funny obsessions with dieting and men and self-improvement projects.
The whole appeal of Helen Fielding's novels have been based on my absolute love for anything Jane Austen, and considering that Mr Darcy is "my guy", Pride and Prejudice retellings or modern remakes have always had a special place in my heart.Granted, I enjoy the movie more so than the book, but at least I can still picture Colin Firth as Mark Darcy.
When sit down and assess how things are going and I realise:So I turn to books and movies with HEA that make me swoon to try and feel good about myself.
He's dead.Killing off Mark Darcy is like...letting Voldemort live.
I preordered it! So excited. It's ridiculous how people judge the book without reading it... The ratings should be blocked until the release...I just read it! I love that Bridget still is the same beloved and funny Bridget we met before. I enjoyed her toy boy adventure, I really love the character of Billy and I think the ending didnt disappoint!Its funny, exciting and so easy to read. Really enjoyable.
You've got to be kidding me! (view spoiler)[Mark Darcy is dead?!? Dead?!? (hide spoiler)] Even though I'm not a fan of the previous BJ books - the movies are much better, which is an anomaly -, they were certainly a must-read in the late 90s, I'll give you that. But this one... WTF?!?
This is not classic chick lit in the manner of the original two Bridget Jones novels; there is romance, yes, but this is not the tale of a twenty- or even thirty-something looking for Mr. Right.
Our heroine is still neurotic, but life experience has given her character more weight.
So, while I've loved Bridget Jones for years, I feel closer to her now that we've both grown up.

Way to relate to a huge chunk of your original fans there...) and booze (mouthful of wine in the middle of a children's diarrhea/vomit incident?
Just keep in mind when reading this that Bridget is no longer in her thirties and trying to work out where her life is going.
Helen seems to think we've all forgotten who Bridget is - lines from the first two books and films crop up repeatedly.
Helen made a huge mistake getting rid of one of the most popular characters, but she made an even bigger one by writing this drivel in the first place.
I found the endless text speak, twittering etc very, very annoying and incredibly difficult to read,
(hide spoiler)] There's also a call back to Vile Richard too and Shaz, but neither appear in the book.The rest seems clunky and at times rather badly written (or just not interesting to me.) I found myself skipping a few pages because they were basically the same thing - mostly the parts about "Hedder Gabbler" meetings and some of the (view spoiler)[Toyboy sex with corny lines thrown in (like how he looks like an advert with a spray painted sixpack.
but now because fielding is approaching her word limit we're supposed to believe that he magically actually finds said insanity charming?
and note, please, that fielding has done LIT-rally nothing, chris praeger, to show us up 'til now how bridget is actually charming and not certifiable.no.
it read as if fielding were reworking her winning formula (messy heroine meets cute and hates gruff hero; haplessness ensues; he recognizes her charm under the lint and mocha stains; she's flattered; they live happily ever after) but had forgotten to (1) show us enough of the hero to make his psychological journey credible and (2) actually remind us that bridge is likable.*le sigh*still, go ahead, kids, and read it if you tittered over the first two titles.
A complete travesty to the memory of the first two books.
I'm almost offended that Helen would think that Bridget fans would enjoy the story/plot.
What was she thinking; 15 years, since the last book was published,18 years total, of Bridget living in Helen's head and she felt the latest instalment was up to scratch, the best idea she could come up with, that she was doing Bridget's character justice???

Here is the least surprising sentence that I will write today: The new Bridget Jones book really, really sucks.
Fielding employs a plot technique that worked the first time she tried it on Bridget, but now seems obvious and, frankly, pretty lame -- the same way it would if you or I were to dig back into a 20-year-old bag and test some of our old moves while wearing our current life.
I knew this book would suck, just like the second Bridget Jones book sucked.
For us 'women of a certain age', it's easy to relate to the fact that Bridget's voice, and that of her partners in crime, doesn't change, that people don't change, just their life staage and circumstances do.
And that's what I loved the most about the novel, aside from the fact that I've always adored Bridget's bumbling and somehow positively negative outlook on life.
If you love Bridget Jones, you will absolutely want to read this one, even notwithstanding the terrible horrible that happens which you can read about everywhere else but here.
GAH!I'm so glad that the movie(Bridget Jones and Baby) and this book are distant relations. Thank goodness that movie making people know what will make a woman feel scorned! Mark+Bridget= forever! I had to stop at page 137 because I couldn't take it anymore. But I did skip to the end to read the last 50 or so pages to find out what happens. Also, Bridget J was often blunt and crude, but when did she get down right vulgar? I wish I had never read it!
Like, remember that time Bridget's mom got involved with that sexy con artist wanted by Interpol?
That's why we read Bridget Jones books -- because we can all, like, relate so HARD!pfffft.
Please.If you liked the other Bridget Jones books, read this one.
Bridget's daughter has a part-time lisp -- not an actual speech impediment, but one of those "I'm the author and I don't think readers will remember this is a really young kid unless I make her talk funny" tells that lazy writers employ.
Helen Fielding, what have you done?Aside from the very controversial plot twist that has shaken the Darcy Nation to its foundation, there are two huge problems with this story: (1) It's really slow (2) Bridget Jones is still, well, the same Bridget Jones, and it doesn't fully work anymore.Back in the '90s, Bridget Jones was my homegirl.
WHY did we just spend 300 pages with Roxster when we could have built up the ending and gotten to know this essential character a bit more?
But the Bridget Jones franchise has officially played itself out.
Flashes of the Bridget we love and the Helen Fielding we love, but not enough.
I wanted to see what Bridget had made of herself and I was rooting for Helen Fielding to find some new obstacles for Bridget to tackle in her own endearing way.
But a lot of this book felt recycled from other books- particularly I Don't Know How She Does It- about crazed moms, internet dating, and other middle- aged crises from weight gain ( still?) to how to manage trendy fashion.
We didn't need to see the Bridget of 20 years ago, so the dating- the- younger- man subplot seemed very tired and contrived.
I read the first two books about Bridget over 15 years ago, back in the days when I, too, was a singleton who lived in a groovy apartment in the centre of town.
A whole generation of women, if not several generations, looked to Bridget Jones to make them feel that being a Colin Firth-adoring, messed-up single woman in her thirties was completely OK.
Bridget was endearing and made most of us feel reassured that we weren’t quite that pathetic.
The innocence that characterized the earlier books is to some extent gone (except when she’s with her kids).
(view spoiler)[Mark is dead! (hide spoiler)] and Bridget is 51! and still clueless. I don't care to read about that
Now that she's jobless, her shiftlessness is much less endearing.Fortunately for Bridget, most of the people she meets don't share my view and she is able to settle down happily with (view spoiler)[a man whose entire personality appears to comprise a) having been in the armed forces and b) a tendency to silently acknowledge humorous situations with a "flicker" of the eye or "twitch" of the mouth.
Fortunately for me, Bridget's observational and non plot-advancing writing is as sharp as ever, and it was fun reading her thoughts on modern fashions and affectations.
Although I actually did end up at least somewhat enjoying this third instalment of the Bridget Jones's Diary series, I simply cannot totally forgive Helen Fielding for the premise of this book, for having killed off Mark Darcy.
Thus, while I certainly did like Mad About the Boy by the end, I also did not truly love it, and will never be able to truly love it (there is simply too much sadness, and a for me nastily gratuitous sadness that I wish the author had refrained from using).
You have no idea how excited I am about this.(view spoiler)[Even though Mark Darcy is dead.(view spoiler)[I'm trying to figure out whether I should buy it on Kindle or hardcover.10 - 16- 13 : I'm going to wait until the price goes WAY down. I'm not feeling it. 11-3-13 : I do not like it omfg I'm returning to buy Fangirl by Rainbow Rowell. (hide spoiler)] (hide spoiler)]

Even in the more bizarre situations that had little to do with real life (a la the whole drugs mule storyline in book 2), Bridget always felt like one of us (despite being ever so upper middle class).
And yes, I'm perfectly aware that women can be widowed young, with very young children, and that really horrible brutal things happen in real life, but here it just felt like a ploy to play on our sympathies: "I won't just make you weep to know Bridget lost the love of her life, but really wring out every ounce of emotion.
The ending is rushed and not enough care is taken in some parts, whereas other parts are WAY too repetitive (ooh would love to discuss this further with people who've finished it) BUT for one reason only it works and that is a big reason...I LOVE BRIDGET JONESShe is still my favourite character in all literature I think.
I love Helen Fielding's writing, her sharpness, eye for detail, and the little things that imbue Bridge with her character.
I love how brave it was to kill Mark off, and how reimagining her life in this new way works (seriously though, what are those kids doing in those awful schools with those dreadful parents?
