https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33965941-can-do-the-story-of-the-seabees
Can is right!!!I had a great time reading this. I live in Guam in early fifty. I saw first hand the work the Seabee had done on that island. But I never knew they story until I read the book. Thanks to those brave men we got things we need to finish what somebody else started..
It's from early 1944, opening with talk about how we'll invade France soon. Best to read it as a mix of actual history, and propaganda. Even so, it's a history of an easily overlooked group of hard-working men -- volunteers -- who helped win the war by doing the less obvious jobs. These were soldiers who could build a combat airport in two weeks, in the middle of nowhere, with improvised materials, while people were trying to kill them. Their specific techniques and their interaction with the other military branches are interesting to read about too.
A solid and even enlightening look into the life of Seabees in WWII. As a period piece, it suffers a bit from the "news reel" style of presentation, but it is filled with well done anecdotes. I was also fascinated to read the specifics of how the pontoon docks were thrown up onto beaches, often with the first waves. In fact, it's impressive to read of how often the Seabees greeted Marines "storming ashore".Recommended for anyone interested in the Seabees or Island Hopping in WWII.
A Detailed Account of The Seabees in WWIIExcellent record of Seabee accomplishments in all areas of WWII and how they were unique to the needs of the 5 major roads to winning the war. The details of those officers and men that served through out the effort is to be commended in this written account.
InformativeI rate this high because it is well written .I reccomend it to anyone who loves the history of WW2.
Great historyMy Dad was one of these tough Seabees. He rarely talked about it but carried the mental and physical scar of it to his grave. I did not understand until I did Vietnam.
What the seabees do..Learned about unloading equipment on the beach while under fire. How they did it and the special pontoons they used.
Very well written and extremely informative! One of the best books about the Seabees I have read!
