https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13276170-the-complete-four-just-men
This volume contains all six of the books in the series. 4* The Four Just Men 3* The Council of Justice 3* The Just Men of Cordova CR The Law of the Four Just Men TBR The Three Just Men TBR Again the Three
Great stuff -- there's a reason the award's named after him. You can tell the break between the pre- and post-great war stories; I favored the latter (short stories rather than short novels) but the first two short novels were good. The last story was very good--though I was expecting even more.
Its light, fluffy action-writing based around the "locked room" type of murder story.
The cleverness of the solution is quite fun in each case; but it sure does take a long time to get there.
I'm just not sure the characters are depthful enough to sustain interest in reading every one of the works in this compilation, especially as the stories get long and longer.
If the structure of the other (longer examples) is simply more of the same kind of thing, then this book will lay on my shelf a long time while I muster up the interest to read the entire ouevre.
Excellent adventures and mysteriesIf you enjoy really well written stories about vigilante groups then you will enjoy this older, but timeless set by Edgar Wallace.
SEach is full of excitement, tension, surprises, murder and mayhem.
Justice is the aim, but whose justice is the question.Some of the best written fiction was done in the past.
It might feel dated based on some of the vocabulary, but the action and the moral of the stories is very relevant.
So these classic stories remain great reading, because the cleverness of this renowned author keeps the reader engrossed, engaged, and totally enjoying these action packed tales.
Enjoy!
I do like my vigilante tales. The scenarios are highly improbable but no less entertaining
Just Men SeriesThe organization of the Just Men was to set itself to right acts of injustice which the law left unpunished. In the beginning they were vigilantes but later became allies with the police; as a detective agency they could do what the police couldn't. I liked the characters in these stories and the stories themselves were very good.
