https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/625094.The_Leopard
The soul of the Prince yearned out towards them, towards the intangible, the unreachable, which gives joy without being able to ask for anything in return; like many other times, he tried to imagine himself in those icy reaches, a pure intellect armed with a note-book for calculations; difficult calculations, but ones which would always work out.” He is a dreamer, but due to his responsibilities is firmly rooted to the earth incapable of escaping his duties except for a few beautiful, peaceful, stolen moments when he finds himself alone to star gaze or take a bath or read a book.
I was blown away by the text itself – the descriptions, the limpidity of the language, the subtlety of the conversations, the disillusion of the central character Don Fabrizio, Prince of Salinas, and of course the gorgeous Angelica.
All the minor characters are also drawn with a fine brush – this short 400 word essay clearly does not do justice to this monument both of Italian literature (Il Gattopardo is considered the greatest work of Italian literature in the 20th C) and of the Italian language (which translated marvellously into French).
Βλέπει πως όλα γύρω του καταρρέουν, χάνονται, καταπατούνται,αλλά δέχεται τα γεγονότα ως φυσική εξέλιξη που καθορίστηκαν απο μοιραίους εξωτερικούς παράγοντες και την τραγική κληρονομική ακινησία -κυρίως πνευματική-των Σικελών.
Έτσι, περνάει σε μια τρομακτική απομόνωση της ψυχής του και χωρίς να νοιάζεται για τίτλους τιμής και περιουσίες, επικεντρώνεται στην ακινησία, τη μνήμη, τις νοσταλγικές αισθήσεις, την αποδοχή των πάντων και το Θάνατο.
Δεν είναι λοιπόν οι άνθρωποι που την αποτελούν αλλά η επιχρυσωμένη απόχρωση της ύπαρξης, με το άρωμα και τη γεύση της αλήθειας και της ζωής.
Every sod seemed to exude a yearning for beauty soon muted by languor.Aristocracy still enjoys luxury but the process of decline has already set in and it is irrevocable.The wealth of many centuries had been transmitted into ornament, luxury, pleasure; no more; the abolition of feudal rights had swept away duties as well as privileges; wealth, like an old wine, had let the dregs of greed, even of care and prudence, fall to the bottom of the barrel, leaving only verve and color.
رواية وحيدة لهذا الكاتب الذي يكتب عن تاريخ عائلته النبيلة في صقيلة.التاريخ الذي عاد به المؤلف هو تاريخ توحيد إيطاليا وكيف أصبحت التغيرات أحدث في تعامل الناس مع بعضها البعض.واصبح صعود الطبقة البرجوازية امر واقع وكان لابد لطبقة النبلاء من التنازل والتعامل مع هذه الطبقة الصاعدة والغنية.الرواية مليئة بالوصف للأماكن والأشخاص والمناظر الطبيعية بأسلوب شعري جميل لا يشعرك بالملل.هذه العائلة والتي تحمل شعار "الفهد" تحاول ان تتأقلم مع هذه التغييرات .
ولا تملك الا ان تحب شخوص الروابة حتى كلب العائلة.
بحاول الكاتب ان يُبين ان الصقليين رغم الاحتلال المتواصل ومن عدة قوى سيطرت عليها الا انها لم تحدث تغييرا على طبيعة البشر في هذه الجزيرة.كتاب رائع
They knew that for the next twenty-three and a half hours they would be lords of the villa once again.……On the walls the monkeys went back to pulling faces at the cockatoos.…………………………………………………………Of course I can't leave it at that - I have to add a few words after all, but really just a few!An aspect of Giuseppe di Lampedusa's writing I really enjoyed was the way he gives life to inanimate objects, so I was on the look-out for other examples besides the ones in that extraordinary first paragraph: But it was the arrival of two young men in love which really awoke the instincts lying dormant in the house; and these now showed themselves everywhere, like ants woken by the sun, no longer poisonous, but livelier than ever.
Besides, I'd like to see a translation handle this sentence any 'better', I really would.Outside of this issue, there is of course the dying Sicilian aristocracy embodied in a single man ever dwelling on his decadent ideals and his coming demise, something that would have been melancholic had the character managed to invoke my empathy.
As it stands, I was not impressed by the prose, the historical nuances, the authorial 'reasoning' behind the need for the church to continue hoarding its mounds of wealth and the preference of the peasantry to remain horribly oppressed than to hope for change, and especially the main character's musings that came off more as spoiled hogwash than any sort of noble insight.
What if you run over a man who is crossing the street on one rainy dark evening and you have to spend your savings to pay the dead man’s family?
The reunification resulted to the adoption of the Tricolor in their national flag.This reminded me of Peter Esterhazy’s Celestial Harmonies which is about the fall of the House of Esterhazy, a Hungarian noble family in Hungary.
However, the fall of the noble Salinas family did not stop when its prince, Don Fabrizio Corbera died in 1883.
If you love dogs, the prince has a dog called Bendico who symbolizes the nobility of the family.
Do these long stretches of dormancy make the leopard lazy?
The ideal for the Roman gentleman was otium -- leisure.
But not an empty, inert leisure; otium was rather the "leisure" of having free time to read, write, and converse intelligently with friends about intellectually stimulating topics.
Larger amounts of otium might be the dutiful Roman's reward after a long career of military or civil service.
In Lampedusa's The Leopard we see what happens when the idealization of leisure is retained without the demands of work and duty: neglect, stagnation, decay.
Somewhere between the characters – drawn too well to be forgotten – and the very fiber of Sicilians themselves.All Sicilian expression, even the most violent, is really wish-fulfillment: our sensuality is a hankering for oblivion, our shooting and knifing a hankering for death; our languor, our exotic vices, a hankering for voluptuous immobility, that is for death again.Under this definition, I know a number of Sicilians who’ve never set foot in Sicily.Perhaps only Tancredi had understood for an instant, when he had said with that subdued irony of his, “Uncle, you are courting death.” Don Fabrizio looks for her constantly, sniffing the air for her scent, expecting to find her at every turn.
La sua parziale via di fuga è l'interesse per l'astronomia, che lo connota anche simbolicamente : in fondo non fa nulla di utile, non è nemmeno un buon marito né un buon padre ; il suo 'splendido isolamento' e la sua eleganza sono l'emblema dell'ultimo vero aristocratico, si direbbe, della Sicilia.Non stupiamoci,dunque, che anche la morte gli appaia in forma galante, nella figura di una distinta e affascinante signora "di maliosa avvenenza" : "era lei, la creatura bramata da sempre, che veniva prenderlo".
There are mirrors across the walls (some smashed) and “wide, too wide” sofas (“showing nails with traces of silk that had been torn away”), and on the fireplaces “delicate little marble intaglios, naked figures in paroxysms...mutilated by some furious hammer.” The libertine's elegant dungeon, though defaced and sealed by horrified descendants, still yields up a bundle of small whips to the lovers’ snooping—and they discover still other whips, in the wing consecrated to the memory of a pious ancestor who flagellated his sinful flesh.
A book full of the deepest melancholy and feelings of loss, poetic language and irony. I loved this book. Other people have written beautiful reviews about it, to which I have nothing to add. I refer in particular to the review of Jeffrey Keeten or the review in Dutch of Sini. Both reflect my sentiments completely.
At best, I can add a few brief reactions:-The continuous retelling of sensory experiences recalls Proust, or some earlier English writers.
Lampedusa's writings on English literature have also been translated.-The book's most famous, most-quoted line, "If we want things to stay as they are, things will have to change", is directly - continuously - applicable to politics - both progressive and conservative.
That's the whole of Don Calogero's life, or of the parish priest's monologues.-Is this one of those books that becomes a go-to portrayal of a specific place or time?
The story is set in 1860s Sicily and accounts for the personal trajectory of a Sicilian aristocrat Fabrizio Salina as he gets caught up in the social and political storm that would bring democracy and irrevocable changes to the various disparate Italian states.Written in a lush style embellished by similes and metaphors, the story is told through a narrator whose voice is tinged at once with nostalgic melancholy and dry humor, chiefly from Fabrizio Salina’s viewpoint.
For us, a palliative that promises to last a hundred years is equivalent to eternity."Fourth excerpt: Men go by, societies crumble, powers change hands, but the world remains basically the same:"The great lords were reserved and incomprehensible; the peasants were explicit and clear; but the Demon deceived them all the same way."PS: I read this book in French, and quotes are translated by myself, so don't judge Lampedusa's writing by reading them!
Πολύ καλό ιστορικό βιβλίο. Αυτό που το εξυψώνει δεν είναι τόσο η ιστορία του αλλά η υπέροχη γλώσσα και η μαγευτική αφήγηση του. Με κέρδισε ολοκληρωτικά επίσης, και η διεισδυτική ματιά του συγγραφέα σε αυτές τις μικρές λεπτομέρειες -τις οποίες μας παρουσιάζει με εξαιρετικό τρόπο- που είναι λες και μας φανερώνει μικρά κομμάτια της ψυχής των ηρώων... πολύ καλό βιβλίο...
Quem me dera que este livro nunca terminasse… Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa
What do I think of this? On one hand I want to laud it as being a classic of Italian literature, imbued with the essence of Lermontov and breadth of Tolstoy. However, on the other hand, this is essentially just one long episode of Downton Abbey but with less Maggie Smith and more Garibaldi. I'm conflicted about this one a bit because it does have some really boring parts but then it has some just magical passages. Eh, I liked it, but it's barely clinging on to those three stars.
"Don Fabrizio pensava que é devido à ignorância íntima desse consolo supremo que os jovens sentem as dores de uma forma mais aguda do que os velhos: para estes, a saída de emergência está mais próxima."O Leopardo é de uma beleza infinita, maior quanto menor a nossa distância da "saída de emergência"...«"Tenho setenta e três anos, no total terei vivido, verdadeiramente vivido, um total de dois...
Era inútil cansar-se a fazer as contas - tudo o resto: setenta anos.»(Arnold Böcklin, The Isle of the Dead, 1886)
The quintessence of melancholy, The Leopard, lets the reader try on the skin of the titular character: the last prince in a declining aristocracy. It reminded me of  Under the Volcano . I was pushed to empathize with the last leonine lord of Sicily as intimately as I did with the alcoholic diplomat in Under the Volcano, despite never having aspirations towards being crowned or pickled. Both novels deal with cornered people doing their best while their world turns to dust. The Leopard is beautifu
. I was pushed to empathize with the last leonine lord of Sicily as intimately as I did with the alcoholic diplomat in Under the Volcano, despite never having aspirations towards being crowned or pickled.
Both novels deal with cornered people doing their best while their world turns to dust.
The Leopard is beautiful, and darkly funny, while Lowry's novel is from a much harsher cast of gorgeousness (Think: The Smiths vs.
I also found it comforting that the Leopard had the same complaints and human afflictions we all do.
All the relationships, affairs, and finest products in the world do nothing to cure him of falling short of an ideal.
For example, it is at one point noted that the Prince’s initials on a wine glass have begun to fade; Bendico, his dog, noses his way through the garden smelling of ‘dead lizards and manure’; Fabrizio goes hunting at Donnafugata, but hardly ever shoots anything, because there are scant targets; as payment for rent he is given slaughtered lambs, stories are shared about poisoned holy water and people cut up into little pieces, and so on.“As always the thought of his own death calmed him as much as that of others disturbed him: was it perhaps because, when all was said and done, his own death would in the first place mean that of the whole world?”Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa, himself a Sicilian aristocrat, only ever wrote one novel; and even this was rejected numerous times and was published only after his own death.
"Everything will continue as before, only more wealthy. The people had neither land reform nor Republic, or autonomy. The aristocracy gentrifies up and the bourgeoisie purchase titles of nobility. The stagnation, the cyclopean immobility, an ancient people and that intended as ever. a backdrop for a powerful novel."I'm delighted with the richness of language and sarcastic speeches of Don FabrizioThe adaptation for cinema was made by the principal actors/actresses:-Burt Lancaster-Alain Delon-Claudia Cardinale-Terence Hill
It gets devoured internally, its body bloating, consumed by its own bacteria—the peasants that require the pacification and gifts demanded by noblesse oblige, the expensive pomp and ceremony demanded of membership in the aristocracy.
Gradually, slowly, the corpse is consumed by blowflies and maggots—the nouveau riche who buy off its properties at fire sale prices.
Finally, in a final transformation, new vegetation sprouts from the rich soil of the decomposed body, new growth that will in its turn die and be devoured in the eternal transformation of societal evolution.
Unlike in many other novels of historical fiction, Tomasi makes no secret of the fact that he is writing from the vantage of hindsight.
But what I loved more than anything else is the elegant writing; you are in a dream as the sentences flow by.
Two sections stand out as especially beautiful: the young couple playing amongst the closed-off ruins of rooms in the palace and the main character facing death -- such haunting, effective images throughout!
Due to a memory jog by Michael (see comments 18 and 20), I realized that I have read more Italian writers than I originally thought!
Chekhov's character, Lyubov Andreievna, a representative – or I'd better say a specimen - of old Russian aristocracy, is a landowner fallen on hard times at the beginning of 20th century.
I loved the way this story is told because it reminds me of good old classics where all-knowing author gently takes your hand and leads you through his characters' lives, showing you around, and you see people busy living their lives and minding their own business, dreaming of what is to come and hoping for better life.
Pe fundalul întâlnirii cu pitorescul sicilian, cititorul ia contact cu don Fabrizio, principe de Salina, care se rezemneaza în faţa istoriei, concretizând un raport tragic între clasa socială şi avântul ideologic al societăţii.
Mai găsim "scăpări" artistice de mare valoare: "propriile-i suferinţe, trecătoare, în lumea durabilă a istoriei".Pentru amatorii de conflicte ideologice, e musai de citit, aşa, la o cafea, secvenţele "Un piemontez soseşte la Donnafugata" şi "Chevalley şi don Fabrizio" din capitolul al patrulea.De asemenea, romanul a fost ecranizat în 1963, în regia impozantului Luchino Visconti (care a adaptat romanele lui Mann), cu Burt Lancaster, Alain Delon şi Claudia Cardinale în rolurile principale.
This book deserves 5 stars for the writing3 for the wasted potential2 for all the characters whose story didn't get told5 for Don Fabrizio, Prince of Salina, undoubtedly one of Literature's Great Characters.
Una frase, tratta dal romanzo, che riassume il concetto di cui vi parlo sopra è la seguente:«i Siciliani non vorranno mai migliorare per la semplice ragione che credono di essere perfetti: la loro vanità è più forte della loro miseria».Il Gattopardo, principalmente figura araldica presente nello stemma dei Salina, assume una connotazione allegorica può essere ricollegato, infatti, con la figura del Principe che diventa la concreta rappresentazione di questo felino cercando di arraffare quanto più possibile tra le sue grinfie e, contemporaneamente, ostentare un senso di autorevolezza combinato ad un atteggiamento tronfio e borioso per la sua appartenenza all'élite aristocratica.
Ma Vittorini, che lo rifiutò per Mondadori ed Einaudi, ci era o ci faceva ?
