https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/300872.Sticks_and_Stones
Crisp, clear, engaging. A mixture of true architectural critique with a brilliant social history of the United States. A short read that's well worth it.
I was talking about this book one day and I was surprised that Brent actually knew who this guy was.
Apparently he is a respected author.
These are essays on early American architecture, so its mostly focused on buildings in the northeastern portion of the United States.Mumford is annoyed that these buildings are lazy imitations of European ideals, and that these buildings are not taking full advantage of the materials in their region.Mumford looks at a building designed for civic use, like Penn Station, and asks why the building has such high ceilings, which drives up heating costs, and wastes space in all the wrong places - he's also critical of the station's harsh industrial design.It's clear that this book has had some influence on academia, because echoes of this sort of thought were in texts I read in Geography and Anthropology courses, but other than trendy luxury hotels and certain new museums, American architecture at large is still suffering from the problems Mumford outlines in this book.
mumford never disappoints. who else could write a book about the history of architecture that's as witty and interesting as it is prescient (e.g., he's critical of the suburbanization that was only barely beginning in the 1920s when he wrote this book)? he travels from early new england villages to booming new york, with smoe stops along the way, to make the point that we don't have to live on top of each other in hurried, unimaginative neighborhoods. though he romanticizes small town life he does a great job of advocating a more humanized version of urban design.
Amazing commentary on the decy of crafmanship, masonry and architectural form in the aftermath of the civil war. Mumford also raises critical points surrounding the effects of the gridiron plan in american cities: "Even today our parks our what our cities should be, and are not." Olmsted, Lloyd Wright, and others eerge as heroes in a disintegrated landscape, while others rushing to build in industrial or romantic forms collapse into bad judgement, mere facaderie, and hollow forms.
Hope springs eternal. Mumford may be recognized as a founding father in the urban planning field, but his writing style leaves so much to be desired.
