https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/15819028-the-golem-and-the-jinni
But it is pretty clear that this is also a serious, literary work, raising meaningful philosophical questions, while using the folklore of two different cultures to inform the immigrant experience, offering a fascinating look at a place and time, and linking the experiences of the old and new worlds.
In doing so she has transported old world legend to a place where and a time when vast numbers of more ordinary people were trying to create new dreams, new legends of their own, immigrant New York City at end of the 19th century.The Golem is a clay creature constructed by a corrupt Kabalist near Danzig, at the behest of Otto Rotfeld, an unsuccessful, unattractive young man.
All of us are lonely at some point or another, no matter how many people surround us. And then, we meet someone who seems to understand. She smiles, and for a moment the loneliness disappears. Unsure what to think as I finally took the plunge into this 19th-Century New York tale of friendship, different cultures and, of course, magic, I found myself completely transported to another world.I understand why readers often call The Golem and the Jinni "fantasy" - it certainly has the depth, epic sc
Unsure what to think as I finally took the plunge into this 19th-Century New York tale of friendship, different cultures and, of course, magic, I found myself completely transported to another world.I understand why readers often call The Golem and the Jinni "fantasy" - it certainly has the depth, epic scope and density of a fantasy novel, and yet, I'm more inclined to call it a combination of historical fiction and magical realism.
When her master dies on the Atlantic crossing from Europe to New York, Chava must navigate this new world alone, hide who she is, and figure out both how to live, and just exactly what she wants from life.The other character is a Jinni called Ahmad.
I’m not entirely satisfied with the (somewhat rushed) ending, particularly with Sophia Winston’s role (though I do see how it mirrors Fadwa’s, a character from Ahmad’s past) and I feel Schaalman as the villain is a weaker aspect of the book than the exploration of human nature, but the epilogue ends on such a bittersweet yet hopeful note I still deeply respect what Helene Wecker has done.In a word, The Golem and the Jinni is a masterful look at the meaning of life through the eyes of two supernatural beings living in nineteenth century New York.
The pacing was excellent and I really enjoyed the unique story line and the way everything comes together in the end.
There is nothing better to me than a well executed story line where everything seems to have a purpose and ties into the larger arc of what's happening.
Also I really enjoyed the way that Chava and Ahmed's relationship is developed because it never felt like the rest of what was going on every becomes secondary to it which happens in a lot of books.
I do appreciate romance novels but it gets tiring to see relationships portrayed in such an idealized way all the time.
This is one of my favorite books of the year. I didn't know a ton about it going in, other than the gorgeous cover, and I'm very glad I didn't. It is a historical urban fantasy of sorts, about a Golem and a Djinn separately stranded in turn-of-the-century New York city. The two character's storylines intertwine beautifully, with themes of identity, religion and friendship weaving in and out of a wonderfully detailed world. If you liked The Night Circus, or Dr Strange and Mr. Norrell, you'll really love this book!
It's a detailed and grand scaled historical romance as well as being a delightful hop in magical realism, but I couldn't help make direct connections to Jonathan Strange & Mr Norrell.But not because many of the ideas are the same.
The length of the novel and beautiful prose also has a lot to do with it, as well.It's basically an immigrant story that becomes an empowerment story with a strong thread of very understated romance.
:)I totally recommend for anyone who wants a classy and gorgeous historical romance full of deep magic and iconic archetypal characters that are beautifully drawn.
This is the story of a golem and a jinni, how they discover who they are, their strengths, their weaknesses, and how, even though they're composed of completely different elements, they may just be the best friend for each other in a human world where they will never truly belong.As I was reading The Golem and the Jinni, enjoying their adventures and waiting to see how they would discover their origins, I didn't consider for a moment the idea that the tale could be a metaphor for something else.When I read the Q&A with the author at the end of the book, I was really kicking myself.
Thanks to The Golem and the Jinni, you'll be finding yourselves continuously compared to this stunning, hard-to-beat literary masterpiece.A book that encompasses vast lands and centuries of loneliness and solitude, it is told in the perspectives of a dynamic cast of characters, with their own stories to tell, fears to hide, and desires to pursue, but it is told mainly in the eyes of Chava, a golem that was made to follow a master but unfortunately found herself having no one to guide her, and Ahmad, a jinni, who in a malicious twist of fate and unwanted circumstances, was trapped by a wizard hundreds of years past and now tied to a world he does not know.
All in all, these are what I have to say: engaging story, check; nicely thought-out three-dimensional well-rounded characters, check; beautiful writing, check; surreal, magical atmosphere giving the book an overall romantic air, check; wonderful world-building, check!
This is a truly difficult book to rate, mostly because what faults I can find, I find them in myself as a reader.The premise of the story in perfect, Chava is a golem created to become the wife of a creepy little man who dies soon after he brings her to life. So now we have Chava, a masterless golem, a creature of clay, newly arrived in turn of the century New York.Ahmad was trapped in a bottle for over a thousand years by a wizard, and imagine his surprise to find himself in an unheard of con
Granted, there is nothing wrong with that, if I go through it, there is nothing wrong I can point about it, it's good, it's practical.
Oh, I'd recommend the book, but there was nothing in it that just sparked, that made me go, "Oh, that was beautiful."It is a very entertaining story, but it never feels like storytelling, there is never a sense of wonder reading it, and that's saying something when the two main characters are creatures of myth!As always, give it a try.
A great blend of fantasy and historical fiction that explores what it means to be human amid the multicultural blend of immigrants trying to achieve their dreams in New York City at the end of the 19th century.We follow the lives of two mythic creatures trying to pass as human, living parallel lives and slowly drawn into a common path.
The Jinni (“Genie”) is creature with the essence of fire and the powers to assume many forms and to enter people’s dreams and in some senses “possess” them.
That neither Chava or Ahmad sleeps drives them to walk a lot at night, which is how they discover each other and become friends.
Their clandestine explorations of the wonders of the city is a particularly captivating part of the story.
If you are planning to read this book, please do so as I did: in the dark.
Moreover, the way their lives become more and more intertwined as the story goes on reminded me of a choral novel, even though the number of characters is not nearly as high.
But I adore choral novels, and for this reason I soaked up the magnificence of this book twice as gladly."All of us are lonely at some point or another, no matter how many people surround us.
Sheer perfection.➽ Basically, there is nothing in this book that I did not adore to pieces.
See this review and more like it on www.bookbastion.net!_________  “All of us are lonely at some point or another, no matter how any people surround us. And then, we meet someone who seems to understand. She smiles, and for a moment the loneliness disappears.”  This book has been one of those ones that hung out on my TBR list far longer than it should. I would catch a glimpse of this book in bookstores and debate picking up a copy, only to pass over it when another book caught my eye. I bought i
This is a dense book.Clocking in at 657 pages (depending on which edition you get it may be a little more, or a little less) this was not quite the longest book I'd read this year but in terms of the scope of where the prose goes, it's certainly one of the most ambitious.Wecker was made to write Historical fiction.
While many of those characters end up becoming more important as the story moves on, I can't help but feel like this book could have been 100 or so pages shorter and nothing of merit would have been lost.
Full review now posted!Actual rating: 4.5 starsWecker crafted one of the most beautiful books I’ve read in a long time in The Golem and the Jinni, and I’m so glad that I finally took time to read it.I’ve had this book sitting on my shelf for four years.
Each area was rich in heritage and life, and seeing how radically the neighborhoods within New York City differed during this time period was fascinating.
I also love how beliefs and heritage infused every aspect of life for people in these neighborhoods.So, if the Golem and the Jinni live in very different microcosms in New York, how do they meet?
Wecker set up an interesting and fairly straightforward concept: Two supernatural beings in the turn of the century New York, trying to make their way in the New World, an exaggerated metaphor for the immigrant experience and the human condition.
The Golem's situation aroused my pity and I liked some of the parallels to women's situations that were drawn as well as the immigrant experience.
I would rather have seen what the Golem would have done truly on her own with no master to speak of- fighting her conditioning (like a lot of women had to do then) to be truly independent.
Both the golem and the jinni are able to make human friends to help them try to assimilate to life in America, but they both feel like they don't really belong, and they have different views on how much free will they should have.
The story slowly builds, and things become tense when we learn a dangerous wizard is hoping to capture the jinni.My favorite character in the book was the rabbi who helped the golem.
Actual Rating: 4.5 StarsThis was exactly what I wanted it to be. Gorgeous book!RTC.
It is the story of two ordinary people, immigrants like millions others coming to New York in the year 1899, there to learn how to deal with being uprooted from their birth lands, with being alone and lost in an alien culture, with how to slowly emerge from their hard protective shells and how to rely on each other.
So strong was the characterization and their individuality though, that for me they read like real people rather than impossible creatures from a fantasy realm.Chava and Ahmed are the new names they receive on arrival in the New World, gifts from benefactors who fortuitously come to ease the cultural shock of suddenly losing all the roots to the old home lands.
4.5 stars for this thoughtful, original fantasy about an unlikely friendship between a golem (an immensely strong animated being magically formed of clay) and a jinni (genie), set mostly in 1899 New York City.
She ends up living with another rabbi, who is sympathetic toward her but uneasy with her powers of destruction.The jinni, Ahmad, is also on the loose in New York City after a tinsmith accidentally lets him loose from the bottle that imprisoned him.
The golem and the jinni form a tenuous friendship, despite their vast differences.I loved this book's exploration of historic New York City and the lives of immigrants and others at the turn of the twentieth century.
Wecker probably could write a sequel, but I think rather than simply continuing the story of Chava and Ahmad, she'd do much better to write another book like this but with a completely different setting and characters.
The Golem and the Jinni is literary fantasy that doesn't fill its pages with unnecessary side trips into some hidden magical world just to detail other creatures; it spends its time on character development and describing a vivid turn-of-the-century New York populated by immigrants of all kinds.
When folklores from two diverse cultures tie the knots, it's a fantasy lover's dream come true.  In this (almost) retrograde YA era of lascivious vampires, snarky witches, quasi-enigmatic aliens and some inane Greek heroes, someone needs to remind us that fantasy is something more than this carousel of cliches and cloying monotony. And that Helene Wecker does, with an unprecedented eloquence and a meticulously crafted fantasy setting weaved within the 19th century America.Jinni, the Arabic myth
And that Helene Wecker does, with an unprecedented eloquence and a meticulously crafted fantasy setting weaved within the 19th century America.Jinni, the Arabic mythical creature ( who, contrary to popular belief is not a tutelary spirit ) meets Golem, a creature of clay animated to life in this book, just as the title inadvertently confines it to.
It all comes down what my mother replied when I told her about my idea of religion, "It's not a crutch, it's something like a placebo, and you'd never know what/who God is unless you've come across a problem bigger than you" True, I've lived in the proverbial glass castle all my life.
After finishing this lovely and lyrical book on Saturday afternoon, I continued holding it for a while, reluctant to let it go, to put it down on the bedside table, wanting to stay wrapped in the translucent veil of the story just a little longer.Here are the bare bones of the plot.
Incidentally, this describes pretty much every woman I’ve ever met.Like Chava, Ahmad the jinni is not quite human; he’s made of fire, literally and figuratively.
By night, the jinni roams the streets of Manhattan, occasionally trysting with Sophia Winston, a vaguely unhappy heiress, who like the golem, is doomed to live out a dull, predictable existence.
It was written incredibly well, I loved the plot and the characters and it was really quite unique in comparison to other books I've read.
I just have so much love for a beautiful book cover, and this one is no exception.
I love the way the two characters combined together into one story.
I was hoping for something more, but in all honesty, it left me feeling kind of "meh" However, despite my personal preferences in regards to this book, I would recommend it, as it was overall, a unique and satisfying read.
I wasn't quite satisfied with the ending - somethings were tied up too neatly, other things left too open-ended for my tastes - but this was a failing on my part and not the book's.EDIT: Actually, after a lot of thought, I'm bumping this down to a two star rating.
The more I thought about it, the more I realized there were elements that just did not work in this book and that was no failing on my part as a reader.
Also, (view spoiler)[the death of Michael was completely unnecessary.
4.5 starsIf you like Harry Potter, you need to read this.
If you like any YA book, you need to read this.
If you prefer other-type fantasy novels like The Lord of the Rings, you need to read this.
The initial 40% of the book introduces the reader to the world in which this book is set: A wife/slave made of clay, bound to her master, is suddenly freed when he dies, and she has to learn to navigate 19th century New York City completely masterless after being alive only a few days.
There just are not enough stars - I just finished this fantastic book!
Even things that are frightening have such an empathetic edge, they are softened to be quite palatable.
The research seems thorough, very believable, I learned about things I knew very little about before.
The story so beautifully unfolded, I wondered how all of the different characters were going to be tied together, how the paths would eventually cross.
I loved the way the Golem and the Jinni both worked at becoming human, the emotions developing and evolving.
It is amazing this is a first book, I will read anything that she writes.
This book was on my TBR for a long time and I was always finding a way to squeeze it to my list of the books I'm currently reading.
Recently, I found enough time to read this novel and it didn't disappoint me.
It exceeds my expectation because the character and story build up was to look forward to.
What I like about this novel is that it makes us believe that destiny could bring two individuals together because of an unlikely circumstance or in their case, a greedy human.
Their dilemma made them choose the best desirable option though it would make them separate from each other.
One of the most awesome covers I have ever seen.Maybe the best of the best!
Then it kept popping up in a couple of groups I'm in, and between everyone seeming to be well impressed with it, and it seeming to be a sort of thing I would like, being a fan of historical fantasy in general, and various cultural mythos in particular, I figured I'd give it a go.So I'm a bit sad to say that I wasn't really all that wowed with it.Now, don't get me wrong - it's not a bad book or anything, and maybe it's just a case of disappointed expectations, but I felt kinda meh about it for much of the time, and now, writing about it a few days later, I can't say it really left all that much of an impression.
5 Motivos para ler Golem e o Gênio https://youtu.be/Db34I5hxmgI--QUE LIVRO INCRÍVEL!Personagens maravilhosos envolvidos numa história que eu nunca mais vou esquecer. Enxergar a Nova York do século XX através dessa escrita MARAVILHOSA foi uma experiência muito marcante. O livro não perde o ritmo nem por uma página. São mais de 500 páginas e nenhuma delas tem qualquer tipo de enrolação. Todas as histórias de todos os personagens estão ligadas de uma certa forma essas conexões me surpreenderam bastante. Leitura 100% recomendada pra quem gosta de fantasia e histórias que tocam o coração.
I would probably use more words that would mean the same to make this review seem a little longer and a little more helpful but no matter how many words I use, I don't think any of them can describe this book properly.The Golem and the Jinni is a book full of wonders.
The tiny nuances of this book, the not so surprising surprises, the little, little stuff we normally ignore or blindly read thinking it wouldn't stay long in our memory, it all stays, trust me.
