https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6381897-a-dark-stranger
Gracq's grasp of psychological landscapes brushes otherwise ordinary settings and interactions with the marvelous.
The fascination at the heart of the book is simultaneously a kind of dread, and there's simultaneously a universal explanation for this, a few proximal ones based around real contemporary figures, as well as the more inescapable one given by history: this novel of interwar leisure was written while the French Gracq was starving in a WWII POW camp in Germany, victim of the war to end all quiet interludes.
Maurice Blanchot called Gracq's opaque writing, layered with adjectives and so unlike the purity of classical French prose, as evidence of Gracq's "magical" conception of the world.
He wrote in order for his readers to feel more than see.
Such an assessment rings true regarding this oblique novel, admirably translated by Christopher Moncrieff (Gracq once stated a desire that his work remain untranslatable), in which the eponymous stranger, Allan Murchison, arrives at a seaside resort in Brittany bearing the weight of a "great resolution," and pulling into his orbit a group of tourists who seem unable to tear themselves away from his magnetizing presence...
There were moments where I truly loved this book with its flashes of beautiful prose and places where time ceases to exist that intrigued me.
The mysterious Allan character, which is meant to be the driving force of the novel, was often times not nearly as compelling as he probably should have been.
My problem with its implementation in this novel is that there wasn't enough else going on to drive the narrative.
In the rare scenes of long conversation, the author would delve solely into the two speaking voices, allowing any sense of place or action to disappear.
julien gracq's second novel was called UN BEAU TENEBREUX and, according to this, was written in two spurts: in 1940 and 1942.
it was published in 1945 and brought out in english in 1950 by new directions with this beautiful, word-less cover.
a somewhat plodding story about a ubermensch-wannabe who corrupts a crowd of european archetypes summering at a beachside resort, this novel is probably not the one that makes gracq's reputation.
but despite its flawed structure and some truly awful melodramatic scenes, there are still stunning examples of an elaborate, beautiful style studded with breath-catching insights.
"I've always regarded the pine as a tragic tree. The harsh, violent twists of its branches, the stiff foliage, those tiny sword knots in place of leaves which are reproduced so miraculously in Chinese engravings, not the slightest concession to the softness of flora, a style more in keeping with hard stony ground, gunflint, a scorched existence, something charred, like the embodiment of some primitive notion of love: barren, exhausting, relentless--But love to me is a palletstuffed with pins."
‘A Dark Stranger’ is better than that, but still doesn’t live up to its beautiful Pushkin Press cover.
You’ll agree that’s exactly how we make discoveries."Something in his voice made me think he was applying this last expression to himself in particular."My dear Henri, what some people call an innocent taste for experiments, others have sometimes called ‘tempting fate’.
Perhaps people are always vaguely dreaming of giving a star performance some day or other.This seemed like the central theme of the book to me: hotel guests creating an artificial web of drama and intrigue because their holidays are deathly boring.
Une histoire bien décevante. Écrit comme un journal intime intégrant des dialogues, le récit est langoureux : on suit les actions (ou plutôt les non-actions) de personnages qui se retrouvent tous en vacances dans le même hôtel. Le narrateur principal est assez mystérieux, voire inquiétant. Les personnages se veulent spirituels, pris dans la tourmente des intrigues amoureuses et des passions humaines, mais ça ne m'a pas accroché du tout. Le tout finit de façon mélodramatique. C'était pathétique. Dommage!
Not the easiest book to get into, this is however a stylish and slightly creepy story of the corruption of a group of wealthy visitors to a seaside hotel. The sense of lethargy and boredom seeps through the whole text, action moves at a somewhat glacial pace as the 'dark stranger' makes his mark on the group. Not one to read if you are looking for action, but if you want style and a building sense of foreboding then this is ideal.
Merits a second reading. I have a feeling I might have missed some of the allusions whose threads were lost in the subtext. Reading this novel, with its wealth of metaphors and allegories, I felt transported into Gracq's surreal world, very dream-like with a sense of impending doom. A neglected gem indeed.
Pretty bad book to be honest. One or two decent scenes but mostly just awful boring descriptions of nothing
7/10
re-read is in order
Die lediglich zwei vergebenen Sterne spiegeln einen ganz persönlichen und momentanen Eindruck wider und es wird sicherlich interessant sein, das Buch mit etwas zeitlichem Abstand und in einem anderen Setting - beispielsweise während eines langen Sommerurlaubs - noch einmal zu lesen.
Weder die Konstruktion, noch die relative Handlungsarmut des Romans oder das Fehlen von Identifikationsfiguren waren Ausschlag gebend für meine begrenzte Freude beim erstmaligen Lesen.
Dem Roman ist es nicht gelungen, mich in die gleichzeitig von Langeweile und Zeitlosigkeit geprägte Atmosphäre eines langen französischen Sommers an der bretonischen Küste zu versetzen und mir das komplexe Netzwerk der Beziehungen zwischen den Protagonisten lebendig werden zu lassen.
After the awesome Opposing Shore and the very good Balcony in the Forrest, I had the highest expecta
This was almost a surrealist novel, very dreamlike with strong lyrical language. Not a novel of ideas but more a novel of feelings. It reminds me of a dreamy pre-cursor to Robbe-Grillet Maison de Rendezvous, and very near the feel of de Chirico's Hebdomeros. I want to read more Gracq.
Felt a bit like I was drowning in allusions to texts and concepts that I may never understand, but I stayed for the strange mood, the descriptions of the beach and hotel. Maybe the films Last Year at Marienbad and Daughters of Darkness have drawn from this book.
Some really tremendous writing at times, though often lends itself to the lethargic while wrapped in the very formative narrative. Some of the most engaging descripitive settings that too often involve inconsequential and unnecessary characters.
Book Club of Death selection number two. Verdict: exquisite.
