https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/287041.Facing_Mount_Kenya
Facing Mount Kenya is absolutely essential reading for students of Kenyan culture, and remains a fine overview of the Gikuyu (Kikuyu) people, as well as a good case study for general readers in African studies.
Facing Mount Kenya is not a jingoistic work, but the reader will not be surprised to find out that they are reading from the first president of an independent Kenya.The most disturbing passages here for a 2013 reader involve female genital mutilation, a practice that Kenyatta asserts as absolutely essential to Gikuyu life.
It certainly outlines Kikuyu culture but not in a purely anthropological vein, but in a castigating manner to the Europeans who viewed traditional African culture as primitive.
I'd have been more pleased with the book had it stuck to merely giving an accurate picture of Kikuyu culture as opposed to interspersing anthropological and ethnological writing with long detours and diatribes against British views on African culture.
I however understand that the writer did live in colonial Kenya and the need to explain (defend?) Kikuyu culture to the British was necessary; more so given the sociopolitical and economic climate at the time.A good read all in all
Finding out more about my culture in an interesting way but also as academic research, great
Many years ago I read this fascinating autobiography by Jomo Kenyatta which tells the story of Kenya's struggle for independence.
However the book is also a fascinating look into the early 20th culture of this east African nation.
The reader is richly rewarded with insights into the life of a fascinating leader who became Kenya's first non-colonial president in the 1960's until his death in 1978.

Every kikuyu must read this book. Mwacha mila ni mtumwa. A historians gem.
Kenyatta's description simultaneously forces the reader to wonder about the positive aspects of a simpler, more communal style of life that is unfamiliar to western readers, while also highlighting many of the positive benefits that the west has made.
Furthermore, while the benefits of tribal unity are quite clear to the reader, I can't help but ask how the lack of choice (and the underlying lack of opportunity that necessarily precedes choice) have impacted the overall development of his tribe.
Overall a fascinating and thought-provoking read, even when the language is a bit anthropologically tedious.
I was looking for something light and I thought this could be some interesting non fiction book. I was expecting the book to be about the Kenyan struggle for independence since the book was written by Kenya's founding president. It turns out the book is an anthropological gem about the Kikuyus. I really enjoyed reading the book and learning the pre colonial life of the Kikuyus. I was surprised to find some Shona words in Kikuyu with the exact meaning and many others with almost similar phonetic sounds. Its a great book
Read in the mid nineties
An essential read for any student of East African tribal customs and anthropology.
Facing Mt. Kenya is an ethnography about the culture of the Gikuyu people of Kenya.
As early as the 1800s, ethnographies became an important means of recording the history of African peoples.
Due to the legacy of colonialism and Eurocentrism, there was often a great neglect in the education system (of colonial Africa) in the teaching of African history, ironically enough.
Ethnographies like Facing Mt. Kenya worked to sustain the knowledge of the culture of African peoples, as well as to dissect them anthropologically so that the layman might understand.
Facing Mount Kenya is a fantastic book.
As some have already ventured to explain, Facing Mount Kenya is not politically neutral.
Nevertheless the book is still the best resource out there for any and all who are interested in an anthropologically tinged view of Kenya's tribes.
Some chapters were more interesting than others I felt.
I found the chapter explaining the Gikuyu's de-facto political system to be an engrossing read.
The last few chapters that dealt with religion and magic I didn't take quite a liking too.
Overall though, the books was quite interesting.
This is a great book that everyone who gets a chance too should read.
This is a very important book historically - African story told by an African rather than a Westerner. I was hoping it would be "Pan-Kenyan", but Kenyatta only deals with his tribe - the Kikuyu - their customs, beliefs, structures, and how they were affected by colonialism. It is written from his point of view and it is not objective, but Kenyatta's book does invite us to do what the white settlers in East Africa didn't bother to do - to try to understand the African mind without prejudice.
It's a lie - I didn't finish reading this book. Will now admit that I'm not likely to, unless it's the only book available in the departure lounge and the flight has been delayed for three days. Sorry President Kenyatta - simply found it too boring - words I rarely use about anything but log frames.
includes a lengthy satire of western artifice and exclusion and has a three page description/oral history of a pre-patriarchy female rule (no time-frame is offered), the discussion of polyandry, how female names were carried over to offspring, and even the perhaps mythic tale of the female rulership's overthrow (a story too good to ruin here). i read this outloud when i wants to freak them out.
I have been wondering what I'll tell my kids of Jomo Kenyatta's legacy. I found the perfect, befitting answer in this book. I have also been extremely curious to know how the Gikuyu went about life traditionally. Thanks to him, the ways of the Gikuyu, which sadly are now forgotten and unknown to the latter generations, are immortally well recorded. Great read!
Read for Graduate School African History class. Very revealing and enlightening--and memorable. Clarifies reason behind Mau-Mau.
It is a good book to read.
Amazing early anthropological account of Kikuyu life by London-trained anthropologist Jomo Kenyatta. Although it seems dated these days, it remains an important text.
Excellent but densetook much longer to read than fiction
