https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/257233.Raintree_County
I had started it once years before, then set it aside, and finally read it at a point in my life when I had the time and the patience.
But I've never read anything at all like it.
It's about America and Americans, Time, Fantasy, the 19th Century, and lots more.
At this point in time the 1957 MGM movie adaptation is more famous than the source novel.
The movie is interesting in its own way, although its really not very good.
The novel RAINTREE COUNTY is a challenge, for its size if nothing else.
"Raintree County" is an American version of Tolstoy's "War and Peace".
Lockridge's "Raintree County" rises to that level--and, in my estimation--surpasses it.
And I love Walt Whitman and Ross Lockridge for the same reason.
Ross Lockridge's "Raintree County" astounded me.
As a result, spineless readers wince when the "N" word is used, or terms like "pickannies," "darkies" or various other period vulgarities are employed by despised side-characters.
Maybe, with enough of us protesting, the prude schoolmarms with tenure at universities will be nudged from their slumber and realize that they have neglected one of the titanic achievements of modern American literature.
As Lockridge ended the story with Johnny’s determination that “each man had to build his world again [periodically:]!” It is difficult to return to the idealized world of the young, as Cash Carney laments in an epitath to lost youth (on page 848 of this edition).The thoughtful framework of Raintree County, the life of its author, and the biography of his son seem to cry for a re-telling of the story in another generation.In short, Raintree County is the great American novel and should be back on reading lists.
The saying that it is not the destination but the path comes to mind when I think of this book.
Johnny's attempt to find the mythical raintree, from which flows endless prosperity is the destination; however, it is the path, strewn with prototypes from American history, that stand out most in my mind.
The prose remember in this way; in addition to being lyrical, like a river, each chapter ends in an incomplete sentence that is finished by the subject of the first sentence in the next chapter.
It is a good time to pause and contemplate the interconnectedness of all things, and sometimes to laugh at the incongruity of it all.
I was immediately drawn to RAINTREE COUNTY, a nearly-one-thousand page book, a copy of which was in my father's study.It takes place on the 4th of July (the date of my review.) Different Fourth of Julys are described in the different chapters.
The characters are from Indiana and grow up to fight in the Civil War. It's an epic.In 1994, Ross Lockridge's son wrote an excellent book about his father called SHADE OF THE RAINTREE.
Ross Lockridge's son says in the biography something to this effect: "In a very real respect, my father died for a book."The story behind the publication of RAINTREE COUNTY is, in itself, epic.
It's true, on occasion he could have benefited from a more careful editor, but with the exception of a few tedious passages, I was very happy with this novel.
This is a good thing because the book is 1060 pages and it darn well better be gripping.
I enjoyed the conceit of the entire novel spanning one day in 1892 with flashbacks throughout his life.
It's too bad that Lockridge killed himself shortly after completing the book because he was talented and had a lot to say!
Probably the book would be better known today if he had lived and written more, I don't know.
There's a review already here by Sonnetal (sorry if I spelled this incorrectly) but it says it all. This is one of the GREAT American novels and it's been neglected. Lockridge killed himself in despair only two months after it was published, and selling well. His publisher had cut the extended dreamlike ending and it seems to have tipped over an already tippable soul. They were probably right. As it stands, this novel is almost perfect. I too love the Russians. Here was our Russian.
John Wickliff Shawnessy is the hero of the novel, but he is flanked by a mesmerizing cast of characters: Garwood Jones, Professor Jersusalem Stiles, Nell Gaither, and Susanna Drake among others.
* Susanna is a troubled Southern girl whose mental anguish, stemming from a Faulkner gothic family, whose tormented mind is metaphorically the result of the conflict of the slavery in pre-Civil War America.
Lockridge captures adequately, I think, the pervasiveness of slavery and the North/South tensions and also all the uncertainty of whether war was inevitable.One of the minor characters, Flash Perkins, the fastest man in Raintree County until defeated by Shawnessy in a drunken race is with Shawnessy's unit.
This forgotten beauty is close enough to the Great American Novel for me. It has everything such a idea contains: a sweeping look at America's most turbulent time on its own shores, a tremendous love story, glorious writing shot through with poetry, a mystical center that ought to lie at every story. People should read this. They need it.
A big beautiful book, lost to us, but it shouldn't be. It is so American, so poetic, so magical. Come back, Mr. Lockridge. You shouldn't have killed yourself.
I have a first edition of this. Great story! Love, loss, friendship, war; it has it all and is written perfectly.
I might even say they are hammered on repeatedly.When geography is the subject, there's the question of how this timeless piece of land, currently known as Raintree County, came to be something presumably understood and rendered on a map, its landmarks named.When language is the subject, there's the question of how living speech ("the exclamations of young republics") acquires "the tranquil beauty of ideas."When war is the subject, there's the question of how the utter chaos of a battle resolves into a general understanding that something has been accomplished.There are predictable meditations on the millions of tadpole-like messengers that must expire so that one can complete the mission and begin a new life.From the perspective of the other end of life, "Perhaps it was better to have no legends at all, no letters composed into rigid words and pressed on sheets of paper.
Legend has it Johnny Appleseed wandered the midwest, carrying among his apple seeds a single, exotic seed from the golden Rain tree. ( Looking for a place it would flourish and grow, he planted it somewhere in Henry County, IN, the place where Ross Lockridge grew up.) Legend has it that those who find the Rain tree discover the realization of all dreams. Mr Lockridge takes us on a journey to find this sacred tree of life through the wanderings of John Wycliff Shawnessys life.The story begins on
So he learned the gigantic labor by which the earth is rescued again and again from chaos and old night, by which the land is strewn with names, by which the river of human language is traced from summer to distant summer, by which beauty is plucked forever from the river and clothed in a veil of flesh, by which souls are brought from the Great Swamp in the the sunlight of Raintree County and educated to its enduring truths.”I began this read in December but had to put it down and begin again after the holidays when I had more time...I had a hard time adjusting to the rhythm of this book.
Herman Wouk wrote in his intro to the edition I have that this is the Great American Novel.
Well, maybe not, but it IS a great novel.
This is one of those books that you could open at nearly any page and find something wonderful to quote.
Lockridge creates his characters as inextricably tied to the very land of Raintree County; it shapes them, gives them life, calls them home, and helps them know their own identities.
Lockridge's characters are all philosophers, it seems, and they don't converse so much as they take turns giving speeches!
In any case, this is a book for pondering.
The strange linkage of a sound and its visual symbol was invented by men who lived beside a river, saw a cursive shape written on the earth, heard the continuous sound of flowing water.As for the Bible, said the Perfessor, it’s just a lot of old Jewish myths and archives, some of it pretty dull stuff.
Nature, Humanity, Liberty, Poetry, Passion, Love, these became meaningful concepts to her and summarized eternal images of life on the earth.[W]e have the Indianapolis News-Historian to remind us that we’re living in a new age, the age of the Modern Man, or perhaps still better, the Common Man—common because he’s becoming commoner all the time and more and more like every other man.
He is amazingly prescient in speaking to the future of the United States through a story about its past.
The lessons of that War speak volumes on our present political situation.
But even more telling, perhaps, is his rendering of the Gilded Age. He is a white man writing in 1947, but even so he balances the great number of misogynistic patriarchal Male characters in this Civil War novel with a vision for how we might be, told through the eyes of the main character.
At 1,100 pages, I found it by turns frustrating, enjoyable and exhausting.
It ultimately was interesting enough to keep me reading to the end, though.
I was okay with the structure of switching back and forth in time -- that wasn't a problem -- but the author went off several times on pages of poetical and philosophical flights of fancy that I found annoying and which seemed to me to be self-indulgent.
It was sort of like reading a book like Thomas Wolfe's Look Homeward Angel interspersed with passages from Leaves of Grass.
This book has an interesting story and gives the reader a look at 19th century Midwestern life before and after the Civil War. Its non-chronological structure places several emotional climaxes at the end.
This reader could have done without the dream sequences and did not need to know the characters' opinions of every philosophical subject.Some of the sexual attitudes expressed were also disturbing, even though this book is tame by today's standards.
Yet the main character is likeable and the reader roots for him despite his flaws.
And despite its length, the story held my interest until the end.
They say this is the Great American Novel and it is. Few seem to know it. Few seem to have read it. But it's exactly what the Great American Novel ought to be. Poetic, mystic, a deep connection to the land in a time of great turmoil, the conflict between the North and the South, and a mythical Raintree somewhere in Indiana. Superb.
A wonderful, unique novel that deserves to be better known today. There may be too much of it, but it's overall quality is impressive. It is an elegiac portrait of America and Americans that is moving and sly and like nothing else! If you don't know this book, you should seek it out, it is an overlooked masterpiece.
What a great book. It covers one day in a life, and the memories of a lifetime... Many may say that this is the Great American Novel. I agree. As I read it, the novel calls up images of America similar to Whitman. I highly recommend it.
As of now, the greatest book I've ever read.
This book was hailed as The Great American Novel when it was published in 1948.
I read it cover to cover, all 1,246 pages, and I can attest that it is the worst novel I've ever read that I actually managed to finish.
I slogged several hundred pages into the book, saying to myself, "Surely, this novel cannot possibly continue to be this bad.
At around page 500, a kind of madness set in, and I became determined to finish the book no matter what.
Fellow reader, I can only console myself with the hope that I read this book so that you don't have to.
I occasionally try to read this one, thinking maybe I wasn't in the right mindset in the past attempts. The most recent attempt to read it made me realize it's a book I will never be able to get into. It's too meandering and just outright weird in some places.
Whew.
I suppose this is a "classic", but what a tough read for me!
At first I was intrigued by the construction of the story, bouncing between the different times in Shawnessy's life (and other characters).
But around two-thirds through, there started to be a lot of long repetitive paragraphs that seemed to glorify youth, dreams, "the Republic", yada yada yada.
A little of that would have been fine, but in the last 200 pages I found myself speed-reading (i.e. scanning) through those parts.
The story itself would have been one thing, but that stuff made it depressing.....and BORING.
A strange book. The Civil War part was excellent. The rest was tedious for the most part. The writing is familiar in a mid-20th century way, but I've seen this done better. Surprising how much sex is in this thing, too. Even that turns out to be tedious in Lockridge's hands. A shame he killed himself.
Yes, it's long, yes, it could have been edited a bit more, but it was so engrossing, so interestingly structured and surprisingly entertaining. It took me such a long time to read it; now I'M from Raintree County! I really admire Mr. Lockridge's way with words. Next, his son's memoir about his father's tragic suicide at age 33.
The author was a distant relative of the family, so I got designated to be the one member of the family to actually finish it. It's billed as a Great American Novel, and that pretty much says it all - it's chock-full of all the self-important blowhardiness, vaguely drug-addled descriptive passages, and somnia-inducing length you'd expect. Not my style at all.
The writing style was so florid that I just couldn't get past it to enjoy the storyline or characters.
Oh I remember reading this SO long ago and just lingering on each and every word. Its a wonderful book.
