https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/835701.Night_at_the_Vulcan
make that a great need, just a couple of weeks in England, arriving from her native New Zealand the poor, nineteen-year- old girl wants to be a star on the London stage, but first any job will do.
Ngaio Marsh is if I may say so, the Agatha Christie of New Zealand ( not a put- down) , with a background in the theatre , a fine mystery writer, while this is my first book I have read of hers but not the last.
After an unfortunate "accident," Inspector Roderick Alleyn of the famous Scotland Yard comes in to solve the mystery, accident, suicide or murder ?
The team has another unbearable character in the person of Dr John Rutherford, author of the play; he is harsh with everybody, especially with Gay Gainsford, Bennington's niece, who is the actress playing the part Martyn was hoping to get.
But Gay goes to pieces and throws hysterics just before the start, and Martyn is forced to make her first stage appearance in inauspicious circumstances.The play is a hit: however, just before the curtain call, Bennington commits suicide by inhaling gas exactly like the previous murder.
Love Marsh. She's up there with Christie as a great mystery writer.
So it's as much a general fiction story that happens to have a murder in it as anything else.Set in London in the 40s or 50s (I'm guessing), we see little New Zealander Martyn Tarne newly in London struggling to find acting work and getting really down on her luck.
Other than that it seems to be typical of whodunnit murder mysteries from this time that we have to end on a happy and irrelevant engagement.The theatre world seems to be a tiring mix of egos, politics, bitching and back stabbing.
Hercule Poirot, Miss Marple, Lord Peter Wimsey, Inspector Grant, and most recently, Inspector Alleyn.
Night at the Vulcan was interesting partly because it varied the formula a bit and also because Alleyn managed to solve the mystery in a single night.The story starts out with a young woman named Martyn Tarne who intended to audition for a small part in a play but arrives too late.
Of course there is a murder--someone no one likes or will miss very much.
And of course the murderer is caught, although not quite in the usual way.Night at the Vulcan is one of Marsh's more clever mysteries.
I was previously thoroughly underwelmed by "Light Thickens", my first of the Alleyn novels, but found myself quite enjoying this one.Vulcan's strength partly lies in its protagonist, Martyn Tarne, who is interesting and sweet of nature, and therefore quite easy to like.
Adam Poole and Jacko are particularly delightful.The set-up to the murder is well done; the reader becomes thoroughly absorbed in the different personalities on stage, as well as the goings-on of the play.
The light splash of romance was a pleasant surprise, as well.The way Alleyn solved the mystery and caught the murderer was rather unusual.
Martyne Tarne has been in England from New Zealand for two weeks, and her money is about to run out when she happens upon the Vulcan Theater in Night at the Vulcan, also published as Opening Night, by Ngaio Marsh.
The play features a role by the famous actor, Adam Poole, in which a young woman plays his daughter.
And Martyne's face looks so much like Adam's that it startles everyone.
With just two days to go before the big opening night, Martyne gets offered the understudy to the young woman's part.
Halfway through I had to check to see if it was a mystery, but it was an engaging enough book to keep my interest.
By the time the murder had happened, I was engaged with the characters and wanted to know what would happen to them.
Typically we get a murder that's orbited by the characters, but Marsh wrote it as characters who are eventually orbited by a murder.
I aspire to be as well-spoken off-the-cuff as the characters in this book.
As an aside, I found it in my library's give-away shelf with a bunch of other Ngaio Marsh books.
Such an engrossing story that it was almost a surprise when Alleyn & Co. made their appearance about two-thirds of the way in. Clever how bits from earlier books in the series are woven in.
Ngaio Marsh is a favorite mystery/detective writer, and this story has been my most appreciated of her books since I first read it half a lifetime ago.Ms. Marsh loved the theater, and used it as a setting quite often.
As with many female detective writers of her day, she hankers after a gentleman from the upper classes.
I am not denigrating Mr. Alleyn or Ms. Marsh or Lord Peter Wimsey or any number of these upper class gentlemen who must have seemed the epitome of their society to writers who could invent any hero they wished.
There is something so enjoyable in picking up and tearing through these vintage British crime/detective novels, though it is not till over half way through that either crime or the detectives enter this story set in the theatre.The writing is descriptive and evocative, but at the same time tight, so that reading it for me was a pleasurable indulgence that kept me engaged for a lovely couple of hours in a single sitting.
Bettie's Books
You can always tell which character you're supposed to like, and for me, it spoils it when I don't like them.
And she just highlighted for me how much I didn't like Martyn, because I should have felt bad for Martyn for having to deal with her, but the way she crumpled, unlike what I would expect from a sensible young girl, just...
It's bog standard, and you can tell who it is in the first hundred pages because it's the character who is innocuous enough to seem innocent and dislikeable enough that when they're proved to be the murderer, you don't feel so bad for them.
Even just judging by page numbers, the detective doesn't show up until very late in the book.It's about these characters getting into terrible trouble with each other and burying it, everybody hiding what's really going on beneath layer and layer of camouflage until the whole little tribe of the play is like a sarcophagus full of dead bones long before the dude actually gets murdered.One particularly nice revelation is that the heroine of the rags-to-riches side of the tale isn't quite as she appears, so that in the beginning you think, oh, cheesy, a rags-to-riches tale, and it turns out that that angle on the story is more camouflage.
Which is nice.And it's about Art, of course, because nothing is as it seems in the theater, and nothing is as it seems in a murder mystery.
As I read this book I had the impression that I had been there before. Marsh has a few stories that occur in a theater setting. About two thirds through the book Inspector Alleyn indicates that he already knew the layout of the theater. That came about in "I Can Find My Way Out," which is a story contained in "Death On The Air." I only wish that I had re-read that book first.
Much more pleasant than the previous one in the Alleyn series, with characters one could actually relate to and who showed some humanity to each other. And lo and behold, the youngest Lamprey (from the Surfeit of Lampreys title) and who provided eye-witness evidence to Alleyn which helped solve that murder, has actually joined Scotland Yard and makes an appearance.
There's more drama backstage at the Vulcan Theater than onstage, when a death by gas heater seems to repeat an earlier tragedy, there's tension among the leading lady, her leading man (former lover) and her husband, the fading character actor; and among the new ingenue, the fading ingenue and their champions.
I love Ngaio Marsh, and Roderick Alleyn will always be one of my favourite detectives of the golden age (although he continues detecting into the 1970s...) This is short and sweet, of using on the story prior to the murder, which, when Alleyn is called in, is solved within 24 hours. A perfect, quick read and deftly plotted.
The mystery itself was good, and the clues were just enough for me to piece together. I think I was just a little thrown off by the romance (I know it says distant, but still...) and the fact that it took place over such a short span of time. It was odd to have a book where the murder took place pretty late and the rest of the book was spent in interviews for a few hours.
This one is essentially fine. The characters are interesting, in general. The mystery is competently done. I like Alleyn in it. There is the requisite case of insta-love, but I guess it makes some sense, even if it's far from my favourite. And I do like the protagonist.Default three stars.
This novel is so delightfully detailed! Ngaio Marsh's knowledge of theater life shines through brightly on every page. I can also say that I had no idea who the murderer. Pure enjoyment all the way around!
it was good and well written. The description of the theater was more interesting them a murder. The murderer was unexpected. One of the best book of Roderick Alleyn series
Terrific.
Amusing
Marsh's excellent mystery focuses on a murder during the opening night of a play. It is complex and entertaining, as is the norm with her novels.
A delightful read, as always. Ngaio Marsh just never fails to please with her intelligent, elegantly crafted writing.
Entirely set in a theater during the run up to a new play this one had me convinced I knew who-done-it and then totally surprised me.
I don't enjoy the theatre books in this series as much (Light Thickens being the exception), due to the overly dramatic personas of the actors. But, enjoyable just the same.
A fantasy, a mystery, a play...
Merecendo um vídeo resenha...
