https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/229065.Redemption_Accomplished_and_Applied
Read this book, and read it again.This is by far one of the greatest works I've ever read on the subject concerning the very heart of the Christian faith: redemption.
Systematically going through the aspects of both the accomplishment of redemption and its application to the believer, Murray leaves the believer with nothing but a humble fear and an unquenchable joy because of the person and work of Christ the Savior.The book is laid out as follows:Part 1: Redemption Accomplished1.
Whatever your current status in your walk with the Lord, this book will refresh your heart and convict your soul - to the glory of Christ our Lord and Savior!
Read the “accomplished” half for Doctrine of Christ. Murray’s care for precision and honoring the biblical text are an inspiration and rebuke.
60 years after its first edition, 'Redemption Accomplish and Applied' is a deep, beautiful explanation of Christ's work on the cross. I have a greater appreciation for what Jesus has done and the implications in my life after reading this. It's not a simple read, but the heavy portions are worth pushing through. A compelling case for penal substitution and the Reformed perspective on redemption and its application.
Un livre qui permet de redécouvrir de manière concise les vérités glorieuses de la foi chrétienne concernant le salut. Son chapitre sur l’efficacité de l’expiation est la meilleure défense de l’expiation définie que j’ai lue.
This book is amazing. Murray does a great job at offering the bare bones arguments for definite atonement, but more importantly, he does so in a deeply doxological way. This is theology at its finest because it isn't stoic, it's exuberant. I'm so glad that at the cross, Christ didn't merely die to make salvation possible, he died to save.
An excerpt:The order in the application of Redemption is found to be, calling, regeneration, faith and repentance, justification, adoption, sanctification, perseverance, glorification. When this order is carefully weighed we find that there is a logic which evinces and brings into clear focus governing principle of salvation in all of its aspects, the grace of God in its sovereignty and efficacy. Salvation is of the Lord in its application as well as in its conception and accomplishment. How so heartening and freeing.
Seminary level content dressed up in introductory level packaging.
A challenging yet worthwhile read.
Weighty book on the atonement. Difficult to chew through. Sometimes a bit too verbose, but if you don't mind that, it's an excellent look at the atonement of Christ. Very biblical.
La segunda parte del libro habla del orden de la salvación en donde de una manera muy clara responde a objeciones que se han levantado desde las trincheras arminianas, pelagianas e incluso racionalistas.
Un libro que si no estás familiarizado con conceptos teológicos respecto a la Cristología batallarás un poco aunque dichosamente el autor los explica uno por uno y da el sustento bíblica para cada uno de ellos.Recomendado para usar en grupos de estudio bíblico o para el discipulado a una persona nueva en el Evangelio.
An excellent treatment of the reformed view of salvation.
I think his section on the extent of the atonement was pretty good.
He chapter on union with Christ was also excellent.
It was clear union with Christ brings with it things all the benefits of salvation.
Union with Christ is salvific in the fullest sense of the word.
His chapter on sanctification was very strong.
He states that sanctification is a necessary benefit of regeneration.
Regeneration without sanctification is an impossibility.
I would have liked more practical application, but other than that it was quite good.
Solid overview of the work of Christ and the application of that work in the life of the individual believer. Really fleshes out the implications of getting the logical order incorrect. I think readers could be better served if he began this section on the ordo salutis with Union with Christ as the foundation instead of discussing it at the end. Also wish he said more about the corporate aspects of our salvation (being grafted into a community of believers), instead of just the individual benefits. Overall a good intro to the ordo salutis.
There is a reason that this book is a theology classic. Murray explains the key concepts of the Biblical teaching of the Christians redemption by Christ with compelling clarity. I was regularly brought to tears as I read.
Fantastic! Amazing! Fabulous!
Very solid.
But rather, each of these is directly as a result of our being united to Him, and this unity pervades every point of the life of the believer, from beginning to end.8) Finally, Murray makes the important note that many view glorification as occurring simply at death.
The gospel, while good news, is loaded (in a beautiful and deep way).
John Murray has shared wonderful foundational information that could be easily overlooked within the gospels of the application of salvation, or redemption.He goes in depth on the nature of atonement and the nature of redemption (hence, the title, Redemption Accomplished and Applied).Effectual CallingRegenerationFaith and RepentanceJustificationAdoptionSanctificationPerseveranceUnion with ChristGlorificationIn this order, he goes in depth how each flow beautifully; in similarity of how each attribute of God compliments each other, in necessity.
It is important to know what we believe, why and how it works.
Wow. A very well written and argued case for the Reformed understanding of the ordo salutis (order of salvation) and historia salutis (history of salvation). It was very well biblically argued, in my opinion and it was a very enjoyable read. I liked the fact how he went toe-to-toe and argued for the controversial doctrine of Limited Atonement, or better called--Particular Redemption, among other doctrines. The book is very well written and not hard to understand. It is very quotable, which shows its down to earth language as well as its Scriptural foundation.
Read for the third time at least over the years as part of my Apologetics Class at RtS Dallas.If you are calvinist and read one book this year...
Or if you are not a calvinist and read one book ever from a calvinist perspective let it be this one...There is no better treatment on the Trinitarian salvation of sinners than this...
God the Father elects, the Son redeems His people (Matt 1:21) and the Holy Spirit regenerates the lost bringing them to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ - The Father adopts those in Christ...
We all live happily everafter!NOT A FAIRY TALE!!!!!!
“Redemption: Accomplished and Applied” is a systematic examination of the redemptive process. The first part of the book examines whether the cross was the necessary means of redemption, and what the work of redemption accomplished. The second part of the book discusses the order of redemption. Short and practical, yet deep and thought provoking, this book provides an excellent break down of redemption.
While the author may be a very solid theologian, he is not a very good writer. I’ve read many, many books by Schaeffer, Sproul, Lewis, Pearcy, Bonhoeffer, Chesterton, Piper and more — Murray is by far the most difficult author I have read. At times, it would appear that he cares less about communication than he does about his arcane syntax and structure. For me, whatever substance he was trying to communicate got lost in his form, or lack of it.
Those with a decent background in reformed thought will find nothing new here but, like Machen's "The Christian View of Man," Murray writes so well that it is worth any Christian's time and attention.
Very excellent studies of every facet of redemption. The chapter on regeneration was, in my opinion, worth the price of the book alone (and all the others are nearly as good!). Read it for a better understanding of the redemption that is in Christ.
An obligated lecture for everyone who is looking for an adequate understanding on the doctrine of redemption according to Holy Scripture
Very good.
Real solid food much needed for us Christians.
A very thorough look at the order of salvation. I'll have a super lengthy review/summary of this work on my blog sometime this week. Too lengthy to post here.
Rich and crystal clear, this classic work on redemption pleads to be read over and over again. Highly, highly recommend.
Theological dynamite. Superb on the active obedience of Christ.
Excellent exposition of the Ordo Salutis!
