https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1568972.The_Vanishing_Shadow
While I was happy that Judy was indeed more badass and self-sufficient than Nancy (as the person who recommended these to me said), I was really bothered by the constant insults towards Judy's brother for being a "sissy" "mama's boy" (and also by the villain being a dude who wore pink nail polish)--it seemed like this book was saying there is only one way to be brave, that embodied by Judy and all the appropriately masculine guys.
Also, Judy's willingness to keep the promise that was violently extorted out of her was really ridiculous--obviously as a plot device it kept the story going, but teaching that keeping a promise (esp.
You really get to know charectors as they grow and change and find out mysteries together, like Horace and Honey and Peter and Arthur and Lois and Lorraine and Irene.
Plus Judy has her problems, like fighting with Lorraine Lee or chosing Arthur or Peter.
Plus you find out mysteries about the charector's life instead of just looking for missing items.
Horace's change of charector was great, and Judy's fear was very real.
This is a really fast moving story that will keep you hooked.It's no mystery that Judy Bolton is the best vintage girl detective series ever!!!
I'm working on a new project at work (surveying American girls mystery series, 1930-1960), and Judy Bolton was stop #1 in my survey.
The last half of the book, though, revolved uncomfortably around getting Judy's brother Horace (not so affectionately known as "Sister" on account of his sissy fearfulness) to act braver and "more like a man." Judy was so well-drawn and un-stereotypical (remarkably so for 1932) that I found myself wishing that Horace's story had found a resolution that didn't hinge on his manning up.
This is an enjoyable read involving a young girl who stumbles upon a mystery that impacts her entire home town. The characters are enjoyable and even a bit old-fashioned (which adds to the appeal of the book).One aspect that I thought was poor was the idea that one should keep a promise made under duress. However, the novel was written for a different time and Judy does come up with a way around it.
Judy and Edna overhear a conversation between two workman about the new dam that has just been constructed by the lowest bidder.
The workmen are afraid that the girls will tell someone about the conversation.
Only a girl with no integrity would take a bribe!
So Judy is kidnapped and held prisoner by the workmen who give her no food or water until she promises not to tell.
But Judy has promised not to talk about their conversation.
Because Judy is a girl with lots of integrity and about the same amount of common sense as a brick.And let's not forget Judy's cowardly brother Horace.
Basically, this all relates to the dam being built in a shoddy manner.)There's a scene where she's riding a horse that gets spooked by a train and she's thrown.Judy continues to think of Horace as a coward while she finds out some more about the dam.
It turns Horace shows he's not as much of a coward as she thought.Judy is, in some ways, a bit more believable of a person than, say, Nancy Drew.
It was published by Applewood Books, the same company that brought back the original Nancy Drew Mysteries.
The story moves along at a good pace & Judy is a likeable heroine.
She did not do quite as much investigating as you would find in a Nancy Drew Mystery.
It was published in 1932 & I assume that the story is probably set during the late 1920's.
I grew up reading Nancy Drew Mysteries & I think I would have enjoyed this series, as well, when I was a child.
She has a close but not unproblematic friendship with her brother, who was sickly as a child and as a result is inclined to be cowardly (earning him the name "Sister" from colleagues).Reading a book written in the 1930s can be a hit or miss affair.
The description of this series tells me that to many "Judy is a feminist in the best light - smart, capable, courageous, nurturing, and always unwavering in her true beliefs - a perfect role model."Judy Bolton drove me insane.Fearless, yet inclined to shriek.
I soon grew so impatient with Judy that I could barely keep reading.Definitely did not work for me.
I feel really bad giving this one single star since I have NEVER given ANY book that rating before, but this was not good at all.
The writing was so poor, I just don't understand how it went on to be such a long running series.
Loving Nancy Drew, I was really excited to give it a try since Judy Bolton is her rival, but truly the writing doesn't even compare.
I cant imagine sitting through another book, but there's something nagging at me to try one more since there were so many.
Unlike Nancy Drew, Judy Bolton matures and grows older in each book.
Nancy Drew changes personalities to a degree, as "Carolyn Keene" is actually a pen name of several authors.Judy Bolton has a brother named Horace, who in the first book has a timid and slightly effeminate attitude.
Judy constantly teases him about this and in the end Horace grows up and does something of a heroic nature.
He helps her in her cases.The mysteries are well written, although perhaps a few are not in deserving of being named supreme.
I'm currently reading Margaret Sutton's manuscript titled "Melissa of Dry Brook Hollow" which later became known as The Vanishing Shadow...book one in the Judy Bolton series.
Since this is published by the author's estate, it's not a well known book and I can't find it when I search goodreads.
I'm on ch 7, and although it's quite different than Vanishing Shadow, there are similarities and the author has introduced the same characters that are in the Judy Bolton books.
In Melissa of Dry Brook Hollow, Melissa's family is very poor, and her dad is a farmer and not a doctor.
I was introduced to Judy Bolton in the 1950s and I have loved her ever since.
When I got married and moved away, I left my books behind and they were given away.
Several years ago I started buying them back.
It's hard to find the ones written in the 1960s.
I love Judy's curiosity and her sixth sense about mysteries.
Sutton devised plots that usually introduce Judy to a new friend while she solved ghost stories, tales of treasures in hidden trunks, family secrets, and always with her cat Blackberry by her side.
Nancy Drew could never compare to Judy Bolton.
I'm starting a Judy Bolton reading group all of my own. Quick reads, of course, but bring me back to my childhood. I had forgotten how weak Horace was in this first book. It was nice to see how Judy met all the people who continue on in the series. These are so different from the children's books written today.
The Vanishing Shadow, 1932, is the first of Margaret Sutton's Judy Bolton series. I enjoyed the escapades, the innocence and the naïveté of the young people in the novel, who seemed totally unaware of the chaos in the greater world of the late '20's and 30's. It was great to be lost in a world where crime doesn't pay and the good survive misfortune to move on to new adventures.
Alas that I did not read these sooner, after Nancy Drew had made me sceptic of any girls mystery series other than Trixie Belden! Unlike Nancy, who never changes, ages, marries, and is perfect at Everything she puts her hand to, Judy grows, falls in love and marries, and, (if what I'm seeing on the covers is what I think it is), has children! All while solving unique and intriguing mysterys!
Haven't read my Judy Bolton collection for over 20 years, so I thought I'd re-read them. Just as good as I remember. Love all the "gees!" and "golly" and the words describing Judy like "spunky." Loved these books so much more than my Nancy Drews.
Pretty good, though the mystery itself wasn't that interesting or captivating, and it really bothered me how everyone treated Horace (including himself) for not embodying stereotypically masculine traits. I may or may not read more in the series.
The book ended up being pretty good. It was definitely a lot different than a Nancy Drew book. Not everyone is perfect. It's been a while since I finished it, though, so I'm not remembering enough to do a detailed review on it.
Another good mystery.
I really liked this one.
This book seems like it has a strong female character, which I will always be an advocate of! :)
I read Judy Bolton books many years ago. I liked Nancy Drew better but I loved Trixie Belden. It's good to revisit an old friend.
I loved this book when I was a kid, and I still absolutely love it now. This is one of those stories that you can read over and over again and still find new meaning in it.
The book was okay, but there wasn't much of a mystery, it mainly introduces the reader to the characters that they will read about throughout the series. Its a good way to get to know who does what.
I had a lot of fun with this book. I'd like to find more by the author.
I wish I had read the rest of this series. Tempo books and Archway Paperback were another publisher I read religiously!
A comfort read from my childhood. How interesting that now I'm a Bolton, just not a Judy.
The first Judy Bolton - a favorite series although this is not the strongest entry.I always preferred her to Nancy Drew and the Dana Girls.

Revisiting a series of mysteries from my childhood. I never read Nancy Drew, but read a few of the Judy Bolton mysteries.
