https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/149477.Henry_and_Beezus
In Henry and Beezus, he struggles to earn enough money to buy a bike.
Beezus offers her encouragement and support along the way, and Henry barely appreciates it.
I know Henry is just a kid, and I know it's 1952, but his sexist attitudes got annoying.We read the 1990 edition with new illustrations.
The kids wear updated clothing styles and one child even sports a bike helmet.
Henry has old-fashioned notions about girls and can buy a box of crackers for ten cents, but his friend is somehow half a century ahead on the bike laws?
Advantageous means useful and helpful.
Two big ideas I found in this book is don't be jealous and work on your own.
Henry is a teenager who always got jealous of what people had.
For example, in this summer, he got jealous in what the big showoff Scooter had - a bicycle.
I think we can't be jealous of what others had, because if you jealous, means you have desires on things.
Desires lead to suffering when you don't achieve what you want.
but I think as a teenager, we should try to work and achieve your goal on your own, because that's another way helps us to grow.
Although the title is a bit misleading (Beezus really isn't a core character in this story), it was still another delightful, timeless and funny story about the adventures of Henry Huggins. The main plot in this book is Henry's desire to get a bike of his own. I laughed out loud several times, especially at the antics of Beezus's little sister Ramona, so that makes me think I'll have to read the Ramona books next.
Escape from election year on Klickitat Street.Hearken back to an age when kids wandered around the neighborhood without fear and their biggest fear was not getting gunned down at school like the news and paranoid helipad parents tell them, but was rather how to prepare the shitty bike they won at a police auction (again, sans parents) for the neighborhood street parade.In his quest to get a bike, Henry suffers through all manner of torments, a mid-20th century Sisyphus who would eat dog food to secure his dream.
In her third book for middle-grade readers, Henry Huggins returns.
Funnily enough, I don't recall it being a big deal if you played with boys or girls when I was that age, but there was only one boy among several girls in my neighborhood, so it could have been more of a problem for him.Henry's dog Ribsy as much of a character as the kids.
Cleary makes it clear that a kid's problems are as real and important as any adult's.I am still mystified as to how I missed these books when I was that age.
There were seven chapters, each containing a story about Henry: 1.
Ribsy and the Roast - in which Ribsy steals someone's BBQ meat2.
The Untraining of Ribsy - in which Ribsy UNlearns to fetch newspapers4.
Henry Parks His Dog - in which Henry gets an odd traffic violation5.
The Boy who Ate Dog Food - in which Henry finally has a bout of luck.
And eats some dog food, of course...They were all very cute and would make for great bedtime stories for kids—especially for boys who like dogs!
This story tell of the life and struggles of young Henry Huggins as he attempts to earn enough money for a bike.
This book is very realistic is that it is set in and around Henry's school and neighborhood.
This problem he faces of how to earn money at his age is one that many children face.
Not only that but crazy, cheerful, and daring Beezus is just developed so well as to not be such a stereotypical annoying little sister but her depth and development throughout the book shows that change that all children undergo through life.
I think this was our favorite so far of the Henry Huggins stories. The kids laughed out loud at several points in the story. Ramona's hijinks were more funny than annoying (to us anyway!) and Henry's adventures were at the same time ordinary and just a touch past what the kids have experienced. A lifetime supply of bubblegum! A dog that learned his trick a little too well and also gets a parking ticket.And of course, the gem that still comes up in conversation at times: "There goes the boy that ate the dog food."We loved it!
Henry Huggins, Henry and Beezus, Henry and Ribsy, Henry and the Paper Route, Henry and the Clubhouse, and Ribsy – I was quite happy to listen to this collection of books! It was quitespecial to listen to Beverly Cleary introduce the book and honestly loved listening to Neil Patrick Harris narrate most of the stories. What a treasured character I just love remembering from childhood. I’m happy that I’ve been able to introduce my son to Henry Huggins, perfect for his age and life experiences from dealing with pushy kids to losing teeth to loving dogs to taking on responsibility.
There is no better comfort re-read than Beverly Cleqry, so being home sick I have been burrowing deep in the heart of Klickitat Street. Sometimes Henry's dismissal of his loyal friend Beezus is unselfconsciously sexist and annoying, but mostly the story of a boy who is trying to earn enough money for a bicycle with his friends' help remarkably undated. Also introduces the inimitable Ramona Quimby, who immediately steals any scene she is in.
Cleary's third book, the second Henry Huggins, and although Beezus makes it into the title, it's her little sister who steals the show, insisting on being "wound up" before she can move, eating only the lions in animal crackers box, generally demonstrating the iconoclasm that resulted in her taking center stage in seven of Cleary's titles. Highly recommended.
This is a great book for kids! In this book Henry tries to get a bike...I will Not tell too much more in case you want to read it...like I said a very great story for kids. Henry plus Beezus= TROUBLE It all started when Henry was at his house on Sunday...looking out the window...
Very cute. We love to read about Henry Huggins' adventures.
Told with a lot of humor, these books also hide a lot of understanding about what it's like to be a child, and how to think like someone who is very young.
I remember feeling much the way Henry did when I was growing up, so these books become a nostalgic read for me.
What I love is seeing how much my children came to love these books too as I used them through the years for homeschooling.
It amazes me how the stories never seem to really age or grow old (even if they are a little dated at times).
The Ramona books were some of my favorites when I was little, but I never got around to reading any of the Henry Huggins books.
Basically, this book is about how far Henry Huggins will go to attain a bicycle and how many times his plans are thwarted.
The chapters continue along these lines until one night Henry finally finds himself with enough money to buy a bike.
I don't think I'll read any of the other Henry Huggins books, because I am not interested in any of those books without either of the Quimby sisters as a main character.
Cute. I mean nothing earth-shattering but I love listening to these books with my son, Henry. However, poor Henry Huggins seems to not think very highly of himself. My cousin told me that she doesn't read these books to her elementary school classroom because the language seems so out-dated - which it is- but I think listening helps overcome that. These are just sweet stories. I have no doubt that we'll continue reading/listening to them.
(Just a warning there is spoilers in this review.) This is a great book for all ages. My favorite part in this book was when Henry finds a bunch of bubble gum in the parking lot and shares with everyone. The funniest part of this book in my opinion was when Henry hides meat in the bushes and still eats it. Overall this is a great book!
A classic. So nostalgic because Cleary captures childhood so well and my mom read this to me as a child.
I love how delighted Ellery gets every time Beezus & Ramona are mentioned in the Henry books. We also love how Cleary always puts seemingly innocuous details about something into the story only to have said detail be the solution to Henry's problem or thing that saves the day. I've said it before & I'll say it again: Beverly Cleary is a national treasure.
Readers also meet Henry's nemesis: Scooter, a boy with a bicycle and a paper route.
But borrowing the wagon means getting Beezus and Ramona to tag along with him.
"Ramona," coaxed Beezus, "can't you play that game some other time?""What game?" asked Henry.
"She's playing she's waiting for a bus," explained Beezus.Henry groaned.
Maybe the gum wasn't such a wonderful discovery after all."The Untraining of Ribsy" Henry has the opportunity to take over Scooter's paper route for a week.
But then he realizes that he can SELL his prize and get the money for what he wants most...
This book captures a snapshot of life for Henry Huggins and Beatrice (Beezus) Quimby, two friends who live on Klickitat Street in Portland, OR.
Beezus (and her annoying little sister, Ramona) come along side him at various points in the book to take part in various neighborhood adventures revolving around Henry’s scheme to someday get his bicycle.
It could be integrated into the classroom by asking students (2nd grade and up) to reflect in reading journals about ways that they identify with either Henry or Beezus.
E LOVES these books...and I think they're enjoyable too. I love how innocent and dated they are. Life is so simple in Klickitat Street.3/2018--just finished this one with Charlie. Swept through it in just a couple of days since he's been sick. He loves Henry's adventures and was delighted H ended up with a new bike at the end of this one!
I've been re-reading my childhood books. This was fun. What's funny too is the new illustrations with Henry riding his bike. He has on a bike helmet. I'm pretty sure he wouldn't have had one in the illustrations from the 1950s.
I liked it better than the first book. But I think Beezus needed more scenes since the title says  "and Beezus". :)
The characters of Henry and Beezus and Ramona and the dog Ribsy in Beverly Cleary's books are what made me fall in love with reading and eventually launched my writing journey.
Beverly Cleary is an amazing author love the book.
Love, love love these books! Its been a while since I visited with this classic from my childhood. Very charming and a fun read.
At first this book was very dull and boring, then it kinda sped up and filled me with joy.
Still as fun to read as it was in my childhood - and my son never blinked about the 1950s assumptions about boys and girls.
Which I guess for him isn't as true as I would like to think it is.Throughout this book, Henry just wants a bicycle.
He covets an older neighbor's bicycle, tries to save up for a bike, even falls in love with a (what else) shiny red bike at the store that he must walk out of his way to get to.
This is a great exploration about saving money, working hard, and being willing to make do.
And those differences between girls and boys?
As much as I like Cleary's stuff, this one is a bit dated and made me a little uncomfortable reading it.
Henry really wants a bike but can't afford a new one, so he buys one at an auction with the help of Beezus, who accidentally bids on a girl's bike for him.
Then follows much lamenting of the fact that he has a girl's bike and such.
Plus, he complains a lot about having to hang out with girls and what a nuisance they can be.
Not helpful, really, when you're trying to raise a kid to look past this sort of nonsense.
