https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1295102.Lock_and_Key
I am about to trash this book in the most spoilerific way possible so if you feel as though reading my review is not worth spoiling this book for you... TURN BACK NOW!YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED! SERIOUSLY THERE IS NO RETURN BEYOND THIS POINT! ...Alright, everyone gone? *cracks knuckles*I LOATHED this book. Holy fucking shit. I really don't feel like I can properly explain my criticisms without going into detail... so here we go!Our story begins with the arrival of Ruby (a.k.a. redhead, pale skin, kind
In the first part of the novel, we are led to believe that Cora is awkward, cold, and ultimately put out about Ruby's presence in her "perfect life." Jamie plays peacemaker, interacting with Ruby and trying to amp up her enthusiasm about making new friends, attending his alma mater (a.k.a. rich kid school where a burnout like Ruby DEF won't fit in omg), and potentially attending college.
Because she loves her husband, I GUESS.So up until this point, I'm thinking I've got a good handle on these characters.WRONG!After having a decently traumatizing conversation with Cora about Ruby's entire fucking life being a lie, she spirals out of control for a brief moment.
The reason why Sarah Dessen’s books make me smile, laugh and cry—and usually make my day—is because they are so genuine.From the dialog to the writing to the characters to the emotional experiences, everything screams authentic and realistic.
The unfortunate thing about Sarah Dessen’s books is that if you summarize them, you realize they are not very original.
So far—and I’ve read six books from her—I’ve noticed a few, one of them being that she likes to include businesses.
You learn some things about management when you read her books and I love that.
In this story we meet:~Ruby who is trying to find, and come to terms with a new life away from her 'loving' but negligent mother.
Ruby soon finds out things she doesn't want to know and whilst she's still coming to terms with her own adjustments to those around her she finds it difficult to offer the right kind of help for him.Cora (Rubys sister) who is trying to make sense of problems within her own life whilst having to build the bridges that were severed when she moved away from Ruby and her mom.andJamie (Coras husband) who pulls everyone together with his enigmatic personality and warm nature, and whilst Ruby sorely tests his patience he remains a positive force for her.
I loved this story, I especially liked the way Dessen incorporates Rubys two 'lives' and how Ruby interprets and evaluates her own actions.
so the Sarah Dessen Reread Extravaganza continued and this particular installment may not have gone super well but you know what?
you simply cannot win them all.this was just veryyyyy dramatic to me and the characters were boring and floated in and out of existence and there were just So Many Quasi Profound themes and ahhh!!
also it was very long.the progression of time also could NOT HAVE BEEN MESSIER IT WAS DRIVING ME UP A WALL.
4.5 starsAnother hit for Dessen! This one was darker like Dreamland and I really love that about it. It felt like I was there, a fly on the wall. I appreciated the MCs and the supporting characters in this one.
This book was so beautiful, it taught me so much and I felt so good after reading this book. The thing about Sarah Dessen's books are that it isn't always about the romance. There is a more important story taking place and on of the side stories is the romance. If the book only focused on romance, it wouldn't have been as impressive as this actually was. “We can't expect everybody to be there for us, all at once. So it's a lucky thing that really, all you need is someone. ”  A few months befor
The thing about Sarah Dessen's books are that it isn't always about the romance.
When Ruby lived with her rich sister, she didn't know what she was missing out on, she had a new family, who were willing to provide her with whatever she needs and money for new clothes.
Cora and Ruby's relationship is something I wish I could have with my sister, we don't get along at all..
The thing that I like about Sarah Dessen's books is how you could connect with the characters.
From all the books I have read by Sarah Dessen so far, I feel like this one is the saddest one by far.
"What is family? They were the people who claimed you. In good, in bad, in parts or in whole, they were the ones who showed up, who stayed there, regardless." Seventeen-year old Ruby has been living on her own for the past two months since her mother left. She has no idea where her mother went, and hasn't heard from her since. Ruby has been getting by, just barely but this is about to change when the landlords of the tiny house they've been renting, discover she's alone. They alert the authorit
Things were different when Ruby's sister Cora still lived at home, she sort of made it her job to care for Ruby and protect her from their mother.
However, Cora's been gone for ten years, left when she went off to college, and Ruby's heard little from her since.
You can't help but love him, he takes Ruby in with no questions or judgments made, always looking for the good, first, in people.
While, The Truth About Forever and Just Listen, are my favorite Sarah Dessen novels, this one is very good, too.
-Ruby gets absolutely no resolution, IMO.
Dumping the key is in no way symbolic nor is it realistic.
-Ruby knows better than to sit back and wait instead of getting up and helping.
I mean, Just Listen, you knew it was going to be Annabel and Owen, but when it happened, you were still super over the stars excited.
Reggie and Harriet, Cora being pregnant, Nate and Ruby, and it's all just...oh yeah.
knew that was going to happen.
(And you KNOW how much I hate to say that, because I absolutely LOVE Sarah.
My favourite Sarah Dessen book so far!
Before I read this book I was unsure about whether I would like it or not.
The things he did for Cora made me love him even more.
I loved Ruby's character development.
It was a slow process where Ruby assessed situations and then after some time, her negative thinking changed to positive thinking.
I really do love this book but there was something missing (I don't know what) and so I give it 4.5 stars, not 5.
I would definitely recommend this and I will definitely be reading more of Sarah Dessen's books.
I've heard quite a few good things about her so I was fairly willing to give her books a try even though I don't typically read teen fiction.
Lock and Key is about a seventeen year old girl named Ruby.
WIth her new life Ruby faces all sorts of challenges.
I had a few problems with Nate (the male star of the novel) and Ruby, but nothing that couldn't be overlooked.
Maybe it was character depth for Ruby or Nate, or just the whole plot confusion thing that got to me, or the swearing (which by the way is fairly predominant)....
Confession: even though Dessen's novels are generally cheesy and melodramatic, I could not resist picking up Lock and Key. The blurb made it sound good; unfortunately, it is not.This is the story of 17-year-old Ruby Cooper.
When social services is alerted to her situation, Ruby is removed from the house and taken to her older sister's home.
Cora, who is ten years older than Ruby, hasn't seen Ruby since the day she left for college.
With the help of her sister, her brother-in-law, and a few new friends, Ruby will accept help from others and blossom.Here's my gripe: I think the author knows one topic--wealthy and wholesome suburban teens.
a real life teenager!) until her sister told her what really happened when Ruby was a little girl, and then she was just...
a teenager, but with less real angst.And then it devolved into "I'm so worried about my boyfriend and what do you mean he's just like me, oh man, he's totally like me, I must have been a huge pain in the ass for everyone around me, yay kissing."I need someone to tell me if this is her standard book, or if I should give her a second chance, because I wasn't very impressed.
This was such a sweet book and a great look at family dynamics, siblings, friendships, and personal growth. I really enjoyed the well rounded MC and how Ruby is so far from perfect. This is a story about a flawed family and how you heal and learn to let love and other people into your life. I genuinely enjoyed the story and the character arc.
[Audiobook from OverDrive]I always love the narrations of Dessen books!
Ruby isn't a super complex/complicated character.
It definitely made Ruby easier to split from that world, but you'd think someone would complain about her going to a better school and having a better living situation.
World: I always love how Dessen leaves easter eggs from other books.
They never have a super southern feel to them, but always a nice cast of characters.
There's also talk about abuse, siblings protecting one another, manipulation, Cora's infertility (for most of the book, she's struggling to get pregnant), and the feeling of neglect.
But when the dryer fails at her rented house and the landlords notice a clothes line strung throughout the kitchen, Ruby's life is forever changed.
Custody of Ruby is given over to her older sister, Cora.
Cora and her husband, Jamie, live in a wealthy community and live a life totally foreign to everything Ruby has ever known.
Not trusting Cora and Jamie's intentions, Ruby plots an escape her first night in her new home.
Slowly, Ruby learns to adjust the new life she has been given, and develop friendships in the most unlikely places.
This book ended up being so heartwarming that I'm still not over it!
DNF at pg. 208. Too slow for my liking. I just can’t be patient with books that aren’t holding my attention when I’m this far into the story. Still love Sarah Dessen though.
רובי עוברת לגור עם אחותה קורה לאחר חודשיים בהם חייה לבד לאחר שאמן נטשה אותה.
קורה נשואה באושר לגיימי.
ורובי לא התראתה עם קורה 10 שנים.בלילה הראשון שלה בבית של קורה וגיימי, רובי מנסה להימלט ולחזור לבית הישן שלה ואז נייט מציל אותה בדיוק כשגיימי תופס אותה.
נייט בחור חתיך, חביב, מרצה שכולם אוהבים.
רק רובי לא מוכנה ליצור איתו כל קשר.ספר ממש מרגש ולא קיטשי שגרם לי להזיל דמעות, סקפטית שכמותי.
ממש אהבתי.
Lock and Key probably is one of my new favorites from Sarah Dessen, next to Just Listen.
But Lock and Key is different from her other books for the face that this is not the typical summer setting she usually do.
How she was able to cope with the changes in her life, to Cora and Jamie, to having new friends, and meeting and understanding Nate, their next door neighbor.
He is also very different from other Sarah Dessen boys which were usually the emo-silent-weird type but Nate is what you call the "role model" where he is very popular in school.
This was seriously an amazing stories.
Another of Sarah Dessen's best, this story is really about a girl who discovers herself and her past and what could have been when her mother abandons her, even though she has been an individual most of her life.
I'd naturally expected the pairings in the end (I don't want to give spoilers :]) but was still surprised when it happened.
Some parts surprised me about Ruby, but all in all, excellent book and would recommend it to anyone who liked The Truth About Forever, also by Dessen.
2.5 starsI'm 99% sure no other Sarah Dessen book can top Someone Like You as my least favourite book, so even though Lock and Key also got 2.5 stars from me, I liked it way, way better.
I've always loved Sarah Dessen's books and the fact that family always plays a huge part of them.
Unfortunately, the family dynamics was the only thing I liked about Lock and Key. Ruby's sister and brother-in-law are really portrayed fantastically and I loved seeing the relationship between Ruby and them develop throughout the book.
This one was not her best, but still extremely enjoyable and well worth the time reading it.The book revolves around Ruby, a seventeen-year-old girl who had been living with her mother, until she is abandoned when her mom walks right out the door.
Cora has established herself in a new life with a furnished home and her wealthy husband, Jamie.
Ruby also meets Nate, the amazingly friendly boy next door, whose nice nature may hide something underneath.
Ruby gradually comes to accept her new life and deal with her struggles from the past.Dessen's utilization of the lock and key metaphor throughout the book never ceased to amaze me.
A primeira foi sem dúvida a escrita da autora que é leve e deliciosa que nos faz ler o livro de uma ponta a outra sem nos apercebermos disso, sem nunca a mesma se tornar cliché ou demasiado infantil.
Apesar de não ser super dramático o livro apresenta-nos temas importantes e mostra-nos uma protagonista forte mas ao mesmo tempo frágil, o que me fez relacionar também muito com ela e daí que o livro também tenha tido outra carga para mim.O livro conta também com um pequeno romance, mas nada que se sobreponha à história principal o que me agradou também muito.Foi um livro que eu gostei muito e foi sem dúvida uma autora que me surpreendo muito.
É com certeza uma autora que eu vou querer ler mais.
Reaffirms why Dessen is a favorite of mine... she can tell a good story and make you care about the characters. Well worth it.
When Ruby's mother never comes home, leaving her to take care of the small rented house, keep their job bringing lost airport luggage to people, and making it to school all on her own for about three months, Ruby thinks she's handling things fine.
But her good-looking neighbour Nate slowly draws her into a real friendship - until she realises he's just like her, refusing to let anyone help when it really matters, and Ruby has to decide whether she really wants to be like her mother, running from those who need her, or like Cora, protective and compassionate.I have mixed feelings about this book.
(I'm also going to be meeting Sarah Dessen at NTTBF later on this month) I own five of her books and so I went to my shelves and looked at all the different synopsis's trying to decide which sounded best, and this one hit the nail on the head.
I HIGHLY recommend checking this book out, I had such an enjoyable time reading it and connecting with all of these incredibly unique characters.
I can't wait to pick up more of Sarah Dessen's novels in the future whenever I'm in need of a good contemporary kick!What are some of your favorite SD novels?
Reread 28/06/2015: new rating = five stars ♥I think it's been a while since I've finished an entire book in one day, but today Sarah Dessen made it happen again.
I've read Miranda Kenneally saying on Twitter how Dessen's books are like coming home for her, and for me it's the exact same thing.
I started reading them in 9th grade - back then I was still reading in German - and continued my obsession the following year during my exchange in the States, reading books in English for the first time.
So yes, Sarah Dessen books really are like coming home.
Though I'd probably give this book 3.5 stars overall because there were certain emotional moments that I think would've hit home more if they'd been given more room to be showcased.Full review:Sarah Dessen does such a great job getting into the lives of her characters, it's hard not to be drawn into their experiences regardless of the myriad of circumstances they might find themselves within.
The key metaphor carried throughout the book was a good one, and I liked how it came full circle in the end.It's a book of Dessen's I enjoyed - probably not my favorite in her bibliography, but still a memorable one and well worth reading.Overall rating: 3.5/5 stars.

I know I haven't read that many, but this is my new favorite Sarah Dessen novel.
