https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/681648.Grant_Takes_Command_1863_1865
With Grant fresh off his victory at Vicksburg, Lincoln believes he’s finally found a man who can lead the union forces and end the rebellion.
Grant wasn’t thrilled with the assignment for e knew that he wouldn’t just be taking over the Army of the Potomac and fighting the rebels, he would also be fighting with Generals who had strong political ties with Washington elite.
If you’re looking for a good in-depth analysis of General Grant and the battles he fought, I highly recommend it.
Surely that general would be hailed in history as one of the amazing greats of all time.But U.
Lee.Bruce Catton, in his quiet and cataloging style, gives the facts of the General, but the facts cannot hide the greatness of such a man.
How is to that the dogged and unrelenting Grant is not accorded such honorifics in success?However, the book often makes you forget that your reading, and depending on your interest at the chapter in history, you might turn five pages before realizing that you've read one.
This book really was thrilling because it brought me into the Civil War battles through a more personal lens.
Yet his western campaigns in Vicksburg and Chattanooga brought him into the limelight while the eastern Army of the Potomac (partly as a result of its micromanagement from Washington) was still lacking resolve and effectiveness.
While I've focused more on Abraham Lincoln's resolve before, it's Grant's courage, capability, and character that shines brightly in 1864.
While the North/South division is often clear in the Civil War, the leadership of western men armed with determination and resolve decisively move the politically-sensitive Army of the Potomac toward eventual victory at Appomattox Courthouse.
It also makes it plain that Grant negotiated a political minefield in assuming control of the Union armies in 1864 and often had the general-in-chief, Henry Halleck, working against him -- even CHANGING orders that Grant sent to field commanders through Washington.
“To this day, the heart of the legend that Grant was a periodic alcoholic in wartime is the story Smith told,” writes Catton, who then dismisses the gossip as nonsense.But the real heart of the book is in the details of the campaign that Grant built to isolate Gen. Robert E.
As in "Grant Moves South," Catton delves into the controversies - drunkenness, the high casualties of the Overland Campaign - and provides even-handed conclusions.
Once again, as with "Grant Moves South," I've given it 4 stars because the Kindle version has terrible maps that again are not actually in the right places in the book (a map of Chattanooga during the midst of the Overland Campaign is less than helpful) and the Audible experience is worse - the reader is incapable of pronouncing a number of reasonably well-known names correctly (Rosecrans, Meigs, etc.).
Grant Takes Command reviewThis is one of the best books on Grant that I have read.
Catton has done extensive research for this book as he includes many letters from enlisted and officers to their wives that give important insights into history.
The problem that I have with this book and others like it is without maps showing troop movements it is hard for the reader to visualise the important battles.
This book rates five stars for the depth of research and showing the vast complexities of war.
A detailed study of U.S. Grant's command of Union forces in the West starting with the preparation for the Chattanooga Campaign, in 1863, followed by his promotion to Lieutenant General and command of the Army of the Potomac in the Eastern Theater to the end of the war.
Detailed but not overly so, where you can get bogged down by tons of unit numbers and minutiae.
Place and river names are constantly mentioned but the couple included maps (ebook/Kindle version) are basically useless so it can be hard to picture where movement takes place unless you look it up on your own.
This is more than a history of Grant, it the whole Union Army lay bear with all its ugly warts... Grant shines through and Lincoln see this gem of a man in the Western Theatre and calls him East to Command the Union Army and what a excellent choice.
ExcellentGet a good nap of Virginia.You come to see Grant's greatness, no matter what hardship, what folly, what ineptitude, he found a way to implement his winning strategy. Couldn't put it down.
Catton was an excellent writer and researcher. Don't know if current historians would look at things any differently. However, I think Catton wrote in a less politically and socially charged era and I think that gave him more latitude to see it as it truly was.
Great readReally gets into the mind of Grant and what he had to deal with when given such a command. This is a great book for any young officer in the military to have in his or her collection.
A great soldier tempered by his undying devotion and returned great love of his life, Julia GrantHis thoughtful plans of battle were complementary to his boss' strategic plans...those of Abraham Lincoln. Together they won the Civil War.
A great book that is a must read to get a different view of the Civil War. Great writing. Great look back into history. Blended decisions made then with a historical look. Did a good job editing.
A great read!My first Bruce Catton book, splendid writing style. I read history, slowly and studiously, because if I'm going to take the time to read, I want to learn something.
Engaging read!Books have been written about Grant's war, but this books opens the full story of the difficulties of command. This is a must read book!
Great read!Detailed, informative and even funny. A must read. This book made me feel as though I was riding next to General Grant.
Bruce Catton writes an excellent book telling the story of the last couple years of the war. Catton excels in explaining the military, strategic minutiae, as well as the relations between Grant and the other Union commanders. I would have liked a few more maps and a little bit more perspective from the soldiers who actually had to fight a lot of these battles (especially since when Catton does incorporate this it is deftly done), but other than that there is little to criticize. Grant Takes Command is a great read.
Broad reaching, thorough military review of Grant's actions and character.The complexities and political intrigue of waging a war is clearly presented. The sheer logistics required to manage more than 200,000 soldiers at war becomes staggering.
Good review of the closing chapters of the Civil War focusing on Grant and his views and actions.
I could easily see myself reading the first two books in the series (as this is the third book of a trilogy about General Grant's experiences in the Civil War).This book covers the period of time just after Grant's forces captured Vicksburg to a few months after the end of the Civil War and President Lincoln's assassination.
Grant was the only man who could have been promoted to the rank of Lieutenant General and led the Union forces to victory over the Confederate armies.
A terrific book, well-written and well-researched. It tells the story of the relationships and decisions he made with his generals. His handling of the Lee surrender, and his relationship with Lincoln. Enjoy!
Catton's Grant has many political battles to overcome and is faced with winning over an Army of the Potomac that is not accustomed to leadership that continues forward, even after a setback.
And this failed and broke former Army captain now turned Lieutenant General and commander of all Union forces succeeded beyond the wildest dreams of anyone not named "Abraham Lincoln".Catton has an obvious deep affection for Grant and the impact of his writing has deepened my affection for Grant as well.
Grant from after the siege of Vicksburg (July 1863) until the final surrender of all Confederate forces in May 1865, including the battles of Chattanooga, the Wilderness, Spotsylvania, Cold Harbor, the siege of Petersburg, and the final victory at Appomattox.
Of course, there were also places I wished he would have moved on a little more quickly, so take that for what it's worth.As a reader with only cursory knowledge of the Civil War, I wish there were more photos and maps.
Likewise, more (and more detailed) maps would have made it a little easier see how each battle was planned and ultimately unfolded.Overall I enjoyed this book.
In the first half, Grant Moves South, we experience Grant evolving as a General.
In Grant Takes Command we still experience Grant’s evolution, but also his stubborn determination to win the war against many obstacles: Lee, the Washington bureaucracy, and the petty in-fighting between Union generals.Grant, we see, was a great diplomat, and only a great diplomat could have balanced so many opposing forces and held the Union army together.And so, Mr. Catton brings Grant, a humble likeable man, to life, partly by reprinting many of his important letters and telegrams, including some to his loving wife.
Catton makes excellent use of Grant's wartime letters and orders as well as the memoirs Grant wrote after the war.
What also refreshing about this book is that Catton does not shy away from pointing out Grant's flaws, mistakes, or contradictions even though he does take a generally positive stance on Grant's military career.
Having read the previous book, Grant Goes South, this was an emotionally satisfying book as we see Grant reach the pinnacle of his military after having started off as a disgraced former captain before the war.
I would highly recommend this book, especially for those interested in the Civil War.
This is the second volume in Bruce Catton's* two-volume history of U.
Like all of Catton's books, Grant Takes Command 1863-1865 (and its companion volume: Grant Moves South, 1861-1863) is well researched with plenty of detail.
Catton's clear narrative writing style makes it accessible to ordinary folk as well as historians.Recommended for those interested in the US Civil War in general and those who want to know more about U.S. Grant.(*Bruce Catton was one of the best of the many Civil War historians.
I still think his This Hallowed Ground: The story of the Union Side of the Civil War is the best single-volume history of the Civil War.)
Excellent, and strongly recommended for public and private sector types alike.
Gen. Mattis's take-away from the book was that commander relationships matter even more than command relationships -- a strong theme throughout that has already led me to gift several copies to clients, as relevant -- but also a fantastic review of how a headquarters / planning office can behave under exceptional stress.
However, befitting the position this book takes in current military education, I think it far over-emphasizes the Huntington model of civil-military affairs (even more so than Huntington himself).
Eliot Cohen's "Supreme Command" would make an excellent (if not necessary) accompanying read.
My take-away from this is a better idea and appreciation of Grant's strategy.
He was headed for the James to link up with the Army of the James (Butler's, sad to say) and have the right combination of force and position to close down both the Army of Northern Virginia (Lee) and the Confederacy (Richmond).
A smaller tidbit of information, when I used this for report in high school in the sixties, is that the charge up Missionary Ridge was made for the oldest military reason in the world; the soldiers didn't do so on their initiative but because they were ordered to do so, only not by an army commander but by their own division or brigade commanders, although they plainly saw the sense in it.
Fascinating, Fascinating look at U.S. Grant, who after George Washington and Abraham Lincoln, is perhaps the most remarkable American ever.Think about it.
In 1864 he's commander of the largest army on earth, and in 1868 he's elected president of the United States.Grant's reputation has not survived well.
It's been said his enemies were better writers than his friends were, but Catton treats him right.The most remarkable thing about Grant, this quiet, humble, unassuming man was that he was able to inspire people, not by standing up and giving a speech, or screaming or posing, but simply through his deeds.
This is the second volume of Catton's 2 volume work on Grant during the WBTS.
This work builds well on the first volume and has all of it's strengths.
Grant's western campaign is very interesting to read about, especially how he applied the command lessons he learned at Donelson.
His actions in Tennessee and how he was able to effectively pass command to Sherman in 1864 contain lessons still applicable today.
His role with the Army of the Potomac also developed, after some missteps, into a solid command performance.
1864 and 1865 were instructional in how he used the principle of attrition and maneuver to finally defeat the ANV.
