https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/50536.Bluebeard_s_Egg
If someone were to ask me to encapsulate Margaret Atwood's writing style in three sentences or less, I would show them the first two lines of the first story in Bluebeard's Egg: "When my mother was very small, someone gave her a basket of baby chicks for Easter.
The title story was one of my favorites, as was the story that included the above line ("Significant Moments in the Life of My Mother") and the one that followed it, "Hurricane Hazel." I think I liked these two the most because, even if they weren't fully autobiographical, they definitely felt like it, and I always like getting glimpses into Margaret Atwood's formative years.
"I'm tricking my body into thinking it's younger," she says, and explains that the pills will allow her to stay beautiful forever.
At the première, another, younger woman is wearing the same dress.
Disaster is averted.Afterwards, at the party, Carrie discovers that her husband has disappeared.
They have been talking about the stock market, which is constantly on the brink of crashing."Your husband is very funny," says Penélope, but without explaining what he said that was so amusing.
He has a present for her, a ring with an unusual stone."Why a black diamond?" asks Carrie."Because you're not like anyone else," says Big, but she knows he's not telling her the truth.
And I'm so happy to be able to write that, because the last few short story collections I've read, have been quite disappointing, with just one or two stories each that was really good.
But Atwood gives you quality all the way.Her short stories are very character driven.
Atwood writes beautiful prose, as always.
It’s not easy to find a book of such a good quality that at the same time is so easy and comfortable to read.
Although the stories often include suffering or sorrow of some kind, this was still a book of fulfilling and meaningful comfort reads.
No more short story collections for me.
If I'm going to read a short story or a novella I'm going to cherry pick them and not read the whole book , ie I have The birds and other stories by Daphne Du Maurier, I'm only going to read The birds.
I like a couple in this book but that's not enough really.
Atwood is very subtle within her use of breaking the fourth wall in “Bluebeard's Egg”, to address the reader, a very traditional postmodern trait.
Atwood uses metafiction as a theme of irony throughout “Bluebeard's Egg,” to make sure the reader is never unaware that they are reading fiction, the questions of whose reality the reader is reading constantly be questioned.
Another aspect that makes “Bluebeard's Egg” postmodern is the ending that Atwood has created for her reader.
The theme of intertexuality and metafiction are every present with “BlueBeard's Egg” and from central narration of Sally.
There was once a request for a day's absence from office that went like this :  My wife delivered baby.
I would like to take a day off and spend time with my family in this time of happiness.This became something totally different in the hands of another English user didn't it ?
While totally exaggerated and off the mark, I somehow found this to be true in the case of Atwood for her usage of the English language is what sets her apart from most writers.
The reason for the 4-star rating was that none of the stories themselves appeared exceptional to me and while the prose was brilliant, the content was weak.
This collection of short stories has come to represent “comfort” reads to me. Many of them feel quite autobiographical and realistic, with contemplative notes. Included are musings on (her?) parents, (her?) childhood, motherhood, and gender roles. They seem to have roots sunk deep in the reality of memory and nostalgia. There was none of the touch of surrealism I think I’ve detected in some of her other work, and yet also no grim reality either. I highly recommend this!
Point me to the nearest Lesbian Separatist Feminist Commune, will you? What a lot of heterosexual angst this book has. The male characters are cads and the women are in love with them and unhappy. I realize this is a book of its time, and the stories are about realistic women in realistic situations, but it has not aged well. Or maybe I just don't care for Margaret Atwood's writing. All of the stories were depressing except the last one, which was more of a personal memory and very sweet and lovely.
Loved the final story, but regarding the whole collection, I'm coming to the conclusion that I don't get along with realistic-fiction short stories.
If you're a woman, and you're having a shitty relationship with a man, this book will either depress the hell out of you or it will make you feel better to know that someone else knows how it feels to be a woman in a shitty relationship.But not every story was centered around relationships between women and men.
It's interesting to note how the entire book which largely deals with women and their relationships with men, is sandwiched between two stories that deal with parents.
The rest of the stories reflect how shitty relationships between men and women are at present.
I am soooooo happy right now. Not because the book is finally over, but because I am fulfilled by the very reading of it. This touching book is 13 of me. 13 beautiful, amazing, perfectly-shaped pictures of a woman I know as self and as friend and as human. Soft electric humanity. I. Love. It.
Atwood, I'm giving you another chance.
Maravilhoso, como sempre ❤ Acho que foi meu livro de contos preferido dela (e top 5 livros de contos já lidos). Recomendado!
Maravilhoso, como sempre ❤️ Acho que foi meu livro de contos preferido dela (e top 5 livros de contos já lidos). Recomendado!
this book is why there is a tv show about 1960s ad agencies in new york and not a tv show about 70s era canadian hippies.
canadians aren't always terribly exciting and the me generation wasn't necessarily as earthshatteringly special as books like this would like you to think.disconnected tales of disconnected souls in toronto, a city undesigned in order to be disconnecting and dislocated.like most things canadian, it bashes capitalism and shies away from being blatantly sexy.
I say this because I was forced to watch a semester of quality canadian film and I'm still very bitter about it.
I was forced to confront things about my own culture that I did not like as much as america and that's never happened before.
I loved Atwood from the very first short story I read from her. I just connected with her on so many levels and she kinda pictured above he human nature, specifically the females, in its true form, ugly and beautiful both at the same time. I couldn't finish this book, but I'd one day get back to it. I'm sure.
Bluebeard's Egg / 0-385-49104-2This collection of Atwood stories includes:- Significant Moments in the Life of my Mother- Hurricane Hazel- Loulou- Uglypuss- Betty- Bluebeard's Egg- Spring Song of the Frogs- Scarlet Ibis- The Salt Garden- The Sin Eater- The Sunrise- Unearthing SuiteMost of the stories revolve around the superb Atwood device of women in comfortable, "correct" lives, yet who are unbearably sad and alone.
Though they devote much of their time, energy, and life to caring for the needs of others, no one else cares for their own needs, particularly their emotional needs.However, Atwood does not limit herself purely to emotionally bereft women - "Uglypuss" tells the story of a disintegrating relationship from both the male and female points of view, and manages to make the reader both sympathetic and non-sympathetic to both parties.
Atwood has a way of letting readers peer into her characters' minds as they go about their days.
I think it's something special when an author can make an average human into something interesting and unique, and it reminds me that everyone has a mind that is constantly thinking.
I particularly enjoyed Bluebeard's Egg, The Salt Garden, and Significant Moments in the Life of My Mother.
Usually short stories I've read are allegorical; these weren't so much of that, more just a stream of consciousness look into someone's life for a little while.
Atwood og noveller. Hva kan jeg si? Særdeles god. Omtale kommer på bloggen min.
it was very good, my favorites were bluebeard’s egg and the sun eater and my least favorite was loulou. unearthing suite reminded me of my grandparents weirdly and made me cry. this makes me want to write short stories even though i haven’t written anything in years and haven’t written a short story maybe ever
Some stories I really enjoyed, others not at all.
Not my favorite Atwood, but not-favorite-Atwood is still better than most.
And this is something that continues on for the rest of the book, stories ending without real conclusions.
And right when things start to get interesting, the story gets super cryptic and ends.Then I finally found one story I actually liked, it's all about body image through a mans eyes and how all the women in his life seem to be getting more quiet and smaller.Eventually as I read (well listened, it was an audio book), these stories just started melding together.
Te ending of each one was just so anticlimactic, it was hard to tell when a new story started.This book was such a complete let down.
I think Atwood pinpoints the problem in the last story, when her narrator notes that "it will mean action, a thing I avoid when possible." I think that was one of the greatest disappointments--it seemed none of her narrators were active, engaging characters.
I *loved* Betty, Bluebeard's Egg, Scarlet Ibis, and The Salt Garden.
Scarlet Ibis almost reminded me of a Flannery O' Connor story, and The Salt Garden was just bizarre and wonderful.While I wouldn't necessarily recommend this as an introduction to Atwood, it's definitely an enjoyable read and has a handful of really stellar stories.
Don't be fooled by the title, for these short stories aren't exactly reinterpretations of classic fairy tales - at least not in the same style as, say, Anne Sexton's Transformations.
Atwood's collection is modern, and each story centers on male/female relations - often failed ones.
Bluebeard's secret lies behind a door we don't wish to open.Atwood's writing is so well-crafted.
. ."Personal, complex and subtle - these are the adjectives I use in describing Bluebeard's Egg and Other Stories.
While Atwood's stories may not have the action and adventure of a traditional fairy tale, her characters affect us, and their situations hit uncomfortably close to home.
En ollut aikaiseemin lukenut Atwoodilta novelleja, mutta mielestäni tämä novellikokoelma on toiseksi paras, mitä Atwoodilta olen lukenut.
Heti Sokean surmaajan jälkeen tietysti.Novellit ovat yhtä aikaa absurdeja ja arkisia ja ehkä sen takia onnistuvat tavoittamaan oudompia samaistuttavia tuntemuksia.
Esimerkiksi Betty-novellissa kertoja tuntee huonoa omatuntoa siitä, että pitää karismaattisesta, tosin ilkeästä miehestä enemmän eikä tämän aina ystävällisestä ja herttaisesta vaimosta.
Onko se hyvä syy pitää jostakusta?
Karismaattisuus on jännä http://yle.fi/elavaarkisto/artikkelit...Minulla tietysti on heikko paikka kertomuksille, joissa puhutaan hiusten leikkaamisesta.
Tiesin, että voisin seuraavaksi mennä kotiin kokeilemaan huulipunaa.- Se oli järkytys isällesi, sanoo äitini äänessään häivä eräänlaista salaista yhteisymmärrystä.
Mutta hän ei sano sitä kun isä on kuulemassa.
This is a difficult book to describe well.
Some of them seem like they will be pathetic, but are actually very easy to sympathize with.
Some of them are very strong and lovable, like LouLou and Yvonne and Emma.
This book is about the frustrating (mainly crappy) relationships that they are in or near, but it is never cheezy-empowerment-y or maudlin.
I had a lot of "that's so true!" moments.Bluebeard's Egg mainly relies on the characters (which are built so well!) and Atwood's voice (also so good!).
The language and moment-to-moment observations in these stories are great, and there are some really creative characters (notably Loulou from "Loulou; or the Domestic Life of the Language"), but some aspects of these stories start to seem perverse after a bit.
There is never any resolution, never even any particularly momentous action.
You know the boaters won't drown; you know you'll never know the fate of the cat.
Which, again, in any given instance, or even across a lot of instances, is fine and even salutary, but it grows frustrating to be told over and over that you're focused on the wrong things.
disappointed!
so many of the stories revolve around women who are entangled in crappy relationships with crappy guys!
stop!
i don't want women who stick with cads in lousy arrangements!
if this is to be a reflection of real life then i despair (and most of the stories really do read with a horrifyingly placid sort of reality)of course the prose was excellent and the tone was consistent but nothing struck me as /exceptional/side note: i strongly advise skipping all the way to the second last bc that was, imo, the best (although betty and bluebeard's egg were...
Atwood never disappoints and I say as as someone who rarely enjoys a book of short stories. But she's brilliant, as always. Perhaps too much so, as some of the stories struck me so intensely and personally that it triggered layer upon layer of anxiety. I lost sleep, I kept thinking of the similarities between character experiences and my own parallel life experiences. The story of Uglypuss really upset me. VERY well written but every story had a bit of a dark edge and I lost myself to that darkness too much for comfort.
My favorite, favorite book of her short stories, and my go-to book for comfort food. Favorite story: Significant Moments in the Life of My Mother. The stories here feel so much more tender than her later stories; more about being a woman than a feminist, although feminism still prevails; it's not as strident and overbearing as it is in The Handmaid's Tale.
