https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/960246.The_L_Shaped_Room
It’s such a drag being an unwilling member of the PC Police, scanning fiction from the 1950s for standard racism and homophobia and grilling authors about their gender politics, so that when you choose to read a novel published in 1960 about a 27 year old woman having an illegitimate baby you feel you want to lay all the righteousness to one side and jump into this different pre-swinging time, just as you would a Jane Austin crinolinefest.
Crass and cliched racial stereotypes abound and, lest we forget, this was how the majority of British people perceived "foreigners" living in Britain, and - at this book's heart - just what a taboo it was to be pregnant and unmarried.
"The L-Shaped Room" tells the story of Jane, a single young woman who falls pregnant.
To say more would be to ruin a story that initially felt incidental but became more compelling towards the book's conclusion.The L-Shaped Room brilliantly evokes a grim era when women were routinely patronised and made to feel guilty, and when being single and pregnant exacerbated this treatment.
Later, “I felt the emptiness of fear fill solidly with relief.”From the first page, it is clear that Jane comes from a “good home” despite, or perhaps because of her detached description of her new and unpleasant surroundings, “It might be rather interesting to talk to one” (prostitute), curtainless windows that make the houses look “like open-eyed corpses” and a damp pavement that “had that sweaty look”.The analogy of turning a corner in one’s life and the shape of the room could be banal, but is never laboured.
But it's a story of its time (late 1950s) with racism, prejudices and phobias.
The racial slurs towards Blacks and Jews are atrocious.However, if one reads this as a book of its time, this is a warm, heartfelt story of growth, including getting beyond racial slurs, class distinctions and the stigma of being an unwed mother.
Jane herself is ashamed at the beginning of this story.
Over the next 9 months, she matures and grows.
Jane is an endearing character.
I enjoyed the main characters and hope that Jane continues to find her solid footing.
I started reading The L-Shaped Room in Longreach, as I said, as soon as I'd finished Riders in the Chariot, which, is a good description of Australia under Patrick White's penetrating perception, sparing no one.
Come to think of it, the endearing character Addy would know and recognize the four riders in the chariot - Miss Hare, Mrs Godbold, Himmelfarb, and Alf Dubbo, all sainted souls.By contrast The L-Shaped Room doesn't have any malevolent nasty hypocrites, which gives the book an inherent charm.
And she made a success of it, working diligently and intelligently, standing her ground against a boss who would have been all too ready to take advantage of her, and rising above the gossiping customers who wonder why the actress is working in a cafe.Jane went home to her father, a reserved man who had raised her alone, at the appointed time and she found a good job in hotel management.
She was real, and I understood her, I cared about what might happen to her, and so it was wonderful to watch her coping with everything that life through at her, with new and old relationships, with her advancing pregnancy.This is a very human, character driven story.

I read this when I was 22 and living in London. It made me search all Lynn Reid Banks books for a while. Just thinking about this book is causing a rush of memories and remembered emotions. If just thinking about a book can cause that much internal activity, I feel justified in the five stars.
I am unsure if this was a commentary on the reality of the times (the book takes place in the fifties and was published in the sixties) or if the author is/was, well, racist.
The only thing that saved it for me was the idea of the main character living in this little room, that she fixes up for herself.
Ever since being a child, I have always loved this story line where characters turn a less than ideal living place into a cozy home, ie the boxcar children, pioneer stories etc.
Aunt Addy arriving on Christmas morning was a bit silly; why hadn't Jane previously mentioned her caring and unconventional spinster aunt as a potential source of support?If you read this, you need to be prepared for:"A surge of the powerful negro odour preceded him.""You might just as well describe your plot to a shop-girl in Woolworth's and hope she'd see its possibilities.""Do negroes have more teeth than other people?
Take it and buy a pram, and if your conscience bothers you, paint 'Down with Arabs' on one side and 'I like Kykes' on the other.""I knew almost nothing about little boys except that their need of a father was imperative if they were not to grow into Oedipus-riddled weaklings or even outright homosexuals."
( I may have been around 12 or 13 but I looked like I 8 or 9) I remember him looking at the both of us like I shouldn't be reading this book.
She objected not because of their content but because they were badly written, with poor story lines and they would be a waste of good reading time.
But putting it on hold again at a now different library I couldn't remember any details of the story.
It is well written with a good story line that flows smoothly and likable characters.
Of course, the viciously casual rejection of such people as being outside social norms and thus undeserving of respect resembles the attitude directed at pregnant single women like the heroine, something she recognises at least partially by the end of the book.
It's hard to imagine now just how shocking this book was when it came out, with its pregnant heroine, whom it refuses to condemn (she herself regards the sex that produced the pregnancy as regrettable, not because it was immoral but because she had it for bad reasons and because it was bad sex), and its practical representation of the realities of pregnancy, abortion, sexual activity, and female desire.

It must be more than 10 years since I read this book, originally bought for me by my mother but lent out somewhere on life's path.
It was appropriate though that on a wet day in March I happened across a battered old hardback edition in my local library and took it home for a happy re-read.This book exudes the feel of the early sixties, and is surprisingly honest about taboo subjects at the time - single mothers, prostitution, abortion, racism, and homosexuality.
Throughout the book, Jane's life twists and turns, never seeming to take the path you expect, but it is a wonderful journey of self-discovery.
(Both novels tell tell the story of an unmarried woman who becomes pregnant in a time when it was still unacceptable in most circles.)Though The L-Shaped Room had a much more sordid setting, it was more fairy tale-ish in its conclusions.
Characteristically, I prefer the latter.For a while, I was unable to put down The L-Shaped Room and I really liked it, but those feelings faded for a multitude of reasons (most of which I can't shape into coherent thoughts).Also, I must say in some ways it was uncharmingly dated.
and the main character drank like a fish all throughout her pregnancy.
The story probably stood up better then than now.
I do not think that you can look at this 1950s story (or the 60s) with todays moral standards.
If you became pregnant and you were unmarried it was a disgrace and you had three choses, A shot gun wedding, the unmarried mothers home and adoption or if you were lucky your mother would bring the child up as her own.
They were not allowed to wear trousers in the office, and it was her fault if she became pregnant, not the man (it was only natural for him to try, after all).
A few weeks ago I happened to catch the 1962 film with Leslie Caron on TCM and liked it so I tracked down the book, which I liked as well.
It is about a young, pregnant woman who's father has thrown her out and she goes to live in a boarding house.
It was, I surmise, a bit forward for its time as it does discuss abortion but at the same time was a bit backward regarding gays and blacks.
The film chose to make another character gay and I thought did a bit better job of it.
The L-Shaped Room is one of those books that was incredibly brave and daring for its time (1960) and I feel like I would have perhaps enjoyed it a lot more had I read it back then.
She ends up renting the 'l-shaped room', a shabby and dirty flat in the rough end of town, with prostitutes in the basement and begins to interact with the various other tenants.
My main gripe though was the blatant racism and homophobia, I know it was written in what seems like a completely different world to the one we live in now, but it was certainly difficult reading some parts.
I liked this book. It's a sad little tale following a pregnant girl/woman who has got 'knocked up' after a brief fling. It follows her life over a year and how she copes with it in an age where unmarried mothers are excluded and shamed. You do feel for the character but there were lots of points where I'd have given her a slap and told her to get a grip as she was wishy washy. Perhaps that's my personality but I do recommend you read it to see if you agree.
Stars Lynne SeymourCategory:Dramaafter 5 episodes I have firmly decided that the subject does not appeal.
So when I saw that Waterstones Gower Street is doing a ‘Forgotten Fiction’ reading group where they’ll be discussing Jean Rhys’ “Voyage in the Dark” as well as Lynne Reid Banks’ seminal book first published in 1960, I jumped at the chance to read this classic novel for the first time.
Although Jane’s position of being an unmarried pregnant woman who refuses to get rid of her baby must have been quite a radically liberal stance in her time, the way she describes people of colour and gay people is problematic and cringe-worthy.Read my full review of The L-Shaped Room by Lynne Reid Banks on LonesomeReader
easy to readI have really enjoyed reading this book and could relate to some personal experiences during the reading of it. It shows how times and attitudes have changed since the era this portrayes
I enjoyed the book more than the 3 stars might suggest but it is very dated and very racist - a refection of the time rather than Reid Bank’s attitudes. As a piece of social history it is very interesting. How attitudes have changed, thank goodness.

Leer este libro me ponía muy de mal humor,no podía empatizar con casi ningún personaje, todos hablaban y actuaban sin pensar, después les agarraba un ataque de arrepentimiento y al final de todo parece que no aprendían NADA (en especial la protagonista,Jane.).
Que bueno que el libro es corto porque no hubiera aguantado, por ejemplo, 300 páginas de Jane lamentándose sobre sus desiciones de vida y cuando alguien quiere ayudarla...Oh no, le están hablando “fríamente”.
Jane no es una chica incomprendida y sin amor, es que ella quiere sentirse así (por supuesto, ella está en una situación sumamente complicada, pero son contadas las veces que ella siquiera acepta ayuda)Al final del libro hace un contraste de cómo era ella antes y cómo es ahora.
Definitely a book of its time and full of outdated ideas.
The main plot point about the shame of being an unmarried mother isn't really shocking or relevant today.
Despite that, I enjoyed the book.
I like books written in the first person which this was – from the point of view of said unmarried mother Jane.
It was good to see Jane’s ideas about people change once she had got to know them: the old landlady and the black man who rents another room in the house.
Jane had preconceptions about them, but as she interacted with them her opinions changed.
Some of the interest for me is in how much times have changed.
Jane is unmarried and pregnant and experiences huge amounts of prejudice as a result, which is hard to imagine now (thankfully).
This could be a depressing book, but actually is mostly about the unexpected kindness of the people she meets and therefore isn't.
I think these reflect the times (it was published in the 60s) and are the character's views, not the author's.
As the book progresses, Jane is forced to change her views because of the people she meets and the kindness she is shown.
Although certain aspects of this novel (namely the attitudes towards race) do feel a little dated now, the basic premise of this novel is still excellent.
The reactions towards the unmarried mother in this story are presented in a heartfelt and genuine manner.
The way in which relationships develop and grow are quite lovely.
Having read The Millstone earlier in the year it was interesting to read another novel of a similar period, covering a similar topic.
Banks certainly presents 1960's pregnancy outside of marriage in a far more bleak way, although even here there are some signs that there are possibilities ahead.
4 1/2 While many would find this book quite dated, I loved it. In London, Jane has taken a room in a boarding house after she becomes pregnant and her father makes her leave the house. The house is dated and dreary, and the first night in her room, Jane sees bugs crawling out of her mattress. But she makes a home for herself and becomes involved with the characters in the house. I loved Jane's braveness and lack of self-pity. There are two books that follow about Jane and her child that I look forward to reading.
One of those books I've always intended to read, and glad I finally got round to it. Many of its central themes feel as relevant today as they were when it was written - from a gender equality perspective, it made me feel at some points heartened at progress made and at other times sad and reflective that progress hasn't been greater. A simplistic approach to the relationships between characters, but gripping and brilliantly written with moments of insight that sort of take you by surprise.
