https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/516074.Biggles_Learns_To_Fly
I'm not completely sure, but I think this is the one with the fatal love story.
It made a lasting impression on me.So Biggles, who's in his late teens, is a dashing WW I fighter pilot in France, and one day he makes a forced landing at this little French farm.
"My mag stopped," he explains to the beautiful mademoiselle who comes out to see what the biplane's doing in their orchard.
Biggles turns up for a rendezvous, and she's already escaping in a car together with her shady accomplice.Foolish girl.
Biggles pursues, his heart full of rage and grief.
Johns was one of those British men of a certain era with a biography that sounds that it can’t possibly be true, featuring more heroics, odd incidents, narrow escapes, and prolific writing than one would expect from any twelve reasonably adventurous people.
They weren’t huge favorites of mine, but I did enjoy them and they are excellent for researching early aviation and fighting tactics, such as they were; Johns notes that WWI pilots were not formally taught to fight, but had to learn on the job.
Possibly he would not have been so sympathetic if Biggles wasn’t back in reasonably good shape after his rest.
*does a happy little squeal*Does anyone have this same problem...you find a WW1 or WW2 book (not Christian) that looks interesting and hope, hope, hope that it isn't full of language?
So when I found several Biggles books at the charity shop yesterday I was a little incredulous.
I heard about these books awhile ago, and though they looked like good books for boys.And I'm sooo happy!
It is clean and Biggles personality and valor during his flying won me over.
I know my brother is going to love this and I'm hoping the other books are just as good.
Artillery were often shelling a position they could not see so planes were sent up to spot for them and the basic but effective signalling in use is described.
I had read many of the series but not this book, and was delighted to get a chance to read it as reissued for the centenary of the Great War. I'd hoped that Johns might have mentioned something of Biggles' family or home but this is not the case.To my mind the WW1 books are the best written of the series.
Biggles starred in many books but later became a one-dimensional figure as Johns wrote what his publishers told him that boys wanted to read.
As an avid buff of all things aviation since being a young boy, I can't for the life of me work out why I've just read a Biggles book for the first time! Amazing. I would have loved it 30+ years ago and I loved it now. Full of excitement. I have bought a boxed set of numerous Biggles books so can't wait to continue with reading the next instalment!
Biggles got off to a shaky start, but I was relieved to find that not only did he learn to fly but he also avoided getting killed, which is probably just as well.The book still reads well after a forty (or so) year gap since I last read it. Drama and excitement, tick. Horrors of war, tick. The occasional lyrical description of flying, likewise tick.
Decided on a change of pace and thought this was probably a good choice for a first Biggles book, given the whole 'learns to fly' thing. Very much a product of the Boy's Own "get the hun" mentality, and doesn't need a lot of intellectual engagement, but enjoyable.
To his credit, he picked up the art of war-flying with an aptitude that amazed everyone, particularly his flight-commander.I understand that some people have questioned the author's 'footnotes', but please, let's not forget that this book was originally written in 1935 – and anyway, I found the 'footnotes' most helpful and extremely informative, admittedly, because of my own personal knowledge of such military activities and aviation facts, being somewhat limited!What I really liked about this well-written book is the fact that the writer's own experiences have been credited as being much the same as described, in this highly entertaining story.
Although Biggles may be reknowned as 'for children', this is actually pretty well-written, historically accurate and perfectly grown-up in most of the vocabulary used.
Johns writes with enthusiasm and clearly knows his subject very well indeed.
This book is set in 1916-17 although written in the 1930s, set mostly in Northern France and reads more like a set of 16 closely-related and chronologically-arranged episodes, rather than a single novel.
Maybe Johns just became swept up in the excitement of his own action scenes.
This was interesting enough, but I can't imagine anyone reading all 102 Biggles books!
B2: This book is old, and its story much older (halfway WW-1), but I still like it. Why?It's thin enough to be appealing to young readers and contains modest adventures to keep them reading.But meanwhile, it paints a picture of England / France of a century ago.The coming-of-age of a boy in troubled times, not shying away, or playing down the horrors of death.
A trip down memory lane, so this review is nostalgia-tinted. It’s dated in various ways, but I really enjoyed reading Biggles again. This is based on Johns’ own experience as a beginner pilot in WW1, so almost felt educational at times. A very easy read, but at times sobering.
How did they let this man write so many books. Amusing at rare moments, but I don't regret not reading these books as a young girl. Also very happy to not need to be a war pilot.
I was, after all, a voracious reader from an early age and devoured book after book from very on at primary school I do recall that a lot of my friends read the Biggles books and talked about them, but I have no recollection whatever of having done so myself.
Biggles had a job to do, and did it to the best of his ability, and that was that.Captain Johns certainly knew what boys wanted to read, and he serves up well constructed plots that fairly fizz along.
anche se ogni tanto il tentativo di ricordare che è sempre e comunque una guerra cerca di smorzare i toni, senza però riuscirci.Probabilmente, se l'avessi letto da giovane, non avrebbe fatto altro che galvanizzare e mitizzare la figura romantica dell'aviatore coraggioso.Ma, dopo aver visto la parte più terrena del conflitto, resto con un senso di amaro in bocca...
che non credo passerà con i successivi titoli previsti dal gruppo di lettura.
Biggles spends most of the book blindly following orders and only really develops dimension when his friends start to get slaughtered.
Johns' portrayal of ww1 is highly patriotic however it is still filled with COs who get people killed just so they can punish their friends for not following orders, it has Germans who act like the British, it has pointless horrible deaths, ill equipped fighters and huge helpings of depression from Biggles himself.The pilots of the book have no radio, no strategies for aerial combat, and little in the way of instruction and training.
I first read this at about eight years old and the finer, and indeed many of the major, details escaped me; coming back to it now I find there's so much more in the book than I'd realised - fear and friendship and deaths and the sheer joy of taking to a new element.
The book's a series of short stories and we see Biggles' progression from uncertain Hun - trainee pilot - to professionally competent fighter, to his first brush with what we now call PTSD, all within the space of a year.I came across the description of the dog-fight at the bottom of an immense chasm in the clouds, and greeted it like an old friend.
Chronologically the first of the Biggles books It's a collection of related stories about Biggles' exploits as a raw youth in World War One. It is different though, as this has the quality of having been written out of experience.
The opening chapters really do convey the experience of a boy in wartime, qualities you do not find in his later novels.
And when Biggles outlines his cunning plans, we need to be reminded that in this book he is supposed to be eighteen years old.
I admire, however, how he always convinces his superior officers to adopt his plans.
Although written about 2/3 of the way through all of Johns' Biggles stories, chronologically it is the 3rd story in his career - following on from the two about his time as a schoolboy.Like the rest of the stories set in World War I, this is similar to a set of short stories - Biggles has adventures in the air (and occasionally on the ground), but there is no ongoing plot, other than the war.
Which is an accurate representation of what life was like for the pilots I imagine.As the title says, this is the book that covers Biggles learning to fly and his first days as a pilot at the front during the Great War.

I read Biggles books to my son, age 6, at bedtime.
He loves them, although I find I'm very adept now at reading a few lines ahead to abridge some of the more graphic elements or the less than PC references to the Germans.
Biggles is never as gruff or as cold in my readings although sometimes he is at a loss for words for up to thirty seconds.Biggles is quite moral and I have to admit I enjoy them as much as he does.

This is not a particularly well written book, and Biggles himself is a swashbucklingly arrogant, overly enthusiastic and slightly over-the-top character. However, there's a certain nostalgia involved when I read this (I remember reading this book as a kid, twenty years ago). It brings back nice memories as one of those early literary experiences of mine. Besides, I'll be damned if it isn't one of the most entertaining things I've read in a long while!
Most of the WW1 stories originally appeared in a boys magazine of the 1930s and if you know a bit about flying during the Great War and the sort of time span this is written over then you can start picking holes at it and my OCD for things like that just annoyed me.However I still enjoyed the stories and the book as a whole. I just imagined that some of the German aircraft were other types!
The Biggles stories from the First World War are probably the best, drawn as they are from John's own experience of air combat. Here we see biggles as a raw recruit - a very different sort of chap than the one he becomes in the later books. The backbone is there, however, and the stiff upper lip - and the mirthless smile as he squeezes the trigger of his Lewis gun...
Na zijn opleiding op de kostschool, krijgt James Bigglesworth (of Biggles) de kans om piloot te worden bij de Engelse luchtmacht. Na een korte opleiding wordt hij naar Frankrijk gestuurd om daar als nieuwe piloot acties uit te voeren tegen de Duitsers.Diverse korte verhalen.
Finally we get to hear about James Bigglesworth's first day as a pilot. This book is a sequence of short stories that takes Biggles all the way from training camp (a week or so) to 266 Squadron via a number of adventures.
I have read half of this book and so far it has been very exciting Biggles has got into the airforce and e has already become sergent after one proper fight. he woke up the next morning and he became sergent
This is a fun read full of stereotypes and derring-do. But within its brashness it probably tells the reader as much about life in the battlefields of France in WW1 as can be gained from more serious books. Thoroughly recommended...unless you're German...or French!
I read a few Biggles books at school and really enjoyed them at the time. Reading them now they appear to have lost something but are still better than average.
Re-read. :)
