https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/85418.Just_One_Look
Four stars from me for being a totally gripping and enjoyable read.
One of those books I didn't want to have to put down when real life invaded my reading time.There were a few snags though.
Coben switched frequently around a number of points of view and storylines.
It was clever and effective in furthering the plot but I felt it often slowed the build up of tension overall.
Just as we got to a critical point for one character we would be carried away to find out what was happening to another one.
Well worth reading:)
The story actually begins with a surprising admission from a prisoner serving a life sentence for murder.
What I can say is I was off balance for most of the book.
And, with one exception, I was never sure who the bad guys were.
But that one exception was a doozie.
The bottom lineI figured out some of this by the end of the book but not a whole lot.
Of course, those curveballs at the end were truly out of left field!
And the ending still has me pondering.
But isn't that typical with a Coben story?
I loved this book.
Although it was still a decent read much like his other novels, it could be time for Coben to change a little of his formulaic writing. The plot in this novel is so confusing that the last two to three chapters were devoted to explaining it all. It almost felt like the rest of the novel were just fillers.
Why is it when people hear you enjoy reading that they automatically assume that you read the same books they do? A neighbor reccomended this one. I don't think the friendship will survive. I may have to move.
Just One Look by Harlan Coben is a masterpiece of spellbinding, nerve wracking edginess, and heart pounding exhilaration that will leave you weak in the knees! Warning! You will not want to put this one down!! Just one look is all it takes sometimes to set your world tilting into the unknown.  "there are those moments when your life simply unravels. A loose thread pulled. A seam gives way. The change is slow at first, nearly imperceptible. For Grace Lawson, the unraveling began at the Photomat."
Grace's husband, Jack, is the photographer in the family, always snapping away, as if it was his duty as a father.
Grace picked up the photos that day, like many times before, always with a happy anticipation of what she will find.
Then he tries to brush it off by saying nonchalantly that he doesn't know who any of the people are, including the one Grace thinks is him.
While everyone is ready for bed, Jack suddenly dresses and drives away into the night without so much as a word or glance in Grace's direction.
This book was slow for me at first butMan oh man towards the middle I couldn't put it down! All of the connections with the characters and then the twist at the very end made me feel like I was right there with the family. Great book! Coben never fails!
"The stages of grief: Supposedly the first is denial.
The first is just the opposite: Total acceptance.
You hear the bad news and you understand exactly what is being said to you.
You understand that in a flash.
Your heart gives out.That was the first step-not just acceptance, not just understanding, but total truth.
That then is when the denial begins.
Denial floods in quickly, salving the wounds or at least covering them.
But there is still that moment, mercifully quick, the real Stage One, when you hear the news and stare into the abyss, and horrible as it is you understand everything."
I decided on this book so I could use it for my A-Z challenge since I love Harlan Coben and I have not yet been disappointed by anything that he wrote.
I love the writing style and all the mystery.
Lots of great twists in this one too and I loved that.I found a lot of the characters to be very intriguing.
I also liked how some of them were rather mysterious and remained that way throughout the entire story.
I would recommend this one to anyone who likes mystery or anyone who enjoys Coben's writing style.
But there is one face she recognizes—that of her husband, from before she knew him.
When her husband sees the photo that night, he leaves their home and drives off without explanation.
She doesn’t know where he’s going, or why he’s leaving.
Because there are others interested in both her husband’s past and that photo, including Eric Wu: a fierce, silent killer who will not be stopped from finding his quarry, no matter who or what stands in his way.Harlan Coben is like Taco Bell, you know his books will never disappoint and always so good.
Where has Mr. Coben been all my life?
This is my second book to read of his and they have both been heart-pounding and can't-stop-reading!!
This thriller starts out with a housewife picking up some photos from a local shop.
Little does she know her life will soon explode into chaos.
The ramifications of a 'wrong' photo placed in her pack are far-reaching and criss-cross all over the place.
Just a great book all around.
**POSSIBLY SPOILERISH--Some reviewers have complained about info dump towards the end, but personally I saw the breadcrumbs he sprinkled throughout the book.
I thought the ending was great!!
There’s no doubt in my mind that the man, the Jack, that Claire knew all this time, as her husband, was a truly loving husband and a cherished father to their two kids, Emma and Max. No doubt at all.I enjoyed the juxtaposition between suburban life and the popping up of questionable characters like Vespa and Cram.
I liked Cram, with the crooked teeth, despite his profession, he was so good with the kids.As I mentioned, the plot was a bit far-fetched, and there were many characters that played a role in covering up one bad act, with another, then another.
l look at the big pile of Coban books on my shelf. do i have really something to say about them? do i remmber any? well. yes one of his first novels which called in the woods or similar. it was brilliant. all his other good read but so so. means averge.
Harlan Coben manages to snag your attention within the first few pages of his books and then reels you in like a helpless fish until you are so ensared in the story that there is no way you can put the book down until you reach the end.
This book is no exception!
I will admit that there were a few parts in this book that were slightly far-fetched, but then again, reality can be a bit far-fetched sometimes.
Overall, it was another great suspense story from Coben.
If you enjoy his books, you will certainly enjoy this one as well.
Just One Look is the first book I have read of Harlan Coben. I was surprised, and I enjoy Just One Look. The twist and turns of the story and the fantastic ending ensure me to read another book from Harlan Coben. Just One Look highlighted the consequence of greed and how it affects everyone. I enjoy in Just One Look having a strong female main character who was determined to find out the truth. Just One Look also makes the readers think about Internet security. I recommend this book.
I see mixed reviews on this book, but I am of the opinion that it was exceptional.
I have come to love this author.
The mysteries are so complex, it makes me wonder how he comes up with all this stuff??Ok, so I quit giving book reports a long time ago, and you can read the synopsis yourself right here on Goodreads so I will forego all of that.
What I will say is that typically of Coben, you never see the end coming.
There are some of his book that are the exception, and I'm not saying if this is one of them or not.

Книгата има добър замисъл, идеята е интересна, но някак си, ми се стори леко повърхностна като съдържание и стил.
Паралелно се разказват няколко истории, които допълват основната сюжетна линия.Някои моменти бяха доста хаотични.Имах по- големи очаквания, може би заради вълнуващия на пръв поглед синопсис, но всъщност в повечето случаи ми беше доста отегчително.Историята се върти около една мистериозна снимка, а последващите действия и всеобща параноя са още по- загадъчни, и тъкмо очаквах нещо шантаво, но уви, развръзката беше много тривиална и обикновена.
Да, не мога да отрека, че имаше изненади, но не и това, което очаквах.
Финалът ми беше плосък и скалъпен.
My first Harlan Coben book: a nice, quick read. Overall, 3.5. Some of it seemed a bit outlandish, but that’s what made the book.
Man this guy is good.
I love the nuanced bits and pieces he always pops in: “Like every other parent, Grace only had eyes for her own.
The rest of the pack, uncharitable as this may sound, was scenery.”Of course this reader also loves an Aussie reference: “She grabbed a bottle of Lindemans, a decent-yet-cheap Chardonnay from Australia, and popped the cork.” Can I please borrow that phrase?!These little tid bits are nothing in the scheme of things.
Last page throw backs, and leaves a reader absolutely satisfied.
This man makes a reader satisfied and wanting more.
All good things.
This book seemed to have good reviews, but I didn't enjoy it that much. It moved pretty slow and I felt there were wasted pages. I hate to give bad reviews, but I don't think I would reccommend this one.
Ընտիրություուուն! Բոոոոոմբ!!! Պատկերացնում եմ՝ ինչ թույն կինո կարելի էր նկարել էս գրքի հիման վրա, եթե լավ ռեժիսոր ռաստվեր)) Սկզբից ամեն ինչ քեզ թվումա պարզա, սկսում ես կասկածել ինչ-որ մեկին, ու համոզված ես, որ վերջում հենց քո մտածածնա լինելու: Բայց չէ, էս էդ դեպքը չէր: Ինչքան կարդում ես, էնքան ավելի խճճվում ես, որտև շատ խառնա ամեն ինչ: Ու մինչև վերջին պարբերությունը չկարդաս, չես իմանա, թե ինչա էղել իրականում: Բառիս բուն իմաստով ՎԵՐՋԻՆ ՊԱՐԲԵՐՈՒԹՅՈՒՆԸ!!!Մի խոսքով, շատ տպավորված եմ: Գազան դետեկտիվ շատ սիրուն ձեռագրով: Կոբենը ՊԱՊԱՅԱ!!!ԿԱՐԴԱԼ ԲՈԼՈՐԻՆ!Հ.Գ. Սրա պատճառով էսօր անշնորհքություն եմ արել՝ սենյակիցս դուրս չեմ էկել, որ հյուրերին դաժը բարևեմ :D
I like Harlan Coben’s writing style.
He manages to hook you from the beginning.
I like his focus on the characters.
Overall, I liked this book, mainly because of the hook and because of the character development.
There were just so many threads thrown in it felt knotted up.
Even with all the different threads, he did manage to throw in some zingers that left me saying “genius”.
So I give the story 3 and the author 4.I have read his later stuff and found from reading this particular book, that he re-purposed a lot of his one-liners and even a character in later books.
This is my first Harlan Coben and I have no idea how I've lived this long without reading one of his books.
On the road so fortunately I read (listened to is more accurate) it for hours at a time.
I even listened in the car for an extra 15 minutes a couple of times.
Now that I have been anointed, I won't walk pass a Harlen Coben book again without picking it up.
The End No spoilers About 75 pages from the end (knowing of course the end is near) I was thinking, 'ho-hummmm' another three star review.
Harlan Coben knows how to write a story.
New title, new character names, same plot.I've read 8 books by Mr. Coben--some with Myron Bolitar, about 5 of the 8 not.
I've read 8 books by Mr. Coben (6 Years, Caught, One False Move, Just one Look, The Woods, Deal Breaker, Gone for Good and Miracle Cure.) With the exception of Miracle Cure--his 1st novel and Just One Look, since I just finished it yesterday--I cant tell you a thing about all the others.
Will I read more Coben novels?
Once you've read one Coben book, you've read them all.I'm rating this 2 stars.
Coben delivers thrills and plot surprises which are the very definition of a rollercoaster ride and has an uncanny eye for portraying how everyday folk cope with new-found pressures and the angst that these occurrences bring.Living in the heart of suburbia and with a comfortable lifestyle, Grace Lawson's memories of her traumatic past seem way behind her.
Married to Jack Lawson, a man who she met in the South of France after leaving the U.S. she accepted his story of having distant parents and a sister he was never close to.
This was my second Harlan Coben and listened to this one because Brandie recommended it. Well, it was such a quick but good listen I am so happy I picked it up. The mystery was good. There were so many parts of it that I never could fully put it together. I was on the edge of my seat and man that ending!!! Totally got me which I love. Definitely more Haran Coben in my future.This review was originally posted on Rebel Mommy Book Blog
This is my first Coben book.
While I felt for Grace who finds herself in a horrible situation, I just didn't really connect with her.
Wu was an incredibly creepy killer.
The details that emerge about his past and his knowledge of the human body are incredible and bizarre.
I was more interested in him and his connection to Grace and her family than I was in some of the other aspects of this book.
Overall, this book is hard for me to review.
I have two other Coben books in my pile that I'm planning to read.

I read this ENTIRE book in one long summer day! Coben definitely knows how to keep things moving.
Loved it! Very unusual twists and turns. Never expected the ending.
