https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30271.Incubus_Dreams
I am not kidding; she has some form of sex like a half dozen times in a few hour time period.Eventually, after whining endlessly about how awful it is to have a harem of men that willingly want to have sex with her, Anita goes to find out who's killing the strippers in THE most abrupt transition I have ever read in an Anita Blake book.
It is a badly written, poorly executed, bloated, boring, dull insipid, whiny teenaged wet dream that ought to have STAYED on FanFiction.net instead of making its way into the published world.Let's just get this out there: Anita Blake is a Mary Sue, pure and simple.
Sure, there is supposedly a serial killer case, but there are probably 50 pages of the almost 600 pages devoted to it.
The rest of the book is devoted to Anita arguing with her lovers and screwing every male with a pulse.
There is one part of the book where Anita, Jean Claude, and Richard have an argument in a bed that lasts for 50 pages.
That is the same amount of time devoted to the actual serial killer.
Personally, I would rather have been killed by the serial killer than to read this conversation.
I have read the next two books after this.
Hamilton, you've probably heard her go off about how all her books are a "full meal" and such, but over the huge duration of this novel, she somehow manages to not resolve the main storyline: the vampire serial killer(s).
Oh, and of course, if Anita happens to have sex with a perfect stranger, we get a twenty-page narration consisting of, "Oh, that probably wasn't a good idea." I'm just tired of the whole idea of the ardeur (which is bad, since it was only introduced three books ago), mainly because it's getting in the way of the mystery/action/suspense plots.And what was up with the terrible spelling/grammatical errors?
Incubus Dreams: Wherein Anita Gathers Superpowers Like Beads at Mardi Gras (and in much the same way you earn beads at Mardi Gras).I tried to do live updates in the comments while reading this, but had to stop just over halfway through the book.
She just flails, and we get eyeball-searing sex scenes and what I thought was going to be a bad but entertainingly outraging read turned into something that ended up feeling like an endurance test.
The number of times Richard appears on the scene and should basically be shut down with "Not your business, turn around and get out" is infinite, but Anita never does, she just delves once more into his multilayered bullshit.
If I wanted to read about unusual and alternative sexual relationships, I’d read the Beauty series by Anne Rice.Unfortunately I do love this series, and will continue to be a faithful reader and fan My one wish is that the adeur thing would be cooled down a bit, maybe even become a “skill of the past” ..
Leave her current relationships alone, maybe kill off a few guys and we might just have a series about a vampire hunter and bloody brains without every other page discussion what it takes to orgasm our way through an adeur feeding.I recommend this book to anyone that has read this series from the beginning.
Yet another one of my faves in the Vampire Hunter series. A lot of fans are against the current storyline and how Laurell has turned the lead character into a full-blown Succubus, but I know she has a plan and we just have to be patient and wait for it all to unravel. If she were a man writing such detailed sex scenes, no one would have a problem with it. Sorry, but this is the 21st century. I have yet to see her write anything that didn't have some semblance of purpose as the storylines progress from book-to-book.
Holy mother of God. I remember reading the reviews for this book - they said there was a lot of sex.
How much can a person (I mean the person reading not the person experiencing :P) take?
Was it just me, or were there tons of spelling mistakes too?Oh, and as a lot of people reviewing on Amazon pointed out, all the open threads Hamilton left from the previous books were completely untouched and unexplored.
I mean, I suppose it followed well from her latest books - more and more sex as they progress.
(Before or after reading the book.) Also, I'm not saying the sex wasn't great.
I have about 20 pages left of this book to read and I am having the hardest time finishing it.
The reason I have read the books until this point is that I read the first 5 or so and they were ok, so I bought 6 through 12 thinking that they would be similar.
There is way, way, way too much sex in these books.
It's the reasons for it - she has to have sex to save people or to supress a hunger or to get information or some other metaphysical BS.
When I started reading this series, it was for a great crime/action/paranormal book.
But somewhere around book 10, or maybe a little before, I lost my great action novel and apparently started reading erotica with the same series name.
It feels like old times again and we start out with a good mystery to think about.
Anyway, sometime in the last maybe 150 pages or so, the author remembers that she started a plot somewhere in the beginning, and maybe she should conclude it before Anita's legs fall off.I'm going to read the reviews for the next books, and hope I find something promising because I loved the first few.
(Original review Jan 2007)Overall 2/5Story 2/5 Re-Readability 3/5Characters 2/5There’s a plot here. I’m sure. I read through all 752 pages of this, the 12th Anita Blake novel, and there were vague hints of a plot toward the end. I think. The rest of the book, though, should have been subtitled, “How I Stopped Worrying and Came to Love Wanton Sex.”I mean, really. By the end of the first chapter, Anita — erstwhile vampire hunter and current multi-discipline sex queen of St Louis — has boffed two s
By the end of the first chapter, Anita — erstwhile vampire hunter and current multi-discipline sex queen of St Louis — has boffed two strangers.
By the end of the book pretty much every lycanthrope or vampire Anita’s run across — certainly every series regular — has gotten down and dirty with her.There are a few moments where there’s, well, interesting stuff happening.
We’re here for the hot, sweaty, and other-fluidly vampire-necromancer-lycanthrope sex, right?
I also liked the zombie raising that we get to see, and how the growth of Anita's power in other areas of her life impacts on her natural abilities.However the crime that is introduced at the very start of the book is only mentioned infrequently until the end when it gets solved, and I disliked one very significant plot development that takes place in Incubus Dreams and that is (view spoiler)[Anita's secondary triumvirate; which consists of Anita, Nathaniel and Damien.
This also slows the story and detracts from the more interesting parts of the plot.Overall I found Incubus Dreams to be the slowest and least entertaining book so far in my re-read of this series.
I have officially given up on Antia! After the last two books gave me a serious case of squint-eye, I had almost given up, but I decided to give Anita the benefit of the doubt one more time and try and ignore the fact that she now seems to have sex with every single male character in the series.Well, I tried, peeps. Really, I did. But I have to draw the line at this one. It's devolved into Erotica sprinkled with only the tiniest morsels of paranormal plot, and I don't even read Erotica.This se
After the last two books gave me a serious case of squint-eye, I had almost given up, but I decided to give Anita the benefit of the doubt one more time and try and ignore the fact that she now seems to have sex with every single male character in the series.Well, I tried, peeps.
LKH needs the memo that you can't just switch genres on your readers half way through a series and not expect to lose most of them because of it.Apart from the fact the books are now boring and somewhat icky to read, they also feel very disingenuous.
She goes from hardass, kick-ass, screw-you (not literally though) heroine into Anita Blake sex kitten who sometimes kills vamps when she’s not having metaphysical three way sexy time and other random sexy time to tame that damn ardeur.
However, the true villain is the ardeur which has replaced Anita with a sexy pod person enslaved to rampant boot knockin’)Damn you, ardeur.
DAMN YOU!The book is slooooooooow.Then Anita straps it on (her Browning yah pervs) and there is a good, tense scene where she actually lives up to her Executioner title.
But it’s at the end, so if I were you I’d skip to that first and say you’d read the rest.Did I mention the book is slow?
But I've come to realize that I don't read this series for her, I read it for the other characters.Incubus Dreams has Anita knee deep in a vampire serial killer case.
Some vampire group is killing female strippers and everything seems to point to the Church of Eternal Life and their master, Malcolm.
And let's not forget my boy Jason - he's still here and still going strong as my favorite character.But I've also noticed a shift in Hamilton's writing here.
I hope that Hamilton starts to reign it in and get back to what it began with before it just becomes a series about sex.
I'm a bit OCD when it comes to finishing books, and series.
I tried to read ID for weeks and got only 1/2 way through, considering I usually finish a book in a couple of days, that's really saying something.
It's just one giant mess.I have no problem with the sex, I generally have no problem with a character driven story, and I have no problem with a 'plot light' book.
This is the first series ever that I didn't finish.
I started reading the Anita Blake series two weeks ago...while at the beginning it seemed interesting, though just another vampire book, now I'm starting to that this is a complete waste of time.The most important thing about this book is that Anita has a lot of sex.
Unfortunately, sex is not just a little spice added to the plot of the book.
Sex is about everything that happens in this book.
However, this book has reached a point where sex is not even interesting anymore.I was utterly disappointed, no plot, just sex.
This is not the way to write a book.
First, the cast list:Of the vamps, we saw plenty of Jean-Claude and Damian, plus Buzz (who hasn't been around much lately) and Malcolm, plus we were introduced to Requiem, Byron, Wicked, and Truth.
Oh, and several phone calls with Marianne.Not as full of a reoccurring cast as the last two books, but all the principals were onstage except for Asher, who we saw dead to the world in Jean-Claude's bed, but never awake and aware.Spoilers beyond this point....This was the third book in the triad where the ardeur first held sway.
During the three books, Anita moved Jean-Claude's lover's lists of guys from her heart into her bed.
She also called to herself a new Tri, bringing more power both to her and to Jean-Claude and Richard.
After a very strong start with Guilty Pleasures & Laughing Corpse this series has taken a drastic turn from it's well written and exciting mystery/modern fantasy action beginnings into a embarrassingly disconnected plot nightmare sandwiched in between more and more descriptive and frankly unbelievable sex scenes.The main character, Anita Blake, has evolved from a near virgin, vampire hating, stickler for the letter of the law to a cold blooded murdering "I'll sleep with anything within a 5 mile radius whore".Talk about character development.Initially the series was very intent about making connections between Anita's developing powers and solving the big murder to stop the bad guys.
Her relationships dominated for the majority of this story so much that by the time that she got back to a crime scene I had forgotten that crimes were even occurring.
Her work has become a side note and the magical powers that she is trying to control and the new ones that are developing, along with her personal relationships is what this book is really about.
Honestly, a lot of the problems with Anita's loss of control with her power is her own fault and it frustrates me.
=(Overall, this is one of my favorite Anita books.
No need to get excited though as it's only a small moment before we get back to the sex with the beautiful creatures.As expected at this point in the series, the book features lots of sexual tension with Nathaniel (he of the beautiful violet eyes and desire to be bound and beaten) and Damien, and Asher, and Richard, and Jean Claude and Micah and .
When the book begins Micah is Anita's #1 bed-mate and partner but as the book progresses Nathaniel finally moves up a little in the ranks.
Hey, where can I get a Nathaniel, anyway?Like my review, the plot is all over the place.
some parts I enjoyed while others I was thinking "okay, i get the point can we move on?" at times it almost felt like two different books.i'm not a prude, i don't mind hot sex scenes in a book...
It was interesting learning new tidbits about the Ardeur and Anita controlling it but for me it got tiresome seeing one sex scene then a few pages later...
THIS IS THE WICKED TRUTH BOOK
The only one who doesn't buy the fake-out is Anita.There are some pluses in Incubus Dreams, the Wicked Truth is absorbed in to Jean-Claude's family; Richard, Anita, and JC finally merge their triumvirate; and, it ends with Asher, Richard, and other friends helping to convert Damian’s basement coffin room into a space of his own.The CharactersAnita Blake is a 26-year-old necromancer with a high kill-count in taking out vampires and other monsters as well as a Federal Marshal.
Anita is never sure with Jean-Claude if he's maneuvering her for power or simply from love.Richard is Ulfric of the Thronnos Rokke clan of werewolves.
It is an irrelevant distraction from who Anita is, what matters to her and what she does – and the whole thing was just used as a vehicle to describe Anita’s relationship with Nathaniel anyway, with only a brief consideration of the bride and groom.Then there’s Ronnie and her issues – again, taking up pages and pages from a character who has all-but been dropped from the series and ends up being, yet again, another vehicle to talk about Anita’s issues.Except for one, painfully brief, wave from the plot we actually get through 30% of this book without anything substantial happening.
This book epitomizes all that went wrong with this series.
And there were several developments that would be enough for several books, which might be cool if they were followed up in either the book or the series.
But I don't think Hamilton had any clue any longer (if she ever had) about where she wanted to take this series.
In this 750-page book, if you took away the chapters-long sex scenes, you'd have a novella.
In the earlier books we were teased about where the triumvirate of Jean-Claude/Anita/Richard might lead.
Now Im reading this just for laughs.
Luckily, it's full of them.Edit: Not nearly enough laughs...
Words/phrases used way too often:- it was as if...- intercourse- "only intercourse is sex, or am I being too American?"- all-the-adjectives ie.
Oh, you're such a man!/You so badass!/I want intercourse with you as does every f#ing man (gay or straight) in this book/You so wise/Me so horny...
oh sorry, the last one might actually not be in the book...
you read right)and a million sarcastic plusses for using the term "rainmaker".
And the word else as "elts".
I kept reading the books because I had loved the first 5 or 6 of them, at this point I was wondering why I still kept reading them - to tell the truth, I guess I keep hoping that there will be some further character growth, and that the series will return to its roots of an ass-kicking heroine who has a very unusual job
There is a small break of about three or so pages for Anita to make a trip to the office (where she ends up having sex), another minor break for her to raise a zombie and put it back to rest (but guess what she stops for on the way there?), and even a couple of minute respites for shooting vampires and arguing with an ex-boyfriend (who she ends up sleeping with again).Don’t get me wrong here folks.
I don't begrudge an author a little steam in a novel, really I don’t.
You want to know if I can’t find just one good thing about this novel.
She is the one that ties the arrangement together.Third, we have the (finally) joining of the first triumvarete (yeah my spelling sucks) Anita, Richard and Jean-Claude.
Anita is stuck in the middle there too -- She is a good guy in that she is a MARSHALL and has the power to chase after those that kill.
And she is the EXECUTIONER, with the power to kill.Twice, Laurell mentions the two sides of the same coin thought.
this is the true "plot" of the book...the conflicting thoughts in Anita's mind.
If you’ve read one Anita Blake book, you’ve read them all… Actually, this wasn't always the case, but lately, since Anita lost all or most of her scruples, we just find her in bed with a bunch of guys, vamps, lycanthropes, every few pages.
I’m starting to feel like I did with Jean M.
I feel like half the book is arguing about who she can or can’t get it on with and the other half is her throwing caution to the wind and getting it on.
And THAT, my friends, reads more like romance novels than it does Anita Blake, executioner.
I was ready for another big show down between Jean Claude and the invading vamps, but it never happens.
