https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/466432.Down_the_Garden_Path
Rating Clarification: 4.5 StarsThis is one of those books that would have forever remained hidden from my reading world without the auspices of Goodreads in general and my GR buddy Leslie in particular (to Leslie - thanks for your squee-worthy review which led me to read this).Written in the early 30's by a witty, jazz-age playwright (a man with the unfortunate first name of "Beverley"), Down the Garden Path chronicles Nichols' attempts to cultivate the garden of his dreams in the rural midlands of England.
Nichols is by turns catty, euphoric, urbane, sly and cocky.
Shelley, long before the appointed time, unloosed, with trembling fingers, the starched ribbons which bound the dress of Poetry.”  So yeah, that’s how Mr. Beverley Nichols begins his little book about how he began his first proper garden.
Even before reading that bit of perfect loveliness I knew I’d like this book but couldn’t be sure I’d love it.
Surely one is justified in spending a few hours in studying the results?” After reading that bit, I suddenly remembered a lovely potted Amaryllis I had seen this week at the grocery store of all places.
If Noel Coward wrote gardening books instead of musicals, they might have been something like  Down the Garden Path: campy, sentimental, and wise. Short chapters and pleasant associations make this a classic in my bedside book genre.
Through transforming his newly purchased property into an admired landscape, he tells us of his misadventures, visitors, and nosy neighbors in such a way to have the reader feel very much in the confidence of an entertaining and close friend.
His account is a down to earth journal, where he opts to write articles for publication in order to earn enough to purchase more plants for his garden.
His obvious delight in both understating his accomplishments and overstating his adventures makes me wish to, like him, wander through gardens, with a drink in hand, laughing at the rest of the world's folly.
A book about gardening restoration is not something I would usually read, but there was something very appealing about this trilogy.
However, I think I probably have the best books still to read, as it seems some people believe the other gardening trilogy starting with Merry Hall is better than this one.
Yet, I thoroughly enjoyed this one.“I bought my cottage by sending a wireless to Timbuctoo from the Mauretania, at midnight, with a fierce storm lashing the decks.It sounds rather vulgar, but it is true.”In the early 1930’s Beverley Nichols was already a well-known writer – still quite a young man, he also had a passion for gardens, and it would seem, enough money to buy a cottage with large gardens in the country.
made me laugh out loud alone in bed, quite late at night. seriously gleeful laughter. the only problem was how he'd refer, at times, to being poor: he was an aristocrat with servants and multiple properties. sigh. oh, and his 1930's era elegantly closeted homosexual brand of misogyny. enormously charming, nonetheless! highly recommended for plant lovers, eddie izzard lovers and those who believe they should have been born in london, paris or berlin in 1920.
He is a bit misogynistic and mean spirited to his women neighbors & women gardeners at times, but I never took him too seriously and wasn't offended.
The author is quite funny when discussing the trials and tribulations in his garden and some of the characters in his life at the time.
As a fellow gardener & kindred spirit of the author, there were so many gems in the book like the following quotes that I loved:"To dig one's spade into the earth.
If you told me six months ago that I'd become obsessed with a dead guy who wrote gardening books, I'd have said ‘not on your pyracantha crenulata’.
A charming book - the author obviously had a true and deep love of plants. Also interesting to see how society and attitudes have changed since the early thirties.
the best gardening books should be written by those who still have to search their brains for the honeysuckle’s languid Latin name, who still feel awe at the miracle which follows the setting of a geranium cutting in its appointed loam." (9)A delightfully funny* "floral autobiography" (75) in which Nichols details his adventures and misadventures in restoring the garden of a newly acquired cottage in the English Midlands.
*eyeroll* Also there were a few hints of 1930s racism and classism."Moreover, when one came to mushrooms themselves, there was no reference to seeds or cuttings, but only to ‘spawn.’ Spawn?
What a delightful book! It is "a wandering through a garden, a lazy pilgrimage.", describing the author's trials and triumphs in building a garden at his country home. The book is filled with wonderful descriptions of flowers and trees, along with amusing anecdotes. I especially loved his description of having a meal entirely from the garden, and there is a great section on the cats in his London garden. His interactions with the people who come to his country garden are amusing as well.
And I hope that there may come to them, once more, a faint tremor of that first ecstasy which shook them when they learnt that a garden is the only mistress who never fails, who never fades..."Favorite things from the book: 1.
This way, all the colours will be brighter, the choices will be spontaneous, and the sobering surprises will be endless.3."Shelley, long before the appointed time, unloosed, with trembling fingers, the starched ribbons which bound the dress of Poetry." Thought on the authorThe book has reassured the awesomeness of my gaydar!
This is the first book in the “Allways” trilogy named after the thatched, half-timbered Tudor cottage Nichols bought in 1928 in the tiny English village of Glatton.
And like all his books, this one is a lot of fun (even though there’s much to offend those of us who have trouble excusing him for the way he writes about women.) Beverley Nichols was passionate about gardening.
Green and proud and sweet….”) Nevertheless, his books are a great deal of fun to read largely because he keeps interrupting himself in the middle of what he was saying to comment on something else: “Here I pause for a moment’s reflection.
There's the partially-told story of Nichols purchase of a country house with wrecked garden, and his work at transforming it, but more than this the book is a collection of observations about plants, women gardeners, neighbor gardeners, greenhouses, cats, the enjoyment of winter plants, etc.
Onto another cell, and yet another, until you begin to run madly, down streets that never end, until you fall exhausted at the foot of a lamp-post, on a hard pavement.Yet here before you is a growing rose.
Why, when the wind comes, there is even a rustle in the leaves, so that if you close your eyes you can fancy yourself in the country.
A Gem of a Story and a Book to TreasureIn this entertaining story, the first volume of the Allways Trilogy, Beverly Nichols leads you down the path of his own gardening journey.
You're the lucky one that get's to ride along as he puts plans into action that often leaving you scratching your head in dismay yet always smiling at the outcome.He loves puttering in his gardens and walking the paths, which he insists on traveling start to finish because that is when you discover miracles.
It's easy to understand why this book, first published in 1932, has never been out of print!
While I can see Nichols' writerly skill here, and he shows some of his trademark whimsy, I can't quite put my finger on why I liked Down the Garden Path so much less.
I think that maybe Merry Hall had more lovable oddball characters and adventures, and fewer rapturous lists of flowers that I can't picture without resorting to google.
On the whole though, I think that my love of the Merry Hall trilogy set my expectations too high, and I'm unsure if I want to finish out the books in this trilogy.
This is the first of Nichols' garden books, and the first of the trilogy about his house in what he calls Allways.
I read the Merry Hall trilogy first, however, and I liked it significantly better.
This book still has the enjoyable portraits of a big English garden, however, and the part that was consistent with the Merry Hall trilogy I liked.
(Mind you--he's none to egalitarian in the Merry Hall books either--just less raw around the edges about it.)Re-read prior to visiting Glatton, England, where the house is.
Very fun to see the village and the house when the book is fresh in memory.
As an adult I read this book and absolutely fell in love.
I went on to buy up almost a complete collection of his books and thought at the time I must be the only person left in the world who had made the amazing discovery of this talented author and his enchanting gardening, books.
Some of his other books have a darker shade to them which balances the pure delight of the books he wrote about his passions of gardening and cats.
He also wrote some very good children's books.
Just the gardening book I was looking for. Nichols is snotty and charming, which makes for delightful narrating of just about anything. A terrible book to read if you're trying to exorcise adjectives, adverbs and superfluousness from your own writing ("Pools and cupids and cats, and very crazy pavements, and seats that are scrubbed, on rare summer evenings, by sulky butlers"). A perfect book to read before bed, because there isn't a compulsion to stay up late to see what happens to his rock garden.
This book was on our new shelf at the library and I pulled it off and read a random page...
and instantly fell in love.
It's the auto-biography of a new gardener and his adventures are hilarious, random, and actually fairly informative.
I have a new stash of mental notes on winter flowering plants that I can hardly wait to try out.
I think it would lend itself to having portions of it read out loud, though it is written by an early twentieth century bachelor so the material reflects a certain view of the world.
This was a delightful discovery, one I'd like to have in my home library.
An interesting book about a man's garden in England. Of course, this isn't just any garden but one with many different types of gardens, a greenhouse, a pond, etc. Nichols writing style is rambling and quirky and he isn't very good at maintaining a proper flow of the story line but the book was written in the 30's so a "proper" writing style is probably a lot different now than it was then.
Nichols is a delightful and witty read. He possesses a keen eye for observation, and a deep appreciation of beauty. His enthusiasm will inspire gardeners - I dare anyone to read this book and then not start planting a winter garden.
This book makes a great leisurely read; there's no narrative suspense here to keep anybody awake (which is good). It's a facsimile (with index and introduction added) of the original edition with original illustrations, so it's a very handsome physical object.
My mother introduced me to this book and author. Reading him (Beverley is a him) is traveling back 75 years and a continent away. His writing style charmed me like a cyclamen in winter--a jewel amongst paste!
This book was a delightful surprise. Mr. Nichols' charming garden memoir is full of anecdotes that are laugh-out-loud funny. Wholeheartedly recommended!
This was a delightful read--inspiring for a gardener and fun for anyone who likes a glimpse of life from another time and place.
Witty, fun, beautifully written with characters that leap off the page. I giggled out loud several times throughout. It also made me very excited to seek out some winter flowers for my own garden.
This book is such a funny and delightful read whether you enjoy gardening or not but if you do it is definitely inspirational!
makes me laugh every half page.. and also wonder about his brilliant style and choice of words..
Hilarious.
