https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/419585.Company
"Everything's different, / Nothing's changed, / Only maybe slightly / Rearranged." (33)
First, the libretto to COMPANY was written by George Furth; Sondheim provided the music and lyrics.
In the positive it is seen as an element of "being alive" -- to quote from Sondheim's lyrics, Bobbby discovers that while committing his life to someone may make him vulnerable to someone who could "hurt [him:] too deep" it will also someone provide someone to need him, know him, and "always be there, as frightened as you".
No matter how many walls one may put up, or how loudly one declares their love for their independence, Furth and Sondheim assert that it is human nature to to share one's life with someone.
Being a concept musical, it revolves around the themes of relationships, love, and isolation without involving a traditional story sequence.
I believe that the title of this piece represents Bobby having his loved ones constantly with him, and because of this, he is never technically alone whether or not he’s single.This script explores many themes, all of which adults can relate to.
I got the chance to see this show performed live a few years ago, but I decided to read the entire script for myself because I enjoyed the content so much.
This is a fantastic read for anyone interested in a realistic kind of musical script to read.
The highlights for me: "The Little Things You Do Together", "Side by Side by Side", "The Ladies Who Lunch", and "Being Alive".In a series of disconnected scenes, each character/couple has a chance to shine in such a way that both highlights the ways in which husbands and wives can differ, and unpacks, in the same heartbeat, what brought each particular couple together in the first place.
On the same token, it addresses what one faces when one goes through life without marriage, which--in today's age of equality--adds a whole new dimension to an already complicated work.
I thought that the script was way too repetitive.
I get that the point is that all marriages are similar and all are different, but I just thought the little snippets were too similar.
The “we don’t drink” the bourbon scene wasn’t all that different from the “we don’t really smoke pot scene.” and all of the songs felt so similar.
I listened to this for a bit yesterday and realized I had heard 4 songs without ever noticing a transition between them.
I thought this didn't really accomplish anything.
There is no real energy switch or plot change or even character growth.
Although "Company" is a phenomenal musical, the libretto itself does leave something to be desired. Definitely something you don't want to sit down and read (I got the script for character work as an actor).
one of my favorite musical scripts/librettos. The comparison of married people not being marriage itself to musicians playing the wrong notes not meaning the music is bad was a major shift in perspective for me...
This is my favorite musical. It is probably better to watch this than read it though.
Okay, there's enough BobbyBabble to drive a person crazy, but this show has plenty of great songs and a timeless quality.
This is my favorite Sondheim musical and I'm glad to finally have read its book. It's simply flawless. That is all.
hadn't read this in ages; now it's time to bust out the cast recording (but which one???)
Such a simple plot, such a compelling musical!
Not my favorite.
It's sort of weird at first, but once you adjust to the concept, ""Company"" is an interesting show.
My fav. Sondheim... so far!
