https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/183107.The_Mystery_on_the_Mississippi

Trixie and the Bob-White gang are off again, to Mississippi this time.
They encounter a very bad guy who actually talks about doing serious harm to Trixie and Honey.
Throughout the series Honey and Trixie find themselves in serious danger, and this is one of those times.
They help to uncover a major smuggling ring this time, but when they aren't involved in that they do get to see historical Mississippi and track down several locales from Mark Twain's Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn.
This isn't one of my favorite in the series, but it is still Trixie and any Trixie book will get a 5-star rating from me.
This is odd, of course, because they were MEANT for teen and pre-teen girls, but I was a young boy that read everything he could get his hands on and when I first stumbled on my first TRIXIE BELDON book I was instantly hooked!
Trixie is the star, or "lead" character, followed by Jim and Honey (who quickly became the love of my young life, I had a total crush on a fictional character that only existed in ink) and this brave trio was constantly getting into trouble, solving mysteries and murders; that sort of thing.
I lost all of my Trixie books years ago, lending them to friends and that sort of thing.
;) I've also been very busy as far as Easter so I haven't been reading a lot lately.
I've noticed this is the fourth vacation in a row the Bob-Whites have taken so far.
There was a sterotypical evil person named Lontard which is actually an alias (literally, in another book I read the evil person's fake name was Lontard.
O.o) who will stop at nothing to get something he wants which Trixie has, even going so far as to attempt to murder her.
(Oooh, aaaah!) There wasn't very much of the Bob-Whites besides Honey and Trixie, which I was disappointed about.
XD) Trixie turns into a sissy, as well.
A childhood favorite re-visited.Is the story as good as I remember?
– Most of a day’s read.Characters?
– Memorable, several characters.Setting?
– Real world, pre - computer pre - air conditioning, pre - cell phone.Written approximately?
– 1965.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind?
Also, the absence of computers, cell phones, and air conditioning in homes, especially the mansion.Short storyline: Trixie Belden, Honey, Jim, and her brothers work to catch the an international ring of gun smugglers.
No murder, though there are attempted murders of the main characters.
I always liked the map and the "decrypting" of it by Trixie and Honey.2012 Review:And wrapping it up with #15-Mystery on the Mississippi.
Another one I like because Dan gets to go, although Di gets left behind this time.
I enjoyed this one because it was really scary, big-time mystery with Trixie and Honey (however illogical it seems) getting mixed up in the affairs of South American gun smugglers.
Trixie got a lot of grief for this one for almost getting herself and Honey killed, but the boys left them and Mr. Wheeler let them!
Still, it's an exciting mystery and I enjoy it a lot.
Trixie and her friends take a trip to Missouri, where Trixie finds some stranger papers in her hotel room's garbage can. Soon, someone is following them. What do the symbols on the paper mean?I'm torn on this one. It was my introduction to the series, so it will always hold a special place in my heart. The fast moving and suspenseful plot captivated the 7th grade me and introduced me to life long friends. However, reading it as an adult, boy to all the characters do some pretty stupid things.Read my full review at Carstairs Considers.
How the heck does this girl get to travel so much?
I loved the Trixie Belden books as a kid (nice to see they got republished). I'm still unsure how they ended up in my corner of the world. I slowly amassed the whole series as first editions (it seemed so glamourous as a kid owning precious books that were older than me!) by saving all my pocket money to buy them from the local secondhand store. I can only guess that some adult (probably having moved to our sleepy town from overseas) had sold them off in bulk. They sat in a back corner of the s
I slowly amassed the whole series as first editions (it seemed so glamourous as a kid owning precious books that were older than me!) by saving all my pocket money to buy them from the local secondhand store.
They sat in a back corner of the store, thankfully ignored by everyone else, as I slowly acquired them through pocket money and then in a mass swoop for Christmas.
I found a few at the used book store I hadn't read yet and this was one. I forgot how the criminals in Trixie Belden were SO menacing and evil. It's a wonder I even read them as a kid. ;)
Visiting St Louis the girls are kidnapped and held on a derelict river boat.
Trixie Belden and the Mystery on the Mississippi is book number fifteen in the Trixie Belden mystery series.
Trixie Belden and Honey Wheeler are best friends, horse lovers, and detectives who always seem to accidentally find a mystery waiting to be solved.
Trixie finds some important papers in their hotel room before they get on the boat.
The club must get to the bottom of the mystery before it is too late!
I love the Trixie Belden Mystery Series because it combines two of my favorite things - - horses and mystery!
This was a very good addition to the Trixie Belden series.
The Bobwhites are on plain mystery free vacation in St. Louis...yeah right.
It started out innocently enough, until Trixie discovers some suspicious papers in the wastebasket of her motel room and soon the Bobwhites are pursued by the owners of those papers.
They also visit Hannibal, Missouri, the home of Tom Sawyer!There was only one part of this book that irked me, that the Bobwhites would risk national security to keep a promise to a boy they met that very day is laughable, utterly ridiculous.
For Christmas one year, my parents grabbed me the entire Trixie Belden set and I couldn't put them down.
After I finished with them, they continued to purchase them as quickly as I could read them.
Even with a learning disability, I devoured the books.
I look back now and I find that Trixie Belden was much more age related to young girls, particularly to me, reading the books than Nancy Drew.
There was something in these books that I found to be a greater escape than I did ND, too.
I found that they weren't so "over the top" or dated.
There was a tertiary character in this book that caught my interest and I wanted to know more about him -- the elusive Mr. Brandio.
Purported to be a business colleague of Matthew Wheeler's, he sets in motion the trip for the Bob-Whites and pops up throughout the book.
However, there is absolutely no detail about the man -- no description, no first name, nothing other than he's apparently a big wig in the Aircraft/Space Craft World and President of Clear Meadow Aircraft Corporation.
Which is one reason I really like this book, it's all very mysterious and a strong mystery with a tense ending.
This book by Kathryn Kenny, is exciting and has drops of drama added in. *Spoiler* Trixie was correct on who she thought was doing this or that and also on judging people *Spoiler over* Which because of what Trixie Thought of this person of that one, I took a second look at their personality and ask myself, could they have done it? Being book 15 in the series, I've read the other books, and Kathryn does a good job of changing the conflict and how it's solved, Which makes each stories of hers different and unique.
The fifteenth book in the Trixie Belden series. I felt that this particular mystery was “too big” for Trixie. There was a LOT going on in this one, and the ending really had me feeling that Trixie was well and truly out of her depth in this one.In fact, there was probably too much going on in this one. I did like the travel around the Mississippi area, and some of the historical stuff around it, that was quite interesting. I just didn’t overly enjoy the mystery in this one.
Not my favorite Trixie by far. Took me almost a month to read this short book because I kept getting annoyed with the characters - Trixie acting clueless, Mart being exceptionally obtuse, and Dan - Dan! - being the voice of reason. Plus, throw in the Secret Service just to trash any chance of plausibility and I almost didn't finish it. Fortunately, this one has been the exception - so far, the others in the series have been as enjoyable as I remember from when I was a kid.
This is the last of the three Trixie Belden books, and the only one that's written by "Kathryn Kenny". I much prefer the original author, Julie Campbell. Her style is much more pleasant and easy to read. Whoever was writing under the pseudonym "Kathryn Kenny" didn't understand the spirit and the essence of Trixie Belden and the rest of the group at all.
That's right. No stars. This book should be retitled "Trixie Belden and the Creepy Cold War Propaganda Mystery." Trixie comes across as a stubborn, dim, kittenish brat. This is an infuriatingly bad book, that is irredeemably racist, sexist, corny and at times just inexplicable. Other books I loved as a child reward adult rereading, but not this one.
Sept 2013 ... not one of my favorites, perhaps because of the way Trixie goes off with someone, knowing full well she should not, and gets into way more trouble than is imaginable. Still, lots of good geography lessons about the Mississippi River and surrounding areas, and lots of fun, and the crew that we've come to love throughout the series.
There's an actual mystery! There's real consequences to the mystery! It makes sense! And the best part? Dan FINALLY gets to go on a trip.This was one of my favorite books as a 10-12 year old, and it's my favorite Trixie Belden mystery.Recommended 11+ for scary situations.
One of my least favorites. There was a lot of bickering in this on, people not believing her but her also making a lot of stupid decisions. Whoever wrote this decided to make Trixie more of an idiot, tensions between the lot of them and just a jumbled mess really. Not too enjoyable.
Good book ... hard to see Trixie get out of one jam just to place herself in peril yet again ... I don't think she's really all that dumb! However the gang has another great adventure, with some nice descriptions of some of the things they saw in the St. Louis area.
This wasn't one of the better written Trixies sad to say. It seemed that there were a few too many instances of things happening conveniently to propel the storyline. But I do love the danger. It was one of the few Trixies to more accurately portray the consequences of your actions.
I have read this book so many times!
3 estrelas - grande leitura da minha pré-adolescência!
My schoolmate Peggy owned the whole series of these books, and loaned them to me one or two at a time to read in junior high school. I loved them!
book 15
Again, go home Bob Whites! However, I am a sucker for graph paper; so I like the drawings the girls find in their hotel room.
