https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/674749.The_Ordinary_Princess
Amy catches wind of the plan, decides it's a terrible scheme on so many levels, runs away and ends up living in the forest and then working as a kitchen maid in the castle of a neighboring kingdom.I thought this little story would be more subversive than it was, but other than the twist of having an ordinary-looking and acting girl as its main character, it pretty much follows the standard fairy tale line.
(view spoiler)[There's a handsome guy in the castle where Amy is working who, it turns out, is not nearly as shallow as all the other nobility she's met.
I don't read many children's books, but I was drawn to this one by its very beautiful cover which was actually the work of the author.   The other illustrations in this edition were pleasant enough & done by Faith Jaques.Princess Amethyst was expected to be given the same princessy gifts by the fairy godmothers as her six elder elder sisters - and she did indeed receive charm and wit and grace and courage. But then Crustacea, the most important fairy godmother arrived - & Crustacea was i
The other illustrations in this edition were pleasant enough & done by Faith Jaques.Princess Amethyst was expected to be given the same princessy gifts by the fairy godmothers as her six elder elder sisters - and she did indeed receive charm and wit and grace and courage.
She gave Amethyst the gift of ordinariness.
& part of Amy's charm is that she isn't looking for gifts or repining that she doesn't have them.My Puffin edition gives a recommended readers' age of 9-11.
Amy, a smart, plucky, decidedly NOT classically beautiful princess, is given at birth the magical gift of being "ordinary".
Unbeknownst to Amy, Percy is the prince of the kingdom--just as he has no idea that she is a runaway princess whose family is looking high and low for her.Secret identities are revealed, Amy returns home, and Percy flabbergasts her family by showing up and asking for her hand in marriage.
A great moral story for girls that shows that you can be yourself and be happy, and that it's okay not to look perfect.
What happened to the 80's princess with freckles, frizzy brown hair, and a ridiculously ornate purple dress?
Reading the book as an adult, I was so relieved to read an earnest fairy tale for once.
So many "fairy tale princess books" on the market are hideous, smarmy, wink-wink tales that blend modern humor with the fairy tale world, while practically screaming to the reader, "Look how clever and fresh I am!
"The Ordinary Princess" has plenty of humor, but Kaye takes her world and her characters seriously enough that she makes you laugh with them, not at them.
Yay for The Ordinary Princess!
Yay for Princess Amy!
M M Kaye came to the same conclusion after re-reading some of her favorite classic children stories and set out to tell us about their seventh sister, Her Serene and Royal Highness the Princess Amethyst Alexandra Augusta Araminta Adelaide Aurelia Anne of Phantasmorania, also known as Amy. Due to a slight misunderstanding and scheduling conflict at her christening, the last fairy godmother to bless her (the slightly cranky and unpredictable Crustacea) gave her the gift of Ordinariness, to the dismay of her royal parents and court attendants.The story of Amy who may be not beautiful, but nevertheless enjoys her ordinary life, often evading from her luxurious chambers in a high tower to play in the forest where she makes friends with a raven, a squirell and some children from the village, is not only educational but also funny and charming, told in a simple language that pays homage to the classics (references to Sleeping Beauty and Snow White are quite obvious) while including enough modern and subversive elements to attract the children of the atomic age.
I love this precious book nonetheless.
This is a story of Princess Amy of Phantasmorania, who has mousy brown hair and a freckled nose, because she was gifted with ordinariness at birth (obviously,her fairy godmother was drunk).
(view spoiler)[When she reaches marriageable age, her parents despair because who would want to marry an ordinary looking princess (*rolls eyes*), so they do something desperate which Amy disagrees with so she runs away.
Long story short, she runs away , meets an ordinary guy.
They fall in love, identities revealed and they live happily ever after (hide spoiler)].
A fairy tale about ordinary looking people?
From the authors note at the very beginning I was pulled into the most deliciously whimsical book.
Five gloriously, shining stars for this amazing book (bumped it up one)– it is one of the sweetest stories I have read in a long time with a beautiful style, delightful characters, and a sweet and funny message.
The beautiful and amazing illustrations are also absolutely charming.
This was the perfect bedtime reading - so soothingly and fun.
What a joy fairy tales are!
I can't wait to buy my own copy - this is a book to be petted, cherished and share.
Oh my goodness, this was such a delightful book!
Princess Amy is the seventh daughter of King Hulderbrand and Queen Rhodesia.
All throughout history, the seventh daughter has been the most beautiful, the most extraordinary princess of them all - but not this time.
Of course this is a travesty and a tragedy to the royal court, and a never-ending source of shame and embarrassment to the King and Queen - but Amy is perfectly happy to be herself and not stiffly proper and bored.
This is definitely a feel-good keeper of a book.
I loved the message that no matter who you are, or where you come from, being yourself will bring you happiness.
Charming book. This would have been one of my favorite books had I read it as a kid. I found it both enchanting and fun to read, reading it for the first time as an adult. A must read for kids & adults, especially young girls & their parents. Love the twist on the standard fairy tale. The illustrations by the author are lovely.I’ll be giving this as a gift to several little girls.
Quaint, witty and adorable fairy tale romance novella about an Ordinary but very likeable princess and how she finds her HEA. Would have give it 5 stars if only it wasn't a clean romance. 4.25 stars!
Also the illustrations are absolutely fabulous.I loved the plot, the humor, the total fairytale-feel, the Englishness, the Ordinary Princess herself, and of course Peregrine.
*flails around*I simply can’t describe how perfect it is, and the only thing for it is for you to read it yourself.If you love fairytales new and old, fun little books, a touch of adorable sweet romance, a bit of “English” feeling and wonderful dialog and humor, and just an all around lovely read, you simply MUST read The Ordinary Princess!
It’s sweet, adorable, lovely, gorgeous, hilarious, and just all-around PERFECT.
As delightful as I remembered! The kids really liked it, too! This is sort of a rare thing these days, in that it's a romance for children. Princess Amy's age is never talked about, but the entire book she's trying to dodge a horrible arranged marriage, and falls in love on her own. Sweet and charming, and I'd forgotten what a hilarious satire it is of classic fairy tales.
Princess Amethyst Alexandra Augusta Araminta Adelaide Aurelia Anne is the seventh daughter of the King and Queen of Phantasmorania.
She swops a grand gown for a humble frock, scampers down the wisteria, and heads off to the Faraway Forest (leaving behind an explanatory note for her parents, because she's thoughtful like that).From here the story unfolds, as Amy enters further and further into real life: the Forest is lovely but new clothes don't grow on trees, and she ends up having to take a job as 14th assistant kitchen-maid at the castle in Amber.
I first read this when I was eight, and I loved it.
I read it again when I was fifteen, and discovered that I loved it even more than my eight-year-old counterpart did.
I absolutely recommend this if you need a little something to brighten your day.
It's a quick read, it probably won't take more than an hour, but it will make things seem brighter.Some of my favorite elements were Mr. Pemberthy (the squirrel) and Peter Aurelious (the crow).
I always wanted a pet squirrel when I was little!
What a delightful and sweet little book! I do love epic stories with action and danger and adventure, but now and then, I need something that's just happy and adorable. This book is a perfect spring read!
And bestow these fine gifts the fairies did - Princess Amethyst Alexandra Augusta Araminta Adelaide Aurelia Anne was given Charm and Wit and Grace and Courage, and many other similar traits besides, heaped on her already quite beauteous and sweet-tempered head of gold curls.
But then, the most powerful fairy god-mother in the land - the prickly older fairy Crustacea with a notorious temper - bestowed her final gift on young Princess Amethyst Alexandra Augusta Araminta Adelaide Aurelia Anne:"Wit, Charm, Courage, Health, Wisdom, Grace...Good gracious, poor child!
Some of the names and the fairy tale grandiose designations for some of the under characters!
I rather think this dates the whole and in an age tech ravaged children might not fly quite on the same path intended to this frolic.
Maybe I'm wrong but it is SO simple a tale that the cutesy-cutesy names might seem almost babyish to the majority currently.
About that age and probably much more liked by those who hold the rather traditional gender values, I would think.
Amy works but as a kitchen maid.
Amy certainly doesn't become a coal heaver.
This is such a cute and lovely book! This book is one of my favorite books because every time I read the book, I know that I will feel happy reading the book. I also love how the book is like a breath of fresh air. It's like the original fairy tales, but it is fun and light. It isn't dark like some fairy tales.
Awww, that was so cute!
A vintage treasure I found at a yard sale! Absolute adorable!
Found in a charity shop, so reread again. Didn't know this as a child, but I've read it at least three times as an adult to try to make it up to young me. Reminds me a bit of The 13 Clocks and Many Moons by James Thurber, or The Reluctant Dragon by Kenneth Grahame or even The Light Princess by George MacDonald... if you like any in my list here, read the others too....
One of my all-time favorite books, and one I reread regularly. When Princess Amethyst is born, her (slightly creepy) agreeableness prompts the oldest and crankiest of the fairies to give her the gift of ordinariness. And what a gift! Amy's fate suddenly takes a sharp turn, which results in mistaken identities, dragons, fake portraits, jewelry made from trees, and grandly named woodland animals.Charming, quirky, and one of those rare books that presents a fully-formed world quite removed from our own. A must read for anyone who likes fairy tales, or seeing fairy tales turned on their head.
I love this book. It was my favorite book as a child. At the baby princess's christening, she is given the blessing of being an ordinary princess. She is starting to reach the age of marriage and her parents are worried about her. I don't want to give up too much info but it won't disappoint.
I hadn't read this in years, but when I found it again, I finished it in one sitting. :)I'm glad to find (and report) that this book is still as sweet, charming, and wonderful as it was when I first read it as a teenager. This is definitely a book that I'd want my daughter to check out, when she has the patience to read something more than a picture book.
An interesting little fairy tale by one of my favorite authors. I bumped it up to 4 stars because of the wonderful illustrations by the author. I didn't know MM Kaye could draw so well. I think young girls would like this story.
Wonderful fairy and princess story.
Utterly charming. Can be read aloud in one evening. I love it.
First Read in 2012 Absolutely precious <3  I was like "awwwww!!" the whole time. Awwwwww!!Re-read in 2015
The story is great, Amy is a wonderful role model - she's not going to accept her royal position and an easy life, she's a hard worker when needed, she's funny and smart and quite adorable.
What a great story to show young girls that a princess's privileged life is not necessarily something to aspire to, that an equal relationship is a healthy and long-lasting one, that working for a living can bring its own rewards, that beauty is something intrinsic to a person, not just about skin, teeth and hair.The writing is chatty and easy to follow, one you could read aloud to a five-year-old or for an older child to easily read for themselves.
Perhaps what I love best about this delight of a story (quite apart from the great wisteria and lovely Forest of Faraway) is the whimsical narrative voice that is sympathetic to the characters and makes them endearing, even the controlling King and Queen who only seem to care about marrying Amy off to a royal Highness.
Though sometimes it's hard to know what she's thinking, I do like Amy's simple approach to things.
She doesn't want to be married off, so she runs away to live in the forest (oh, how I'd love to be in that forest among the bluebells!
