https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/283494.Ironside
It only took to the last book of the trilogy buuuuuut....I LOVED THIS ONE SO MUCH!
It's like the Holly Black style that I adore and it's everything that I wanted and it's immensely faerieish and creepy and cruel and dark and WELL I AM A PLEASED SPRITE....although I have to admit, book 2, Valiant still makes exactly zero sense.
And, yeeeah, the plot was a bit painful, aka, it consisted of Roiban saying "DON'T DO THE THING" and Kaye going "BUT I WANNA DO THE THING" and blood everywhere and regret and bad faerie food.
I WANT MORE CREEPY FAERIE BOOKS...
Loved this book!Ironside is the third installment of the Modern Faerie Tales series.
I just love this dark and creepy series.
Or is that just me...Now in this book, you will meet and fall in love with Corny.
Yeah, that's pretty much it.
Kaye and Roiban were just meh to me.
I hate their constant push and pull kind of relationship.
I was just so done with their meh relationship.
Again, I love the darkness in these books.
Maybe it brings out the darker side of me but yeah, it was funny and a really enjoyable read.
I loved this one just as much as Tithe! I like how we get a sort of collision with Luis from book two and get to learn more about him. Also, loved him and Corny!Kaye has really grown as a character. She is strong and brave and fierce, and I love her, too! I wish there would have been more of Roiben, but the scenes that he was in were awesome!Again, Holly Black has created such a magnificent world where character's feel real because they may not be a hundred percent likeable yet are! Highly recommend this series.
IRONSIDE picks up soon after the events in TITHE and VALIANT, and takes the reader on another breathless journey into the amazing and deadly world of Faerie.
Changeling Kaye Fierch knows that she loves Roiben, but she feels increasingly unwelcome and out of place in the Unseelie Court.
However, faerie custom demands that a quest be undertaken before anyone can sit as the Lord's consort, and Roiben grants Kaye an impossible task: to find a fairy who can tell an untruth.
She feels that this, at least, is something she can do, even if there's no way she can complete Roiben's quest.
This was nearly as good as the first book, which is my favourite in this series.
It had an actual quest and adventure, like the first.
But it focused mostly on Kaye, Corny, and Luis (a returning character from book 2), and not enough Roiben.
The most sexually charged scene was actually between two supporting characters.
This book remains primarily a faerie adventure.
In that sense it was very good.
Lots of action and suspense and faerie politics.
So you could read just #1 and 3, or just #2 alone, if you wanted to.
But just read them all!
A mixed bag, like previous 2 books (faerie lore - yeah!, romance, teen angst - meh!). Glad to see mostly the better aspects of Black's early faerir books made it into The Cruel Prince.
Just like Tithe, this story is an OG Fae story so I love it for that alone and have to say that this one held up a lot better than Tithe did.
We have Corny wishing he was Fae, Kaye wishing that she could be a true daughter to Ellen, and Rioben trying to find a way to avoid war between the Bright and Dark courts.
Of course, Rioben steals the show for me as does Corny and his desire to be Fae like Kaye.
Another great Holly Black Fae story to add to my shelves.
Honestly, I don't know why I keep reading Holly Black, because even while I enjoyed this -- and it was enjoyable; if you liked Tithe or Valiant, you'll enjoy this one -- I always find myself ending up annoyed by her books, which overrides any enjoyment I get out of them.
I don't know, I just feel like her books are too coy, like they're full of inside jokes that I don't get, and okay, you know what, that's fine, she can put all the inside jokes she wants in her books, but when her readers feel alienated because of them, when they actively read her books and feel like they're left out of the cool kids club, that's a bad thing.
The one where Roiben of the Seelie Court finds himself in charge of the Unseelie, and tries to protect his love Kaye, a pixie changeling, by giving her an impossible quest.I really want to know what I'm doing wrong that I keep checking out books without knowing that they're sequels.
I couldn't quite get a handle on Corny's character, and this might be a place where I'm paying the price for not having read Tithe yet, because I can't make sense of the cruel streak he shows every now and then.
And I'm not clear on the difference between the Seelie and Unseelie courts, though it seems very important to the characters.
At his coronation, he sets an impossible quest for his lover, the pixie Kaye, to keep her safe from the war between the courts.
Meanwhile, Kaye's bff Corny is dealing with the rage and self-loathing left behind by his enthrallment and his sister's death.
The fey courts and the human world (aka "Ironside") are described with a precise poetry.
Unlike Emma Bull's War for the Oaks or say, Poppy Z Brite's Lost Souls, the descriptions of the fey and the punked out humans never feel like wish-fulfillment.
I read the entire book in about an hour.
Continuing with the vibrant magical atmosphere and faery world of Tithe, Ironside is the work of a much more mature and accomplished author: the characters are more realistically flawed while still being sympathetic, and the writing style is skillful and polished.
Both magical and distinctly human, Ironside is at once enjoyable and avidly readable as well as meaningful and personally relevant.While Ironside is by no means a perfect book (the characters and plot points are cliche, the dark court remains pointlessly dark, and Kaye and her friends in their personalities and experiences are not entirely realistic or deeply explored; all in all, it is not the most skillful or most memorable text), it is a great improvement and an enjoyable read.
Ironside is the third book in  Holly Black's Modern Faery series.
In times it can almost feel too dark and disturbing, as the characters do their best to cause pain to others.
There's always the bit of romance to offset the grittiness, though, and in fact the touches of romance are my favorite parts of the series.
It continually moves forward at a good pace, although a bit clumsily at times, especially in the segues.
It's as if the book didn't get that one final polish that would make it shine.Still, it's a good story, and I did enjoy it.
Ironside is the third book in Holly Black's Faerie Tale series, though it's actually a continuation of book one,  Tithe . The second book,  Valiant , takes place in the same world as books one and three but with different characters, some of which appear here as well. Kay and Roiben's stories however, are pretty much found only in books one and three. :)Roiben is now King of the Unseelie Court, and against his wishes, Kaye has declared herself to him, thereby swearing loyalty to the Unseelie Cou
Ironside is the third book in Holly Black's Faerie Tale series, though it's actually a continuation of book one, 
:)Roiben is now King of the Unseelie Court, and against his wishes, Kaye has declared herself to him, thereby swearing loyalty to the Unseelie Court in the process...
This book follows Kaye's adventures alongside her old friend Corny as they travel between the human and faerie realms, not necessarily keeping a low profile along the way.
LOLI enjoyed this third book in the series and look forward to more of Ms. Black's Faerie Tale universe.
Holly Black never fails to entertain.
I was a little confused in parts, but it was my own fault for not re-reading Tithe first, the book that went before this one.
It was no fault of the author's.
Holly Black's writing style continues to impress me.
I don't think her style is as completely sensual as Francesca Lia Block's, but it is very much in the same vein.
Black's style is has matured a bit, I think, since her last novel, so I look forward to seeing what her next novels will be like.
A fitting end to the trilogy, and a clear attempt to bring together three quite different books.Kaye is, once more, the focus of our attention as she attempts to fulfil her seemingly impossible quest. Roibin and the other Faeries continue to fight for power. While this lacked the power of some of Holly Black's later writing, the world is well-constructed and there is a good mix of humour and darkness. Parts of this were quite creepy.
3.25 stars
Хубав финал както за героите, така за поредицата. Такива книги харесвам хем с фентъзи и екшън, хем да съдържат романтика, ако имаше и повече моменти между любовните интереси, вместо само да решават проблемите си самостоятелно или с приятелите си книгата щеше да е страхотна, но уви. Все пак си беше хубава книга и я прочетох на един дъх и с голям кеф.
3.5 stars.
4.75 antes de la lecturaestaba emocionada porque iban a mostrar los personajes del libro 1 y del libro 2 .
esto es mas bien un libro para culminar cosas huecas que no tuvieron su final feliz en los anteriores libros.
creo que no es necesario otro libro .
la autora exploto bien todas las cosas .
haciendo un balance entre white cat.me he fijado que la autora empieza fuerte en sus libros pero al cerrarlos como que me sabe mal , uno porque me ha gustado muchisimo pero a veces no pasa las cosas todas que yo quisiera.
I thought it tied in the other two book perfectly and gave you just enough satisfaction at the end without having an overly perfect "fairy tale ending." In this installment, Kaye and Roiben are dealing with their uncomfortable pasts in hopes to create a better future for themselves as well as the faerie people.
And Kaye must choose between the world she knows and the world of her heritage--a choice only made more difficult when she believes Roiben has rejected her love.
The language can be a little rough, and the storyline is not for the faint of heart, but don't let that detour you from a good read.
I thought that this book brought the characters from both Tithe and Valiant together well and I enjoyed it more than the first two books seperately - though I was disappointed that Val wasn't involved more as she was the main character in Valiant - I would've preferred if she'd had a larger role.
I thought that this completed the series well and brought things together.
I found the writing to be better than Tithe and the characters to be more bearable in this book.
A quite easy to read but disappointing series that I wouldn't recommend.
Before I go any further I will say it was a fun read, however I would not rebuy it if it cost more than 4 USD which I got it for.I didn't really like all of the characters, I personally could not relate to any of them I think I hated Corny the most.
The book does have a lot of cussing which I don't happen to find in books a lot...maybe I'm just not reading the right ones and a lot of the characters enjoy alcohol, which is a nice relation to reality.
The sequel that is better than the original is a rare thing...but this one is. Ironside is primarily about the characters from Tithe, but several cameos from Valiant are present, too. Kaye is fiercer, Corny is...well...more pitiful and awesome at the same time. The plot is solid. The characters are believable and relatable despite the fact that we obviously can't have the same literal struggles they do (symbolism abounds here folks). And the prose is in-your-face-damnit-why-will-my-writing-never-rock-this-hard?! amazing.
3.75 starsoh yes I liked this one way more (and can now appreciate these cameos in tcp!!)
3.5/5 Such a fun trilogy. This was an entertaining conclusion to Roiben and Kaye’s story. And, a hopeful beginning to Louis and Corny’s story 😊
That book, Valiant, veers away from the Kaye-Roiben story, which is what really interested me.
Banished on a quest because of her declaration of love for him, Kaye struggles to find the balance between the life she knew as a human and the life she’s learning in the realm of Faerie.
Her characterization in this book is weakest, and if you didn’t know Kaye from Tithe, I doubt you’d like her in Ironside, because she seems shallow and uninteresting.
Although Kaye dominates several key scenes, it’s Cornelius whom you feel is leading you through the story.The other disappointing part of Ironside, I think, is the loss of the romantic intensity between Kaye and Roiben.
Unlike Valiant, which was about an entirely new cast of characters (for the most part), this one brings back Roiben, Kaye and Corny and throws them into another adventure of love and faerie war.
Kaye ends up in a heap of trouble because she is still unsure of Roiben’s love even after he says this:“You are the only thing I have that is neither duty or obligation.
The bulk of Ironside is taken up with quests, a nasty curse, adventure, deaths, sarcasm, misunderstandings that didn’t get on my nerves, a separation between Kaye and Roiben (but worth it in the end) and a nicely done romance for Kaye’s friend Corny who finds himself a boyfriend (yay!).
IRONSIDE picks up soon after the events in TITHE and VALIANT, and takes the reader on another breathless journey into the amazing and deadly world of Faerie.Things have been uneasy ever since Roiben assumed the throne of the Unseelie Court, and with the threat of war in the air and Roiben's coronation drawing near, everyone is on edge.
She feels that this, at least, is something she can do, even if there's no way she can complete Roiben's quest.But with all the tension between the courts there is nowhere safe, and in venturing into the Seelie Court to find her human counterpart, Kaye puts herself within reach of Lady Silarial.
Man, I freaking LOVE these books.
Since all of Valiant completely fell out of my brain when I read it before, I wasn’t sure what to expect from this last installment.
But most of my memories of this were shockingly in tact and it was just as awesome as I remember!!For anyone wondering, you don’t actually have to read Valiant to understand this one.
Kaye is also another favorite character of mine and I love how clever she is!!
In Tithe I had some trouble wrapping my brain around his character, but I didn’t have that trouble this time.
