https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/4373.First_They_Killed_My_Father
There are some things left unlearned from history books.
You can actually witness the places and things that history has left behind.
And then, you can dive into personal accounts of history; how humanity struggles to survive during some of its darkest hours.
I've read many other survivor accounts from other historical periods, but this one disturbed me to no end; such a young child, such horrible atrocities being committed, witnessed, remembered.
Her story will haunt me forever.I found that as the hours passed after I began the book, I could not go to sleep without finishing the story, without making sure this child would make it out alright.
Walking through the grounds and stepping on peoples' bones and clothing remnants that were making their way up through the dirt...
Loung Ung lived through the genocide and has carried on her life by teaching others about what happened, helping them to survive the atrocities that seems to keep happening around the world.
In her memoir "First They Killed My Father: A daughter of Cambodia remembers" she tells of the Cambodia genocide from the eyes of a child.
A quick read, "First They Killed My Father: A daughter of Cambodia remembers" is the kind of book you start reading and don't want to put down.
The story is relentless, the bravery of these kids having to endure hunger, being separated from parents and siblings watching some of her family being taken away only to be led to their death, it reminds you that no child should ever have to deal with the devastation of genocide, the loss of human life for political purposes is truly one of the hardest things to read about.
The book reminds me how lucky I am to have been immune to such horrors in my lifetime but it's also equally important to hear these stories and learn about the true testament of the human spirit, the courage and the fight to live and survive is truly amazing.
But, hearing such news from a reporter, and hearing the account of a victim, are entirely different experiences.
Loung Ung’s account is all the more poignant because her four-year trial began at the age of five.
The hatred she so rightfully felt toward the Khmer Rouge and the soldiers of that regime must have been beyond imagination, and must easily have influenced every day of her life since.
Between those two events, she endured the unimaginable and I failed to fully appreciate the golden blessings of my own good fortune.It is important that we read these kinds of accounts.
FOR ALL THOSE WHOM GOT TORTURED, INSULTED, PERSECUTED, RAPED AND SLAUGHTERED BY COMMUNISM THROUGHOUT THE NIGHTMARISH YEARS IN LIVING HELL ON EARTHYou know nothing about Cambodia if you don't read this bookhttp://www.imdb.com/title/tt4882376/
I expected to come out of this with no less than a four star review.
I always wanted to keep reading and was invested in her and her family's story.
The writing was great in certain spots and then really bad in others.
Enough to make me question what the editors were thinking when they read it (words missing, words repeated in the same sentence, bad sentence structure), though this only seemed to be an issue toward the end.
It has made me want to read and understand more about the Cambodian Genocide, but part of that is because I was left lacking explanations.
No child should suffer what Loung does and she doesn't flinch from telling things that show her in a less than favourable light - but if she hadn't been an extremely tough five year old, she would never have survived (view spoiler)[in one of the few funny lines in the book, Loung says she doesn't know how her far softer sister did!
(hide spoiler)]Some recountings are like visualisations from when Loung was much older, but although they are a little jarring I think they are an important part of her story.Most highly recommended!
Stilistisch ist es doch etwas verwirrend gestrickt, weil die Autorin Präsens und Ich-Form eines kleinen Mädchens, der Protagonistin, gewählt hat, die dann aber nicht immer authentisch kindgerecht sondern oft wie eine erwachsene Schriftstellerin formuliert.
Auch wenn die Protagonistin als junges Mädchen zwar nicht authentisch formuliert, da sie in der Ich-Form von einem kleinen Mädchen gesprochen werden, findet das erwachsene Ich der Autorin aber dennoch sehr weise Worte, die sie kurz und knackig auf den Punkt bringt: "Seine Regierung hat ein rachgieriges, blutdürstiges Volk geschaffen.
Aber ich will ja nicht den Autor und sein Leben beurteilen, sondern das gerade beendete Buch, welches zwar interessant zu lesen war, aber auch so viele Ungereimtheiten aufwies.
Auch ist mein Interesse über die Beweggründe für die Schreckensherrschaft der Roten Khmer nach dem Buch eher geweckt, als gestillt.
Fehlte nur noch, dass man eine Lotusblüten mit einem Schmetterling auf das Cover platzierte.Auch wenn ich vieles an dem Buch nicht stimmig für mich fand, bin ich doch sehr froh es gelesen zu haben und würde es trotzdem unbedingt weiterempfehlen.
and while that book is a textbook autopsy of war crimes, horrors that have been speculated to be the cause for the author’s suicide, First They Killed My Father somehow felt even more devastating because a young child stood at the center screaming for justice.The memoir is somewhat fictionalized with snippets of dream-like imaginations from the young Ung. It’s debatable whether these scenes are a reaction to the trauma inflicted upon her or some other underlying psychological condition.
The fictionalized events read like self-inflicted wounds but perhaps awarded the author some therapy I must allow as an interloper.If you have even the slightest appreciation for engaging memoirs, First They Killed My Father is a must-read.
This was a heart-breaking memoir. It was very difficult to read . . . but imagine how much harder it was to live it.
On Monday I finished reading First They Killed My Father which is the autobiographical story of a young girl's experiences during the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia.
I have collected a couple of links over at my other blog to make a start at understanding what happened.This excellent and tender book details the experiences of a 5-year-old girl as she experiences starvation and the loss of her family members.
I think everyone should read it to understand both what happened and the necessity behind bringing the Khmer Rouge members to trial.
I just finished reading this book - another one I had a hard time putting down - I read it in 3 days.
I learned so much from this memoir which takes place, starting in April 1975 in Phnom Penh, Cambodia.
The narrator of the story is a 5 year old girl, the 2nd to youngest in a family of 7 children.
The 5 year old takes us through 5 years of the war up to the S.
It is very educational & at the same time, moving, emotional & thought provoking.
This is a very difficult book to read. It is not eloquently written, but how do you write about the Khmer Rouge and what they did to the Cambodian people April 1975-1980 eloquently? One traumatic event after the other, from the first to the last page. Reading it I simply wanted to get to the end. I am not about to questions any of that written here……. I do think this book should be read. How do you rate a book like this?
Very often, when people are asked to recall genocides in 20th century, Jews Holocaust, Stalin's purge, Rwanda or the Cultural Revolution are the very first things come to mind.
People rarely remember the Cambodia genocide (or they have never heard of) as it was always overshadowed by the Vietnam war with no or little media coverage.
I'm glad that I came across this book while searching for a perfect book on Cambodia history.
The author takes us through this event through the eyes of a 5 years old child which make it much easier to digest comparing to any history book.
This is a true survival story. The memoirs of Loung as she lived through the Khmer Roug take over of her country from 1975-1979 as a five year old girl with her parents and siblings are unbelievable. She ended up becoming an orphan as the soldiers murder her parents and two sisters during this horrible time in Cambodia. It is sometimes tough to read but her strength is truly amazing as she survives the worst time in her countrys history alone in a camp for child soldiers as Pol Pot reigns terror on all of Cambodia.
I read this book in prepartion to our trip to Cambodia in April.
I would have read it anyway, however, because I love depressing autobiographies.
This one was far different than any other I have ever read being that it was from a child's perspective.
It retold her unbelievable story of escaping the killing fields during Pol Pot's reign with the Khmer Rouge.
I think everyone in my generation needs to read this book.
Many people my age do not even know Pol Pot's name, moreless that he killed over 2 million people...in the 1970's none the less!
A heartbreaking memoir detailing the horrors of the Cambodian genocide and Khmer Rouge takeover. Loung's story spans over 4 years, from her sheltered life in Phnom Penh before the invasion, to her leaving Thailand for America. I urge anyone and everyone to read this (or listen to the audiobook, I kind of wish I had because I'm sure I was mispronouncing a lot of words in my head).
I had been eager to read Loung Ung's story for a while now, and knew I wanted to before watching Angelina Jolie's film adaptation, but waited because I knew I had to be in the right frame of mind for it.
That said, it is an incredibly important book and so worth picking up.Because this is a memoir about surviving genocide, I feel like there's not much I need or want to say about it.
Loung Ung is an incredible woman and I'm grateful to her for sharing her story with me and with everyone else who has or will read her memoirs.
Having visited Cambodia, having seen the pile of bones from the genocide, having heard her family's stories I can't help feeling a vivid pain for all the suffering the Khmer people have to go through because of Pol Pot. A magnitude not second to the holocaust and yet very much unknown to the most.
I give this book 4 stars only because at times some passages are hard to read, but i recognize the very powerful and descriptive narratives that painted a clear picture in my head of how much suffering the author had to go through.
This book is so heartbreaking at so many levels, i cannot name them.
words are useless.
I thought at one time at Susanne Collins' Hunger games.
of course, there is no comparision, i dont even know why my mind came to that.
that is pure stupid science fiction, written from somebody who never had to experience war and famine, Ung's book is pure stupid reality.
people cannot be so cruel to each other.
unfortunately it is, that is why you can not compare people with animals.
animals will never be so pointlessly cruel.
Heartbreaking, Encouraging, Gripping & Powerful! An Eye Opening, Exceptional Read! I Loved It!
It's hard to rate such a tragic story. Another country gone mad and a young girl lives through hunger, disease, lose of parents, political inanity, homelessness, hopelessness and war. This is a brutal written memoir of a brutal insane period in Cambodia.
Heartbreaking and tragic. Ung's story is one that must be read.
Loung was age 5 when this began with her family consisting of Ma, Pa and 6 brothers and sisters ranging in age of 3 to 18.
Loung tells this heart-breaking story through the eyes of a 5 year-old who is trying to understand what is happening and why.
This is a story of her amazing survival when all hope seemed to be lost.
I really enjoyed reading this story and I plan to read the next book by the author.
I wish her and her family all the best.
This is the story of a young girl's memories of life during the fall of Phnom Penh, and the subsequent takeover of Cambodia by the Khmer Rouge with the sadistic Pol Pot as its head.
Loung Ung, at 5 years old was forced to travel with her family to the country to work as laborers, mostly in fields to produce food that was then sold to China for guns, while the workers slowly starved to death.
In this memoirs she presents her daily life as they try to survive the awful conditions.
25% of Cambodia's Population die from starvation or outright execution during the revolution.
I don't think I have ever read a book any more difficult to read due to its graphic nature of such a difficult subject matter.Loung was only 5 years old when her family was forced out of their home.
I can't believe what Loung went through as a child 5-9 years old.
The things she did to survive, I can't even imagine a child that young being able to do.
There are some graphic parts that I didn't "enjoy" reading, but even the ugly things in life need to be told and remembered so that (hopefully) they aren't repeated.
the book is excellent, mostly because it is a five-year-old's perspective on living and dying during Pol Pot's cleansing project in Cambodia.
As good as this book is, it is just as emotionally exhausting.
I heard about the book while traveling through Vietnam recently, and ended up picking it up just outside of Angkor Thom in Cambodia a few weeks ago.
In the book the author talks about some of her good memories from some of the places I visited, in particular Angkor Thom, so that was neat.
3/10/08Just read this book again...even better the second time around.
This was a horrific story of the terror and violence that the Khmer Rouge inflicted on the innocent people of Cambodia.
Loung is the daughter of a high ranking government official, and the very type of family that the Khmer Rouge despise.
The camp hardships and fear take their toll on the family and things get worse when they are all gradually separated into different camps, not knowing if they will ever see each other again, all individually struggling for survival.I'm not going to spoil the book by saying anything about what happens in the camps or what happens to the characters.
This is a book that you must read and uncover the horrors for yourself and I highly recommend this one to those who like these true life stories.
This was a touching book. It was about struggle, hunger, trying times and a girl's strength to overcome. It's about a family's love, a woman's experience as a child in Cambodia. I was often in tears throughout the book imagining what it must have been like to go through such horrible things.I listened to the audiobook and enjoyed the narrator. I definitely recommend this book to anyone whom wants to learn about this part of history, or really to anyone!
