https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7241256-the-comet
I never knew that the famed civil rights activist had written a piece of post-apocalyptic fiction!
DuBois was primarily concerned with human rights, not fiction, and this is a story with a message: (view spoiler)[The bank vault survivor is a black man, and he discovers another survivor: a wealthy white woman.
The question at the core of much of this genre is: What would we be, if everything we take for granted was stripped away?Often, authors answer that question with "barbaric and terrible in oh so many ways." DuBois has a different answer, and I think his has much truth to it.
This was sooo good! I was shocked to find out the DuBois wrote a sci-fi short story, so I had to hunt it down. It is really well-done, blending the horror of an apocalyptic sci-fi story with pointed reminders of the racism that defines our society. For one moment, that racism is transcended with the seeming end of humanity... only to reassert itself in ugly ways.(Note that I reading this in "The Big Book of Science Fiction," ed. by Ann & Jeff Vandermeer (2016).
I definitely need to re-read this - there are underlying themes in this incredibly short book I know I missed. What I did not miss are the racial and social justice themes which hit you like a ton of bricks at the end. Written in 1920, it is amazing how not much has changed. Except for the fact that you just don't say "the n word" out loud (as is done several times in this book), this could have been written in any year subsequent to 1920 which is what makes it so sad.
This was a fascinating look at what it might take to have a post racial world.
Listened here: https://soundcloud.com/user-689299918...
… 'The Comet' (1920) isn't just a story about an impending science-fictional catastrophe but also the start of a conversation about race relations and a proto-Afro-futurist tale.” (p.xvi)Introduction:“[T]he story presents a rare early nonwhite science fiction perspective.” (p53)'The Comet' (1920) story:“He stood a moment on the steps of the bank, watching the human river that swirled down Broadway.” (p54)“'Yesterday they would not have served me.'” (p56)“Yesterday, he thought with bitterness, she would scarcely have looked at him twice.
W.E.B. Du Bois was one of the foremost intellectuals of his time, and one of the most influential black men in American history.
"The Souls of Black Folk" is an exceptional collection of essays on racism in America written with remarkable insight and knowledge, serving as a historical text alongside a didactic one.This short story does not reach the same heights.
It's well-written and the characters are sympathetic, but the main point regarding racism is driven home in a heavy-handed manner.
I would have liked to see it develop more naturally, through subtle character interactions rather than overt symbolism, which I felt cheapened the story.
This story was much shorter that what I expected, but dealt wit home heavy hitting issues for the time it was written (1920's). It revolves around a black man and a white woman who find themselves in NYC where every other living person is dead. It is an interesting look at the racial prejudices of the day, and how they can break down in extreme circumstances. I imagine it was quite shocking in the time it was written.
Have a presentation for uni to make about this type of fiction so not gonna elaborate on this. Short story with Sci-fi commonly called afrofuturism? deeper meaning explicitly showed, can't say more without spoiling.
Really brief, but so magically written. Time to read more Du Bois fiction...
I've never read anything like this.
This was a fun, nuanced, sad story.
