https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/652080.How_to_Develop_Superpower_Memory
Possible the best - and certainly most practical - self-help book you will ever read. The method he outlines just simply WORKS and works instantly and amazingly. Anyone who knows me knows that I am not easy to impress yet this book does what it says on the lid.The memory method Harry teaches uses crazy outlandish associations together with a peg system of memory. take the effort to get past the first few boring chapters and onto the method itself. Harry is a magician and many magicians use metho
Anyone who knows me knows that I am  not easy to impress yet this book does what it says on the lid.The memory method Harry teaches uses crazy outlandish associations together with a peg system of memory.
Harry is a magician and many magicians use methods like these to perform memory feats.This book got me through my O levels and A levels since I did hardly any work (OK hardly any = none).PS Anybody who gives it a score less than 4 stars probably is even lazier than I am and didn't even bother to learn the peg words.
With the Link Method you can forget a list whenever you want. Train your observation skills: Write the objects of a room in a list. Repeat it. See what you missed. Look at one person for a moment, close your eyes and try to mentally describe every detail of this person's face.Look at a shop window display. at a proficient level remember pricesThere are 2 types of readers. Those who read to remember and those who read to forget
However, this book was quite special in it's own light, seeing how it can be helpful in daily lives.This book helps memorize abstract objects (in sequence and in-and-out of order), names of people you just met only once, long digits, telephone numbers, appointments, errands, foreign words, important dates etc.—just as the author assures you throughout the book.
A business man traveling in the mid-west was told about an Indian, living in the vicinity, who had a most fantastic memory.
Finally, he decided to try one last question."What did you have for breakfast on the morning of April 5th, 1931?"The Indian didn't hesitate for even a second, as he answered, "eggs!"The business man took his leave, completely stunned by this prodigious memory.
It wouldn't be an overstatement if I say this book changed my life. :-)
Though a couple of age old techniques that seems outdated, this non fiction title stood out for its engaging writing. Despite the old school techniques, the book stood out in the minds of young students. Not a book to miss in any era of reading class.
If you just want to improve your memory or want to become a memory athlete, this book is ideal as first step towards your goal.
I am an entertainer and a memory expert, not a psychiatrist or a doctor, and I didn't think it necessary to go into an explanation of the workings of the human brain, and just how the memory actually works in terms of cells, curves, impressions, etc.” I don’t want to be bogged down by technicality, but a little bit to help me understand how something works wouldn’t kill you.With today’s technology, we really do not need to remember everything, because we can jot them down on our phones, put reminders, schedule appointments, address books, dictionaries, and so forth, and I certainly will not say this is a bad thing.
I would frankly give this book 3.5 rating.This book majorly consists of two systems.Pros:1.Link System2.Peg SystemThe Description about the book cannot be commented here.
It should be understood when you read the book.
The author knows how to teach his readers in the most simple ways.
He recognizes the attitude of readers and very inspirational just lyk backbone to the readers from the first to last page of the bookCons:1.This book is a Bit Outdated.2.Some of the chapters would be felt as useless.3.Its like author had written some chapters like remembering names for the western people, other people would feel the names as unfamiliar to them.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone.
It was originally published in 1957 so some things are a bit outdated (such as having telephone operators and calling people by their last names), but the principles are excellent and absolutely still apply.
Memory is so useful, and I have found that by learning the systems in the book, not only do I now have the tools to remember faces, names, long numbers, lists, etc, my true memory has also improved.
Going over the peg words in my mind at night not only helps me fall asleep, it is good exercise for my brain.
One of the first memory books, this looking for memory tricks will realize there is nothing new in content. however, Lorayne's telling, while old fashioned, is enjoyable, and I liked the jokes that headed each chapter. While the text and tone are old fashioned, the majority of the material is just as relevant today - except the phone numbers, lol. Seriously, though, the method behind memorization remains useful, even if there are no letters.
Fascinating memory systems. I started this with a particular scheme in mind, but the progress so far is pretty cool. Ex: currently making lists of 50 random objects, numbering them one through 50, later I can name them, by number, in any order. Weird... It's a .pdf I have.
A fantastic little book for memory tricks. The technique seems easy and straightforward. It shows how the miraculous memory stunts can be built from such simple techniques, however, only possible with practice, practice, and practice!
A good intro book for memory technique. The techniques are good enough for most people but nothing new to memory geeks.
Let me start
Good tricks to remember about anything: phone numbers, names, dates, actions, etc.
My memory for numbers is owed to this book!
Since school, most of the techniques are still benefiting me.
This book is awesome. Read it here:How To Develop a Super Power Memory
I read this 40 years ago when I was amazed at how quickly and easily I became able to remember things. It is a bit clunky now but is worth the read if you want an easy entry into the field.
Great book. Already started using some of the methods. If you pay attention to what you need to remember, you are half-way there.
كتاب يمثل نقطة البداية لرحلتي نحو هدف امتلاك ذاكرة قوية.بسيط و مفيد
