https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/491893.Rockbound
“An’ what might ye be wantin?” said the old man, the king of Rockbound. “I wants fur to be yur sharesman,” answered David. “Us works here on Rockbound.” “I knows how to work.” “Knows how to work an’ brung up on de Outposts!” jeered Uriah. “Us has half a day’s work done ’fore de Outposters rub sleep out o’ dere eyes, ain’t it!” “I knows how to work,” repeated the boy stubbornly. “Where’s yur gear an’ clothes at?” “I’se got all my gear an’clothes on me,” said David, grinning down at his buttonles
Onto this framework, author Frank Parker Day grafts vivid descriptions of the land and sea; the back breaking work of fishing and the cleaning of the catch; and the daily routines of the men and women who would choose this life.
He had all de women an' children skeert, an' de men, too, an' dey was dat skeert, dey was goin' to give up dere fish stands an' move to oder parts o' de main or maybe some o' de islands.
Winner of Canada Reads for 2005, with Rockbound Parker Day has memorialised a long gone time and place and I completely enjoyed my time revisiting that world.
This book is a classic and a fitting winner of the Canada Reads award.
Yet even in the darkness and within the unrelenting work of the people who live on Rockbound island, we see human warmth, compassion and even love.
Life on Rockbound is hard.
The people on Rockbound are farmers and fishermen and they all pitch in and work very hard in order to keep food on the table and the wolf from the door.
The story and the people of Rockbound will remain with me for a long time.
This was a perfect book to discover on the shelf of my family's place in Maine. Written in 1928, the language is smooths and masterful, and the story is both classic and original at the same time. The tragedies so well known to fishing communities like the fictional Rockbound of Nova Scotia are not glossed over in this book, but the author also acknowledges the culture and great spirit that those communities had as well. This was a thrilling sea yarn, educational treatise on fishing methods, anda tribute to the strong men and women of the southern Nova Scotia coast.
Love, friendship, and tragedy occur in Parker Day's romantic view of the original Nova Scotian island Ironbound as the fictional character David faces his Goliath, and makes a place for himself on the cold, unforgiving rocks of the island.Rockbound was another novel we were required to read in my seminar class, and sadly wasn't a favorite of mine nor the majority of the class's.
I have to give props to Day for actually fleshing out a tragedy worthy of Shakespeare in those last few chapters that was, sadly, my favorite part of Rockbound, but on the whole the novel is slow, tedious, and so full of fishing and sailing technicalities it bored me to death.
originally published in 1928, 'rockbound' never made much of a splash with book sales, but the novel crops up in CanLit courses across the country.
in 2005, the novel was included in Canada Reads - and ended up winning.
this was cool because it brought a whole new audience to the book!set on an island off nova scotia's south shore, the story well depicts the hardships of rural and fishing life, and the challenges of a community almost completely connected as family.
it felt a bit simplistic at times, and was too tidy at the end.i am glad i finally had a chance to read this book.
My best read so far this year. Day's descriptions drew me right intothe story, and every page was a gem, right from beginning to end. Clearand poignant evocation of setting, characters, community, tradition..Voted as the book all of Canada should read in 2005 by CBC Canada Readsprogram. I'm not sure that I would agree with that lofty opinion, butloved it all the same. Excellent read. Highly recommended.QUOTE: “Life was like the sea that began the destruction of an island as soon as it had made it.” [p. 134]
Beautifully written period piece, about life on an island in Maritime Canada. Written in 1928, Day does a great job of painting the life through story of a remote fishing community, describing the hard life they lived in a natural style that makes this story easy to read, despite the colloquial dialogue of the time which once you get into its rhythm becomes easy and enjoyable to follow. Best read while listening to The Waterboy's Fisherman's Blues on repeat and enjoying a rum or two at the same time.
This is another one of those books I would have never read if it weren't for Book Club, however, I'm glad I read it.Truthfully, I found it hard to follow.
The dialogue made it especially difficult and I found myself needing to read it aloud to even come close to understanding it.
I'm not patient enough to read and re-read lines to try to figure it out.
I did love the parts about the teacher coming to the island and David wanting to learn to read.
I thoroughly enjoyed Rockbound-4.5 stars.
It was written in 1928 but has a timeless quality as it explores the harsh lives of fishermen on the small fictional island of Rockbound, Nova Scotia.
A unique aspect of this book is Day's use of an old east- coast dialect, which makes the dialogue very vivid.
Highly recommened if you want a glimpse of east-coast life in the past.Canada Reads winner 2005
It was certainly an entertaining read.
It took a couple chapters for me to get into it thought, almost put it down for good after Chapter one.
The dialogue wasn't the easiest to read, and was distracting.
Found it difficult to immerse myself into the situations and dialogue.
I didn't care for any of the characters at first, and it wasn't until a third of the way through that I found they became interesting and wanted to follow their story.
I enjoyed the book, it spoke to me as a Maritimer, but it won't be at the top of my recommendations list.
I am not sure that I would recommend this book, but I enjoyed reading it while in Nova Scotia as a kind of study of place. Written in 1928, the language and stereotypes are jolting. There is so much good stuff out there to read without being reminded of how far we have come.
What a wonderful story from Nova Scotia. You cheer for David all through the book. The characters are real and poignant. I highly recommend this book.
This book has a fairy tale quality and includes frequent references to both The Tempest and The Canterbury Tales. It's essentially a fable set in the Maritimes. While it flirts with Realism in its depictions of fishing and light house keeping, it obviously Romanticizes quite a bit. As a Maritimer, better Romanticized than ignored.
A little bit of Nova Scotia.
David must fight for his place in this fishing family.
Ultimately though, it could have been just another tale of family struggles, set in the fog and cold of a small fishing out port.What makes this book extraordinary is the language.
You get a strong sense of the world that David, Uriah and the others lived in, far away from others, on a rugged landscape.You can hear the place that they’re in, as you read.
Altogether, it is a beautifully written book that will let you escape to another time and another world
This is the story of how David becomes a man and makes his way in life, despite the hardship that Uriah imposes on him.Thus begins the story of two families, the Jungs and the Krauses living together on Rockbound in close quarters and fighting one another every step of the way.
It is now considered a classic of maritime fiction, especially lauded for its detail and authenticity in its descriptions of life on the sea.Much of the dialogue appears in the "Lunenburg Dutch" spoken along the South Shore of Nova Scotia.
Once you get over that initial difficulty however, the dialogue flows more easily.A wonderful classic tale.A 2005 Canada Reads winner.
My maternal grandfather was in his late teens when a woman – a teacher I imagine – taught him the sounds of letters.
“Perhaps,” he thought, “dey was a gift o’ God to men, an’ t’rough dem I kin find out somethin’ good.” .Now, about the book… I did like it, but after this line I would had liked anything the author wrote.Then, about my grandfather, all of his daughters became teachers; one actually went back to school in her 40’s to become a lawyer.
7 January 2010Promises to be a David and Goliath story of mythical proportions, set on a rugged island, isolated and harsh.
Character-driven and with a strong sense of place, the book evokes a real time and place.
The characters and setting are eminently believable, notwithstanding the lack of excessive descriptive passages.
We understand David and his struggle, through his actions but never seem privy to his personal thoughts.
The characters are revealed through their behaviours and their actions.
Most times when I think about books about Atlantic Canada and fishing, my first thought that it is going to be depressing.
Rockbound is a book about David Jung who goes to the island of Rockbound as an orphan to work for his uncle Uriah, who is known as the King of Rockbound.
David must work hard to prove his worth, and to try to be accepted into the Jung family.
This is a wonderful story about David's life and the people on the island.
This is a wonderful story with vivid characters that you will love.
It follows a basic plot structure, one main likeable protagonist, some not completely evil 'villains,' drama and a bit of romance.
Actually, literarily (Shakespearean) speaking, it is a romance because the devil intercedes at one point.David is a young man with a good work ethic who strives to reclaim his land on a island, Rockbound.
There are two feuding families on the island and a local lighthouse.
The dialogue is written in dialect, which makes the characters so much more real.(small spoiler alert) I just really enjoyed it -- David perseveres and nothing absolutely horrible happens to him, the ending is "happy" (which I normally hate) and loose ends are nicely tied up.
A reprint of a book originally released in 1928.It was a Canada Reads 2005 Winner.
It is written by the now passed author Frank Parker Day. It is a fiction set in the off shore islands on the south of Nova Scotia.
This book starts out rather slowly but if you soldier on it is a most interesting read.
It is a truly interesting look into the difficult lives the early fishermen of the time had and how simple the life style was.
It is great to read something about Canada written by a Canadian.
This book was published in 1928 and I came across it because of its Canada Reads (2005) status.
It gives a fascinating account life as a fisherman on the south shore of Nova Scotia in the early 20th century.
Only thing i didn't like was too much dialogue written in strong accents.
On the other hand, some people on the south shore still sound somewhat like that!
Anyway, great read about the Atlantic and a life that's hard to imagine now.
This is a classic of life on an island of the coast of Nova Scotia.
He is as hard atask master, some would say a slave driver as he is avaricious.The language of the fishermen and women is very idiomatic and hard to follow at first but it is an integral element of the characters and story.This book was recommended to me by an East coast inhabitant before my visit there later this month.
After reading this book I understand the lifestyle on the opposite coast to mine better than before.Read it and enjoy!
This book captivated me! I could envision the characters vividly. I found them to be engaging, interesting and certainly human. I am aware of the outcry of the people at the time this book was published and empathize with their desire not to look foolish in the eyes of the world. However, I read resilience, survival, family ties that bind, and endurance. Any sense of the foolish and absurd gave way in my admiration for their fortitude. Recommended for anyone looking to expand their range of Canadian literature.
I've read this book twice now.
While I enjoyed it more the first time around, it's still a fascinating look at life in a very isolated Nova Scotian community in the early 20th century.
The central character, David Jung, has come to Rockbound to claim his late mother's property.
David disrupts the "kingdom" of Uriah Jung, the patriarch of the island.
Life is difficult for everyone in the book, and you won't be smiling much as you read, but it's still enjoyable and well-written.
The dialect used by the author is like trying to decipher Joseph's lines in Wuthering Heights.
Some books are nice to read - others nice to have read to you.
The audiobook is very good and the narration is the perfect way to experience the story.
It is the tale of a fishing community in Nova Scotia.
There are storms, shipwrecks, epic courtships, fish harvests, fights, boozing and more, largely told in local vernacular.
I do not know if it is at all true to life (as it was long ago) but it seems so authentic - it is how many of us imagine it to be.It is a rollicking story well told, and to my mind an essential piece of Canadiana.
If you enjoy Canadiana and/or books about agrarian, rough existences then this is the book for you. If you can't handle reading vernacular dialogue, steer clear! If it's something you enjoy, this book is a gem in that regard. I loved this book. It's always refreshing to read older books because of the strong, classic narratives that are out of style (except for fantasy) in this po-mo world. It's a fast, easy read, with piles of sensory experiences that will make you both fear and love the cold Atlantic.
As someone who grew up on the prairies and have only lived in Western Canada I have very little knowledge of the history, stories and traditions that emerge from Atlantic Canada. This book inspires me to learn more.Day depicts the lives of a group of men who depend on fishing for their livelihood. The women do not play a major role in the story except as plot devices. The real struggle is between the men and the ocean as they try to eke out a living on small isolated island on Nova Scotia's South Shore.
Life on a half-mile wide island off the coast of Nova Scotia in the very early 1900s. The twenty or so inhabitants are tough and hard-working, earn a tenuous living from the sea, and mostly hate each other. The author weaves good quasi-love-story out of the setting though- the characters are memorable and the dialogue (though difficult to read at first b/c of the thick vernacular)is entertaining. Enjoyed it!
This book is considered a classic of Nova Scotia literature. I enjoyed it, but I found the east coast dialect difficult to get used to and to understand. It worked for me as a novel that portrayed what life was like for isolated fisher families. I did not feel that I really got to know the main character well, but I could easily picture a stereotype of him. I must confess to skimming all the sailing lingo as it meant nothing to land-bound me.
