https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28372.The_Last_Days
Raymond QueneauIn the 1920s Raymond Queneau went to Paris for his final days of formal education. He kept a detailed journal of his time there and in 1936 he wrote this autobiographical novel based on those years as a student in Paris. Times had changed. In 1936 the threat of imminent war hung over Europe, and so even though he was writing about relatively carefree student days in Paris the tinge of the times he was experiencing in 1936 had an influence on the novel. Calling the 1920s The Last
Calling the 1920s The Last Days I think definitely indicates the state of mind of not only Queneau, but the French people in general.
These days there's nothing to tell you when to wear your overcoat or when to leave it off."Vincent Tuquedenne our hero and the character representing the young Raymond Queneau arrives in Paris.
Queneau uses their maudlin state of mind to explore what comes next.Let me tell you, monsieur, that while hell may perhaps exist heaven certainly does not exist.
Queneau reenters the Paris of his youth, the 1920's, though the novel was written in 1936, taking us by the hand to not only relive those years with him through his protagonist but to learn past the humor of his smile, the cool distance of the nib of his pen, the chilling conclusions he reached about the reality he found around and within him.Tagging along with fellow students to the cafes of Paris in the 20's, socially inept, vaulted into a shyness by a well honed self-castigation, he listens to the fury of conversation steaming about politics, science, philosophy, religion.
The book captures a time that won't ever come again -- a truism that applies to every moment, but this sensation is particularly acute to its two groups of characters, an assortment of young students and elderly people.
Paris in the 1920s is the milieu, but that's less the fleeting moment than that in-between time of being in college and (I'm guessing) those days of knowing that death isn't too far away.
This heightened awareness of endings animates the characters as they weave through each others' lives, bent on avoiding studies, chasing girls, concocting swindles, betting on horses, maiming blind people, and mostly trying to find out how to navigate the next phase of their existence.
Queneau contrasts the lives of two groups of people (this is a book of doubles, and rhymes of character and incident- I didn’t make this discovery on my own through close reading, it’s pretty much explicitly laid out in the introduction that this is what’s going on structurally and what do you know?
the introduction was not wrong- this is a book about doubles and rhymes of character and incident), a group of students studying among other things philosophy and literature and history, who do more drinking and trying to get laid and pondering and wandering about the glorious topography of Paris and getting into various schemes than studying, and a group of aged men who are anticipating the embrace of the tomb and dealing with their own schemes, ambitions, regrets.
A philosophical novel framed around an autobiographical coming-of-age tale set in 1920s Paris.
The story follows the Queneau-template Tuquedenne, a loner who can’t get laid and who falls in love with ideas, and the aging hustler Brabbant, a charming desperado who likes his dames young.
Queneau weaves, with his particular humour and alchemy, multiple stories together, capturing a world in flux and the melancholy of late-adolescent life: the fleeting friends, frolics and finaglings.
This world is contrasted with that of the old-timers, edging closer to death and contemplating their paradoxical lives.
The result is a disarming and thoughtful work: more overtly ponderous than his other books.
Apart from small departures into word-play this seems like Queneau driving home the nails in the casket of his childhood.
Instead, we get a Chaplin-like (director's)view of the time, place and interactions that comprise a childhood, cinematographic with the ability to shine the proper light, pull the right face and dictate the pace of the story of a life with a composer's mastery of pace and tone.
Pathos, humor and an absolute horror of taking yourself too seriously on full display, it's no surprise that Q describes his France as a place where Chaplin has arrived - and let the detail tell you the rest of the story.
A strange and funny book--set in Paris in the '20s and focused on a few key characters in two groups, a handful of college students (including Queneau's alter ego), and a handful of old men.
The two groups intersect because of family relationships and because one of the old men taught a couple of the college students.
The students eat, drink, talk and skirt-chase (sometimes in the brothels).
The old men eat, drink, play billiards--and one of them skirt-chases as well.
Odd, intellectual in a way, and featuring an absolutely classic character in Alfred, the waiter who has also worked out over several years a system that can absolutely, within certain areas, predict the future.
Takhle by to nešlo pane Quenaeoaneaou. Zakoupil jsem knihu za těžce vydřený prachy, který mi půjčila moje stará a jak to dopadlo? Taková nuda. Zkoušel jsem k tomu pít dokonce i vodku, která knihám většinou dost pomáhá, ale tady to nezabralo. Sem tam probleskne génius, kterým Queanaiaao je, ale je to, jak říkají američani a moje žena při sexu - too late and too little. 6/10
*note to self: in this one, too, like The Winter of the Black Snow couple characters have a theory for the weather, the big guns of the war, the war to end all wars, world war numbered one in tis story...unlike war number two for winter of the black snow.
seems like there was another story that had this same idea floating...perhaps in the winter review.
too...curious...a scene herein where the characters are laughing at another, high cockolorum...didn't find it funny too much and it is curious for the question that raises.
a note, is all, nothing more nothing less.
notes to my self.
Tuhle knížku už si nepamatuju. Vím jen, že jeho jiné knihy mě bavily víc, a že jsem ji nechala v Jack's Backpackers hostelu v Blenheimu na Novém Zélandu. Třeba tam ještě je...
On retrouve le style enjoué de Queneau, entre jeux de mots, écriture légère et néologismes. Beaucoup d'humour, d'auto-dérision (on suit entre autres les péripéties de Tuquedenne/Queneau étudiant - un type plutôt solitaire qui réfléchit sur tout mais n'arrive pas à vivre sa vie comme il l'aimerait, toujours en retrait) mais aussi de nostalgie. Les Derniers Jours nous rappelle le temps qui passe inexorablement, qui nous fait passer d'une étape de vie à une autre sans avoir le temps de nous retourner et nous amène cycle après cycle vers notre fin, comme le dit Alfred le garçon de café.
But now that I have finished The Last Days(1936), I think I have discovered a major talent.The Last Days is the story of what one might call a social cohort, a group of people of varying ages who know each other to varying degrees.
He used to say to me: “You see, the customers, they’re like a pile of dead leaves.”I asked him why.
“Leaves, when they’re on the tree, if you didn’t know that autumn existed you might think they’d stay there forever.
This is the kind of book that you'll mostly forget when you close it's pages and go on to read your next quest.
There are some who go, some who leave, and those who always stay, like Tolut's ghost and Alfred's observations on people and planets.
I did think Tolut referring to himself as a moral crook for teaching geography (despite the fact he'd never traveled out of France) actually intriguing.
And how do we teach these unknowables?
I mean, Tolut wasn't gaga.
Tolut was a philosopher.
I think Alfred is the one, though, that was the keenest of them all.
Tohle se teda panu Queneauouauoavi nepovedlo.
Stejně jako se mi teď nepovedlo napsat jeho jméno.
Ale tak už to v životě chodí.
Já taky umím chodit a tak jsem přišel, abych seslal toto skvělé intro.
Bonžůr!Poslední dny vyprávějí příběh studentů a profesorů v Paříži, jejichž osudy se scházejí v kavárně, kde děla Alfréd.
Alfréd umí číst hvězdy a čísla a tak předpovídá budoucnost a vyhraje na dostihách balík.
A studenti maj prázdniny a pak je zas nemaj a profesoři taky a tak dále pana krále.
Humoru aby člověk pohledal.
No hnůj.Pro mne podobný zklamání jako život po třicítce.
Dávám tomu 4/10.
Možná jsem se měla nechat odradit recenzemi. De facto je to o tom, jak se partička profesorů (a studentů a tak) schází na pernod. Hodně se tam hovoří celkem o ničem a i děj je nijaký, ale a občas je to i zajímavé, když se tam mluví o smrti a pitvách. Takže tak dvě stránky hodnotím kladně.
Habrá que esperar unos pocos años para que esta vaya al encuentro de la literatura: Queneau narrará su época de estudiante en Los últimos días, y sus tiempos de surrealista en Odile.
Uno dei primi libri di Queneau e già vi si possono trovare tracce dell'Autore che sarà.
Pur essendo considerato dalla critica come uno dei suoi testi meno riusciti risulta, comunque, godibile in un intreccio continuo di personaggi che si lambiscono l'un l'altro, ognuno ignorando il ruolo che gli altri ricoprono nelle quotidiane vicende che si susseguono.
Tra i diversi personaggi colpisce la crisi morale di un professore in pensione che scopre di aver millantato una conoscenza che non possedeva: per tutta la vita ha insegnato geografia senza aver mai viaggiato, senza saper nulla di quei luoghi su cui lungamente aveva dissertato.Il vero tema del racconto, però, è lo scorrere del tempo ed il ripetersi quotidiano e immutabile di vita e morte.
A tale chock full of dualities, wherein characters, events, and themes find themselves paired with one another in manners that are at once complimentary and contrapuntal. Queneau is wonderful at imbuing a single moment with competing forces that, rather than cancel each other out, add nuance and complexity. An ordinary day in Queneau’s Paris is at once tragic and hopeful, bitter and hilarious.
Makes boozing, whoring, Cubism, playing horses, and romanticizing Paris between wars seem unwholesome, petty, and antipathetic to Man's Destiny, but I liked it a lot. Plenty notable metaphors, even in translation, the best of which are kinda too crude to list here.
as overtly misogynistic as kerouc's on the road. it's really turned me off to the rest of his work. :/
Whimsical, a decent book
talked about it some here: http://5cense.com/12/palermo_last.htm
being bored, antic, and smart as all get out in 1920s paris. what's to complain? anything by queaneau is worth the time just cause he's so damn smart and playful.
Gli uni sono ansiosi di un presente e un futuro "in società" e invasati da velleità pseudo-intellettuali (non politiche ma da bohemienne "a parole") e gli altri da sogni di viaggi e chiacchiere di fronte ad un bicchiere ma ben consapevoli del plumbeo futuro.
Il ritratto di un popolo, quello della Francia delle cittadine, imbevuto di autocompiacimento e che è di fatto il perfetto prodromo del decadimento che sarebbe esploso negli anni successivi, di una nazione incapace di difendersi (troppo presuntuosa).
"In the rue d'Assas he got into a bus and sat down facing an extremely pretty girl.
Naturally, this girl didn't interest him in the least.
He looked at the landscape: he had the impression that the other passengers were saying to themselves: 'That boy with the long hair is making eyes at the girl opposite him.'; but it wasn't true, he wasn't at all making eyes at her.
He looked at her.
She got out at Montparnasse; a non descript human-being replaced her.
If his parents hadn't been expecting him he might well have got off and followed her and spoken to her.
