https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/68099.Death_at_La_Fenice
Death at La Fenice is the 1st book in the exciting Guido Brunetti Series by Donna Leon, set in the beautiful, romantic, mysterious and unique city of Venice.The series features Commissario Guido Brunetti, family man, modest, moral, loyal and philosophical detective extraordinaire.When famed conductor Helmut Wellauer is found dead in his dressing room between Acts 2 and 3 of the of LA TRAVIATA at the La Fenicia theatre, Brunetti is assigned to investigate the murder by cyanide poisoning.
The trick is in keeping it for a hundred years, and then you’re aristocrats.’ ‘Is that so different from here?’ Brunetti asked.
Nažalost, naša publika nije dobro prihvatila ovu autorku i njen serijal knjiga pa je izdavač odustao od daljeg objavljivanja... Šteta... Donu Leon sam imala prilike da upoznam na jednom sajmu i da RTS-u obezbedim kratko "časkanje" s njom... I naravno, ne gubim nadu da će je neko opet objavljivati u Srbiji... Da ne poverujete, krimići, ubistva, i prelepa Venecija i publika to ne prihvata :)
Let me start by saying that I love Venice and all things Venetian.
I love reading anything that has to do with Venice.
I've heard from more than one person that Donna Leon was a good author, but after reading this book, I have serious doubts about that and I'm not sure she deserves a second chance.
I got halfway through the book when the detective expresses his frustration at feeling as though he knew nothing more about what had happened, and I felt exactly the same way as the reader.
Well, I've now entered the world of Commissario Guido Brunetti, of the police force of Venice.
This is the first of Donna Leon's long-running series set in that fabled city, which is equally a character in the novel.
This was an enjoyable beginning with a nice introduction to Brunetti's family, his investigation techniques, many fellow officers, and assorted Venetians of all stripes.
His travels around the city give an interesting and occasionally claustrophobic feeling to the place.I enjoyed the process of working through the crime and clues, learning about the characters.
I like the way Leon developed the plot and her primary character and look forward to reading many more in this series.
Everyone else works for Brunetti, all he does is make a few calls and/or rely on people he knows to lay it out to him in endless monologues.....and the dialogues are agonizingly boring!Here is an example, Brunetti calls his a friend of his, who opens the conversation by sympathizing with comimissario over how 'pressured' he must feel to solve this case.
It's so bad, I felt it is an insult to books- even the most trashy writing is way better and can at least be considered a guilty pleasure.
I chose this book, the first in the Commissario Brunetti mystery series, because the setting is Venice, and my family and I will be briefly visiting there soon.
Some of my favorite quotes:“He left his office and walked slowly up towards Piazza San Marco.
It seemed to him that all the shops that served the native population – pharmacies, shoemakers, groceries – were slowly and inexorably disappearing, replaced by slick boutiques and souvenir shops that catered to the tourists, filled with luminescent plastic gondolas from Taiwan and papier-mâché masks from Hong Kong.
Some have a slightly better story, a little more engaging than others, but for the most part, the books are about Brunetti, and about Venezia, and the Italian people.Commissario Guido Brunetti is a deep and interesting character, but he is unlike most detectives you’ll find in American mystery books.
Brunetti solves crimes with his wits, and all the while deals with crooked politicians; his independent and wonderful wife; and his 2 children, who come complete with the normal teenage problems.
If you haven’t read Leon before, and if you’re fond of Italy or the Italian people, rush out and get one of her books.
The novel does have some nice descriptions of Venice and the Venetians but otherwise I found the writing a bit stilted and the story somewhat predictable.
Comissario Guido Brunetti is the detective in charge of investigating the death of a famous German conductor half way through a performance of La Traviata.
He is an interesting character and consummate Italian who seems to be able to run the investigation his own way despite an overbearing boss and has a good feel for when people are telling him all they know or not.
Leon, Donna. DEATH AT LA FENICE. (1992). ****. This was the author’s first in her series of cases featuring Commissario Guido Brunetti and the city of Venice – so much for my reading the books in order. The mysteries, so far, seem to be low key psychological investigations into various crimes, concentrating on the people behind the crimes rather than on the crimes themselves. In this respect, Ms. Leon ha modeled herself after the novels of George Simenon and his police commissioner Maigret. As w
In this adventure, a world famous conductor is found dead in his dressing room at the Fenice opera house in Venice.
The immediate problem that Brunetti encounters is that there are too many potential suspects that might have had reason to spike the maestro’s tea with cyanide, from his current wife to his past ones.
Brunetti is at first overwhelmed with all of the potential candidates, but soon realizes that he will only find out the facts of the current deed by exploring the history of the conductor himself.
Mein erstes Buch von Donna Leon. Nachdem es schon jahrelang auf meiner to-read Liste stand habe ich es endlich gelesen. Brunetti ist mir super sympathisch. Irgendwie mag ich diese Art von Krimi einfach sehr. Tolle Lektüre.
Death at La Fenice: A Commissario Brunetti Mystery by Donna LeonDonna Leon is a master at developing irresistible characters, and her portraitures of Venice are done so well, that it was if I were there once again marveling at the antiquity and majesty of the city.
The highly creative characters and the location of the story made it the page turner it is.
The story is built around the likable Commissario Dottore Guido Brunetti, Police commissioner of Venice Italy, and his investigation into the murder of one of the greatest musicians and conductors of the time, maestro Helmut Wellauer.
Enter police commissioner Brunetti, who has to figure out which of these people had the best reason to want the conductor dead.
This takes many chapters, and lots of interviews over the phone and in restaurants with a variety of people who worked with the conductor over the years.
The pace moves slowly, and there are very few major plot-twisting revelations until the very end, where everything suddenly speeds up and I kept expecting Brunetti to put on his sunglasses and tell someone that This Shit Just Got Real.
Sweet, but I wanted the story to focus on, ya know, the murder.
Oh I do so love visiting a foreign city and reading this book was as good as wandering around Venice for real. A great character in Commisario Brunetti who comes alive in front of one’s eyes. Great plotting and beautiful descriptions which evoke the reality of Venice. I have not read Brunettin order so starting at the beginning is a bit strange but it feels rather good. I look forward to catching up on the other ones I have missed!
The first in this long-running series and Brunetti emerges fully-formed from the start with his humane efficiency, and his charming family. The plot doesn't have the same emotional and politicized depths as some of the later books but the Venetian setting and immaculate writing make this stand out in an over-crowded crime marketplace.
Reading this book reminded me why I can't usually find in genre fiction what satisfies me in a novel.
I think this is a pretty good example of genre fiction.
It does not flaunt, for example, the deliberately awkward and ugly similes characteristic of noir fiction.
Geof Dyer's 's Jeff in Venice and Death in Varanasi, not a good book in my view, never the less makes Venice much more alive and interesting.
Le Guin, and Nabokov’s fine science fiction novel Ada, for example.
Fabuloso! Bravo, Signora Leon, on the first book in the Commissario Brunetti series. I will be reading more.* Oops! Correction, that should be "Brava, Signora Leon."
Brunetti must quickly solve this case as the victim's high profile creates added pressure on city officials to provide answers.
Brunetti is introduced in this first book of the series and he is an interesting study.
After having read so many murder and mayhem books of late, I found Guido Brunetti to be refreshing once I settled back, relaxed and convinced myself that there weren't going to be any serial killers here (for now).
Brunetti's family is also quite interesting in their normalcy as well as with their individuality.
It's the first in a series taking place in and around Venice.
Some pluses for me - First of all it takes place in Italy, a place I love.
There's lots of talk about food and wine, two of my favorite things.
I love how everyone here has a glass (or two) of wine with lunch and then back to work!
One complaint is that the story line felt a little dated to me.
I suppose Italy, a very Catholic country, could be in a different place regarding this (non)issue.
And did I mention the food and wine?
I love Italy and I've tried reading a few of the Italian masters of crime fiction.
Some people might like Donna Leon and I'm sure she has an army of fans but I found the prose stilted and dull, the plot cadaverous and the book stuffed with cliches and dull stereotypes about Italian life and culture.
The prose style read as if it had been badly translated from the Italian.....it turns out the author is an American.
I don't think I'll bother with another, I'll stick with genuine Italian crime fiction.
This was a quick read (for me), so to say I didn't enjoy reading it would be wrong.
It's possible he actually becomes one in subsequent books in the series.
The problem is that I like mysteries to be mysteries and I correctly identified the perpetrator very early.
They were completely understandable, but in no way surprising.In spite of those negative comments, I wouldn't be averse to reading another of this series.
I have so many titles I'd like to read, however, that these may not make a ready-to-read list any time soon.
Commissario Guido Brunetti makes his debut in this wonderful mystery set in Venice.
World-renowned Maestro Helmut Wellauer is taken suddenly ill after the second act of La Traviata – or so management would have the audience believe.
But it’s clear to the doctor who volunteers her assistance that the Maestro is beyond help.
It quickly becomes clear to Brunetti that there are several possible suspects, and that the victim, while a musical genius, had a very dark history.
I was quickly caught up in the plot, and was kept guessing to the end.
I also enjoyed the depth of character, and especially the relationship between Brunetti and his lovely wife Paola.
Donna Leon is one of my favourite mystery writers.
I love the characters, Commissario Brunetti and his family.
Signorina Elletra, the Vice Questore's secretary is my favourite character, a strong, independent woman who is able to infiltrate the corners of bureaucracy to get vital information for Brunetti.
The setting of Venice and Italy is interesting; you feel like you are walking along the canals of the city.
The decay, decadence, corruption is highlighted, but at the same time, the honour and integrity of Brunetti and his Sergeants.
I take great comfort in sitting down with one of Donna Leon's Brunetti stories; they are a great read.
Also as I saw the first Montalbano in the new TV series this week (series 4) and it reminded me of how well the Italians, Camilleri of course, can do crime - especially the place of a restaurant sit-down lunch in the midst of even the most tricky of investigations.
With Brunetti it seems Leon has created a similarly legendary character, though after just one novel its difficult to say.
The crime here is the murder of the conductor of an orchestra playing opera in Venice.
Opera plays.
The ending is good, but there was a part late in the novel before that which I thought waffled a little.
Commissario Guido Brunetti of the Venice police is called in to investigate.
It's a pleasure to join Brunetti as he picks his way through the investigation, and the somewhat surprising conclusion.
One of the things I really liked about this book is that the reader is involved in Brunetti’s thought processes as he works the investigation.
This is the first mystery in a hugely popular series by Donna Leon that currently has 24 books .
I highly recommend this book to anyone who loves a good murder mystery/police procedural.
3.5 starsIf you are a Venice-lover, then this is your perfect mystery novel.
It does a remarkable job describing--in very great detail--the city of Venice.
The descriptions were mostly centered on geography and weather.I'm used to Louise Penny's mysteries, which are layered and soulful.
This book felt a bit flat to me, and I figured out the "mystery" almost from the very beginning.
Much like Penny's Gamache, this is a character I want to explore in more depth.
He was the spark in this story, IMO.I will try the next book in this series since it comes so highly rated by many fellow readers.
Commissario Guido Brunetti seemed to have lots of interests and looked like he would meet the interesting police officer criteria.
I suspect the pace was quite realistic and comparable to a real life police officer’s investigation, particularly in a city such as Venice.
I suspect that Brunetti’s personableness and conversational style will turn out to be one of his investigative strengths – being able to connect with witnesses and murderers and getting them to open up and talk and with him.All in all a good start to what I hope will be a terrific police procedural series.
I have not only another long and complex detective series to devour, but a new destination!The city of Venice is a lead character in these books.
Oh, sure, the Grand Canal is here, as is St Marks and all the rest, but the city is shown as a place where people live, where people love, where people commit murder and all manner of crimes.Brunetti makes his appearance in this book, as does his wife and children and the even more childish colleagues of the Venice Police.
And out of a tangle of motives, and days where progress is measured in bottles of wine, Brunetti finds the truth, and with it a new dilemma.
This is a so-so murder mystery.
It was loaned to me by someone with whom I work because the detective in this series is located in Venice.
Then, both my kid's school principal and my mother recommended I read it for the same reason.
Honestly, there are apparently another 20 books in the series and I can't for the life of me figure out why anyone would read them.
This book, while completely readable, is formulaic, predictable and totally acceptable if you have nothing else, but it certainly isn't something special.
I'm gearing up for my first trip to Venice and this book definitely got me in the mood.
I enjoyed the descriptions of the city, the differences in how an Italian investigation is run as opposed to the usual American mysteries.
If you are looking for a real potboiler, this isn't it.
The book seemed more about the people and the places than solving the murder - until the end when suddenly the information all comes together into a resolution.
This was a great way to start learning about the city - I might have to bring another Brunetti with me on the trip.
I enjoyed this mystery. (One thing I appreciated about it was its length. 270 pages is about right IMHO. Too often today authors write by the pound with little to justify the length.) It was well written and the characters well developed. I can see Commissario Brunetti in my future reading.
