https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/82783.Feeling_Sorry_for_Celia
Like the other Jaclyn Moriarty book I read recently (Finding Cassie Crazy), this is written in epistolary format and includes letters, the backs of postcards, and random notes.
Please ring me at work if you are dead."Because I read one other Ashbury High book before this one, I can’t help but compare and I enjoyed Finding Cassie Crazy more.
I see how Celia’s home situation contributed to her wanderlust but it doesn’t mean that I think she’s a good friend to Liz. The developing friendship between Liz and Christina was lovely, as they both supported each other from the get-go and actually cared what was going on in the other’s life.
Nor do you have to jump through hoops or swim through the rings of Fishpond hell to get it!This book is a series of letters to and from Elizabeth Clarry.
Through the letters between Elizabeth and Christina, Elizabeth and her mum (THE HILARIOUS ALL CAPS OVER-EXCLAMATION POINTER!!!!), and various unsolicited letters, we get a look into the lives of our characters.
I totally related to how Elizabeth and Christina's friendship began and grew, how you can feel like you know someone without being able to recognize them on the street.
Written in letter form, Feeling Sorry for Celia by Aussie author Jaclyn Moriarty is so completely different it’s delightful.
With Elizabeth’s English teacher getting the students to write to a Complete and Utter Stranger, Elizabeth becomes friendly with Christine.
With Celia, Elizabeth’s best friend missing, eventually turning up at a circus, the postcards to Elizabeth (who she calls Lizzy) get progressively more worrying.
He’s completely wacky and hasn’t got a clue how to talk to his only daughter.Elizabeth’s mother puts huge notes on the fridge for Elizabeth, never seeming to be there for her…Feeling Sorry for Celia is my first read of Jaclyn Moriarty’s and it’s also her debut.
This is such a lovely read!
I know the other sister (Liane) is the one whose books are being made into movies but I think Jaclyn's books are fantastic too.Feeling Sorry for Celia is quirky and clever.
As the reader we do feel sorry for Celia but the main character is Elizabeth and she is remarkable.
The book is written in letter form - letters from Elizabeth to her friends, postcards from her friends, notes from her mother on the fridge, imaginary letters from imaginary critics, all sorts of different correspondence.
It is a great way to read and very hard to stop!
I know this about you because you're reading this review of the book, which is supposed to tell you whether or not you should read it.
If you think about it, this makes book reviewers pretty arrogant people.
But in this case, maybe you should care about what people say about this book.
If you're bored while waiting for the library to get the book for you, you can think about things that are purple.
You're still reading the strangely written review of the book from a complete stranger, which I've already told you, is pretty much useless.
Wish you'd read this book!
Some of the characters , particularly Celia and Saxon's, didn't really come across as either likable or realistic; I didn't feel them.
Damn, Christina's gonna kill me.Love, Me__________________________________________Dear reader,It has come to our attention that you are extremely bad at following the above advice and are still reading this review.Look, we're not going to threaten you, not really, but observe yourself.
The disconcerting feeling of being left alone in the land of laughs(which is another book, btw)?
When you feel, screw these characters, I'm going to sleep?Do you think it's all going to vanish by continuing on with your day?
I was initially wary of this book in much the same way I was wary of  Guitar Highway Rose . Even though I LOVED GHR, it still wasn't the sort of book I normally read and I thought maybe its beauty was just a fluke. I was convinced that a novel made completely up of exchanged letters, messages hastily stuck in fridge doors and notes passed around was going to be too lightweight… but this novel changed my mind when halfway through, it took my heart and cracked it in half.Feeling Sorry for Celia is
I was convinced that a novel made completely up of exchanged letters, messages hastily stuck in fridge doors and notes passed around was going to be too lightweight… but this novel changed my mind when halfway through, it took my heart and cracked it in half.Feeling Sorry for Celia is about Elizabeth and her revelations of friendship with the aforementioned Celia to her new penpal Christina when her English class is forced to write letters in order to save this dying art form.
With a long-lost father come to stay in Sydney, a neglectful mother who communicates through notes, and a missing best friend, Elizabeth's year is about to become far more complicated than she anticipated.
Additionally, the many tales of Elizabeth's life are told through her letters to Christina, who gradually becomes a confidant and helps Elizabeth to realize that friends, like other things, change as you grow older.
I like seeing that Elizabeth's mother pursues her passions, but also loves her daughter very, very much.
All in all, Feeling Sorry for Celia is one of the best contemporaries out there and an unexpectedly honest portrayal of growing up, facing the world, and friendship.
"Feeling Sorry for Celia" is Moriarty's debut novel and the second book I've read by this author.
Looking back, I probably should have read this book first, before "The Year of Secret Assignments," because they both are set in the same "world," have common characters, and reading "Feeling Sorry for Celia" first would have probably helped me to understand events in the second novel better.
My opinion about this book is pretty much the same as about "The Year of Secret Assignment," probably because they are very similar.
I still don't get the lighter, funnier parts of the book.
ELIZABETH, I WAS DELIGHTED BY YOUR STORY, WITH ALL THE LETTERS AND FAX MESSAGES, IMAGINARY NOTICES BY YOUR SUBCONSCIOUS AND ESPECIALLY YOUR MOM'S POST-IT NOTES.
Books that fit this genre, usually make me scratch my head half-a-year later, trying to remember the story-line no matter how delightful I thought them after reading the last line.
Once in a while I get to read a YA-contemporary that endures the time-test, like books by Melina Marchetta, Vikki Wakefield, Courtney Summers, Kirsty Eagar and now Jaclyn Moriarty, who won me over with her Colours of Madeleine books.Seriously, who could have thought that a story written entirely like an exchange of correspondence could be such fun?
Feeling Sorry For Celia was one of those books which took me a while to get into as its not written in your typical format, but in the form of letters, notes and postcards between characters.
What I enjoyed most about this book was reading the letters from Elizabeth’s mum and the anonymous stranger, as they were extremely funny;I have now created a web for myself which I see noWay to untangle.
IT’S A NOTE FROM YOUR MOTHER!!!I also enjoyed the witty, quirky characters, the unexpected surprises and the friendship Elizabeth was able to form with Christina through the letters they sent to each other.
This is a new favorite.
Her high school starts a pen pal system with a nearby school and Elizabeth develops a new friendship with her pen pal, Christina.Feeling Sorry for Celia is very much a slice-of-life kind of novel, written entirely in epistolary form.
It was a very quick read because of the epistolary format and it’s impossible not to love Elizabeth, her mother and Elizabeth’s secret admirer who is sorrybutnotsorry about remaining anonymous.Kind regards,The Society of This Review is Really Short and Unstructured but it’s Currently Really Hot in Sydney and I Have Lost the Ability to Think and Write but You Should Read This Book or Any Book by Jaclyn Moriarty.
Beginning somewhat hesitantly, Elizabeth and Christina slowly forge an unusual friendship solely based on the written word yet one that expands to help each other through a multitude of joys and heartaches.Frequently, their letters are interrupted by missives to Elizabeth from The Association of Teenagers, The Best Friends Club, THE COLD HARD TRUTH ASSOCIATION, and The Society of High School Runners Who Aren't Very Good at Long-Distance Running but Would Be if They Just Trained.
If ever there were a case of "don't judge a book by its cover" this is it.I love this author.
This one focuses on Elizabeth Clarry (also a character in The Murder of Bindy MacKenzie) and is told through notes and letters, including imaginary letters from various "associations" (such as The Association of Teenagers) that represent Elizabeth's many anxieties.This book reminded me of the pen pals I made growing up.
The letters between Elizabeth and Christina are often laugh-out-loud funny, but they also represent so much of what is beautiful in a budding friendship.Jaclyn Moriarty writes creatively and humorously about the pain and joy of growing up.
I've been saving Moriarty's contemporary novels because I knew I'd like them (my mind works in strange ways) and today I needed a sure bet, so I grabbed this one from the bookcase. I wasn't disappointed. This has a great voice and some good things to say about friendship. I'm a sucker for epistolary writing, so that was right up my alley, although I wasn't as big on the imaginary letters from the various made-up societies, and that's where that one star was lost. Regardless, a fun and easy read.
I did not expect to love this novel as much as I did.
I loved the characters and the epistolary style.
I really loved Elizabeth and her relationship with Christina.
The story follows Elizabeth, but not in the usual way.
They showed Elizabeth at her most vulnerable and expressed the character change without bogging the reader down in endless self-analysis.
Yet all these issues are handled with a funny, wry style that kept the story bitter-sweet instead of just plain depressing.
I love all the quirky characters - hippie moms and anonymous admirers, awkward fathers and boy-obsessed cousins.
Her one and only friend is Celia Buckley, who has a bad habit of running away for weeks at a time.In the midst of Celia’s latest escapade, Elizabeth’s English teacher sets up a pen-pal project with the public school down the road.
The last thing Elizabeth wants to do is to be forced to communicate with a total stranger, but she soon discovers that writing to her pen-pal, Christina, is actually a nice retreat from her increasingly hectic life.
Luckily she’s got Christina, her mom, and an anonymous admirer to make the way easier for her!It’s impossible to sum up this amazing book in a few sentences.
I have no idea where I got the rec for this book, but I have such mad love for it.
It's completely epistolary - Elizabeth is mainly writing notes to her mother via the fridge and letters to a penpal at a neighborhood school, and receiving letters from the same and also from such (mental) organizations as "The Association of Teenagers" (who firmly believe she has no right to call herself a teen and must hide away until school is done), "The Secret and Mysterious Association of all that is Secret and Mysterious" (when she starts getting anonymous notes), etc.
Anyway, I still loved it.
I ramble more about this book and The Year of Secret Assignments here but this is the basic gist of it...Jo’s Official Rating.If this book was a person, I would send them a letter with an orange Smartie taped to the bottom of them. Because they taste the bestest.
Difficult... the first third was a drag.. I was bored most of the time and also very confused about these strange Society and Association letters.. (obviously there here to get us readers more information about Elizabeth's day but it's strange and lazy nonetheless). Luckily it got better with time, enjoyable and also a bit exciting. All in all an okay read but nothing more. I won't continue with the Ashbury/Brookfield pen pal series that's for sure.
"Maybe a rocking motion makes you think deep and philosophical thoughts? I wonder if that means babies are always lying in their cradles being rocked and working out the meaning of life? They probably are you know, and it's completely wasted because they can't talk."
Reread this, and not sure if it was the time or not, but I wasn't as totally taken with it this time, though it is still funny and is a lot less slight than it appears.
Onvan : Feeling Sorry for Celia (Ashbury/Brookfield, #1) - Nevisande : Jaclyn Moriarty - ISBN : 312287364 - ISBN13 : 9780312287368 - Dar 288 Safhe - Saal e Chap : 2000
One of my favourites growing up, I seriously need to re-read them all!
What makes it great is that letters force the author to only stick to essential details and not random facts, which basically means the entire book is perfectly written because all of the nonsense, run on sentences have been filtered out.
They share stories about their lives, like Elizabeth's best friend Celia who has a habit of running away, and Christina's cousin Maddie who does the same.
And I liked the little mental notes Elizabeth wrote to herself while thinking, like "association of teenagers" "association of best friends." It was a humorous but cute book.
Dear Feeling Sorry for Celia,I hope this letter finds you well.
You see, all my other blogger friends had already read you and they loved you with your charming main character and witty letters.
Also, you really are rather funny.Reading you, I felt a strong connection with Elizabeth.
It was lovely to watch her friendship with Christina develop through their letters.
When I moved away to uni, one of my best friends and I continued to write to each other in the same way Elizabeth and Christina do, talking about what we were doing, our subjects, the books we were reading etc.
I liked the easygoing nature of the book - I didn't feel the need to sit there on the edge of my seat, gaping at the pages.
It was almost like I was just sitting down and reading a pile of letters from a stranger, and I could just pick up where I left from at any time.That's not to say the book wasn't at all exciting, because it certainly was.
The relationship between Elizabeth and pretty much everyone she comes into contact with, was so easy to relate back to myself.
Think about that next time you go anywhere.Love, your beloved Chihuahua SeamusFeeling sorry for Celia was a lovely book about the complications of relationships.
Elizabeth Clarry's teacher has assigned them to write to kids from another school to rediscover the joys of letters in envelopes.This book was in it's own way hearkening back to a time where everyone wasn't texting while talking to someone else.
and be perfect.This book got that perfect.My mom told us "whatever you want to fix" was for dinner so Elizabeth's mum didn't seem that bad to me.
It’d be hard to get into otherwise, and it would be a shame to miss.Elizabeth endures her English teacher’s enthusiasm for the Joy of the Envelope and writes to a Complete and Utter Stranger at a neighboring school.
The Complete and Utter Stranger, Christina, turns out to share and enjoy Liz’s wonky outlook and have issues of her own to write about.
Not because it was incredibly tense (though life is crazy for Liz and Christina, with both serious issues and adolescent drama, so their letters are definitely not all about the weather or random classmates), but because I kept reading just-one-more-letter.
