https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3570231-at-grave-s-end
5 Avenging Stars*Spoilers below* "Catherine Kathleen Crawfield, will you marry me?"-BonesFirst read 2/23/2014 Reread 11/22/2015At Grave's End, The 3rd book in the Night Huntress Series, was action packed and full of bombshells. Kidnap, torture, backstabbers, near death, and enemies of old trying to kill you and everyone you love. Just another day in the lives of Bones and Cat! I don't think I can't write a review on this book without spoilers, because so many major things happen in it, if I don'
Now, do you want me to call you Mum straightaway, or wait until after the wedding?"-Bones and Justina(on phone)My Cat:
They find out it's Mencheres wife Petra who tried to kill Bones and Cat, and she starts a war with them.
When Cat was being tortured, damn it was rough, and when everyone thought Bones was dead.
I can say that I 100% loved when Cat stabbed Tate in the heart (as a warning she didn't twist the blade and kill him ) , when she thought Bones was dead and Tate tried to touch her.
Love these books!
3  Stars I enjoyed this book for the most part; however, I missed the strong connection and romance between Cat and Bones that was prevalent in the first two books. That's not to say there wasn't romance, because there was, it was just watered down considerably in this story. Plus, I'm beyond tire of Tate. Why Cat allows him to continually disrespect Bones is beyond me. I lost a lot of respect for her character in this book because of that. At Graves End is a good addition to this series. Even t
3 ½ Stars I enjoyed this book for the most part; however, I missed the strong connection and romance between Cat and Bones that was prevalent in the first two books.
That's not to say there wasn't romance, because there was, it was just watered down considerably in this story.
Plus, I'm beyond tire of Tate.
Why Cat allows him to continually disrespect Bones is beyond me.
I lost a lot of respect for her character in this book because of that.
Even though it leaned heavily toward the urban fantasy genre rather than the paranormal romance genre, I still enjoyed reading/listening to it.
What a ride!☆☆☆☆☆One marriage proposal☆☆☆☆☆“Catherine Kathleen Crawfield, will you marry me?”☆☆☆☆☆Two powerful enemies☆☆☆☆☆1. Patra (daughter of the one and only Cleopatra)2. Max (Hello daddy dearest)☆☆☆☆☆More power☆☆☆☆☆“War is coming, I’ve seen it. With your new strength and our combined lines, we’ll have a better chance to win.”☆☆☆☆☆More of Bone’s “lovely” ex-flings☆☆☆☆☆“She has no interest in you, Cat. Killing you was just a means to get to Bones.”☆☆☆☆☆Many emotional goodbyes☆☆☆☆☆1. “Fix him,
With your new strength and our combined lines, we’ll have a better chance to win.”☆☆☆☆☆More of Bone’s “lovely” ex-flings☆☆☆☆☆“She has no interest in you, Cat. Killing you was just a means to get to Bones.”☆☆☆☆☆Many emotional goodbyes☆☆☆☆☆1.
Oh, blimey, I come from a long line of whores, in fact...called to give you the good news.
Now, do you want me to call you Mum straightaway, or wait until after the wedding?"Lesson 1: Difficult Mothers-in-Law and How to Cope with Them“Well.
After they were shagging.”Lesson 2: Difficult Mothers-in-Law and How to Humiliate Them.“Hallo, Justina.
It appears we’re still stuck with each other.”Lesson 3: Difficult Mothers-in-Law and How to Inflame Them.hahahaha
Cat still has to deal with the unrequited love of one of her men--I swear I don't know how much more of that Bones is going to be able to take.
We're going to drink from each other, in every possible way."--this is sexier than it sounds, since we know how much Bones likes his whiskey, and Cat loves her gin), and Bones and Cat each have to face the possibility of life without the other.
It completely lacks in buttsecks. So other than that, there's not much to say other than Bones' overprotectiveness is getting on my nerves.She's a big girl. Just because someone looks at her wrong, doesn't mean they need to be introduced to the business end of Mr Sharp and Pointy.Also, they're totally an evil empire and they just don't know it. They've killed more people than most natural disasters can even manage. All in the name of buttsecks... err, love.
THOROUGHLY AWESOME!At Grave's End is the third installment in Night Huntress series and I found it was far better than the two previous ones.
I loved this vampire!Cat is still Cat. She seems more emotionally mature though.
What a powerful vampire he is!
I loved him in his book, Eternal Kiss of Darkness (I already read Night Huntress World series before discovering I should read this first.), and I loved him even more in this one!The ending was great, literally beyond my imagination.
Loved it!By the way, this series gets better and better with every book.
5+ stars – Vampire Romance/Urban FantasyAnother WOW of a read in the Cat and Bones saga!
Way too much happened in this book for me to try and recount everything and to encapsulate it all logically or with enough fervor to do it adequate justice, but here’s a rundown of what I liked about At Grave’s End and why I love this series.Cat and Bones are back together and their love is stronger than ever, having been recently married the good old fashioned vampire way, via a sacred blood bond that ties them together until death.
This was another fun instalment in the Night Huntress series.Cat and Bones are back to their ass-kicking best as they fight off an assassination attempt from her evil father and then get caught up in a full blown vampire war as it becomes apparent that a 2000 year old master vampire from Bones and Mencheres past supported the assassination attempt.
We also had plenty more of the romance and humor that was such a big part of the first few books.
The guy really has to let his feelings for Cat go.
With Cat embracing her vampire side more and more all the time it should be interesting to see where the next book takes her.
This time for Dracula!
Really, these books should have a warning on their cover: WARNING!  Once you start, you can't get enough. They are like a drug; you get high on Bones. Do I need to say more?
Eventually I gave up trying to figure why things were happening -- I just wanted to close the book with a sense of completion.
Cat & Bones are well on their way to being The Awesomest People Ever.
Now Bones has collected MORE power -- an upgrade in every possible sense, including a really dreadful pulled-from-the-ass excuse for dying enough to fool the villain, yet Not Dying & walking through the front door before Cat went batshit insane without his steadying influence.
While Bones' perfection is somewhat tempered by his personality, Cat isn't so fortunate.
(Speaking of which...the supposed Bones/Cat/Tate love triangle is one of the weakest I've ever read.
I'd gone on and on about my love for the characters (especially Bones) and the fun, witty dialogue; but I still acknowledged that there was something lacking in Frost's plots that kept me from awarding the full 5 stars that I wanted to.This book changed that.
I won't say anything more.One of the greatest developments in this book that I never saw coming was that of Cat's mother.
Frost has turned an annoying throwaway character into one of the most hilarious in the book, giving her wonderfully witty sarcasm and some of the best scenes (like the whole thing at Rodney's house - will not spoil it).
⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱*Bones is the life of the series*⋰⋱⋰⋱⋰⋱  Second re-read: 06.11.2018 The third book in the series starts almost right after book two. Half-vampire Catherine ‘Cat’ ‘Cathy’ ‘Kitten’ ‘Commander’ ‘The Red Reaper’ Kathleen Crawfield (27) and her vampire bounty hunter/hit man Crispin Phillip Arthur Russell III (Crispin was his human name) ‘Bones’ (247), are both now working for the government. Well, Bones does it for Cat. Both are also now married by vampire law. Someone is out to get Bones by k
(view spoiler)[Gets turned into a vampire by choice by Bones.
Dave gets killed by a vampire and at end of the book two, Rodney and Bones makes him a ghoul.
(view spoiler)[Juan gets turned into a vampire by choice by Bones.
She had help him when Bones was human, and Bones wanted to return the favor; to become a vampire, she accepted.→ Rattler (view spoiler)[(turns out to be a traitor) (hide spoiler)], Doc, Zero, and Tick Tock, vampires of Bones.
(view spoiler)[Zero and Tick Tock gets killed in the zombie attack at the end of the book.
They acted like she didn't actually do anything wrong because Cat's dad turned out to be a bad guy.
I was really glad when Bones told her he understood why she did it, but it would never happen again.As much as I hate Tate, it's really Cat's fault that the situation has developed like it has.
She plans to quit her job, and I pray that means no more Tate.One more thing that was really well done was Cat's reaction to Bones' disappearance.
I hated Tate for trying to mack on her, but I loved her for her reaction to it.
Some series suffer as they go along, but Frost doesn’t disappoint At Grave’s End with non-stop action and the relationship between Cat and Bones still growing as a war is raging in the shadows.
While the action fast pace kept you reading, this forced romance to take a vacation, which was an overall bummer for me as that’s what really draws me to the Night Huntress series is the romance between Cat and Bones.
I would have liked more between Bones and Cat, but this book felt at times to much of a filler giving the relationship a standstill feeling.
Re-read with the UF group of Buddies Books and Baubles “How could you be nervous about asking me to marry you, Bones? I'd die for you. Why wouldn't I want to live for you as well?” While there was a slight drop off between the first and second book this one rebounds quite nicely and is as good if not better than the first. Cat and Bones are back with great banter, dark humor and fun shenanigans again with an even more deadly adversary. I will say that the author gave me a few serious heart palpi
Cat and Bones are back with great banter, dark humor and fun shenanigans again with an even more deadly adversary.
One of the things I like the most about the Dark Huntress series is there isn’t a lot of down time.
Always a lot of movement to the story and Bones always comes through with some sort of surprise.
I have a great time reading how Bones still antagonizes Cat’s mom.
Those to me are some of the funniest scenes.Great story with a lot of action!
Never a dull moment.
Goodreads is being weird right now, so I'll make it short.After Chapter 32 of the last book, this one could not possibly have lived up to it, but it was still fun.
Also, according to Cat's descriptions, Bones looks like this:And, the other guy in love with her, Tate, looks like this:Now, I'm not trying to be superficial here, I just am.
And to prove it's not only about his looks, Tate also has never uttered the words "Old Chap", so there is more motivation.I mean, come on!!
"Old Chap"?
Is Bones supposed to be a romantic lead or an uptight butler from the 19th century?This guy can pull it off, but Bones can't.
actual rating; 4.25 stars I love Cat and Bones, but I could easily stop reading this book and not think about it. It's the only reason I'm not giving it 5 stars.
Their passion when they come together has been well explored in the past two books (see chapter 32 in the second book), but it seemed like that all got cut - except for the one measly scene mentioned above - for the constant fighting going on.- I do like Cat's character, but there were times in this entry that I wanted to smack her upside the head for being TSTL.
"Action, action, character-building scene, action, love scene, action, etc."- In the previous books, I liked Tate.
Jeaniene Frost writes urban fantasy just how I like it: Funny, sexy, action packed, and silly-drama free.
I'm not going to do a whole analyze-y review because I'm just going to circle back inevitably to the idea that "Bones is a sexy god...
Let's just say that whenever I pick up a book in this series I get consistently amazing stuff.
This book is just so quotable.
"Of course not, Ian. It's just normally at this hour, Bones and I are fucking like rabbits, so I get twitchy when I have to wait for him to climb aboard."Jeaniene Frost, you just get me.
As the third book, the Night Huntress series remains irresistibly addictive and my favorite thus far. Jeaniene Frost deepens Cat and Bones’ love story with the introduction of an exciting new character that shines a light at Bones' mysterious past.
I'm sorry but these books are soooooooo GOOD I can't even stop and review them!!!! The weird thing is....this is the second time I've read them and they are STILL THAT GOOD!!!Mother of sweet baby rabbits I f*cking love Bones and Cat!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Loved it as much the second time around!
I was so engaged in the expanding vampire world and in new/improved characters like Vlad, Patra, and Mencheres that I almost forgot Cat was narrating.
I have to say I found vampire politics, this new world of magic, and the war plot more interesting than Cat and Bones in At Grave's End. Yes, of course I love the Cat/Bones ship, but it didn't feel as relevant in this book as it has in the previous two.
5 Awesome Stars.
And they are right, in a war against someone they don’t know and against powers that plot against them, their love and their “lives”, they are facing probably their biggest war so far.
But they fight the most to keep their love intact and well… hot.
This was probably my favorite so far.
(I know, it’s only the third.) I loved how their relationship progress and the twists of the story.
It was pretty unexpected and awesome.
Rating:  5 Stars.Storyline:  Unexpected, full of surprises and great.
HEA: 	(view spoiler)[Yes.
(hide spoiler)]["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
I for one am starting to get tired of paying full price ($8.00 a pop mind you) for books half the size, large font, and with an embarrassing amount of copying and pasting...I guess the only way we're going to get our great reads back are to quit buying these so-called "next installments" and go to the library or our local discount bookstores.
So for now I've found some great new authors that are still having to work for their paychecks and those are the books I'm going to be paying full price for for now on.
He kind of reminds me of Butch from BDB in Dark Lover.*Tate is interested in a girl who obviously isn’t meant for him.
Butch has Beth’s back and becomes a vampire after.*Tate likes to call Cat “Baby”.
Butch just loooves to talk and calls Beth “Baby” too.And like Butch, I love Tate despite his attempts to woo Cat. I just can’t seem to hate him for some reason.
But her writing style is completely separate from my love for her characters and world building.
I love all the characters and sort of wish I could be Cat so I can have my Bones!
Well the fun does NOT stop in this 3rd Installment of the Night Huntress series. The ride takes you on a roller coaster of ups and downs and happies and sads... It was a fun time and a TON of stuff happens in this book! So much! So pay attention.My main complaint... As a love of Egyptology, I was sad that Patra/Anubis were not celebrated, and made out to be evil :( Otherwise I can't wait for more.
4.5 stars. Just as good as the first two! I love the relationship between Cat’s mum Justine and Bones too. Tate needs to get over it and move on because that storyline is feeling a bit old now. Cat and Bones are still great together.
what's with these covers? are they supposed to be sexy? this one gives me black widow vibes, as in a freaky spider. well done on the creepy part though.
