https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/7070323-thoughts-on-peace-in-an-air-raid
This slim collection (roughly 100 pages) of ten essays by Virgina Woolf, published as part of the "Penguin Great Ideas" series may be the best book I've read in the past ten years.
#7 is a hilarious takedown of those who would write or lecture about literature.But it's the final essay in this book that raises the whole collection to my top 5 books of all time list (there's going to be some ugly rearranging that will have to take place on my "top 20" shelf, and a difficult choice lies ahead)."How Should One Read a Book?" is where my self-discipline breaks down.
They have loved reading."By the time the title essay of this collection was published, Virgina Woolf had already filled her pockets with stones and walked into the river Ouse.
One she attended in particular whose speed resembled:"...the painful progress of a three-legged fly that has survived the winter.
How many flies on an average survive the English winter, and what would be the thoughts of such an insect on waking to find itself being lectured on the French Revolution?
The origin of the French Revolution was being sought for – also the thoughts of flies.
– the lecture was over.." This book of essays is filled with wonderful passages such as these which I'm sure Woolf would be gratified to know that I enjoyed far more than any lecture I've ever attended.
1. Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid.2. Street Haunting.3. Oxford Street Tide.4. Craftsmanship.5. The Art of Biography.6. How it Strikes a Contemporary.7. Why?8. The Patron and the Crocus.9. Modern Fiction.10. How Should One Read a Book?
Beautiful, thought provoking and poetic. Am very tempted to read it again soon.
I really enjoyed some of these essays, the first and last in particular but I don’t think I have this book the time it deserves to absorb it fully.
Street Haunting, among the others in the book was one of the most beautiful essays I read by Woolf.
Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid by Virginia Woolf is a collection of ten short essays:1) Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid,2) Street Haunting,3) Oxford Street Tide,4) Craftsmanship,5) The Art of Biography,6) How It Strikes a Contemporary,7) Why?,8) The Patron and the Crocus,9) Modern Fiction,10) How Should One Read a Book?Most of the essays (4-10) dealt with Literature and Writing and these were great - Woolf's intelligence, wit and humour fascinated me in every one of them.
I grew up knowing about Woolf through my mother, who deeply loves her, but I never really read much Woolf, to be honest. While she is not really my "style" of writer, she is a beautiful essayist with both sharp humor and critical thinking skills and an amazing breadth. This is especially true in the first and most famous piece, but this little volume is so short and well compiled that all of the selections are worth the time. This is an excellent little foray into Woolf for those wanting to make the leap.
Don't be mislead by the title, this is a collection of essays. Only the first one is called "Thoughts on Peace in an Air Raid", and it is by far the greatest in the series. Woolf's thoughts are as revolutionary as they are engaging, and it is wonderful to get an impression of her personal beliefs and ideas, but the essays do get less organised and interesting the closer you get to the end.
I am not a Virginia Woolf fan, but I was intrigued by this collection of essays and thought I'd give her another try. I loved the first few essays, but man, can this girl ramble. I do like her essays more than her novels, but I'm still not a fan of her.
Ok I liked the title essay but found the others a slog
