https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/38330854-the-perfect-nanny
Where do these stories come from? They emanate from Louise, in a continual flood, without her even thinking about it, without her making the slightest effort of memory or imagination. But in what black lake, in what deep forest has she found these cruel tales where the heroes die at the end, after first saving the world? I saw The Perfect Nanny on the Millions Most Anticipated list. It's a short book, and my library had it available to read immediately, so I thought: why not? I had very few exp
Louise walks into the lives of Myriam and her husband, Paul, and completely exceeds their expectations of what a nanny should be.
Strange things start happening and Myriam begins to wonder if there is a darker side to this perfect nanny.
It is the kind of scream heard during war, in the trenches, in other worlds, on other continents.
I haven't read the original in french, but the translation seems fantastic.I know many readers will be left feeling dissatisfied by the ending and how it feels like we haven't been given enough reasons to justify the horrors of the book, but I actually found this even more haunting.
This is one of this intensely interior novels that are claustrophobic and incredibly engaging and disturbing.
I was very aware that I was reading a translation and I have no doubt that in French, this novel is a show stopper.
The translation is good but clunky at times.
I suppose that is the nature of most translation.
As a portrait of a nanny who ends up murdering her charges (not a spoiler), this novel does a good job of creating ambiguity and never really showing a clear cut why of the crime.
Instead, you read the entire novel knowing something terrible is coming.
This is a great novel.
This unusual book got under my skin in the quietest, creepiest way possible and it deserves nothing less than 5 stars.
The story opens with a brief graphic scene of violence depicting the death of two young children at the hands of their nanny.
An unsettling and disturbing framework is set and the reader now views the rest of the story from the beginning, all the while knowing how this is going to end.
I love this style of writing with one omniscient narrator telling the story in a simple, almost hypnotic manner.
This is for readers that loved Unraveling Oliver or We Need to Talk About Kevin.
4 slower-building, but gripping, stars to The Perfect Nanny! ⭐ ⭐ ⭐ ⭐The Perfect Nanny opened with the what. There was a horrific scene to behold in this family’s home. For the entire book, I was on the edge of my seat wondering the why with tons of ambiguity and build-up at a slower-moving pace. Louise seems to be epitome of the perfect nanny, but people aren’t always who and what they appear to be. The side messages on class, privilege, and child rearing in France were interesting. This had all
4 slower-building, but gripping, stars to The Perfect Nanny!
⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️ ⭐️The Perfect Nanny opened with the what.
Louise seems to be epitome of the perfect nanny, but people aren’t always who and what they appear to be.
This had all the makings of a five star read.
The Perfect Nanny is a short and quick read.
Overall, I found it gripping and engaging and well-worthy of four stars.
Please visit Norma and Brenda’s blog for the Traveling Sisters’ review: http://twogirlslostinacouleereading.w...Thank you to Leila Slimani, Penguin Books, and Edelweiss for the complimentary copy.
Stéphanie remembers those little containers arrayed on the shelf of the fridge with the children's names written on them. One night she got up and opened the bag belonging to Jules, a red-faced baby whose sharp nails had scratched her cheek. She drank it all without pausing. She never forgot the taste of rotting melon, that sour taste which stayed in her for months for days afterward.  Holy shit, that's gross.Holy shit, this book is creepy as fuck.And holy shit look at that, another unpopular
You know, I really just wish the author made this more comprehensible, easier to understand, but it was honestly a whole mess.This book is more of a character-driven book than a plot-moving one and I wouldn't even say it's thrilling or suspenseful since we already know what the fuck happened anyways and all we want to know is the reason for it, but instead we end up reading about the love life Louise had, how she doesn't know if her daughter is alive or dead, how she worked at a Children's Day Care, and how she ended up becoming the perfect nanny for Adam and Mila.
You know, the uneasy ambiguity, how they’re an intimate part of your family but they’re an employee, how they’re poor (mostly black, mostly immigrant) and they live in the middle of wealth during working hours, returning each day to the other side of the tracks; how they’re everything and they have your total trust (they look after your children more than you do) and nothing (they can be got rid of just like that).In an interview with The Guardian Ms Slimani explains that after she wrote 100 pages of stuff about the life of a nanny she was bored, bored, bored.
It was inspired by the true case of the nanny who killed two children in NYC in 2012, and some aspects of the crime are eerily similar.
Not knowing the why makes it all the more horrific.How can the perfect nanny, who is the envy of all your friends, suddenly snap?
There's an inequality in the relationship, yet there's also an intimacy with this person knowing the intimate details of your life and your children's.
Just like in the real life case this is based upon, much is not known*this was a traveling sister read, which inspired a great discussion.
DNF @35% I tried my best to get into this novel, but couldn’t.The novel opens with a beautiful written crime scene, it’s shocking but written well. Then it started downhill for me.. I couldn’t feel anything for Myriam, Paul, Louise, Pascale, or Milla or Adam It felt dry, perhaps due to it being a translated work that could maybe is brilliant in French , but didn’t read well in English.
Myriam and Paul are thrilled that they have found the “perfect” nanny to take care of their kids, allowing them to immerse themselves into their careers without worry…as long as Louise is there, everything will be fine – that is the mantra that Paul and Myriam live by as they become increasingly dependent on Louise day-to-day….until one day when they realize everything ISN’T fine after all….This was a slow-burn, character-driven story that doesn’t really follow the traditional mystery/suspense/thriller format in that we already find out “what happened” and “who did it” within the first few pages, so the big question explored throughout the rest of the narrative was to understand the “why” and “how” – why did the nanny do what she did and how did things get to this point?
I wondered if this was going to be like the movie “The Hand That Rocks Cradle” ...but ‘that’ movie wouldn’t win a French prestigious award.
I’m still not sure why this book ‘did’ win such a high standing award - but the writing ‘is’ good.
As readers, we definitely try to understand why “The Perfect Nanny”, Louise murdered the children?
Yes - there are disturbing signs of ‘things’ not right..but do we really know ‘why’ this devastating crime happened?There was one line in this book that Louise saysthat kinda represents this entire book to me....and it’s very sad:“You shouldn’t try to understand everything.
Children are just like adults.
You will learn how the story ends on the first page of the novel.
And my stomach was in knots as I read it.Told in third person from different view points, we learn how the unspeakable ending unfolded.
She begins to do very strange things that upset Myriam and Paul, but they have grown to depend on her help.
As the story progresses, you begin to see what the parents do not and the end may leave you with more questions than answers.I'll be interested in reading more from this author as I enjoyed her writing style.
When does the madness start and what is the point that Louise goes over the edge.When Myriam decides to return to work she realises that she needs a nanny.
All that Myriam and her husband needs to do is to find someone they can trust to look after their children.
Not only does Louise look after the children she also cooks the meals and cleans the house.
When Louise is told she only has to look after the children Louise always insists that it's no trouble.
The very first time I have read/listened to a book by this author and I am looking forward to other books in the future.
Soon she found herself resenting her children and her husband and needed more from her life.
With this decision, came the choice to hire a nanny to take care of the children.
It only took a few seconds." really popped and made me think we were going into a novel where we find out how this tragedy occurred.
A journey into the life of a nanny who is often overlooked, underappreciated and with little self esteem.
We get inside her head, her past with her own family, her past nanny history, and a little bit of explaining of why she acts the way that she does.
من أكثر المناطر استفزازًا لي هي رؤية عائلة تجلس في مطعم وتلتهم ما لذّ وطاب لها من مأكولات، بينما تقف عاملتهم المنزلية خلف واجهة المطعم الزجاجية وحيدة، وربما جائعة، بانتظار أن ينتهوا من ابتلاع الأطباق التي أمامهم.ومن أكثر الأخبار استفزازًا لي هي تلك التي تنقل جرائم العاملات المنزلية دون أن تنقل في المقابل الجرائم التي يرتكبها أصحاب المنازل ضد هؤلاء العاملات المنزليات.أدرك بأن هناك نسبة من العاملات المنزليات ترتكب الجرائم دون أن يكون لمشغليهم سبب مباشر فيها، ولكنني أؤمن بأن الكثير من هذه الجرائم مدفوعة بالرغبة في الانتقام من أرباب عملهم الذين يعاملونهم كعبيد أو كآلات.نعم، أنا أرفض وأستهجن جرائم العاملات المنزليات، ولكنني أرفض وأستهجن بدرجة مساوية معاملة الكثير من مشغّليهم لهم.
After reviewing the latest novel by Leila Slimani titled Adèle back in September, I immediately went on the search for her English debut, The Perfect Nanny.
And Slimani did not disappoint.This story opens up with the scene of a murder of two children at the hands of their nanny, Louise.
What follows is a dark descent into the mind of Louise as she plummets off the cliff of psychosis.Both of Slimani's novels thus far have delved into the darkest of devastations on both the sufferers of mental illness and to those around them in a way I've yet to experience from another author.
We get into depth with the parent role and how hard it can be to juggle to children and remain insane.
We also get to know the children better as well as Louise, the nanny that the parents decide to hide.
Louise is basically the perfect nanny!
However, the very first chapter mentioned above lets us know that Louise isn't as perfect as it might seem, after all.
I liked how this book plays with shifts in roles (I won't go into spoilers).
3.5 Stars → Ugh, from the very beginning, this book was chilling.
A young Parisian couple, Myriam and Paul, hire Louise as a nanny for their two small children.
With a good reference from her previous employer, and being somewhat desperate to find childcare, they quickly welcome Louise into their lives.
Louise seems perfect on the outside, but she has hidden issues, which are slowly reveled as the story progresses.
While reading this book, I felt like I was watching the characters from a distance rather than being a part of the story.
The writing was good...just had a distant feel.
From the opening page we learn that children have been murdered by their nanny and the book then steps back in time to see how this horrific event unfolds.
And impressively all this is achieved in such a short space of time without seeming rushed or incomplete; this is a novel barely over 200 pages long!I really don't want to say any more about the details of the plot as everything is so perfectly paced in this book with each detail and reveal carefully placed in the storyline for the maximum chilling effect.
"In that room she lost all notion of time.
Myriam, the children's mother, returns from her first day back at work as an advocate to find that Louise has totally tidied the cramped apartment, seemingly doubling it in size.
But Leïla Slimani opens her book with the shocking words: "Le bébé est mort." The baby dead, the girl fatally wounded, the apartment bathroom a scene of carnage, the father away on business, the mother in shock.
Chanson douce, her second novel, won her the prestigious Prix Goncourt in 2016; it became an instant best-seller in France and awaits translation here.* Race indeed plays a role in the subtext of class in the book, but it is a measure of the author's subtlety that she treats it only indirectly.
Roman godine u Francuskoj i dobitnik neke nagrade cccImala sam utisak da citam ne bas najbolji deciji sastav. Kao sto rekoh citam i osecam se tupo. o.O
Find all of my reviews at: http://52bookminimum.blogspot.com/3.5 Stars “The baby is dead.” I’m not exactly sure how I ended up with this book. I thought it must have been one of the suggestions from the library for the “Shelf of Suspects” challenge, but I just double-checked and it is not. Whatever way I ended up with it, I have to say that is one doozy of an opening line. I also have to say if you’re expecting a story like this . . . .  As I will freely admit I was, you’re not going to find it
I’m not exactly sure how I ended up with this book.
What follows is a brief, yet thorough, tale of how Louise went from being practically perfect in every way to murdering the children in her care.Obviously if you are looking for chills and thrills and twists and turns, this isn’t going to deliver.
I’m glad I was able to change my expectations and I have to say it has left me questioning how many other books I would have enjoyed if they had been approached in this manner rather than with all of the rigmarole above.
Contrairement au titre qui promet et laisse présager la lecture d’une histoire douce, paisible et poétique, dès la première page, une image terrifiante et sanglante d’un bébé et d’un enfant tués par leur nounou s’offre à nous.
L’histoire est celle de Pascal et Myriam, un couple de jeunes parisiens mariés avec deux enfants, Mia et Adam.
Myriam avait fait des études de droit mais a fini par choisir de devenir femme au foyer et de garder ses enfants.
Pour cela, le couple devait engager une nounou pour garder leurs enfants.
Une histoire ordinaire de couple marié avec des enfants.
C'est délicat de dire que j'ai été peu voir pas convaincue face à un sujet qui ne peut laisser personne indifférent.
Si les deux premières pages sont percutantes, la suite est un enchaînement de descriptions qui se laisse lire mais ne m'a pas permise d'entrer complètement dans cette sordide histoire.
Au contraire, j'ai trouvé le récit plat, sans relief, et cela notamment du fait que les personnages sont peu creusés à mon goût, voire caricaturaux.
Quant à la nounou, alors là, je ne sais que dire, son histoire ne m'a absolument pas touché, je l'ai trouvé (l'histoire), assez grossière et peu crédible.
Basing a psychological thriller around a nanny who murders the children she cares for makes for a terrifyingly effective sensational story, but where “Lullaby” by Leila Slimani really excels is in its sophisticated take on classism, privilege and isolation in modern-day Paris.
Busy professionals Myriam and Paul grow increasingly distanced from the care of their children and the upkeep of their home once they hire Louise.
The tension between the couple’s personal and professional relationship with the hired help is tested over time until the nanny’s position as an intimate familiar within the household becomes untenable.
What goes on in the workings on one's mind that can change them from the image they project into a macabre nightmare?Louise is the perfect nanny, so very perfect that the couple who hire her, Myriam and her husband Paul, are thrilled with her performance.
However, as in all perfection there is a chink in the armor and as the story continues we begin to see those chinks not only in Louise but in Myriam and Paul as well.When Myriam arrives home from work and finds the most horrendous scene a parent can imagine, the story takes off and entwines the reader into what exactly has made the perfect nanny become the perfect devil.
It does not come as a surprise that French President Emmanuel Macron chose Slimani as his personal representative for the promotion of French language and culture: The French-Maroccan writer has done her homework on intersectionality and societal challenges in today's France, and she mirrors that in her work (which can also be seen in her journalistic writing).This story opens with the outcome and unfolds by explaining how it happened: Louise, the nanny of the Massé family, has killed the two young children she was hired to watch.
I found myself wondering, rather meanly, how much Slimani’s attractive profile (young, strikingly good-looking, and from an interesting—Franco-Moroccan—ethnic background) contributed to the novel’s success.Aspiring fiction-writers are beaten around the head these days with injunctions to grab the reader’s attention in the opening lines, and Lullaby certainly does that (“The baby is dead.
The luridness of the subject matter no doubt also contributed to the novel’s high profile, but I didn’t feel Slimani’s novel succeeded in answering the questions a case like that raises.
The transformation of Slimani’s nanny figure, Louise, from Mary Poppins into Medea didn’t work for me psychologically, and I never really felt her life from within.

Louise is a nanny who’s killed two children.
We’re told the story as if from the view point of an emotional less narrator, and I’m not sure if it was the translation or not, but it left a lot to be desired.
The plot itself is also odd, in that it starts at the end and backtracks to the previous months leading up to the murders.
Wedged in between these chapters are small paragraphs told from other view points from after the murders - which I found jarring and confusing, as the police try to piece together what happened.
A quick read, but I’m not sure what all the fuss is about.
Myriam and Paul are the parents of two small children.
When Myriam decides to go back to work, a search begins for a nanny.Never did they think they would find anyone as perfect as Louise.
She's young, she's quite efficient, and she has a way with the children.
Myriam and Paul are delighted and can't believe how lucky they are.But there's something about Louise ...
Louise has a past ...
The children were young and sweet and so innocent.
I started out suspicious of Louise ..
The story goes back into time every few chapters which shows the life Louise has lived.
