https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6505016-the-festival
This early Cthulhu mythos story, first published in Weird Tales in 1925, is central to Lovecraft’s development, powerfully atmospheric in its earlier passages, but finally unsuccessful for a typically Lovecraftian reason: not content with the haunted mood he first evokes, he rachets up the rhetoric, doubles down on the adjectives, and thus dissipates, by his strenuous efforts, every little bit of the horror.What a pity, since the second paragraph of the story ably conveys what Lovecraft would call “the most powerful single emotional climax experienced during my nearly forty years of existence”: his first visit to Marblehead, Massachusetts, a city which embodied “the stupendous totality” of “the past.”

My second Lovecraft.Another lonely traveller (I get the feeling, after only two stories so far, that this will become a recurring theme) travels to his ancient homeland for Christmas, but it's not your usual family tiffs and drunken uncles you need to worry about...Hmm. This was greatly intriguing.
Again, not horrified or even moved particularly by what was written (I'm not sure if they ever will bring any emotion from me) but I greatly enjoy the imagination and indeed the rhetoric, though I feel as I go along it may become dull with time.Perhaps rather too short, however, as there were elements that just weren't expanded in to.
With more reading I'm sure I'll work that out.
Contents:ix - Introduction by S. T. Joshi003 - "The Statement of Randolph Carter" by H. P. Lovecraft013 - "The Unnamable" by H. P. Lovecraft025 - "The Silver Key" by H. P. Lovecraft043 - "Through the Gates of the Silver Key" by H. P. Lovecraft (with E. Hoffmann Price)097 - "The Hound" by H. P. Lovecraft115 - "The Festival" by H. P. Lovecraft133 - "The Nameless City" by H. P. Lovecraft157 - "The Rats in the Walls" by H. P. Lovecraft
3.5A lovecraftian Christmas. A traveller is called back home for the festival. He is not eager, but family obligations prevail. What he finds would change his way of looking at the world. The most prominent thing here is the atmosphere. It is both gloomy and eerie. The Festival is wonderfully creepy short story. You can read it here.
An extremely daft but richly detailed tale, with demonic rituals, winged monstrosities, cultists and the irresitble pull of ancient but gruesome tradition. Pure camp, hammy B-movie fare but enjoyable.
I LOVED this story. somehow, I missed this one. I loved it all! the writing, the descriptions, all of it! I listened to this version:https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/t...it's only 24 minutes long. I listened to it on my way to work.
"Great holes secretly are digged where earth's pores ought to suffice, and things have learnt to walk that ought to crawl."
I still don't get it! It begins so amazingly, very dark atmosphere, with a sense of place like only HPL can convey, and then he decides to wreck the havoc and to overdo everything so that every sentence becomes a labor, a horribly tedious one. Some parts are just so ill-written all the promised horror was diluted between the adjectives then their synonyms then their synonyms' synonyms all stuffed together.Well it's probably just me who didn't get it, but as much as I loved the Nameless city, this one left me indifferent :(
Me gustó las descripciones que da Lovecraft del lugar donde se llevara acabo el ceremonial para todos los descendientes de esa familia tan antigua. Creo que es uno de los pocos relatos que habla del Necronomicon me pareció bastante interesante."Los demonios hacen que aquello que no existe se vuelva, sin embargo, visible a los ojos de los hombres." LACTANTIUS
Good short story by the master of terror, a story written to raise some fear for the readers in a 5 minutes reading.Recommended for those that like suspense and terror, after all, Lovecraft reivented the genre.
3.5Me gusta cómo está narrado, te envuelve en el misterio acerca de lo que sucederá en esta "Celebración", pero se me hizo muy corto. Como una pesadilla de la que recordamos vagamente. Creo que si se lee en contexto de una historia mayor, se puede disfrutar mejor.
References abound to things I've heard of before.
Arkham.
The Necronomicon.
The mad Arab Abdul Alhazred.
Miskatonic University.Is the narrator the same man as in The Nameless City?
No idea.
Feels like not.
But it's certainly a shared universe.
One with an impressive feeling of size for only a pair of short stories thus far.
Overall, there's a big more character here.
The narrator has a sliver of personality.
They interact with their surroundings rather than just going on a terrible ride.
It makes for a fast stronger story in my opinion.
I see why some people really love the world and extended mythos Lovecrafy begat.
The narrator remembered an age-old tradition of his forefathers, a once-a-century Yule celebration and had decided to honour that family tradition. What followed was a night of increasingly strange and disturbing scenes.The narrative is in his usual eerie prose. This one seems to be early Cthulhu, and probably one of his earlier mentions of the Necronomicon. I can't help thinking of the Nameless City, as they share certain similarities, but this one is better and more fleshed out, both in terms of the narrator as well as the imagery it's trying to convey.
Another formative story by Lovecraft, which is considered one of the first in the Cthulhu mythos. The atmosphere is typical of his style, and most of the horror is oblique, but there are some nice touches such as the old man with the wax-like face. Overall, not particularly scary or horrific, but still a decent piece of the puzzle.

This was a short story that leaves you wanting more, but afraid of getting it.
I love the use of ambiguity in this sort of horror.
The sort of telling that leaves your own fears to fill in the blanks.
It seems like he's always known of this sort of pagan celebration that predates Christmas, and yet everything was very much unknown to him.
More so, I like that Lovecraft brings in things from previous stories, like his fictitious author, Abdul Alhazred, whose book keeps being mentioned and seems to be tied to so many different terrifying events.
It helps to build a world in such a short time, and I quite enjoyed the thrill.
The Festival is named after "Yuletide" which is an ancient form of Christmas, so it's apt that I read this story at this time of the year.I really enjoyed the prose of this story, which is very rare - I usually read for action and dialogue (though, I suppose, Lovecraftian works often have neither).
The story is interestingly floral in its description of the wrongness of the town that the narrator visits, and the darkness beneath it.Overall, however, between the two stories of Lovecraft I've read, I find the lack of climax a little jarring.
How can I rate it 2 stars when it reads: “I saw that the books were hoary and mouldy, and that they included old Morryster‘s wild Marvells of Science, the terrible Saducismus Triumphatus of Joseph Glanvill, published in 1681, the shocking Daemonolatreia of Remigius, printed in 1595 at Lyons, and worst of all, the unmentionable Necronomicon of the mad Arab Abdul Alhazred, in Olaus Wormius‘ forbidden Latin translation” - There is no better way to summarise a whole universe of science and magic, which has evolved and matured over centuries, than this sentence by Lovecraft the scholar.
Раз на сто років у прибережному місті Кінгспорт проходить язичницький ритуал Йоль, який був попередником християнського Різдва. На свято з іншого міста був запрошений нащадок давнього місцевого роду. Кінгспорт зустрів його засніженими порожніми вулицями. Він дістався дому своїх родичів і разом вони пішли у церкву. Звідти по спіральним сходам їм довелося спуститися на місце дійства. Приїжджий чоловік ледь не знепритомнів, коли на поклик народу з'явилися крилаті примари, але обличчя, яке сповзло з голови родича, стало останньою краплею. Гість прокинувся вже в лікарні.
I really need to quit reading Lovecraft at breakfast. A man is somehow called by his forefathers to return to the town of Kingsport (neighbor of Arkham), where things are, well, not right, somehow. A ritual reenacted from the Necronomicon ensues. Lots of rot and decay, and an interesting foregrounding of subterranean fungus. On the whole, pretty meh.(Moved 2016 review to the individual work Sept. 2017 to make room to review the collection under its own entry.)
It's Christmas time in Lovecraft's New England, and our narrator is summoned to his ancestral home to participate in an ancient ceremony with Old Man with a Waxen Mask and Spinning Wheel Lady. Of course, the Necronomicon is involved, as is creepy, atmospheric language that drips languidly across the page. I didn't find this as good as some of H.P.'s later works, but still, I enjoyed this creepy little tale.
A young man visits his ancestor's town in order to participate in the local festival, however he finds himself in the middle of a creepy situation. It was very nicely written and really manages to make you imagine the old town and the weird people.
This was the first of Lovecraft's stories I can remember reading that mentions Abdul Alhazred and The Necronomicon, things I immediately wanted to know more about. As for the rest of the story, even now I'm still unsure of exactly how I feel about it.
Short average poem. Not to be confused with Lovecraft's story The Festival.
Lovecraft's prose is pretty good here, evoking an atmosphere without feeling overdone. I'm always disappointed when his protagonists run away before finding out what's actually going on.
Cette nouvelle très courte m'a vraiment beaucoup plu, j'étais très intriguée sur comment allait finir le personnage.
"And things have learnt to walk, that ought to crawl"
I liked this story
Recommended
