https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/30145666-the-dark-prophecy
I tried to think of a brilliant plan. Unfortunately, the only thing that came to mind was weeping in terror. What an absolute dork. I love him so much ♥Honestly, Apollo is hands down my favourite character that Riordan has ever created. I know all of these books have the same light, humourous tone, but none of the others seem to make me laugh so much. Apollo is just so sassy and snarky, and his disdain for humans rings with hilarious truth.I think I like these Apollo stories so much more becaus
I love him so much ♥Honestly, Apollo is hands down my favourite character that Riordan has ever created.
Many of the other voices - e.g. Percy Jackson and Magnus Chase - started to blend together after a little while, and their characters were hard to distinguish from one another.
Unfortunately, I missed the wall.
In this book, Apollo has left Camp Half-Blood behind and is venturing out to restore Oracles and - hopefully - regain his place on Mount Olympus after Zeus cast him out and made him human.
But like he tries so hard and Meg is so mean to him and Calypso and Leo give him 500% a rough time.
I guess I'm a fan of manners and kindness, both of which Meg is allergic to.GREAT THINGS TO EXPECT:• the unexpected; because seriously you have no idea what this book is going to throw at you next• gods on facebook• monsters, murder, and mayhem• booby traps• prophecies that nearly kill you• tofu• mechanical dragons that are designed like lego• a house that only shows you the rooms it wants to and expands when requested• griffins• featuring f/f parent couple• bisexual Apollo• sass• fighting• SASSSSSSSSSSI laughed so much omg.
Here are some steps I recommend from experience: -Obsessively re-read The Hidden Oracle-Obsessively re-read the Percy Jackson and Heroes of Olympus series-Obsessively re-read every single thing Rick Riordan has ever written -Repeat three steps above -Scour the internet for interesting and exciting theories about this book -Read many, many fanfics of the Trials of Apollo-Write many, many fanfics of the Trials of Apollo-Enjoy a brief respite when Magnus Chase and the Hammer of Thor comes out -Freak out when you see the cover for The Dark Prophecy when it's released-Freak out when you read the excerpt when it's released-Continuously repeat steps 1-3Interject all of that with a healthy dose of cursing Zeus for not bringing this book to you faster and freaking out every time you realise you're going to have to wait till next year for the book, and you should be good.
More like 3.5 stars.I enjoyed this book, I really did. Apollo was hilarious (again).But to be honest, I didn't feel it had anything special or memorable. It was just okay.
“Please get off!” the trooper wailed. “Please and thank you!” I hysterically laughed my ass off while I was reading this book on the BTS. The Dark Prophecy picks up after what happened in The Hidden Oracle. Lester, aka Apollo, teamed up with Leo and his girlfriend and comes to Indianapolis to pursue the prophecy he was bestowed. The tone of this book is as good as the first book but the pace is quite slow. Apollo reminded me of Deadpool talking with readers with his sarcastic tone. His developm
Lester, aka Apollo, teamed up with Leo and his girlfriend and comes to Indianapolis to pursue the prophecy he was bestowed.
His attitude is frivolous as always, you know, but it's the point of this series why it's so much differrent from the Percy Jackson series despite the fact that it's sharing the same world-building.Leo, on the other hand, is a solid character in this book.
Moreover, the emperor, Commodus, is exactly a narcissistic character that I almost died of laughing, and I think he might be my favorite villain of all time.
Reading a Rick Riordan book is just pure fun.
Most of you must have gotten by now that   I have gotten completely addicted to Rick Riordan. This is the 12th book I have read by him and I read the previous eleven books almost in row. And the thought of any regret didn't even pass before me.Well, for this book it was much better than the last one. It was more gripping and more interesting. The only thing which was missing here was Percbeth!! Annabeth didn't even appear in the last one. She is helping her relative or something....WHATEVER! I
And the thought of any regret didn't even pass before me.Well, for this book it was much better than the last one.
But in this book, the spark that should have been in their relationship was drastically missing.
I didn't feel liking this ship the way I liked in Heros of Olympus series.
Not a chance after the interpretation of the Prophecy.Regardless of the fact, this book follows the formula of previous books, regardless of it being very predictable (at least for me), regardless of everything, I enjoyed this book.
(hide spoiler)]yep, evil me.this book had all emotions I loved to read in a book, by which I mean: fun & crush-my-soul feels.the events in the Palace, the Game & the Cave were awesome!
by Apollo, (view spoiler)[Leo, Calypso (hide spoiler)], Apollo, Meg, Arrow of Dodona (!) & many more awesome characters!I love Apollo's ancient but also modernized style of narration, his 'Shall we?'s, his comparisons when he told his backstories (both memory rushed ones or flash of memories/familiar senses he knew he should have known.) I can tell thousands of examples, but I wouldn't.
Can't wait for the next book (╥_╥)The only thing that bothered me a little was the prophecy quest thing that has been a thing in all of Riordan's books.بسیار عالی!باید بگم رایردن با شخصیت آپولو شاهکار کرده و درواقع بهترین شخصیتیه که تا به حال به وجود آورده.
تنها چیزی که یه کم اذیتم میکرد این قضیه ی پیشگویی و جست و جو که تو همه ی کتاب های رایردن هست، بود.
به غیر از این همه چیز عالی بود.
چیز جالب توجهی که تو کتاب بود، عادی بودن مسائل ال جی بی تی بود و این خیلی خیلی خوبه!
I honestly don't know how Rick Riordan's books keep getting funnier but they do somehow. Being in Apollo's head, while annoying at times, is hilarious. I enjoyed this book but didn't *love* it. I think Apollo just doesn't appeal to me as much as Percy or any of the other Demigods, but it's really interesting and entertaining to have a new perspective. I'm excited to see where it goes next!
WHY YOU NEED TO READ THIS BOOK:● lesbian warriors who gave up immortality to live with each other & build a home open to anybody who doesn't have one● bisexual main character● a talking arrow who sprouts bits of shakespearean wisdom randomly (yes he's my favorite character,, riptide who?) LEAVEST THOU WELL BEFORE DAWN. ’TIS A COUNTER-COMMUTE, AYE, BUT THERE SHALL BE CONSTRUCTION ON HIGHWAY THIRTY-SEVEN. EXPECTEST THOU TO TRAVEL ONE HOUR AND FORTY-TWO MINUTES. I narrowed my eyes. “Are you som
WHY YOU NEED TO READ THIS BOOK:● lesbian warriors who gave up immortality to live with each other & build a home open to anybody who doesn't have one● bisexual main character● a talking arrow who sprouts bits of shakespearean wisdom randomly (yes he's my favorite character,, riptide who?)
why is everyone sleeping on her she's a GODDESS (not a real goddy person) i would trust this 12 year old with my life● Leo & Calypso are basically main characters and yes their story is everything you could want after BoO and more ((view spoiler)[THEY'RE GOING TO GO TO HIGHSCHOOL TOGETHER I'M (hide spoiler)])● the next book will have the entire squad from Heroes of Olympus and idk about you but that's a reunion i'm not going to miss for a hundred sand dollars
MAY 2017?
Ahora, con la ayuda de Leo (YAY!) y Calypso, Apolo tiene que viajar a Indianápolis, lugar donde las fuerzas perversas del Segundo Emperador se están reuniendo para controlar el Oráculo Oscuro, para salvar a antiguos conocidos y escuchar la Profecía Oscura que los guiará en sus aventuras.
De La Profecía Oscura me gustó muchísimo que Rick Riordan nos muestra que Apolo, incluso en su condición anterior de dios, cometió muchísimos errores e injusticias que, ahora, milenios después, vienen a acecharlo y a cobrarle.
2.5 stars "I, the most important passenger, the youth who had once been the glorious god Apollo, was forced to sit in the back of the dragon." More than once while reading I've had to ponder: Am I getting too old for Percy Jackson? That thought filled me with such terror I had to drink from my Butterbeer cup and gaze up at my wall of Taylor Swift posters to confirm that, yes, I was a stinkin'no-good millennial who blows her money on stupid shit instead helping the economy.But as I read on, I rea
Lots of reviewers adore Apollo, some actually preferring this series over its predecessors because of him.Stale jokes aside—I didn't laugh out loud once while reading—the other wonderful stoutheart primary character we're supposed to root for is Meg. Rude, bratty, crude Meg. I am in no way putting down her character arc.
(Still think Riordan did a 180 on her personality in order to shove them together in The House of Hades, but my babies are undeniably adorable) (hide spoiler)]I'll continue the series because Riordan is the self-deprecating love I keep running back to, but my expectations will remain at a reasonable height below my ankle socks.My review of The Hidden Oracle["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
Oh my lord O_o I think I've gone blind looking at this cover O_o
Pero no he sido capaz, y no sé qué me pasa últimamente con todo lo que leo de Rick Riordan pero me da muchísima pena no estar disfrutando de sus libros como lo hacía antes.
Ya no me hace gracia, no disfruto de sus personajes y las "aventuras" nuevas me parece que están mal hiladas y contadas sin interés, como si este señor solo quisiera llegar de un punto a otro de la novela y metiera cosas de por medio para que le salga un libro medianamente largo.
Rick Riordan siempre ha sido uno de mis autores favoritos, pero últimamente no consigo conectar con él ni con sus libros.
EDIT #3: Decided to drop this down to 4 stars because the more I think about it the more I was caught up in my own hype when I gave it 5 stars.
I still loved it though!!
EDIT #2: Whilst I didn't love this as much as I loved The Hidden Oracle it was still AMAZING.
Apollo is such a great character and I love his dynamic with Meg so much.
I think the reason why I enjoyed THO more was because it was set at Camp Half Blood for a majority of the book.
The book hangover from The Hidden Oracle is beyond real and I need more!!!!!!
Then why, I ask, is it okay to put a lesbian couple, portray two women living together, and promote your own shameless political agenda, in a book meant for young, easily impressionable minds?Whether you support the LGBT+ community or not is beside the point.
And I don't think sexual identification should be put in children's books either, when the young minds reading them haven't even begun to develop sexually yet.Look, my whole problem wasn't even that there were gay characters in this book.
But when you throw in a gay character just to get your LGBT+ brownie points and they're only in the book for, like, two seconds?
I always enjoy reading the books written by Rick Riordan. The stories flow well and the characters are are well developed and thay always make me laugh. I really liked how this book was put together. I was really addicted and could not put the book down at all. He still the best imagination ever. How does he still come up with this stuff? Always an adventure. Best teacher I ever had. And will probably have until i'm like 45 lol.
I was a little disappointed because one of my favorite aspects of book one was that Apollo interacted with his kids, and I was fully expecting a couple of them to join him on this quest (namely Will with Nico tagging along).
(hide spoiler)] Meg returns of course and she's grown on me even more in this book.
Actually, one of my favorite aspects of this book was Apollo and Meg's friendship.
Different from book one in which all Meg does is boss Apollo around they have evolved into a camaraderie where they work together.
Final Review (May add more later) :*spoiler alert!*OMFG...how much I had missed it!All the characters new and old...even the Villain they all brought so much fun!Leo and Calypso were amaze!Apollo ofcourse was funny as usual!Although 1st book was a tad bit better and yet I did enjoy it!(Gonna stop here now coz net may stop any moment sigh)Edit 1 :ASDFDFHHG THE DAY OF RECKONING IS HERE.I AM NOT PREPARED.CANT WAIT TO HAVE IT IN MY HANDS!!! <3[Bringing you this update before it gets entangled in ACOWAR posts]Edit 12 MORE FREAKING DAYS ASSDFDGFHJFGJHK*cries and dies of waiting *Oh Boy.4. MORE. MONTHS.AARGHH.
oh man this is only the second book in a five-books series and shit is already hitting the fan really fun installment. apollo is such a humorous, entertaining, and surprisingly likable narrator. great new cast of characters introduced in this book. v exciting, kind of complicated plotline. all in all, good stuff, uncle rick.video review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e3tvJ...
Who’d have thought he would go from the Apollo he was at the start of the series to the Apollo who willingly offers himself as a sacrifice multiple times in order to save Meg, whatta babe.Can we please talk about Leo and Cal: I know I’m always a sucker for cute couples, but there’s something about these two that just makes me feel so happy.
He’s such a sweetheart, and the thought of him and Cal being looked after at the Waystation, going to school and getting to live slightly more normal lives feels so bloody right.
4.5 ☆QUE FINAAAAAAAAL.No me gustó tanto como el primero, pero lo disfruté muchísimo de todas formas. La evolución que ha tenido Apolo es mi cosa favorita en el mundo, me encanta como narrador y con este libro se ha convertido en un personaje muy especial e incluso puedo decir que uno de mis favoritos del autor.Amo la fluidez de los capítulos, las aventuras nunca se perciben aburridas y ninguno de los nuevos personajes me pasó indiferente. Y la naturalidad con la que representa la comunidad LGBT
La evolución que ha tenido Apolo es mi cosa favorita en el mundo, me encanta como narrador y con este libro se ha convertido en un personaje muy especial e incluso puedo decir que uno de mis favoritos del autor.Amo la fluidez de los capítulos, las aventuras nunca se perciben aburridas y ninguno de los nuevos personajes me pasó indiferente.
Pero oh, mi alegría es enorme en este momento, ya que pude leer a Leo Valdez y recordar cuanto lo amo sin que Calypso arruinara cada momento (o casi cada momento, aun la odio y la quiero lejos, bueno).
What the f*ck? 2017? Are u kidding me Riordan?   2017?!!! You know what? I NEED A DRINK.
In a world where hatred, suffering, and oppression seem to proliferate exponentially (at least in the news, no thanks to the orange cheeto occupying the white house and his enablers in the house and senate), this book is a much-needed tonic of unbridled laughter, sass, and joy.
It is no secret that Rick Riordan has a magical gift for writing characters that one learns to grow and care deeply about (why I am such a big fan of him).
(For those who have not read the Percy Jackson and Heroes of Olympus series, reading these books will give you major spoilers.
before readingQ: why do I ALWAYS read Rick Riordan books right when they come out?!
HITTEST ME WITH THY BEST SHOT!  Calypso edged toward the griffins. I followed behind her—not because I was scared to lead, mind you. Everyone knows that when advancing into danger, the soprano goes first. They are your infantry, while the altos and tenors are your cavalry, and the bass your artillery. I’ve tried to explain this to Ares a million times, but he has no clue about vocal arrangement.   It has been months since I've read a really entertaining book and I've forgotten just how easy Rior
It has been months since I've read a really entertaining book and I've forgotten just how easy Riordan can make me laugh.
This book certainly did not fall short of my expectations!
I've been a fan of Riordan since The Lightning Thief days and I found this to be oddly nostalgic (not that the other books weren't but...you know) and satisfyingly awesome.
Better than the first book in this series too.
Now I just realized how badly I miss Riordan's Greek-Roman world.
I just absolutely adore Apollo's character development here and how his relationships with other people got better when he's not a jackass.Can't wait to read The Burning Maze because we now have a cover, people!
En TDP, están Apollo, mas gay que la vaina; (view spoiler)[Commodus, también fue un amor secreto de Apollo y eso hasta cierto punto me gustó.
También tenemos esta lesbian ex-hunters couple conformada por Josephine y Emmie quienes me parecieron cute, hasta cierto punto, y por último, tenemos a Tall, Dark and Jimmy, quién tiene novia, pero obvio, Apollo es pato y se la pasa atrás de los tipos guapix (hide spoiler)]."He jokes more when he's nervous.
I read all three books very close together and this was the only one that did that to me.Apollo is obviously going to be a jerk and will not change 100% by the end of this series, I’m just still so annoyed because he had gained some sense of caring throughout The Hidden Oracle and The Dark Prophecy had it gone.I did not read a whole book to have my time wasted in a second, no way.✗ AT TIMES IT FEELS LIKE THE CHARACTERS FROM OTHER BOOKS TAKE OVER THE STORYI can see what Rick Riordan is trying to do, he’s trying to show fans of his other series the happy endings of the previous characters they wrote.
Rating: 5Riordan showcases once again his best skills: an irresistibly engaging narrator, funny and snarky side characters, embarrassing and dangerous scenarios, and an abundance of humor.
Infused with allusion to classical mythology and other historical events, the plot is fast-paced and follows Apollo and his friends through a series of tests and other obstacles: he encounters two admirable former Hunters, a certain glass-eyed toughie and plenty of demigods.
Apollo's mis-adventures are engrossing: it isn't all fun and games, in fact Riordan manages to incorporate rather sensitive issues without ever interrupting the story's upbeat momentum.*sees the expected publication**thinks about The Hidden Oracle*May?
May 2017?Okay...I can wait.
I am totally okay with waiting.
