https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/58922.The_Runaway_Bunny
everyone loves this book.
everyone remembers it being lovely when they were children.
but if you read it again you may find it creepy.
the illustrations are beautiful, and the message i s'pose is charming.
he digs all the classics, but we agree that this book is actually somewhat spooky.
the bunny is not really asking mommy to rescue him; he wants a little space and freedom.
if bunny were to say, "how about i go down to the depths of hell to escape you?" mommy rabbit would reply, "than i shall morph into lucifer and gobble you up in my fiery flames of fire."
If Max's mother had followed him to Where the Wild Things Are, you would have this book - assuming she allowed him to cross the ocean.This is the story of a baby bunny and his mother.
In it, baby bunny presents a number of imaginary scenarios in which he gets a little bit of independence for himself via turning into a child, a boat, a fish, a bird, and so on.
For each scenario, mother bunny counters with how she would immediately catch him no matter what.
You're a fish?
You're a boat?
so, ummm, the runaway bunny tries to set boundaries over and over to take some space in this story and basically their parent, tramples them over and over.. kinda creepy.
4.5 stars After I had read Margaret Wise Brown’s popular children’s book “Goodnight Moon,” I wanted to read more of Margaret Wise Brown’s works and I happened to stumbled upon another one of her popular works called “The Runaway Bunny,” along with artwork by Clement Hurd. “The Runaway Bunny” is a truly cute story about the love shared between a parent and child that children will enjoy!The story starts off with a little bunny wanting to run away from home and when he told his mother about it, h
Just like Robert Munsch’s children’s book “Love You Forever,” while it is cute that the mother bunny cares enough for her child to chase him down across the earth, the whole “the mother bunny is going to catch her son no matter what” theme might be unsettling for some readers to handle.Overall, “The Runaway Bunny” is a cute story about the power of love shared between a parent and their child that many children will enjoy for many years!
I was being the free to be you and me mom I tried to be when not hollering at my children - so I kept my distance and let her leave.
I asked her where she was planning on going and she waved towards the distance(surprisingly towards the right direction) and announced she was going to I-95 and walk to her grandma's.
Yeah.We read a lot of this book in our house.
Children seem to get this book more often than adults on first read.
It is a book of great comfort to those who have a restless heart.
My all-time favorite children's book. A beautiful picture of love, as well as a beautiful "allegory of the soul." For the adults, watch the movie "Wit" - the book is read in one of the most moving scenes on film. As Augustine said, "Our hearts are restless until we find our rest in Thee."
This isn't one I'll be reading to my kids. Wherever you go, your mother will find you, so just stay home and eat a carrot? No thanks. Also, the things the mother changes into to find her bunny are often controlling: a fisherman to his fish; a wind to his sailboat; a gardener to his crocus. If it's about unconditional love, which I think it is, the things they change into could have better supported this message.
This one was adorable!
I had forgotten about this book until I ran across it at the library.
The writing and illustrations are fantastic.
Even though my three-year-old may not fully grasp the concept of ever-reaching mother's love, the drawings really fire up her imagination.
Being able to turn oneself into a boat or a bird is pretty cool in her eyes and having Mama Bunny there is very reassuring to her.It's especially a great book to read while you're preparing your little one for the arrival of a new sibling.I will be getting it for her permanent collection as soon as I can waddle to a bookstore.
The best kids book ever. If you have lost faith in mankind, are being charged by a very angry rhinoceros, can't find your car keys, or are just simply depressed, this book will renew your faith in mankind, make you realize that car keys aren't that important anyway, lift your spirits better then any anti-depressant on the market (black or otherwise), and make the rhinoceros cuddle up with you with a mug of hot apple cider instead of throwing you 50 feet to land with 19 broken ribs and one less head.
It is hard to discuss children's books at length, but Margaret Wise Brown's books deserve discussion. Both the Runaway Bunny and Goodnight Moon are true classics. Beautifully written and illustrated, these books bring me a sense of calm (I don't know how else to describe it). These are peaceful books that are wonderful to read aloud.
I love these beautiful pictures. And bunnies are cute.
Reading it recently, I was reminded of another classic, The Giving Tree, which I really dislike.
Whereas they are both about the steadfastness of love, I disliked the "sacrifice everything" message of the Giving Tree.
Here, the mother is persistent and steadfast, and tries to meet her baby bunny halfway, with the ultimate goal of doing what she knows is best, not what the bunny wants on a whim.My only complaint is that this book, like hmm, 99%?
In any case, they are bunnies, so I just change the words to father/son, father/daughter for my non-reading children, and convince them that it could be a father or a mother wearing a dress in the penultimate scene.
5 stars for the color pages and 3 stars for the black and white ones. I only want to look at the color pages.
Sometimes we don't know just what to say.
I like hearing myself talk, but I have to admit Ive had my limits.
And sometimes, when a child is thoroughly angry with you, your own words may not be what they want to hear.
This book was a warm and gentle tool.
It was one I pulled out when a toddler was out of control with their anger, but heck, they were still sorta right, too.
This one taught my kids that Mom was she who must be obeyed...and yet it also said I'm sorry; and of course: I love you.
I love you-- unconditionally.
Which kid doesn't dream of running away? And of becoming something else? It doesn't necessarily mean he is unhappy at his home; on the contrary, he may dare to dream precisely because he is basically happy. I love the old-fashioned pictures in which the bunny is, say, a fish in the river, yet still a bunny. The one I read (75 year anniversary edition) comes with an essay about how this book was written and received. Worth a read.
This book makes me cry, it's so sweet.
I feel like if my ex-boyfriend had been read this book when he was three, we might still be together today. Maybe that's an unrealistic thought.... but maybe not.There isn't really a way to know.
I'm not a fan of these "I love you forever" types of books.
I don't hate them, but they just leave me cold.
Perhaps I have no heart.
I definitely have no children (that I'm aware of), so maybe a baby would make me appreciate them more.
I only picked this up because Wild Things: The Joy of Reading Children's Literature as an Adult had some really interesting things to say about it.
I don't want to spoil Handy's book - go read it.
Ivan: Jeez, that mama bunny has some boundary issues.But I thought it was a beautiful book. I loved the details in the color spreads and might read it again when Vanja is older so we can talk about it.
This was so sweet about a mother’s love! And Clement Hurd’s illustrations were charming!
adorbs! A Little Bunny wants to run away, mom says that if her little bunny becomes x she will be y, basically saying she cares a lot about her little one and always wants to be by his/her side.
hoş bi alıntı gördüğüm için merak edip okudum çoluğuma çocuğuma okumam asla manasız bir hikaye
My copy from when I was small.
I remember this book having some of the most soothing illustrations. As a kid, before i could read, i would just look at the pictures on my own. This is one of only 2 memories i have of doing this, so it's pretty special.
As an adult, I did not enjoy the book as much as I would have as a kid.
The book is not consistent in terms of illustration (going from black and white to color), which threw me off.
The book makes sense and follows the pattern of "If you do A, I'll do B".
I enjoyed that there were cute animals and some color to catch kids' attention.
The illustrations, in the book I read, were overly detailed, which I think kids would not like.
I think kids would like the story in general, but might me overthrown by the illustrations.
This book is read to a terminal cancer patient at the end of this movie, and it is described as "an allegory of the soul."
First sentence: Once there was a little bunny who wanted to run away.
For you are my little bunny." "If you run after me," said the little bunny, "I will become a fish in a trout stream and I will swim away from you." "If you become a fish in a trout stream," said his mother, "I will become a fisherman and I will fish for you." Premise/plot: Will the little bunny run away from his home?
Will his mother let him go?
Just how much does she love her little bunny?
In one of the final scenes (which always makes me cry), Professor Ashford lays on the hospital bed with terminally-ill and near-death Professor Vivian Bearing and reads her The Runaway Bunny.
Dr. Ashford begins the book by reading the front matter (author, illustrator, copyright, and edition) -- which always makes me smile as this is our practice when reading books out loud to our children.
As Dr. Ashford reads through The Runaway Bunny, she pauses "(Thinking out loud) Look at that.
See, Vivian?"And as she finishes reading the book she says to herself, "Wonderful."And so it is....
The Runaway Bunny is still a book that I think about often.
I was her little bunny, and no matter what she would always be there for me.
It's about knowing that your family will be there for you no matter what, supporting you, loving you, thinking of you.
In the end he gets his carrot, and knows he's loved.
I can't even imagine how many times I traced over the images in this book, and even today I still think about it a lot.My favorite image was the little bunny being a sailboat, and his mother the wind and the clouds.My mom's favorite was the little crocus bunny.
