https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32424.Lightning
January 1955 to be exact....and what follows each lightning strike throughout Laura's life is a gorgeous strange man (Stefan)- who pops up in times of trouble to rescue her.Pretend book boyfriend #1Year after year Laura escapes death..and most tragedies in her life with the help of her guardian- Stefan.
Whether he is real or not, she is not quite sure of- but when she gets older, she meets a man she knows IS real -Danny.Pretend book boyfriend #2 (in my youth, I pictured him as this)as an adult, I picture him as this......who coincidentally is also one of my TV boyfriend's "Denny" for those who watch Grey's Anatomy.Eventually she falls in love and settles into a normal life with Danny...forgetting about Stefan...until tragedy strikes again.LIGHTNING will forever be one of my favorite books- It may not be that original (the similarities to The Terminator are hard to look past).
A shocking lightning!!!  A BUNCH OF GENRES This was the third novel that I read by Dean Koontz (back in 1992).Still at that time (1992), I read the book in a Spanish translated version since I was still in the process to be able to read on English. This is another great novel of Dean Koontz that merges a lot of genres......not only horror / thriller that it's what you expect when reading a Koontz's book......but also fascinating concepts of science fiction, along with elements of military, espi
This was the third novel that I read by Dean Koontz (back in 1992).Still at that time (1992), I read the book in a Spanish translated version since I was still in the process to be able to read on English.
This is another great novel of Dean Koontz that merges a lot of genres......not only horror / thriller that it's what you expect when reading a Koontz's book......but also fascinating concepts of science fiction, along with elements of military, espionage and romance too.
As I was commenting before, horror fans are more acquainted with the name of Dean Koontz, however, this book, Lightning is also a wonderful option for fans of the science fiction genre.
This novel is a combination of science fiction (time travel) and suspense, and the result is a book I was not be able to put down.
Another character I liked in the story was Thelma (Laura’s childhood friend).
Laura goes through early life and several situations (starting at her birth) come up that should have hurt or even ended her life.
However, each time she is saved by the mysterious Stefan.
Who he is or why he saves her is a mystery through the first half (or more) of the book.
This is one of my favorite all-time books.
Mine was something like 'Jesus Christ this guy writes about forty books a year, and they all seem a bit rubbish.' I, like everyone else, first came across his novels because they were next to the Stephen King books in the library.
That's the awful rep horror/sci-fi/fantasy books have- we have to use disclaimers and qualifiers in order to tempt non-fans into the genres.Anyway, I read it.
With Lightning, Koontz gave me a protagonist that I wanted to know in real life.
There are no Killer Clowns or Scary Children, but it will make you fall in love with Koontz, and want to explore more.
I used to be a die-hard Koontz fan; I think some of his books in the past five years have fallen off a bit, but Lightning remains in my top ten.
I still have my tattered copy, and look forward to reading it for the third time in the future.
Like some of his other books (particularly Intensity), Koontz has created a strong lead character and a complex but easy to follow plot.
There's time travel.
It may sound like a weird mix, but it works beautifully.
I'm not a die-hard sci-fi or suspense fan, but I love, love, love this book.
This is one of the few books where I don’t want to say much about the story.
I don’t want to give away plots, so in the following list I’m using the word “memory” to indicate which books had a main character with one of these memory problems.The author loves dogs.
Lightning 1988(not read) Midnight 1989 (dog in supporting role)4 stars.
The Bad Place 1990 (memory in beginning of the book)(not read) Dragon Tears 1992 (dog)(not read) Winter Moon 1993 (dog in supporting role)3 ½ stars.
Dark Rivers of the Heart 1994 (memory) (dog)5 stars.
(Probably Top 12, just so I have a book for every month, but I'm having trouble picking two more.) I have a theory about Dean Koontz, and it goes like this: He's only written ten stories in his career, and he's been rewriting them ever since.
Let's furthermore overlook that there are two stalkers in this book: one's a secret admirer and the other is a "guardian", so that's okay.
So, because I'm cutting that blind douchepickle some slack, I'll cut Koontz some slack, too.In summation: I wish I could travel back in time and slap myself for enjoying this book so much, but I can't Paradox!, as Chris says, over and over and over...
I've always been a big fan of Dean Koontz and this one did not disappoint. I like the premise of someone from Nazi Era Germany time traveling into the future to try to change destiny. A fun, fast-paced read.
At other key moments throughout Laura's life, when tragedy is about to strike and leave her damaged or dead, the man she dubs her "guardian" appears and protects her.
It's a sci-fi suspense with loads of fun along the way.And because I always love teaching Why I Love Koontz 101, I leave you with a quote:In tragedy and despair, when an endless night seems to have fallen, hope can be found in the realization that the companion of night is not another night, that the companion of night is day, that darkness always gives way to light, and that death rules only half of creation, life the other half.Here's to another 30 years of Koontz!
I absolutely love this book and remembered how much when I recently read it for the second time. Now, Dean Koontz can write some weird, if not, scary books, but this one was really good. Ultimately, it's a love story that crosses time barriers between the Nazi Germany era and present day. It spans the lifetime of a woman from her birth til she's about in her 30s and makes you see how people's lives can end up completely different just by the actions of one other person. It's a great read and I'd recommend it to everyone!
Fuck this book.
Twenty years after the first reading of Lightning, I found it just as fun and gripping as it was back then.
Was it dated?
Um, yeah!
But that was part of what made it so pleasant this time around.
This is Koontz whn he still had some gas in the tank.
Fast paced, witty, and uncluttered by tons of flowery prose, this is definitely a must for anyone who wonders what the big deal with Koontz was all about back in the eighties.
Sorry, his last umpteen books have left me rolling my eyes and wondering just what the hell happened.
My wife really liked this book, I thought it pretty good, somewhat enjoyable.
Like I said, not bad.
I dropped it to 3 because I usually give a 4 to better books...hard to explain huh?There are some odd moments and a few "duh" moments.
There are some questionable decisions by the characters but all in all not a bad book.
I'm not sure why some get very involved (as my wife did) and others find themselves only mildly interested (me) but whichever audience you fall into I don't think you'll regret this read.
Which is interesting, because the reader can easily see the glaring problems in his fiction - mostly it's his bad, sometimes even ridiculously bad dialogue, the political agenda which threatens to take over the whole plot (something that happens often in his recent books), and his helpless ineptitude at writing realistic and compelling characters, a thing which he hasn't learned to this day.BUT in Lightning he does put together an exciting plot - which was his greatest strenght, as now he doesn't even do that - and in Lightning he creates an interesting concept that makes you turn the pages.Lightning starts out with a bang, but fades out like a diminishing thunder: A snowstorm rages, in a lone house a drunken doctor is stopped by a mysterios stranger from going to deliver a baby - Laura Shane, who is instead delivered by another physician and ends up perfectly healthy.
For a book that was released in 1988 it really has stood the test of time well.
It's still super engaging and imaginative...
like all Dean Koontz novels.If you're reading Dean Koontz then you know to throw reality out the window and strap in for a roller coaster ride of thrills and suspense with great characters.His books would be ridiculous if they didn't have the background and characters to back them up - what I mean is that his stories are fantastical but they feel real because the characters are 'normal' people.I thoroughly enjoyed this book of the life of Laura Shane and how it is shaped by a mysterious force that she doesn't understand.I'm not saying any more than that - it's not perfect but I loved it!
I'm going to finally set it free but will reread it first to see what I think now that I'm a wee bit older ;)Comments on the reread:As is typical of many of Koontz novels, this one starts out with mysterious men conducting experiments of a nefarious nature.
The thing that struck me most about this book was the length of time Koontz was allowed to develop his main characters.
Koontz completely immerses you in Laura's world and allows you to care deeply for her and to care about the people she loves.
Great! The best I have read from Koontz so far!
Originally published in 1988, there are some aspects which now seem dated, but these really didn't detract from what is an exceptionally fun book.Lightning is primarily a suspense story that focuses on the oft times tragic life of Laura Shane - seriously, you might not want to spend too much time hanging with this gal.
In a tale revolving around time travel and altered timelines, Laura and her loved ones find themselves plunged from one nightmare to another, pursued by one of the greatest threats of the twentieth century, and with only the mysterious Stefan offering any hope for their salvation.Seriously, do yourself a favor and read this book.
I think Lightning is among Dean's best.
Although Lightning is not ranked as one of my top 5 favorite Dean Koontz books, the novel surely has a home among the top 10 :-) Lightning is a beautiful story about the power each of us has to influence history in some small way.Lightning was written in 1988 when the Also by Dean R.
Sometimes I think that you're the most interesting people we know.
-LAO TZUPassages from the story:"I don't know.
Something I should keep to myself because if I shared it I'd break the spell....""You're my resident expert in the weird.""Paradox!
Paradox!""Fate is."
I adore this book. It is one of my all time favorites. I can't really explain without giving things away, but this was my first Koontz book and it just grabbed hold of me.I love most of Koontz' work, despite the fact that he has about 3 or 4 formulas that his work fits into, they still entertain me and they are books I can't put down once I start them.
If you ask me in years to come which Dean Koontz book featured a half-assed time traveling segment, mixed with a heartfelt appearance from Winston Churchill, several dimensions, and Nazi's....
Like most of his works I'm engaged in the first 50-80 pages, turning each of them slowly, if not solely out of fear for I know at any point all the traits of a shitty DK book lurks around the corner.
Is it possible I read his four best books in the seventh grade, and now have to tread through the remaining slop in order to remind myself that not all ambitious, courageous ideas are good ones?
The story begins in the '70s and we see a man visiting Laura's life from the day she was born. Sometimes, he interferes and helps her avoid tough situations. He vanishes for many years and when he appears again, they are involved in a gunfire and her husband dies. The story is well developed, with as much drama as needed.It is the first book I read from this author and a good friend of mine, was rather surprised that I missed it.
It has everything you would expect of Koontz, giving us his usual concoction at a time where his stories were at a high.
I know it was to build up a series of events, showcasing moments of the main character’s life, but I felt as though it dragged at times.
I admit that this is partly due to how I’ve been looking for a high octave read for quite some time.
As much as I love Koontz’s work, I know at time it can take him a while before the action reaches the high velocity I was looking for.
December 2018 Group Read link - my second read   I notice a quote from the book, “people envy you for being happy. They envy you for not envying them”. Laura first saw Stefan, her guardian angel at her father’s burial.They say two types of survivors exist, those with strength being loved, those with hatred never being loved. At McIiroy orphanage, she becomes friends with Thelma & Ruth Ackerson - Survivors once loved & Eel Sheener never loved, always attacking girls. She antagonizes her
Laura first saw Stefan, her guardian angel at her father’s burial.They say two types of survivors exist, those with strength being loved, those with hatred never being loved.
At McIiroy orphanage, she becomes friends with Thelma & Ruth Ackerson - Survivors once loved & Eel Sheener never loved, always attacking girls.
She antagonizes her first Foster parents to get back to the orphanage.
Her second Foster parents, she loves but...
She grows up, her love grows, Stefan saves her many times.
Stefan Krieger is a guardian angel character thru Laura Shane's life from child orphanages to the end.
End as Laura accepts Stefan to love.
I loved it then, and I suppose if I was forced into a position of recommending Dean Koontz to anyone, I would suggest that they read Lightning.
You could almost say, "Time Travelling Nazis!", and leave it at that.
These days I find Koontz's attitude and writing to be alternately amusing and infuriating, but on the strength of this book at least I can see why he is so popular.
I kept coming back to his books expecting to see something as exciting as Time Travelling Nazis(!) again, but it never happened, alas.

A bit of a roller-coaster ride between really good and illogical and pretty uninteresting this one.
The first half of the story, unraveling pretty slowly and encompassing many years was the part that I really liked and was glad too see that I did not remember incorrectly, but Koontz at least could write very well at one point.
In his own afterword to this, he explains that this part was what made the publisher put this book on the back burner when he first wrote and submitted it.
DK goes on to explain that, at least this, publisher(s) want their writers to repeat the same story that sold well already again and again.
I did not enjoy this book as much as I hoped.
It appears that the nazis have engaged in time traveling as a strategy to win WW II and that they can only travel forward onto the future but not back.
However, they kept going back to where they came from so I don't understand the logic.
The heroine is the typical mary sue and the little kid is saccharinely annoying.
I had issues with the plot and the characters and did not find that the story was executed in an interesting way.
I love time traveling books such as 
but this book did not work for me.
I like stories about time travelling although I really felt a lot of sympathy for Laura when she mentions getting a headache from all those tangled threads of time travel, paradoxes etc.
One or two times the feeling that the reasoning didn't add up, remained but for the sake of the story (and not getting stuck in that part...forever....lol) I took it as explained and kept on reading.Interesting premise is that we cannot escape destiny.
If you want to know if they do succeed in fighting and beating destiny, I advise you to read the book ;-)
This is now one of my favourite Dean Koontz books! Loved it!
