https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/90311.Collected_Short_Stories
First published 1951A book of short stories can be difficult to recall later.
Keeping a list of the names of the characters in each of the stories, greatly helps me to remember the story.ASHENDEN: Collected Short Stories Volume 3PrefaceMISS KINGAshendenR.
- colonel, Intelligence DepartmentBernardBaronne de HigginsPrince AliMiss King - little old English governessMustapha PashaMonsieur Bridet - the assistant managerDr ArbosTHE HAIRLESS MEXICANAshenden - Mr SomervilleR.The Hairless Mexican - 'The General' Manuel CarmonaConstantine AndreadiEnver PashaLombardosGIULIA LAZZARIAshendenBaronesse von HiginsR.Chandra Lal - dangerous agitator.
IndianGiulia Lazzari - Chandr's madly in love with GiuliaTHE TRAITORAshenden - Mr SomervilleR.
ENGLISH: Seven stories by Maugham, built around Ashenden, a British spy during the first world war, a character based on his own activities in that field.
The story I liked most is "The Traitor," about the capture of an Englishman married to a German lady, who is acting as a German spy.
But the interesting part of the story is not the espionage plot (which is quite small), but its psychological depth and the dilemma faced by the protagonist to fulfill his mission.ESPAÑOL: Siete cuentos de Maugham, alrededor de su personaje Ashenden, espía británico durante la primera guerra mundial basado en sus propias actividades en ese campo.
i picked this book up in what was intended to be idle summer reading - it is, after all, maugham short stories - but for the little effort this book requires (maugham is such a pleasure to read) it's amazingly rewarding. i enjoyed the razor's edge, but the perspective maugham's Ashenden gives you on the characters he meets in the course of his duties as a WWI spy is surprisingly poignant. i feel like a better person for having read this book. oh, and there's some stuff about war, suspense, blah blah blah.
In 1915 MOM was based in Geneva as a UK spy, WW1.
His cover, as a writer-playwright, was perfect.
He was then writing a comedy, "Caroline," which opened in London in 1916, starring Irene Vanbrugh and Dion Boucicault.
Switzerland was neutral.
"My predecessor [Intelligence] had a nervous breakdown, a colleague in Lausanne had been sent to prison for 2 years" [for breaking Swiss law].
It was a hit and some years later this sequence became part of his writer-turned-spy remembrances in "Ashenden" or, herewith, Vol 3 of his short stories.
Middle-brows like to put MOM down.
This is basically a reprint of Maugham's excellent short story collection Ashenden, except that this book also includes the just-as-excellent short story 'Sanatorium', so if you have to choose between 'Ashenden' and this book, go with this one.
Collected Short Stories Volume Three by W. Somerset Maugham (1976)
The protagonist is called to interpret a letter from the young man in Malaya who has now returned, and informed that he is responsible for the love that the young man and the not so young wife (now widow) fell into since he introduced them.
"Virtue be damned" informs her the protagonist, since it had caused so much grief and a death of a loving husband - if only the wife had quietly had had her affair and finished it the man would still be alive.
This is a very entertaining novel. It follows the adventures of a gentlemen spy, who finds himself in the most amusing of circumstances. I particularly enjoyed the authors focus on how the protagonist, Ashenden, seems so incredibly easy to relate to. He gets irritated by loquacious train passengers; looks forward to a simple bath every evening to unwind; and considers himself more clever than most people he meets. This book feels quintessentially British.
It's not remotely worth that--I just mention it as an indication of my relief that Maugham was capable of doing something other than frustrating me or boring me beyond belief.Anyway, these are spy stories, all about the same agent: Ashenden.
Full of the quieter moments involved in the business, a preference of mine that's always made me feel like I should get around to reading John le Carré.
The negative parts are the same as usual with Maugham: a judgemental tone to anybody who isn't like him, some predicable narratives, and--a new quality for this collection--overdone characters (the hairless Mexican, for example), who seem entirely ludicrous, invaders from some other kind of spy story.
Reading casually some of his short stories in the library, I have long admired Mr Maugham’s writing style and wording since I could read and follow with reasonable degrees of understanding so I decided to buy this copy as one of the 4-volume set during my college years 48 years ago.
For instance, “His Excellency” covers 47 pages, “Mr Harrington’s Washing” 45, and “Sanatorium” 28.5.
However, I enjoyed reading “Sanatorium” immensely since Ashenden, the protagonist, had to stay in a sanatorium in the north of Scotland due to his tuberculosis contraction as advised by a specialist in London.
This collection is devoted to short stories of Maugham's gentleman spy character Ashenden.
I really like this bookish agent who judges a saloon as good if there is enough light to read by.
The material it offers for short stories is scrappy and pointless; the author has himself to make it coherent, dramatic, and probable.
Bookish Ashenden is a rather stoic and saguine hero, although many of his contacts like Harrington and especially The Hairless Mexican are rather colorful.
With open, Frost-like endings the stories give much to muse upon and thread together in an imagined chronology ending quietly with an ill-favored wedding at a sanitarium.

Masterful. Exquisite."People judge hastily in the affairs of life because they judge on insufficient evidence.""'Death so often chooses its moments without consideration.'""It is never very difficult to get to know anyone who has a dog.""Time can assuage the pangs of love, but only death can still the anguish of wounded vanity. Love is simple and seeks no subterfuge, but vanity cozens you with a hundred disguises."
Unbelievable how I've gone this far into my life without having heard of this chap. Incredibly vibrant characters that don't even have to do very much before you feel like you know everything about them. Even the most insignificant character feels completely fleshed out and essential to the stories, which often have no satisfying resolution.I'm already plotting the next of his books that I'll read and in what order I'll read the rest.
The universal themes of love and death constantly recur in these enjoyable stories set in the first world war. The English spy, Ashenden is plying his trade on the banks of lake Geneva in neutral Switzerland. As suggested by the persons' names in the titles, the main interest is not the intrigue and espionage, but the characters and their life stories, which are sensitively drawn.
I only read "Honolulu" out of this volume. The beginning of this story held such promise, but I was very disappointed with the rest of the story. I might read the other stories in this volume, but it won't be high on my list.
As much as I love Somerset Maugham, this wasn't his best. Unlike his other collections, this one is a set of stories that follow one from another on the actions of a certain character. Fine if you like it, but lacking the power of his distinct vignettes.
These were interesting, satirical longish short stories about espionage during the First World War. I didn't finish the batch but I read more than half of them. More character study of the oddballs that find themselves caught in the shadow world than tales of gripping suspense and such.
Espionage stories that are more focused on character development than action. For the most part, I liked the character of the spy Ashenden, and I quite liked many of these short stories.
Great book
Excellence. Excellence.
An expert author writing thrilling and insightful spy stories set during WW I. Great stuff.
Maugham is kind of lazy. Sometimes it's like he's about to get totally awesome, and then he just gets formulaic. He could have been so much better.
Not the best in the series in my view, but all the same some very striking tableaus from the Master!
Typical Maugham. The last story, Sanatorium, was touching ;(
All the stories are soy thrillers, so the whole bunch of these short stories are a little monotonous, but still, they are very good.
