https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/194620.The_Miller_s_Dance
Will common sense prevail or will Clowance follow her heart?Ross's son Jeremy has fallen head over heels for a local aristocrat Cuby Trevanion.
The snotty Cuby tells Jeremy he's not rich enough to marry her as her family is depending on her to improve their financial prospects.Jeremy plots his revenge against George Warleggan and the final pages of this book are thrilling to read as his plans come to fruition.
Will Jeremy prevail against his ancient enemy George Warleggan or ruin his own life instead?Once again Winston Graham brings Cornwall to life and I can't wait to begin book 10.
I'm glad, however, that Graham did not drop the early characters (as long sagas often do) and has continued to include Ross, Demelza and even the reprehensible George in meaningful ways.I have been buying and reading these novels in groups of three, and I am sorry to say that when I take the next book in hand I will have entered that last trilogy.
I would never have expected to take on a series with twelve books, but I am very glad I decided to read this one.
"There was an old miller who lived by himself,He ground his corn and taxed the sun.The money he made he put on a shelf,But when he came to count his wealth:One...two...three...it was gone!"This was the Miller's Dance.
The Miller's Dance.
And the Miller, her miller, was somehow here among them, like an unshriven spirit.This installment not only gives us lots of Ross and Demelza (I love them both so much) - it also reveals some of the challenges of their two oldest children, Jeremy and Clowance.
The bitter rage that had driven him to organize this thing had burnt itself out in the performance of the act.
I don't know how Winston Graham does it, but this is another excellent installment of my beloved Poldark family. This time around:Ross and Demelza, there's life in those old bones yet, way to go!Clowance, excellent decision, stick to your guns.Jeremy, that was a close one, hope it works out for you.Bella, I know we'll be hearing more from you in the future.And on a personal note, I am getting a LOT of satisfaction from George Warleggan's dissatisfaction with his second marriage. I badly want this man to get what's coming to him.
Ross Poldark and his family, along with some close friends and several members of his mining company (all hard-working men) await the arrival by sea of a steam engine to be used in mining operations.
Jeremy, who has become highly knowledgeable about the design, manufacture, and use of steam engines, has lost his heart to Cuby Trevanion, who hails from an old, distinguished family in Cornwall that has fallen on hard times.
But towards the end of the year, Jeremy is in for a rude awakening.Clowance is dating Stephen Carrington, a devil-may-care, fun-loving, hard working sort of man.
I held my breath a lot during this book and muttered phrases like "don't go down the mine alone!" and "don't listen to him!" I guess I've come to care about these characters, perhaps a little too much.
It is because I was emotionally invested in the outcome and the writing is superb that I gave this book 4 stars instead of 3.
I couldn't give it 5 stars because it wasn't quite as engaging as some of the others.
I enjoyed hearing of Geoffrey Charles, but wanted him to come home to Cornwall already!
Holy crap. I've been hoping Stephen Carrington would disappear before Clowance could be stuck with him. Such a creep, and I've winced through every bit he's appeared in. Paul is not much better, the whiny git. So now I have a whole new reason to feel uneasy. Damnitall, Jeremy... What were you thinking?And the Warleggans. At least George isn't entirely happy now he's married. I do wonder if he'll be cuckolded by Valentine before we're done, though.
Everything about the Stephen Carrington character is loathsome. Valentine's only a bit better. So, about half the book focuses on people you pray will be struck dead by a bolt from Zeus.
The Miller's Dance, the ninth book in the Poldark series, is filled with heartache, happiness, and chaos; the stuff that real life is made of.Impossible to predict and impossible to put down.
I've been around long enough to know that when you're living life it can sometimes feel like absolute chaos.
I know that I'm going to read the final three books in this series because I don't want to miss anything.
I just want to stay immersed in this saga as long as possible because I know and love these people.
But I feel like I am being slowly weaned off Ross and Demelza since book 7, and that is disappointing.The story of Steven Carrington and Clowance was interesting and held my attention.
Yes, in the 19th century life expectancy was mid 40s, and they are past that age, but it feels a bit like the author was a little bored with them and felt it was time to move on.The plot line developed toward the end of the book with Paul, Steven and Jeremy disturbed me a great deal and did not seem to mesh with Jeremy's character.
Winston Graham steps it up a notch in The Miller's Dance. To me this was the high point of the series.
The Miller's Dance (The Poldark Saga #9), Winston Graham
From the surprising news of another little Poldark to Jeremy's daring involvement in a burglary, this book is one great scene after another.
I still don't know quite what to make about Stephen...I think he is an inveterate liar (lots of inconsistencies in his past) but is also quite open about what he wants and what he'll do to get it, and his work ethic and ambition are admirable.
Again, one day after finishing this book I simply MUST start on The Loving Cup. Long may Winston Graham rule as author of my heart!
Stephen-Ugh. Love how George has no control over his new wife. She just does what she wants and has no patience for his sulks.
A strong comeback from the previous book, The Stranger from the Sea , and I'm happy to say this one was really good.
I liked this one better than Stranger From the Sea but I'm still getting used to all the focus on the younger generation. I didn't fall as hard for these characters as I did for the original cast. Still a great read. Love this series.
It's not the strongest of the whole bunch and it was actually a bit dull when focused on the second generation. Stephen is a pale villain compared to George, who was gone all soft and pathetic. Ross is always awesome as is Demelza, Carolina and Dwight. It's nice to get more Verity and the Andrews and Valentine. Oh man. It is getting all too painfully obvious who his daddy really is. Good read, but not as strong as the others.
Just arrived from USA through USA.In this book, the story of the second generation continues with Demelza managing to get pregnant once again. The napoleonic wars proceeds as the historical background.Next book of this series is The Loving Cup.
I liked it in spite of many pages about steam engines and the war.
The last chapters were insane! All I'll say is what was Jeremy thinking?!!
It still has all the intrigue and romance and heartbreak and family drama that I've come to expect of Poldark, but it also feels more like a transitional volume, as The Stranger from the Sea did.
I'm still getting used to the drama coming from the younger generation -- Jeremy, Clowance, Valentine, Stephen Carrington, etc.
After so much betrayal and heartbreak in the previous books, I really love seeing them so at ease with one another and at such a mature place together.
Her relationship with Stephen was one of the most frustrating aspects of this book for me and I really wanted to shake sense into her!
The Poldark family finds the new year brings new and surprising ventures.
Overall, this is a happier instalment than some of the other Poldark books, of course there is still trouble and heartache for the characters to go through and I would not expect anything less.I enjoyed the main focus being back with the Poldark's.
The Warleggan's feature as well, not as prominently as they do in other books but they develop a lot in this.Overall, it was an utter joy to be back with the Poldark's and this was a delight to read from start to finish.
Not a huge ending or cliffhanger, which is kinda nice. The ending chapter was beautiful though. Book 10 here we come!!!P.s the only Poldark book (out of 12) I was missing was #3 Jeremy Poldark because when I read it, I had borrowed it from a friend. Well, I was in a charity shop on Saturday and the only Poldark book they had was Jeremy and now it's mine 👏😍
Could do without the detailed engineering discussion of steam boilers and mechanical requirements. Glad that the story came back to be more character driven.
One of the best Poldark novels in the last several of the series!
Jeremy does something at the end of the book that I feel is out of character, I hope he's punished, but I also hope he gets his girl.
We can't all be Demelza.) My biggest question is, who ends up in Trenwith.
If they resolve that in book 10 then maybe I'll be done with the series.
I do love the marriage between Ross and Demelza, it's just very good and human.
Maybe that's the 'big reveal' that drives George to death after an illness similar to Aunt Agatha (except she was super old).
Another installment in the saga, and I am really enjoying living alongside the evolving Poldark family and experiencing their troubles and happiness. The first two children are now grown adults and forging their own lives and finding love, while their parents are still as much in love as ever.Next book please!
I have been enjoying each of the novels in the Poldark series.
The more I learned about the character of Stephen Carrington the more I disliked him.
Stephen claims he loves Clowance but he did not like her independence or her closeness to her parents and siblings.
I cannot believe I have now read nine books in the series.
I love seeing how the characters have changed since the beginning of the series.
These novels bring the characters to life and the setting of Cornwall too.
Clowance and Jeremy just felt like strangers in the last instalment, but now I think I understand them a bit better and so I care about their story a little more (thank GOD Clowance didn't marry that god-awful Stephen Carrington!!!!).
Also, Ross and Demelza were a little absent, I thought, from the last book since the focus was on the kids.
All I want now is more Dwight and Caroline and I'll be happy.(P.s, Demelza scared the hell outta me in this book; I genuinely thought for half a second she wasn't gonna make it and I was ready to just throw myself off a cliff there and then...)
Frankly, I'd give this one star, but I reserve that rating for things I do not finish.
I managed to push through this, giving it an automatic upgrade to two stars.
Graham seems to have taken all the character developments and personality of Ross and Demelza and thrown them right out the window.
Jeremy's character is kind of a shit, and I'm pretty sure that's not what Graham was going for.
Sadly, even though it was completely out of place and bizarre, the robbery bit is also the best part of the book.
