https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2947793-pemberley-shades
It has been four years since Elizabeth Bennet and Fitzwilliam Darcy married Their pastoral life at Pemberley with their young son Richard is close to perfect until the death of the parish minister sets a course of peculiar events into play that recall a plot in one of the Gothic novels so popular during Austen’s life.
Many of the characters from Jane Austen’s novel make their summer visit to Pemberley Manor; Charles and Jane Bingley and their two young daughters, Mr. Bennet sans Mrs. Bennet (with little explanation, but does she deserve one?), Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner, Lady Catherine de Bourgh and daughter Anne (quite a surprise which is thoughtfully explained), and Kitty Bennet who adds a bit of theatrical drama and energy to the palatial manor!
Darcy travels to London to interview him and returns to Pemberley with both this candidate and a war-wounded partial-amputee cousin, a Major Wakefield.
So there are to be 13 people sitting at table during this season: Charles and Jane Bingley (visiting with their two daughters), Mr. Bennet (who surprises them with a drop-in visit), Kitty, Rev. Acworth, Major Wakefield, Lady Catherine and her daughter, Anne de Bourgh (who arrive a day early for their visit), Mr. and Mrs. Gardiner along with residents, Darcy, Elizabeth and Georgiana.
The 2 Robinson sisters are definite characters and play one actor against the other ala Lady Catherine, an old and dear friend.
Unlike some sequels that start immediately where "Pride and Prejudice" ends, in "Pemberley Shades" we drop in on the Darcy's during their third year of marriage.
I loved reading more about some of our favorite characters: Kitty, Georgiana, and Anne de Bourgh all have a little time in the spotlight in this sequel and I enjoyed their storylines.
If you would like to see Lizzy and Darcy after marriage and are curious to see what happens to Georgiana, Kitty, and Anne de Bourgh, I think you will enjoy reading this book.
Mr. Darcy Presents His Bride: A Sequel to Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice 4.
The writing style of this author was great! The way Darcy and Elizabeth's marriage was portrayed was just perfect - in character, in time period and realistic. Darcy must pick a new vicar for Pemberley and the one recommended to him by an old friend is a mystery in himself. I wouldn't describe this novel as gothic but a slight mystery - nothing too shocking. Some of my suspicions proved true whereas others did not so I enjoyed the novel. Very well written! I'd love to read so,wing by this author again!
Pemberley Shades, originally published in 1949, is widely considered to not only be the first Pride and Prejudice sequel, but first published form of FanFiction.
Pemberley Shades also claims that the cast of Pride and Prejudice returns, but don’t expect to see Mary Bennet, Charlotte Collins, Lydia, Wickham, or even Mrs. Bennet, which I found to be very odd.It’s great for those that don’t like the more contemporary novels where Elizabeth and Darcy’s only concerns are sex, sex, and sex and the arrival of a heir, but I found it to be a little vexing its slowness.
There is a mystery about one character’s true identity, but we are informed of that almost immediately and Bonavia-Hunt is unable to create a sense of danger or suspense; even when the person who is not Stephen Acworth is making improper declarations or has one or another of the ladies alone.
I especially liked the elder Miss Robinson, the imperious daughter of the just deceased pastor, who continually oversteps her place by making arrangements directly opposing the wishes of the Darcys.
She is, predictably, a great favorite of Lady Catherine who appears in all her imperious glory.
L’immaginario collettivo, infatti, poteva immaginare Mr Darcy come Sir Laurence Olivier ed Elizabeth Bennet come Greer Garson.Non sappiamo se la Bonavia-Hunt abbia visto il film — molto poco fedele all’originale, praticamente in tutto — del 1940, tuttavia l’idea per un sequel potrebbe essere scaturita anche dalla popolarità riscontrata da Orgoglio e Pregiudizio sul grande schermo.
It's my favorite Jane Austen book (I've read everything she's written.) When my sister-in-law told me about this sequel, I was intrigued.
Who doesn't want to know the "rest of the story?" This book picks up a few years after Elizabeth and Darcy are wed.
However, he has promised that they would try out this arrangement for six weeks, and Darcy is a man of his word.There are many household visitors during this time frame and this book wouldn't be true to the Jane Austen spirit without at least a couple of single characters falling in love and the bumps and misunderstandings that come from this state of happy confusion.
The writing style and storyline had a simple elegance to it.
As this sequel was published in 1949, the author had no preconceived movie version of Darcy and Elizabeth, and therefore character development stemmed purely from her interpretation of Austen's original work.
LOL).The author incorporated other original characters into the storyline, keeping them as amiable as Austen created them.
After some of the sequels and adaptations I've read, I felt like this was a homecoming, of sorts, to the simplistic beauty that is the heart of Austen's writing.
I loved it! I thought the prose was excellent, but this may have a lot to do with the story being written in 1949 as well as Bonavia-Hunt's life experiences. I deeply enjoyed the "mystery", and was most please about the conclusion. I was surprised with the omission of characters we regularly see in sequels, such as Col. Fitzwilliam, but I liked the new characters very much. I was most impressed with Bonavia-Hunt's characterization of the original characters, it was very authentic and captivating.Loved it! I just had to say it again.
Quite interestingI noticed that this story was mentioned in another adaptation and my interest was piqued.
Its actually quite well written story.
Having read a great many P &P adaptations over the years, I understood quite quickly what was happening with one of the characters.
Lady Catherine and Anne coming to Pemberley stirred up the pot.
The sisters living in the Personage and refusing to move out when their father died was hysterical.
I was trying to imagine this Darcy evicting two elderly women!Essentially its a long house party with family and some friends along with deceit, romance, confusion, ending with a ball and a couple eloping to Scotland.

For all those that love Jane Austen, this is a must read. Thoroughly enjoyed.
The best Austen fanfic I have ever read! The language is just right. It is not hurried in any way, similar to Austen's style. I recommend it highly.
Her books are never the story of one man and one woman falling in love.
There will never be a sequel that can capture anything and everything Austen was...as a writer.
We've got a nice balance of Austen characters--Elizabeth, Darcy, Georgiana, Kitty, Lady Catherine, Anne, etc.--with new characters: Mr. Mortimer, Miss Robinson, Miss Sophia, Major Wakeford, Stephen Acworth, etc.
But while Mr. Darcy feels he is good enough for that, the idea of him becoming the new rector is unlikely.
Those that love Jane Austen and who typically find modern sequels to be sickening.
Who find that modern writers just don't get what Elizabeth and Darcy are about.
Surprisingly, I found this one the most enjoyable Pride and Prejudice sequel I had ever read.Experience had taught me to lower my expectations and accept that authors would be hard pressed to produce a work that matches Austen's literary style, tone, wit, and also stay generally faithful to canon.
The characters of Elizabeth and Darcy in Pemberley Shades feel just like they would if Austen had extended Pride and Prejudice to cover their lives two years after their marriage.
The fact that there were no events or dialogue that felt jarring and out of place is a tribute to Bonavia-Hunt's considerable writing skills and clever use of a few facts from Austen's original to weave something new.
I'm not really sure about the "lighty gothic tale", because the gothic theme is only very very veeeery light. But ignoring that, this book is a really good sequel to Pride and Prejudice. I was able to guess most of the plotlines, but it was written in an engaging way and the author managed to stay true to Jane Austen style.If you're looking for a calm nice return to the world of Pride and Prejudice, then I can higly recommend reading this book.
This one has the humor, character depth and interesting plot, not to mention slow, rambling narration style, of Miss Austen herself.Ms. Bonavia-Hunt set the Austen style on the first page:"Who could have foretold that Dr. Robinson, who had done nothing of note in all his lifetime should, by the common and natural act of dying, set in motion a train of events so strange, so startling, so far removed from probability, as to emulate the riotous fancies of a disordered mind?"It takes place, as you might have guessed, at Pemberly three or four years after Darcy and Elizabeth wed.
I had read good reviews and thought I'd give it a try.I did not expect much, but I was very pleasantly surprised.
The way Jane, Kitty and particularly Georgiana were portrayed did not always work for me, particularly Georgiana came off as rather bland.This is, in truth, fanfiction, but apparently this was the first instance of Jane Austen fanfiction (or so I've read) and it is a surprisingly good one.
I would recommend it - the tone is very near Austen's and effortlessly so, making it an easy read.
Pemberley Shades: Pride and Prejudice ContinuesDeception and lies do not get passed the Darcys and Gardiners.
Unbeknownst to Darcy, Stephen Acworth has a brother born from a French actress and his father.
When Darcy arrives, the bastard son posses as his brother, Stephen Acworth and accompanies Darcy to Pemberley.
When they arrive, Elizabeth feels that she knows him from where in London, but cannot remember.
Immediately during the first week, Darcy and Elizabeth realize something is not right.
When Mr. Gardiner finally gets to talk to the real Stephen Acworth, Darcy now knows he has an imposter at Pemberley.
Now this was fun! According to my knowledge this is the second sequel to Jane Austens novels ever to be written. And I must say this is the first one I really enjoyed reading. The characters are sort of true to the original characters of Pride and Prejudice, though given the time difference they did developped a bit. Not only Darcy is severe when it comes to propriety but it seems that Elisabeth got that from him also and speaks like a book and seems to be quite unforgiving in situations where I
Not only Darcy is severe when it comes to propriety but it seems that Elisabeth got that from him also and speaks like a book and seems to be quite unforgiving in situations where I would like her to be less so.
As the story unfolds, you will find that Darcy is trully Jane Austen´s Darcy who while severe and on occassion unsociable is loving, noble and forgiving.
I really enjoyed the conversations between Darcy and Elisabeth, for those made me believe that this famous couple of the world literature really lived happily ever after.
As I said I enjoyed this book very much.
The first of the P&P "sequels" I've read that really seemed to capture the characters - and produce a story that didn't make me roll my eyes.
Instead, this is an at times melodramatic, but surprisingly believable, story of Elizabeth and Darcy dealing with a man who is not what he seems on top of the everyday problems that come from running a large household and patronising a village.
And while cracks appear in Elizabeth and Darcy's relationship, they are not overplayed, and nor is there any suggestion that they are anything more than the problems any couple may face over time.
I enjoyed the build up of tension when Mr. Acworth went to stay with them and their reactions to his character.
However, I feel that pacing in middle was way too slow and there are scenes in the book which add nothing at all to overall narrative.
This, not doubt, added to the slowing down of the pace and it almost became boring if it was not for the mystery of Mr. Acworth.
Overall, I think that book was an interesting read and had real potential to be great if the middle was better paced.
The author told us, rather than really showed us, how attractive and witty Elizabeth is, and how forbidding yet fair and polite Mr. Darcy is.
Actually she did show us Mr. Darcy's politeness several times, I'll give her that.The original characters were decent and reasonable, nothing really special.The mystery was, well, not very mysterious.
So from a decent beginning, we moved into a drawn-out middle, a reveal that wasn't really surprising, and an ending that I liked quite well.
I wavered between 2 and 3 stars--would have done 2.5 if I could--went with three because I liked the ending.
I was eager to read this book.
I was curious to see what happened to Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy.
While this story was interesting in its own right, it was very difficult to get into.
It moved slowly.
And though easier to read than Pride and Prejudice, it felt like I was being talked at as opposed to enjoying the ride along with the characters.
I wish there had been more dialogue as those sections moved quickly and were far more enjoyable to read.If you are curious about what may have happened to Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy you may enjoy this.
It takes place three years after the marriage so we find Elizabeth secure and in charge as Mistress of Pemberely.The banter between her and Darcy was fun to read and the way Bonavia-Hunt wrote the dialog between them left me in no doubt they were still as much in love and understood each other very well.I wish Elizabeth hadn't been so slow figuring things out - that made her seem a little dunce.
But, seeing as she was SO busy keeping guests, I guess I won't complain too much.I'm glad I read this sequel - it was a good one to get my Lizzy and Darcy fix.
So, it is a good sequel which is not turned into something too modern, as I have read in some other occasions.
Anyway, it is a bit slow.
There are too many walks and they are too long, so I guess this book could have been a bit better with less walking around :P What I found strange is that the Bennet family is not much considered, maybe it would have been nice to see Elizzabeth's parents come around sometimes.
Anyway it was a nice reading, and I am always pleased to have a bit of Darcy with me sometimes ;)
This was an enjoyable P&P sequel.
The author did a good job in maintaining the style, language and personalities of the characters P&P fans know and love.
The story was interesting, although not really much of a mystery in what occurred, and the new characters that were added were a nice counterpoint to the familiar ones.
If you are a Pride & Prejudice fan, I would recommend this as a sequel worth reading.
It maintains the things we love from the original, but adds enough "new" in both characters and situations to make it an interesting new story for the beloved characters
The author continues the story of Elizabeth Bennet, now married to Mr Darcy. I wasn't expecting to like this story very much, as I imagine it difficult to achieve the literary excellence of Jane Austen. However, the characters were very engaging & the story was fun. Mystery, folly, and manners are very similar to Pride & Prejudice. There are elements of romance but, in my opinion, not nearly as "delicious" as written into Pride & Prejudice. The use of "vintage vocabulary" is aptly applied. Very enjoyable :)
I somewhat literally stumbled on this title as I was shelving books in a part of the library where we house infrequently circulated older fiction books. The author has mostly achieved the tone and pacing of an Austen work, and the story was not inconsistent with something that might have happened subsequent to the events detailed in Pride & Prejudice. For me, it was an altogether pleasant and well-done read.
