https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/626403.Tales_of_the_Don
One of the very first Russian translations I have read. And one of the best. Some stories of this collection affected me so emotionally that I have spent days thinking about the characters.Gives a good insight into the effect of revolution on lives of villages faraway from the capital, whereas most of contemporary books focus on people directly involved with it.A great book, I'd recommend to anyone.
A well written book, but one that is very depressing. It depicts a time in Russian history when the Bolsheviks are consolodating their hold on the country. The author tells short stories showing various aspects of the conflict from different points of view - the cossaks, the women, the children, the bolsheviks - everyone. And you see the sense in all these points of view and can't help feeling a huge sense of helplessness and waste.
The original Tales from the Don is a collection of 16 stories of the dramatic events of revolution and civil war; they reflect the same inspiration that produced Sholokhov's great novel And Quiet Flows the Don which was published few years after this collection.
"Tales from the Don", therefore, can be called a prelude for Sholokhov latter Masterpiece.It seems like this novel is no longer being published and the books that are combined under this has many differences.
The book I've read only had a collection of 6 stories (but I felt they must be the best in the collection).
Trata con crudeza el impacto que tuvo en Ucrania un hecho tan insólito en la historia de la región como la Revolución de Octubre, con la consiguiente Guerra Civil que devastó el país.
La ilusión por un mundo justo, como nunca antes visto, choca con la reacción interesada de los terratenientes, que veían con recelo cómo los campesinos comenzaban a levantarse contra el orden existente.
El conflicto de intereses deja familias rotas, con hijos que se alzan contra sus padres, y padres que acompañan a sus hijos en la aventura revolucionaria.
Me gustaron especialmente "Sangre de Shibalock" y "Un enemigo mortal", aunque todas las historias merecen la pena.
Buenísimos los cuentos, ideológicamente marcados por el período histórico que vivió el autor, pero descriptivos de la multiplicidad de formas de vida más allá de la propaganda soviética.
Reading this book made Mikhail Sholokhov my second favorite Russian short story writer of all time. Congrats Sholokho!! you're now just behind Checkove in the list :D. I could easily give 5/5 for each story of this book. I mean, what more a fan of Russian literature can ask for !!. It got stubborn Cossacks, ruthless bandits, red army, Lenin and above all, the beautiful river of Don. Sufferings and the pain these people endure are fare more greater than what we usually see in the stories of Gorky .
Русская версия игры престолов. в живых не останется никто - кишки наружу всем
These stories portrait the lives of the people who were caught between Communist ideologies and traditional ideologies in Russia.
Pomalo mučno, pomalo naturalistično, pisac nas provodi kroz vrijeme revolucije, gladi i krvoprolića na Donu.
I was already a fan of Sholokhov, and these stories fit right in along the Quiet Don epic. If you like soviet-era short stories, then you'll probably like these.
