https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/32979.The_Secret_of_the_Old_Clock
I had"ve read the first 10 Hardy Boys books to my son ("one more chapter before going to bed PLEEEEASE papa!!") and figured I needed to let my daughter get in on the fun.
Of course, my son said, "The Hardy Boys are better!" but who was on the couch listening in while pretending to ignore my daughter and I?
Yep.The first book of the Nancy Drew series is the story of a lost will that Nancy is helping the disowned and impoverished friends ("Allison sings so beautifully and little Judy is so cute," again my daughter) and family of now-dead Josiah find before the rich and spoiled Topham's (including the condescending Ada and Isabel both of Nancy's age) recuperate the whole massive estate of -gasp!- $100000 (boy, the times have changed since the 50s!!).
We happen to own a copy of The Secret of the Old Clock, and I checked out a second copy of this classic from the library so we could read Nancy Drew's debut case together.
She has been solving mysteries with her father in his office for her entire life, and now she is ready to solve a case on her own.Along the way, Nancy meets the Turners, the Hoovers, the Mathews, and Mrs Rowen, all of whom stand to benefit if Crowley's second will turns up.
My daughter enjoyed reading about Nancy as well, and she has already checked out her next few cases from the library.February is over, woohoo!
The Girl Detective begins! This is the very first book, introducing the popular character of Nancy Drew. This edition is the revised one, changing the age of Nancy Drew from 16 to 18 years old. (But since in later series, her age is changed back to 16, that’s an irrelevant modification. THE HEROINE Nancy Drew is the only daughter of Carson Drew, prestigious lawyer of the town of River Heights (a fictional town, by the way). Her mother died when Nancy was 3 years old (original edition stated tha
This first book in the series has the title of The Secret of the Old Clock.It’s not a misleading title, quite the opposite, it’s a too spoiling one.Since the case is about finding a will that nobody know where it could be, sooooo……you don’t have to be goshdang Batman to figure out since quite early in the reading, that in the very moment that a clock would appear in scene, hey, hey, hey, you’ll be hot!In my humble opinion, I’d think that a better title could be “Nancy Drew and the Missing Will” (yes, I know, Harry Potter is my veins, I can’t help it!) so in that way, you’d be as clueless as Nancy when the mystery is just beginning.
If I never of picked this book up I might not of ever of got into reading, which would of been very sad, because reading is just so much fun for me.In this book you have Nancy Drew who follows into her Dads footsteps and becomes a sleuth into a mystery of a Will that happened to be a mystery and Nancy has to find the new will before it is too late.I never have reread this series but I am happy that I finally plunged into them because all of the childhood memories came back to me.
I have a very clear memory of my mom giving it to me in the car on the way back from Palo Alto, which can't possibly be correct because she wouldn't have handed me a book while driving on the freeway.
I hope girls still read these books, and I hope one day to hand my own daughter The Secret of the Old Clock, though probably not on the freeway.
A solid start to the series that got me started on not only mysteries, but also series reads. Nancy Drew embodies everything a girl hopes to be: smart, athletic, ingenious, brave, friendly, fun, pretty, adventurous ... well, I could go on and on, but you get the picture! I love trying to solve the mystery along with Nancy, although it is easier now as an adult and after I have already read it before! Recommended to children as a suspenseful, action-packed mystery that they can work to solve alongside Nancy. Recommended to adults for an easy, nostalgic mystery read.
So I was watching the BDSM episode of Our America, and this one chick said that she first discovered her fascination with being tied up when Nancy was being tied up by the bad guys...I TOTALLY DIDN'T GET THE MEMO THAT I SHOULD HAVE BEEN GETTING EXCITED.Anyway, I loved this series as a child. I intend to revisit it someday. Nancy was my girl...and apparently these books are a gateway drug to a kinkier life.
What if goodreads doesn't adhere to half-stars rating system? We have always the option of providing us with one ourselves, don't we?⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐- roughly the equivalent of 4.5 stars, but still remains higher than 5? Serves my propensity for loose rating very well! We now know what 18 year old girls of yore, who didn't live their lives at the rate of 20 texts per minute, 50 cuss words per hour, 30 books per month, were doing when they had nothing important to do- driving around the town in their co
, for example!Why, you stole my pencil!Why, you ate my share of the pumpkin-pie!Why, you are home early!If that was the popular cry of surprise you grew up hearing everyday, then you probably lived in a household where Nancy Drew was a permanent occupant- either you were the one smitten by the young sleuth or you spent several hours of the day wondering how your sister could be so engrossed in a girl who didn't have half the fan base that Sherlock Holmes commended.
I think Nancy drew was the beginning of the end for me.
Her adventures and the mysteries that she solved made me yearn to solve my own.
This made me inquisitive, leading to a job as a journalist at 14.
It also made me want to write.
And here I am...just a few years later (Ok, more than a few), and I'm a writer of suspense, mysteries and thrillers!
:) Go figure.I recommend this book for pre-teens and young teens.
And for women who want to remember a piece of their youth, pick it up and read it now.
I broke with our usual pattern around these parts and decided to read some Nancy Drew before Brontë took it on.
She said she needed "a break" from longer books after having read Murder on the Orient Express and Poison Study, so she picked the Farley Mowat.
I expected Nancy Drew to be about as good as an old Hardy Boys but no better.
I hope that Brontë picks this up next time she needs a break from long books.
Sta reci sem...
naivno?
Zastarelo?
Mada opet ima neki svoj sarm, narocito oko glavnog lika koji predstavlja, za ono vreme nesto dosta originalno, mladu damu koja se bavi poslom koji nije tolko pozeljan za mlade dame.Prica kao prica je dosta jednostavna, likovi su ili crni ili beli bez neke posebne dubine ali sve je nekako pisano dosta nevinim glasom sto me onemogucava da budem suvise kritican ka ovoj knjizi.Jeina stvarno svetla tacka jeste sama Nancy koja je prikazana kao vrlo pozitivna osoba sa jakim osecajem za pravdom, odredjenom dozom hrabrosti i zeljom da se pomogne onima koji su slabiji ili u losoj situaciji i to sve bez neke zelje za nagradom ili posebnim statusom.Probacu jos i sledecu pa ce mo videti.
I'm slowly making my way through reading the original text Nancy Drew books.
My childhood was filled with the yellow, matte revised texts.
Surprises: -She's sixteen in this book and blonde bobbed.
(not the titian haired sleuth in the later books!)-Nancy's conversation with Jeff Tucker.
Not at all politically correct and also surprising that it is included he is drunk as they are conversing.
Not a sentence I expected to read in a Nancy Drew book.
26 has a lovely quote about Nancy driving and having "Middle West" pride.
-I want to research the make of the Crowley clock...
I want one now.
Honestly reading this book as an adult was almost brutal.
Nancy's whole demeanor/thoughts/words used etc were just so cheesy.BUT, I read quite a few Nancy Drew books during my preteen years & I absolutely LOVED them.
I loved them enough to never part with the books & if I find the "old style" edition of a Nancy Drew book that I don't have I buy it, still.
So, I am giving the book 5 stars because when I was a kid I really did think these books were amazing.
Anyways, I will always love Nancy Drew & I used to envy her when I was a kid.
Ah Nancy Drew, an oldie but a goodie! I remember reading these as a young girl and it was one of the only happy moments from my childhood, when I got lost in books such as this series. Wanted to reread them and see if they were as good as I remembered them to be. I was not disappointed! A little cheesy, but it is a juvenile book after all. Gotta love me some Nancy Drew. 🙌🏽
This is the first time I've read Nancy Drew since I was about seven, and imagine my delight when she turned out to be absolutely out of her mind bonkers. She's always mulling over fresh tire tracks and sparkling her eyes at her own father while wearing an attractive linen suit. I love her. The only things missing for me were Bess and her extra five pounds.
I want to give this a five because of the enormous impact it's had on the popular imagination, and because it's the first book in a series that features a female main character who is smart and brave and rescues her boyfriend instead of the other way around, and because I read it about 100000 times when I was a kid, but the writing is just so bad.
One thing that never struck me before: why are there so many pairs of siblings in this book?
Is there one?Anyway, Nancy Drew rocks, kudos to her for lasting this long.
I won't knock this too much as this was the series that made me a reader but dang, it's like a book version of Scooby Doo!
Helen Corning does, even though she disappears for most of the series and only pops up occasionally, like in The Bungalow Mystery as a married woman.Originally, the Stratemeyer Syndicate only produced the Hardy Boys.
But eventually, they did come out with The Secret of the Old Clock, which became a huge hit, and Nancy Drew was born, thrilling generations of young girls and giving them the idea that a woman can do anything she wants.
My first impression of this book, AKA the first sentence completely and totally put me off.
I don't know what kind of person Carolyn Keene was, but i would not like to be her friend.
Firstly, she writes like a snob.
This was completely irrelevant to the whole mystery which was predictable, and you pretty much knew exactly what would happen at the end from reading the first 3 chapters.
I am NEVER reading another Carolyn Keene again!!!
Never have I been more revolted or appalled from the writing in this book...I actually HATED it...and i never hate books...but this is the first exception...
I remember being shocked at how boring this was. So little plot or mystery and really little happens. It is very innocent. I can't believe this became so popular. Maybe it's better as a kid; I read it as an adult. I read a few more to give it more of a chance.
Well I do recall, as a girl, reading a Nancy Drew book and then telling my friends we had to go 'look for clues.' About what and where and why we were doing so, I had, literally, no clue.
(Of course today we'd tell all those honest folk looking for a hand-out to just 'get a job!') But no, Nancy's on the trail of the villains who forced the old man to write this second will and leave all these worthy folks in the dust.There's no boyfriend Ned in this book, no girlfriends.
I was just as shocked as anyone when I started to read "The Secret of the Old Clock" and found Nancy to be annoying.
"The Secret of the Old Clock" has Nancy Drew in her first stand alone mystery.
The Turners not knowing Nancy at all tell her about the fact that they were counting on inheriting money when their rich older relative, Josiah Crowley passed away.
It didn't seem as if anyone even cared that the old guy had passed away to me.
I read later on that this book was a slam on the noveau-riche class and I can definitely understand that.
The Secret of the Old Clock, the first in the mythic Nancy Drew series, was originally published in 1930 with a substantial revision in 1959.
Yet this edition of The Secret of The Old Clock is fresh, breezy and reads rather as if it could have been written yesterday.
But you believe her, and this book takes you with her, every step along the way.
Yes, The Secret of The Old Clock blithely trots from crisis to crisis and Nancy skips from problem to resolution without barely messing up her hair, but you do not stop reading.
When I was a kid I blasted through all of these books one summer, and came away with a lifelong automatic crush on any woman who has strawberry blonde hair.
It'll have some unusual words - I think I remember seeing "demure" - but nothing showy.I feel like anyone seriously reading this review wants to know if it's okay for your kid, so: yes.
You read the rewrite when you were a kid.) There are no people of color (at all) to be weird and racist about, and no boys Nancy's age either.
I reread this book now to fulfill a Pop Sugar Reading Challenge prompt, "a book you loved as a child."I totally understand why I loved this book as a kid: an 18-year-old girl with her own car and no immediate cares in the world embarks on solving a relatively benign mystery, that of finding the will of a man who has recently died, so that his true heirs can receive their bequests.
Very altruistic!Given that my copy was published in 1958, it's surprising how independent Nancy Drew is portrayed.
It was published long before I was born, but it really resonated with me as a child.
Waffling between 3.5 and 4 stars, mostly for the nostalgia factor.
91st book read in 2017.Number 340 out of 655 on my all time book list.Just a kind story of people needing help during the depression and someone stepping up to help.
I remember my mom buying me the huge boxed sets of these books for Christmas and my birthday- we got them from Costco (if you've ever been to Costco you know all about the amazing boxed sets of books they have) and I read and re-read this series over and over.
I don't remember much about the books individually, but I know the I loved reading about Nancy, George, and Bess and their adventures.
Objectively I know the cover redesign was a good move, but I miss the bright yellow spines and vintage illustrations.
"Nancy Drew, an attractive girl of eighteen, was driving home along a country road in her new, dark blue convertible." And with that fateful first line begins the journeys of Nancy Drew. Little did she realize that these adventures would last for years to come.Nancy Drew was my childhood. Since I was handed a copy of this book when I was 8 years old, the same age my mother was when she first read Nancy Drew, I was hooked. I dabbled in some Trixie Belden and the Boxcar Children (I even named one
"Nancy Drew, an attractive girl of eighteen, was driving home along a country road in her new, dark blue convertible."
Little did she realize that these adventures would last for years to come.Nancy Drew was my childhood.
Since I was handed a copy of this book when I was 8 years old, the same age my mother was when she first read Nancy Drew, I was hooked.
Nancy Drew, an attractive girl of eighteen, was driving along a country road in her new, dark blue convertible.
I remember reading lots of Nancy Drew, Hardy Boys, Famous Five, Secret Seven and Malory Towers books while growing up.Came across this book and thought of reading this to revive old memories.
I don't think I have read this one before though.18 yr old Nancy Drew lives with her Father (a well-known lawyer) and a Housekeeper.
By nature she is a busy-body having everybody's good at heart.In this story Nancy is on a quest to find a will that would help people who need them more instead of the greedy people who seem to have inherited everything.The book started out ok but the pace increased as the story progressed.
