https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/57891.Battle_Royale
I came across this book after reading “Hunger Games” by Suzanne Collins which was claimed to be a “Battle Royale” rip-off.
If “Hunger Games” is more of a personal story of survival from the POV of just one "player," “Battle Royale” is a complex story which follows all participants of the game.
It is much more brutal, violent, and bloody than “Hunger Games.” The book explores what makes regular kids turn on each other, what in their pasts allows them to commit the ultimate crime or what stops them from participating in the killing game altogether.
At times I felt something was lost in translation.
You keep getting thrown into the head of someone and given their whole mental landscape for maybe 1 or 2 chapters, before they die in some completely awful way--which means you root pretty hard for some people you know are doomed, you find yourself almost applauding the death of some stuck-up jerks (and then feel bad about it), and you watch helplessly as some real sociopaths mow down one kid after another.More than anything, this is like watching a horribly-violent low-budget exploitation movie you see at midnight somewhere--there's ZERO surprise it was almost instantly adapted into a movie.
Great entertainment for people with a tolerance for high amounts of violence, but also a really well-done study of the psychology of extreme fear, and some insights about totalitarianism as well.
I felt there were times during the novel where the sentences were disjointed and/or abrupt, it wasn't a huge problem for me but I know it will annoy some other readers more.Though I appreciate that the violence in Battle Royale might make some readers queasy, I never found it to be gratuitous like a lot of other people did.
In Battle Royale, the perspective changes frequently (I liked it but it may infuriate some) and looks at many different types of people.Though both stories are considered dystopias, I think The Hunger Games' world is more developed and easier to picture as a reality.
WOW.In my opinion, this book could (and should) have been way shorter.
The only reason this book is so long is because the author felt it necessary to go into tons of detail about each character's backstory before killing them off.
I also loved how brutal this book was, both in terms of the violence and the way the characters interacted with each other.
This one is definitely not your typical YA novel (if you'd even call it that.) So overall I enjoyed this, but obviously didn't LOVE it.
For example:(1) different bags of weapons and food given by the government(2) the battle filed gets smaller everyday(3)(view spoiler)[two 'winners' in the end instead of just one (hide spoiler)](4) The backstory of a former winner who had lost a girl he loved in a previous game(5) said former winner doing what he could to help the main couple(6) former winners joining the game (BR movie, Catching Fire)(7) a 'host' saying cheerful things on air throughout the game(8) the names of the dead teens being announced by the end of every daySomeone else had already done the comparison in a more detailed way than I did: http://www.buzzfeed.com/miamaria/35-r...On the Author's Note part of the Chinese version of Battle Royale, the author expressed his regret of making America look like some sort of Promise Land when he first penned this novel, it's made clear that his view on this country had later been changed.I recalled Haruki Murakami also expressed similar regret in one of his articles.
Che bello ritrovare personaggi che nel film avevo amato come Shuya, Shogo, Noriko, Takako, Mitsuko e Hiroki qui ancora più approfonditi.
Sebbene alcune scene splatter restino insuperate nel film, per creatività e estro visionario (l'epica scena del faro risulta, nel romanzo, molto più piatta), il libro è maggiormente crudele e sanguinario.Se poi la forte attenzione alla sfera romantica dei legami tra studenti può sembrare inizialmente estremismo manga, ben presto si svela vincente nella caratterizzazione psicologica degli stessi: adolescenti (ancora non uomini e donne), costretti a diventare adulti in una società (molto vicina alla realtà) competitiva, dove la sopravvivenza segue logiche darwiniste, lontana dall'empatia e la collaborazione.
Seeing that a lot of people compare The Hunger Games to Battle Royale, I figured I should give it a shot and I'm quite glad I did.
To make things interesting, there are forbidden zones on the island and anyone caught in one is killed instantly via the explosive collar they are all forced to wear.
Sound good?People are killed right off the bat and the book never lets up.
Kazuo and Mitsuko both needed their hash settled from the opening bell.I mentioned gore earlier and this book has more than its share of gruesome killings.
I read the first hundred pages of Battle Royale and fell asleep. That night I dreamt that I was in The Program. (I remember fleeing a pretty intense gunfight and thinking nonsensically: dammit, at least I'm getting good exercise.)I hardly thought about it until the next evening, when I began to read again and only finished as the sun rose. You cannot know gunfights or car chases until you've read Battle Royale.It's fantastical, it's pulpy, and it's brilliant. I wish it had been written with more realism, but you can't have everything. Perhaps Koushun Takami will write another, some day.
After reading the supposed original, I could say that the plot for both books are pretty similar but Koushun Takami's novel is of an entirely different league -- it's quite incomparable."Battle Royale" does have a very colorful and well handled take on the the fight-to-the-death premise than anything I have ever read before.
It's a book of mass-slaughter: more than forty deaths and practically each one is described, and a litany of brutality and betrayal that even in its many variations, can be a bit of overkill.
I say dialogue, not monologue, because almost every time, it's seriously like reading a two-sided conversation they're having with themselves, where they repeat many of the same things AGAIN, because, you know, they've got to convince themselves of stuff or something.) Stupid, annoying characters are stupid, annoying characters in any language.
How the characters react is one of the reasons that people read books like this.
I just remembered the thing that I had forgotten until right now, which is that this kind of sentence occurred way too fucking often in this book.
Not only did the author managed to impress me with the plot, but he also managed to make me feel sympathy toward some of the characters.
Then he shocked me again after the plot twist that it was all Kawada's plan and Shuya and Noriko were still alive.
(hide spoiler)].Despite all the great things mentioned, I still had some problems with the novel.
At first I thought it wouldn't be a problem, but along the way some characters weren't even that interesting.
Everyone should be aware though that there's really no such thing as a new idea when it comes to writing.
Terrific writing, interesting characters, and a perfect ending.
This is more like a 4.5 out of 5.I loved this book so much. Such an original twisted story. I got a little confused over all the japanese names but luckily once they started to die off I got to grips with who a lot of them were. I love books that have some short chapters and some long chapters.The student count at the end of each chapter.Loved shogo. Also LOVED the end. Even though I seen the movie years ago i had forgot what happened.Brillant
I picked this up based on the fervor over "OMG The Hunger Games so totally ripped this off." And for the first half of this book, I agreed: I thought I knew exactly where BR was going, and how it would get there.
But about halfway through, Battle Royale and The Hunger Games part company.
Hunger Games, everyone who wasn't from District 12 was a villain, someone to be avoided and distrusted, and that was easy because we didn't know who those other characters were.
Oh, and for those who thought Hunger Games was a violent book?
Whenever I think of this book, I picture Takami sitting down with a piece of paper and making a list of dozens of cool, violent ways to kill a person.
And my personal favorite, splitting open a head with a machete like it is a ripe watermelon!Then he goes about the task of writing a book that incorporates each and every one of these deaths.And are you concerned that you will never keep up with all the Japanese names?
You have to remember the premise of the book promises 40 odd deaths in the span of 600 pages.
I get why SO MANY people compared The Hunger Games with this book (which is the reason I picked Battle Royale up in the first place) because of the basic Lord of the Flies, kids-will-be-kids premise.
I'm not prepared to defend the violence in The Hunger Games, or comment as to whether I thought it was cheesy or not, but in that book it is not the sole focus of the story.
I think the violence is basically boring in both, but in the Hunger Games there is at least less of it, so I have less to be bored with.
3.75/5absolutely this book like the hunger games or the hunger games like it but of course has different things and I think i loved the Hunger Games more
Don’t get me wrong, I loved The Hunger Games but it’s nothing compared to the masterpiece that is Battle Royale.
You (the reader), along with the characters, have no idea what the fuck is going on so you’re full of suspicion, rushing to put everything together before it’s too late.
2. You (the reader) know E X A C T L Y what the fuck is going on so you’re screaming inside as the characters trust someone they shouldn’t, walk right into a trap, misinterpret something, etc.
Because this book is told through the rotating POV of every character I got both these kinds of suspense, and it’s delicious.
on acid who killed Stephen King and tossed his body into BTK's backyard.I have read this book twice in the last two years both times within two days and I can guarantee that I'll read it a time or two (or three) again in the future (NERD!).
There are 42 students, 42 Japanese names (and if you're not Japanese, therein lies guaranteed confusion) and 42 different personalities that are thrown at you within the first few chapters.
Out of these 42 students, by the rules of The Program, only one can survive.
This version had five typos stretched over 624 pages (the final 20+ pages of the book is an interview with the author that I didn't bother to read).
I think the least amount of time he spends developing a character is the absolutely hilarious death of the anime fan near the end of the book.
Besides, people like happy endings.
You don't have to read a majority of popular novels to the end these days due to the expectation and delivery of the same people surviving and the same villains being dispatched in all the same fashion.
The movie is even more like the Hunger Games, but it doesn't scratch the surface of the book.
;-)****************************************(Back to your previously scheduled book review):Holy Massacre, Batman!If you feel like the Hunger Games was way too sweet, touchy feely, and gentle - this might be more your style.
If you wondered what it would be like if all 42  kids grew up together, knew each other, and trusted each other before the Hunger Games - your answer lies within this book.
I'm just amazed at how deep this book was able to go into the character's minds when there was so much action and so many people.
My heart is still pounding abnormally fast, and every few seconds, I have to take a break from typing to watch the French countryside rushing by outside the train window instead.* The view is strangely soothing, and I definitely need some calming right now.So. Battle Royale.
That's why I kind of feel like an insignificant smudge on the ground right now.Unlike The Hunger Games, which focuses only on Katniss's narrative, Battle Royale jumps around from one student to another.
Wow, if you thought The Hunger Games's ending was jarring, you will be totally unprepared for Battle Royale's.
Battle Royale was a lot more graphic than I'd imagined.
Si es que esta web es una gozada, ya se lo digo yo a todo quisqui.A lo que vamos, va de qué meten a toda una clase del insti - en un Japón alternativo con dictadura nacionalsocialista incluida- en una isla y sólo puede salir uno vivo.
Les monitorizan y van anunciando por altavoces quienes van muriendo y les hacen otro tipo de putadas como ponerles collares explosivos, zonas con prohibiciones de estancia según horarios y o se matan entre ellos o les matan a todos.“Coño, pues vaya plagio de Los juegos del Hambre de la Suzanne Collins, ¿no?”.....ERROOOOOOOR!!!Este libros es 13 años anterior al de la Collins.
I figure society's perpetual blood lust is never as deeply buried as we think (or hope).
Stephen King describes Battle Royale as "an insanely entertaining pulp riff that combines Survivor with World Wrestling Entertainment.
Or maybe Royale is just insane." It really is a crazy, page-turning reading experience that's driven by raw emotion and a rollicking series of action sequences.
There's tons of blood and gore, so if that's not your thing, stay away.
I was pleasantly surprised to care about the six major characters Takami spends the most time developing.
Battle Royale is a pulse-pounding, adrenaline ride!
Just two little words and I was immediately consumed with the need to know why.Wikipedia gives the following plot outline:"The novel and manga Battle Royale takes place in an alternate timeline, according to the book's prologue, where Japan is a police state, known as the Republic of Greater East Asia.
The ending while perhaps crazy-thrilling and oh-so-amazing to the cultees, seemed painfully apparant by about page 150.When I compare the truly shocking texts found in Naked Lunch or Fight Club, to the truly sad tale that is Battle Royale, I see no basis for comparison.
I heard about the movie before I read the book, so I knew that the premise was a combination of Lord of the Flies and automatic weapons.
I guess I've never been exposed to extreme violence in books where my imagination comes up with images.
I will admit there was a woman with attractive legs sitting next to me so as I was reading the right hand side of the book part of my attention was slightly diverted.
But I swear that I was more focused on the gory action in the book.
I had heard several times that the Hunger Games was a rip-off of Battle Royale.
I personally always thought the Hunger Games was a combination of The Running Man and the Long Walk.
There were some really fucked up kids in this book.
Which is to say, there are some really fucked up kids in real life too.
I am glad I listened to this on audio because I would have slaughtered the names of these kids.
I’m hoping you’ll all excuse me on this one.
I mean no offense, I’m merely stating a fact.
It’s a fucked-up story, people.
There's room at the top they're telling you stillbut first you must learn how to smile as you killif you want to be like the folks in the hillThe above lyrics written by John Lennon kept playing in my head over and over while reading Battle Royale and it's really no wonder.
What else could one ask for?Battle Royale was also adapted into a movie in 2000 whose further success ended all governmental controversy that had broken out due to the themes described in the book.
Although I liked the first of The Hunger Games series, Battle Royale makes me want to go back and throw it in the one-star pit once and for all.
5/5 stars DON'T TOUCH ME RN
But this time, Shogo has a plan, and if Shuya and Noriko can bring themselves to trust him, they just might be able to beat the system.This is one violent book!
While the movie was pretty gory too, we are getting pretty desensitised to graphic scenes of violence these days, but it is less usual to come across them in books.
It's about our humanity, our efforts to think well of others, our trust issues, and love.I recommend this book to anyone who was affected by Lord of the Flies (it has similar themes), and anyone not easily sickened by gory scenes.
El libro en el que esta basado los juegos del hambre.Para resumir juegos del hambre pero con sangre,
