https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/322351.How_to_Eat_Fried_Worms
“You’re a bastard!”That’s what one school-aged child says to another somewhere in this book.
I read it in the third grade and I remember very clearly talking to Kevin Petrasek about it, Kevin telling me it was a swear word and me not believing him (I had never heard this word before in my life).
So of course I asked Miss Lisak and she decided we should discuss it further in detention.So anyway, my kid picked up this book at the library today.
I understand they changed later versions of this sentence to “You’re a fink!” which is totally fucking ridiculous.
So I was 6 and I remember vividly; The teachers brought us out an Oreo dirt cake with gummy worms.
My imagination was so vivid that I thought that stuff was real!
I had not seen gummy worms or Oreo cake yet!
The thing is they were acting like it was real and I was totally believing them!
The worms, the dirt, like one teacher was jiggling the worm around, then ate it.
Anyway, this book is cemented in my memory because of that and because later I saw the movie.
Good book though.
Eating fifteen large earthworms (nightcrawlers) for a silly wager, while this might have appealed to me as an eleven year old, as an adult, it makes me rather shudder (and I actually also feel sorry and some compassion for the poor worms, especially the last nightcrawler that is literally consumed alive, not to mention that Billy's and Alan's bet is for something like fifty dollars, a pretty large amount of money that could encourage imitation, even gambling).
I remember that my mother was more horrified by the prospect of my reading a book titled How to Eat Fried Worms than Billy’s mother seemed to be by the fact her son was eating worms.
How to Eat Fried Worms is a children’s novel centred around three boyhood friends and a bet.
Anyways, this book isn’t really ABOUT the act of eating fried worms so much as it is about friendship and the fissures that gambling and trickery can cause in relationships.
It’s about keeping your word and also, to a point, the lengths that people (children) will go to to acquire things, such as motorbikes.
I read this book with my Reading Class.
We spent a month listening to the book on tape and filling out a packet that went with it.
I found it entertaining and very creative.
I completely understand why it is considered a "modern classic," because it is one of the first of its kind.I found the characters to be a little confusing and had a hard time keeping everyone apart.
Also, I thought at times the book dragged on.
However, I enjoyed the creativeness of the story and how the book was written at a lower level but was made for older students.
A tale I read many moons ago - but was funny. I purchased this for my oldest daughter who said, “Mom, I can’t believe you let me read a book with curse words!.”😂❤️
Billy, the main character and recipient of 15 worms challenge, is drawn by the author with all the thoughts, actions, and unique characteristics that make for a believable character and one children can connect with easily.More than just a book about four boys and a slightly disgusting premise, How to Eat Fried Worms is sure to please young readers and older readers who remember their favorite book from fourth grade.
The book is about Bill and his two friends Alan and Joe. Billy is a normal kid with no money who wants a new motorbike and to earn the money for it his two friends bet $50 that he can’t eat 15 worms in 15 days.
So on the day one of the bet Alan and Joe bring Billy a worm which has been boiled in mustard, horseradish and ketchup.
Over the next few days the worms that Alan and Joe bring are just as horrible.
But with the help of Billy’s mom and his other friend Tom Billy comes up with special words that will help him eat the worms.
Originally posted here as part of the 30 Day Book Challenge.Wow, who knew this question would be so difficult?
I remember lots of books I read when I was a kid, but I think this was the first chapter book I read on my own.
The First Novel I Remember Reading I had no idea they'd made a movie of this book!
I am kind of afraid to watch it.Man, 6 year old sj LOVED this book.
They will LOVE this.
Love it.Have any of you out there seen the movie?
I kind of imagine it's horrible.
I can just imagine 10-year-old boys making this sort of bet with each other.
It was also funny seeing how the other two try to trick Billy into losing the bet (and there are a couple of good tricks).I do have to say that this book is somewhat dated.
When it comes down to it, it's all about dealing with peer pressure and that will stay relevant forever.If you have a couple of hours to spare (whether for reading or listening to an audio book), then go for it and pick this one up.
Audiobook: listened to this with my 9yo son on a road trip. I have memories of loving it as a kid, and he ended up loving it as well, however, as a grownup it's not as awesome as my memory of the story.
How to Eat Fried Worms by Thomas Rockwell is a very humorous story about a group of young boys and a dare.
Billy dares that he can eat fifteen worms in fifteen days, and if he does, Alan will pay him $50 out of his savings account that he has earned.
The events that happen in this book are surprisingly realistic (though hopefully not!), and readers learn how a group of young boys interacts with one another.
I do believe that this is a great book for young readers, and I think that they will thoroughly enjoy the humor and events in How to Eat Fried Worms!
The premise is a bet to eat 15 worms in 15 days.
I was initially repulsed at the idea of eating worms but inspired by the idea of winning the fifty dollar bet to buy a mini-bike.
. hmmmm, maybe the Southpark Kids know about that too?I recently re-read How To Eat Fried Worms as a source of inspiration for a story I am writing and I highly recommend it to anyone who is (or once was) ten years old.
It all starts with a bet over whether Billy can eat fifteen worms in fifteen days--one worm a day.
It turns into a mini Lord of the Flies with his opponents (Alan and Joe) doing whatever they can to win.
Lots of twists and turns here!
Also lots to chew on--would you cheat to win a bet?
How far would you go to win a bet?
or somewhere thereabouts.)Editted to add: I read other people's reviews and I noticed a lot of teachers reading it to their classes.
I don't know if I would read it to a class....
I read this book as my 8th book this year to improve my reading skills in English.
While I was reading, I sometimes imagined that I was eating some fried worms.
A couple of days ago, when I Skyped with my friend from Texas, he advised me that to make reading books in English every single day my hobbits, I mark a circle on a calender after reading.
While adding the circles, it makes a chain.
After listening to the advise, I'm following it and keeping making a chain.
I hope reading a book in English will become my dairy routine.
Billy makes a bet that he can eat fifteen worms in fifteen days - there is fifty pounds at stake!This is a hilarious story written in such an original way as to make your stomach churn and laugh as each chapter takes you closer to his target.
It will both revolt and delight you and I can imagine children making gagging noises as you read it to them!This book would be brilliant to read to a class, leaving them wanting more at the end of each chapter!
Good to discuss descriptive writing and how to use chapters in a story to great effect.Would recommend for ages 7-9.
My students and I read this book...it is good...but at times it is difficult to read...some words are hard to figure out... My class and I are going to watch the movie...I heard its good... There are some great and funny passages in this book...I do recommend it...but I also,recommend doing a good job helping the students understand some words being used...make it great adventures in vocabulary!!! Hugs to all!!!
This book is grouse yet awesome at the same time. The character are Billy, The Bully, Adam, twitch, Techno, Plug, Bradley, and Irk. Billy has to eat 15 wormsI really liked this book but I would not recommend this book to any squeamish people. This book really was grouse, But it was a good book
This book was disgusting. It is about a boy named Billy who has to eat 15 fried worms over 15 days. Billy goes to the doctors and finds out that he is sick from eating the fried worms. I think that the book has no humorous moments in it, so that is why I gave it a 1⭐rating.The book does leave you hanging at some moments. All in all, You should not waste your time reading this book.
This book was disgusting. It is about a boy named Billy who has to eat 15 fried worms over 15 days. Billy goes to the doctors and finds out that he is sick from eating the fried worms. I think that the book has no humorous moments in it, so that is why I gave it a 1⭐️rating.The book does leave you hanging at some moments. All in all, You should not waste your time reading this book.
This was another book I shared on audio with my son. It was an excellent book to share with him. The story behind "How to Eat Fried Worms" was quite easy to follow and I was able to use it as a learning tool for my 6th grade boy.I like how it showed his Mom getting involved and baking the worms....something I'd never do, but it was quite funny.
This book is about a boy that gets in a bet that he can't eat 15 worms in 15 days and how his friend tries to trick him. I thought this book is good for younger kid that like to read and older kids that need a book to read
Didn't like this as a kid but as an adult I loved the scenes of the glee of getting up to trouble when kids are unsupervised. Used this as a read-aloud with 5th graders and they loved the gross descriptions and the old timey (1980's) vocabulary lesson.
I picked up a used copy of this book at Goodwill a few years back and re-read it. Definitely not as good as it was when I was in single digits. :)Can't wait to hand it off to the nephews.
I used this book for a 4th grade book club and they really loved it. We were able to break it down in small chunks for them to "digest" at eat meeting. It is just gross enough to even make reluctant 4th grade boys want to join a book club. I read it when I was in the 4th grade as a child, and I enjoyed it just as much reading it again today. *And as a side note, I picked up on some of the funny things I missed as a child. Ha!
I probably liked this when I read it as a kid. But as an adult I was actually just more grossed out by the copious amount of condiments Billy ate with his worms. It also made me think about the way so many rash decisions have been carried out as a point of pride and honor. So, while my children enjoyed listening to this with me, I did not enjoy it much.
While my 4yo and 6yo were not impressed, I loved the nostalgic feel of this book. I remember that I liked this book as a kid, though I didn’t remember much. The best part is the dialogue—so raw and real, just like boys talk. Delightful. The writing isn’t wonderful; It almost reads like a play, but it’s a fun, quick read.
It was a pretty good book. Honestly though, I think the fact that I love the movie kind of made me dislike how different they are. I know, I know the book came first. But I still really liked the book even how different it was.
the book was ok but the characters where confusing
This is a book that I honestly thought was pretty atrocious. However, I have heard many people say they loved this book, and it is definitely written in a unique way. Would suggest this book for older "more mature" readers.
Funny, even the second time around as an adult.
