https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/158930.Man_O_War
After reading the official biography of the famous racehorse known as Man O’War, I decided it was about time I went back and read the fictional biography of the horse, written by the famous horse writer, Walter Farley.
You see, back when I was a young kid in love with horses, I was an avid reader of Walter Farley.
I see all these new movies coming out, like Seabiscuit and Secretariat about these great horses and horse owners that overcame all the odds, and I’m sad to realize that no matter how fast Man O’War won, he simply isn’t a Hollywood horse.
A good fictional account of arguably the best American racehorse ever. I liked Danny and felt his pain at the thought of losing Red, and his joy and wonder at Red's beauty, majesty and ability.While I much prefer Dorothy Ours' A Legend Like Lightning for the facts of Man o' War's life, this book puts us in emotional touch with Red through the eyes of someone who had actually seen him in person.
I read this as a child and loved it. I picked it up recently but could not finish. It was written at a time when women were not considered as strong as, as smart as men. It bothers me that this image of men as better than women was prevalent in the 50s and 60s and that my love of horses subjected me to this type of sexism.
I really really wanted to love this book, it’s a (fictional) biography of the legendary racehorse Man o’ War, grand-sire of Seabiscuit and one of the most tremendous thoroughbreds of all time.
The narrator, a young boy who grooms for Man o’ War during his 3 year racehorse career, is obnoxious and the writing style gives him even less confidence than his character already portrays.
AND, Farley and his MC seem to hold all racing female horses in the same kind of contempt.
I am now entering the horse section of my favorites shelf reads.
Shall we?I had read through the other two standard horse themed books and was searching for more.
Up to this point all of my reads were fiction all the way.
This bottom shelf bookend was large and in charge and way left of my comfort zone, even if it promised a horse theme.
I can’t say for sure if it was a librarian that persuaded me or just time running out on a library book search, but I went for it.
I read this book over and over when I was in school. I found it just as entertaining as I did then. While it is a fictional account as far as the characters, the strength and beauty of this magnificent horse shines through even today. Man 'O War will always be my favorite.
I loved this book when I read it as a kid - I was a little horse-crazy and the details of caring and racing really kept me enthralled. That topic isn't as interesting to me as an adult, so I didn't enjoy it as much now, but it was a good nostalgia book.
This one did not live up to my childhood memory of it.
I still love the story of a stable boy and his love for one of the greatest (if not the greatest) race horse in history.
Apparently, this book is where I learned a lot about horse racing (I was a fanatic as a pre-teen!).
There is a lot of information about racing and horses just thrown in for detail--too much detail.
The story gets lost along the way.
While I wasn't as offended as some by the author's references to women (he does after all have two women characters who are the best at what they do), some of the descriptions were insulting.
The disdain for women throughout the book is appalling. I get that this was written in 1962, but it was really bad. Every time a woman was mentioned, she was put down. Now I'm going to re-read The Black Stallion and see if Farley did the same misogynistic writing.
The fiction comes into play because Farley invented a character to accompany Man o'War through his racing career.Man o'War raced as a two year old beating all comers.
He lost one race because his jockey let him get boxed in.As a three year old Man o'War broke racetrack record after record.
His last race was at the end of his three year old season against Sir Barton, an older Canadian horse.
He was held to seven lengths ahead of the other horse yet still ran the mile and a quarter in 2:03 minutes.Man o'War was only a name to me before reading this book.
You can almost smell the racetrack and hear the roar of the crowd.The re-telling of the legendary match race between the big red chestnut and champion Sir Barton makes you feel like you're in the stands yourself, watching red lightning on four hooves blaze down the track to victory.
Meticulously researched and lively, "Man O' War" tells us about an extraordinary Thoroughbred who burned up the track nearly a century ago, flying past all challengers like they were standing still.
It's one of the best "horse stories" I've ever read.
Man'O'War, by Walter Farley, is a book following the life of a horse and his stable man.
It starts at the beginning of the horses life, his birth, and the way he was raised and trained, all through the eyes of Danny, who took care of him.
This book shows the emotional journey of Danny as he follows his horse to auctions, new owners, races, and victories.
The author forces an emotional connection between the reader and Danny and the horse.
I would recommend this story to anyone interested in horses, or just a good story.
I am a huge secretariat fan but now that I have read this book I can't pick which horse I like better.
They are both considered the best of all time in my opinion.
Anyway to get to the point this is an inspiring book about a groom and his great red horse that grow up together and make it through the hard struggles of the racing world after world war 1.
It keep me on the edge of my seat and brought history to me right before my eyes.
This is a book you need to read I'm 13 and I adored this book!
Another book I read as a kid. Walter Farley of course wrote all the Black Stallion books as well as several other fictional horse stories.This is a turn at non-fiction or maybe 'faction' would be a better term. Farley always brings his horses and the characters that surround them to life in engaging and entertaining ways.I still think Man O' War appeals to all age levels--horse fanatic or not. I'm not an equestrian by any means, but always did adore Farley's stories.
Many of you may not know (and by many I mean probably one) I am a horseracing enthusiast. Man o' War is consequently one of my favorite books, and here's why:1. It's a book about a horse's life and still manages to be interesting.Now I'm tired of reviewing, so I'll leave it at that.I'm a terrible reviewer. Sorry to all of those with expectations of grandeur. Read the book and write me a review. Maybe I'll cut and paste it here.
Before American PharoahSuch an enjoyable read. Now I need to go check the record books, keeping in mind that the tracks are faster today. It's like looking at old baseball records from a time when the ball was softer. I wonder how Man O War compared to Secretariat, the Big Red of my era? If you love horses and racing, you will have fun with this book
One of my favourite books about horse-racing.
It was okay. Didn't realize it was a young reader series until I got into it. But since I didn't know anything about Man O' War, I learned from it and googled more information.
Good Farley story.Have not read one in years but it was like no time had passed. Enjoyed but not as much as earlier.
In the beginning when Danny is talking to the young boy, he doesn't say anything about his personal connection to Man O' War but when he gets to the race, everyone already knows who he is.
The book was great because it wasn't just a classic book about a racehorse that lost his first race and then climbed to the top of he racing stakes and then won the Kentucky Derby.
Man O' War didn't even race in the Kentucky Derby like every other famous racehorse.
Farley decided to do a fictional biography in a style borrowed from famous fictional biographer Irving Stone (best known for his Vincent Van Gogh book, Lust for Life (1934)).
The story is told from the point of view of Man o’ War’s groom – not infamous stud groom Will Harbut, but a groom who never existed.Farley begins his book with his own visit to Man o’ War when he was a child.
Despite being a very old stallion with a faded coat, he made a tremendous impression on Farley.
Really hard to put a fictional person into a real-life story like this.
So many great horse stories (real and fictional) are about a horse and his person (Alec/The Black, Secretariat/Penny Tweedy, Seabiscuit/Red Pollard, and even Man o'War and his long-time groom after he went to stud, Will Harbut) but this fictional groom during Man o' War's racing career just didn't cut it for me.
The attachment wasn't there and so many times the POV had to be shifted to the owner or trainer to get a clearer idea of the horse's career.
I think you might have to be a horse geek to enjoy this book (oh good, I am). Farley goes into great detail about the day-to-day care of race horses, which would probably get a bit tedious to those who aren't in to it. I especially liked the descriptions of life in the barn back in the early 1900s. That they went to such great lengths to care for these animals amazes me. Pretty dry read, though. For insight on the race track, I think Laura Hildebrand's Seabiscuit is much better time spent.
I can't help it, I believe Man O'War is one of the greatest Champions to have ever put his hoofs on the race circuit.All the better to read an almost real-life Biography of his life.It is clear from the beginning that Walter Farley is a true fan of Man O'War since you can feel his admiration of this special thoroughbred through the whole book.And I'm totally jealous that Farley was able to see Man O'War in existens. Hopefully, there will be again a racehorse as signular as Man O'War in this century and this time, I will see it.
I like horse stories and I like historical fiction, so this book was pretty much a no-brainer. It did feel a little dry at times. The author tried to liven things up a bit by introducing the character of Danny - Man 'O War's fictional groom - to tell the story, but it still had the feel of regurgitating facts. But it was still fairly interesting and definitely worth a read for any horse lovers out there.
I hesitate to complain about Farley. It's like complaining because the rain makes you wet while it also makes the crops swell. This one, which I never read as a kid, was interesting but so full of statistics it was dry. I thought it suffered from the lumbering plot device of the slavish groom's POV. I learned a lot about the greatest horse ever, but it hurt to do so.
I had forgotten about this book, but when I read it has a child, it had a HUGE effect on me as a budding racing fan. I think this book, more than any other, taught me about the historical world of horse racing- crazy since it's actually a work of fiction, but interwoven with a lot of fact. A lovely book and wonderful memories.
I and think most of the book club would probably give it 2.5 stars. It had some interesting facts but the story that was supposed to be the vehicle to tell those facts was not very good.I'm excited to read a "Kentucky" book since it is about a famous horse. The author also wrote The Black Stallion. This is another new genere or book for our book club.
I read this book when I was young, and I have thought of it many times in the years since. It is not a great literary novel, but it is the story of a great horse. I think it's wonderful that Walter Farley wanted to immortalize Man o' War for the generations who never got to see him. If you know a young person who loves horses, give them this book. They'll thank you.
So . . . I'm a little conflicted on re-reading Walter Farley books, because for the most part, they are toally geared for YA readers.BUT . . . knowing next to nothing about Man 'O War, this WAS an enjoyable read even as an adult.
