https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/49011.The_Bloody_Chamber_and_Other_Stories
Angela Carter reveals the dark heart of the fairy story in these memorably quirky versions.
Although these versions could be described as feminist and anti-patriarchal, such labels are too limiting for the fierce independence of Carter's intelligence.
She is a writer who never shrinks from acknowledging the transformative power of sexual passion--even if the object of that passion be unworthy or evil, even if the passion itself be dark and destructive.
It is her frankness, her clarity and her art--not the adherence to any philosophical position--that make these tales so liberating, so powerful, such flawless examples of craftsmanship and style.
"My father lost me to The Beast at cards." A recent discussion with Konstantin-one of my best friends in Goodreads- prompted me to read this collection a little sooner than I had planned. And it was an utterly fascinating experience. I knew I was going to love it and my expectations were justifiably high. 10 exceptional short stories paying homage to classic fairy tales and especially to Charles Perrault. From ''Bluebeard'' and ''The Beauty and the Beast'' to ''Puss -in- Boots'' and ''The Snow
From ''Bluebeard'' and ''The Beauty and the Beast'' to ''Puss -in- Boots'' and ''The Snow Child'' written in a unique, sensual, dark language.
This is a story based on "Bluebeard", one of my favourite fairy tales because I'm weird and I like it:) Seriously, though, this is a beautiful showcase of Carter's immense talent.
: The second story based on "Beauty and the Beast".
Carter combines the tale of "The Sleeping Beauty", the legend of Elizabeth Bathory and the tale of Dracula to create a story set in the Carpathian region during the turn of the previous century that is nothing short of a masterpiece.
Halloween re-read! Angela Carter is an absolute masterful writer. She takes the basic narrative of fairy tales and infuses them will blood, death and horror. She’s a genius at what she does.She’s a great story-teller. She transports the stories to the confines of modern society and considers real issues such as the representation of women, the limitations of gender and the restrictions of stories themselves.Her prose is captivating, near on enchanting. As soon as I began reading the first story
Halloween re-read!
She transports the stories to the confines of modern society and considers real issues such as the representation of women, the limitations of gender and the restrictions of stories themselves.Her prose is captivating, near on enchanting.
As soon as I began reading the first story in here, I was hooked on her style.
The two have a way of presenting such issues in a remarkably frank way, and better yet the stories themselves, the actual plot rather than the allegories, are immensely entertaining.
She’s a drastically under read writer when you consider her creative talent.
“The Company of Wolves,” for example, provides a point-by-point rebuttal of the myths embedded in the more modern versions of “Little Red Riding Hood.” Interestingly, the earliest versions of the fairy tale were primarily oral and far more risqué.
Further, in the Grimms’ version and its modern variations, Red Riding Hood’s comment at the end of the story demonstrates that she has learned her lesson: “As long as I live, I will never by myself leave the path, to run into the wood, when my mother has forbidden me to do so.” However, the fairy tale’s other messages to young women are more embedded and more destructive: We are easily distracted and disobedient; we are not safe alone in the woods (traveling off the beaten path); we are fairly stupid; we get ourselves in trouble; and we need to be rescued by a man.
(hide spoiler)]The Courtship of Mr LyonPlenty of horror tropes in the opening: a man breaks down somewhere remote, seeks aid at a magnificent Palladian house, where he receives generous, enchanted hospitality from an unseen host: "he felt no fear although he knew by the pervasive atmosphere of a a suspension of reality that he had entered a place of privilege where all the laws of the world he knew need not necessarily apply."As he leaves, he takes a single white rose for his daughter, at which the Beastly owner appears.
Η Χιονάτη πεθαίνει στη μέση του δρόμου απο άγνωστες αιτίες...και μεταλλαγμένο DNA αλλά ο υποτιθέμενος Δούκας πατέρας της αφού ικανοποιήσει το σεξουαλικό του κατάλοιπο στο πτώμα της Χιονάτης ( με εβένινα μαλλιά κάτασπρο δέρμα και ματωμένα χείλη)προσφέρει στη μητριά -που παρακολουθεί την ερωτική σκηνή- τον καρπό του έρωτα του, ένα λουλούδι ποτισμένο μάλλον με σπέρμα και λάσπη.
Η Κάρτερ εκμεταλλεύτηκε στο έπακρο όλη την ελευθερία έκφρασης και φαντασίας που σου δίνει το παραμύθι και προσπάθησε ανεπιτυχώς να φτιάξει ένα μεταλλαγμένο είδος συσχετισμών ανάμεσα σε θύτη και θύμα διατηρώντας όλα τα βασικά στοιχεία του μύθου.
The stories:THE BLOODY CHAMBER.Quite liked this, but mostly because of the ending where the heroine's mum kills Bluebeard and saves her daughter from death.
Only liked the very end of this when the foolish-love-struck heroine plots to save herself and kill the Erl-king, everything else was weird and rubbish.
Another story with a girl causing her grandma's death, this time so she can sex up a werewolf guy.
Yea, didn't like it.There were only two stories (The Bloody Chamber and The Lady of the House of Love) in the collection that I somewhat enjoyed.

After the rigorous pounding that I got while reading The Infernal Desire Machines of Dr Hoffman, I certainly wasn't expecting this almost diffident collection of short stories.Reading the whole collection the sense of Carter's craft is very strong - emphasised by having stories like The Courtship of Mr Lyon and The Tiger's Bride which are variants of the same folktale, or the repetition of the same elements - such as the magical power of virginity in The Lady of the House of Love and The Company of Wolves - although I did wonder what would happen subsequently once the hymen was no longer there.
Exquisite.  His touch both consoles and devastates me; I feel my heart pulse, then wither, naked as a stone on the roaring mattress while the lovely, moony night slides through the window to dapple the flanks of this innocent who makes cages to keep the sweet birds in. Eat me, drink me; thirsty, cankered, goblin-ridden, I go back and back to him to have his fingers strip the tattered skin away and clothe me in his dress of water, this garment that drenches me, its slithering odour, its capacity
Exquisite. 
  His touch both consoles and devastates me; I feel my heart pulse, then wither, naked as a stone on the roaring mattress while the lovely, moony night slides through the window to dapple the flanks of this innocent who makes cages to keep the sweet birds in. Eat me, drink me; thirsty, cankered, goblin-ridden, I go back and back to him to have his fingers strip the tattered skin away and clothe me in his dress of water, this garment that drenches me, its slithering odour, its capacity for drowning.
And yet, look at the society of today, a heterosexually dominated rape culture complete with the most hypocritical set of double standards to ever exist, where every boy is a Casanova and every girl is either an easy slut or a virginal saint.
That's a physical impossibility, didn't you know, since the very word 'virginity' implies that a cock has the power to change the inherent dichotomy of whatever it fucks.
Boys can be virgins too, but the lack of it never seemed to compromise their intrinsic value in the history of cultures worldwide.
Angela Carter made clear, "My intention was not to do 'versions' or, as the American edition of the book said, horribly, 'adult' fairy tales, but to extract the latent content from the traditional stories and to use it as the beginnings of new stories."And she did it using imagery and beautifully poetic and lyrical language to describe inner liberation of social conventions, prejudges and stereotypes that disable us to build strong character, become ourselves and fulfill our potential as women (and men).
In a subtle way, she devours the hypocrisy of traditional male-dominated society view of women as objects, helpless beautiful princesses in submissive passive roles of wives of powerful men.
You may think you already know the stories : here's Snow White, Beauty with her Beast, there Bluebeard, Vampirella and Red Riding Hood, Alice with her looking glass and Figaro / Puss-in-Boots serenading under a balcony.
But what if we take a look at them with our grown up eyes, carrying our no longer innocent baggage of desires and regrets and nightmares?I am so glad I didn't have to read Carter's stories in school, that I am able to appreciate the poetry of her imagery and her daring sense of humor without the pressure to come up with an essay or with a term paper, deconstructing the myths and finding feminist themes in the text.
Verdict: Creepy and atmospheric with a few flaws.Also, I kept thinking of this:Which wins it a few points.The Courtship of Mr. Lyon: 2 stars (original source: Beauty and the Beast)
I wish Carter had pulled a Shrek move instead.Verdict: Boring, but gets kudos for reminding me of one of my favorite childhood shows.The Tiger's Bride: 2.5 stars (original source: Beauty and the Beast)
The ending was refreshing and unexpected, and just a little sad.Verdict: Not perfect, but total lasting power.Plus I kept thinking of this:The Werewolf: 5 stars (original source: Little Red Riding Hood)
And then brought back to earth with the impish, shocking voice of a Puck, who reminds us that these tales are very firmly a part of our deliciously dirty, vulgarly presented reality.These stories will be familiar to adults, but only in the most basic sense.
The title story is a retelling of Bluebeard, "The Courtship of Mr Lyon," a modern Beauty and the Beast, "The Lady in the House of Love," a creepily morbid Sleeping Beauty, several recreations of Little Red Riding Hood, etc.
My particular favorites are the title story, "The Bloody Chamber," and the end of the cycle, "Wolf-Alice".
The Bloody Chamber's indignant statement on a woman's place in fairy tales is very well taken.
The Virgin and the MarquisSeveral things can be inferred from this paragraph:The narrator is a young girl, a teenager, probably immediately (post-)pubescent, a virgin.She is engaged to be married – to a man we later find out is a Marquis (like de Sade), who lives in an enormous castle and is “so rich; so well-born."She is leaving the comfort of life with her mother, perhaps for the first time of any duration.She has caught a train, alone, on the way to meet her fiancé, prior to their wedding (or their wedding night).
3.5/5 stars! Dark, sensual and definitely adult fairytale retellings. Some stories were a bit to cryptic and symbolic for my liking, but there were also some real gems in this collection. My favourite short stories were 'The Bloody Chamber', 'The Erl-King' and 'The Werewolf'. (view spoiler)[Why is Angela Carter so obsessed with the word 'nipple'? :D Hahaha, this honestly annoyed me after a while. The word appeared in literally every story. (hide spoiler)]
That night at the opera comes back to me even now … the white dress; the frail child within it; and the flashing crimson jewels round her throat, bright as arterial blood.The Courtship of Mr. Lyon2 StarsI don’t really have all too much to say about this one; there was some lovely imagery but the story itself was a very standard retelling of The Beauty and The Beast with, perhaps, less of a build-up to the ending than I would have cared for.
I don’t mind when retellings get a little more sexual than their parent fairy tales, however the 'Let’s get nekkid' element of this felt forced and strange.
This book just didn't do it for me and I can say with 100% certainty that I did not like it because of Angela Carter's writing style.
The stories themselves weren't actually that bad and I can see why people would like this book but I couldn't like them or get fully into them because of the writing.
Some of the stories had more lenghty sentences than others and I just really hated it.
I did skip about 3 stories because I just couldn't get into them.
I would not recommend this book and I probably won't be reading another book by Angela Carter.
We knew all these things were there, and they seemed like they had a lot of shadows and maybe some sparkles, and we had a lot to think about.Carter unpacked lots of things, not just fairy tales.
In The Erl-King this lady realizes that the wild man of the woods is going to turn her into a bird and put her in a cage as soon as they're done fucking, and what does she do?
In The Company of Wolves, Riding Hood comes on the wolf after he eats her grandmother and she's like, (view spoiler)[well, are we going to fuck or what?
The wolfsong is the sound of the rending you will suffer, in itself a murdering.As a rule I don't care for folklore. I also maintain a historical aversion to short stories. What a joy it is then to proclaim my love for these macabre tales of hymens, fogged mirrors, and the gasps of lusts and bloodletting. Ms. Carter's tales are fevered variations on nursery rhymes: Bluebeard, Red Riding Hood Lycanthropes and wee wicked Alice dart from the shadows and dazzle the reader.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #17: A Book that You Borrowed or Received as a GiftI'm so sad I didn't like this one! I really, really enjoyed the title story, which was a fantastic blend of spooky and like... sexual, I guess? I feel like those two aspects were featured throughout most of the stories, but I only enjoyed the way it was done in the first story. The stories had beautiful, lyrical writing, but it's not the type of writing that works well for me, personally.
Carnivalesque, lush, vivid, riveting, enchanting, deeply sensual, fascinating, mesmerizing, thought-provoking, ominous, luscious prose, grotesque dark gothic and fantasy imagery, glorious descriptions, feminist spin on old tales, subtle horror undertones... Seriously, how can one not love Carter's stories?
I also agree that she has deliberately made it accessible to analysis – she wants people to be able to understand the questions and challenges she poses about the implicit power dynamic in fairytale and cultural norms."and"On Carter’s beasts with ref to sex, I personally feel that partly she is challenging what Greer characterises as the castration of women under patriarchy – women are objects of desire and have completely passive sexual organs while men feel (forgivably uncontrollable) lust etc.
As I read the reviews of this book, I came to the following conclusion - in popular YA books, girls aren't going after Prince Charming, but Bluebeard, and there was no better example for this than "The Bloody Chamber", the first story in this anthology.Think about it - a man, with several complexes, probably impotent or in possession of some weird blood fetish, purposedly chooses a wife that is both curious and insecure.
Try to put this theory to Edward Cullen, Daniel Grigori and Damen Auguste and tell me if you see the similarities - why do they choose a weak, insecure girl, starving for attention and understanding, if not to make themselves feel better?This is not a book that you can understand in one sitting.
I can't remember if it was in one of Year's Best series, which I proudly own every copy of, or one of their fairy tale books.
I remember unwrapping the book, and my mother asking if I was sure I wanted it because it was in the "woman's section" of the bookstore.
I loved the book so much that I read Carter's other works, that when Burning Your Boats The Collected Short Stories came out in hardcover, I brought it.
If you thought Beast in the Disney movie was more attractive before he became the Prince, you will like these versions."The Company of Wolves" is perhaps the best known story in the collection.
We've all grown up enough to know that what Disney shows us of fairy tales is so far removed from the "real" stories from way back in the day.
The Bloody Chamber is by far the best and the strongest of the collection.
It's also the longest, which I think allowed Carter to flex her mind-muscles and creativity a bit.
I'm greedy.Carter was a fantastic writer, and I love her mind.
This time I knew what to expect, and already knew enough of the stories to know that I would enjoy them and they would be intense and powerful in ways only good fairy tales should be.
Angela Carter wrote stories in a lope and growl that tugs my senses with familiarity, and the edition I read had the small, almost-blurry font that reminded me of the old fairy-tale books I used to check out over and over again as a child.
But these aren't the fairy tales I remember.
Carter uses it in her Erl-king story.
And with that my mind's stomach plummeted with the realization that I would never be able to read these with full appreciation for all the allusions and clever nuances they're undoubtedly full of.

I would never encourage anyone else to write like Angela Carter, because in almost any other hands it would be disastrous.
But she somehow creates this feast of linguistic decadence that’s sensual, dark, dreamy, and sometimes laugh-out-loud funny.
This short story collection was 160 pages of Carter seducing the English language, and the English language fell HARD.
The 10 stories mostly feature fairytale retellings that are as haunting and atmospheric as they are analytical.
Carter asks questions about sexuality, evil, and human nature, and how all these themes are shaped by the very structure of traditional fairytales.
Brilliantly subversive and luxuriously creepy.
