https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/785597.Old_Bones_the_Wonder_Horse
(He is best known for his sketches in Marguerite Henry's books such as King of the Wind: The Story of the Godolphin Arabian.) Pace tells the tale of Exterminator (aka 'Old Bones') one of the best race horses of the early 1900's.
In May of this year (2013) Eliza McGraw did a piece on him for the New York Times Horse Racing Blog & this book is one of her fond memories of him.http://therail.blogs.nytimes.com/2013...He even has a Facebook fan page.https://www.facebook.com/pages/Old-Bo...I guess that says it all.
He's very into horse racing & also liked the book.
This was a cute little book. I would've appreciated it more if I'd read it as a child, because I would have noticed the blatant attempts to emulate Marguerite Henry a lot less, I think. As it is, I'm an adult, and it felt like a pale imitation.I would recommend this for children; for adults who, like me, didn't read this as a kid and therefore lack nostalgia goggles, I would recommend the Thoroughbred Legends book about Exterminator.
Added 1/3/14.Jim of my GR group recommended this story as one of his childhood favorites.
I bought it "used" online and enjoyed it very much.
It's a warmly told story about a real champion horse named "Exterminator", and affectionately called "Old Bones".
It was published in 1955 and is about 94 pages long with enjoyable illustrations.The book won the Dorothy Canfield Fisher Children's Book Award (1957).
I liked it so much that I searched our local library catalog and found another good young adult book by the same author, Mildred Mastin Pace.
The title is: Home is Where the Heart Is (published in 1954; about 191 pages).
I enjoyed that story too.
I read this book when I was a young girl and loved every horse book I could get my hands on. I still remember how admirable this horse's temperament and will were. I think I might read it again!
Having lived in and around Louisville for a few years, and having many friends from that area, I can't not be aware of the Derby and of horse racing culture in general.
So to find this story from when I was a kid and had no idea where Louisville was is delightful; again, the horse phase that didn't die.
This is a great, quick read about a horse who is wonderful and people who believe no matter what--really, I'm surprised someone hasn't snatched it up to make the next Seabiscuit or Secretariat (neither of which I've seen, actually, but I really want to).
It's a cute story about a surprising horse, and who doesn't love amiable winners?
My first book that I fell in love with over 55 years ago. Each year I wrote a book report about Old Bones and I still have the original book.
I MUST reread this. I now remember loving it as a young girl; had forgotten it until I went sleuthing through Goodreads' "recommendations" list.
The story is based on Exterminator, an exemplary race horse that lived from 1915-1945.
And he's got plenty of heart in that big ramshackle body of his".Bones only had two people that believed in him going into his first race, his trainer and his soon to be hired stable boy.
People who didn't really know him are Bones' friends.
He shows different levels of friendship in the story.
He remembers people who were nice to him and he goes out of his way to say hello when he sees them again.The story has good times and bad times in Bones's life.
Old Horse uses to be the best horse racer. He Came to a race to win it. Fast and steady breath and after the race. Won hundred of the races before retirement.
This book is an indelible part of my girlhood, when horses symbolized freedom, independence and grace under pressure.
Great story of Exterminator, a horse also known as Wonder bones. Readers follow along as Old bones surprises everyone and comes out a winner.
Interesting true story of "Exterminator" the Kentucky Derby winning horse.
Just because "Old Bones" was a race horse in the early 1900's doesn't mean that he shouldn't have books written about him just like the modern day racehorses do...
He continued to race until he was 9 years old way long after most are retired at ages of 2 and 3.
If you can find a copy of his book (as it was printed in the 50's) it is a good one for any age person interested in reading about a race horse that believed in himself and those that supported him through the years.
This was one of the most beloved books of my childhood.
I think I stole a copy from my fourth grade class library (although I placed four or five of my old books out of guilt.) I either stole it or managed to convince my blood-sucking harridan of a teacher to manage a trade of my four books for one battered paperback.
However, in recent years I bought a more factual and less sentimental book on Exterminator (Old Bones) and this story suffered in comparison.
Even though the story is not entirely true, it's still enchanting.
And Exterminator really was the surprise winner of the 1918 Kentucky Derby.
That part (a main part) was true!
A sweet kids book that tells the true story of Exterminator.
He was a rather gangly looking horse and no one really thought much of him.
This is Exterminator's rags to riches story.The story has been simplified for children and some details are changed to highlight the drama of his life, but it rings true in spirit.While suitable for any child that loves horses, it is really geared towards the younger side of those reading chapter books.
Man O War, who ran at the same time as Exterminator, has a wonderful book written about him by Walter Farley, but if that book is above the reading level of your child, this would be excellent to tide the child over.
I received the book for free through Goodreads First Reads.
I liked the story.
I thought it might be more factual, and a lot of the details were just drawn over, but the gist of the story was good.
If this is based on the real horse, then I would have liked the details all the way through...a timeline of events and life and death would have been informative.
How old was he when he died?
All things I was hoping to read, but were not included.
A good read for kids, but not complete is you need the whole story.
This is a children's book, and a quick read, but nonetheless a charmer.
When I was reading Seabiscuit, by Laura Hillenbrand, my wife told me about this book.
It was one of her favorite childhood books, and I can see why.
It is a fictionalized story of the great, but gangly thoroughbred racehorse, Exterminator, who took the racing world completely by surprise in the early part of the twentieth century.
And for good reason.
What a fantastic horse, and a well told story by Mildred Pace.
That's definitely going on my reading list!
Other than Charlotte's Web, this was my very favorite book as a child.
I think I read it five or six times, beginning in third grade.
Obviously, I was a horse-crazy little girl!
I happened to find a copy in the book sale room operated by the Friends of the Library in our local library.
I enjoyed reading it as an adult just as much as I did when I was young.
It is based on the life of a real race horse and is a well-written animal story.
I am so happy I now have a copy that I can reread whenever the mood strikes.
What ages would I recommend it too? Six and up. Length? An evening to read.Characters? Memorable, several characters.Setting? Real World, 1915 - 1945.Written approximately? 1955.Does the story leave questions in the readers mind? Ready to read more.Any issues the author (or a more recent publisher) should cover? No.Short storyline: A young colt goes from an exercise colt to the racer he wants to be.Notes for the reader: Reasonably well written. Leaves out a few parts the reader might want to know.
I read this book as a kid and love love loved it. It’s basically the 100-page version of Seabiscuit, but about the racehorse Exterminator who raced in the 19-teens. It’s a really quick read, and after I read Seabiscuit I decided to pull this out and see how much of the story I remembered correctly. It’s charming, and definitely for a young reader (elementary school probably), but I loved it anyway.
A wonderful book - read it when I was about eight. The prose is clear but not overly simple, young readers can relate to the stable boy, and the ugly-duckling underdog-to-champion tale is actually true. I have a paper copy with the cover depicted above. (I did NOT like the name change to the uninspired "Kentucky Derby Champion." Exterminator was more than a Kentucky Derby winner - he was one of the all-time great horses - truly a "wonder horse.")
This was one of many horse related books that I read during elementary school. It's the mostly true account of a real race horse, Exterminator. I still own a copy of it, rather dogeared and a few pages torn, but mine all the same. It's a great read for 3rd to 6th graders--I actually read it when I was about 8-9 as I recall.
I love this book. I have had it since I was a little child when my father would read it to me before bed. It's a story of a racing horse that everyone thought couldn't cut it in the big leagues. Old Bones isn't a very pretty horse but he has the heart of a champion.It's about facing challenges and doing the best you can do even though nobody has faith in you.
This is a cute little book Carrie told me I should read about a race horse and his perspective on life. Old Bones was never expected to amount to much, but as Exterminator he willingly and eagerly took over the track when given a chance. Anyone who likes animals and/or horses would like this cute little piece.
This is the story of the great horse Exterminator, affectionately known as Old Bones. An unknown in 1918, he won the Kentucky Derby. He went on to become the top winner of cup races and, many claim, the greatest thoroughbred ever developed in this country. Retired in 1924 at the age of nine, when he pulled up lame in his 100th race.
I found this in the throw-away pile at my school and rescued it. I'm not usually a horse book person, but while my 7th-graders were taking their exams, it gave me something to do. I thoroughly enjoyed it. It personifies the horse from page one. It tells of his beginnings and overcoming prejudices from the racing community and even his owner and his surprise win at the Kentucky Derby.
Short children's book about Exterminator, a famous American race horse from the early part of the 20th century. Not a lot of detail is included, and the horse is given emotions and thoughts that we couldn't possibly know if he had. Still it's a cute little book.
Thanks to a co-worker who lent me this book, I learned the heartwarming story of Exterminator, aka Old Bones, an unknown horse who won the Kentucky Derby in 1918 and went on to become a racing champion. Delightful!
When I was about twelve to fourteen, I read my copy of this book to rags. It is that good. This is the story of the racehorse Exterminator, who looked like a bag of bones, but turned out to be one of America's greatest race horses.
The black stallion books introduced me to horse stories and this book expanded that interest to include non-fiction. A slight fictionalization of a true story that does a great job of drawing a reader in and capturing their interest.
