https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/107933.The_Keeper_of_the_Bees
Maybe that’s why it’s so easy to identify with them, for everyone I know who’s taken my suggestion and read Gene Stratton-Porter, and most especially, The Keeper of the Bees, just falls in love with the book and wants more from this very special author.The Keeper of the Bees is Stratton-Porter’s last novel and is set in 1920s California, the state she adopted as her home.
(It’s not a spoiler to reveal that Jamie does return to health and wholeness; you only have to read two or three pages of this wonderful book to see how very life affirming it is.)There’s nothing about The Keeper of the Bees that isn’t just plain, old-fashioned wonderful.
This is an incredibly beautiful book.
The lead character, Jamie, is one of the noblest specimens of manhood that I have ever encountered in all literature.
"virtue is venerable as nothing else in this world is." (from East of Eden).Having read and loved the Gene Stratton-Porter books that I could get my hands on since my early teen years, I was astounded at how different this book is from her other novels.
I wish that all men would read this book, for through its beauty it teaches the art of manhood.
Captivating, charming, sweet, humorous, heart warming; that is only the tip of what this story was about. I am so, so glad I read it!
I remember loving this book when I read it almost 20 years ago.
The story of a man coming back from the war in search of healing for body and soul touched me deeply.
But when I read it this time, I was put off by some of the sentimental dialogue and unlikely situations.
It all comes out okay in the end, but, in a sense, the reader feels the same frustration at having been mislead along with Jamie.
It's what kept me from loving the story the second time around.
This time through I'm in a completely different place in life and appreciate so much more the simple messages in the book.This is the story of Jamie MacFarlane, a young Scotsman, who has served in World War I and received a shrapnel wound in his chest, a wound that will not heal.
Instead, Jamie walks away from the hospital, determined to face the end of his life on his own terms.
But rather than death, Jamie finds a home, friends, eventual healing, and even love.As always, Gene Stratton-Porter imbues the writing with her great appreciation and understanding of nature and its astounding beauty.
Argh.Positives: the story was interesting enough (barely) that I kept a-going to the end of the book.
Maybe I need to get rid of that S on the end of Positives.Negatives: This story was so moralistic and preachy I almost couldn't handle it.
I stuck with it page after page just to read what I'd already surmised.It is a sort of love story; but as in so many of the oldish books, love isn't based on any real knowledge of character or deed, it's all based on "Boy isn't she pretty, and she smells like sand verbena!" and guesses about what sort of woman she must be.
This is an older book, 1929 approximately, and in ways it shows--sentimental, religious, delivered with an intrusive third-person narrator--but I love it for all it is. It's a smart book full of insights on our (humans) relationship to nature and the self, community and the individual. It's cool.
When I was reading Gene Stratton-Porter's THE KEEPER OF THE BEES, one of our teens was in the midst of disheartening rebellion; it was a terribly stressful time for many reasons.
During the time I was reading this book, we saw a swarm of bees make a nest in our backyard.
A dear beekeeper, a man of eighty-one years, came to our home and let me help him move those bees into a hive.
The skill and kindness of the beekeeper took me back to those days when my dad let me help him build things and make repairs around the house.
Absolutely beautiful. My most favorite GSP. Exciting, romantic and totally adorable.
I love the old, eloquent writing. I love the depth and consistency and integrity of the characters. I love the romance. I love the beauty and the truth in it. It was my kind of book :).
Long-winded, old-fashioned, preachy nonsense. Gee, maybe that's too harsh. Once you strip away all the descriptions of flowers (Gene Stratton-Porter was totally into nature), meal plans (which are a hoot), and God stuff, you're left with a sweet little story about a wounded WWI veteran finding hope again.This was recommended to me by a lady who thought it was the best book she'd ever read. Honestly, I'd take the Bible over this any day--more sex, violence, gore, plot, fewer flowers, better food, and it isn't near as preachy...or as sickenly sweet.
This book is extraordinary. It uplifts the human soul with all that is true, pure and good in this world. It was wonderful to read a story with so much Divine Viewpoint. It reminds us that we are fragile and easily corruptible without the Lord; and for the main character, Jamie, depending on the Lord was the greatest lesson he ever learned.
Love!! I'm not going to say how many hours I spent over the weekend trying to finish. If my boys grow up to be men like Jamie, I will be so proud. I can't recommend it highly enough!
Another fabulous book by Gene Stratton-Porter. The phrases used in this book make me smile.
This took me some time to get into, but once I did I enjoyed the sweet story and descriptions of life in California a long time ago!
What a beautiful story! Oh if only I could raise my sons to be like Jamie!
This book was truly beautiful and called me to think on beautiful things-love, nobility, loyalty, nature, friendship, and sacrifice. At the heart of it was the drumbeat of God as creator. What a simply lovely story. I walk away from it with a new respect for bees, brilliant images of blue flowers, a burning desire to smell sand verbena, a longing for greater simplicity in my days, and an appreciation for the many varied gifts God has given. I feel refreshed.
Keeper of the Bees was at times deliciously entertaining and at other moments really bizarre.
I am mentioning this because I don't know if later editions had any changes made to the content.The story started out after WWI when Jamie McFarlane, a soldier and wounded vet, overheard a group of doctors discussing his medical condition.
A place that was known for active Tuberculosis cases, a condition in those days that was the beginning of the end.Raised in a Scottish Presbyterian household he lost his faith while overseas.
Faith and Godliness leap from the pages the longer you read about the characters.
I keep telling myself that they will soon be on my list, but since I just joined yet another book club that meets here in my town, making that two here, and then finding this wonderful website and seeing more that I want to read I am not sure.
Oh, so little time.But for those that want a "clean read" and who love nature, these books are wonderful.I also began reading them at a time in my teen years when I had a great interest in learning about mountain people (and still do) and had a librarian that knew where to send me in the library and who also showed me books.
What a beautifully written book! It sparked all of these feelings in me as it called me to think on what is lovely, good, and true. I've yet to google sand verbena; but I totally am going to and, I might even sketch a picture of it once I see it. Starting on another of her books as soon as I finish this review.
This book is like a Hallmark movie.
An unlikely friendship and deep affection grow between a weary stranger in need of a home, and the one child who can remind him of life's simple joys.
The caricatures of bad guys get what's coming to them.
The good guys are wrestling with the bad things that happen in life, and remind us often that God has it in hand as long as you follow his law.
If you like Hallmark movies, you will probably like this.
If you like the Feel Good Movie of the Weekend, escape into this one.
This was my first Gene Stratton-Porter book. At first it kind of took my off guard. It wasn't what I was expected. It is one of the best books! I love the parallel drawn between the main characters ailing body and his ailing soul. When he begans to heal his body and soul he does it through simple faith and gratitude. I like that his relationship is with nothing flowery, just simple and sincere. I wish more books could portray love of God with such peace and gentleness.
Worth reading for its portrait of coastal Los Angeles before it was so built up. It is portrayed as a virtual paradise. Interesting characters, but the story is somewhat dated in style and there is some anti-Japanese sentiment (probably due to the time period in which it was written, circa WW II).
My favorite Stratton-Porter book so far. I loved the characters in this book, but also enjoyed the setting since I am a garden lover. Great story!
Be prepared to fall in love with Jamie and want him for a next door neighbor is all I have to say.
I thought this book was very well written.
Jamie is the main character.
He is a wounded WW1 veteran.
He was unsuccessfully treated at a veterans hospital.
One day he spontaneously decides to leave the hospital and embark on a great adventure.
He culminates his journey at the Bee Masters home.
There lies in for him many unexpected twists and turns.
This book is beautifully written in an old fashioned way.
It was written in 1929.
The story is beautifully crafted and has an element of the author's love of nature.
I enjoyed this story about a simple man with an abundance of integrity.
Best of Stratton-PorterKeeper of the Bees is the best of Stratton Porter’s books - more depth and complexity. Most of her novels are a combination of compelling stories and descriptions of nature that are both accurate and poetic. I confess to skimming through a lot of the flower stuff but the bee parts were fascinating. The story lines are a bit like rural versions of Horatio Alger novels where a poor young person rises in stature through hard work and honest good character...but this one has an interesting twist. Highly recommended.
This is a book written and set in the early 1920's. There is a lot moralizing which I'm fine with--the warnings are actually sound in my book! I loved the nod to gender inequality with the Little Scout not wanting to be labeled because of the limitations that could cause. There were plenty of twists which when done well (and they were done well), I always enjoy. I read this for my book group. This was one of those books I wouldn't have read otherwise. I like that book group makes me expand my horizons.
A. unique story about a severely injured WWI vet, and first generation American, who returns home an orphan & consequently left at the mercy of an unscrupulous government. Disabled in mind, soul, and body he remembers the God of his youth & calls out for help. Thus begins a journey, an odyssey, that weaves through the lives of a widow, a widower, a unique child, and a patriot. Laced with time-tested truisms and brilliant depictions of a Pacific west garden this book is a gentle, captivating read with plenty of action and the happy ending we all seek.
I actually loved this book. I had a bit of a plan towards the beginning about what I thought would happen, and it did not happen at all! It was unpredictable, which I really enjoyed. Usually I can tell exactly what is going to happen, so that makes it a bit harder to read new books, but this one is really a great one. I highly recommend this for anyone interested in reading; you will not be disappointed!
