https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/403673.The_Kidnapping_of_Christina_Lattimore
I picked up this book because it had an award on the front.
Saying that: I figured out what was going to happen about 1/4 of the way through the book- and then after 1/2 the way through I kept skipping ahead- so I just stopped reading it.
I think the reason I couldn't quite get through it is because the author is a 70 something year old woman who is trying to sound like a teenager- she just doesn't capture the emotions, immaturity, insecurities, cares and vernacular of an actual teenager.
I just don't like that word.
*I'm trying to write something for every book I read this year so I'm going back and writing at least a sentence for each book I read** This was stupid lol. I remember this being a favorite of mine way back in like the 7th grade so I thought I would reread it. Boy....my reading tastes have certainly evolved...This book was just extremely and just utterly stupid.
Wilson Mather-GlassMs. RomaniukReading/L.A. Book Review 516 November 2010The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore:When Proving your Innocence Isn’t as Easy as it Looks  It’s quite hard to admit that someone you know could be a criminal. Christina Lattimore, a teenage girl living in Houston, is put in this situation when she realizes that more than one person she’s known for her whole life could’ve been involved in an act that could put them a way for a good amount of time. This act involved kidnapp
Wilson Mather-GlassMs. RomaniukReading/L.A. Book Review 516 November 2010The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore:When Proving your Innocence Isn’t as Easy as it Looks 	It’s quite hard to admit that someone you know could be a criminal.
The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore is a suspenseful book because each chapter leaves you with a question, there is always an unsolved clue, and you gradually gain knowledge from each character.
The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore is a suspenseful book because each chapter leaves you with a question, there is always an unsolved clue, and you gradually gain knowledge from each character.
Next, this book keeps you on your toes with all the suspense.
The last reason this is the perfect mystery book is that it all connects.
Her family thinks she thought up the kidnapping to get money This story gives a whole other meaning to the term “the plot thickens”.
While reading it, the reader constantly wonders what would happen next.
“The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore “ is the perfect mystery book because it all connects.
The reader can connect all the clues together at the end of the book.
“The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore” is the perfect mystery book.
The conflict is that Christina Lattimore gets kidnapped by zack and Loretta then they try to frame her for making it seem like a kidnapping so now she has to prove her innocence.
I didn't really have any complications with the book, it was pretty clear about everything.I liked a lot of things about the book.
The main thing that I liked was that it is in first person.
This helped me understand what was going on in Christina's mind while all this is happening and see things from her view.
If I could, I would read this book again.
If you like suspensful stories;then I would recommend the book The Kidnapping of Cristina Lattimore. The author Loan Lowery Nixon uses vary good word choises that makes the book more interesting. This book is about a teenager named Cristabel Lattimore, but goes by the name Cristina.Cristina is headed to college in Europe,but before she leaves she gets kidnapped.Will she ever see her parents again?
In my opinion I did not enjoy this book because it was very slow and it took a long time to get into the action. I wouldn't recommend this to anyone who likes action, but if you are patient and like mystery than this would be a good book for you.
This is one of those books that completely surprised me negatively. -_-
I picked up this book some time ago and chose it for a quick read, (since it was a YA Mystery), but I was not all that thrilled with this story at all.
A girl gets kidnapped, then she is saved, but everyone thinks she had a hand it.
I did not feel like they had much depth, or really a story behind their characters, kind of one dimensional.
It was really all kind of sub par for me and I really just wanted so much more to the story.
Now I know that's a little harsh but the acting (the characters conversations) is so horrible it's like one of those low budget cut films.
Now I know some budget cut films can be funny and blah but this book wasn't even close to being funny it was just bad.
There wasn't even one character that stayed in throughout the whole book.
(Lorna) her best friend had some parts in the beginning and then a little in the middle.
(Cristabel) was one of the characters that kind of stayed throughout the whole book but didn't show her face a lot.
It's a YA book so I'm not going to be too critical of it.
The premise of the book seemed interesting enough and it sounded suspenseful...and it was to a lesser extent than I had thought.
I could figure it out long before it happened.
The ending was a little disappointing and Christina more or less shrugged the entire event off.
It's not a bad book at all.
This author has written 130 YA books and is the only 4 time winner of the Edgar Allan Poe Award for Best Young Adult Mystery.
I believe the main problem was I'm not 15 years old.
3.5 stars.
My mother forced me to buy a book to read over the summer, but I ended up dealing with things more important than reading, so I finally decided to read it this weekend when I found it in my room.
Her grandmother pays and gets her free, but when Christina gets back to her life, her family doesn't believe that she was kidnapped- they think she planned out a whole act in order to retrieve money the needed for a trip to France.
Christina solves her whole own mystery with the help of her friend Kelly and ends up proving herself to her family.
I think I will never be confident enough to pick up another mystery/thriller...
Do you want to know why you're here?he asked me"The genre of my book is Fiction."Why me?".
The conflict of the story is that Christina has been kidnapped.
I believe that the type of conflict is person vs person because Jack is one of the suspects that made of kidnapped Christina.
EVERY chapter was suspense and it was fun trying to solve the mystery.The ending was lame because all the intensity was lost in the last chapter.I believe you should read it but I would of wanted the conclusion to be more intense.This books or people who live mysterious detective stories.
It beggaining of the book I have to say it was slow but like in page 5 you can feel the tension between the the main character Christina(chris)and Zack.
Chris gets in her car and heads to Lorns house to find that someone is following her.
as shes on her way home the car is following her agin.She gets out of her car and head to the door and its pich black.
She trys to open the door come her house to find that a guy is getting out of the car and to her.
READ THIS BOOK!!
The plot was predictable at times, but was still entertaining and had an interesting spin on classic kidnapping stories.The biggest issue I had was with the characters.
Christina's best friend was a bit of a Mary Sue, and a few characters added nothing to the story.
There were only two characters I really liked in the entire story.
I would suggest this book to a reader who likes interesting plots and doesn't mind shallow characters.
If you read a lot of mystery I would probably suggest something else since the mystery aspect of the story isn't emphasized/thought out as much.
Them make it look like Christina is involved and planned her own kidnapping.
So she decides to prove her own innocence.I thought this book was ok.
This was one of my author presentation books, and I had chosen this book because it had won a few awards.
Unfortunately, I was a disappointed by the lack of depth of the book.
It was basically what you see is what you get kind of books.
I think this book is for teens between 13-18, but it is more of a fun read book than something you will take something out of.
I really liked this book!
I was at the book store one time, and I saw the title and cover and the section it was under, and it looked pretty alright.
Then I read the back, and that's when it caught my attention, it looked like a good book to read so I bought it.What I really liked about this book was that it has some mystery in it, and some problems to deal with.
I can't really explain it in words, but it was a really good book!
Fun, fast-paced mystery! The main character's voice was a little old-fashioned sometimes. She would say things like, "Why, Mother!" But it wasn't so annoying that it got in the way of the story. I would definitely read more of this author's books.
Also having been a teen in the 1990's, I read many young adult novels right on par with this one.
It was such a different time and these older novels don't have much in common with young adult novels today.
For instance, is the book well written for the time and for the intended age group of that time?
I never judge children's books like I judge young adult or adult.
As an adult reading this, yes it was simplistic - but in a way that you would expect young adult novels to be back then.
It is well written for a young adult novel from 1979.
Lorna, Christina's best friend, was trying to find ways for her to raise enough money to go on the trip, they normally always just went to a hamburger place in town.
This book is very good and kept me wanting to read more every time I'd stop.The author did a good job of making the kidnapping sound like it could be anyone.
I also wish they would have given the readers more of what her parents and friends were thinking when they found out that Christina was kidnapped and what they did to try to find her.
I liked the main character, Christina, since she did not act too scared like others would she had a more confident personality.
I liked how she tried to escape, and how she used her head when it came to trying to escape, so she wouldn’t get hurt.
When it came to the kidnappers I really did not like them, and it made me angry when the cops showed up and they tried to get out of the whole situation.
I also liked Kelly her friend when he believed her and was going to try his best to help her.
The scheme that the perpetrators prepared is nearly foolproof and she becomes her own detective when she has more to prove than expected.The genre is suspense/mystery but is more a novel for teens or young adult because of the simple text and reading level.
I didn’t agree with the characters Bryan and Grace Lattimore, Christina's parents, as they were both the stereotypical rich white parents that showed little trust and interest in other people and events.
The theme would be to trust your instincts and that you fight for what you believe in, which applies while reading, the novel appeals more to emotion rather than logic.
That all changes once she gets into an argument with her grandmother, which then spirals into her kidnapping.
Once rescued, she's pushed into the spotlight and everyone believes that the kidnapping was her doing.
You then go along with Christina on her investigation to prove her innocence and learn the shocking truth behind her kidnapper(s).
I liked this story so much due to its ability to keep you so intrigued and guessing along to find clues or suspects.
I also liked how we were able to see into the mind of Christina and her thinking along the case.
This book is horribly written to earn an award or to be written by a respected author.
It sounds like a sixth grader wrote a story with a good, UNDEVELOPED plot.
There needs to be more plot development, character development, and big changes in how it's written.
The writing style was of Neil Gaiman's, Coraline, the story goes very fast, but unlike Coraline, it's boring, which also makes it slow.
It was terribly written, but you can still learn things from this book.
The plot idea overall wasn't bad and I actually liked the vibe of the book and Christina.
The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore is definitely a 5 star book.
Christina Lattimore is likable main character, and the reader follows as she spends chapters two through eight indignant and helpless.
Suddenly she's fighting for her life against a couple of kidnappers who are planning to hold her ransom for two hundred and fifty thousand dollars.Yet the story doesn't end with Christina's rescue.
From the terror of her kidnapping ordeal to the soul-crushing pain of her family's lack of faith in her, Christina is determined to prove her innocence and bring the kidnappers to justice.Highly suggest reading this book!!!
The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore is about a girl with a wealthy family, who doesn't give her the money to go on a trip to France due to religious beliefs.
She ends up getting kidnapped and the kidnappers make her family pay a ransom to set her free.
Her family suspects that she schemed the whole thing to get the money to go on the trip, so she spends the rest of the book proving her innocence.
It sounds suspenseful on the outside, but on the inside, I caught myself figuring it out way before it even happened.
Christina has been kidnapped and she is being held for ransom.
When she is found, her parents and wealthy grandmother do not believe her.
Christina knows her kidnappers - one works at a burger joint the other is his wife.
There is a third member of the party who isn’t disclosed until the end.It’s surprising that her grandmother believe Christina staged her own kidnapping - and her family plays along with it.
Also the entrance of Kelly and his involvement is purposefully suspicious.
The very end - when Christina solves the case and refuses her grandmother’s trust fund - is strong!
I lost brain cells after the 500th "Oh, Kelly". I hated the MC. The story itself was unbelievable. Not holy whoa this is amazing unbelievable, but really? I don't think that's how that works. Though, that may be because this was written in 1979 and 2018 police processes work very differently. Or maybe Texas was highly lax while I'm from NY. I don't know. I spent the majority of this book rolling my eyes either at how things panned out or the stupid melodrama of Christina Lattimore and the stupid conversations that I can't quite imagine anyone having.
Teen Christina Lattimore's family has a business and is well off.
She desperately wants to go on a high school trip but her family is not willing to foot the bill.
She has a difficult encounter where she tries to convince her grandmother to take money from her trust fund to enable her trip.
Shortly after, she is kidnapped.
The ransom is paid but when she gets home, her family and friends don't believe she was kidnapped.
She has to convince her family and friends that she truly was kidnapped and that it wasn't an attempt to get money for the trip.
