https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/550202.S_is_for_Space
The title is a misnomer, as most of its stories are actually firmly earthbound, but it's a collection which includes many of my old favorites, and I'm glad I chose it.It's peculiar to inhabit a future where there's lots of cigarette smoking going on, where the atomic bomb is a bigger worry than global warming or economic catastrophe, and where seemingly most women are housewives.
However, we've still got copies of Dandelion Wine, Fahrenheit 451, and Something Wicked This Way Comes on our shelves (the latter two not even crumbling), so I may revisit Bradbury again soon.
Reading Lianne's review, as well as having read and liked "Fahrenheit 451," I was pretty sure this would be a good match for me.It's important to remember that this collection of short stories was published in 1966.
So in many of the stories, we read of a Mars that is a short journey away, a planet with breathable air, flowing rivers, and fertile soil for flower beds and crops.
Even though we now have photos of the surface of Mars showing a much different picture, it was still fun to imagine it otherwise.There's a great variety among the stories in this collection.
I wondered if it was because of when the stories were written, in the '40s and '50s and the influence of the War, but looking back at Rocket the stories there were from about the same time.Technically these stories are great, perhaps not all Bradbury at his best but stories like Time in Thy Flight (about a school trip in a time machine), The Million-Year Picnic (a family escape Earth for Mars just before the atomic war breaks out) and The Smile (a boy is touched by art in a post-apocalyptic future) show Bradbury's talent in full swing but are also all, in their own way, somewhat dystopian.Overall, these are more cautionary tales and backward-looking fables than the exciting, forward-looking Rocket.
Some stories were gripping, some eerie, some poetic; tales of death and life, rockets and time machines, witches who had lost powers and vampires who walked in the sun, Mars and Earth, walking for pleasure and flying for fun, Jesus on others planets and a woman hidden in the ground. Not Bradbury at his best, but authentic Bradbury.
DO NOT READ THIS BOOK. I repeat: do not read it. Just because Bradbury wrote it, doesn't mean that it will be as great as Fahrenheit 451. It is only my opinion after all, but I suffered through every short story and I really dreaded having to read another one. A little bit of a disappointment, Ray.

Ray Bradbury ist einer der großen Autoren der SF, der mit "Fahrenheit 451" und "Die Mars-Chroniken" zwei Klassiker des Genres geschrieben hat.
Nun bringt der Knaur-Verlag seine, im Jahre 1966 zusammengestellte, Kurzgeschichtensammlung, zum ersten Mal in der deutschen Orginalzusammenstellung heraus.Er bedient mit seinen 16 Geschichten ein breites Spektrum abwechslungsreicher Phantastik-Stories, die auch handwerklich herausragend geschrieben wurden.
Auf jeden Fall fällt auf, dass diese Ikone der amerikanischen Literatur großen Spaß an der spekulativen Thematik hatte und zusammen, mit seinem feinen, subtilen Humor gute und nachdenkenswerte Geschichten der kurzen Form in diesem Band zuwege brachte.Auf alle Fälle absolut empfehlenswert...
second read - 5 May 2003 - **** I knew that I read this book once before a long long time ago, because all of the stories in it were just slightly familiar during my re-read this past week. A few of the stories are actually taken from of The Martian Chronicles or Dandelion Wine, and so those were very familiar. All in all though, this is an enjoyable collection of some favorite Bradbury stories. first read - June 1971 - estimated date
The second of these is far superior, and may be the best story in the collection."Time in Their Flight" has a certain treacly nostalgia Bradbury is known for.
It is interesting to note that reality came true before the dates in his fantasy.If someone wants to read just the highlights, I recommend "Pillar of Fire" (with some reservations), "The Screaming Woman", "Dark They Were, and Golden-Eyed," "The Trolley," and "The Flying Machine." These five stories are first-rate.
Ray Bradbury is a master of atmosphere, and this book of short stories is no exception to his evocative, provocative style.This collection is not as thematic as most of his books that I have read, as he says in the introduction, expressing every side of his enthusiastic, empathic nature.
If it weren't for the fact that Bradbury & me go way back, and I trust him, I would have put the book away when I realized I was reading a vampire story, my first.
I loved this book.
I didn't know when I bought it that it was a collection of short stories, but I was so glad when I found out.
Each story is bizarre in its own way and makes a statement about our culture and rituals, how we perceive (or ignore) things and people, or what we deem important in our lives.
My favorite was about the man who awoke dead in a future with no dead people and no fear and his plan to turn things upside down.
Even the space adventures, which I'm not usually into, contain gems of relevant truth.
Early Bradbury short stories. Bradbury is a master of mood.
Some of my favorite Bradbury short stories are in this one. Makes me want to get under the covers with a flashlight and stay up all night!
again, awesome, but superfluous, partly because they share the same themes, and partly because they print the same stories in many of his short story collections.
Fucking awesome short stories. Andrew Bond should read this.
This was the book that made me fall in love with science fiction.
This is a review-in-progress, which means that I will review the stories as I read them.I should probably say that I have no real knowledge of Ray Bradbury's writing as I have only read one or two of his shortstories and none of them have (for some reason) made a lasting impression on me. Chrysalis  (24 pages) is the story about a man who is undergoing a strange transformation into... something else. The story mostly follow the three men who takes care of him as he transforms. The story is well-
(24 pages) is the story about a man who is undergoing a strange transformation into...
By the end of this story the author introduces a lot of literary references that I couldn't really connect as I've read nothing of Edgar Alan Poe and Ambrose Pierce.
(11 pages) is a story about alien invasion and one of the most unique that I've ever read.
(9 pages) is a story about a boy (or man) who does not age, at least, not in the same rate like the rest of us.
(10 pages) is (finally) a fantasy story.
A bit of a mixed bag but very positive on the whole. Recurring themes, young protagonists, children versus parents, amusing space invaders and... book burning. This not the brilliant Bradbury you may know but there are many, many signs of what is to come. Some stories are adventurously entertaining but there a lot of disillusionment and irony.
I don't know how to feel about this collection of short-stories. Most of time I just read them and immediately forgot about their content. They didn't give me sci-fi vibes either. In the end you can read it, but you don't miss anything if you pass that one.
A solid SFF that packs a nostalgic punch. Reminds me why Science Fiction and a willing suspension of disbelief are important for a rational understanding of this world, even in today's times.
i enjoyed these stories a lot! they were exciting, and a bit scary sometimes, but very nice to read.
I mean, it's Ray Bradbury. You can't really go wrong. I have always loved his short stories more than his novels, and this is always refreshing to sit down with.
Wirklich klasse!
3.5
Of all of Ray Bradbury's collections, this has to be my favorite. Every story shines, and his gifts as a writer are always on display. Not a bad story in the bunch!
Reading these short stories is like watching old Twilight Zone episodes. They are fun, kind of creepy, and dated. I enjoyed them myself, but they may not be for everybody. There are a few stories, though that I think stand the test of time, my favorites "The Million Year Picnic" and the final stream of consciousness piece about first flights.
I mean, one story deals with a family that takes a rocket to escape nuclear war on Earth and they land and live on Mars; but it’s a Mars where the family lands to take a boat and drive up a river, stopping to go for a swim, and have a picnic.
My God…), kids whose parents either ignore them or never believe them, the dangers of progress/technology/science/nuclear war – but it seems like these themes are developed in such a droll, sludgy, obvious way that there was nothing to really impact the reader, or at least me.
I guess if it opened minds in the 50s, great.
If younger readers get into these, and they have their first experience with scientific wonder and/or nostalgia, great.
Fahrenheit 451 was my first experience of Bradbury and I found it to be a good read; Something Wicked This Way Comes was my second and I found it to be both ridiculous, pretentious and, at times, poorly written.
There's the good, the bad and the worth reading.
The Good: Pillar of Fire, Zero Hour, The Man, The Pedestrian, The Screaming Woman, Dark They Were With Golden EyesThe Bad: Time In Thy Flight, Invisible Boy, Million Year Picnic, Icarus Montgolfier Wright, Hail and Farewell, The TrolleyThe Worth Reading: Chrysalis, Come Into My Cellar, The Smile, The Flying Machine
But, they're short stories, so I didn't lose the point, really.Mostly disappointed.
Some of the stories were good.
When he started talking about rocket technology, the stories came across pretty dated.
So, I like his fantasy stuff more than his SF stuff.
Fantasy doesn't really get "dated", unless it reflects outdated ideas, like racism.Bradbury does a really good job with child characters.
Capturing their innocence/cruelty.One of the stories seemed really badly placed in a book by this title.
It was a nostalgia piece about "The Trolley".
Maybe this it was written in a time when trolleys were more popular, so it was about the future.
While any sci-fi from such a long time ago can seem strange to a modern reader, there is an immortal quality to Bradbury's writing that still resonates and rivets attention.
His characters are emotive and vivid, and the scenes he writes are alive with rich detail.
As a sci-fi writer myself, I consider this kind of work to be extremely important, I hope others pick this up as a means of educating themselves on what this genre should always be.- Fans of Rod Serling's Twilight Zone must read this book.To pick a favorite story from this collection, Pillar of Fire.
