https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/3086160-the-hour-i-first-believed
It truly pains me to give this book only two stars, but after struggling through it, I can't bring myself to give it more.
There are definitely redeeming qualities about this novel, and ultimately I ended up getting something out of it.
But it was so hard to push through, and it was such a disappointment to me after loving his previous two novels.
This book is just SO all over the map, and after awhile it lost me.
Bottom line, I just didn't much care about the characters.
I've read rave reviews of this book, so clearly others do not agree with me.
When an author asks you to go on a 700+ page journey, the trip should be enjoyable and/or the destination should be fulfilling.
Unfortunately, I don't feel that "The Hour I First Believed" really offers either a good trip or a satisfying final destination.
Rather, it is joyless, self-indulgent, and exposition-heavy.
Lamb too often tells rather than shows in this book, and the telling is a little over-done.
Also, the dialogue given to the teen characters and an early chapter written from the POV of the narrator at 8 years old are not only unbelievable, but almost cringe-worthy.
As evidenced in his first two novels, Lamb is a fantastic writer and a superb storyteller.
Unbelievably good. I never thought I'd say that about a book that incorporates Columbine, prison, drug addiction, Hurricane Katrina and troubled youth but it's the truth. I had to stop and sit and think after I finished this long book. After thinking for awhile, I realized that I would always think of Caelum Quirk, the main character and narrator, as a good friend even if he doesn't actually exist.
Lamb does what I most love in a novel; he takes real people and events and fashions a fictional story alongside these very real moments in time.
The catalyst of the story is the Columbine shooting massacre of April 1999 but it also covers marriage disharmony, prescription drug dependence, the Civil War, post traumatic stress, the advent of women's prisons, family history, evacuees of Hurricane Katrina, modern women's prisons, vehicular manslaughter, alcoholism, the war after 9/11 and it's resultant casualties of death and disability.
While some may skip reading the thesis purloined from Caelum’s family history, I loved the historical information it contained.
Yeah, it's kinda like that in some ways.
Know what I mean?This book is about the Columbine High School massacre, Hurricane Katrina, domestic and sexual abuse, adultery, the Iraq War, drug addiction, alcoholism, child abduction, a women's prison, mummified babies, Mark Twain, a miraculous Mary statuette in a Catholic bakery, post traumatic stress disorder, Nikola Tesla, stroke victims, cameos from both of Lamb's previous novels, brain aneurysms, 19th century abolitionism, vehicular manslaughter, enough genealogy to make the Mormon Church drool, and characters named Ulysses and Velvet.
This book is so bad, it's actually kinda good.
The events of that day have far-reaching consequences, and Caelum is forced to retreat back to his hometown farm in Connecticut.There among his family’s heirlooms and childhood memories, Caelum’s ancestors speak to him, and in the process help him come to terms with his identity and history.
It’s said that history often repeats itself, and the ironies of past meeting present, although hard to follow at all times, was skillfully crafted.
It took me about a month to get through this book, and in the meantime had read The Good Soldiers, which touched a lot on PTSD, a common theme throughout this book as well.
Hefty in size and theme, but worth the time and effort.
Because Maureen wants to be close to her father, who’s remarried and lives in Denver -- and who, after Maureen’s mother died, used to sneak into his 11-year-old daughter’s room and masturbate before her…This is among the first of many confounding plot developments in this novel – twists that complicate the narrative, but ultimately distort to little purpose and generate no sympathy for the characters.Previously Caelum and Maureen resided on the Quirk family farm in eastern Connecticut, a two-hundred acre tract that also contains a fifty-acre maximum-security women’s prison.
*SPOILERS*This book is absolutely terrible, but well crafted.
Don't read it, unless you consider gratuitous constant tragedy to be the definition of depth.
Believe me, this is the worst example of the McDeep conceptual space that is so tedious in today's writing and general media.In it, the main character witnesses (I kid you not):ColumbinePTSD in a loved oneVicarious suffering over KatrinaLoss of limb in IraqViolent Suicide/MurderTeen sexual damageDead babies (not abortion -- actual dead babies)Sexual Predation by a parentSexual Intimidation by an authority figureDrunken Vehicular Manslaughter of an honors studentSelf mutilationImprisonment of a loved oneAdulterySudden death of a loved one due to cerebral hemorrhageAn unmarked baby graveyard (no, that's not the dead babies -- this is extra)A gratuitous last SENTENCE statement of "that's the hour I came to believe"Give me a break.Don't read this book unless you're a pathetic little over-spoiled goth girl with a fetish for sad.
IKTMT had an incredibly likeable and human protagonist, Dominick, who was your classic 'tries really hard and sometimes gets it right." He was charming in a disarming sort of way and this sarcasm was endearing and funny.
He is in fact more flawed than 'likeably human' and seems to deserve what he gets.WL chose to have cameo walk ons via previous literary characters that I am sure if you have not read about them did nothing for you, and if you did it was like, dude, give it up.
The author covers a wide range of topics starting with the Civil War, abolitionism, the Columbine horrors, 9/11, lost souls, death, alcoholism, the power of love, and so much more that it's difficult to quantify.
I'm sure this will become an Oprah book and all that jazz, but still, reading a book like this one wonders how an author can do it.
The book is quite ambitious and some might find the Columbine section gratuitous, but as the author says at his Afterword, he wanted to pay tribute to those who lost their lives there.
This was not an easy book to read. For all the effort I put into it, Wally Lamb should have been standing on the last page offering me a sash, a trophy, and large sums of money. It kind of turned into a joke as every night I would tell my husband what the new plotline was. Some of the subjects were: Adultery, Columbine, PTSD, Drug Addiction, Murder, Womens prisons (In great detail), buried corpses (in greater detail) and a paper about civil war times (in RIDICULOUS detail). Not my favorite.
What? I never wrote a review? Maybe I read it before a Goodreads addict.... haha...But this story is page turning.It’s $1.99 Kindle special if you missed it.
I picked up this book with some trepidation: first, I wasn't sure how much I wanted to read about the Columbine shootings, especially since I remember being extremely distraught upon hearing about the whole tragedy and was afraid to revisit that.
Lamb's narrator, Caelum Quirk, is extremely unlikeable, but that's not why I stopped reading.
Twenty pages of a childhood flashback?" I just wanted to get back to the story!Lamb is compared to Dostoevsky in the book flap and by pure volume I can see the similarities.
While I can understand why the reviews of this novel range from hot to cold, I loved it.
I can not think of the last time I read a novel that contained so many current events and issues, all under the same cover.I thought Lamb took a huge risk by weaving fictional characters in with the Columbine tragedy, but it worked.
Not many authors could combine the two with such sensitivity.
I thought his character development absolutely perfect.I do admit that some of the thesis was a bit long and tedious.
But that did not prevent me from giving the novel 5 stars.
When thinking about the book between readings, it was like revisiting acquaintances I was getting to know intimately.
There are twists and turns, history that is revealed and unraveled like the labyrinth that he alludes to in the novel.It's a book that took ten years to write, and these pages contain those ten years.
There are moments of repetition in the story--perhaps needed, in a book this long, and which jumps around this much, but a bit much for certain points.
Overall, a moving and intriguing book.
Ahhh! Don't bother! Too long! Too many plots and characters, and it just drove me crazy. I like this author alot. I've heard him interviewed, and he's a cool guy, and I give him credit for trying to address the Columbine thing, but there were just way too many other stories, and I ended up feeling really unfullfilled after a very, very, long book. Where are the editors these days?
It took Wally Lamb nearly a decade to come up with this book.
A decade!
Lamb takes the major events from the decade: Columbine, Hurricane Katrina, Iraq War, throws them into a literary blender with his leftover women's prison stories, adds a dash of Civil War and slavery, and blends.
Even worse was how he throws in a reference to a character in another one of his books.Lamb gets points for his perfectly executed portrayal of PTSD, and the foolishness of the Iraq war.I hope this was cathartic for him.
Come back to us, Wally!
There are some very powerful aspects to this book: everything from Columbine to life in a women's prison.
I think that's because the events in the first half are dramatized more than the events in the second half.
By this I mean, a lot of the action in the second half isn't experienced by the reader, but events that have already happened are discussed by the characters.I got a little impatient with one catastrophe after another occurring.
Each one didn't receive the in-depth "aftermath" treatment it could have because too soon another catastrophe occurred.There were parts of the book that I found myself skimming, and I never got lost.
Loved it! I love this author. Easiest 750+ page book I've read in a long, long, time. He keeps you interested, jumping from Columbine tragedy, to Katrina tragedy, to mental illness, etc. Lots of twists & turns; you never know what's gonna happen to the poor main character & his wife next.
This is, from start to finish, a novel about the effects of anger, the torrent of destruction that's easily triggered and difficult to repair.Hoping to remake their lives after Maureen's adultery and Caelum's prosecution for assault, they move to Colorado and get jobs at Columbine High School.
This portrayal of a couple dealing with the asymmetrical effects of trauma is Lamb at his best, wholly sympathetic, deeply moving.If only the author had stayed with these ample elements, he would have had a powerful novel about two people determined to care for each other despite unfathomable challenges.
The book is not without merit, and there's no question that Wally Lamb is a gifted writer.
When Lamb stays focused, the effect can be mesmerizing.
And then, of course, there's the fact that Lamb seems to just love to see his words on the page, so there are long nowhere-going diversionary trips along the path that do not advance the story in any recognizable way.
I think this could have been much more effectively done if Lamb had placed that particular story in a novel of its own, told in a more straightforward fashion.
He uses the story of 47 year-old English teacher Caelum Quirk and his wife Maureen as a washline on which to hang discussions on these various topics.
Lamb supplements Caelum's ramblings with email snippets, newspaper headlines, letters, old journal and diary entries, and a lenghty excerpt from a PhD thesis.
While everyone around Caelum deals with life-and-death stakes, he manages to get destructively worked up about his family history - which he spends the second half of the novel unraveling.
The problem, though, especially as the book nears the end, is that Lamb - via Caelum - keeps veering away from the stories.
The thing is that there's material in this book for at least eight different novels:The story of Caelum Quirk, a teacher at Columbine High School at the time of the shootings in April 1999, and his wife Maureen, who also works there as a nurse and who survives the shootings while Caelum is called away by an urgent family business.
I don't know the answers.I only can say that I was moved by the end of the story, and if a novel can make you feel something it means that the message gets through somehow.All in all, a difficult but a humbling experience, maybe not for a five stars rate, but still worth the effort."Beware!
While the main character doesn't go to prison in Connecticut, he barely avoids it after attacking his wife's lover (I don't usually like to give the plot away, but this occurs on pg.
11 of a book that is more than 700 pages long, so it's not really giving anything away.) And his family had been running a women's prison on part of their farm his whole life.
(hide spoiler)] The last two books I read (Orange is the New Black: My Year in a Women's Prison and Defending Jacob) had Connecticut prisons featured in them.
The second half is what weighs more heavily on my reason for giving a 3 star rating.
I actually considered giving it a 2 star rating but I didn't think that would be fair for anyone who plans on reading the book.
I did not find this book fell into all of those categories, only some.Caelum and Maureen Quirk are both teachers at Columbine High School during the tragic events of April 20, 1999.
His extremely flawed point of view.My problems with the book are it's length and inability to find direction in the second part.
I couldn't stop reading during the first half of the book.
This Lamb book was not worth the 10-year wait.I couldn't believe how much he tried to cram into the plot and the poor protagonist's life.
Caleum couldn't have been at Ground Zero on 9/11?
In the after word Lamb talks about how hard he struggled to find something to write about.
It showed.I did however like the cameos made by previous books' characters: Dominick Birdsey and Doloroes.
I like the type of stuff but it certainly added to the feel that this author was, clumsily, wrapping up his career.Also?
The habit Lamb seems to have developed?
Of all of his characters asking questions instead of making declarative sentences?
I wanted to love this book.
I think Wally Lamb is a terrific writer.
I believe that if he had kept the core of his story--a couple with an already shaky marriage trying to grapple with the after-effects of the wife's being a witness to the Columbine murders--it would have been a phenomenal book.
But in my opinion, he threw everything but the kitchen sink into this--forays into the narrator's ancestral history, a doctoral dissertation, other brushes with violence and sadness, random secrets from the past, etc.
It just seemed to complicate what could have been a fantastic book.
However, there's no denying Lamb's ability to tell a stroy.
Finally finished with this eff-ing book. It wasn't bad really. But you'd think in 740 pages of tragic stuff happening I would at least once feel bad for the characters. Instead it was more like "Yup, you had that coming, and that, and that, her too, she had it coming..." Apart from the Columbine massacre there really were no sympathetic victims. I liked the ending but didn't love the book. Still, well-written and ambitious.
Lamb's books usually have complex plots and intertwined bits, but they've been relevant in the previous novels.
When I had to continuously read entire chapters from Janis's thesis essay ABOUT the great-grandmother I almost screamed, "WHY!!" I get that through this "essay" we learn about some significant plot points, but only towards the end of the entire thing, the rest being really boring and pointless.
But it reads more like a rough reflection of all the shit that's happened in our world than an actual relevant novel.
I feel like my friends and I waited forever for this release of this book, and I planned ahead to buy it on its release date.
I didn’t even leave the store before I started reading it.
It started out intense, dramatic and Caelum became a character I was dying to love like Delores or the Birdsey twins.
However after the initial intensity of the columbine incident, the story seemed to deflate and become either over-dramatically predictable or completely just...
I feel like I am betraying Mr. Lamb by complaining, but after such a long wait, I am so disappointed.
