https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/573428.William_Eggleston_s_Guide
I have to say, that for a while ago i started thinking that for exemple street photography and almost all photography only works in Black and white.
Truly, there are photos who work better in Black and White.
But there are also photos which work more fantastically in colour than black and white.
I came to the conclusion, that, when the photo has nothing to say, the one who took it applies a monochrome filter trying to make it more interesting.Returning to Egglestone, he shoots in colour and it is great.
The nice colours contrast with the deserted empty atmosphere.
I know it's weird to say that I "read" a photo book, but I am referring to the introduction written by John Szarkowski.
I love the introductory essay by John Szarkowski, in which he discusses the transition to colour photography (in the art world), and how & why Eggleston succeeded where other photographers failed to find a way of making successful work in colour.Even with that context, though, I still don't love Eggleston. With the exception of a couple of landscapes later in the book that made me hold my breath in awe, I'll still take Stephen Shore any day.
Edizione che riproduce fedelmente (e con stampa economica, ma decente) il libro che accompagnò la storica mostra al MoMA del 1976, vale a dire il momento storico in cui la fotografia a colori venne "sdoganata" in campo artistico. Corpus di immagini potente e importantissimo, in apertura un altrettanto fondamentale e celebre saggio di John Szarkowski in cui si analizza il tema dell'uso "descrittivo" del colore in fotografia, con alcune note particolarmente attente su Eggleston stesso (in particolare, l'aspetto diaristico della sua fotografia).
Eggleston's work is dedicated to showing the beauty, humor and horror that surround us at all times and in all places. Forty-eight images of this viewpoint are captured here. Be sure to check out Walker Evans' Polaroids book - also on my "best of 2002" list.Recommended by Amy
This book flipped my lid, opened my eyes, charmed me, made me turn a rich leafy green with envy, and seeing these printed in your own hands is a plus as opposed to seeing them online.
As a serious photographer from Oklahoma, William Eggleston has always been an inspiring person for me since he has based his career on photographing Mississippi and the South.
My issue with this book is it is too sleight, with only a handful of Eggleston's work.
And, maybe this is just me, but it is kind of irritating that the guy writing the introduction [John Szarkowski] admits right off the bat he's never been to Memphis or northern Mississippi...and he then expounds on Eggleston's work without having any first hand experience with the part of the world Eggleston has devoted his attention on for decades.
Picked by: KristaMost photographers will think choosing Eggleston as a favorite photographer is a little unoriginal, but there's something that keeps me going back to this book from his 1976 MoMA retrospective. On top of the striking photographs, make sure you read the opening essay by John Szarkowski, New York's Museum of Modern Art's then-Directory of Photography. It's one of the best essays on what it means to photograph in a technologically advancing age.
I bought this book thinking it would have comments on each photo by Szarkowski whom I admire absolutely. It turned out to have only a long, albeit brilliant, essay at the beginning. The rest is Eggleston's photos, which, except for a few, don't do much for me. The essay, though, is inspirational.
difficult not to steal from the art library I used to work at
It's been done to death (anyone who's taken more than one photography course in school probably has encountered these arguments, along with the rebuttals, but at the end of the day why not just relax and save the brain work for jobs that need it, not "mental masturbation", and embrace these images, forget the name on the hardcover, forget the textbooks and the myriad online peer-reviewed articles that float behind university passwords and just look and if you don't like, fine, but at this point typing a proper critical essay on Eggleston's work and this book in particular would be a waste of time without payment either by cash or diploma, both unlikely.
I know that I felt that way and bought it sight unseen.
Next time I'll just set the money on fire or hand it to my nearest homeless instead of purchasing anything with Eggleston's name on it.My 11 year old daughter takes more poignant photographs with her GF1 set in B&W mode.
Should I ever meet William, I'll gladly kick him in the nuts, and then thank him for this piece of shit that has wrecked photography for decades.

I didn't get much out of the writing.
I like the photos, but the quality of them in my book (a library copy) is not very good.
These photos have/use(?) a snapshot aesthetic, and Eggleston is known to be the (or at least one of the) first photographers to use color film in a way that the modern art world accepted as fine art.
Black & white was what most fine art photographers used to take "serious" pictures.
I'm still not clear just what the difference is between snapshots and the snapshot aesthetic, but I think it has to do with timing and intuition.
Entiendo que este el libro fue la compañía de una exhibición, y que quizá el contexto de aquella misma nos pintaba un mejor panorama de la obra del artista, sin embargo, siento que queda a deber en el volumen del contenido, en especial si el libro lleva de título la palabra 'guía'. Me acerqué a las publicación por la curiosidad de saber más sobre el artista y su obra y me quedo con una sensación de no haber comprendido bien el arte de Eggleston.
I get Eggleston. "Guide" is a fun read that's good for the occasional creative jolt. It probably deserves more than three stars from me, and I want to give it more, but I just can't. There's better Eggleston stuff out there. And while his style was groundbreaking at the time, many others have carried his ideas further and are coming up with photography far more interesting than what's in "Guides." So, three stars. But three gold foil stars.
I love this collection. I'm not sure there is much more to say. Either you get his work, and appreciate what he did to bring color photography into fine art, or you don't. I'd love to see the larger set of images from which this is taken.
Splendide le foto, buona la riproduzione, e un'introduzione di Szarkowski sulla fotografia come arte ancora attualissima e davvero interessante.
The photos are great explorations of color. What really got me, though, was John Szarkowski's introductory essay. A beautiful piece of writing full of insight.
Boring things really are boring.
Revolucionář barvou, záznam běžného života, výborná práce s odstíny. Škoda horšího tisku a přeintelektualizované předmluvy.
Beautiful.
Loved this!
My #1 favorite photographer.
What good are words? One of the most influencial and beautiful books on photograpy I've ever read.
Jealousy abounds.
Unique views by a unique person. I think it still is groundbraking work.
what a photographer! excellent
Eggleston is one of my most significant inspirations as a photographer.
Classic.
