https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25673180-antidote-to-venom
Then, once the killing has happened, it's slightly like Columbo, as we follow a policeman (Crofts' series detective Inspector French) in his efforts to bring the culprit to justice.
Even though by this point we know whodunit, we don't know exactly how, and there is still a fiendishly complicated riddle to unravel.The book has an intriguing setting, in and around a zoo, and author Crofts did a lot of research to make sure the atmosphere is utterly convincing.
French is an instantly appealing detective and I'd like to see a lot more of him.
Some faulty theories lead to more successful ones, and soon French thinks he's on the right track, doggedly pursuing this case as his reputation---and Scotland Yard's---is on the line.This structure offers a good look at George's existential woes, but as ambitious as the novel is, I'm not sure Crofts' writing is able to make the psychological elements work.
It is fascinating to see him put under the microscope, and I think that's where Antidote to Venom sells the inverted trick---the reader gets a solid feel for George and a good idea of why he turned to crime.
I totally love this series of British Crime Classics....and this one was a cracker. Set in the city of Birmington (I assume it's supposed to be Brum), it's a tale of how love and money are usually at the root of a good old fashioned poisoning. And although we are clear from the outset who the killer is....will they get away with it? Not revealed until the final chapter. Excellent writing style too, I shall read more from Mr Crofts.
The author provide us with a pretty unconventional murder mystery though - we know who the murderers are up front, for example, as he is our narrator for the first half of the book.
Instead of whodunit, this is a quest for howdidit and willtheygetawaywithit?The pace of the book is broken half way through with the arrival of Inspector French of the Yard, and the tone changes from the murderer's trying to get away with it and figure out what happened to the more methodical - and traditional - murder mystery.
We know who did it, but French is trying to figure it out - and consequently let us know how the murder was committed.
Surridge is struggling with his marriage, finding it difficult to manage his money and trying to sort out disease that has struck some of his animals at the Zoo. He is understandably under tremendous pressure so when he meets a young lady he is ever-willing to become good friends with her.He is awaiting an inheritance from someone who is seriously ill but who continues to hang on to life.
And he does but even then things do not go smoothly and Surridge is left with little money, just expectations, which he finds difficult to come to terms with.The client eventually dies suddenly and his complicated death is considered an accident so the matter is closed.
Gave up after 100 pages of a thoroughly unpleasant "protagonist" rationalizing immoral actions, while the people around him did same. Blech.
It's always such a pleasure when a forgotten classic turns out to be so well-crafted and accessible today.Antidote to Venom was written in the late 1920s, the heyday of literary mystery.
In fact, Freeman Crofts was a contemporary of the young Agatha Christie (and at the time his books outsold hers!) Antidote to Venom is a unique murder mystery in that it is inverted: We see the buildup and crime as they occur through the eyes of the murderer, not the detective.
A unique and fascinating read!
I think Freeman Wills Crofts was better at writing the traditional whodunnit than these would-be psychological crime stories.
You can see the author trying to make it look as though he finds himself forced into a corner where the only option is to connive in a murder, but it just isn't convincing.
Also there's a really weird religious enlightenment bit at the end which doesn't fit in with the rest of the story, doesn't fit with the protagonist's character, adds nothing to the plot...
it's just a bit odd!I'm hoping Freeman Wills Crofts didn't try too many more of these experiments with the detective novel and stuck with what he was good at!
***1/2.“Crofts (1879-1957) was one of the pre-eminent writers in the golden age of British crime fiction.
He was the author of more than thirty detective novels and was greatly acclaimed by his peers, including Agatha Christie and Raymond Chandler.” I suspect that Croft is not widely read today, but is more important as a footnote in the history of crime fiction.
This leads to an arrangement where our zoo magnate and the attorney become partners in a new crime that will bail both of them out of their troubles.
Unfortunately, his wife Clarissa, is not terribly happy to be living anywhere but London and George doesn't earn quite as much as she would like him to earn so his home life isn't as tranquil as it could be.
George takes refuge, as many before him have done in gambling and the arms of another woman.I found this a well written crime story which has stood the test of time.
If you like older crime stories then this one is well worth reading and I shall definitely be reading more by this author.
Pretty good book.
It's set up sort of like a "reverse whodunnit" but even stronger - it takes a long time for you to find out who's going to get murdered with multiple false hints as to who the victim will be and things only really get going like...
It works well, things get set up nicely and the build-up is well done.
The mystery itself is built around a single conceit but it's pretty ingenious and I liked itMASSIVE ending spoiler(view spoiler)[The very ending is hilarious in a very grim way.
This Inspector French whodunnit has to be persevered-with, and will reward those who do so.A slow, meticulous unfolding of the way in which an upright citizen is drawn into considering actions he would not believe he might carry out.
Then a slow, meticulous unfolding of the way in which Inspector French's procedural skills try to solve the case.An unusual and morality-affirming conclusion/denouement makes a satisfactory end."George Surridge, director of the Birmington Zoo, is a man with many worries: his marriage is collapsing; his finances are insecure.
As Surridge’s debts mount and the pressure on him increases, he begins to dream of miracle solutions.
Although FWC is one of my very favourite authors, I felt that this inverted mystery was a bit too long.
In Martin Edwards' forward he explains that Crofts was trying to show how an otherwise decent person can be drawn into temptation and allowing his (Crofts) faith to show through.
While I take this on board I still feel that the build up detailing how George Surridge gradually turns from a decent man into a murderer was so long it began to get boring.
None of his characters are ever likable
The first 150 pages actually reminded me of the hit TV series Breaking Bad: a generally good man keeps making small bad decisions, each of which get him in further trouble.Because of its unique structure, the book does a better job than most mystery novels at giving you a soft spot for the villain.
It's a shame, because the book becomes the most fun at precisely the moment it proceeds too quickly.It almost feels as if an editor told Crofts to cut some of his manuscript, and he wound up cutting the wrong part: I'd love to see some of the first-half fat injected into the lean final pages.
I think that I can honestly say that I have never read one like it before.I found it a little strange that the Detective (star of the series) doesnt even put in an appearance until about the 70% mark.
In this and many other ways, the book has similarities with the one I mentioned earlier but I felt that this one fell a bit flat .
The author had opened up several intriguing possibilities from the background and situation of the main characters and the interaction between them although he chose not to follow up any of them.I have to confess that I found the book a bit difficult to read more than a small section at a sitting.
George is shocked to find he is thinking more and more of his Aunts death and even has wicked thoughts about her demise.This is a novel that has intrigue and is well written with an extremely clever plot.Originally published in 1938, it has lost none of it's charm and set in the unusual vicinity of a zoo, Antidote to Venom is quite unlike most other crime novels.
Antidote to Venom is well worth a read, it has charm, and The author captures George's feelings of fright and anxiety perfectly.
Continuing reading through the British Library Crime Classics series.
A very good read, never boring.
This author writes detective stories with a clear moral purpose behind them.
The format is what is known as an inverted detective novel.
Instead of reading to figure out who committed the crime, the story begins from the soon-to-be murderer's point of view.
We meet George Surridge, director of the Birmingham Zoo and learn about his many worries - failing marriage, gradually worsening money problems, boring life.
He has borrowed money until there is nowhere else to turn.
Remember the TV series, "Columbo" ....also an inverted mystery.
A good yarn, back to front, in that we know who dunnit, not how or how the police catch up with the culprit.
However, the characters, especially the main one George Surridge, weren't particularly engaging and whilst you could see very well his situational panic, his reactions to unfolding events were somewhat exaggerated.
I could see a number of explanations, ways around his situation which would have ended better for him and whilst I think the religious element was an unusual and possibly realistic touch, in terms of a good murder story was a bit weak.
Good plot.
The British Library's mission to revive the work of mystery authors who have fallen from fashion usually produces interesting works and this vintage mystery is no exception.
Rather than needing to work out who the murderer is, the question is whether they will be found out.
There's some ingenious plotting, particularly the method of the murder, and the characters are well drawn, if hard to like.
The author was extremely popular in his day although forgotten for many years.
In my opinion, this is worth a read and I will probably look out for more by the author.
Oh what a tangled web we weave....
Poor George Surredge, director of the Birmington Zoo, is unhappily married, in debt, and in love with another woman.
All could be set right if his wealthy aunt would just die.
When she finally does he discovers that her solicitor has gambled away all her money.
When he concocts a "fool proof" scheme to recover the money that depends on George's securing a poisonous snake from the zoo, George sees no other way out.
All seems to be going their way until Scotland Yard gets involved.
The 'Columbo' structure worked even better with this book, as Crofts gives even more satisfaction and suspense to having Inspector French figure out what we, the reader, already know. The ending came a little abruptly, being both a benefit and a drawback to this book. The somewhat early ending has made me thirsty for more of Crofts' works - I doubt this will be my last read of his books - yet I couldn't help but finish the book with the belief that there was more to tell here. A smooth summer read.
This an inverted murder mystery. We know who did it from the start and then follow Inspector French as he investigates. George Surrage is manager of a zoo and in an unhappy marriage. We follow his decline astemptation crosses his path. Like an episode of Columbo this book entertains and thrills. A few twists and turns keep the action going.Spoiler ************This was a 5 star read until the final chapter when all is forgiven when George confessies to God. and he sleeps peacefully. 4.9 stars then
I picked up this 1938 crime drama in Waterstone's in Oxford, England. It is one of 60-odd re-released titles by British writers from the Golden Age of Crime Fiction. I loved this book from the start. It didn't disappoint. The ending will please my mother, who is reading it now, as it has a happy ending.
Antidote to Venom is from the golden age of detective fiction, but this book comes at the murder from a different angle. We see the decline in fortunes of a man who then decides to murder, and how he is found out. Very readable and enjoyable.
This adds a new element to golden age detective fiction as it has a distinct psychological angle.
Another complex alibi neatly broken by Inspector French. An interesting period piece
Ridiculous plot and worse ending.Pathetic characters, appalling, unnatural dialogue and an ending dependant on god as saviour. No wonder the author is out of fashion.
I've come to really like Wills Croft as a writer, and this is a good book I much prefer the inspector French books.
3.5
