https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/26892110-the-library-at-mount-char
there are definitely elements that are "our-world;" character names like "michael," "carolyn," "david," there is mention of a post office, and horses and club soda, but there are also things like Pelapi and people coming back from the dead, a man wearing a helmet of blood and a tutu and another communicating with animals.
they never break into song like the charming orphans in annie,their particular lessons are harder, and turn them into harder people, prone to infighting, violence, and fear.at the start of the book, father has gone missing, and without him in place the world, including our world, is in danger of his equally-powerful enemies making a power play.
It's going to stick in my mind for a damn long time, and even now the story is continuing in my hindbrain, either resurrected endlessly, or a victim of the Black Book.
Or, maybe worse than any of that, it's going to stay with me because I Never want to let the story go.I'm recommending this for the Hugos for next year.
I kept thinking I was going to dnf this sucker but I looked and most of my friends on Goodreads had given it a pretty decent rating.
I didn't want to be that weird one..again.I'm going to attempt to sum up some of this book and hopefully make some sense of it in my mind at the same time.
"Father" taught each of his librarians, but they were only allowed to study out of the books in their fields.
I think I'm going to go and take a nap now though and hope to just forget about these librarians.
This book is weird.
This book is fantastic!Sometimes books are complex, weird, and artsy - but it all feels forced.
Kind of like the author sat down and said "check out how artsy and deep and meaningful I can be".
But, with this one it felt like all the bizarre complexity and weirdness was flowing out of the author and he couldn't help it.
He sat down and said "OMG, what is coming out of my mind right now!?
I don't think this book is for everyone, and I think no matter how weird your tastes are, it will take a while to get into this.
And, so, when you describe it, people might be like, “Whoa, easy there, Tiger—I’m not into things that are simultaneously weird and violent and graphic and mind-bendy and gross and perplexing and unusual and a little bit funny and a little bit dark and a little confusing and a little non-sensical.
I prefer cats, though whether they’re alive or dead, I don’t care.” So, you’re faced with a conundrum: you can try to explain this thing that you liked and get people to check it out, or you can just stick it in a box, not tell people what it is, and make them wonder whether it’s something they’d love, hate, or be indifferent toward, and hope that their curiosity induces them to check it out.
I mean, am I even reviewing the book anyway?
The Library at Mount Char is the most fun I've had reading a book in a long time.
I feel like I used that exact same line in another book review recently, but I lied if that's the case.
This book really is the most fun I've had reading a book in a long time.
People have also compared this to Grossman's The Magicians, but that book sucks and no one should ever do that.
Thanks, Kelley, for recommending this book to me.
Clear your calendar and read this one.
it is his first piece of published fiction but it reads like he's been publishing novels for years.
I did this by finding God. haha, that really came out of left field for my parents!
at the end of one such summer, the pastor had a practice of gathering us all together to answer any questions we might have.
I had a classic one: "If God truly loves us, why does He allow bad things to happen to us?"his reply was equally classic: "Imagine a quilt.
What kind of fucking God does that?"So I think it's safe to say that Hawkins shares my dad's perspective on God.
Update 02-09-2018It's been two weeks and I still have no idea how to do a review on this one. I loved the characters, especially the despicable ones. The whole concept of whether they were Gods or not was fascinating. The plot was just complex and wonderful. Just go read it!Original review - 01-26-2018 ALL THE STARS! ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐What a mind fuck!I absolutely loved this book! I’m not even sure how to go about doing a proper review. I know without a fact that this will be a book that I will remember 10 y
Update 02-09-2018It's been two weeks and I still have no idea how to do a review on this one.
I loved the characters, especially the despicable ones.
Just go read it!Original review - 01-26-2018 ALL THE STARS!
⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️⭐️What a mind fuck!I absolutely loved this book!
I’m not even sure how to go about doing a proper review.
I know without a fact that this will be a book that I will remember 10 years from now.
It was so great, weird and mesmerizing as I read it.Once I sort out my thoughts and put the LSD down, I’ll do a review on this.
MY BLOG: Melissa Martin's Reading ListOkay, I have to admit, in the beginning of the book to almost half way I wanted to stop reading and run away.
Then I started to really like it when the kids were in Mrs. McGillicutty's house with Steve, it got comical and I started understanding an eenie meenie bit more!
All I can truly say is if your not liking the book at first give it a bit and then see.
She speaks English.""Yes. Yes, she certainly does."Carolyn jerked her thumb at the couple behind her.
Not knowing what this book has in store for me (which is the most adventurous I will ever get!), I started on the first page, well… it’s about a librarian walking along the road with a detective’s blood all over her.
Why in the world would I not read that immediately?It was such a clever way to start a mystery book.
It’s about a woman who has just killed a detective, which sets you up for just how wild things are going to get.Of course, this isn’t actually a mystery book, either.
Its average rating is good but not sky high, and I suspect that this is to do with the way that the closing sections really don't make a lot of sense unless you are prepared to take a lot of random arm waving on board.I found I could swallow the end game weakness and thus ended up thinking the book was excellent.Surprisingly for a book set in the US, lions play a significant role in the story!
Given my knowledge of lions (gathered solely by watching David Attenborough etc) I would say that Hawkins doesn't know much about lions (I don't think the male head of the pride goes hunting with his female cub ...
Strange and utterly delightful.
With that being said, it's nowhere near as well written as Hill's books, and vastly better written than Gaiman.
So, if you like Lovecraft you will probably like this far-out book.
I'm telling you, sports fans, this book is fucking out there.In summation: I know I haven't told you shit about the plot, and I'm not going to.
Book buying like every other life choice is your decision to make as a discerning adult.
You rock.)(Ridiculous note to Dan 2.0: This book is fucking ridiculous.
Do not read this ridiculous book.
When Father goes missing, the Librarians he trained try to solve his murder while his legacy hangs in the balance.
More importantly, what will happen to His Library?I got this from Netgalley.I'm not completely sure how I felt about this book.
Hell, for most of the book, I wasn't sure who was supposed to be the main character.
When he goes missing and the Librarians are barred from the Library, things go to hell quite quickly.Each of the twelve orphans has a catalog.
It's also one of the few books where I wanted a lot more worldbuilding.All things considered, the Library at Mount Char was a pretty engaging read.
If you pick this up, I bet that you will too.The distinctive mix of godlike powers and very human, emotional, knee jerk reactions contained in this story reminded me of some of the darker Greek and Roman mythological story elements like: the serial rapists (Zeus and about every other major god figure) and the unjust punishments of the innocents (Medusa, Actaeon, Laocoon, etc).Those mythologies were written to explain the unexplainable workings of nature, weather, time, and humanity itself.I think, if one makes The Library at Mount Char into a metaphor for reality, it fills the same role, in a modern way, as those more ancient stories.It gives a rhyme and reason to the mystery that is life.
Review from 2nd Reading - 8/10/17I still love this book SO MUCH!!
The second reading only proved to me that my memory was correct, that this book is freaking amazing and as completely awesome as I remembered it being.
It's not for everyone--if you don't have a taste for the bizarre, if you're not willing to step outside the bounds of reality and embrace a fantastically skewed version of our world, then you're probably better off just not picking it up.
Bizarre characters enter and fantastic events unfold; you scratch your head and keep reading.
I believed in this universe he created; I bought into the existence of these characters and events, and felt the integrity of the resolution.
Not to mention that the kids grow up to pretty much be sociopaths, with the rape and murder and such.
This book also climaxes too fast, with the last third of the novel being falling action from the big confrontation.
Don't get me wrong, we need that falling action because that's when the most interesting parts of the library are shown, but very little actually happens during that last 120 pages or so.
I don't know how to rate this book.
Full review now posted!You can find this review and more at Booknest.Have you ever bought a book and not gotten around to reading it until years later?
I currently have well over 3,000 books in my home, many of which I bought because they were incredibly cheap, not to mention that I wanted to take them home with me because they had words in them.
I bought it two years ago because it had a pretty cover (with the word “library” in the title, no less) and was on sale, but I somehow never got around to reading it.
I picked up the book and started reading.
(If anyone read that in Jason Mantzoukas’s voice, I’m in love with you.)https://emmareadstoomuch.wordpress.co...I’ve never read anything like this book before!!
Also, I loved that like, the most insanely background characters were fuller than most YA protagonists.
388 pages may not seem like a lot, but they were huge pages and a fairly small font and this book did drag a bit sometimes.
(May have to do with how hard it could be to read.)But I’m still givin’ it the big 4, because it’s so insane and imaginative and unique and really more of an Experience than a book.
'It's about to get very dark, you see.'Time works differently in the library at Mount Char.
It is home to the Pelapi, best described as librarians.
Apprentices to Father, they have been assigned to catalogs of special learnings.
Regard the sun as it fades to black, see the floating staircase, and note the smell of tears.
Meet Rachel and her ghost children, the terrifying David, and the odiferous Margaret.
Jennifer, gentle soul and healer.
Carolyn, the linguist, a bookworm at heart.
Learn about heart coals.
(view spoiler)[You might want to skip the barbecue.
(hide spoiler)]
It was a lot of fun discussing theories and comparing notes with you, Kristen!
:D I can honestly say this was one of the most bizarre books I've ever read!
For one thing, it gets a little too grim for my liking at times.
Some moments are very violent, to the point where it felt more like it was just for shock value than a necessary part of the story.
Fortunately, it all gets pulled together in the end to reach a very impactful conclusion.A fun and emotional read, yet also one that requires a little patience and a really high tolerance of yucky stuff to get through.
Even.This book - it's like everything I've ever wanted in my fiction, and so much more.
It's like if bizarro and fantasy met literary for a twisted menage a trois.
I was captivated from the first five minutes, and didn't want to pause the audio to even shower.
Michael, like his cougars around him, was naked.
David wore an Israeli Army flak jacket and a lavender tutu, crusty with blood.
The flak jacket was his.
The tutu was from the closet of Mrs. McGillicutty's son.Until this book, this author wrote computer tech manuals.
I'm never one to reread books, but I will this one.
The beats of it are perfect- this is the rhythm of someone who understands what the reader needs to feel like to stay inside the story and stay invested in the characters, and how many resources he needs to allocate to each of those tasks.There are also, I must say, some wonderfully suspenseful action sequences throughout this novel, and this despite my own personal tendency to find standard action sequences rather boring these days.
Also, while I love some obscenity as much as the next person, I do think that Hawkins could probably rely less on having his characters use as many iterations as he can of the word"fuck" to get a laugh -it got less funny as he went on.
Review also on The Library at Mount Char is the most bizarre book I have read. Ever. I don't throw superlatives around lightly, but this book earned it. I've been attempting to write my review for this for days now and between its grandiose premise and endless twists, I find it most difficult to review without giving out spoilers. I will try anyway.God is missing. God is known by many names, but he is Father to the Librarians. The Librarians were regular Americans once until Father adopted them
Unable to find any other solutions, they decide to enlist the help of a normal American.Carolyn, librarian of the catalogue for languages, goes out to the real world to seek the help of a plumber named Steve.
This is the first time David and Michael were described and I had no context for whoever Mrs.McGillicutty was or her son at this point, so I was in a constant state of ...It is just fortunate that Scott Hawkins is a talented writer, so it makes the confusion bearable.
There were also background stories I found unnecessary, while important details like the catalogues of other Librarians were severely lacking.The Library at Mount Char is a well-written dark fantasy for adults.
It most definitely IS NOT.Carolyn was a normal girl once, until the day she called Adoption Day, when her parents and those of children around her died and they were adopted by a man they call Father.
The children seemed to kill without any rhyme or reason, and it didn't sit right with me.I found I had to set it aside a few times and take a break.But soon a story emerged and it became slightly easier to deal with.
The main character Carolyn, is definitely unique and I enjoyed watching as a girl so removed from normal American society attempted to integrate herself.I just...
I don't exactly know what to say after finishing this book other than I can't find the words to review it right now. I will say that I have never read a book quite like it (and I've read some weird books). I'm not sure how someone's brain houses a story like this and then can translate it onto a page but Mr. Hawkins has managed to do it. In short, the book is disturbing, freakout weird, compelling, original, and mostly brilliant. Full review when I can handle it.
I was warned that this would be the weirdest book I've ever read and... yep!In the beginning I had a hard time getting into since every 1-2 chapters you start following a different story without really knowing how they are linked. Eventually it all starts to make sense and I just couldn't put it down!If you're looking for something different - horror, thriller, whimsical type then this is it!I would try and summarize it but honestly there's no way I would give it justice. Just read it!
I mean, the book's main goal-based plotline effectively was finished at like 75% - and yet, 75% is not 100% and there's still a whole bunch of book left and I don't understand why there's so much book left and why everything is being wrapped up and explained, even to our characters, including the one who crafted and plotted it all (????) and then it sort of makes sense at the END end, but then feels like one of those books that you have to turn around and start all over again so that you might actually understand it this time since you MAYBE think you have the big picture now and just need to fill in some understanding gaps but then it picks up at literally 99.832% and another door opens and you realize that there's a whole lot MORE story and fucking fuck's sake where's this gonna go from here?
Some time ago, a dozen children were 'recruited' by an ancient power to become 'Librarians.' These librarians aren't anything like any associations you might have with the word, however.
becoming what we would call monsters.But now, their 'father' is mysteriously gone; and in that absence, power is up for grabs...Our main character, Carolyn, is one of the Librarians.
But when his path intersects that of Carolyn, he's going to learn that he never really knew what trouble was.A disturbing novel with some surprisingly humorous and positive notes (yes, they're really there, amidst the violence and gore).
So glad that someone recommended this to me, and so glad also that my library had already bought it and had it available, because this book is quite an amazing experience .
The blurb says Joe Hill meets Neil Gaiman and for once this is very close to the truth.
Hill's horror and love of gore mixed with Gaiman's mystery and imagination are very much acknowledged.
Add to this some amazing characters especially the redoubtable Carolyn.
I loved every single word of this book and was very happy to see that the ending could, maybe, be setting things up for a sequel.
