https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/438072.Funeral_in_Berlin
I quite enjoyed this Len Deighton novel.
I had seen the Harry Palmer movies starring Michael Caine (Funeral in Berlin and The Ipcress File) way back when and loved them.
So I thought I'd give the novels a try.
The writing is sharp and witty and Deighton's style is quite unique.Funeral in Berlin is a spy novel set in the '60s.
The novel centers around a proposed smuggling of a scientist across the Berlin wall.
Bottom line, this is a cerebral spy thriller--not really a lot of action.
If you enjoy quality writing and an intelligent spy novel, you might want to give it a try.
The other two were Ian Fleming of James Bond fame, and John Le Carré, author of Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy and The Spy Who Came In from the Cold.Funeral in Berlin is typical of the period.
The hero, who is called Harry Palmer in the movies but is unnamed in the books, arranges to transfer a Russian scientist to West Berlin by means of a coffin.
My favorite of his books is Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy, which has been made into an excellent film and a great British TV series starring Sir Alez Guinness as George Smiley.
It does, however, feature heavily in the third Harry Palmer novel, as the title obviously indicates.The plot of Funeral in Berlin is apparently the mirror image of The The Ipcress File, with Palmer trying to arrange the reception for a Russian scientist defecting via West Berlin.
(Palmer is a much brighter but less flamboyant character than Bond, too.)Apart from The Ipcress File, Funeral in Berlin is the best of the Harry Palmer novels, sharing its best quality - an ability to surprise even after all these years.
"He was a big-boned man, his hair was cropped to the skull and his complexion was like something the dog had been playing with.""Samantha lived in the sort of road where driving schools teach people to turn around.""Hallam clasped his thin hands behind his head and swung gently from side to side in his swivel chair.
A man in a Mini shouted 'You stupid bastard!' at my driver and I nodded in agreement.""His face was very white and very wrinkled like a big ball of string,""That basically was why the English would never be good at doing anything: they were amateurs.
I enjoyed this story.
The tale wanders from London to Berlin, east and west, to Czechoslovakia and France and contains a cast of characters, from Salzman to his capable assistant (one of my favourite characters even if she is only rarely in it), Jean to his boss, Dawlish, the Russian, Stok, etc that you love meeting and enjoy the interactions.
Each chapter discusses the rules of chess and various plays and moves and ultimately, this is the crux of the story, a chess game with players feinting and moving across the board until the end.
You have to read Funeral in Berlin.
A sparkling, racy, supersmart cold war spy story that packs more than a punch. Len Deighton is an acclaimed historian, and Funeral in Berlin owes much of its smart-as-hell real life references & accurate sense of time to that fact.I enjoyed it immensely and I think this book has brought me back full circle to my old love for historically accurate and inspired genre novels. John Le' Carre, here I come again!
This is not a casual read. The plot is complicated, there are numerous devastating plot twists, and a shocker reveal at the end. in my opinion, this is the best of Deighton that I've read so far, and book number three of the Palmer series, although that character is unnamed in these books.
This was fun--zany, not as serious as the Samson works. And, the real mystery is revealed only at the end.
Personaggi credibili, dialoghi non banali, situazioni per lo più plausibili non facili,soprattutto gli ultimi due, da trovare in molti romanzi di spionaggio.
Avevo visto dei film tratti dai romanzi di Leighton, ma non mi aspettavo che fosse un romanziere completo.
Una bella sorpresa, soprattutto considerando che ho altri tre suoi romanzi che mi aspettano!E adesso a recuperare o film degli anni ‘60 con Michael Caine.
A questo proposito, per i pochi che avessero visto il film, pur rispettando a grandi linee la trama e mantenendo i personaggi, differisce un po’ dal libro però non perde niente dell’ironia che traspare dalle pagine.
I didn’t care for this one as much as The Ipcress File. The multiple narrative wasn’t as effective as the straight first person of TIF, and occasionally flat-out failed. I’ll read more Deighton though, because overall he tips the scale toward the positive side in terms of an entertaining genre read.
As ever with Len Deighton, this rattles along at a good old pace, but rush it at your peril.
Unlike James Bond, our unnamed protagonist goes home to make his tea.
This is what I've always liked about Deighton's work, and a style that critically wasn't lost in the film adaptation - Harry Palmer is cynical and rebellious.The best part of this book though has to be Deighton's sometimes caustic view of the world he portrays, with dry, sarcastic wit evident throughout, and some wonderful turns of phrase.

I read this book whenever I have the flu. I love it. And I don't like the others of these series much at all. I first read it when I was twelve and fell in love with Deighton's light touch, and the narration is wonderfully wry. I adore Stok as much as Palmer, btw.Occured to me that this is one of the important existential novels of the sixities. Sorry Sartre
Funeral in Berlin is the second in the "Harry Palmer" trilogy and is perhaps the best as it's more believable than The Ipcress File or Billion Dollar Brain.Deighton's writing here is well crafted and the Berlin scenes, both East and West, are well drawn and come to life.
A superior espionage thriller. Packed full of convincing detail and dry wit. A dense plot, but not so overwhelming that you'll get lost in it. Len Deighton's nameless protagonist is more charming than James Bond, just as smart as George Smiley and as cynical as a bullet in the back.
Another gloriously bleak tale of espionage and its consequent deceptions and betrayals - and the continuing shadow of the Second World War and the Holocaust in the turbulent 1960s...
Another re-read. Well written, with rich and often amusing descriptions, great eye for detail.Cold War era spy classic which stands up well 50 years on.
This is a spy classic. It's a clever read that will keep you thinking throughout. Small cheat since you never quite have enough information.An enjoyable and quick read.
Deighton's book, well written as usual, takes place more in London than Berlin, with brief sections in the coast of Spain next to the French border, Bordeaux and Prague.
In fact Deighton begins each chapter with a short sentence of two from a chess manual (real or imagined?
I was never any good at chess.)Because it is so complex, as well as more than a little confusing, I'll only offer what could be thought of as a spoiler, but which will not spoil anyone's reading, in fact might just encourage some to read it: There is NO funeral in Berlin, as such, in the text.
I bought this in a charity shop because I'd never read anything by Deighton. It's much as one might expect, that particular kind of sharp precise detail you get in spy stories, especially those written before 1965. It's an almost unrecognisable world of course, not just the Cold War Berlin, but smoggy cold London and everyone smoking constantly and everything coldly modern in a way that's impossibly distant.
Not a poor book, with a story the reader can follow and attempt to piece together - at least partly. In particular, I appreciated the additional humour that Deighton starts to inject into the characters of Dawlish and ???, which hasn’t been their to such an extent in previous books.A shame that after over 240 pages of proper spy-like posturing the end comes quickly and disjointedly.
Not one of Deighton's best efforts. His attention to descriptive details is a bit overwhelming here and the story bogs down as a result. His character development is always strong though. Solid conclusion but there didn't seem to be an great urgency in getting there.
This is exponentially better than the first two books. Why he deems it necessary to mention the model number of the Mercedes grated on my sensibilities - all in all hangs together and worth a rainy afternoon.
Kept me guessing; a classic spy novel.
A funeral in Berlin is as stylised as a Clint Eastwood western, and similarly it’s an evocatively choreographed peak into the past; into the cold war secret services in this case, especially those of Britain.
Readers with huge vocabularies will be happy to revel in their literary superiority in this as Deighton enjoys little inside jokes with us while, with well researched accuracy, steeping the times and the secret services with all the fickle ‘perfidy’ (as Deighton might put it) of the age.
Even so, Deighton has the genius throughout the book, to make the reader feel intelligent as sprinkles paper trail clues like an Easter egg hunt.
The third in Len Deighton's 'nameless spy' series provides more witty, well-written, spy action.
Jean, such a good character in The IPCRESS File, is barely present, and might have been better served by being absent entirely.Deighton exercises a new writing muscle, injecting a few chapters of close third-person narration in amongst the series' usual first-person, abandoning the idea that we're reading a real agent's secret reports.The movie is very different, and is in some ways better than the book.
It has a great blurb talking up how popular Deighton's books are, invoking Bond and the Beatles.
This is the third of Len Deighton's "nameless hero" books, although they can also be referred to as the "Harry Palmer" books, after Michael Caine's portrayal of the narrator.
The dialogue and narration were what really carried the day for me, especially imagining some bits being said by Michael Caine (which may be my way of proceeding with The Ipcress File if I ever try that one again).
For example:"Been trying to get you since four o'clock this afternoon," the Charlotte Street switchboard said petulantly."I was in the toilet," I said.Or this one, where the nameless hero's boss, Dawlish, is complaining about him playing his music too loud in the office:Hero: "It's not in your office, it's in my office."Dawlish: "It might just as well be in my office.
Funeral In Berlin is one of Deighton's unnamed spy novels (Ipcress File, BDB, An Expensive Place To Die among others) many of which have been made into films starring Michael Caine as a spy named Harry Palmer.
In addition he has to contend with an Israeli agent called Samantha Steel and a Home Office man back in London who may be compromised because of his homosexuality.
A low marble table held three dozen bottles of lotion and salts and above that there was a huge pink mirror and a complexity of stainless steel shower fittings.The bathtub was made of some sort of black stone.
Πραγματικά πάρα πολύ καλό βιβλίο, με καταπληκτική ατμόσφαιρα, καλή γραφή, έξυπνους διαλόγους, αρκετό χιούμορ σε πολλά σημεία, ενδιαφέροντες χαρακτήρες και δυνατό τέλος με πολλές αποκαλύψεις που κάνουν τον αναγνώστη να καταλάβει τι έγινε τελικά στην όλη ιστορία, αν μέχρι τότε δεν είχε καταλάβει επακριβώς.
Στα ελληνικά το βιβλίο είναι πάρα μα πάρα πολύ σπάνιο, μέχρι τη στιγμή που το βρήκα δεν ήξερα καν ότι είχε μεταφραστεί, και έμεινα αρκετά ευχαριστημένος από την έκδοση.
Κάποια στιγμή θα δω και την ταινία σε σκηνοθεσία Guy Hamilton (σκηνοθέτης μερικών ταινιών του James Bond, Δύναμη 10 από το Ναβαρόνε, Η Μάχη της Αγγλίας κ.α.) με πρωταγωνιστή τον Michael Caine.
Capturing perfectly the mid-sixties Cold War paranoia that affected all sides, Deighton sends his protagonist to secure the defection of a top Soviet scientist, Semitsa.
Nothing is as it seems, everyone has a hidden agenda that only really becomes clear in the final few chapters.Our hero navigates his way through double cross after double cross while trying to keep his boss, Dawlish, off his back and uncover the real situation behind the game of bluff and double bluff.Deighton keeps things moving at a swift pace and the short Chess rules quotations at the head of each chapter are a nice touch.
