https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/311126.Simon_the_Coldheart
3.5✶A character flaw of mine is that I really hate admitting I'm wrong.*shuffles feet, looks embarrassed*I was wrong about Simon the Coldheart. Members of the Georgette Heyer Fans Group can let their eyes glaze over this section, as they have heard this story many, many, many times before!My late father (who introduced me to the works of Georgette Heyer) loved this novel as a young boy. Being blissfully unaware that this was one of the titles that the strong minded Heyer had suppressed, he spent
. Dad was a fussy devil and I thought I had finally found the perfect gift!
Well Dad read this book - & this time round, he hated it.
Dad has been on my mind a lot recently, so I thought I would reread this as a tribute to him.
The first half of the book has "baseborn" Simon giving himself the surname Beauvallet and becoming a page to his father Malvallet's sworn enemy, Fulk.
right through this read!In spite of a singular lack of charm or humour, we are to believe Simon perfect) 
Simon is the bastard son of a local lord.
When he is 14, he walks miles to get to his father's rival, Fulk of Montlice, and offers him his service.
But then he goes to war in France, and he meets his match--the beautiful and fearless Lady Margaret of Belremy.
When two stubborn minds meet, who will gain supremacy?
(Simon, of course--Margaret's just a lady!
It's only a matter of time before she's weeping and fainting and stuttering with her overpowering lurrrrve.)Simon is the manliest man who ever manned.
Every single character thinks he is the awesomest dude who ever drew breath, and says so every time they're present.
Simon compares his father to Fulk of Montlice (Malvallet's enemy) and decides that Montlice is the better man and goes to him, determined to become part of his household.
Simon may be a cold fish and called 'The Soldier' by the King, but he sticks to the few he calls friend and without realizing it comes to care deeply about them.
His friend, Alan Montlice is called 'The Poet' and Simon's half brother Geoffrey Malvallet is 'The Knight' and together they form the King's three graces.
Geoffrey Malvallet has a sweet side story with the Countess Margot's Lady-in-Waiting, Jeanne.
If you like Heyer or medieval tales I would give this book a shot.
Heyer fans take note--all the romance happens in the last third of the book.ETA: Just finished a long over-due re-read.
I will confess to being a fan of Rafael Sabatini and Baroness Orczy--both best selling authors of the early 20th century--so I felt right at home in this book.
Indeed, this books reads, to me, like an attempt at a Sabatini-style adventure.
The main thing that will be grate on a modern reader's sensibilities is the portrayal of Margaret of Belramy, the heroine.
The romance between Simon and Margaret is very full of her 'I hate you' and his 'I will tame you'.
I'll be looking up Henry V (on Wikipedia for starters I admit) and checking out the things he got up to, even if he didn't have a real Simon of Beauvallet at his side.In conclusion, I really enjoyed this book, even though I didn't expect to do so.
Joined by his half-bro Geoffrey and his adopted bro Alan, he meets the tiger-lady of his dreams, Lady Margaret, except she's FRENCH and EVERYTHING'S RUINED.
2. But it's also a story about a man, meaning that Margaret is only introduced to be a foil to Simon.
Her drive is to thwart him (which, he deserves to be thwarted by the woman alleged to be his match in my opinion!), but even that doesn't come to fruition because Simon is Such a Man that he foils her plots and makes her submit.
Simon's relationship with his bros, Geoffrey and Alan is basically the best part.
Geoffrey pretty much just wants to be bffs with Simon, his bastard half-brother.
The style is hard to get into at first because of the use of Old English in dialogue, and general stiffness in narration, but that same stiffness becomes a subtle and powerful device to create historical ambiance by the end.Great characters.
Until Heyer screws up her character with damsel-in-distress disorder, she is relentless and fearlessly confrontational as Simon, but much more passionate and dramatic, as well as more centered on her singular goal than on the general cool calm logic that Simon employs.It was pleasant from a feminist point of view to see a strong woman so determined to do what she thought best.
She does match Simon in many of her attributes, which is always the way in Georgette Heyer books, that the hero and the heroine have to share common values and tastes.
Fulk, Alan and Geoffrey are truly appreciable characters who genuinely love and respect Simon, even King Henry (the son) for that matter.
But again this is my point of view and I find I also very comforting to know that Simon who was alone till he met Fulk got people who loved him dearly, the way that he deserves!
Overall brilliantly written story, good plot, great character sketches.And as I always say for all Georgette Heyer books, IT IS A MUST READ!
I really love this book.Again, it's not your typical Georgie Heyer.
I will just note that, although this book contains some romance, it's more of an adventure.
I love that about it; there are battles, politics and intrigue, along with strong themes of loyalty and honour.If you like more romance than history in your historical romance, then this probably isn't the book for you.
However, if you want a more than a standard 'boy meets girl and they fall in love' with nice dresses scenario, (Oh, stop looking at me like that: we ALL read them!!!) then give this book a try.
Jacket flap of the version I have (1979 by Dutton, first published in GB in 1925) notes this volume is an early novel of Heyer's that was never published in US prior to Heyer's death.
It's instructive and fun to read an early effort by a novelist who later became quite accomplished.
This one takes the reader back in time to the late Middle Ages, making good use of period references, and incidentally laying an artistic and logical-historical framework for the chivalrous behavior of the Regency Period which Heyer specializes in with so much authenticity.
Fascinating tie-in, both historically and artistically.
This is definitely one of Heyer's joyrides of a book. You can well imagine her smiling mischievously as she wrote it, knowing exactly how rollicking a romp she was creating. The Medieval setting is drawn well enough, and the dialogue, as is usual in her books, resonates with humorous period correct oaths and exclamations. The hero is over the top, and the heroine somewhat underwhelming, (especially as the story moves on) but what's that when the rest of the book is such fun? All in all, a worthwhile adventure.
Three stars because I, personally, enjoyed it, but not a very good book, and certainly not Heyer's best.
Since his youth, Simon's stuborness gets him everything.
Spoilers Included In ReviewUmmmmm....enjoyable reading and I really liked a lot of the secondary characters, but Simon really was a bore.
Geoffrey's romance had me in stiches of smiles.
Though at one point Simon gets a little "worried", there is no real strain on  him.
Though I enjoyed the plot well enough, Margaret/Simon annoyed me excessively.
I liked the secondary characters and plot, that is what made this book for me.
Will Simon bring her to submission, or will it be he that finds himself submitting?Think this sounds like a trash history romance?
It was a time travel to high adventure and romance that was brilliantly done.Those of us called prudes for not liking trash, and snobs for needing proper writing free from modern sensibilities and language, and overdone tropes, apparently need to seek out the 1920s for “trash” beach reading.I’ve never read anything like this book, but I’ve been looking for it forever.
For all my friends that like high adventure, chivalry, history, romance, and good writing, you have found what you are looking for.
On the other hand, Heyer made a great job as a historian.
She used even old English (it could be a little difficult to read for some people but for me it was next level/side of the book).
There are so good description of the people, how they probably lived and thought that you can feel that you are with them.It was an amazing experience and I have learn a little more about a few historical facts (which I could easily check in online sources).What could I or should I write more?
If you know only Heyer's Regency romances but you like also other periods of history you won't be disappointed.
If you like historical fiction you will enjoy this book too.
An entertaining story that has good character development.
I enjoyed reading how the characters interacted with one another, seeing how the three young men, Simon, Geoffrey, and Alan forged such a strong, loyal friendship as well as how Simon and Margaret eventually developed such a strong bond with each other despite their tempestuous beginnings.
Fulk's (Earl of Montlice) loud, boisterous insults (really his way of showing affection) had me chuckling a few times.
Overall, this was an enjoyable way to pass the time on a hot summer day relaxing in a (shaded) hammock.
I really admire Georgette Heyer's research and her incredible ability to give voice to her characters.
This was actually the first Georgette Heyer novel placed in my hands.
I have since started to read Arabella and more of her Regency type books...which I love completely!
I did skim this book a lot, because it was filled with so much information, at times.
I found that I would get lost in the Old English: dost, thee, thou, methinks, art thou.
Especially, when a character cries, 'Methinks you look very fine" or "Stop, art thou tired!".
This isn't a "typical Heyer" as it has the tone of a historical novel. We follow Simon as he gains a knighthood and property through his skill and persistence. He's uninterested in romance until he finally meats his match, but this happens more than halfway through the novel. Not much time is spent on the two characters interacting, so that romance happens pretty quickly. Considering how competent Simon was, I was very surprised that the author allowed Simon to be caught unawares at one point. Overall, though, I enjoyed the characters and how Simon managed things to get his way.

Before Rambo, there was Simon, the soldier's soldier, the self-made legend in his own time, hard and unyielding, except to little boys, who can twist him 'round their wee pinkies.
He's got no time for love, he thinks, but of course he falls for the first woman who tries to stab him.
As you might guess, this novel was not to my taste.
Actually, I had the most problems with the leading lady, who mostly reminded me of a 40's era silver screen star: spit-fire one moment, swooning the next.I will admit that the dialogue between the supporting couple was mildly amusing.
Heyer's take on an apparently autistic late medieval hero fighting with Henry V who doesn't really care much about anyone until he meets his match in a militant Frenchwoman. The edition I read has a note from Heyer's son saying that she didn't care much for the book and it didn't deserve to be reprinted. That is probably true, but although the story is the pits, the style, which has a sort of Malory-esque vibe, is interesting.
A partial disappointment and - here's a suggestion - don't read past about 66%. This is where the heroine enters and what a mess she is. In addition, I don't know who wrote this last bit but it has little polish, is poorly plotted and just destroys the earlier part of the book. But the first part is good and I liked Simon despite his cold heart - would it have remained so when he met the feckless heroine. Fair warning.
Immature Heyer, but still far more natural "historical" dialogue than any imitator past or present. Thank you to Heyer's son for disobeying her wish to suppress this early work.
To modern eyes, COMPLETELY sexist. But, if you read it with some tolerance for an earlier era, it's a sweet medieval romance. I like Simon's confidence, and the Lady Margaret's bravery.
One of Georgette Heyer's earliest books, and one which she did not remember fondly. Fortunately her son saw that it had its merits, and had it reprinted after her death. Simon is one of those characters know for his consistency: honest but unfeeling, principled enough to treat everyone fairly and with the respect they deserve. In service of King Henry in the invasion of Normandy, Simon (now Beauvallet) takes possession of the Castle of Belremy and of Lady Margaret. Not a Regency romance, but a real adventure tale.
I didn't enjoy this book as much as other Georgette Heyer's novels. However, it was one of her first books and the writing style did improve, the more she wrote. I am sure this would have suited someone a little younger than myself though!
I can see why she did not want it to be reissued. Not awful, but not a proper Heyer.
Loved this book even tho a much earlier timeline than this author normally writes about but she did a fantastic job! Great characterization and adventure!
Early Heyer book I guess. A bit uneven, but lovely medieval atmosphere. Loved Fulke.
3.5 stars
Some may argue he’s too good to be true, and although at times he borders on the supernatural, I think the author has created one of her best male characters here.She’s also created a great female character in the Lady Margaret, who in certain respects is similar in nature to Simon.
But the plot branches out more from here, as there’s storylines for the secondary characters, including love matches, but mainly we see Margret’s determination to thwart Simon who, in serving his king, must conquer the lady’s land.As mentioned, some chapters featuring Margret’s adventures are my favourite in the novel.
