https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/934407.Incredible_Victory
The Americans were bloody minded about Pearl Harbor and would have launched 29 sorties if they had had the planes and the men.In the end, Lord tells a story of which we all know the outcome in a way that reads like a blow-by-blow boxing match.
For the first time he felt really angry with the Japanese."Lord has also written the book I'll devour next, Day of Infamy, about the Pearl Harbor attack.
The book Incredible Victory, The Battle of Midway falls in the Non-Fiction genre, and as the title says it describes the battle of Midway.
I usually don’t read non-fiction, but I had read other books like this and found reading shorter ones entertaining, but Incredible Victory was much longer.
Non-fiction lets you think about what the people described were actually thinking at the time.
Lord describes in detail the battle from day one to several days later when both sides fallback to lick their wounds in the safety of home.
I think this one is a bit more focused on telling the stories of the people than on the facts than say his superb "A Night To Remember", which told the story of the maiden voyage of the R.M.S. Titanic, but overall the style of writing is similar.If there are any nitpicks to be had with "Incredible Victory", it's that the overall book is fairly short.
This is a concise, well told and very human story of one of the great battles of WWII and is well worth reading.
A classic one-volume account of one of the most critical battles in World History, this work about Midway immediately puts the reader right into the preparation and start of the battle.
This work was published within 30 years of the actual battles, so Lord had a great deal of personal recollections and memoirs to make use of for this work.
However, for a one volume starter account of the battle, this is still a great place to start (and not without reason is this work cited at the World War II Memorial in Washington D.C.).
Excellent Book On The Battle of MidwayExcellent read on the Battle of Midway.
The book read like a story providing pertinent details while not getting too deep into certain areas and losing continuity.
It highlighted how the battle came down to some key decisions as well as how it could have been a different result given a few minutes either way.It covers the sacrifice made by all participants in the battle and just how brutal this was in a short time span.I would highly recommend this book.
A fascinating readPerhaps like many others while I knew some history on the battle of Midway I'm afraid much of it was based on the movie "Midway".
While the movie was entertaining I feel the script writers both took liberties with the truth as well as not acknowledging many of the people who helped defeat the Japanese navy at Midway.
For example the movie doesn't mention Midway having any PT boats to help defend the island nor did it mention Pearl Harbor reinforcing Midway with troops and supplies.
I won't give away more of the errors of the movie, but will definitely recommend this book.
This much history tells us and much has been "glorified" in the near-75 years since it took place.Lord's objective look at the battle, though, shows that the American fleet won the day by superior intelligence (through code breaking), relentless preparation, and (most importantly), serendipity.
What I really liked about this book (written in 1967), was the interviews with both American and Japanese participants (and survivors) and how the reader is drawn into the objective circle that Lord portrays.

Feels like a first hand account.By telling this story from the perspective of both the Admirals and the enlisted men (from both sides), the book gives the feeling of 'being there'. This made it feel like I couldn't put it down until I finished. I didn't read it in one sitting; but I sure wanted to keep on reading the rest of the way through to the end of the war.
Walter Lord’s Incredible Victory is a Masterful Treatment of the Battle of Midway In barely 8 minutes the fate of the Japanese 4 aircraft carriers reversed the tide in the Battle of Midway. Walter Lord leaves little out as readers see the battle through the eyes of both Americans & Japanese.
The battle that stopped the Japanese NavyVery well written book covering a few weeks in 1942 in the South Pacific that turned the tide of WWII in favor of the U.S. Navy. Breaking the Japanese code before their aggressive push to capture Midway turned out to be the key to victory.
Well done!My dad's generation lived it, my generation knows the story. This should be required reading for anyone who studies WWII history. To Gen X and Mellinials this is ancient history. Well, it isn't, and has significance today.
Great account of a spectacular battle Loved reading this account of a great US victory. Loved hearing both the Japanese and American viewpoints. I understand midway so much more now
The battle of MidwayThis is an interessino book That shows both sides of contenders and their military way of thinking.The pace of the storytelling is nice and not boring and makes you fly. Sail and swim with the characters.
This is a great book. If you’re interested in World War II especially carrier battles this one is the book to set the bar against. The author brings the battle right to the pages. Simply one of the best books I’ve read on the subject.
A highly factual and yet down to earth presentation of those facts.Thank you Mr Lord and family for your investment into the "Incredible". I have studied the topic of Midway and I will continue, although your book is the best I have read so far.
Terrific History Book!This book is a history buff's delight. Walter Lord's writing style seems to put the reader in the middle of the action. Highly recommended.
Excellent account with firsthand interviews from a variety of personnel involved.
I'm a bit of a sucker for history books and while this wasn't necessarily a page turner for me, I did enjoy it!
17/20.
Fascinating readingThe story of Midway from both the American and the Japanese viewpoint. So much drama and so many screw ups and opportunities missed.
Like all the books by Lord that I've read, this is excellent.
GoodThis is a good book but the writing seems dated I was inspired to read it after reading The Fleet at Flood Tide. Nevertheless a good overview on the battle of midway
Thrilling and detailed!Personal stories of the main actors brings the action to life. No words are wasted in telling the whole story.
They beefed up Midway island with everything they could think that would help in the case of a Japanese landing and quickly repaired and gathered as many carriers and support craft as possible, allowing the US at least some ability to give the Japanese a good battle.
I don't think I ever knew about the submarine attack 2 days later that sank both the Yorktown and one of the battleships.
Nor did I know about the attacks on the other Japanese battleships after the main battle was over.
The writing style of the book is a bit too casual for my liking.
Also, the book (and it's not the only one) makes claims that have since been disproved, most notably that the Japanese carriers had planes on their flight decks and were just minutes away from launching their own airstrike when three of their carriers were hit and destroyed.It is interesting to see how writing styles have evolved over the years.
The author makes extensive reference to "Japs", a word that would never be used today.
The part of the book that I most enjoyed was all the personal anecdotes.
This is an "incredible" story of the human element of one of the greatest battles, and greatest naval victory, in American history.
Lord writes this book with such grace and pathos, the reader somehow becomes invested in the characters and the battle.
And yet, somehow the Americans rallied to pull this fight out of the fire and not only save Midway but deal the Imperial fleet a blow from which they never recovered.A true David and Goliath story, Incredible Victory pays tribute to the indomitable human spirit and the fickle twists of fate and luck.
a very interesting book about certainly one of the most important events in world war 2, probably one of the most to be decided by chance events...
In the buildup to Midway a simulation of the battle is carried out where the result goes against the Japanese & 3 carriers sunk.
Instead of learning from this, the result is ignored & the Japanese then go on to lose 4 carriers in similar circumstances in the real battle.
Once I started this book,it did not take long before I could not put it down.
The stories of life lost and honor are telling from both sides.
Honor and freedom were at stake, and for each side country loyalty was defined by tradition, flag, and national anthem.
In the end the American Flag remained flying despite the terrible losses of men and ships.
I will never kneel before her during the National Anthem because I own our history and respect the men and women throughout history who have paid dearly to make her better with each generation.
A fine detailing of a turning point in WWII.
The narrative descriptions are so well done it's as if Walter Cronkite had returned to TV for another episode of You Are There.The history is told from both the U.S. and Japanese point of view while the author gives meaning to what the struggle means to the people of both countries.
It also reveals the heroism of so many young fighter pilots who attacked the Japanese fleet with outdated airoplanes while the surperor Japanese zeros outmanuvered and shot so many down.
It gives a feel of pride to see how the bravery and determination of the U.S. fliers resulted in the final victory.
