https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/79379.Violets_Are_Blue
According to this book, here are James Patterson's 7 Golden Rules of Writing:1.
Write simple sentences.
Don't use big words or describe people wearing colors other than black or "powder blue."2.
He has to bemoan his life yet cheer himself on in the next breath, reminding himself how great he is.
If that doesn't work, have other people say the same thing.
Bemoan, cheer, repeat!3.
Bemoan, cheer, repeat!3.
Don't worry about the accuracy of anything you write.
Kill a lot of people.7.
You've got to write off that trip to Vegas for your taxes somehow...Wow!
I always enjoy an Alex Cross book.
I like his family and I like the way he tries to be a good father to them.
It makes a good background for the rest of the action.And of course there is action aplenty.
At last Alex is closing in on his nemesis, the Mastermind.
However Alex did not realise until the last chapter which still made the whole thing very exciting and not a little stressful.This is a typical James Patterson book with short chapters, constant action, lots of murders and some really nasty villains.
This was one of my favorite Alex Cross books yet.
I loved the vampire crime plot!
I’m a fantasy& sci-fi book genre fan so it really excited me to read this one.
As for the Mastermind crime plot, I was glad it didn’t extend into further books where Alex would not know who the Mastermind was because I feel like that would have became overdone.
The suspense of him finding out was just right, in my opinion.
It will be interesting to see where he goes career wise.
My quick & simple overall: An entertaining, one-sitting installment that kept me up till well after midnight so I could finish it.
Number 7 in the Alex Cross series.This is a particularly macabre little story.
The highly visible villains are sociopathic, wannabe vampire, brothers.
Who, with prosthetic vampire teeth, bite their victims to death and then drain them of their blood.
The more important villain, the mastermind, is invisible to everybody including Alex Cross.Alex, along with help from the FBI, is in hot pursuit of the vampires.
As good as Alex is, the brothers always seem to one step ahead.
This is typical James Patterson, short chapters with lots of death and violence.Nothing much to stretch the brain, just a quick, easy and entertaining read.Recommended for lovers of murder and mayhem.
Alex Cross #7- oh what a disappointment! Not going to trash this series or James Patterson- I really to love the Alex Cross series- all the psycho, crazy, serial , insane, cut up the bodies and send them to you type books- but this one wasn't one of his best... IMO. Not giving up on this series- I'm late to the party with these books- started from book number 1 and I'll keep on going.... some people may like this story- it just wasn't for me. On to book number 8 in the sometime future!
However I was wrong, The Mastermind was the best aspect of this book.
This book follows The Mastermind who is back - and he's hot on Alex Cross's trail.
Is it vampires?The Mastermind plot really picked up this time round.
Yes it was exciting and so intense but also I really wanted Alex and his family free from harm as I've really grown to love the family.
The two storylines didn't go together at all and I found myself wanting to skip these parts of the book.
Purely worth a read just for the gripping Mastermind plot!
This is my second novel by American author James Patterson.
The first Patterson novel I have read is HIDE AND SEEK which I rated two (2) irreplaceable and stinky stars because it failed to court my inner bookworm side.
And I must say, he failed me again.Right now, the efficiency of what Stephen King said about James Patterson's writings during an interview for USA Weekend is starting to sink in me.
Have you ever read a novel with characters saying the same thing over and over again?
Hoho.From this point on, I'll quit reading some of James Patterson's works.
As it turns out, a pair of brothers who just so happen to also be vampires are responsible for the attacks.
Known by the FBI for his ability to profile killers better than just about anyone else, Dr. Alex Cross is brought in to investigate and is terrified beyond anything he has ever experienced before in his life.
For you to be able to finish this book, you have to believe that there are actually people who think of themselves as vampires.
Even though I do believe that, it was still a bit strange to read.
The book before this one ended with a Cliffhanger.
Unusual for Patterson, not to solve the case within the book but continue the chase in a second novel.
Fortunately I had the sequel at hand (half of my books are in Germany, the other in Austria...so they're not always available right away for me)New main characters (for this new case) are presented, including 2 vampire-like siblings and 2 guys that reminded me of "Siegfried & Roy", and I'm sure Patterson got his inspiration for them in Las Vegas.
Additionally he still has to catch the killer from "Roses are Red".
This will be my last JP book. It seemed like a recap of all the other books and I kept thinking "why can't he come up with some new material??" I've read all the others and didn't need to spend another 8 hours recapping. Yes - there was a new pretty good story but I got hung up on the numerous references to all of the past books.
I had to say this was one of my favourite of the Alex Cross series. I found the story creepy and I could totally picture it as a movie. I really like how it went over some of the stuff that happened in the previous books. Still wish I loved this series more than I do but I have hope that it is going to continue to get better and better. Good Read!
The Mastermind is back.But this book was kind of boring to me.
She was murdered by the Mastermind, who was introduced in Roses are Red. Of course he calls Alex to taunt him which of course was predictable.However, Alex doesn't just have to deal with his old nemesis in this book.
It was kind of meh and even though it had some twists and turns - I saw most of it coming a mile away.
The thing I didn't see coming was Craig, and no, I wont tell you what happened.
I really just hope that the next book will be a lot better.
Vampires! Or are they? Alex Cross encounters a most bizarre case in which the bodies of slain joggers are hung and drained of blood. And not just one case but many of similar circumstances throughout the country. And on top of this, Cross's nemesis, the Mastermind, continues to taunt and stalk. This book is especially captivating to those who have already read Roses Are Red -- I can say no more.
Υπάρχουν βρικόλακες στην εποχή μας; Πώς γίνεται τα πτώματα που αρχίζουν να εμφανίζονται να έχουν δαγκωματιές στον λαιμό και ούτε στάλα αίμα; Μήπως όλα αυτά είναι μια μασκαράτα για τελετές σατανισμού; Κι αν όχι; Ποιο ανθρώπινο πλάσμα έχει τόσο αιχμηρούς κυνόδοντες και τέτοια ακόρεστη δίψα για αίμα;Μετά τον τραγικό θάνατο της Μπέτσι Καβαλιέρε και τη δύσκολη υπόθεση του προηγούμενου βιβλίου, «Το μεγάλο κόλπο», ο Άλεξ Κρος θέλει πλέον οριστικά να αποσυρθεί από την Αστυνομία και το FBI, να ιδιωτεύσει και να ζήσει με την οικογένειά του: τα τρία του παιδιά (την οχτάχρονη τώρα Τζάνι -εξάχρονη στο «Μεγάλο κόλπο», χμ…-, τον δεκάχρονο Ντέιμον -ίδιας ηλικίας στο «Μεγάλο κόλπο», ξαναχμ…- και τον μόλις ενός έτους Άλεξ Τζούνιορ -αυτός έμεινε ακέραιος) και τη γιαγιά του, Νάνα.
I usually try to make it my business not to read any books relating to either werewolfs or vampires.
This book had two stories going on at the same time....the vampire invasion and the return of "The Mastermind".
One thing Patterson is definitely good at is bringing you up-to-date with what's happened in his past books so you're not totally lost when you're reading his current offering.
Just to think that something like this could possibly exist (please tell me it doesn't) is enough to keep me from reading another vampire book in my lifetime.
This book reads like a Thanksgiving supper.
What an appropriate simile and book for this time of year.
Alex Cross travels across the country on the trail of vampires.
Little intrigues and personal dramas add side dishes to fill the table with mundane life while the bad guys do their best to disrupt the day.
If I am to be completely honest, this isn’t one of his best books.
Even the best ball players don’t always hit home runs and occasionally strike out.
I’m not suggesting that this book is a strikeout but it is only a single or double base hit.
This was a detective/ crime story but it was so immersive due to its baffling murders and intriguing plot.
I feel like most books nowadays that are written for young adults have some kind of inclusion with vampires in the story, and to me this is a huge turn off when reading a book due to the major overuse of this type of character.
Overall though, this is an intriguing read and I enjoyed it once I got over the whole vampire thing.I would recommend this to anyone who likes murderous vampires and a great story plot.
Another quick read featuring psychologist/detective Alex Cross and a continuing nemesis, the Mastermind. Although the reader found out who the Mastermind was at the end of the last novel, Alex has yet to tease it out. He's also got his hands full running across the country (San Francisco, Las Vegas, Savannah) after some real sickos. No surprises here - this is full of the staccato chapters and twists and turns that Patterson is known for. And don't expect deep themes - it's simple (but fun) mind candy.
I do enjoy a good Alex Cross book by Patterson. This book had Cross hunting "Vampires". While delving Into the World of "real life Vampires" who drain their victims of blood, Cross is also tormented by the Mastermind who toys with Cross by killing those close to him. Keeping true to form, Patterson has short chapters but constant action. This was a page Turner for me.
I enjoyed this book but I was surprised with ending.Soon I will move on to the next one in the series.
3.5 stars.Of all the books in the Alex Cross series, this one was the hardest to get into for me. For some reason I just wasnt "feeling it" for about first half of the book. I kept putting it down and read other stuff in between. Thankfully I didnt give up on it because the second half was really, really good. Even so good that I stayed up until 1 am last night to finish it!!It wont reach the 4 star mark though because of the slow beginning for me.
3.5 stars.Of all the books in the Alex Cross series, this one was the hardest to get into for me. For some reason I just wasn´t "feeling it" for about first half of the book. I kept putting it down and read other stuff in between. Thankfully I didn´t give up on it because the second half was really, really good. Even so good that I stayed up until 1 am last night to finish it!!It won´t reach the 4 star mark though because of the slow beginning for me.
Wild setting, bizarre characters, like an authorial need to work on excitement. Still that nagging sense of less than professional FBI work. Too much repetition, in the text and in the characters. That sense of anger as a driving force, that tenacious never say die spirit, the suspense: great. Glad to seemingly complete a story, but it does add suspense. I’m used to depressed detectives, to constant danger, but this guy could be happier; he has happy moments, but he just tells us, too often. I wish I knew his love for music like I know Heironimus Bosch’s.
I can't believe I finished this book. I wanted an easy, no-brainer read during the crazy, busy school year and it fulfilled it's purpose. It was so stupid, all about vampire murders. Not sure how I got through it? I've read other books by Patterson and this wasn't one of the better ones.
Alex Cross got bit by a boy who claims hes a vampire and got an infection because he didnt go to the hospital right away.When he was at his house sleeping the mastermined went broke into his house in the middle of the night with intentions of killing him but did not because his daughter laid by his bed the whole night waiting for him to recover.
When he killed both of the brothers he found the sir which is the guy that was the vampires boss and before he got to even question him Kyle shot him.I liked this book it was better than the first one because it had more action.
At the end of Roses are Red, we figure out who the Mastermind is.
Violets are Blue kicks off in true Patterson bang up form, but Cross still has no idea who Mastermind is.
Cross figures out who it is at the very end of this book.
In the event that the books have not been read in order, I am not going to reveal it here.
You read that right.
At first I didn't think I was going to like this book as much as the previous ones.
This was another fine installment for Patterson/Cross.
Hugely disappointing follow up to the amazing Roses Are Red. The whole plot was a little far fetched to be honest and what I was most looking forward to with this book, was Alex's inevitable meeting with The Mastermind - the nemesis that had been taunting him for the entire previous book.
Alex's reaction just didn't compute with how he must have truly have felt upon discovering the identity of The Mastermind.
All in all, I can't help feeling a little bit cheated with this particular instalment of Alex Cross and can only assume that Mr Patterson was perhaps too engrossed in other projects at the time of writing this one.
I thought this was one of the best Alex Cross books that James Patterson has written since "Kiss the Girls." The story line was just so different from the others. Alex also got into a new love interest. Patterson is very good with imagery. It makes me creeped out to go downstairs in my dark house after I'm done reading, as weird as it sounds. I recommend this book to people who are already reading the Alex Cross series because the books just keep getting better and better.
wow another amazing book:)
4 stars. Another fun book in the Alex Cross series.
He’s the killer!!!”So this book did touch on a little bit of the paranormal in the sense that Alex was learning about vampire culture because well you know the victims were being bit… like bitten by humans!I thought I would appreciate that but it was more than a little disturbing.
Also I like Jamilla WAY WAY WAY WAY more than I like Christine, she and Alex seems to get on way better and she is in law enforcement… Win win.I thought the vampire party with Daniel and Charles to be super cool, I caught myself wondering if I could find one of those in real life… not that I want to get bit or anything like that but it would be a fun atmosphere!Finally though, he figures out that Kyle is the mastermind… I was pulling my hair out trying to figure out when he was going to get it!
