https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/74532.George_s_Marvellous_Medicine
Afterwards it was time for questions, one annoying girl (who looked strangely like Princess Leia from Star Wars) persisted in asking me, several times, if I didn’t realise that this was a “kid’s book.” She couldn’t understand how I could be reading it at my age; she even went as far as to call me childish.
She went after me and gave her presentation on  The Golden Compass  which she said, whilst looking at me, with her nose up in the air, was a book for adults.
If I could go back in time, I’d have a thing or two to say to that Princess Leia look-a-like.
As an adult, I find George to be quite the monstrous little demon as he joyfully poisons grandma.
Sure, the lady is grumpy and rude...but did he really need to make her disappear?
I worry for George's parents, should they ever displease the little psychopath.Now, George says he just wants to make her better medicine.
Even at eight, you'd know whether or not adding shoe polish and soap and paint and bottles and bottles of animal medicine would help or hurt your grandmother.
Sure, he did accidentally create magic.
Someone needs to monitor the young serial killer.Blog | Instagram | Twitter
I rather sympathized with little George, a basically good, polite, and obedient boy who does his best to please his fickle and ill-tempered granny, to no avail.
My attitude probably will not reassure adults who fret that undiscerning young readers may be inspired to emulate George's Graham Young ways, but this book is so crazy that I wouldn't be inclined to worry that children would take it as a life lesson.
Unless you think your kid wants you dead; in that case, yeah, I wouldn't give him or her this book.
Unless you're Granny.
I am currently trying to read all of Roald Dahl's books since he is such a phenomenal writer.
They use the rest of the medicine on the farm animals, causing them to grow too.
George's father decides that they should make more of the medicine and sell it to farmers around the world and create more large animals.
When George attempts to recreate his medicine, he is unsuccessful at remembering the ingredients.
The Grandma sees the cup of medicine that George was testing before and drinks the entire cup.
I really like Roald Dahl but this book...is a little scary.
I wouldn't let my child read it.
Introducing the idea into a child's head to create a concoction to add to a liquid medicine someone is currently taking is not something I want to do.
I also didn't like the language in the book.
She was a bit of a nuisance around the house, Wasn't she?"Um, this is NOT a good book for children.
نخندید به من. بالاخره باید کتابهایی که تو بچگی نخوندهم رو یه جوری جبران کنم دیگه :)))
نخندید به من. بالاخره باید کتابهایی که تو بچگی نخونده‌م رو یه جوری جبران کنم دیگه :)))
Well this was quick and quirky. I hope that this kid doesn't go into the medical field. He's far too willing to use dangerous stuff in his "medicines". I mean, engine oil and anti-freeze are fine, but flowers of turnips? What is he trying to do? Kill someone?? Wait. I'm not sure what the moral of this story is... 8 year olds can't be trusted with responsibility because they'll muck it all up? Or Grandmothers should only be nice or they deserve to be set on fire, inflated, super-stretched and then shrunk to nothing? Pretty sure it's that last one.
Never grow up...always down.I can safely say that Roald Dahl is the best children's books author. The way he pulls you into the story will never cease to amaze me.The only reason I'm giving this book 4 stars is because I've enjoyed Matilda and The Witches a little more. This still is a great book, that I've finished in a heartbeat, and I'm sure I'll re-read it again more than once.
The funniest thing about this book is the dedication page.
Instead of giving her the usual medicine, he concocts a replacement batch, hoping it will improve Grandma's disposition.
The medicine doesn't make Grandma any nicer, but it DOES have a remarkable effect on her, and on every creature they give it to.
George's dad wants him to make another batch, but there's a problem.
So every new batch he tries is missing something, and has a different effect when they test it on the farm animals.
Batch Number Four solves the Grandma problem permanently.
What's not to love about a Roald Dahl book? Loved the part with the grandma but it lost a little steam after that. Still liked it enough to make it a book club selection with some of my 4th graders.
I don't think this is appropriate for children. Young kids who read this might end up taking large gulps of shampoo or eating body lotions.. They also might end up hating their grandmothers and start calling them '' filthy hags''... Maybe I am missing something here.. But this book seemed too creepy to me. I do recognize Dahl's unique writing style though...and I have to admit I liked it a little bit. 2 stars because I want this way to advise parents against reading this to their children..
My seven year old thought this was the most shocking, funniest, most thrillingly disgusting book ever and she loved every minute of it. My four year old fell asleep about 1/4 of the way through but we carried her off to bed and then read the rest of the book together in one go, cackling madly with blankets wrapped around our heads.
I've been slowly (obviously!) making my way through it and it was George's time.WHY I Chose to Read It Much like with Agatha Christie, it was time for my annual dose of Dahl.WHAT Makes It A ClassicIt's one of Roald Dahl's lesser-known novels – a short and eccentric story about what happens when you get a taste of your own medicine.WHAT I Thought of This ClassicGeorge's Marvellous Medicine was super fun!
What happens when an 8-year-old boy tries to kill his horrible old grandma (who he believes is a witch) with a home-made concoction?
This isn’t the first time I read this story but I think I was able to appreciate how silly it was much more this time around. If anyone truly had ingested such “medicine”, I’m pretty sure much worse would have happened than in the story! But that’s what made it so funny and so enjoyable, the pure ridiculousness of it!
Published: 1981Author: Roald DahlRecommended for: children and pretty much everybodyThis is one of the absolute classic childrens books by the wonderfully talented Roald Dahl and teamed up with the outstanding Quentin Blake for the illustrations.
This book features George Kranky who ends up taking care of his Grandma who is possibly one of the most selfish people in his life, so when George gets a change to makes up his Grandma's medicine it is his turn to try and get the poisionous attitude out of her.
It is a brilliant and funny book for children and one that is most probably a firm favourite with most families.
Ο Τζωρτζ και η γιαγιά του αποτελούν ένα φοβερά αστείο ντουέτο σε αυτό το 'σκανταλιάρικο' και 'πονηρό' βιβλίο του Νταλ για ερασιτέχνες... αλχημιστές.Βαθμολογία: 4,3/5 ή 8,6/10.
Read as part of The Infinite Variety Reading Challenge, based on the BBC's Big Read Poll of 2003.I'm a bit baffled as to why this particular book made it on to the list.
I've not really heard about it and I had no preconceptions of it as I went in: just a few ideas of what a Dahl book is like.
Personally I think I would have enjoyed every single Dahl book more-and perhaps loved a few-if I'd have read them when I was a child as I did The BFG, as I'm not finding them too great as an adult.Blog | Instagram | Twitter | Pinterest | Shop | Etsy
چهقدر بدآموزی داشت :)))))آموزش چگونه حال مادربزرگ بدجنستان را بگیرید :دی
چه‌قدر بدآموزی داشت :)))))آموزش چگونه حال مادربزرگ بدجنستان را بگیرید :دی
I deserved a break: this children's book fit the bill.
George mixes a cocktail for his grouchy grandma and things go wrong.
This Dahl book really doesn't need any prose: the illustrations (of grandma's head popping through the roof of the house, for example) are good enough and thorough enough to tell the story.
A light, funny, children's work, great for a break from some rather heavy literature.
And from an adult's point of view: "That's a cocktail I'll need tonight after watching the evening news (any evening news).
And sometimes I wonder what, exactly, Dahl himself was mixing up when writing his books.
Have just read this for the umpteenth time with this year’s class. They love the story and it’s easy to do a really creepy screechy voice for grandma!
Tiring of being insulted, George takes it upon himself to concoct a little plan to seek his own form of revenge.
I once read that Dahl tends to create many of his adult characters in a very negative sense; soured folks who want nothing than to crush the spirits of little ones.
This story pits George against his awful grandmother, with the end result being a medicine that not only causes great mutations, but allows the younger generation to seek revenge for the antics of those who oppress them.
Well. That was super weird. I mean, yeah, it's Roald Dahl but . . . wow. That was SUPER WEIRD. Hilarious, and with a rather abrupt ending, I got the feeling that this was a bedtime story he had told his kids and then written down, more so than any of his other books.
Georges Marvellous Medicine tells the story of 8 year old George Kranky who lives on a farm with his mum, dad and his nasty old grandma.
It is George’s job to give his grandma her medicine at 11am every day.
The medicine has an unexpected reaction on the old dear and on all the animals that George ends up giving it too.
Georges Marvellous Medicine was written over 20 years ago.
Typical of all of Roald Dahl’s children’s books this story uses wonderful descriptions and exaggeration which children really enjoy.
I tried my hardest to hate this book, George is such a little psychopath, no matter how you read this book it is about attempted murder...at one time George even gets egged on by his Dad. But....the Grandma is such an evil old hag I soon found myself siding with George and relishing a big explosion.The writing is typical Roald Dahl, quirky, dark and humourous.
Considering the fact that I'm a big sucker for children's books, I can't deny that Roald Dahl holds a special place in my heart (naks) and I have read almost all of his books.I dunno, maybe I wasn't in a good mood when I read this or maybe I was just bored at the time but... (I hate to say this) for me  this is the most uninteresting book I have read written by him.
"I would never do that to my grandma."I'm glad my children reached this conclusion at the end of our book discussion. They were fascinated by the story though - the 7 year old, the 6 year old and the often-distracted 2 year old. This book gave me another reason to look forward to bedtime, as if I needed another reason.
I understand this is Roald Dahl, so you need to just sort of go with the flow and enjoy it as it comes.
We've all read Matilda, we know how that goes and all the wicked but funny things Matilda gets up to, and we laugh it off because they always deserved it.
George's grandmother may have been grumpy and annoying and lazy and demanding, but she wasn't necessarily cruel.
Now again, I KNOW this is a Roald Dahl book.
Maybe if I were a child reading this I'd be laughing at it and enjoying it tremendously.
I then went into class and read it.That book was George's Marvellous Medicine That book was a life changer.As I sat n that classroom alone I decided to open the book and start reading.
I was hooked and when the teacher returned and saw me enjoying myself she yelled at me but I stopped caring by then.George's marvellous medicine is about a boy who brews up a liquid to vaporize his awful grandmother, however he comes up with a solution which revolutionises the farming business.
As with all of Dahl's books this one is nasty but hilarious.
Another enjoyable read to my little ones at bedtime. Looking forward to the stage show in a few weeks!
