https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2621927-scientific-advertising
Then show them using their beauty, as women do use it, to gain maximum effect.”“Do nothing to merely interest, amuse, or attract… Do only that which wins the people you are after in the cheapest possible way.”“No one orange grower or raisin grower could attempt to increase the consumption of those fruits.
So the immediate bracing effects which people seek from coffee do not come from the caffeine.
We must consider individuals… We cannot go after thousands of men until we learn how to win one.”“… Don’t start advertising without distribution.
It puts you in the picture. That said, the book is indeed rather outdated and the stuff that could be regarded, on the other hand, as everlasting principles is fairly commonsensical. So it's far from being an eye- opener, but what I know for a fact is that you don't lose squat giving it a read.
He invented the coupon for a reason most people wouldn't guess.
Claude Hopkins invented the coupon to 'track' sales.
His advice "track everything." Back in the days of newspaper and periodical advertising the cost was expensive.
With no free emailing tracking an advertisement was crucial.
He was a master at split testing (using more than one offer, tracking results, and finding the winner.) This book was written in the early 1900's and the principles are still as fresh today as they were then.
Human nature hasn't changed.
Just because we have more methods to get our messages out with doesn't mean the principles have changed.
As a copywriter, I found that this book is vastly helpful to figure out parameters used in writing a copy that sells.
If you are a creative worker, this book must discipline you in terms of business insights.Several "tested" claims in this book, among other things, are as follows:Minimalism doesn't always work.
In direct mail, the more you tell the more you sell (chapter 4).
This claim is consistent as at the beginning of the book, he writes that an award-winning ad doesn't necessarily mean that it's good relative to sales.
If you are familiar with his thinking models, you won't have difficulty to follow this book.
Not very scientific. Not a single reference to a real study. Still, some great ideas.
To be fair, there wasn't any scientific in this Claude Hopkins' book.Scientific Advertising emphasis on headlines and gathering information for creating a sparked-ad.What I wanted to learn from this book is, how to sell a product, which sadly I did not find.
Číst tuhle knížku před lety, ušetřil bych si spoustu zklamání a možná se kariérně vydal jiným směrem. Vřele doporučuji každému.
Instead of sales, they seek applause.Chapter 3 Offer ServiceRemember the people you address are selfish, as we all are.
Free trial for one week -> People can't resist the offer -> Lead to sales because the product was good or they want to reciprocateChapter 4 Mail Order Advertising: What It TeachesMail order advertising usually contains a coupon.
People like free stuff, e.g. free samples, free trials, and they want defer payment as long as possible-"Try the horse for a week.
Most people want to learn about any offered gift.2.
Probably one of the best books on direct response marketing, and its relationship to sales, ever written. Very practical and still applicable in a world driven by Google AdWords and social media advertising. To sum up in the author's own words:Advertising is salesmanship
An all-time classic.Read it or lose money.Read it or get lost in creativity.Read it or get lost in pride. Have you read it yet?
This book is mostly anecdotes and advice from a successful advertiser nearing the end of his career.
It is a plea for advertisers to have a more scientific mindset when it comes to evaluating the effectiveness of ads and making changes to better improve returns.
For example, toothpaste commercials will show yellowed teeth turning white.
Hopkins stresses that advertisers should just show the white teeth; the viewer already knows about the yellow part.
I'm assuming Colgate, and other huge advertisers, have done their 'science' and discovered that these negative ads do in fact work - that times have changed.That's the kicker here.
3 things that stood out to me from this book: 1. The more you tell, the more you sell 2. if you can prove it on a small scale, the numbers will hold up on a larger scale, once you know it works for 1,000 it will work for 1,000,0003. Although this was written quite a while ago, the principles still hold true, understanding why your customer wants something and positioning your product or service as a solution is what will get the job done.
Too much fluff, and poorly edited fluff at that.Don't get me wrong, there is actually quite good information contained within. But, rather than a malingering e-book, this (seriously useful) data should have just been presented as a one or two page PDF. I would have still paid for it. In fact, I would have likely paid more to have it condensed. The rambling anecdotes and unnecessary side roads were wholly unnecessary.
I can see how this is a classic, but it's quite outdated. There are some useful universal insights there, but you've got to dig for them.Also, prepare for a dry reading experience. Don't expect any stories or even a sense of humour.
Many in the writing biz recommended this book, but it didn't ring with me. Maybe the writing style just didn't work for me.
3rd time this year I'm reading it.Recommended by most successful in the industry like John Carlton,Gary Halbert and David Ogilvy
أعجبني فيه شرح الأفكار بشكل مباشر ومختصر دون اللجوء إلى السرد الطويل والحشو بالقصص والذي يتبعه أسلوب التأليف الغربي الحديث، فالكتب الحديثة مليئة بالقصص والحشو الممل الذي يضيع القارئ وخصوصاً من لغته الأم غير الإنجليزية.الفصل الأول: تحدث عن تاريخ تأسيس علم الدعاية إذا هو مجموعة ممرسات الأفراد المتراكمة والتي جمعت في مؤسسات تنتقي أفضل الممارساتالفصل الثاني: المعلن يجب أن يتعامل كالبائع تماماً، فعند كتابة الإعلان فالهدف منه أن يقود إلى مبيعات، وشدد المؤلف إلى أن الممارسات السيئة لكثير من المعلنين سببها تركيزهم على إبراز مهاراتهم وقدراتهم واحترافيتهم في صياغة الإعلانات، وهو مايقود إلى تضييعهم بوصلة الاتجاه الصحيح ولا يؤدي الإعلان غرضه الأساس؛ فمعيار نجاح الإعلان هو زيادة المبيعات وليس تباهي المعلن بطرقه وأساليبه...الفصل الثالث: التركيز على تقديم خدمة.
Hoje o assunto "marketing" está tão atual depois do boom da internet que quase todo dia você vê pessoas com "sistemas novos" para ganhar resultados com marketing e propaganda online, e que estão cheios de besteira, "bullshit", nada, "nonsense".
Afinal é sobre isso que propaganda é "Venda impressa" e nada mais.Se você quer iniciar no marketing ou propaganda leia esse livro essencial para as seus negócios ele é a base e um "industry Standard" para copywritingSe você quer vender mais por e-mail ou qualquer meio de comunicação e quer ter uma base sólida e entendimento sobre propaganda.
Leia esse livro essencial para as seus negócios!!Se você já é profissional de marketing.
Headlines shouldn't try to grab anyone in, they should only appeal to people interested in your product/service.- Specificity is king.
Instead, using numbers, percentages, or specific facts make the ads more interesting and enticing.- A free sample is the best way for the customer to experience your product.
Bonus point, it makes you use the word "free" in your copy which is a great attention grabber.- People don't care about you and your product.
Don't talk about these in your ad, instead focus on the benefits the product/service has for the reader.- Don't use negative imagery in the ads.
Not all classics age well  Having studied social sciences for the past decade, the field of marketing is new to me.
In this regard, Hopkins's book does not disappoint - it gives a picture of the mindset with which professionals approached marketing as a precise discipline in the first half of the 20th century.
However, there is little practical guidance and many of the examples provided are half-shrouded in mystery.
As other reviewers have noted, for a book so insistent on its scientific approach, the text fails to provide any bibliography or reference to its methods.
Очень часто можно видеть, как продавцы всеми силами только и делают, что кричат: «Ну, купите у меня это, пожалуйста».
А в другом - более удачном варианте - более конкретные фразы: «оливкового и пальмового масла», «никаких других жиров и примесей», «Никакого искусственного подкрашивания», «Никакого тяжёлого запаха».И если уж вы решили описывать все факты и свойства товара или услуги, то, как пишет следующей главе Хопкинс, «сообщите ему всё, что только можете ему сообщить.
Поэтому, как дальше пишет Хопкинс, «используйте графику, которая привлечёт только тех, кто принесёт доход.
Как писал тот же Огилви: «Если говорят о рекламе, это плохая реклама.
When they do, those entertainment seekers are little likely to be the people whom you want.
That is one of the greatest advertising faults.
The book provides plenty of universal insights back in the old days and still hold true nowadays, but some are outdated in the digital age.The writing style and choice of words do make it hard for non-native English speakers like me to digest.
I think I would revisit this book for a few more times as the first reading was totally fragmented because the scientific aspect of the book somewhat makes it really dry to read.However, I think this is still a must-read for any advertiser to truly immerse in the essence of the industry.
"Nobody, at any level, should be allowed to have anything to do with advertising until he has read this book seven times."That was the first sentence in the introduction of this book (written by Ogilvy himself) and it just goes to show you the power of copywriting.The writing in this book is short and succinct.
Indeed, this makes sense since the first non-introduction chapter of the book teaches that advertising is just salesmanship but in print.
Whatever you do in real life when you are trying to sell something, you should do the same in print.
In questo breve prontuario vengono raccolte quelle che lo stesso Hopkins definisce le regole base per un advertising efficace che si basa su un metodo scientifico. Sicuramente è un testo che risente il peso degli anni, molte cose sono cambiate dal 1930, soprattutto in un ambito in grande crescita come il marketing che cerca di cavalcare ogni nuova tecnologia comunicativa. Non per questo risulta essere un libro inutile, anzi, oltre all'importanza storica, si possono carpire delle fondamentali nozioni di marketing che analizzando la pubblicità odierna sono ancora presenti anche se hanno cambiato forma o mezzo comunicativo.
This book truly teaches you how to advertiseI hate most books that say they’re going to teach an important skills, because all to often their filled with palaver and useless opinion and gimmicks. Not so with this book. This book will truly understand how to advertise, and why certain methods work based on fact. It’s obviously the result of years of research, therefore, what is in this book can be relied upon as truth as oppose to simply one popular mans desirable but utterly worthless opinion. Read this book if you want to advertise properly. You will have no regrets.
I'd like to echo what others have said and let people know that this book can be found for free at the Library of Congress website.This is the second book I've read as part of my self-teaching curriculum to be a copywriter. It's a short read (less than 100 pages). But each page wastes no space. There were some pages where I felt as if I was absorbing years and years of experience/information in just a few sentences. There are many useful nuggets in this short read. I really recommend reading this book.
This is a great book, but I wish I had read it prior to Hopkins’s companion work, My Life in Advertising.Many of the examples are the same in both works, and while the detail in this volume is good, it would have been much more efficient for the reader to edit them into a single volume. In this way, the method and the illustration would have been more valuable all round.But it is an excellent work, and highly recommended for anyone in publicity, advertising, marketing, copywriting, or other forms of persuasion.
Old but still relevant For a book written so long ago, it truly is amazing how much of this book is still useful. I am going to re-read several of the chapters, just to take all the information in. There are a few chapters I didn't find particularly fitting for my line of advertising, but all in all I learned a ton.
It’s a quick and easy read but unless you lack all common sense than this has nothing to add. The only part I found worthwhile was the part on securing distribution and even that was overly short to be of much use. If you know nothing of adevrtisibg and critical thinking is not your strong suit, by all means read this book. Skip it otherwise
Very good outline of the basics in advertising.This would be both a good starting point for people starting to dip into the principles of advertising, as well as a good reminder for seasoned vets that may be bogged down deep into the technical world of social media advertising.Definitely a must for a new startup founder, or solopreneur.
