https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13553342-bats-in-the-belfry
RTC
MacDonald does, at one point, make a rather unbelievable leap of intuition, but for the most part the mystery is solved by conscientious fact-checking of alibis and identities, following suspects and making good use of forensic evidence.The book is based in London – one of my favourite locations for crime novels – and Lorac is wonderfully descriptive in her writing, especially in the way she highlights the ancient and modern jostling side by side in the city, with short alleys leading from offices and factories to quiet little residential squares that seem unchanged by the passing centuries.
There’s some great bits of atmosphere in here — the Belfry is genuinely creepy-sounding, and the foggy interludes too.
I also appreciated that the solution is arrived at mostly by solid routine police work, not wild leaps of intuition or luck.Definitely good enough that I’m picking up another of Lorac’s works, even if most of the characters are pretty unlikeable.
(The cold, hard, cheating wife who is an actress and doesn’t forgive her husband’s lack of success, bleh.) I wasn’t expecting miracles, and thus enjoyed it accordingly.Reviewed for the Bibliophibian.
A new ' forgotten' golden age detective writer to add to my growing list! She writes very well and creates a wonderful sense of 1930's London. The plot is very far-fetched but that is fine, a lot of detective stories are. There are humorous touches- the butler being called Samuel Weller made me smile. The thing that let it down for me slightly were the characters. They were a little underdrawn, as was the detective. I do hope the British Library release more of Lorac's books, I would definitely read them.
Lorac threw suspicion on everyone, even on the two people I refused to believe guilty no matter the efforts of the author to sully their characters.
They were just too nice, but however reluctant I was to believe it, they just might be the murderers.
I started to suspect who was really guilty about three-quarters of the way through, but I wasn’t really sure.
Maybe because it was so fast and wild, or because we never do figure out what happened to several of the main characters.
Two of the main characters can’t seem to say two sentences without swearing.
Richard Grenville wants to marry Elizabeth, but her guardian, unsuccessful novelist Bruce Attleton, won't let her marry yet. Attleton has other problems, too, including an unfaithful wife and, apparently, a persistent blackmailer. When he fails to meet his good friend in Paris, Grenville is one of the people who tracks him to a mysterious old studio (with belfry) where his blackmailer has been seen. The discovery of Attleton's suitcase, complete with passport, in the coal cellar brings the police into the case, and puzzling discoveries abound. The book was written in the 1930's.
E.C.R. Lorac’s Bats in the Belfry:A London Mystery was written during the ‘golden age’ of British crime fiction in the 1930s.
Loving London as I do, I thought this mystery would be intriguing to read, and I was not wrong.
The characters in many ways appeared to be a bunch of misfits, but they except one were all friends with one having a female ward.
I really liked the Chief Inspector.
I liked him more than any of the other characters.
This mystery among others are published by British Library Crime Classics, and classic this one is.
If you like classic British mysteries, maybe you might give this one a go!
I had never read anything written by this author, but I know I will be trying more of her work. This was a nice mystery with several suspects, that kept me wondering. I really enjoyed the atmosphere, characters and plot.
The opening to ‘Bats in the Belfry’ has to be one of the best openings I’ve read in this series – a family gather at a funeral and talk turns to murder and the best way to dispose of a body.
This book makes for a wonderful example of an early police procedural novel and reading one from 1937 is fascinating.
I like the police procedural element and I loved the atmosphere.
The discovery of the body and the way it is hidden is certainly a lot darker than most cosy crimes and that made the book for me.
And while Greenville does at first do some Sherlocking, he soon discovers “that there wasn’t any glamour about a murder case in which you knew the parties involved.”The author spends a lot of time patting herself on the shoulder and saying “Look how much more realistic my stories are than those of those other writers who let lords or old ladies with no police experience solve cases!” And yes, in real life amateurs shouldn’t try to solve cases on their own.
When he doesn’t complain about amateurs meddling in police-work he is quite funny and not some genius asshole who insults everyone who disagrees with him.
Some of the atmospherics are easier to portray than others, of course, but others are more difficult.When we read something written long ago, for example, Austen’s “Pride and Prejudice,” we expect that things will be very different.
This book, set in a recognizable London, with telephones, cars, cigarettes, etc, nevertheless presents us with attitudes and beliefs, taken for granted by the writer and the characters, which historical mysteries have trouble portraying, because we, and the society in which we live, have so markedly changed.
Reasons for that are because female usually pay more attention to detail, and the ways they approach art are very different from that of the male.
E.C.R. Lorac was certainly one exceptional female crime writer."Bats in the Belfry" is one of the fine examples in the genre from the golden age of crime fiction.
The master mind behind the crimes gives the authority a puzzling case to crack.
There are enough drama to keep readers' minds busy and perplexed until the very last page.I enjoyed Lorac writing immensely.
Fans of classic crime fiction will not be disappointed with "Bats in the Belfry."
When Bruce Attleton doesn't turn up in Paris as planned his friends fear something sinister has occurred. His suitcase and passport are found in a artist's studio in London called the Belfry. Published in 1937 this is a police-procedural in London with Inspector MacDonald on the case.
The subtitle is very appropriate.Although Lorac is firmly placed in the second rank of writers, I thought this plot compared well to many from the 1930’s.This edition comes with a short Introduction by Martin Edwards from which we learn:-“The opening scene, set on an evening in March, introduces us to most of the people who will play a central part in the story, including Bruce Attleton and his glamorous wife Sybilla, their friends Thomas Burroughs, Neil Rockingham, and Robert Grenville, and Bruce’s ward Elizabeth.
Bats in the Belfry: A London Mystery (British Library Crime Classics ) (Kindle Locations 39-43).
Bruce Attleton and Mr. Debrette disappear about the same time.
Friends and family believe Attleton went abroad, but his luggage and passport turn up in a London studio called the Belfry.
Inspector MacDonald investigates.
Searchers find a mutilated body in a cleverly disguised location.
Although slight doubts about its identity surface, it turns out to be Attleton.
Blackmail, affairs, imposters, and more add to the plot.
While the book itself suffers from being dated in writing style, the mystery's plot could probably still do well as a movie.
It commands the attention of the reader.
For my full review click on the link below:https://crossexaminingcrime.wordpress...
Attleton’s actress wife Sybilla, his ward Elizabeth Leigh, his good friend Neil Rockingham, journalist Robert Grenville and Sybilla’s “friend” Thomas Burroughs all offer suggestions on perfecting the fine art of murder, which proves to be a tad awkward for them when Attleton later disappears.
Coupled with the absenteeism and subsequent suspicious behaviour of Sybilla Attleton and Thomas Burroughs, there really is no shortage of people with an interest in the body found in the Belfry.The mystery contained in Bats in the Belfry is certainly a convoluted business but, happily, E.C.R. Lorac subscribed to the notion of “playing fair” when constructing a murder mystery and so there are plenty of clues available to help readers solve the case.
Although I enjoyed reading this novel - some classical crime readers may be disappointed by Lorac as she often adds facts only at the denouement stage (thus not playing fair with the reader) and this seems to be her major weakness so much so that right up until the end of the novel she could actual makes any one of characters the murderer and just concoct a motive.
One of the men, Mr Attleton, has gone missing, and there’s no evidence he ever went abroad for business as he planned to do.
There’s no shortage of people with motive, but once a body is turned up there’s a severe shortage of identifying features what with the head and hands missing.
The other thing that stands out for this mystery are the number of twists and turns.
If you like older mysteries that will expand your British slang and keep you guessing with all the red herrings, you should give this a try.
Originally published on my blog: Nonstop Reader. Bats in the Belfry  is a re-release of a classic golden age mystery by E.C.R. Lorac published in the British Library Crime Classics series by Poisoned Pen Press.I must admit I was unfamiliar with this gem of an author going into this book. I had taken a chance on poisoned pen titles before and I hadn't got a 'stinker' yet in the crime classics series (highly recommended), so I requested it and I'm so glad I did.For fans of classic British golden a
is a re-release of a classic golden age mystery by E.C.R. Lorac published in the British Library Crime Classics series by Poisoned Pen Press.I must admit I was unfamiliar with this gem of an author going into this book.
I had taken a chance on poisoned pen titles before and I hadn't got a 'stinker' yet in the crime classics series (highly recommended), so I requested it and I'm so glad I did.For fans of classic British golden age mysteries this one has it all.
This isn't gritty.
Characterization is sacrificed for plot in Bats in the Belfry.
If you wait until the end, the murderer is easily determined by seeing who has not either been killed or at least wounded yet.Written in 1937, the convoluted plot in Bats in the Belfry holds up well for modern audiences.
I was also surprised by the use of nouns for verbs (that practice that drives me crazy now) like corpsed for killed.
It is recommended for those readers that look more for plot than characterization in their fiction.
Scotland Yard's Chief Inspector Macdonald is called in to solve a mysterious disappearance which eventually becomes a murder mystery.
Fading author Bruce Attleton told people he was going to Paris for a few days, but he never got there.
The police especially Macdonald are portrayed in a favourable light: they are competent and thorough.This is an excellent golden age of murder whodunit novel.
The story demonstrates a detailed knowledge of London geography, which adds to the local colour and atmosphere.As to the mystery, Inspector Macdonald struggles to unravel an intricate plot.
I received a copy of this novel from the publisher via NetGalley.Bruce Attleton has been behaving strangely and reacting angrily when a Mr Debrette telephones him, so Bruce's friend Neil asks Robert (the man who hopes to marry Bruce's ward Elizabeth) to find out more about Mr Debrette while Bruce is abroad.
The lead detective, MacDonald was a likeable, wise and reassuring character, in contrast to the hapless and immature Robert, whom I really didn't take to.
- although on the whole it was satisfactory, and if MacDonald is sure he knows what went on, then that's good enough for me!
E R C Lorac seems to have been a forgotten author and I hadn’t heard of her until quite recently,so I’m pleased to say that I enjoyed Bats in the Belfry, which is set in London in the 1930s.
For a while the identity of the murdered man is in doubt – is it that of Bruce Attleton who had unaccountably disappeared or that of the mysterious stranger, Debrette who it seems had been blackmailing Bruce?Chief Inspector Macdonald of New Scotland Yard is called in to investigate Bruce’s disappearance.
Princess Fuzzypants here: I do enjoy a good modern mystery especially those starring cats but I do like to dip back into the classics from the Golden Age from time to time.
I had a great laugh earlier this week with some truly pawful writing in Son of a Gun in Cheek.
It only served to highlight the difference between overwrought writing and elegant writing.When you pick up a book like this, expect to read verse that uses words seldom seen in modern literature.
I give it four purrs and two paws up.
When Bruce leaves one day for Paris, Sybilla also leaves, for a "rest cure" not telling anyone where she is going.
However, Bruce is never seen again, never arriving in Paris, although his suitcase, along with his passport, is found in a crumbling house, soon to be demolished, called the Belfry in Notting Hill.
This tale completely engrossed me from the very first page, and although I was positive I knew "who dun it," I was totally wrong.I am enjoying these reprints of golden age mysteries, part of the "British Library Crime Classics" series, immensely.
This is, I believe, the second tale from Lorac I have read--loved them both--and will be looking for more.
This one was a corker.Bruce was a promising literary star, but his shine fizzled out and he was overshadowed by his wife Sybilla who after some years was fed up with him but was never willing to do anything about his philandering ways.
When Bruce on a sudden overnight trip vanishes without trace and his suitcase along with his passport is discovered in a decrepit building the search commences.
Everyone of his friends are suspect, his wife cannot be found for a couple of days and there are various suspects which keep popping up.
This is a very odd book, and one of the quirkiest I've read for a long time.
I found myself asking: did people really speak like this?
I also enjoyed this author's knack for excellent description of the characters' surroundings.If you're a fan of equality and modern life, as well as graphic descriptions of blood and guts, you might not enjoy this book.
If however like me you are prepared to keep going despite the oddness, it's an interesting insight into a forgotten time, and an excellent portrayal of social history.Would I read it again?
This was one of the best books I’ve read lately.
The story has every great quality of a Golden Age Mystery, but it can be considered unique since the actual crime-solving happens at the hands of a Scotland Yard agent, MacDonald, and not some amateur sleuth or a retired police officer.
He’s one of the most intelligent crime-solving characters I’ve encountered while reading murder mysteries.
I thought the author was extremely successful in his portrayal of the British Police and their methods to solve mysteries.
This book is certainly a must read and I would recommend it to all fans of mystery.
The characters are well drawn and the sense of place is good.
I especially liked the detective with his Scottish good sense.
I liked the young girl Elizabeth who disliked her guardian but realised at the end what he had taught her, but I think one of the most interesting characters is the young reporter who wants to marry her but her guardian won't allow it as she is only 19.
