https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/13198856-the-cruise-of-the-rolling-junk
Scott Fitzgerald and his somewhat nutty but beautiful wife Zelda.
The book comes with photographs of Scott, Zelda, and the Rolling Junk as the adventure happens.
So it is very much a period piece of its time - but what's contemporary is the mental attitude of Fitzgerald as he and Zelda wonder back into the Southern past, that for sure will bring failure.
Like the image of most male americans, Fitzgerald is not one with his car.
The trip ends as a failure of sorts, and Fitzgerald for sure sees this as an aesthetic that things rot from the inside to the exterior.
Falls ihr von Fitzgerald vielleicht schon mehr als ein Buch last und den starken autobiografischen Einfluss mochtet, dann werdet ihr mit "Die Straße der Pfirsiche" auf jeden Fall große Freude haben.
Leider empfand ich Zelda Fitzgeralds Schreibstil am Anfang als sehr künstlich und gestelzt, erst am Ende bricht sie das Ganze mit feineren und stilsichereren Metaphern auf.
Der dritte Text ist ein Auszug eines Interviews mit Zelda und Scott, in denen die beiden sich ein bisschen selbst loben und in dem deutlich wird, wie wenig sie eigentlich ohneeinander sein können.
Natürlich musste ich als 'Fan' der Fitzgeralds dieses Buch lesen.
Dieses Buch ist ein Reisebericht, der davon erzählt, wie Zelda eines Morgens Pfirsiche will und Scott beschließt mit ihr in ihre Heimat (die Südstaaten) zu fahren.
Natürlich, habe ich das!
Scott schafft es dennoch wunderbar das Lebensgefühl der 20er fernab der Partys einzufangen, die Rebellion der Flappers und einen Road Trip in dem Rolling Junk.
Abgerundet wird das Buch durch eine Geschichte geschrieben von Zelda, einem Interview mit Zelda und Scott und einem Nachwort.
Wer sich mit den Fitzgeralds beschäftigen will, dem empfehle ich weiterhin das Buch 'Wir brechen die 10 Gebote und uns den Hals' als Einstieg.
If F. Scott Fitzgerald had a tumblr, this would be what would be in it.
The piece of writing that emerged out of this trip was a long article titled “The Cruise of the Rolling Junk.” Fitzgerald wrote it in 1922, but wasn’t able to find a publisher for it until 1924, when it appeared in Motoring magazine.
That sentence reads: “She sat with Delannux on the side of a beached raft while the sunset broke into pink picture puzzle pieces that solved themselves in the dark west.” (I’d Die for You and Other Lost Stories, p.93) “The Cruise of the Rolling Junk” is an interesting piece of work for fans of Scott and Zelda, but it’s best taken with a large grain of salt, as I doubt everything that Fitzgerald wrote down actually happened.
É um prazer tão grande quando descobrimos perdido num alfarrabista um título do qual ouvimos falar em tempos, e a preço irrisório."A Viagem da Velha Sucata" não é o texto mais famoso de F.
A premissa de base foi uma impulsiva viagem que Scott Fitzgerald e a sua mulher Zelda empreenderam desde o norte dos Estados Unidos da América, onde viviam, até Montgomery, nos estados do sul, onde Zelda crescera.
A viagem que começou pelo desejo pelos saborosos pêssegos do sul foi empreendida num desgastado calhambeque, nas estradas de 1920.Pela sua dimensão compacta, não se trata de um livro de viagens muito aprofundado, mas é um relato encantador do que era viajar de carro naquela época, além de também revelar um pouco o tipo de relacionamento do famoso casal.
Das Buch war zwar sehr unterhaltsam für zwischendurch, konnte mich aber leider nicht so sehr überzeugen, wie die anderen Geschichten, die ich bisher von F. Scott Fitzgerald gelesen habe :( der Essay von seiner Frau hat mir auch leider gar nicht zugesagt :( aber ich fand das Nachwort von Alexander Pechmann richtig super ❤
I couldn't help notice the familiarity of images that seem to lay the groundwork for The Great Gatsby.
Each mention of "Dr. Jones's Guide Book" and I couldn't shake the image of the "eyes of Dr. T.J. Eckleburg" on the billboard opposite the Wilson's garage.
Elements of the character of Daisy Buchanan can be glimpsed in Fitzgerald's portrayal of Zelda driving and skiving.
Regrettable that it sold for a pittance yet that it did reflects Fitzgerald's own sense of self that provides a constant foil to Hemingway's boastfulness.
The Cruise of the Rolling Junk" is frivolity at its finest, yet one catches a glimpse of the pending tragic outcome.
Racconto delizioso, antesignano dei racconti on the road " .. essere giovani,destinati alle colline lontane,andare dove la felicità è appesa ad un albero...inseguire le strade bianche dall'alba al levarsi della luna...."Nato per una rivista di viaggi, respinto piu' volte e piu' volte adattato e tagliato per esser finalmente pubblicato. Secondo l' autore era stato concepito per fare soldi e non letteratura,ma tanto di cappello al genio di Scott Fitzgerald.
Fitz had a wonderfully engaging writing style. If you've ever taken a long road trip, you'll relate, but road conditions were much more primitive back then and the cars extremely unreliable. All in all a rollicking road trip, but Fitz is somewhat of a ditz when it comes to mechanical issues and otherwise. His impressions of blacks will give you pause.
I feel like I should say I am a huge Fitzgerald fan, there's really nothing the man wrote that I dislike before giving my opinion on this little book.
His imagery is amazing and I think he can make you see and feel things like no one else.Beyond the fact that I always enjoy his writing, I really enjoyed his humor.
Even though I wasn't all that initially interested, I found myself looking forward to the next time I would be able to read a few pages.
If you're a Fitzgerald fan, I think this is a must.
Paul Theroux and Julian Evans had some very enlightening and insightful thoughts on how the apparently spontaneous and fateful journey Scott and Zelda took in the early years of their marriage paved the way for the often tragic and short lives that followed after.
Evans also highlighted how the prevailingly beautiful language and ideas in The Great Gatsby seem to have their beginnings in some of the pages of this memoir.
It goes without saying that Fitzgerald’s attitudes towards black people is somewhat jarring, however it’s necessary to remember that 1920 was a very different world to 2018.
Otherwise, this is a beautifully written, if somewhat fictionalised account of two fascinating people on a journey of impulse and calamity.
Il “Rottame Vagante” è l’unica testimonianza di Scott Fitzgerald nei panni di scrittore di viaggi. Un racconto on-the-road, un diario di bordo di un epico viaggio da Westport (Connecticut) a Montgomery (Alabama).
Sinceramente, recomiendo esta pequena obra. Es hilaricamente divertida e ingeniosa, lo simple lo convierte en complejo y viceversa. Es interesante como una simple travesia de la vida diaria puede dar tanto material literiario ingenioso.
Loved it.
If you didn't know Scott and Zelda's ultimate tragic history, and you weren't bothered by casual racism, this book would be a real romp!
Meh.
The road trip aboard the rolling junk is one that is imaginative, idealistic and romantic.
Post-war America was as much a rolling junk as Fitzgerald's Expenso.
We have to accept the absurdity of our existence as a prerequisite, the junkness of our being, before we can rationalise, before we can roll ahead.Another possible interpretation (on my part) is a prophetic predetermined failure predicted by Fitzgerald of the American Dream.
It did not matter which destination the Expenso rolled to.
Fitzgerald's emphasis on "rolling" might just suggest that the road trip, the scenery, the metamorphosis, mattered more than what it would become.
Desde la nada útil guía de carreteras, pasando por la falta de dinero, un automóvil que se cae a trozos y un sardónico sentido del humor que irradia la pareja, sobre todo Zelda.Esta es una obra menor de Fitzgerald, comparada con los exitosos "El Gran Gatsby" y "Suave es la noche".
En "El Gran Gatsby", el autor refleja en el protagonista el alma atormentada del protagonista, dejando claro que los años 20 no fue aquella época llena de brillo y glamour que todos pintan.
Amusing enough, but as Evans points out:What is apparent and painful in “The Cruise” is that Fitzgerald’s attitude toward Black Americans is unforgivably breezy to a point of pure ignorance.
But Fitzgerald never corrected his negative bias against Blacks.
It is obvious from his life and his work that he did not know any Blacks and as Meyers shows in his biography, Fitzgerald himself was déclassé and insecure.
Meyers says, “Princeton intensified his comforting sense of superiority, and he confirmed the belief of readers in popular magazines.” From Introduction by Julian Evans
This book is interesting only in that it reveals Fitzgerald's character, which may make analysis of his other, more well-known works, easier.
It is a short work and a travelogue of a journey by car (the "rolling junk") from Connecticut to Alabama with his young wife, Zelda.
It frankly had particular interest to me because I had found out the the journey took Scott and Zelda through my home area, and I wanted to see what he had to say (and it wasn't kind).
Unless you are a Fitzgerald scholar or a social historian, you are just as well off to skip this one.
This slender tale is about a supposedly spontaneous journey taken by Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald from Connecticut to Alabama on board a car they called the Rolling Junk.
Zelda was feeling nostalgic about the peaches she used to eat at home in the Deep South of the US, so they hop in the car to get some.
There are some amusing episodes and some quite beautiful passages of description of the country they drive through.
Fitzgerald shows a sense of entitlement and superiority which, for me, blights any of his outstanding qualities as a writer.

Pela estrada fora com o Scott Fitzgerald e a mulher Zelda. É do género fomos daqui para ali, passou-se isto e isto, não é nenhum valor literário, mas lê-se bem, tem alguns apontamentos sarcásticos interessantes.O Fitzgerald era um pouco racista, também percebemos isso em várias partes, como por exemplo quando diz que "infelizmente" o empregado da garagem era um negro, ou quando diz que, "segundo é costume na sua raça tentaram rodear a questão". Não é bem racismo, é mais uma visão estereotipada, talvez...
Well-written in its brevity, and its description, certainly, but without a shred of charm and with a slew of unpleasantries. The somewhat fictionalised Zelda and Fitzgerald are not my ideal storytime companions, it transpires, and, whilst there was a degree of interest and appreciation to be had in the brevity and descriptions, this isn't something I can see myself coming back to. I did like the car itself, though. It was the only character which moved me.
This is a tiny novella about a road trip taken by F. Scott and Zelda Fitzgerald (who are the main characters in this story). It's seriously funny though it's also super racist: every part involving black people is cringe-worthy. I've never read anything by Fitzgerald that made me laugh out loud so if you can prepare for the truly abhorrent, typical-rich-white-man-of-the-1920s musings on race, I would recommend giving this a go. Okay, THAT is a sentence I never thought I'd write.
So enjoyable! Funny and poetic - witty and descriptive. I felt like I was sitting in the backseat in a fly on the wall fashion watching two friends on their journey. Ah youth and spontaneity and that one car most of us had at one point in our lives. Makes me think of the Fitzgeralds during a fairly carefree time in their life together. Thank you rolling junk!
A beautifully written true story (mostly) about F. Scott and Zelda taking a road-trip to the South in search of peaches. As the automobile was still in its infancy, this is one of the first in a long history of American road-trip stories. Anyone who is a fan of Fitzgerald's writing should certainly pick up this quick read.
Great story, but all too short. Quick and to the point, humorous at many times, poetic at others, without dragging on like some of his longer works. In that sense, much more like Gatsby than The Beautiful and the Damned.
2.5 stars
