https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/428519.A_History_of_the_Crusades_Vol_I
I read a review of The Arabian Nights on GR which began - pessimistically and rather alarmingly - "I needed a book which I could lose" - the idea being either that the reviewer has a form of dementia or is in an ongoing situation where they may need to flee and have no time to grab their reading material (I can't really imagine being that frantic but some people lead less sheltered lives than me).Anyway, that reader should avoid Sir Stephen Runciman's towering, complex and riveting three volume history of the Crusades, because once you get going, you won't want to lose it.
The sequence is delineated but not explained or explored other than the traditional idea that it was opportunity meshed with spiritual responsibility which encouraged the papal decree that white Christians should travel across Europe to perhaps kill brown Christians along with the obvious targets of Turks, Jews and Arabs.
* Augustine didn't see spiritual merit in pilgrimage but Jerome did and afterwards, cousin, business was booming.
*Maybe Islam was an improvement on Christianity, and people often forget in our regional xenophobia that Christianity was an Eastern religion in terms of relative geography.
One of the biggest favors you can do for yourself in this life is to read Steven Runciman's History of the Crusades.
Along the way, you will learn a great deal about medieval politics and culture, Catholic and Orthodox theology, medieval warfare, feudalilsm, the history of Islam, and any other number of things.
The only thing this history lacks is much probing of medieval culture beneath the upper crust of the social stratum.
If anything, the historical facts cannot help but continually position the Crusaders as the backwards barbarians, particularly in the amusing episode of their arrival in the Orthodox Christian capital of Constantinople, where the Greeks (particularly Anna Comnena) are horrified by the boorishness of their Frankish and Norman guests.
The Steven runciman's book about The crusades is highly recognized as one the most greatest works of history of the crusades.
The first volume: The First Crusade and the Foundations of the Kingdom of Jerusalem, tell us about the fundation the first crusade, the beginning, the fundation of the kingdom of Jerusalem.
Runciman after describes of the major crusaders leaders and their travels to the Holy land, The first siege of Nicea until the siege of Jerusalem, and ends with the Baldwin's coronation as King of Jerusalem.
A great work, one classic account the crusades, I recommend this book.
But a rollicking good story covers a multitude of sins.Take, for example, The First Crusade, the first installment of Steven Runciman’s famous three-volume history of that peculiar medieval pastime.
But when it comes to the popular anti-violence movement that swept the West in the tenth and eleventh centuries, Runciman brushes off the Church’s interest in promoting it as motivated only by a desire to protect ecclesiastical possessions and revenues.Caveats of this sort in mind, Runciman’s story telling (after the first 75 pages or so of preliminaries) is really wonderful.
Il libro è molto interessante e ben fatto; peccato che questa sia la prima parte della corposa opera di Runciman, staccata e stampata pari pari, a parte. Da cretino, ho prima letto l'opera in due volumi, e poi mi sono comprato questo, aspettandomi chissà cosa di nuovo. Non do le cinque stelle per punire la casa editrice.
Runciman's classic history of the Crusades begins with this engrossing and highly-readable account of the background leading up to the Latin Christian incursion into the Near East by way of the Byzantine Empire, up through the First Crusade and the stunning initial conquest of Jerusalem.
Runciman's specialty was the Byzantine empire, and I especially valued his patient work in excavating and documenting its centrality to events which are all-too-often viewed as a belligerent incursion of Western Europeans into Anatolia and Palestine.
When looking up good books about the history of the crusades, Runciman’s series invariably shows up on must-read lists so I decided to give the first one a go.
And every time a Western prince had a good idea, the logical thought immediately following was this is not going to end well (it rarely did).
When it comes to these sort of history books, I’ve grown accustomed to the often complete absence of women, so it was refreshing to see Runciman pointing them out from time to time.
A great work of history by Runciman
Pope Urban II and Alexius I, the Byzantine emperor, both looked for a way to heal the great rift and as luck would have it the Turks gave them the excuse they needed.
Alexius put in a call to the Council at Piazenza for soldiers to fight the infidel Turks.
At Semlin a dispute arose between the locals and the people's crusade:4,000 Hungarians were killed.
When the People's Crusade finally arrived in Constantinople he moved them through as rapidly as possible.
The Moslems had been willing to accept the Franks as just one more factor in the tangled political environment of the Middle East, but the slaughter in Jerusalem became proof to them of bloodthirsty Christian fanaticism.
In the course of his long life he would master an astonishing number of languages, so that, for example, when writing about the Middle East, he relied not only on accounts in Latin and Greek and the Western vernaculars, but consulted Arabic, Turkish, Persian, Hebrew, Syriac, Armenian and Georgian sources as well."In brief, Runciman was a genius at learning languages, both living and dead.
The first couple of books were difficult to read even for someone who had a background in the time/place.By book three it was all coming together considerably, and from being a book that I ‘had to read just a chapter at least’ it became a book that ‘do I have to put it down already?’ by the end one felt one had a decent background on the first crusade, the people involved, the motivations behind the people and events.
I wonder why they yielded the city?But overall, a good explanation of the first crusades, excellently referenced and very likely to be useful as a primary (or at least secondary) source.
Rereading this dog-eared edition of the first of Runciman's three-volume study of the Crusades after a 50-year lapse is a delight.
This is solid history of the old school – every encounter, military or political, physical or personal, presented in minute detail backed up by voluminous sources.
Runciman remains a dedicated academic, presenting his material in a neutral "just the facts" voice, but one that includes human aspirations and failings as legitimate facts.
People too often fail to change with them.The first part of a monumental undertaking.
The first in the three-part 'History of the Crusades' series, this book gives a full and vivid detail of the first crusade, setting out in-depth the political, religious and historical backgrounds leading up to it over the proceeding five hundred years, before moving on to moving through the important characters and events of the four years of the first crusade.
Not only is his writing style vivid and engaging, even when he's talking about the ecclesiastical differences of the period, but his attention to detail is also incredible, having gathered almost every known account of the crusades together to give a vast coverage of the events of details of the time.
The definitive, and masterful, account of the Crusades.
One of the greatest pieces of historical writing in human...
you get the idea.His writing reminds me of Gibbon, with that same wry tone and observational irony, and the same startlingly beautiful phraseology.
The piece has dated a little, and I believe some of his sources have been discredited, but this is the series against which all other works on the period are judged.
If you have even a passing interest in the Crusades, or just enjoy beautiful explicative writing, you will find this enriching and enjoyable.
Okay, this series is the essential account of the Crusades.
I had been wary of reading Runciman ever since my interest in the Crusades began. I was worried that it would be too dense and difficult to read. I can report that Runciman's work is the total opposite. While dated, Runciman's text is easy to digest. I'm sure Crusades scholarship has come a long way in the decades since Runciman's trilogy was published, but his work stands out as a foundational pillar. I'm glad I finally began my dive into this trilogy of medieval history.
Aproape că ne vine greu să credem că au existata secole întregi în care acea parte a Europei pe care acum o numim civilizată era un colț de lume cât se poate de întunecat și barbar, privind cu jind în primul rând către faima și bogățiile estului, și abia mai apoi către cunoașterea și organizarea ultimului descendent al Imperiului Roman, Bizanțul.
Principii occidentali, încă de la început își vor încălca jurământul făcut lui Alexie Comnenul, luptându-se între ei pentru titlurile de principi, și pentru pământuri întinse, aflate cândva între fostele granițe ale Bizanțului .Istoria lui Runciman nu se citește repede dar nici foarte greu și din multe unghiuri e o lectură cât se poate de potrivită înainte de Sfânta Sărbătoare Pascală.
This is an outstanding of the events preceding the First Crusade that ultimately set it on the course it ended up as well as the First Crusade itself.
It is interesting and readable, and answers many of questions I'd wondered about it since high school and college such as "why did Palestine and Egypt fall so easily into Muslim hands in the 7th Century?", "Why didn't the original Christian inhabitants resist the Arab invaders more?"; "Were the Crusades only about religion?"; "Why didn't the Byzantine Empire and the Crusaders work together more closely to fight and expel the Muslim population?"; "Why did the Jewish population welcome the Arab invasions during the 7th Century?" (especially ironic in the light of current events)This book does a good job humanizing the characters and their personalities prominent in these events: Pope Urban II, Emperor Alexius, Raymond of Toulouse, Baldwin, Godfrey, Bohemond, Peter the Hermit, and so many more, including their Turkish and Arab opponents.
Muy buen libro para iniciarse en el tema.
Es un libro de historia a la "antigua"; nada de contexto socio-económico aquí, sólo una sucesión de acontecimientos y personajes.
Y es esta su mayor virtud y su mayor defecto: hay veces en que atora, se hace difícil de leer.
Pero vale la pena perseverar, porque está muy bien escrito y la historia que cuenta y los personajes que la pueblan no tienen desperdicio.
Contado principalmente desde la perspectiva de los cristianos, es recomendable tener a mano un mapa de la zona (Mediterráneo Oriental, Turquía, Siría, Líbano, Israel y Palestina) a mano si lo leéis en su versión electrónica.
I have given this first volume five stars as it simply has no competition. I am aboutto start the second volume and looking forward to it. Some of his writing can seem a little dated as some of his conclusions, but the style is so attractive these can be overlooked.The edition I read was by the Folio Society.
A lucid, plainly-written history of the early crusades, covering the fall of Jerusalem; it also covers a crucial period in Byzantine history, centered on the disastrous battle at Manzikert. The prose is a reasonably easy read and the author puts events in context of time and geography, particular in the crusades' origin in the contemporary western Christian mindset.
Ґрунтовне наукове дослідження першого хрестового походу. Автор виявив причину потужного суспільного руху задля визволення Гробу Господнього, описав основних дійових осіб походу. Наголосив на певній єдності дій латинської та візантійської церков. Досліджено військові дії, битви, заснування Єрусалимського королівства.
Biases are noticeable but a good book overall, at the end of the day there are huge discrepancies between primary sources on the crusades. I think the highlight is the presentation of the relationships between Byzantium and the Crusaders, with the qualities and sins of both.
A very clear treatment of a complex and fascinating time of history. Amazing to imagine these crusaders and pilgrims choosing to travel so far in those times.
Una obra maestra de la historia medieval, narrada con tal maestría que parece que tenemos entre manos una novela, pero con el rigor de un grande de la historia medieval.
A classic in history literature. Just as good as Sicilian Vespers.
Definitive history of the Crusades. Hardcore detail in narrative form.
Runciman then focuses his work on the (eventually successful) First Crusade as of 1096, taking the reader with the European lords Adhemar of Monteil, Godfrey and his brother Baldwin of Bouillon, Robert of Normandy (son of William the Conqueror, who took Anglo-Saxon England in 1066), the Italian Bohemond of Taranto, and many other notables, on their four-year struggle along the way.
On the way the lords and their Crusading armies go through hardships such as famine, heat, battles against the Turks, long sieges and difficult decisions in order to secure their success of reaching their destination victoriously.
He got ripped off because Bohemond--who was also totally awesome, valiant as hell, and a devious schemer, but unfortunately an impatient, imprudent and ultimately rash strategist--got himself into a tight spot with the Byzantine Emperor Alexius.
Unfortunately he inherited the infamy (as far as the Byzantines were concerned; in Western Christendom Bohemond was the most famous and admired of all the Crusaders) of his relation: the sins of the uncle were visited on the nephew, and Tancred was inhibited by a hostile Byzantine power.
But his wife was this totally awesome bully, who forced him to go become a magnificent warrior.
This is really epic and of course very brutal and insightful, just a fraction of what is written in this book could fuel scripts of really memorable movie blockbusters, almost as good as Lord of the Rings, the book is very well written, also Runciman is not biased at all because he admired byzantine civilization, this is surely together with Lord of the Rings my all time favourites
