https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/961329.When_Marnie_Was_There
The English version of the film will be released in less than a month, and what better time to start the book than now?It's about a quiet girl named Anna who visits a small seaside village in England.
The story is quite good, but if you like lots of action, it's probably best to stay away.It's weird, but I can hardly ever relate to any of the characters in most of the books I read.
Anna's forever feeling of being on the 'outside', Priscilla's shyness, and Mr. Lindsays love for literature and chunky marmalade to name a few.
One of my favourite quotes towards the end of the book:
Anna enjoys her freedom roaming the sand dunes and salt marsh and thinks she longs for solitude until she makes friends with another lonely young girl who lives in a house Anna feels inexplicably drawn to.The book has beautiful illustrations by Peggy Fortnum, unfortunately our copy was a recent reprint which has given the book a new cover which in my opinion is horrible.
(I'm probably asking to feel this way even reading a children's book about a lonely girl from a long time ago.) Anna of ‘What Marnie Knew’ is a window urchin just like this.
I feel like that scene in ‘Good Will Hunting’ when Matt Damon says Skylar is perfect right now and he doesn’t want to see her again so that won’t be ruined.
I liked best of all the sense that they dreaded not knowing what to do with Anna while at the same time wishing it would be different.
I feel like if there was a stupid dating site for dream friends Marnie would be Anna’s match.
”It was raining harder now and she was beginning to get wet, but it did not matter. She was warm inside. She turned and began running back along the dyke, thinking how strange it was—about being ‘inside’ or ‘outside’. It was nothing to do with there being other people, or whether you were ‘an only’, or one of a large family . . . she knew that now—it was something to do with how you were feeling inside yourself.” Anna is around ten and absolutely friendless. Unable to connect with the other chi
After being away from school for two weeks, suffering from asthma that is likely psychosomatic in nature, Anna is sent by her foster parents, the Prestons, to stay with the Peggs, an endearing, warm couple who live in Little Overton in the fen country.
The two will become each other’s best friend and will have several small adventures together, but then Marnie will quite suddenly depart, leaving Anna to question if the other girl is a figment of the imagination or a character from some strange dream.When summer finally (officially) arrives, a lovely, friendly family with five children moves into the mysterious Marsh House.
Apparently this is going to be a Studio Ghibli movie, and when the bookseller lady in Tokyo told me I was of course like "Must own this nowwwwww" so I bought it and read it and loved it.
The mystery of who Marnie really is and whether she even exists is what propels the book, and though it's never particularly urgent (or explained, for that matter) it's really lovely wandering around with the characters through their cheery English summer, always with just a hint of mystery and sadness.
I'm glad I read it, had never heard of this author before, and am now super excited for the Ghibli movie!
There will be a new Studio Ghibli film based on this book in 2014! Directed by the man who made the Arietty film, so I'll be expecting gorgeous backdrops and music. :)https://www.facebook.com/FansOfStudio...
The book is so enchanting.
My heart was filled with so much emotion and my imagination was so free, creating those wonderful scenery that felt so dreamy and magical.
I felt like Anna, I can relate with her a lot and how lonely she was sometimes.
I love Marnie and how she's created to be like a dream and a reality all together.
I love how the book transported me to my own childhood and all those fantasies I once have as well.
The pacing of the story is so so good, the storytelling is superb!
It is a modern-classic indeed!
No, it's because these sentences from the first few pages hit me like a punch in the gut: She knew perfectly well that things like parties and best friends and going to tea with people were fine for everyone else, because everyone else was "inside"--inside some sort of invisible magic circle.
Some people, like me, are always outside the circle.
And no matter what happens, we can't get "in." Of course, this book goes down the old acceptable timeworn children's-fiction path of sending the main character to a new place to "recuperate from an illness" and of course there she has wonderful adventures and somehow learns to fit in and make friends (due in large part to the people around her letting her go her independent way without making a fuss about it).
This was my absolute favourite book as a child. A really beautiful story about a lonely girl who learns to make friends with the help of another girl, who comes through time to help her. (I won't tell you who the girl is). Beautifully written. Absolutely superb.
It is a quiet, mysterious little book about a lonely little girl, living for the summer with an older couple, foster parents, at the British seaside.
One evening, she meets a girl about her own age who lives in the house and they become fast friends.
This is Anna's very first real friend and the summer becomes a magical time for Anna and Marnie, although there is always something a bit mysterious about Marnie.
The summer is a time of growth for Anna.
I can imagine it may appeal to shy children who have also had trouble making friends; they may wish for their own Marnie.
I've been wanting to read When Marnie Was There for over a year now, but I had a ridiculous amount of trouble getting my hands on the book.
While she is playing outside, Anna meets a mysterious girl named Marnie...I liked the character of Anna quite a lot and I think a lot of readers will be able to identify with her loneliness and feelings of being on the outside looking in.
This strange yet wonderful little book was filled with mysteries all the way through. Is Marnie an imaginary friend? A ghost? A human girl? This question is what leads the main character searching for her long-lost friend and what makes this book certainly worth reading.
(One thing I have to ask is why is Anna so slow at one point to realize another child is bullying her?
It seems like through the rest of the book she does the opposite and reads bad intentions into everyone.
At one point it seems like Marnie does a really mean thing to Anna, and Anna takes some time to come to terms with it.
Also, while Anna clearly learns something about friendship and that she is not alone in the world, given the middle events of the story, she might well have come to the opposite conclusion and decided no one would ever really be there for her.
I really miss being able to pass little gems like this one onto my mum.
She would have adored Anna and Marnie.
Anna is a young orphan girl who by her own judgement is both friendless and unloved.
She roams the beach and the marshes all day long, becoming fascinated by a large property called Marsh House and the ethereal little girl spied having her hair brushed in an upstairs window.
Is Marnie real?
The mystery of Marnie tugs at your wonderings throughout though the book is much more than a quaint little mystery.
Back then, I didn't know it's based on a book but I picked it up as soon as I found out because let's face it, all of us love comparing the book to the movie.
That's the whole story.Now, I'm not being mean or anything.
The story is good.
It's about the importance of family, love, and trust and I'm sure you've got the gist of it by now.
But if you're patient enough to endure a snail's tale, then there's a high chance you'll like this book.If no, then at least watch the movie.
Yet, it was still lovely and I found myself putting this book aside so that I could savor it when I finally did return to read another few chapters.
I definitely recommend this if you want to read something relaxing with gorgeous writing and British slang.I think I will compare this to the movie when I see it so that I can go in more in depth about the two.
They've animated quite a few movies based off children's books-Howl's Moving Castle, The Secret World of Arrietty-along with their own.
Needless to say, I love seeing the way the studio creates the story in a new way.
A winsome timeslip that I read as a child and like just as much as an adult! My review is available at:http://perfectretort.blogspot.com/201...
Here began my love of reading
Хочу теперь пересмотреть мульт и родить ещё четверых детей.
One terrible night, though, their wonderful secret friendship comes to a sad and sudden end, and Marnie says a tearful goodbye as she tells Anna her family is making her go away.
As I listened, though, it became clear that this book was a cut above others of its type, and I understood why my husband was so adamant about having me hear it.Robinson is a wonderfully descriptive writer, and I feel as though I can picture every person and location she depicts in this novel as clearly as though I have seen them myself.
Maybe this book doesn't have much readers here and it was published back in the 60's, hope there will be a new release after the Ghibli film coming out.
Marnie, the mysterious girl with her long yellow hair and white nightgown who brings Anna to the gloomy Marsh House by her boat.
Anna and Marnie quickly become close friends and share almost every moment together, but then Marnie runs away and nothing will be the same again between them.
The really close friendship, more like love, between two girls in the book has Ghibli written on it; they sure like their female characters and that's one of the reasons for their popularity.
I remember being enchanted by this bittersweet book as a kid.
I liked the movie better .
It all makes sense in the end .
But the transition to the end was not as brilliant as in the movie .
So I do recommend it if you want a light read with a theme that we can not develop emotionally as fully functional human beings until someone loves us --like Marnie loved Anna --which was the whole reason why Marnie ,manifested in Anna's life(because Anna lost both her parents in car wreak when she was very young and in the end when you finds out who Marnie actually was that makes perfect sense because Marnie also grew up without parental love .
First published in 1967 this children's classic is one I'd never heard of, and am surprised of.
The loneliness of childhood is something that will always be a favorite subject of children's stories...
This was made into Studio Ghibli movie in 2014 and it felt like reading a Miyazaki movie, if you know what I mean...Another thing about this book is that a kind student lent it to me, knowing I would love it.
Give me a word for when a patron lends a librarian a book-- if there isn't a word for that "backwards lending," there should be...
Librarian in training?
I watched the movie about two years ago, but only just got around to reading the book. I really liked the writing; it was easy to get lost in the story. The book is somewhat different than the movie, and I liked the book version better. Even though I already knew how the storyline was going to wrap up, I still felt the waves of emotion, and really had vested interest in Anna’s journey and wanted her to find happiness. I think this would’ve been a favorite read if I had found it as a young teenager.
Fantastic book that really gives a sense of the setting. Audio version excellent as well. The movie is only three stars. I wish there were a live action that was true to the book and set in Norfolk.
I would have liked this better had I read it at 12. It's pretty predictable and slight from my 50-something perspective. I'm not unhappy I read it, but it's already slipping away from me.
با وجود داستان ساده و ریتمِ آرام و باطمانینهاش، با عظمت و عمیق است
با وجود داستان ساده و ریتمِ آرام و باطمانینه‌اش، با عظمت و عمیق است
It's a bit different, especially in the portrayal of Anna's adoptive family and of the family coming to live in the Marsh House, but I feel like everything was well chosen for the book and well shifted for the movie.
Robinson's characters are deep and realist.
It took me some time to read this book and it did feel a bit repetitive so soon after watching its movie adaptation but it was worth it.It's a shame that When Marnie Was There ended up as a relatively forgotten book, it not even being available in Montréal and needing to be ordered from the UK for me to buy it, because Joan G.
Robinson clearly had talent.
A lovely story about loneliness, friendship, and coming of age. Coming from fantastic the Ghibli movie (in all meanings of the word), the book does show its age a little, especially in the "everything gets wrapped up through dialogue" ending which was popular at the time, but it's still very sweet and captivating.
