https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/254389.Battlefield_Of_The_Mind
I am surviving jail because of this book.
This book is bringing me very close to my lord and Savior.
I have had such a 180 in my thinking and my life due to this book that I want to come back to this same jail after I am out in August to teach of this book and these principles to others that I see in here that are in very desperate need of these ideals.
Thank you and I look for god to direct me in this path if he so sees fit to do such.
God Bless!
It has helped me deal with issues of anxiety -- of worrying too much, particularly about things I can't control anyway.
The book is broken down in chapters, each dealing with an aspect of the mind and the many ways we allow certain factors to control our thinking and consequently our behavior.
It is an easy read in the sense that her writing is plain and to the point.
I would highly recommend this book to anyone who tends to worry or have anxiety issues.
It is a "go-to" book for me, when I find myself worrying too much, which is why I'm reading it again.
I was much better helped by the book Grace for the Afflicted, which specifically addressed clinical problems and paired them with biblical discussions.
If you're just going through rough times, this book would likely be helpful.
Perhaps finding better anecdotes from others would have helped more.
If someone is going through a temporary rough time, such as after a divorce, this book might be helpful.
I found myself getting a little irritated at times with her point of view.
I'd recommend Grace for the Afflicted, which I mentioned earlier in this review, or When God Doesn't Make Sense, by James Dobson.
I've been a Christian since I was little so I felt I could read the book with a grain of salt.
The reason I gave this book four stars is because it is drenched in scripture.
I found myself writing down most of the scriptures she pointed to, taping them to my mirrors, and learning that a lot of my problems come from a bad/negative attitude of my own volition.
I strongly believe so many people's problems come from the simple refusal to just grow up and take responsibility for our thoughts and actions.
The fact that Joyce puts herself out there by giving examples from her life and ministries of the " many times " that her battles have been lost really edifies her teaching immensely and allows a base for the reader to begin to examine themselves.Overall I think this book will hold itself as essential reading for christians and particularly new ones in the years to come.
The fact that it is already so mass produced that it can be very cheaply bought and yet so powerfully change someone's life ( by the work of the Holy Spirit ) is a testament to Joyce, it is completely grounded in scripture all the way through, my critical mind couldn't fault it while my open were being opened and my soul being fed.
She has also written many books on Christianity, this being one of the more popular.Battlefield of the Mind is about solving some of the common problems we all encounter in life, such as depression, anger, or worry, by getting you to examine the way you think about things, or as the book puts it, "you need to begin to think about what you are thinking about." And that's basically the goal of the whole book.Other major points include:-our actions are a direct result of our thoughts.
Joyce uses parables and many personal examples along the way- which makes the book very interesting to read.
As part of the requirements for "normal," she says a mind should not be busy, and should not wander.
For example, she writes about an experience of God leading her to give a new dress to one of her employees, and she didn't want to give the dress away.
Not everything is so cut-and-dry as "I should give the dress away, because if I keep it, I am being selfish."However, this book did have some good things about it.
Secondly, the use of Scripture throughout the book shows that she is very God-centered in her intentions, even if I don't agree with everything she has to say.
I learned a few very helpful things in reading this book, particularly the concept of disciplining the mind, and of "renewing one's mind" through Scripture.
It intrigues (and scares me a little bit) to think that many spiritual battles can be fought in our thoughts, and that we develop patterns of thought unconsciously, for the most part.
All in all, I think she addressed a problem that hasn't received much attention, and this book was a welcome read.
In this instant age, where we build habits without much purpose or intent, it is important to get back to disciplining our thoughts and discovering how they relate to our actions.
This book literally changed the way I think in the month I spent reading and applying it.
That being said, this is a book that should not be read straight through, but should be read slowly and reflected upon (I also journaled through it).
Ask God to help you to get what you need from the message and to open your mind and heart to what he has to say to you through Joyce's words2.
Write notes from the chapters and examples of how you are applying or struggling to apply things to your life3.
If you didn't understand or are struggling with applying the topics of a chapter, RE-READ IT!
Made me really think about my life and attitude and it made to change in a lot of ways.
I was quick to open my mouth when people made mad, totally didn't think before I spoke, didn't care what people thought.
My way of thinking is what can I do to get back at them.
I had a I don't give a crap attitude if u don't like me don't let the door hit u in the butt on the way out.
So if u want to change ur life and be a happier person this book is for you.
Various scriptures taken from the Amplified Bible, as well as King James, are spread throughout the book, validating Meyer's teachings on the mind.Though I was not impressed with Joyce's writing style, I appreciated her insights, and her knowledge of the Bible.
Joyce's book here was written using reason, which, in the image of God, we were gifted with (granted she used a smaller portion of reason in her writing than say, Charles Spurgeon).
Myer Pearlman states that "theology literally means 'a treatise or reasoned discourse about God'.
She knows what she is talking about and what I love about her she keeps it real and we need that in our daily life.
She has been there and know what we all faces in life and what we go thru emotionally.My advice to all my friends and check her out and read her book it will blow your mind.
Her book help not only women but everyone how to deal with your emotional issues and behavior she is like a Christian Dr. LoL that is how I see her.
By sharing you what has help me personally.
Kudos there, Joyce.As I read along I kept getting the notion that this woman might be a twit, though I don't believe that after seeing her speaking segment, and looking at what she's accomplished, but the way she comes across with her writing...I suspected I was in trouble when I got to page x.
Here's another section I'm afraid I had to leave behind:Another example of the way the spirit and the mind work together is the gift of tongues with interpretation.When I speak in tongues, my mind is unfruitful until God gives either me or someone else the understanding of what I am saying; then my mind becomes fruitful.Please keep in mind that the gifts are not tongues and translation.
While I did not particularly care for Meyer's writing style - it felt too informal, too much like she wanted to be close with her readers - this was a good read.
However, I am glad that I read it.The only reason it didn't get a 5/5 was because of the writing style.
It was hard for me to get into it after not reading it for awhile, because of the "clunky" way that Meyer uses words, also.
I found this part of the book especially useful.
Let's skip past the fact that this book has the single most redundant title I've ever seen, and the book's numerous proofing errors and the general shoddiness of the prose.She begins the first chapter by telling me that some of my thoughts come from the devil.
(Excuse me--"The Devil," as Joyce Meyer would render it.) Happily, this isn't true; if I believed it were, I would almost certainly develop paranoid schizophrenia.
Are Christians even supposed to believe that their devil is as powerful as their god?So, Meyer ends the first chapter by saying, "Let's illustrate this with a parable." She then describes, for several pages, a fictional couple named Mary and John.

2/11/15 I liked the straight-forward manner in which this book was written.
There was a lot of practical, insightful information.
I suspect my mind works very similarly to the way Joyce Meyers' did before she learned the lessons outlined in this book.
One of the many points I appreciated was that we want our mind to be in a state of rest, which allows us to be led by the Spirit more readily.
This would be in stark contrast to those occasions when we let our thoughts run rampant, as they are sometimes prone to do.
There were many other nuggets I took away from the book as well.
EVERY Christian needs to read this book! We all struggle with our thoughts and even depression. This book is amazing. Joyce Meyer has been stuck in the negative tailspin that negative thinking produces and overcame it with the Word of God. This book is such an easy read. I recommend the study guide that goes with it as well. Underline and take notes. It's amazing what you'll learn from this book! I have read it twice.
This book was really great at helping me to realize what thoughts I was allowing to be present in my head; most of them were negative and self-defeating. The book also gave me great tools to use to change my thought process and have a more positive outlook.
i didn't know she was (is) a Minister until she retrieved the book from her car one day and said God told her to give me her copy...for that reason alone, this book holds a special place on my bookshelf...it's been a while since i've read it (and i plan to read it again as a sort of refresher) but this book left a lasting impression on me b/c it literally changed my life and transformed my whole way of thinking...i'm 38 and as long as i can remember, i've been a 'worry-wart'...i was very tender, emotional, sensitive, and i took just about everything personal.
(lets face it, all of us)Its writen for people with all these problems by a person who had them and yet fought through to regain the control in her mind.Im one of those people who likes to be taught how to cook by the chef that can actually cook, not instruct me out of the recipe book.
The mind is the ultimate battlefield against the enemy, and I'm fighting for God!
Its a struggle and I'm not there yet but, I am going to live the life NOW that Christ died for me to have.I cant say enough great things about this book except, READ IT!
and change your life with God.
When my boss recommended this book he told me that it would change the way I approached situations and would make the people around me very transparent.
This book truly makes you analyze your ow approach to life, but also gives you tools to understand the inner workings of other's minds that cause them to act and speak the way they do.Meyer's approach to writing the book is based in a christian approach.
In the last third of the book Meyer analyzes the 10 Wilderness mentalities.
Having an understanding of these mindsets really changes the way that you approach the people around you, and more importantly causes you to consider you own thinking.
I thought this book was the biggest eye opener.
Since I started reading this book, I've passed the helpfulness on to several people who have started reading it and love it as much as I do.
Not to mention not only has it set me free from my ever and over thinking mind but helped me Spiritually b/c I know now I can take charge of my thoughts, focus on meditating on God, reading my Bible and my prayer time.
All around a give it 2 thumbs up, 5 stars and anything else that says it a MUST READ on my list.
That is the strength of this book.
When I read this book, I was going through a prolonged tough and discouraging time.
When you're in a situation things you hear from a pulpit don't always jump to the forefront of your mind as you struggle through the week.
Enter Battlefield of The Mind.
It provided me with clarity and helped/reminded me to look at my problems from a different angle so I could surmount them.
I found it very empowering and helpful.
A book to read again and again when needed.
It's on my treasured books bookshelf.
Mooi en krachtig boek over -hoe verrassend- de strijd die je kunt hebben in je denken.ze schrijft op een prettige manier en laat ook haar eigen zwakheden op dit gebied zien als voorbeelden in het boek.enige minpunt vond ik de bijbelteksten die uitgeschreven zijn, ik had gekozen voor een andere vertaling. (in de teksten staan stukjes toegevoegd om het te verduidelijken maar daardoor vond ik het juist onduidelijker worden)
Life changing...
Pretty essential book for helping to manage your thoughts and emotions. This is grounded in biblical teachings by virtue of the Bible verses that serve as the foundation of the book. Some of it was a little repetitive but I suppose that serves to reinforce the messages and principles.
It's the ability to keep a good attitude while waiting.OWRs:Life-changingAmazingHelpfulEye-openingRereadableWriting: 9.5/10 Mrs. Meyer is an amazing author.
In this book, she tackled various problems that we all have come face to face with; such as our wilderness mentalities, jealousy, stubbornness, and many more important issues related to our mind.
She showed me that I was reading the Bible wrong all this time and was being lazy and relying too much on other people's revelations.Her writing also isn't boring or hard to read...
Reading it will change your life.
It will open your eyes to important this and will help you and inspire you to fix your wrongs.
There were so many great ideas and kernels of ideas here; Meyer really does have some important things to say, and I absolutely believe that the way you think has a tremendous impact on the way you live your life.
But they're rare, and often paired with lucky numbers that aren't lucky in the least in a sort of cosmic scale-balancing.) Writing a book on religion and faith is one thing; this felt way more like a self-help how-to.I'm also really not a fan of how this handled scripture: three cheers for the sheer amount of it, to be sure, but most of the quotations had tons of variants built in or extrapolations within the verses.
And she shares the trials, tragedies, and ultimate victories from her own marriage, family, and ministry that led her to wondrous, life-transforming truth—and reveals her thoughts and feelings every step of the way.I have taught this book through out the years, given this tool as a gift to many for this is one Gift the Lord given Joyce Meyers to Write His Words of Utterance for every Believer for Everyone of Gods Creation should have this tool in their library Why Because in the battlefield of the mind awaits their testimony so get your highlighter ready and your notepad I guarantee you will continue to return to open up these pages.
