https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/5752.The_Blank_Slate
It's not that I hate religion, or the idea of god, it's just that I can't really get my mind around it after a childhood devoid of spirituality.
Newsflash: if you don't take a lot for granted, religious theory makes NO SENSE.
SO...reading this book is as close as I've come to a "religious experience".
Reading about the evolution of the human mind, and how our basic drives--and the complex mechanisms we've developed to serve them--manifest themselves within culture, and simultaneously CREATE culture...it's just...positively uplifting.
Thinking of human nature in this way makes me appreciate everything "human" in a much deeper sense.
Pinker 2 retains the writing ability, but instead uses it for pushing his pet theories, usually political in nature (cf.
He relies on a number of controversial and dubious sources as well as his own misinterpretations of some research, such as Bouchard's infamous twin studies.Lacking actual examples of those who hold this "blank slate" view, Pinker dredges up some long dead academics to serve as a scarecrow.
(Everyone except Christina Hoff Sommers?) Demonstrating that he's willing to slurp up just about any "finding" in pop evolutionary psychology, he offers an extended defense of Thornhill and Palmer's A Natural History of Rape: Biological Bases of Sexual Coercion.
Pinker tells you in the first few pages what the new consensus is: both, but genes are probably more important.He has some wonderful stories to back up the general points.
Historically, they've usually not been told what happened, since this was deemed to be in their best interests.Studies on these unfortunate children show that they nearly always feel deeply conflicted, and quite different from other girls.
They were just male without knowing it.Well, if you thought that story was interesting, he's got dozens more that are nearly as good.
However, after I spent some time in a Sociology of Gender class at college, I discovered that the total denial of innate psychological programming is indeed as pervasive among the social sciences as Pinker suggests.
His characterization of post-modernist philosophy, cultural anthropology, and some factions within psychology are very consistent with the ideas that I've seen professors advocate and students at my school endorse.The Blank Slate is an important book for impressionable students of the social sciences because it thoroughly explicates arguments that some academic programs would never dare to teach.
The Blank Slate is Steven Pinker's ambitious attempt to close the gap between the conventionally accepted dogma that human beings come into this world free of innate characteristics, ready to be molded and shaped by society, and what science has begun to reveal about genetic predisposition.
Prior to reading this book, I had no idea that the origin of human nature was such a contentious topic amongst modern intellectuals.
Though these theories may not intellectually fashionable, Pinker makes it clear that there are a wealth of benefits to be gained by accepting what science has to tell us about the true origins of human nature.
Ideally, that is how it should work, with scientists serving as neutral observers, freely informing us, the public, on whatever findings they come across, whatever the implications.
Ironically - also tellingly -, when it comes to the in-depth study of the human animal, there is active, hostile opprobrium by (a certain school of) social scientists and ideologically motivated activists alike.
Scientists who try to find biological causations for certain human behaviours or perceived inequalities are frequently ostracised, pelted by slurs, and made pariah's in their own fields.
Genes and our biological make-up determine our behaviour to a far greater extent than culture or our upbringing ever will.
Elsewhere Pinker claims Hitler thought he was doing God's will (footnote to some article in an atheist magazine I looked up -- check out Free Inquiry, Volumbe 19, Issue 2, and judge for yourself whether you would *ever* cite this source in a serious academic inquiry) and that the Catholic Church teaches that 'ensoulment' takes place at the moment of conception.
Most importantly, he uses the word "ensoulment" -- and this is central to his argument at this point in the book -- implying that the Church firmly teaches this concept that he is upset about.
The author could have begun this book from a different starting place where readers have no ideological axes to grind, open-minded examination of evidence and arguments take place, and we are all intellectually and emotionally ready to live in a world of nuance.
The author, through his exploration of the various themes and evidence, tries to make us all epistemic creatures -- people who can have beliefs and values but suspend them in order to explore counter-evidence, new theories, and hypotheses, and sharpen our values with our knowledge.
I have been reading a number of Steven Pinker's books, and they are all excellent.
The concept of a "blank slate", though socially attractive, has held back science and our understanding of human nature.The chapter on children was especially interesting.
Pinker rightly gives much credit to Judith Harris' excellent book The Nurture Assumption: Why Children Turn Out the Way They Do. The subject is not finished, though.
Pinker shows that while 50% of the variance in human nature is due to genetics, the remaining 50% of the variance is still in question.
Except that human nature is so violent (at least, if you're a man) and suspicious that of course we will never treat everyone with respect and don't you dare Big Brother us into doing so.
I also find many of the absolutely-certain-claims somewhat suspect, as if statistics/brain scans from this or that study and some anecdotes and did you know tribal people actually kill each other??
I'm saying that the very fact I know more about Pinker from this book than I do about human nature is par for the course.
(Steven Pinker in Oporto, on the 11th of November 2017. My photo.)"Nature, Mr Allnut , is what we are put in this world to rise above" Katherine Hepburn to Humphrey Bogart in The African Queen"Hillary Clinton may have advanced the dumbest explanation in the history of psychobabble, but she does not deserve the charge of trying to excuse the president's [husband] behavior"Pinker makes the case against a man who gets his formation/make up only from the outer forces of parenting, education, etc. H
He, sort of, denounces the political appeal of a “blank slate “human being to justify the fears of inequalities and certain types of interventions.
Those political fears are meant to be refuted.
The book of Pinker is a huge amalgamation of proof that psychopathology, personality traits, as well as love, consciousness and will, are biologically determined.
So much so for a biological determinism, I wonder how would Pinker deny refute a God Gene gene?
my problem with pinker and the rest of the current mature crop of pop-science meega-pundits (thinking kurzweil, dawkins, wolfram...), is that they have all this incredible data, and a good number of intelligent conclusions, but some impulse (hubris?
i kinda drew a blank myself on that one), and then i procceeded to be thoroughy engrossed for many chapters, in which pinker used his considerable erudition (which seems both fairly deep and fairly broad) to lay out a really intense survey of all kids of topics that might have to do with the "nature/nurture" controversy: lots of great data on twin studies, baby studies, language studies, archeological studies...
Wow What an interesting and exquisitely written book!!!This is my first read by this author “Steven Pinker”. He is a psychologist and author of several books and articles on cognition and linguistics. In  The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature  he refuted the widely held belief that the human mind at birth is a tabula rasa /blank slate to which the environment (nurture) gives form and substance. He further explained that neither genetics nor environmental conditions are solely respon
Wow What an interesting and exquisitely written book!!!This is my first read by this author “Steven Pinker”.
The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature
he refuted the widely held belief that the human mind at birth is a tabula rasa /blank slate to which the environment (nurture) gives form and substance.
He further explained that neither genetics nor environmental conditions are solely responsible for determining a person's behavior instead; individuals are created by a combination of both innate human nature and the conditions of upbringing and environment.
A must read for those who want to be introduced to the nature-nurture debate by examining scientific evidence.
Or that he breaks it over his knee.He examines how motivations for wanting to believe in a Blank Slate come from four fears of human nature:1.
The Fear of Inequality: if people are innately different, oppression and discrimination (like sexism and racism) would be justified.
Ignoring this fact doesn't help address the real cause of discrimination, which is to judge people as a member of their group, instead of as an individual.
Ignoring human nature doesn't make people any less likely to commit crimes.
For instance, he briefly qualifies research suggesting inheritable differences between male and female brains but then proceeds to lay it all out as unqualified fact.
In any case I agree with him that it should make no difference when it comes to placing value on males or females, but none of this excuses the fact that he overstates the scientific conclusions.In Chapter 12, Pinker similarly runs roughshod over stereotypical associations.
The "blank slate" underlies the nurture pole of the nature/ nurture debate and looms huge in political and social policies.
Drawing on an immense body of research in psychology and other social sciences, linguistics, and evolutionary biology, Pinker makes the case for the nature pole, arguing that it is now apparent that the human brain is not a blank slate, but in fact bears powerful imprints of our evolutionary past that in effect hardwire us to feel, respond, and behave in specific ways.
The denial of this human nature is now an impediment to solving many problems that are now plaguing Western democracies.
Second reading.
However, Pinker accomplishes one important feat in this book, and that is to point out that our theories of justice and morality are not hostage to the empirically falsifiable claim that there are no innate differences between individuals.
Our moral commitment to respecting the human dignity, equality, freedom, and human rights of any and all regardless of gender or race is in no way advanced by stifling scientific research that might reveal essential differences between individuals.
Finding the right way of mutually constraining freedom and equality is the goal of political thinking, and Pinker argues that it cannot be achieved if we ignore the innate traits of individuals.
Steven Pinker is an excellent writer, but I have major problems with this book.
Likewise, while Steven Pinker does an excellent job of ripping into those who would have us believe that the mind is completely shaped by the environment of that mind, I'm not sure who actually believes that anymore.
The fact that evolution by natural selection is occurring and that this occurrence is on the genetic level does not mean that we have genetic evidence for whichever behavior Steven Pinker describes as adaptive, no matter how adaptive that behavior might seem.Ultimately, these aren't scientific arguments, but science-y arguments.
Pinker is a witty writer, to be sure, and I enjoyed reading this book.
'Man will become better when you show him what he is like.' - Anthon ChekovWon't he??? ...Maybe, the arguments in this book can't be put any more eloquently than the quote of Anton Chekov....The book was both fun and terrible to encounter how supposed "liberals" experience the cognitive dissonance by having their assumptions and dogmas challenged.The author goes over controversies , a number of hot buttons, hot zones, Chernobyls, third rails, and so on -- including the arts ( I disagree with him
...Maybe, the arguments in this book can't be put any more eloquently than the quote of Anton Chekov....The book was both fun and terrible to encounter how supposed "liberals" experience the cognitive dissonance by having their assumptions and dogmas challenged.﻿The author goes over controversies , a number of hot buttons, hot zones, Chernobyls, third rails, and so on -- including the arts ( I disagree with him particularly), cloning, crime, free will, education, evolution, gender differences, God, homosexuality, infanticide, inequality, Marxism, morality, Nazism, parenting, politics, race, rape, religion, resource depletion, social engineering, technological risk and war.The sciences of human nature - behavioral genetics, evolutionary psychology, neuroscience, cognitive science went/ are going (increasingly in the years to come) to upset various dogmas, careers, and deeply-held political belief systems.But, we have a choice about that.
Still, if you can spot and ignore his ideology-driven arguments, you can get a good deal out of this book.The biggest problem with Pinker is his over-reliance on Evolutionary Psychology—a relatively new discipline that tries to explain our behavior by using Darwinism.
Yes, it might have happened the way they envisioned it but it might also have happened another way—for example, many of our supposedly evolutionary behaviors can be explained economically as well, i.e., it pays for us to behave in that way.
So unless you can produce an empirical evidence that supports your story (e.g., find the genes responsible for such a behavior) it will remain just that, a story.
The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature by Steven PinkerThe Blank Slate is an ambitious book that goes after the blank slate fallacy that is the idea that the human mind has no inherent structure and can be inscribed at will by society or ourselves.
The religious opposition to evolution and its intended corruption of American science education.15.
Debunking the four fears over the anxiety of human nature.18.
Fascinating look at the fallacy of the connection between media violence and violent behavior.35.
Many important ideas and thoughts are found throughout this ambitious book.
Evolutionary psychology sounds more like the half-baked world of 19th century geology, with solid pieces of observation and reasoning cemented together with a mixture of vagueness and absurd cocksurety.The book then ambles off into a series of ruminations by our fairly insufferable author, who is about 1/20 the social and political critic he thinks he is, where he makes either astoundingly obvious or blatantly inept statements and claims about human life in general and where he sees ramifications of the biology of the brain in these situations.
4,5Estaría bien que, pasados ya 15 años desde su aparición, Pinker publicase una puesta al día y ampliación. Puerta de entrada para aquellos interesados en la psicología basada en la biología y la teoría de la evolución y laselección natural.

This book was amazing, One of those books when you come out on the other side of it you can see some changes in your life and in your perception..Steven Pinker you are a badass great book. And thank you Morgan for the recommendation.
The Ghost in the Machine (adopted by the dualists): each of us has a soul that makes choices free from biology.Much of the book is dedicated to examining fears of the social and political consequences of his view of human nature:1.
Here is an article by Pinker "Science is not your Enemy!": An impassioned plea to humanists...https://newrepublic.com/article/11412...طبيعة فطرية: هل هي فكرة مرعبة؟(نحن لسنا، كما يفترض الكثيرون، مجرّد ألواح فارغة تشكّلها البيئة.)في كتابه (اللوح الفارغ: الإنكار المعاصر للطبيعة البشرية) يحاجج ستيڤن پينكر بأنّ العلم الحديث (علم النفس التطوّري وعلوم الأعصاب على وجه الخصوص) قد تحدّى ثلاثة عقائد بخصوص الطبيعة البشرية، متقاطعة فيما بينها وتشكّل وجهة النظر المهيمنة على الحياة الفكرية والثقافية المعاصرة:1.
Pinker claims there is much opposition to the idea that biology (as opposed to parenting, etc.) is an important determinant of human behavior.
The reflex standard position in our society now is that behavior problems in kids are "ADHD" or some other medical diagnosis to be treated with a drug.
So it seems like our culture not only accepts biological explanations of behavior, but does so to excess.
After looking at other reviews here I see that Pinker has indeed gotten facts wrong, including misquotes of his opponents regarding major points.
However, Pinker argues that we will develop a much richer understanding of humankind if we consider the variety of influences on human nature and move away from the sterile (my words, not his) blank slate metaphor.Indeed, much of my academic research has focused on how an understanding of the life sciences can enrich our understanding of politics (I am a political scientist).
Pinker, by addressing the myth of the blank slate, does a boon for those who have a richer, more integrated sense of human nature.
Though this took me a fortnight to read, this is in no way a reflection of the book being hard going - this is a dense and well-researched exploration of a number of interlinked aspects of sociology, biology, genetics and politics..
Pinker argues well about a number of things, discusses various sociobiological (and less scientifically grounded) statements about subjects as wide-ranging as parenting, violence, art, rape, left/right wing politics, neuroscience, morals, selfishness/altruism, intelligence, game theory, religion..
I got more of a general sense of his arguments about the nature/nurture debate than an unequivocal answer - but I think that's Pinker's point, there is no easy or neat conclusion to draw.
