https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18769.I_Claudius_Claudius_the_God
This stuttering, doddering, somewhat foolish Roman monarch, whose reign was nestled between that of the brutally murdered madman Caligula and the suicide-selecting megalomaniac Nero, owes much of the public's actual awareness of his rule to Graves' inspired fictional memoirs.
Growing up either ignored or despised in the sprawling court of Augustus Caesar, Claudius is re-imagined as a scholastic boy with a sharp mind who suffered a dearth of confidence and lacked for any opportunity that would allow his peculiar talents to shine.
And it turns out he does a damn good job of it, which is a big relief to the Romans, who had to endure Tiberius (a cruel, selfish, impotent tyrant) and then Caligula (a fucking criminally insane egotist who bankrupted the empire).
This is how--in a story over 500 pages long--Claudius was raised and educated, survived, ascended to the emperorship, and went about fixing the huge mess his predecessors left him.
It's insane that Caligula ran the empire into the ground with his ridiculous extravagances and there were no checks and balances in place to stop him.
But more than simply being an effective narrator, Claudius has an interesting voice.
This edition contains two books, the original I, Claudius and the sequel, Claudius the God. I devoured them one after the other, and I have read them again many times since.
The author manages to portray an entire character in just a few beautifully chosen words.And, despite the debauchery and the Machiavellian intrigues, of which there are plenty, this book is an unrivalled character portrait.
The settings put you in ancient Rome, but it's the characters that bring it so vividly to life as Claudius manages to dodge his way through the lives of some of history's most famous monsters long enough to write his autobiography.A must read.
I, Claudius was one of my most riveting reads of the year.
Reading on to Claudius the God just as fast as I could was a no-brainer - and if it disappoints at all, it's only in comparison to its nigh-on perfect predecessor.
Claudius the God provides just as scintillating a look into Claudius's reign as the previous book did into Augustus's, Tiberias's, and Caligula's.
But it's also a more ponderous journey, and the exploration of the Empire as a whole does pale in comparison to the lively soap operas of Claudius's immediate family, as found more prominently in the first book.
Robert Graves's wonderful novels are white-hot with sex, murder, intrigue; never has Roman history been represented so ferociously and so seductively. Glorious.
Absolutely fantastic! The author did not only manage to describe what happened in his life and what he accomplished. He also managed to describe why he acted as he did in different situations, what choices he had and what he could have done different. He really gives the readers a good insight into the culture and mentality of his society. Prepare for a historical journey!
Like so many others, I was drawn to these books after watching the 1976 PBS adaption which enthralled and intrigued me.
Finally I am a Christian, and as a final note to my fellow believers I encourage these books and/or the PBS television series for no other reason than to put the New Testament in historical context from the Roman side.
I think you'll find, as I did, your depth, breadth, and understanding of the Gospels, Book of Acts, and the epistles exploding as you work through Mr. Grave's fine research and writing.
I loved this book for what Graves has to say, via Claudius, about writing history, historical fictional, and memoir.
My favorite passage, which is so hammy really (aka, look at what I'm doing, dear reader!), is Claudius' encounter with Livy and Pollio and the discussion that ensues on the proper way to write history.
Graves is at his best when his style is terse and crisp, and when that style perfectly matches Claudius' attitude toward the events in question.
He never moralizes or steps aside to give us perspective, hence the style must be our gloss to the events narrated.
When it is, the book is brilliant.
Haven't yet read Claudius The God pending a reread of I, Claudius this summer to refresh my memory on the particulars.
I, Claudius is one of my all-time favorites.
To this day I revere and aspire to emulate Livia, vile though she may be.
Such a driven and successful woman undergirding the power of the empire and fiercely pursuing the interests of herself and her family...
I've rarely seen so strong a female lead, which is to say such an honest portrayal of a woman in power.
Sian Phillips is amazing as Livia.
Derek Jacobi (Judi Dench's brother!) does very well as Claudius.
Just finished I, Claudius yesterday 2-5-09 for Classix. Have always wanted to read this but never got to it. Now I'm inspired to rewatch the old PBS series too. Plus I haven't read Claudius the God yet, but will put it on my list. I really enjoyed reading and learning again about ancient Rome. It must have been horrible to live with those wicked men ruling though.
I greatly enjoyed this book - it was very interesting and really well written...:) I learned a lot about the history and culture of Rome and at the same time I greatly admired the subtle sense of humour of the author! :) Two thumbs up! :)
Good book. Well written. Holds your attention. Some of the historical facts can be debatable. Makes it interesting to watch this on Masterpiece Theatre.
Wonderful work of literature. Couldn't put it down until I finished it, many years ago... And I'm thinking of reading it again just to relive the experience.
Total soap operas. Awesome.
Murder, backstabbing politics, infanticide - Good summer reading. LOL
“And what thoughts or memories, would you guess, were passing through my mind on this extraordinary occasion?
Was I thinking of the Sibyl's prophecy, of the omen of the wolf-cub, of Pollio's advice, or of Briseis's dream?
Of my grandmother Livia and my promise to deify her if I ever became Emperor?
No, you would never guess what was passing through my mind.
I was thinking, 'So, I'm Emperor, am I?
But at least I'll be able to make people read my books now.
And good books too, thirty-five years' hard work in them.
Pollio used to get attentive audiences by giving expensive dinners.
After watching the 1976 BBC series, I just had to read the book. I also have the dvd of the entire series and am overdue for a 'Claudathon'. I often discover books after seeing the corresponding movie/tv version first and usually find that they never seem to do the book justice or were not true to the book. Not so here. Reading the book was like reliving the series in my mind. Derek Jacobi will always be 'Claudius' to me.
Great book. Master author using great language. Enjoyed every bit while reading. At some points it gets too complicated to understand the relationships between characters and events. There are some very exciting points where some pretty dramatic conspiracies. This book will keep you up all night curious about what will happen next in this reality show of the family life of Roman royalty told by the eyes of Claudius.
I read Graves' masterpiece in the eighties and used it as my last school assignment in high school. I watched the BBC's series of I Claudius based on the novels of Robert Graves, but the book has something more, I felt very close to the main character. The book and the Dvd's are still on my top shelf and probably will stay there for a very long time.
It's been many years since I read these so I thought I'd pick them up again. I was glad I did. Then again, I do like historical novels and the Romans have always interested me (Ben Hur is my favourite film). I'm sure that some will find the books dull but for me they were very readable. And I can imagine the amount of research behind them - impressive!
Wonderful evocative history with nasty homocidal characters and a central character who seems to have wandered out of Narnia into a fully fledged massacre of his relatives over a series of changes in the Roman Ruling family. Great historical detail, you can almost smell Rome and feel the heat in the streets. One of my favourite history books and one I reread frequently.
Fantastic fictionalised account of the life of Emperor Claudius. Rightfully a classic, even though it starts to tire a bit towards the end (it’s very long..)
If Italy has ever been your home, these two books are for you.
A novel I read back in High School. Fantastic read. Detailed, complex, and entertaining.
Read this years ago, when the Masterpiece Theater show was shown. Great!

Story about the destruction of an idealist soul! At times I had a hard time reading it, because It's so one dimensionaly gruesome and hopeless! If you look for a proper balance between light and darkness, this is certainly not your book! This book is just straight dark!!!
Fantastic story. Really enjoyed this one. Didn't want it to end. Starts off slow so give it a chance.
It is a book that cemented my interest in Ancient Rome while encouraging me to seek out the original works that influenced much of its plot and keeping me massively entertained, all at the same time.
Surprisingly, it is not a dry historical recitation of genealogies and boring battle details: rather, it is a succession of political plots, deaths, adulteries, deceptions, blackmails, witchcraft, poisonings and other assorted mayhem.
There is never a dull moment!The novel is based upon the conceit that the Emperor Claudius decided, near the end of his life, to write an account of his own life and that of his immediate family so that the truly dreadful face of Imperialism would be revealed.
One of the very best works of historical fiction, this is just great.
