https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11991.The_Fall
So we talked Camus.
We just talked about Camus in relation to Dan’s life and in relation to mine.
Dan and I agreed that an interest in Existentialism is kind of a stage in your life – like when you liked Pearl Jam or lived in a little house that had a name and seven other people living in it.
We then agreed that a re-exploration of all things Existential is usually preceded by your significant other telling you to get bent.
Later Dan taught me how to cure a salmon, and we decided to co-host a dinner party in the second week of April.
Ανοίγεις τα κλειστά παράθυρα κι ας είναι νύχτα...Βγαίνεις κάπου έξω για να κοιτάξεις ψηλά,όσο πιο ψηλά μπορείς,φτάνει να αποφύγεις την ΠΤΩΣΗ.
Μπορείς να δεις το οδοιπορικό της ματαιοδοξίας και της ανούσιας φαινομενικότητας που οδηγεί με μαθηματική ακρίβεια στην Πτώση.
Όλων των προβληματισμένων που έχουν ωραίες απόψεις, κοσμική ζωή,φίλους,γνωστούς,οικογένεια, μόρφωση,εργασία και μικρή ή μεγάλη εξουσία.
Όσων αγαπούν μόνο απο συμφέρον και είναι ανίκανοι να το καταλάβουν, που λένε πάντα την ψεύτικη αλήθεια για να είναι αρεστοί και αποδεκτοί.
Που παραδέχονται αξίες και ιδανικά μόνο για να μην κατακριθούν απο άλλους άμεμπτους ψεύτες.
Τον αρπάζει απο το δουλοπρεπές"φαίνεσθαι" και τον σέρνει στον γολγοθά του "είναι".
“One plays at being immortal and after a few weeks one doesn't even know whether or not one can hang on till the next day.”― Albert Camus, The Fall“A single sentence will suffice for modern man: he fornicated and read the newspapers.” So pronounces Jean-Baptiste Clamence, narrator of Albert Camus’s short novel during the first evening of a monologue he delivers to a stranger over drinks at a shabby Amsterdam watering hole.
Let me start with a quote from Carl Jung: “I have frequently seen people become neurotic when they content themselves with inadequate or wrong answers to the questions of life.
The Anti-ChristWhy does the Judge-penitent address you directly, as if he has found a kindred soul in you?In this world responsibility is infinite and that is why The Fall is inevitable - even for a Christ.
And The Fall is to not acknowledge your guilt — to withdraw from the world into aestheticism (recall Kierkegaard’s A in Either/Or) and make your life’s central concern one of making yourself feel good about yourself and thus about the world.By the time Jean-Baptiste’s confession is over, you should realize that in fact the Judge-penitent is you.
Set in Amsterdam, The Fall consists of a series of dramatic monologues by the self-proclaimed "judge-penitent" Jean-Baptiste Clamence, as he reflects upon his life to a stranger.
In a eulogy to Albert Camus, existentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre described the novel as "perhaps the most beautiful and the least understood" of Camus' books.تاریخ نخستین خوانش: یکی از روزها در سال 1975 میلادیعنوان: سقوط؛ نوشته آلبر کامو؛ مترجم: ا.
a real do-gooder, a person of the people, doling out the goodwill and the spare change and the spare arm to help that blind person across the street.
this person looks at other people like they would look at a collection of amusing bugs.
this person doesn't actually like people all that much; this person despises them, more than a little.
I've never been with a perfect person before.you know this author, mark, or at least you thought you did.
the deepest wounds come from the people who are armed with empathy - they know exactly where and how to hurt you.
The next day, my boss told me the client had been pleased with my performance.After I discovered Goodreads, I began to feel that software projects were insufficiently challenging.
I know, one can hardly call my career a glorious one; but no doubt you have similar crimes on your conscience.Every author, I learned, longs to find the ideal reader who will read them as they know they should be read, who will understand all the things they wished to say but could not express.
Later, people felt that they had to write a book about the ideal reader.
The FallAlbert Camus I saw only superiority on myself, which explained my benevolence and peace of mind.  You are sitting in a bar in Amsterdam- the Mexico City- just after world war, when you chance an encounter with a ordinary being, a simple man popping up on the stage of your life. Jean-Baptiste Clamence comes across to you an ordinary citizen who tells you he used to be a lawyer but he’s now a judge-penitent. A strange kind of emotion provoked in your consciousness due to the announcement a
You are taken aback by a sudden terror realizing that the man you meet then is actually like you, it’s your own being, in fact he represents all humanity, the universal condition- hollowness of human existence.
The fall which Clamence experiences is not just his fall, it’s the fall of whole humanity as your whole history of existence is built around such false, self- assuaging norms, otherwise hollow in its core.
Only a novice would say that Clamence is Camus’s own voice- naively tracing the biographical elements in the books, however, the character of Clemence represents the reflection of a modern man living in post war.
پلیس هیچ وقت نتوانست سارق را بیابد.مدت ها بعد، شخصی به نام "آرسِن گودرتیر"، در بستر مرگ به وکیل خود گفت: او تنها کسی است که می داند "قضات پاکدامن" کجاست، و این راز را با خود به گور خواهد برد.در یکی از کشوهای او، کپی نامه های اخاذی ای که به اسقف فرستاده شده بود را یافتند و همچنین یادداشتی به این مضمون که: تابلو در جایی مخفی است که بدون جلب توجه عمومی، نمی توانند بیرونش بیاورند.گروهی حدس زدند که تابلو باید در خود کلیسا باشد، و با پرتوی ایکس، سرتاسر کلیسا را گشتند.

Do you want to have the very foundations on the basis of which your whole outlook towards life has been shaped, questioned?Do you want to see the lines between so-called good and evil, right and wrong, the moral and immoral blurred to the extent you could not distinguish one from the other?Do you want to erase that cherished and precious point of reference, against which you have compared, weighed all your actions, thoughts and feelings so far?If the answer to the above 3 questions is yes, then go ahead and read Albert Camus.
Oh hell yes.Do I know whether to label this book as a kind of doctrine on nihilism or existentialism or a curious combination of both?
The philosophical and psychological study of a man suffering inner turmoil and a crisis of existence, the man in question is one Jean Baptiste Clemance, a Parisian lawyer who while spending time in an Amsterdam bar starts to tell a moving, slightly disturbing story of self-pity and guilt to a complete stranger, only the feeling here was that a mirror was between them and felt more like a confession to himself rather than anyone else.
Deeply thought provoking, chilling, great narrative and with some memorable lines, my only issue was it's length at under a hundred pages, I craved for more.
قراءتي الثانية لهذه الرواية يمكن أن تختصر هذه الرواية في خمس كلمات فقط : العبث , التحدي , التمرد , اللامبالاة و اللاجدوى .على أنغام الفنان , الكاتب , الملحن و المغني البلجيكي الشهير ( جاك بريل ) و أغنيته المشهورة جدا " في ميتاء أمستردام " Jacques Brel - Le Port d'Amsterdam " تبدأ أحداث هي الرواية المونولوج لأن بطلنا واحد يقوم بالحوار و الوصف و الحركة..تبدأ من قلب حانة مطلة على ميناء أمستردام تسمى " حانة المكسيك " و يا لغرابة هذا الإسم .إن غياب التفكيرٍ العميقٍ لمعنى الحياة هو الشكل الآخر لرتابة الحياة، بالتالي نعود نسأل ما جدوى من المعاناة آنذاك...؟ بالتأكيد ما من جدوى....!يقول كامو: "..ان شعور بالعبث ياتي حينما يشعر الانسان ان الحياة بدون هدف، وانها مجرد روتين يومي ..
heberger une imageالموت و الحب :
heberger une imageالإزدواجية :
hebergement d image

The Fall by Albert Camus is the monologue of a breathless individual whose phrases follow each other in a frantic rhythm, giving himself up to an attentive interlocutor.
He then decides to reverse his role by positioning himself on the bench of the accused in order to judge himself without duplicity.He therefore exiled himself to Holland, a cold, hostile rocky country which he described as the gates of Hell.Clamence wants to repent of his sins, he becomes an observer, contemplates human ignominy, but he suffers, gets drunk and rubs shoulders with unfamiliar places.
Μονόλογος - παραλήρημα - εξομολόγηση μιας ζωής απόλυτα πετυχημένης και ευτυχισμένης φαινομενικά, αλλά απόλυτα άδειας εσωτερικά. Ένας ύμνος πάνω στη ματαιότητα της επαγγελματικής επιτυχίας, της ηθικής και του φαίνεσθαι. Και μια γερή κλωτσιά στα αμαρτήματα του καθημερινού ανθρώπου. Πρωταγωνιστής ένας πετυχημένος δικηγόρος που κάνει απολογισμό της ζωής του σε έναν άγνωστο... στη θέση του θα μπορούσε να είναι ο καθένας μας... Και αλήθεια.. δεν έχετε σκεφτεί ποτέ να πιάσετε έναν άγνωστο, εν είδει ψυχαναλυτή και να του πείτε όλα τα αμαρτήματα και τα ανομήματά σας?

As with most Camus, this book is, in the course of a hundred or so pages, an entire decade of therapy.
Each day the narrator, Jean-Baptise Clemence, tells more of the story of his life as a lawyer, his (existential!) crisis with life in general, and the resolution he's come to now, so many years later.I think my prior study of Existentialism helped understand this book, and thence a healthy portion of my enjoyment, but a deep knowledge of Camus is not necessary.
How foolish I was to assume this would be a quick little read.
How did Camus write this?
The words are like evil dark matter that establishes its authority right from the start and stays there dictating, vandalizing your property.
I cannot believe I am giving this a 5 star rating.
Writing this would have taken its toll on Camus, I am not ready to believe otherwise.
The last few pages are going to stay with me, like headless serpents.
I don't know, I feel blessed to be a believer, and also I'm shaken by this "quick little read".
Το τριτο μυθιστορημα του καμυ που και αυτο διαβαζεται απνευστι.ειναι αξιοθαυμαστο στα βιβλια οταν ο 
At the end of every freedom there is a sentence, which is why freedom is too heavy to bear.”“Your success and happiness are forgiven you only if you generously consent to share them.
Happy and judged, or absolved and wretched.” “Friendship is less simple.
Don't think for a minute that your friends will telephone you every evening, as they ought to, in order to find out if this doesn't happen to be the evening when you are deciding to commit suicide, or simply whether you don't need company, whether you are not in the mood to go out.
"دراسة ذكية لا يمكن مقوامتها للضمير المعاصر." -نيويورك تايمز/رواية السقطة.  "تعرف ما هو السحر: أن تحصل على الجواب بنعم من دون أن تسأل أسئلة واضحة" __________فلسفة عبثية تنبثق من الحاجة للمعنى والوضوح في عالم يعج بالغموض والتشتت.يقف ألبير ببطله على قمة الصراع بين الأنا والنحن، يحارب نفسه تارة، ويقذف بها تارة أخرى إلى منصة الإتهام، أو يتملص من تهمة أن يكون هو المتهم. "نحن مخلوقات إستثنائية. كلنا نريد أن نحكم على شيء. كل واحد منا يصر على براءته مهما كله ذلك ولو توجبعليه أن يتهم الجنس البشري بأسره
__________فلسفة عبثية تنبثق من الحاجة للمعنى والوضوح في عالم يعج بالغموض والتشتت.يقف ألبير ببطله على قمة الصراع بين الأنا والنحن، يحارب نفسه تارة، ويقذف بها تارة أخرى إلى منصة الإتهام، أو يتملص من تهمة أن يكون هو المتهم.
"مغطى بالرماد، أمزق شعري، وجهي تعلوه الخدوش وبعينين حادتين أقف أمام الإنسانية جمعاء ملخصاً عاري من دون أن أفقد التركيز في التأثير الذي أخلقه وأقول "أنا أحقر الأحقرين" وبعدها وبصورة تدريجية أنتقل من الـ "أنا" إلى الـ "نحن"“
من يتجرأ أن يعرف إلى أي درجة ستسحبه أنانيته، وغفلته عن دوافعه الحقيقية في لحظات اللاوضوح واللاحقيقة!.___________بعض من التعويم في السرد، وكثير من القلق، وجرعة من الاستمرارية تقف حائلاً بين التوقف والنضوب.
**The fall**My dear Camus, i love you.
Τι να πρωτοπώ για αυτό το βιβλίο...
Είναι απλά ένα ΑΡΙΣΤΟΥΡΓΗΜΑ που εγώ προσωπικά θεωρώ πως αξίζει όλοι οι άνθρωποι να το διαβάσουν μια φορά στην ζωή τους!Ο Κλαμάνς είναι ο ήρωας που κατέχει την αλήθεια, την αλήθεια που κανένας δεν είναι έτοιμος να δεχτεί ούτε να αντέξει...Ο μονόλογος του είναι ο μονόλογος ενός μέσου αστού, ενός καθημερινού ανθρώπου.
Ίσως μια εξομολόγηση...Όμως είναι γεμάτος κοφτερά "ξυράφια" που κόβουν πάνω σε θέματα όπως η εξουσία, η θρησκεία, η μισαλλοδοξία, ο έρωτας κλπ κλπ...
Ο λογοτεχνικός λόγος του Καμύ είναι σχεδόν δοκιμιακού χαρακτήρα και παρόλο που είναι η τρίτη φορά που το διαβάζω, μπορώ να πω πως είναι ένα δια βίου ανάγνωσμα....Ολόκληρη η κριτική στην Λέσχη του Βιβλίου: http://www.xn--ixauk7au.gr/forum/show...
Μια ψυχή είπε κάποτε οτι ο Καμύ γαμεί. Ε δε μπορώ παρα να συμφωνήσω. Και προσέχετε οσοι το διαβάσετε θα φάτε τα μούτρα σας πέφτοντας.
It was a short story that grew into a novella, and was published separately to the other short stories that were put together as Exile and the Kingdom.Let me firstly say that, of the three theatrical versions of Camus’ work that I have witnessed, it is Drew Tingwell’s performance as Jean-Baptiste Clamence, in Michael Cronin’s adapted-for-the-stage version of this book, that has most occupied a Camus protagonist for me during my rereading of his work this year.
The Outsider ascends to death on innocence, the Insider falls to life in guilt.Aren’t we all the same, continually talking, addressing no-one, constantly raising the same questions, even though we know the answers before we start?Clamence is the man for our times.
Κάτι κρύβεται λοιπόν μέσα σε αυτήν την διαπίστωση και ίσως να είναι η παραδοχή ότι οι καλές μας πράξεις δεν είναι τόσο αθώες, όσο θέλουν να δείχνουν.
Ποιοί πραγματικά είμαστε και πώς θα φερόμασταν, χωρίς κοινό να μας παρακολουθεί και να μας επευφημεί;Ένα βιβλίο που οι αλήθειες διαδέχονται η μια την άλλη και πονάνε, γιατί φτάνουν βαθιά μέσα στην ουσία των πράξεων μας και αποκαλύπτουν τα πραγματικά κίνητρά τους.Ένα βιβλίο που πρέπει να διαβαστεί απ' όλους.

When Camus won the Nobel prize for literature in 1957 he was up against Nikos Kazantzakis.
All I have to say is that at least Kazantzakis lost to a really worthy opponent.
Camus is fast becoming one of my favorite writers.
It is truly incredible how analytical his mind is and a real talent how he can project that to his work with a sense of humor, at times cynicism and always humility.
And in that sense I am back in my childhood and the innocence that longs to be corrupted.
" نحن جميعاً قضايا استثنائية "النجمة الخامسة لخاتمة الرواية .*القراءة الخامسة عشر مع IGRs
