https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11966836-below-stairs
I haven't seen Upstairs, Downstairs, but can only assume that it is also great) You can continue with this review if you like, but be forewarned that it will contain lots of references to Downton Abbey and probably Gosford Park too, and you will probably find yourself wondering why anyone would find the memoir of a maid in the 1930's so interesting.
It didn't hurt that Powell is a great narrator - in addition to dishing out the gossip and letting us know in no uncertain terms that being a kitchen maid sucks eggs, she's always reminding us that things were a lot harder before we had all this newfangled technology.
Her first domestic service job was as a kitchen maid, and she eventually worked her way up to cook, which was a prestigious position in a household.
But there is also spunk and gaiety in Margaret's stories, and she tells them so well that you feel as if you are sitting with her in the servants' hall, enjoying your afternoon tea and having a laugh about mean ol' Lady Gibbons.Update October 2013:My copy of this book has vanished and I am sad.
I wanted to reread a few of Margaret's stories and the book is no longer on my shelf.
This is probably my least favorite memoir of an English servant so far. She had an interesting perspective and experiences, but the tone of the book is just so bitter that it became hard to sit through after a while.
She is enraged by the ugliness and carelessness with which 'servant quarters' are furnished and vigorously ridicules employers' concern for the 'moral welfare' (ie religious observance and abstinence from sex and alcohol) of their staff when they care little enough for their physical or psychological welfare to provide them with unheated garrets, straw mattresses and leftover food.Neither much of a feminist (she complains about the appalling fate of women who became pregnant while 'in service' yet asserts proudly that her husband got 'good value from [her]' in terms of cooking, child-bearing and housekeeping) nor an egalitarian ('I don't particularly envy rich people but I don't blame them.

It is a very informative book, especially for someone who likes to read historical fiction which take place in UK amongst upper class.
(e.g.: there weren't fridges, nobody heard of something like a diet or healthy eating.)Then, you have here different examples of a upper-class representative.
Although it was so hard I felt it was also happy, because even in the worst circumstances children want to be happy.
Secondly, that Margaret Powell's experience as a house servant included times when that service went through a very big changes.
Stories, memories were very engaging.
I wasn't bored at any time.
Like Margaret, she decided to marry and be a mum, but unlike Margaret, she was pretty and outgoing and didn't have a problem finding a suitable (actually unsuitable was more the case) husband.Powell makes some astute observations and social commentary that were right in line with the sufferage movement that gave women the vote but it was probably WWI that opened up society and started the movement towards a more fair and equitable society where wages were earned for a fair day's work and the understanding that treating servants, or laborers or any working class trade, fairly and more humanely was a way to keep them in your service for a longer.
Is was going to take much more time, another world war, the rise of socialism, massive immigration and the raise of feminism before bright, intelligent women like Powell go their day.
Very easy and enjoyable read. Loved how Margaret Powell didn't romanticize the jobs and roles of servants like many other books I've read. Also appreciated hearing the opinions she had in regards to feminism and the injustices of the poor as well as the plight of those in the servant industry in EnglandWish it were a bit longer but am now waiting for her second book which is a sequel to this one.
That directness really does work well, because the reader is firmly put at the same level as the servants; and, boy, don't a number of the employers seem to inhabit some rarefied and distant plane!Yes, one is left wishing that employers would be more considerate of the quality of life of their servants.
But one can well see in Margaret Powell the dilemma to many: wondering how to be a humane employer, without encouraging advantage to be taken.
That dilemma persists today.
Plus ça change.A good read, and yes, very funny.
Bien como relato de una época y acercamiento a lo que era la vida del personal doméstico a principios del siglo XX. Pero la narración es flojísima y muy aburrida por momentos. Me ha costado mucho acabarlo.
I do not know what her later books are like but in this her first memoir she provides the stark reality of below stairs drudgery and the often inhumane expectations of her superiors.Movies and TV series (for entertainment enhancement) tend to overlook the worst occupational hardships and social deprivations which so many domestics had to endure.
Powell's book can provide a necessary corrective for those misrepresentations.
What a contrast to read this right after Julia Child's "My Life in France." With her acerbic wit and keen eye for social injustice -- not to mention the intellectual perseverance that led her to finally take and pass her O-levels after her children were grown -- Powell was clearly a force to be reckoned with, "in service" and out.
Powell took the bone-weary life of a kitchen maid, where she literally worked 16 hours a day nonstop, seven days a week, and made a career as a cook, which required all the ingenuity of Julia Child and more.
E' un libro interessante che descrive la vita dei domestici che lavorano nelle case degli aristocratici degli anni trenta ma senza i dettagli che mi aspettavo di trovare.
Di "loro", cioè dei suoi datori di lavoro, sappiamo poco o niente e Margaret Powell li ha spesso in tale antipatica (di solito più che meritata) da accennarne solo qualche fatto negativo e basta.
In generale mi aspettavo qualche cosa di più, anche sulla vita dei domestici quando invece è come se Margaret facesse un veloce riassunto della sua vita a servizio senza scendere mai troppo nei dettagli (dettagli che avrei apprezzato molto).
Costretta ad abbandonare gli studi perché non può permetterseli, Margaret va a servizio, prima come sguattera e poi come cuoca.L’edizione Einaudi sottolinea come questo libro abbia ispirato la serie televisiva Downton Abbey, ma a dir la verità qui i saloni sfolgoranti che si menzionano in quarta di copertina sono visti solo di sfuggita.
Margaret può parlare con certezza e proprietà solo di seminterrati bui e scale di servizio.Una testimonianza che mostra l’enorme differenza tra ricchi, poveri ed arricchiti.
Scritta in modo semplice da una penna schietta, senza falsi moralismi: mai stucchevole né troppo amara, a tratti divertente.
Un libro de memorias, escrito con suma sencillez, pero que a mí me ha resultado ameno e interesante sobre todo como reflejo de la mentalidad de la época. Margaret trabajó durante los años veinte y treinta en el servicio doméstico y lo describe con una visión práctica, crítica y muy cercana. Se nota que es real y eso siempre lo hace más valioso.
Si tratta delle memorie di una ragazzina del popolo nata nel 1907, andata andata a lavorare a quindici anni come sguattera e diventata presto cuoca, lavoro molto più prestigioso del precedente, come si può immaginare.
Non mi ha convinta molto perché dà l'impressione di non raccontare sé stessa com'era, ma di commentare gli avvenimenti col senno di poi, del 1968, anno di pubblicazione del libro.
Mi pare preoccupazione singolare, dato che il marito era nella RAF e i piloti della RAF venivano giù come frutti maturi.
:)The author has an easy, flowing narrative of her life growing up very poor, then working in service.
It was a fascinating glimpse of those days gone by.The maid and cook portion of the book was also interesting as the reader got to see just how an elegant - or pretentious - house was run through the eyes of the author.
And again, the author didn't hold resentment towards any, though her words were less flattering.
All in all, I really enjoyed this book and think that, for a week, I would have liked to have experienced just what was involved in her job working in service.
While I did enjoy learning about Downstairs life, it was rather a slow read for me. Margaret Powell did have some interesting stories in the book but most of the book seemed negative. Negative on not just being a servant but life it self. I see that the author wrote more books, maybe give another one a try. Overall, not a bad book but not something that really held my attention.
The author's perseverance to read books, to educate herself and to aim high was quite admirable, and probably this gives the book its not too simplistic writing style and interesting narrative.
I feel though that it was somewhat superficial, in the sense that although I read it with interest, I did not feel quite engaged with the goings on or the characters.
I can see how it became an inspiration for those serials, which were very nicely produced, so perhaps I should have watched them after reading the book that now seemed a bit plain.
Libro poco interessante in cui Margaret Powell racconta le sue esperienze con un tono discorsivo e un linguaggio poco curato: la sensazione è di leggere un'intervista che sia stata trascritta parola per parola senza alcuna rielaborazione.
La narrazione è disseminata di osservazioni poco pertinenti (l'autrice, ogni tanto, racconta quello che ha letto qualche giorno prima su un quotidiano), giudizi svalutanti verso chi è diverso (ad esempio gli omosessuali), luoghi comuni e scarsa empatia verso chiunque non sia l'autrice stessa.
Forse è mancato un buon lavoro di editing o, più semplicemente, si tratta di un libro brutto che si può anche evitare di leggere.
The story of a woman who worked in service and had to rely on her employers to survive.
If you have watched TV shows like Downton Abbey you will know that being in domestic service meant to have a hard life.
When Margaret travels from position to position, I really enjoyed seeing all her different employers and her commentary regarding their habits and life made the book really amusing from time to time.Her career started as a kitchen maid and she continued to be a cook.
But if you like stories like this and love TV shows like Downton Abbey, you will thoroughly enjoy it.
Downton Abbey non c'entra niente; lì c'è una trama, succedono cose, qui al contrario si capisce come la vita di chi strofina il pavimento o lustra le pentole di rame sia senza storia.
Il suo pregio ė l'autenticità, una descrizione della realtà senza abbellimenti .
A Downton Abbey sono graziose perfino le divise delle cameriere, a righe verdine o grigie e in perfetta armonia con i colori della cucina sullo sfondo; qui tutto stride, a ricordarci che le disuguaglianze così forti non possono che essere stridenti.
While the book was enjoyable, I got the overall impression that Powell was somewhat bitter about her experiences as a domestic servant (kitchen maid and ultimately, a cook) even though she denies feeling that way.
Not that being a beckon-call domestic was an undemanding job - I have no doubt Powell worked her fingers to the bone, especially for some very ungrateful employers in her early teenage years when she first started off as a kitchen maid.
She ultimately bullies her way from kitchen maid to full cook at a different residence, even though she may not have been quite ready for such position.
Words and expressions I learned:pantechnicon: a furniture vansaxe blue: a light blue-gray colorsaddle of mutton: a cut of meat consisting of a sheep's backbone and both loinsknife-powder: a fine grit that people used for cleaning knives before stainless steel was inventedbun day: I can't find what this one means, but apparently it's a kind of holidaya face like the back of a bus: unattractivesnaffle: to take something (such as food, a boyfriend, or a husband) quickly for yourself.
Even a man with a face like the back of a bus, if you tell him he doesn't look too bad, believes you.
I don’t often read biographies or autobiographies, but the narrative flow of this book is so smooth and well-conceived, you’d almost swear that you were reading a novel rather than a candid memoir of a foregone world.As a fan of Downton Abbey, I found this book to be a terrific companion to the series; it illuminates readers on both the societal strata of society of that era and the life experiences of a domestic servant.
The cover of the book compares Below Stairs to "Downton Abbey" and "Upstairs, Downstairs." In fact, the image of Daisy, the kitchen maid in "Downton Abbey" kept floating through my mind as I read.
But what this book has that the two series don't is a closely wrought picture of the life and heart of a kitchen maid.
In Margaret Powell's stories, we see not only how tough the work was, but the toughness of mind and the emotional calluses that she needed to form to do that work.
Divertente, non c'è che dire.
Ovvio che tra le famiglie per cui lavora ce ne saranno di più e di meno nobile, di più e di meno "illuminate", quelle che trattano la servitù come persone e non come parti dell'arredamento.
Ovvio che fra i diversi aneddoti ci sia qualcosa che ha ispirato anche lo sceneggiatore del serial tv.Ciò che passa sotto silenzio invece è il desiderio di questa bambina, poi ragazza e donna, di leggere.
Di parlare di cultura con i suoi pochi spasimanti, quella cultura che non ha potuto procurarsi perché andare a scuola costava troppo.

An interesting little read but for all the hyped up description and allusions to links with Downton Abbey, Below Stairs is really nothing stand out.
That's not to say that it's not worth a look but if it was inspiration for Downton Abbey, then it was a very loose inspiration.
It didn't tell me any more than The Maid's Tale and that is exactly the problem with the overblown descriptions - it is an enjoyable read, but it doesn't actually have anything much to justify it being highlighted over other books in the genre.
First published in 1968 in Britian; first U.S. edition 2012. Written as if Margaret Powell was conversing off the cuff, this gives a glimpse of life in the strictly class-drive society of early 20th Century England. It was all "us," the serant class, vs. "them," the upper-class employers -- not that all the employers consciously looked down on the help, but that many they didn't even think of them as people or notice their presence in the room. You'll like Margaret's keen sense of observation, as well as her forthrightness and honesty.
