https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11607.The_Running_Man
I ended up reading this book in one day! Fast-paced action pack book that will keep you on adrenaline. Would recommend!
Stephen King wrote it in his "Bachman" phase, maybe it's a minor novel.
Hell of a future.Vote: 8Mentre mi entusiasmo per la fantascienza / distopia di acclamate serie TV quali "Black Mirror" o "The Handmaid's Tale", mi ritrovo per le mani "L'uomo in fuga", che scopro aver ispirato il film "L'implacabile".
Stephen King lo ha scritto in fase "Bachman", forse si tratta di un libro minore.
E meno male: minore il caspito!!L'idea dei reality show viene esasperata, e la vita in diretta del nostro presente diventa morte in diretta nel futuro che ci presenta King.

After The Most Dangerous Game, there was The Running ManBefore The Hunger Games, there was The Running ManAfter 1984, there was The Running ManBefore reality TV, there was The Running ManThis is a disturbing and enthralling cautionary tale predicted by our fore fathers, seen in new dystopian novels, and becoming all too real in this age of political turmoil, social media, and reality overload.One of King’s early novels under his Pseudonym Richard Bachman, he mentions in the foreward that it has a darker tone that he tended to use when writing as Bachman.
Not only did I read this in the original Bachman Books, it was the first Stephen King book I ever read!
I was not disappointed at the time and I was not disappointed this time either.If you like cautionary dystopian tales, I think you have to read this.
When Ben Richard's daughter gets pneumonia, he turns to the Network for help and becomes a contestant on the deadliest of reality shows, The Running Man. Can Richards run long enough to earn the money for his daughter's medicine?
Actually, apart from a couple character names, the dystopian setting, and the concept of a reality show where the contestants will likely die, it has very little resemblance to the Arnold flick.Richard Bachman really liked his dystopias, didn't he?
In order to make some money, he winds up on The Running Man, running for his life in a polluted world that's falling apart.The suspense in this thing builds and builds as Richards gets deeper into the game.
Granted, they are a little more brutal than what we have right now, but within the next few years, when the book is set, I'm sure we'll have advanced to this level of evil entertainment.Here are the names of some of the reality shows that are popular:Swim with CrocodilesFun GunsHow Hot can You Take it?Dig your own Graveand Treadmill to Bucks (you have to have a heart condition to play this one)In some of these shows, you are just maimed or end up in a hospital, but the biggest show, "Running Man", is the most popular.
As his daughter's condition worsens, Richards enters himself in a live TV game show called Running Man. For as long as he can survive, Richards will flee across the country and earn 100 New Bucks for every hour he is alive.
Granted, the characters Richards meets on the run are an interesting assortment of people.
It's the story, I think, that gets the spotlight this time around.Overall, THE RUNNING MAN was a fantastic read that is dark, action-packed, and a little wonky, if you will.
Yeeeeeeah I don't know. Not his best work. I was bored most of the time and I feel like a lot of things just worked out for the protagonist out of luck (or simply because of our beloved plot device "deus ex machina" - which is kind of funny because King talks about that in his book "Misery").I actually liked the ending though, which he sucks at most of the time so that's good lol - and I'll forever adore his writing style!
كيف تحول شخص عادي إلى بطل و أيقونة و كيف تحول المظلوم إلى مجرم سفاح و كيف تتلاعب بالعقول فتصور الديكتاتور بطل و زعيم و تصور الحاكم العادل ضعيف و مهزوز و فاسد!كم من برنامج تلفزيوني أو حملة إعلامية رفعت أقواما و خفضت أقواما بغير وجه حق و كم من مسخ من مسوخ الشاشات قلبوا الحق باطلا و الباطل زينوه للناس.ليست مجرد واحدة من تلك القصص و لا حتى يمكن مقارنتها بالفيلم الساذج المأخوذ عنها للبطل الساذج دائما أرنولد شوارزنيجر.قبل أكثر من ثلاثين عاما كتبها كينج لتدور أحداثها في المستقبل المظلم التعس حين تشرف الأرض على الفناء و تتحكم الميديا في البشر بقيادة طغمة من الأشرار تحركهم الإعلانات.و لأنه كان في العام 1982 و تخيل أحداثها تدور في العام 2025 فقد ظن أنه أسرف في الخيال إلا أن الواقع فاق ما تصور و جاءت النهاية و كأنها أحداث سبتمبر الشهيرة التي أدت لنسف البرجين في مانهاتن.
Relentless.Stephen King’s 1982 novel, published under the pen name of his darker alter ego Richard Bachman, describes a feral dystopian landscape where over population, under employment, financial segregation of society along cultural and class lines and woefully deficient in fundamental healthcare has led to an almost Roman decadence of survival games and cheap entertainment for the pitiful masses.
King’s protagonist signs up for the games to get money to assist his family when pneumonia threatens the life of his infant child.Told with an inevitable countdown to the brutal end, King portrays Richard’s plight as he is a contestant on The Running Man, a nationally viewed show where the hunted has to stay alive as long as possible to earn more money.
Read for Popsugar's 2018 Reading Challenge #28: a book with song lyrics in the titleThis was a pretty fun ride, but didn't leave a huge impact on me. The concept of the story was INCREDIBLE, but I feel like the execution wasn't quite there. It was a fast-paced action ride, but I wanted a bit more. However, it was very ~cool~ and I feel like if you enjoy Black Mirror (particularly "Fifteen Million Merits") or the movie Gamer this will be right up your alley.
Η ιστορία εκτυλίσσεται σε μια παρηκμασμένη Αμερική το 2025. Ο ήρωας μας (ο Ρίτσαρντ) ο οποίος είναι πιο φτωχός και απο τον Βασιλάκη Καΐλα έχει μια κόρη η οποία έχει πνευμονία! Ο τύπος δεν έχει χρήματα να πάρει φάρμακα.. Ε και τι σκέφτηκε νομίζετε ο σατανάς ..Να λάβει συμμετοχή σενα τηλεπαιχνίδι όπου το έπαθλο του νικητή είναι αρκετές χιλιάδες δολλάρια.Το παιχνίδι δεν είναι του τύπου Big brother και the Wall με τον Κλεάνθη και τη Ρούλα, αλλά ένα ριάλιτι, το οποίο είναι του στύλ σου αφήνω ένα μικρ
Ο ήρωας μας (ο Ρίτσαρντ) ο οποίος είναι πιο φτωχός και απο τον Βασιλάκη Καΐλα έχει μια κόρη η οποία έχει πνευμονία!
Ε και τι σκέφτηκε νομίζετε ο σατανάς ..Να λάβει συμμετοχή σ΄ενα τηλεπαιχνίδι όπου το έπαθλο του νικητή είναι αρκετές χιλιάδες δολλάρια.Το παιχνίδι δεν είναι του τύπου Big brother και the Wall με τον Κλεάνθη και τη Ρούλα, αλλά ένα ριάλιτι, το οποίο είναι του στύλ σου αφήνω ένα μικρό περιθώριο να κρυφτείς και μετά θα σε ψάχνει μια ολόκληρη χώρα να σε σκοτώσει.
Φίλε Ρίτσαρντ σου έχω νέα, υπάρχει κάτι που ονομάζεται ΔΟΥΛΕΙΑ, θες να μου πεις οτι δεν είχες άλλες επιλογές?
Προτίμησες να σκοτώσεις τη μισή Νέα Υόρκη να τραμπουκίσεις την άλλη μισή για μια AUGMENTIN των πεντακοσίων και σου φταίει η κοινωνία και ο άτιμος ντουνιάς?
أكتر حاجة تضايق الواحد لما تكون رواية كويسة وفكرتها شيقة وممتعة وثورية وكاتب زي سيتفن كينج وفى الاخر
The Running Man completes my read of the four early Bachman Books.
Schwarzenegger uses some wit and the muscles to survive the death match game show that is The Running Man. Once again, the movie is the reason I never bothered to read the book, and once again I made a mistake by not doing so.
Hint: They changed the story.Some aspects of the book found their way into the movie.
A bit of the persona that is Ben Richards; His wry humor with a forbidding undertone; The Network and a version of Free-Vee (great term by the way); and finally a near-constantly moving plot in a dystopian future.
With rumours of real Hunger Games being played out in Siberia, I found this sickeningly scary in its implications.
Beware of governments who will make it compulsory to watch dystopian TVBBC report 6/12/2017Description: The Running Man is set within a dystopian future in which the poor are seen more by the government as worrisome rodents than actual human beings.
The protagonist of The Running Man, Ben Richards, is quick to realize this as he watches his daughter, Cathy, grow more sick by the day and tread closer and closer to death.
Una novela distopica de Stephen King en la que Ben Richards, un padre de familia de la clase pobre del futuro, decidir entrar a un concurso para poder conseguir dinero y salvar a su hija.
Es el show favorito de todos, así que la gente que de pistas sobre el paradero de el fugitivo también ganara algunos dólares.
Cruel y morboso son las dos palabras que se me vienen a la mente y sobretodo un gran final (algo en lo que King no es muy bueno)Le termino poniendo 3.8 de 5 estrellas, es una lectura rápida y entretenida.
Richard Bachman and I are not friends.
Unless, that is, you want to be on a game show run by the corrupt government.
Ben is selected to be one of the star contestants on  The Running Man!Ben is given a head start of 12 hours, $100 for each day he survives, and an additional $100 for every law enforcement agent he kills.
Ben doesn’t want to hurt anyone, he just wants the 1-billion-dollar cash prize promised in the event that he lasts 30 days.
There are special stipulations Ben must abide by- he is given a pocket camera and must mail in two videos per day.
Halt!  If you have yet to read this  Stephen King  as  Richard Bachman  book, let it be known that the introduction should be cordoned off with ‘spoiler warning’ tape…but it's not. I would chalk it up to King's beef with the outing of Bachman (which I totally respect), but the same thing happened to me with   Pet Sematary,   so that theory's a bust. (Shoutout to Richard for attempting to save me from myself after that first debacle.)Wasn't my favorite King or Bachman adventure, perhaps because
Halt!
If you have yet to read this 
Stephen King
Richard Bachman
book, let it be known that the introduction should be cordoned off with ‘spoiler warning’ tape…but it's not.
I would chalk it up to King's beef with the outing of Bachman (which I totally respect), but the same thing happened to me with 
(Shoutout to Richard for attempting to save me from myself after that first debacle.)Wasn't my favorite King or Bachman adventure, perhaps because these “dystopias” are starting to feel all too familiar (and, an argument could kind of be made that we're already there).
Nevertheless, like all of Uncle Stevie's work, it's well-worth the read.
I loved this book. I know I saw the movie years ago, but I don't know if I ever read the book. It was a fast paced book full of action. I was feeling tense for the main character the whole time. The futuristic setting and societal make up was interesting to me. The ending was a surprise for me and it was a perfect end to the book. A 5 star read for me!
Este es uno de los libros que más me sorprendieron de Stephen King.
No lo tenía pensado leer, ya que no me atraen mucho las novelas de ciencia ficción/futuristas o las llamadas distópicas.
Sin embargo, al ver que recibía muy buenas criticas, me decidí por darle una oportunidad.Fue toda una aventura.
Tiene uno de los mejores inicios que tuve el placer de leer, y con respecto al final...
por Dios...
¡Qué final!Ya terminando, les digo que es una novela muy rápida y que tengan mucho cuidado, porque uno de los efectos secundarios de involucrarte en esta historia es una adicción irrefrenable.
I know a lot of people have mixed feelings about King’s work as Bachman but I’ve quite enjoyed each one I’ve read so far. This one definitely isn’t my favourite out of the gang but it was excellent nonetheless! I really enjoy the rawness that you get when King writes as Bachman, it draws me in every time! My only minor complaint about this story is the ending, it’s not quite how I was hoping it would end but it was an intriguing ending anyways.
This was thumping good fun!This is probably the fastest I've ever paged through a King novel.
King said this is also the fastest he's ever written a novel.
Impressive.I'd say The Running Man veers slightly away from the typical King novel.
Another thing, "Maggot" seems to appear in many of his novels, something King likes to use as a cursory name.
Yet, the reality is that the cards are stacked against us, just as the odds were always stacked against Ben Richards in The Running Man. I know, that's a morbid and depressing view of life, but it is our current reality.
In an attempt to earn enough money to buy the medicine his daughter needs (and to keep his wife off her back), he heads down to the Games Commission one day to see if he can make it onto one of the Free-Vee shows that all the poor saps watch to see the other poor saps humiliate themselves.He passes all of the tests with flying colours and finds himself the newest contestant on The Running Man (dur), a show where he will attempt to evade professional hunters for 30 days.
Audiobook – Narrated by Kevin Kenerly – Good narration.My first Kevin Kenerly audiobook and I enjoyed it very much.
And no background music!!***Ebook:My second read for this novel and, as for the first time, the protagonist Ben Richards spoiled it for me.
While I understand the reason for his anger and bitterness, I couldn’t bring myself to feel any sympathy for him.“You’ll have to make allowances for Mr. Richards,” Killian said, smiling.
This was an excerpt from the then unpublished novel IT.Co-op City (Dark Tower 3 - The Wastelands)
Dear Mr. Stephen king,If you met with this review by some chance/ miracle one day, please make sure to break your contract with "Arab scientific publishers".If the reading process add more lives to your own, the translation of your books by them actually wastes the only life you will ever have.السيد المحترم / ستيفن كينجإن صادفت يوما هذه المراجعة بالصدفة البحتة أو المعجزة الفريدة، فضلا تأكد من فسخ عقد ترجمة مؤلفاتك مع " الدار العربية للعلوم" - ناشرون ؛ فإن كانت القراءة تضيف للفرد أعمارا فوق عمره، فتحمل مثل تلك الترجمة قد تضيع أياما و أياما من العمر هباء.
In order to obtain money to cover his sick daughter's health costs, Ben Richards takes part in a game show called The Running Man, wherein the contestant is allowed to run anywhere as a pack of "Hunters" chase them and try to kill them within a certain time frame.The Running Man is the first Bachman novel I've read and I felt like I could definitely see a difference with regards to King's usual style of writing.
Hard to put my finger on exactly...but I look forward to reading more Bachman books.
In terms of the book itself, it was a fun, quick read.
When the baby gets pneumonia, Ben gets desperate, and signs up with the Network to appear on a game show for money.
But then I got to thinking about how the Network goes out of its way to demonize the contestants participating in The Running Man, turning everyday citizens into blood-thirsty vigilantes who think that they are working towards a greater good in ridding their country of criminals...
Ben definitely plays by his own rules, and the way things work out was not at all what I expected.
I was pretty surprised to see this book lurking around a second-hand store.
KingMy second surprise was of course that the book was good.
I probably shouldn't have been so naive as to think the book would be anything like the spandex rubbish that the movie was, but whatever.Running man depicts a future where the underclass are controlled by television, whether being glued to the screen at home, or being part of the show.
si legge col fiatone...Beh, ogni tanto bisogna concedersi qualche "americanata" come svago mentale.Non per altro da questo libro hanno tratto un film ("L'implacabile") con protagonista il muscoloso Schwarzenegger.Pubblicato con lo pseudonimo di Richard Bachman ne "L'uomo in fuga" ci s'immagina un futuro 2025(per noi ormai prossimo!!!) in cui il dominio di vizi e perversioni di ogni sorta è diventato normalità.(view spoiler)[ La società è prigioniera della Tri-tivù dove 24 ore su 24 vengono trasmessi agghiaccianti reality show in cui i disperati si prestano ad essere carne da macello.
