https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1323320.The_First_Woman_Doctor
A Scholastic book that I owned and read as a child.
She faced a lot of adversity and sexism, yet she never let go of her dreams--and, indeed, embellished on those dreams and goals as time went on.I knew almost nothing about her, so my review is also going to be my thoughts as I read.I love that Mr. Blackwell allowed all of his children to have the same education, to let them pursue their own interests.
To develop a hospital in which females could be both nurses and doctors.
I really like this book because of the information it gave me.
The book was about Elizabeth Blackwell and her life becoming a doctor.
She lived in a household were her father wanted equal rights for everyone and for men and woman to be able to all the same jobs.
She then tirelessly worked to become a woman doctor.
There were many obstacles that could have stopped her and stopped all the other woman to become doctors after her.
The biggest obstacle was her getting very ill.
I would recommend this book to other people for how inspiring it is to read.
Elizabeth is pressing on in hard times. Even when her eyes get damaged she finds that she won't be able to be a surgeon 👩🏼⚕she takes on hygiene. I think this book is written well ,but some words are hard to know what they mean. I recommend this book for anyone who wants to learn more about Elizabeth and her life. This book is perfect for most ages but littler kids won't get all of it.
Elizabeth is pressing on in hard times. Even when her eyes get damaged she finds that she won't be able to be a surgeon 👩🏼‍⚕️she takes on hygiene. I think this book is written well ,but some words are hard to know what they mean. I recommend this book for anyone who wants to learn more about Elizabeth and her life. This book is perfect for most ages but littler kids won't get all of it.
Elizabeth Blackwell was born in England, near Bristol on February 3, 1821, she was the first woman to graduate from medical school in the United States and is often thought of as America’s first woman doctor.
Blackwell changed the course of modern medicine, finding hospitals and medical colleges for women in the United States and England and breaking barriers against women in medicine on two continents.she was born at a time when women were rfused basic human rights.Elizabeth had a full family with brothers and siaters of nine.
She also met young Florence Nightingale, just before she defied her family to study nursing.A year later Elizabeth returned to New York City determined to open her own practice.
When the exceptional family emigrated to America Mr. Blackwell embraced the controversial Abolitionist movement--providing inspiration for his older sons wholater allied themselves with the vocal women's movement.Elizabeth proved amply suited for her self-imposed role of medical pioneer, by insisting on entering a medical college--despite the scorn and hostility of teachers, fellow students and even the townspeople of Geneva, NY.
No medical school in the States or Europe would consider training a mere woman to compete with male doctors (a medical Citadel).
This book is a Must for any course on Women's Rights and 19th century social reform.
I think it is cool how Elizabeth can overcome her fears and stick up for women's rights
I loved this book when I read it as a kid, and it actually inspired me to become a physician. I recommend it!
This is an interesting, appropriate book for advanced ELLs.
Elizabeth was different from her siblings and friends from a very young age.
Sending her off in search of a college that would accept her, he prepared her for the fact that not everyone thought that women should be allowed to be doctors.
She asked every hospital in the area if they would hire her, but all of them thought that women could only be nurses, not doctors.
It struggled for years, but eventually grew into a medical school for women as well as a thriving hospital.
This young girl was named Kitty, and grew to become Elizabeth's best friend and daughter.
The First Woman Doctor: The Story of Elizabeth Blackwell is a biography for 4th grade and above.
This was during a time when there were no woman doctors.
Elizabeth was considered as a strange child who did things that others did not understand.
After facing many obstacles, Elizabeth was able to be a successful doctor.
This book could be used to teach the students about overcoming adversity or how to be successful even others do not support you.
It could be used as a teaching tool to recognize that at that time in history there were no woman doctors.
This book "The First Woman Doctor" was a very moving story.
This book was about A very strong and dedicated woman who fought to become the first woman doctor.
Usually when I see black and white pictures that shows me what time frame that the authors want you to think of.
I recommend this book because it shows children determination that you should never give up if someone tells you no about something but you believe in your heart that you can do it you should continue to try and reach your goals.
A great history of an amazing woman!
I loved the sub heading, "It took courage to be the first."I was given this book by a teacher on the last day of fourth grade.
She was one of the greatest teachers I've ever had, and she was telling us how proud she was of our year, and how much potential she could see in us.
She made direct eye contact with each student and said, "I see amazing scientists, wonderful teachers, incredible engineers...
etc." and when she said doctor, she looked straight into my eyes and handed me this book.
There wasn't any women doctors in America in that time, and Elizabeth had to go throught private training and had to keep trying to apply for medical school when the school always rejected her.
This book really inspired me to actually keep trying despites the odds.
Cause in the book Elizabeth kept pursuing her dreams and she eventuall got it.
She changed the history of the medical world because if it wans't for her, there probably won't be women doctors today.
I would recommend this book to anyone to enjoys reading books about pursuing their dreams.
i started reading this book thinking it would be good for my kids to read about the first woman doctor.
despite the fact that it's listed as a young adult or children's book, i really liked it.
the writing was simple but not overly so (i've read worse writing in books that were actually written for adults).
it was actually a really good book and had lots of interesting stuff in it.
i also found it interesting how elizabeth knows harriet beecher stowe.
if you're looking for a quick read that's interesting and informative about an important woman in history, check this one out.
This book is on the first woman doctor, Elizabeth Blackwell, who had to struggle for years in hopes of reaching her dream. Despite all who were against her and her dream, she continued on overcoming many obstacles that were believed to be impossible for women at that time. My impression of this book when I first read it was how amazing people can be when they are determined individuals who fight against all odds to achieve their goals. I recommend this book to anyone who likes reading about historical figures.
The Story of Elizabeth Blackwell is pretty much just a documentary of Ms. Blackwell's life. It was interesting but I cannot say that I thoroughly enjoyed it overall. It is encouraging for a person, mostly a girl, to read in the sense of how determined Elizabeth was to become a doctor, but other than that, unless you are a fan of Elizabeth Blackwell, read this when you have time to spare because it might take a couple days to get through.
I think this book is an encourage book to young adult. during that time, no woman was excepted in society. But Elizabeth had a dream of being the first woman doector, so she didn;t give up even no college had except her to be one of the student. finally, she success by her non- stop quality of working. It took courage to be first. because there;s no example to follow, you are the example for other to follow. but i think courage can take you one step closer from success.!!
Reading the story of Rachel Baker (the first woman who became a physician in America – well at that time only 2 year college degree, but medicine could not do very much for people apart bleeding them to death) was interesting, but just a bit… The book is a scholastic one and the author not certainly a writer
In about 3rd or 4th grade, I went through a stage where I read lots of biographies, especially famous women. This is one I still remember--not just for Elizabeth Blackwell's story, but her whole family's social awareness.
I read this for a class in middle school. I remember it being an inspirational story that gave girls and women the message that they could do and be whatever they wanted if they only put their minds to it.
What a great book. I had not heard of Elizabeth Blackwell before. She was the first woman doctor in the US. The strides she made for women, medicine and the patient was a joy to read. The is a YA book, so the writing is not the most smooth but the story well worth reading.
She was the first woman doctor. Elizabeth Blackwell played an amazing role in history.
5th grade reading level - interesting & inspiriational Bio
The story of Elizabeth Blackwell, America's first woman doctor, who by pursuing her own dream, gave other women the chance to become doctors
Three is generous--I gave it 2 1/2 on LibraryThing. See http://www.eatreadandbemommy.com/2015... to find out why!
this story influenced my greatly as a kid.
5 stars for an amazing woman who persevered and reached her goal of becoming a doctor, when most men (and women) thought she was crazy for trying. I enjoyed this 1944 children's biography.
