https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/11995.Resistance_Rebellion_and_Death
Albert Camus is one of the great consciences of the 20th century, along with Adam Michnik of Poland, Vaclav Havel of Czechoslovakia, and Aleksander Solzhenitsyn of Russia.
The essays in Resistance, Rebellion and Death: Essays come from the 1940s and 1950s.
The subjects dealt with include Nazism, Hungary (1956), capital punishment, Algeria, and the moral responsibility of the writer.The more I read of Camus, the more I admire him -- as a writer, as a philosopher, and as a political thinker.
When he died in that 1960 car crash, we lost someone we badly needed in this era of moral ambiguity.
"...But I merely wanted to express that anguish I feel every day when faced with the decrease of liberal energies, the prostituting of words, the slandered victims, the smug justification of oppression, the insane admiration of force.
We see the intelligence seeking justifications for its fear, and finding them readily, for every cowardice has its own philosophy.
The welfare of the people in particular has always been the alibi of tyrants, and it provides the further advantage of giving the servants of tyranny a good conscience..."Favorite Quote: The world I live in is loathsome to me, but I feel one with the men who suffer in it.
I find it incredibly depressing that certain books are out of print and somewhat difficult to find.
This is one of those books whose relevance is not constrained to the time it was written in.
Change the names of the countries and people and it could have been written for today.
I genuinely believe everyone should read this who cares about the world around them and what's going on in it.It also does a fantastic job of fleshing out much of Camus' philosophies that are covered in his novels in a much more direct way since it takes the fictional aspect out of them.
My wife surprised me with this book this morning - a gift. Will be reading it soon.
When, for example, moral questions brought about by recent events (shootings, bombings, the disaster that is our climate—that is, the usual, tired suspects) impress themselves upon you, when the world presents itself in its starkest, least subtle terms, it can be tremendously helpful to be reminded that the search for subtlety and nuance (the most recent instances of which might be the innumerable pieces being printed by Eggers, Saunders, and many others on the humanity of a certain sect of racist conservatives, as though this were some great secret, as if a sin could belong to anything but a human) is often more akin to navel-gazing than truth-seeking.Still, I do not enjoy the essays in this book, and most days I find myself thinking Camus really was just naive in the common sense of the term.
* Man is that force which ultimately cancels all tyrants and gods.* And we, who call ourselves defenders of the spirit, know nevertheless that the spirit can die when the force crushing it is great enough.* I, on the contrary, chose justice in order to remain faithful to the world.
But I know that something in it has a meaning and that is man, because he is the only creature to insist on having one.* If someone takes away your bread, he suppresses your freedom at the same time.
But I know that something in it has a meaning and that is man, because he is the only creature to insist on having one: hence he must be saved if we want to save the idea we have of life.Despite the clamors and the violence, we tried to preserve in our hearts the memory of a happy sea, of a remembered hill, the smile of a beloved face.
There is no need of knowing whether, by pursuing justice, we shall manage to preserve liberty.
It is essential to know that without liberty, we shall achieve nothing and that we shall lose both future justice and ancient beauty.
I loved the book, especially Letters to a German Friend, Algeria, Reflections on the Guillotine.
But we can reduce the number of tortured.”“And forceful intellectuals announced to the worker that bread alone interested him rather than freedom, as if the worker didn’t know that his bread depends in part on his freedom.”“A free press can of course be good or bad, but, most certainly, without freedom it will never be anything but bad.”“To justify himself, each relies on the other’s crime.”“When historical truth is involved, the more anyone claims to possess it the more he lies.”“It is better for the intellectual not to talk all the time.
He must create if he can, first and foremost, especially if his creation does not sidestep the problems of his time.”“No great work has ever been based on hatred or contempt.”
It's a little remarkable how relevant some of these essays still are given their subject matter."If absolute truth belongs to anyone in this world, it certainly does not belong to the man or party that claims to possess it. When historical truth is involved, the more anyone claims to possess it the more he lies." p 165
A tour de force. One man, both artist and philosopher, tackling the great dilemmas and ideas of his time, with thought that is clean, bristling with energy and timeless. A superb collection of essays concerning topics from the French Resistance in WWII, racism and strife in French-Arab Algeria, the death penalty and the philosophy of art.
And unlike some his of continental peers, he endorses a fairly common-sense version of classical liberalism.
But freedom, as a matter of definition, entails access to food and other necessities.*Many of these essays focus on particular issues of the day—the Resistance, the colonization of Algeria, etc.
In the pieces on Algeria, Camus raises the generational dilemma of colonialism: to what extent are second (or third or fourth…) generation colonizers morally responsible for the actions of their forbearers?
Notably, he points out the consequentialist perils of capital punishment, given the risk of wrongful imprisonment, and the fact that would-be criminals are unlikely to be deterred by potential future punishments.
Camus chose twenty-three essays to comprise this collection a year before his death.
So, when they oppress and exploit, they are merely doing their job, and whoever blindly entrusts them with the care of freedom has no right to be surprised when she is immediately dishonored.""The artist constantly lives in such a state of ambiguity, incapable of negating the real and yet eternally bound to question it in its eternally unfinished aspects."The piece against capital punishment, "Reflections on the Guillotine" is strong.
My personal views supporting the death penalty wobbles when I read Camus' arguments.
I read this while visiting Ed Erickson and other friends at the University of Illinois in Champaign/Urbana while on Xmas break from Grinnell College--one of many visits to the U of I made possible by the fact that they were on a quarter system while we were on a semester one.The biggest impression made by this book was in terms of Camus' treatment of the Algerian independence movement (the most prominent topic in this collection) which was nearing success at the time of this book's publication and its author's death.
On the one hand, I had an almost kneejerk approval of any and all anti-colonialist movements at the time.
Camus is a philosopher and not a politician as he himself claims, and I add that even his knowledge of basic politics is questionable.
I admire Camus, but for politics around the World Wars, I prefer Orwell.
I read his essays on Art, which are somewhat interesting.
His other essays/articles on Algeria, Hungary and Paris are hard to read because I'm not aware of their history.
Also, since I do not really agree with his political ideas, I've giving up on this collection at this point.
Recommended to those looking to learn about Camus's political stance (that put him apart from Sartre
The sheer positivity of the writing is infectious. It is full of brilliant insight into totalitarianism and how it can, indeed must, be resisted. I was particularly impressed by his argument against capital punishment, especially the interesting observation that over the course of the 20th century a person is just as, if not more, likely to be killed by the State than another individual; it is therefore important to protect the liberty of everyone by reducing the role of the State as omniscient, omnipotent executioner wherever possible.
This is the book you read after watching Army of Shadows. Do you want to prolong that mood? I don't know. However, this is the mood you are in and so this is the book to read.You can pretty much guess how this book will be by the fact that it's Camus. The writing is excellent; the subject is complex, depressing, and difficult. Camus is always difficult, but he is worth it. The question is whether you can deal with him at that particular point in time.
Wonderfully illuminating set of essays which show very clearly the full meaning of Camus' life and thought. The Algerian and Hungarian political essays, which may appear dated at first glance, are only too relevant to the modern world with its thoughts on uprisings and Arab feeling. One or two essays are bit dim, but all the rest are still shining gems of thought and feeling and are very much worth reading.
Such clarity and humanity and beautifully expressed conviction... Here's what I'd like to say to George Bush: "There are means that cannot be excused. And I should like to be able to love my country and still love justice. I don't want just any greatness for it, particularly a greatness born of blood and falsehood. I want to keep it alive by keeping justice alive. (p. 5)"
This book gave me a unique perspective on America's upcoming War on Terror. Much of what the U.S. would inherit were problems originally sparked by British and French colonialism in Africa and the Middle East.
These essays varied wildly in quality, but they all made me think, so I'll settle on four stars.
The political writings of Camus range from his time in the French Resistance to the Algerian War (itself a personal struggle for Camus) and finally to the crushed revolt in Hungary and other discourses on the evils of totalitarianism.
It's not always flattering to Western Civilization but it provides the framework for an understanding of the drive to truth, justice, and liberty that used to motivate our political systems.I think anyone that aspires to enter the political arena or simply to understand what politics should be about should definitely read this collection.
It's particularly relevant given our time's delicate (and perhaps broken) balance between security and freedom.
The passages on Hungary seem particularly relevant given recent events in Ukraine and elsewhere in the former Soviet Union.
The essays that stand out in the collection are his later pieces, especially 'Reflections on the Guillotine' that is a strong and reasoned statement against capital punishment.
What makes this book a little difficult (I don't want to say tiresome, because the themes are serious and he is not a bad writer) is that it is collection of disparate pieces.
Some are editorials written in anonymity during World War II, laced with the rhetoric and polemic of war.
Others are pieces and exchanges related to the Algerian crisis.
Some are speeches that seem transcribed (or were they written like this?).
This book cleanly wraps up Camus’ conscious mind.
It is another collection of his essays about war, the death penalty and the job of an artist, written in his later years, before his death in 1960.
Camus’ writings are full of his irreducible duality that he called absurdity, but this book seems to clean up the lines allowing him to step farther into his own heart.
These essays are deeply compassionate.
I would also have to agree with Charles Moeller when he said of Camus, “Camus’ atheism is more a refusal of God than the impossibility of God.” This too is clearly seen in this book, all without verbal violence.
Five stars for 'Reflections on the Guillotine' and 'Create Dangerously' but there's a decent amount of this volume that seems pretty dated. His reflections on Algeria are depressingly relevant, his 'Letters to a German Friend' give a nice window into the Combat Camus but the book has some filler. Not enough to take away from the extraordinary quality of the two essays I mentioned first, but enough to not recommend reading the book cover-to-cover necessarily. Or at least, that is to say, doing that is a four-star rather than a five-star experience.
Much to be praised in this slim volume and though it collects essays that are over 50 years old each still speaks to current issues be it the section on Algeria or his Defense of Intelligence. I was particularly fond of The Artist And His Time and paused often and reread sections. A lovely and essential book from one of my favorite writers - but you should read The Plague if you only plan to read one...
The medium rating is because this book gets repetitive after a while, as it is a collection of his essays, articles and letters often harping on the same point (nihilism is bad, vive la resistance! etc.) but I liked the fact that reading the book felt like a behind the scenes look at Camus' life as it was positioned in a historical context.
This translation is great - it makes Camus sound like James Baldwin or something.Which I guess is fair. They were both writing for their lives.Although, I will say that the essays here are old fashioned and male-centered to a fault (and also by default, I'm sure). And I'm not at all sure that Camus' position on Algeria is a reasonable one.
This is a collection of articles Camus wrote between 1939-1958, concerning the siuation in French Algeria.
Karena realitas itu, tepat rasanya kalimat sarte sampai tahun terakhir ini: “kalau menjadi propaganda belaka atau hiburan semata, kasusastraan akan membiarkan manusia diserbu segala jenis penaklukan.”******Pertanyaanya: di dalam dunia yang semakin seragam ini, bagaimana kasusastraan dapat menempatkan diri, berkembang dan memberi sumbangsih untuk mewujudkan kebebasan kita?
Apabila dia menggunakan zamannya sebagai objek, dia menegaskan eksistensinya sendiri sebagai subjek, dan dengan demikian tidak menyerah kepada zaman.”….Cuma kenangan berdebu/kita memberi arti/atau diserahkan pada anak lahir sempat/karena itu jangan mengerdip/tatap dan penamu asah.”(Chairil Anwar: 1942) itulah sajak ajakan Chairil Anwar yang menjadi tonggak bagi semangat zaman modern kita.Sudah berakhir kiranya zaman dimana seniman hidup sendirian berpangku tangan tercerabut dari realitas generasi zamannya.
