https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/60149.The_Vanishing_Tower
But fortunately things get better by the end of “Book One” (Among other reasons, because the “Noose of Flesh” is such a supercool weapon).Book Two, “To Snare a Pale Prince” is more my style, a Fafhrd and the Gray Mouser sort of adventure in which Elric and Moonglum enter Nadsokor City of Beggars to retrieve Elric’s stolen magic ring from the Beggar King Urish.
Also as the Eternal Champion, one of the incarnations of the rebel soul who fights against Fate across overlapping worlds and warped timelines in the multiverse imagined by Michael Moorcock.The present volume, known initially as "The Sleeping Sorceress" is a collection of three novellas, most of them presenting Elric and his companion Moonglum on a personal vendetta, chasing after a powerful sorcerer named Theleb K'aarna.
By the end though, I got drawn back into the Moorcock multiverse, and I decided to give it an extra star, in the context of the larger Elric epic, rather than for the individual novellas included here.- - -  The Torment of the Last Lord  sends Elric and Moonglum to a northern kingdom, there to confront the armies of demons led by Theleb K'aarna.
I liked this somewhat less than a few of the previous books in the Elric Saga, but only because it had less of the nearly meta-multiple-worlds eternal hero/villain in it except for the last tale.
You know, a mysterious woman, albeit overpowered and in need of more overpowered help, almost throwing herself at evil (debatable) albino Elric after he avows he needs nothing, not even a reason to do whatever he wants.Eternal brooding nightmare of a man, serving chaos though not always being served BY chaos, always/never regretting, tossed by fate, used by his malicious soul-drinking sword, and in a never-ending search for wisdom.Good.
Perhaps that is why when they created us they made us imperfect."the story follows the same structure as the previous ones, there are three story arcs, Elric defends Kaneloon against Theleb K'aarna - the sorcerer against whom Elric seeks to gain revenge.
the second story follows Elric as he is captured by the Begger King of Nadsokor and forced to fight off The Burning God and afterwards defend the Caravan of Tanelorn and travel to the Eternal City with an old friend.
We read more of Elric's adventures, his grudge (which I could easily call petty) drives him and gives rise to his conflicts against Theleb K'aarna who is not even a notable antagonist.
I loved the idea all along that there was a city that exists in every world and lasts for all time.
I was glad it turned out to be more than just a myth.Not many fantasy novels use the somewhat sci-fi device of alternate realities, but Moorcock uses it very well.
In this book Elric actually travels again to another world where he meets with two of his alternate selves, previous future or parallel incarnations of himself, it's hard to tell.
This is a device that David Eddings could have used!Things are somewhat confusing at times when Elric refers to things that have happened in the past.
Further adventures of Elric and his sidekick Moonglum consist of three interconnecting stories which is a usual structure of Elric books (sometimes there are four of them). It starts with some unfinished business from the previous book, proceeds to the city of beggars and ends in the incarnations of the Eternal Champion (Elric, Corum, and Erikose) working together. Once again expect wild larger-than-life magic, meddling gods (they only meddle in the worst possible moments and never show up when they are really needed), and heroic or not-so-heroic acts by Elric. Four stars is the final rating for the book.
The oddity would be for Elric to rescue himself one time, and, importantly, the story is to an extent mostly about the contracts and their performance.
It's a story for lawyers who are closet fantasy nerds, who should recongize all of the nastiness of feudalism underlying the silly geektalk about sorcery and nuclear-swords.By the time of the second novella herein, Elric is "already a hero of several ballads by poets not over-talented" (77)--a fine bit of self-derogation by the author.The same novella reveals that Elric possesses Plot-Significant Jewellery, in the form of a magic ring.
My favorite book in the Elric series so far. This one has a great cast of supporting characters and companions, particularly Moonglum of Elwher. And there is this wonderful use of alliteration:From some of the tumble-down buildings came cacklings and titterings as the maimed caroused with the crippled and the degenerate and corrupted coupled with their crones.On to Book 5.
You always get the feeling that most of the shorter Eternal Champion novels were written on the run, kind of like Anthony Trollope sitting down for so many hours to write so many pages per day.
The Deus ex machina is always too much a part of this sort of Moorcock's sloppier slap-dash fantasy writing.
The best thing about this is the conjunction of three incarnations of the Eternal Champion, the fabled city of Tanelorn, and a shout-out for Dorian Hawkmoon.These Eternal Champion novellas are mostly reminiscent of sword and sorcery pulp writing with a little more edge to it.
Pareggio al novantesimo "La torre che svaniva" è il quarto tassello di saga dedicata all'eburneo alb

Elric mopes his way into a fourth book in pursuit of the sorcerer who escaped him in the third. At this point I'm pretty sure Elric's superpower is making things worse for himself. Probably comes from carting around that sword all the time. Worse than the One Ring, that thing.The Vanishing Tower has some good ideas and nice imagery, but I could reprint most of my critique of the last book and it'd be just as valid. At least Elric gets a vacation for a while.
I don't know what it is about Elric, but damn, I just love this character, and this world. I wouldn't call Moorcock the best writer on the planet, not by a long shot, and there's honestly times when this series feels like he's making it up as he goes along, but overall, it's just an honestly enjoyable reading experience, and this one, with Elric chasing Theleb K'aarna hither and yon, is no exception.
I was disappointed with book 3, but this one was as good as the first 2.
It also has perhaps the clearest character development of any Elric novel in the series so far.
It reads a lot like a few short stories tacked together and generally doesn't continue the events of the first novel in any meaningful way.
Like Sailor on the Seas of Fate however, The Weird of the White Wolf has significant issues with pacing.
The most significant action occurs in the first part, and the latter two thirds of the book feels more like appendices than adventures on the same level as the first.The Vanishing Tower is a much more refined effort than the two novels that preceded it.
The Weird Of The White Wolf saw Elric cast into despair and melancholy worse than any he had known, while the events in The Vanishing Tower find him examining relationships with his friends and companions, even as he wonders if there is any point in going on.Theleb K'aarna continues to be a threat and a thorn in Elric's side and Elric has another experience with fellow incarnations of the Eternal Champion (the first being in The Sailor On The Seas Of Fate).
I find Moorcock's Eternal Champion concept fascinating, even if I don't necessarily enjoy his books about the other champions.
Added to the iconic and unique character that is Elric, Moorcock's creation makes for excellent reading.
"Drab" might be a bit strong since the book has a lot of action, beautiful sorceresses, strong dude-bonds, and demonic redheads- but it all seems so passé!What drew me into the series in the first place, Elric's weakened condition and intellectual musings, has been all but absent in this entry.
So when the book should be full of gripping action sequences pitting Elric's wit against the forces of Evil, it only left me thinking, "oh great, another chance for Elric to bemoan his situation to Arioch and describe his over-sized, pulsating black sword.
The episodic quality of these stories seems to put some people off, and that is a matter of taste.
I enjoy the meandering quality of the books.
So many fantasy works have a tightly focused quest that it's refreshing to have a break from that, more like the wanderings of Conan.
I have never found the "transgressive" agenda of the books to be fully successful.
Moorcock has discussed these works as an anti-Tolkien experience, but they still seem deeply enmeshed inn the tropes of that style.
Still, in spite of my usual distaste for medieval fantasy, I find this series an intelligent and appealing exception.
70's pulpy goodness
So the woman talks to Elric in his dreams (because there was nobody around to tells us all that) and explains how the sorcerer he is looking is the one who put her to sleep (how convenient) and that he plans to conquer the entire world with a huge army he will bring from another dimension.
Man, not only his entire plan got ruined because he didn’t just kill Elric right away but he conveniently uses teleportation to prolong the chase.
What a fakin’ joke of a plot!Elric goes outside where one of his friends is attacked by monsters the villain summoned.
There's not much more to be said about the Elric Saga that I didn't say in the reviews for the earlier books.
It's more of the same good fun.
Elric's quest for revenge on a sorcerer takes him to all sorts of fascinating places, culminating with three incarnations of himself venturing into a castle ("The Vanishing Tower") that continually jumps from one plane of existence to another.
It turns out a "caretaker" has been murdering "guests" and robbing them, making it a treasure trove.And stuff like that.It hasn't gotten any better, but it hasn't gotten any worse, either.
The intro to the fifth book is quite intriguing, so I have high hopes for that one.
Elric défend le château des dieux de la Loi contre son ennemi personnel, infiltre la cour des mendiants dans un passage qui me rappelle furieusement Fafhrd et le souricier gris, et rejoint ensuite Corum et Ereckose pour combattre un puissant sorcier. Cette dernière histoire pourrait aujourd'hui se voir comme du fan-service :l'auteur montre à ses lecteurs leurs héros préférés et c'est cool, même si je dois avouer que c'est un peu inférieur aux histoires où Elric amène les jeunes royaumes seul ou avec Tristelune.
Michael Moorcock is arguably the best ever author.To me only AE van VogtJack Vanceand robert E Howard contend.Wow! What writing pwoers in elric corum and hawkmoon!Later books I think are ghostwritten the quality falls off.Very original and entertaining! Should be 3 movies series: one for elric, corum, hawkmoon....Haven't gotten to other early stuff....Like Glen cook his later stuff not as nice..but when hes on WEAAOOAA!
you could make 10 movies at least and whole video game franchises and MMPORGS based on the black company universe!!Goldmine of very orginial combinations of ass kicking fighting fantasy!other tips and leads:The Black Company (The Chronicles of the Black Company, #1)by Glen CookU 50x66Jackvanc3gmail.Com's reviewSep 11, 2016 · editit was amazingRead in January, 2004For those of you who are discovering awesome scifi not pushed by socialists, I salute you.Glen Cooks amazing The Silver Spike black company 3.5, was my intro, then I backfilled 1-3 after spike I think he had ghostwriter because it falls off bigtime.
Elric's vendetta against a sorcerer plays out in his book. He gets glimpses of the multiverse and his own fate in the process. Elric is like a transdescent sad sack. It's hard to turn away from in this epic trainwreck.
the series not only recovers from a mediocre third book but it really hits its stride here. i only wish it had been more fleshed out.
Espectacular, una prosa impresionante. Un imprescindible.
Another fine Elric adventure replete with imaginative monsters and locales.
I’m like, “Is there a story here?” Half the time it feels like a loosely padded outline that still waits for some hefty meat to be flung upon its bones.It doesn’t really matter what Elric faces in each of the books.
His stories certainly read more like tragedy than fantasy to me (I think Moorcock may have said something about this in an interview… hmmm).
True, the Elric stuff was first collected in the 70s (I think) – but most of it was written before that – late 60s, early 70s.Kids these days.
Elric, accompanied by Moonglum, heads off on a mission of revenge against Thelb K'aarna.Along the way he fights denizens of Chaos, a god and beings from another plane of existence that are immune to his magic.There's an appearance by other aspects of the Eternal Champion and the usual questioning of fate preventing Elric from living as he chooses.Good, old school swords and sorcery featuring everyone's favourite albino champion of Chaos and his soul stealing sword Stormbringer.
