https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/153795.Squire
The closest she ever gets is kissing Cleon.Point Four: Ilane, Kel's mother, buys her an anti-pregnancy charm.Which is actually inaccurate - Lady Ilane tells Kel that she might want one, but Kel's the one who makes the decision and purchases it.And I quote:"Kel wore the charm anyway, as a declaration that she could decide some things for herself."Clearly, my multiple crushes have made me immoral anyway, so maybe my opinion doesn't count for much, but I think that's one of the most empowering ideas of our time.
Buddy Reread 1/29/15-1/30/15 w/Monica (the other Tamora Pierce lover who thinks Alanna is still more legendary, hmmph!)Read this series. If you love fantasy and action and light but worthwhile romance with a strong protagonist and amazing worlds and believable characters and awesome friendships and epic pets and straight-out-of-a-movie battle sequences then read this series.5 STARS AND THAT'S HOW YOU DO IT.
Kel really is a wonderful heroine, and I loved getting to see her finally achieve her dream in this novel.Things about Squire: - I was very happy that the trial for Lalasa's attackers wasn't forgotten, and I really liked the way that played out.
- I was happy that Raoul talked with Kel in such a non-judgmental way about her relationship with Cleon and how that might affect her career.
Also, Raoul's awkwardness about talking to Kel about sex was adorable.
- Kel's discussion with her mother about sex is really interesting and gives a fuller picture of what Tortall's sexual mores are like.
Her only magic is hard work and a huge capacity for compassion.- This girl has got the strongest moral core I can think of, and she's so internally solid that, when faced with a dilemma, I sometimes think: What would Kel do?- I'm a pretty tiny person, but I have read so many girl heroes who are runty and svelte, and I love how Kel is tall and muscled.
It's facing all the other invisible things--like your hair or your period or people whispering that you're a slut--that boys don't have to think about because they're the neutral default.My junior year of college, I went from a male-dominated field of study to a field with a lot more females.
Oh these books, every time I read them it's like visiting a best friend.
I adore Kel today as much as I did when these books were first published; I will forever be grateful to Tamora Pierce for creating this fantastic heroine because "bless [her], [she is] real." Kel doesn't have the Gift or any wild magic to help her.
I reread these books ALL THE TIME because I need that.
I need to know that I can crawl out of the mud and be my own hero - no magic required.
I go back and forth about whether Protector of the Small or Trickster's Choice represent my favorite Tamora Pierce books, but this one's definitely my favorite within the Protector of the Small framework.The entire series revolves around Kel, beginning at age 10 when she's the first girl to commit to knight's training while actually admitting she's a girl.
Books 3 & 4, however, have a more YA (or traditional fantasy) feel, with Kel significantly older, taking on bigger responsibilities and concerns, and juggling a more mature plot and lengthier tome at the same time.If "girl training to be a knight" sounds like it might be up your alley, I can highly recommend this series.
So it's up to Kel to turn the conservatives' heads the other way by making her own statement: that girls can be knights, too.
It wasn't because there was a lot of the Tortallan land that got covered during the Great Progress and then-some (that also helped).
That was a supremely amazing moment.And gosh, with how the Scanrans ended their feud with Tortall in this book, I can only imagine what amazingness Kel's going to be on come the final book of the quartet.Okay, I can stop blathering on now.
he has such faith in kel and in the system, and i mean, seriously, people with stupid amounts of honor are such a turn-on for me, and hfurevhreu RAOUL.neal telling kel who his knight-master is = ♥.
i really want the story behind jon talking his daughter out of becoming a knight, mostly because i want to see alanna threaten to stab him in the throat.
except i think he would be a terrible king without thayet and alanna and raoul making sure he isn't a dickface all the time.)i love yuki and shinko a lot, and i wish there was more of them.
This review was from my snarky early teen years. I only kept it up to keep a trail for myself of how I've grown, figuratively and mentally.Since people see fit to stumble on it once in a while and leave long comments telling me how wrong/ignorant/prudish I am, I'm removing it.And I'm removing those comments as well. Because I don't have time for that.
At this point in the series, I'm not sure if there's any more apt of a word to describe Kel than to say she's 'steadfast.' She not only survives her (3-4?) years as a squire -- and she squires for no less of a knight than Raoul of Goldenlake, the commander of the King's Own, protectors of the realm -- she thrives.
Scanran raids grow ever more frequent during Kel's years as a squire until finally they are on the brink of all out war.
The appearance of a mysterious, strong, and new mechanical foe on the side of the Scanrans heralds things to come in book four.
This is my favourie in the series. I love this book!! Kel is now a squire to Lord Raoul, at first she is nervous but the two soon become very close. Kel gets better and better at fighting and leading people. Kel even starts a budding romance. I love the relationship her and Raoul have, I love reading about the realationships between a young person and their mentor! Plus I just love Raoul in general , he is such an awesome character! One of my favourite Tamora Pierce books yet and a favourite in general!
These books are so dear to me! This is only my first reread of POTS, but they absolutely make my heart swell with joy. So special. I already have an Alanna in my life (my two year old palomino mare) and I think a Kel is in my future. Reading Tamora Pierce make my fingers itch to write! Maybe I'll be prepared by NANOWRIMO.....
I loved seeing Raoul in this book with more of a role than secondary character.
I loved getting to know him and he was probably the best mentor for Kell.
At the same time, he did such a good job training and preparing Kell for a future as a knight.
I loved the field practice that Kell got as a squire.
Kell also gets another "pet" for a while in this book and I love her random ass collection of animals that protector her.
Kell learns about her some more womanly things in this and I ship her so hard with a certain someone.
Ahh Kel is so fierce, I love her. Raoul is A+.
Much like previous books in the series, the challenges begin immediately, as she has to prove her skills to her fellow warriors and start dealing with the nitty-gritty aspects of battles, starting with tracking a band of thieves and murderers across the countryside.
And the enemies have a special surprise that appears near the end of the book.Meanwhile, Kel has dealt with teenage crushes, the usual prejudices she has experienced ever since becoming a page, combat with bandits and some of the first few battles of the newly-begun war before she has to face her last test: a night spent in an ancient chamber that will force her to confront her greatest fears and worst nightmares, a night during which she is not allowed to speak a single word.Squire does an excellent job introducing new characters while retaining old favorites without making the cast seem overly crowded.
Kel relies not on magic, destiny, and luck, like the enjoyably far-fetched Song of the Lioness and Immortals quartets, but on determination, hard work, patience, and a strong moral compass.
To learn how to stand up for herself and others, and even if she doesn't make it, then at least she'll know more than when she started.I recently reread the series for the first time in several years, and it's amazing how different things stick out to me now, than when I first read the books as a pre-teen.
4.5 Stars!I really enjoyed Squire - definitely the most out of the first 3 books in this series.
Squire covers all four years of Keladry's time as a Squire (obviously) all the way up until her Knight test.
We see a lot of the world and of Keladry and the court as well during this book.
Things start to turn a bit darker toward the end of the book, and the battle before Kel's knight test is quite brutal.
Kel has completed the knights test with shining colors and has met Alanna, The Lioness, for the first time, also discovering who her benefactor has been these many years.
This is confirming my conviction that Kel would stand up to rereading.This is a delight.
Everything about it just works.I adore Raoul as knight master.
I love his relationship with Kel. Just as I love her relationship with the Yammani women, having contemporaries while being in one of these stories, I enjoy it.(view spoiler)[I am pleased that Joren finally gets his commeupance.
And the scenes between Kel and Wyldan are a delight.
(view spoiler)[The final scene between Kel and Alanna, YES.
I love that we get to see Kel learn.
In this novel Kel has to go through four years as a squire before she can become a knight.
In Squire Tamora Pierce as always hits the ball out of the park and makes a run for home base, passing wide mouthed catchers and players who are all stunned at her talent.In addition, Kel has a little romance in this novel with a young man whose name I won’t say so that I don’t spoil the surprise!
All I can say is again that Tamora pierce is a wonderfully talented author and her novels are never out of style or out of place.
The book opens with Kel stressing over having not been chosen as a squire, but that is quickly remedied when she is chosen by Lord Raoul and so she continues her adventures with the King’s Own. It always baffles me looking back that the griffin is only in Kel’s life for less than a book because the creature is definitely a presence.
(I don’t quite consider this a spoiler as it is depicted on the cover in her hands.) Obviously I love Pierce’s writing and story lines but I do have one quite fussy objection at the very end of this book.
The only problem is that no knight has picked her for their squire.
She is finally picked by Raoul Goldenlake, Commander of the Kings Own. As she accompanies Raoul on his adventures, she is accompanied by her old friends Jump, the dog, and Crown and her flock of sparrows.
She also gains a Griffin rescued from a centaur raid.Kelladry has matured even more in this book, and has even begun a romantic relationship, with Cleon.
You also get to see Neal and Owen develop, and get to see how Raoul has matured since the events of Alana’s books.
MY GIRL KEL
Raoul and the King’s Own are more closely connected with the people of Tortall, and it is their duty to protect them, a task that can involve both blood and steel, like fighting off bandits, - and more prosaic sweat and mud of hunting for local villages and pulling down buildings after earthquakes.Plus, there was that one side of Kel’s character development that I absolutely loved: her budding romance with (view spoiler)[Cleon (hide spoiler)].
Also, I certainly love the way (view spoiler)[Cleon (hide spoiler)] treats their relationship seriously and doesn’t push Kel into something she doesn’t wish.
Other friends include Seaver, Cleon of Kennan of the poetic address is her brother Innes' squire and the truth about his attraction to Kel is finally out in the open, Merric of Hollyrose, Faleron of Kin's Reach, Esmond of Nicoline, Prince Roald, Owen of Jesslaw, Iden of Vikison Lake, and Warric of Mandash.Raoul of Goldenlake and Malorie's Peak, knight and Knight Commander of the King's Own Guard likes how Kel handles herself and he appreciates her knowledge of the language and customs of the Yamani Court.
One thing I especially appreciated this time around is how well-connected he is, and how little that matters to him: his father is buddies with the king (obviously, he's the king's healer), and he and Alanna and the king all assure Neal that Kel is getting a great offer.
I love that little tidbit Raoul shares, about the cost of Kel's gifted weapons - but if Raven Armory is so expensive and people pass pieces down to their kids, how does the place stay in business?
I love that Raoul mentioned that wooden ring Wyldon had Kel practice on.
Kel is an amazing heroine and really came into her own in this book.
I have a theory about Tamora Pierce's quartets that the third book is my favorite because it's when the women transition from middle school age to young women.
Especially with the teaser we got in her Ordeal of the Chamber in this book.
It's going to be amazing, and I predict that Alanna is going to be more present now that she isn't banned from helping Kel any more.
Kel and Alanna together is going to be badass.Conclusion: Keep
This was amazing! There were some slow parts in the middle but Kel's character brought me through. She has got to be one of my favourite female protagonists!
The story arc gets better with each additional book! Good characters and lots of action!
She also manages to do this WITHOUT being a Mary Sue. Passive and goody-two shoes she is not."The world is imperfect, Kel. But you do more than your share to set things right.
No, don't answer - I dread to think what you might have the courage to say...The problem is that monarchs who wish to live until their grandchildren are born do not hand down any law they like." 4.
It's not fair, but I think you already know the world isn't." 5.
And Kel herself knows this.
Being away from Cleon for so long, she forgot the things about herself that made him like her.
It's not too grim and dark, it's funny, it's cute, I FEEL LIKE IM DYING EVERY SECOND...I shouldn't say it isn't "grim and dark", since stuff happens and people die and there's little skirmishes here and there, and oh, there is the problem with the Scanrans.
They're still kind of cute together though, and I love how everyone knows they're involved - that scene when Neal, Merric and Owen make up excuses had me dying with laughter.Speaking of Neal...SOMEONE HOLD ME CAUSE I LITERALLY CANT HANDLE THE FEELS *cries for all eternity* He wears her shukusen as he's knighted.
