https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/8492319-lover-unleashed
Lover Unleashed is the tenth book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood universe and it’s about Payne and Manny finding love.
At the end though: the love story between Payne and Manny was the best part of the book.
The three mini story lines are about Qhuinn & Blay, the Band of Bastards and about the next Fallen Angels book Jose de la Cruz and his new partner.
- The Butch story line: yes I love Butch, but I can’t get over the fact what a missed chance this was for Ward to write more about our favorite ex-human with his chipped tooth (which mysteriously turned into a capped tooth in this book…).
4 Was this Payne's book or V's? Stars  SpoilersFirst Read 2014Reread 4/7/2017It finally happened, he thought as he burrowed under his shirt and took hold of his heavy cross. All his life he'd wondered why he'd never fallen in love, and now he knew: He'd been waiting for this moment, this woman, this time. The female is mine, he thought.-MannyLover Unleashed the 9th book in the BDB series was a good read but I was a little confused as to whose book it was. I mean was this Payne and Manny's book o
Because even though this is suppose to be about Payne and Manny, V and Jane's drama took up most of this book.
I feel like he was unloyal to his Shellan Jane every time he thought about Butch in a sexual way or like in this book he was thinking back to his past Dom sex life and it seemed like he missed it.
I also didn't like the fact that Payne and Manny took a backseat in this book.
on any level."-MannyOverall I enjoyed this book but would have liked more Manny/ Payne and less Jane/V.
This book is just all kinds of amazing!**Fear thee not, spoilers are hidden**There are so many things to love about Lover Unleashed, the 9th installment of the Black Dagger Brotherhood series.
(hide spoiler)]Qhuinn and Blay spoiler -  (view spoiler)[ While we didn’t get a lot of page time here, and virtually zero interaction between the two of them, I’m thrilled at what we did get.
(hide spoiler)]Layla spoiler -  (view spoiler)[ Wow… I’m so glad that she’s getting it together.
I can't help but think the WARDen is testing the sexuality waters for future books, and especially for Qhuinn and Blay.
"You're the one who's Payne's."No hesitation on that. No hesitation on his reply either: "Yeah. I am."  This was such a romantic book, I must say I loved Manny and Payne's story <3 What made it even better was a side-story concerning Vishous! Fantastic :))The new bad guys are irritating as hell and I had the same urge to skip them as I do the lessers :(But overall, I loved this one <3 The storyThis one picks up right after Lover Mine.Payne is at the Brotherhood compound, injured and frus
Fantastic :))The new bad guys are irritating as hell and I had the same urge to skip them as I do the lessers :(But overall, I loved this one <3 The storyThis one picks up right after Lover Mine.Payne is at the Brotherhood compound, injured and frustrated, while everyone is in shock by learning she is Vishous' sister.Jane takes off to find someone who can heal Payne, her former boss and friend, Manuel Manello.Manuel is shocked and angry to find out Jane is alive, but he agrees to go with her and try to help the injured person.The moment he sees Payne, he knows she's special, and that she's meant to be his.He operates on her, and they delete his memory after it's done, which causes Manny massive headaches and the poor guy ends up thinking he's losing his mind.Payne's state isn't improving, and she doesn't want to be immobile for the rest of her life, so Vishous decides to do something to give her the will to live.He brings her back her healer.
Lover Unleashed is Payne and Manny’s book and although I would have liked to see more romance between the two, I found that I really enjoyed both of them!
In fact, having not been completely taken away by the romance in  Lover Unbound, I felt that this book really solidified the fact that V and Jane were meant to be together.
This guy deserves a HEA the most!!I loved this book and even though it wasn’t my favourite of the series, I can still say that I loved to read about Manny and Payne!
Tras una segunda relectura, me sigue gustando tanto como la primera vez.Increíblemente sorprendida! De verdad, no me lo esperaba. Es más, cada vez que veía este libro, antes de empezar con su lectura, no podía hacer otra cosa que suspirar; convencida de que nada bueno me esperaba. Pero vaya sorpresa que me he llevado, decir que me ha encantado es quedarme corta.
“With that, he pushed his way out...and as the door eased shut, she realized I love you could indeed be said without actually uttering the phrase. Actions did mean more than words.”  To be honest, I really don't know why I gave this book 5 stars as for my distaste for the start. Payne is not a likable heroine for me, she's just too masculine and indepedent that I didn't know how Ward could find a man to match her with. And finally she fould Manny, yes it's him Dr. Manuel Manello, the Handsome o
To be honest, I really don't know why I gave this book 5 stars as for my distaste for the start.
Payne is not a likable heroine for me, she's just too masculine and indepedent that I didn't know how Ward could find a man to match her with.
And finally she fould Manny, yes it's him Dr. Manuel Manello, the Handsome one who had a crush on Dr.Jane since V's book.
“I came to you, Jane.
And I didn't want to sleep without you."
V and Jane's story is very interesting and I was glad that we see them again in this book.https://goo.gl/d2V2rd
WOW!  Lover Unleashed  is a fantastic installment to the Black Dagger Brotherhood, and I especially loved the romance this time! Here’s a checklist rundown of some of my favorite highpoints:*More romance between main H/H? – Check!Manny and Payne were amazing characters, and I absolutely loved, loved, luvvved them together! They were such a sweet, sexy couple with a strong emotional connection and explosive chemistry. In fact, their sensual, evocative romance was possibly my favorite since Lover
In fact, their sensual, evocative romance was possibly my favorite since Lover Eternal and Lover Awakened.(view spoiler)[Marvin Gaye’s Sexual Healing...HOT DAYUM!
(hide spoiler)]*Resolution to the Jane/Vishous/Butch relationship quandary?
– Check!(view spoiler)[The struggles between V and Jane were heartbreaking, and I really questioned (and hated) where the Warden was taking things with them there for a bit.
(hide spoiler)]There were a few things that could have been better.(view spoiler)[*The finally!
love scene between Manny and Payne was much too brief and not nearly as detailed or hot as I was hoping for, especially after so much buildup.*I wanted a mating ceremony between V/Jane and Manny/Payne.
*sob* major lack of screen time with these two even though Qhuinn really needs to find his own Dr. Dhrew stat.The reveal about Butch and Manny and their relationship has pissed me off because Ward said she'd never go there with them back when V's book came out.
(V and Butch will never look at a spoon the same way again)So-so book that was more of a disappointment even though I give mad props for Ward because she is a very skilled author.I will continue to read for the Qhuay HEA that is going to take years to get to.
There is also no way this one can be read as a stand alone – you need V’s backstory throughout the entire series to get anything from this book.I was definitely disappointed with the ending of V’s book Lover Unbound, when Jane was turned into a ghost.
But I’m glad she does what she does.And I have to say, I actually liked Jane in this book – crazy, right?
It looks like the new conflict might be moving away from the lessors and more towards a fight with Xcor for the King.I suppose I can’t leave Payne and Manny out.
Even though our main love story here is not as dominant as in past books, I have no complaints as Ward manages to include and give us moments with each and every member of the Brotherhood mansion in one way or another.
I loved revisiting V and through him, hearing from the Cop again as well as getting to know Jane better-who has at last stopped feeling like a ghost (I may forgive Ward yet for killing her) And in the afterward, those quiet moments spent between Butch and V well … in his words, “I have no words.
Hi Five to Jane for being awesome!This book was a good chance to see deeper into the complicated world of Vishous, son of the Bloodletter.
With Vishous and Jane and Butch, I know that there is so much hope there.
And now, Butch and Vishous have a bond with Manny, very much about ‘brotherhood.’ In fact, this book shows that bonds of blood and friendship are what life is all about, because no man is an island.
It was good to see that this bond was renewed and strengthened in this book.Qhuinn/Blay:I like Qhuinn, but he annoys the crap out of me with his slutty ways.
Sometimes I wonder why this series is so addictive, but then I think hey, I enjoy it so why worry.
And I know I am enjoying it when I speed through a 512 page book in a day.In this book, episode number nine, we spend lots of time with Payne and her new mate, but there are as usual a number of sub story lines which move the overall plot forward.
Quinn and Blay make no progress towards their future, happy or otherwise, though I believe they are being saved for a future book too.And that is why the books are addictive of course.
Once these characters meet we are taken on their journey of finding love and all the obstacles that they face as a vampire falling in love with a human.The story also follows the rest of the brotherhood, we get more insight into the relationship of Vishous and Doctor Jane, the dark side of making a relationship work under the strain of an abused past and we are also updated on the other brothers, So all in all a jam packed, incredible book number nine.
I will have to break this one down cus there is just so much to freaking write, so freaking much.So we met good old Payne in the last book Lover Mine, she is the sister of my main man Vishous, the daughter of the Bloodletter and the mother of the vampire race, The Scribe Virgin aka *Bitch Face*.
So they pull the mind erase trick, but eventually they will need him again and feelings between the two will become deeper.I really loved Manny; he’s like my Butch.
I wish Manny and Payne got more page time, I don’t feel like I know them too well.
Even though Manny's head tells him that a relationship between a human and a vampire has nowhere to go, he finds it hard to tear himself away from Payne.
This story wasn't all Manny and Payne--there are a few subplots: * Vishous and Jane's relationship is in trouble--these two just aren't communicating like they should.
* Annnnnd...there's a new band of vampire soldier 'brothers' in town (or should I say 'band of bastards') led by their disfigured leader (Xcor)-- who had a relationship with V and Payne's twisted father (the Bloodletter)-- and it looks like they'll be trying to challenge the authority of Wrath in future books.
Uh, perhaps I don't recall, but I thought that the only one who could see into the future was V.
Hell, I was really disappointed with Phury's book and this one is just a notch BELOW it for me.
Is it that the antagonist in this series will now be a new batch of non-Brotherhood warriors and not so much the Omega's lessers?
For some reason, I thought we'd know more about him in this book.
*sigh*Lover Unleashed gets a C- from me (also known as a "Meh") and that's really disappointing because I adore this series as a whole and expected so much more.
Always a pleasure to see strong females in the BDB series...  "Love can conquer everything but reality. Which will win every stinking time."   Let me start with the following warning: It is impossible to review any book in the Black Dagger Brotherhood Series without mentioning spoilers for all the books which came before it. With that in mind, you might not want to read this review if you haven't read the first eight books in the series...The BDB Series focuses on a new couple with each book, ye
The plethora of POVs can be a bit daunting at times, but you get used to it once you get this far in the series.The unofficial breakdown of plot:40% Payne & Manny 40% Vishous & Jane (who had their own spotlight 4 books ago)8% Lead up of Blay and Qhuinn (Who get their own story in book 11)8% The band of Bastards (Who are a brand new addition to the series)4% Caldwell Cops Jose de la Cruz and his new partner Thomas DelVecchioPayneBlooded sister of the Brother Vishous, son of The Bloodletter
Payne and Dr. Manuel Manello  It finally happened, he thought as he burrowed under his shirt and took hold of his heavy cross. All his life he’d wondered why he’d never fallen in love, and now he knew: He’d been waiting for this moment, this woman, this time.The female is mine, he thought.And even though that made no sense at all, the conviction was so strong, he couldn’t question it.“Are you the healer?” she said in a low voice that stopped his heart. “Are you . . . here for me?”Her words were
All his life he’d wondered why he’d never fallen in love, and now he knew: He’d been waiting for this moment, this woman, this time.The female is mine, he thought.And even though that made no sense at all, the conviction was so strong, he couldn’t question it.“Are you the healer?” she said in a low voice that stopped his heart.
When Manny and Payne meet, there are sparks everywhere and this is something that Vishous (Payne’s twin brother who didn’t know that he had a twin sister until then) does not like it.
I like seeing through his eyes the confusion and the wonder of vampires and the Brotherhood life.
I've always like Payne since she was first introduced in the series.
However as much as I like seeing her flip side, I also wanted more of her badassery (which only appeared at the very end).I like Manny and Payne together and their storyline was engaging.
Xcor is a new character introduced in this book.
I also felt deprived of Murdher which is one of the reasons I wanted to read this book thinking he'd make an appearance.
LOVED AND MISSED MY BROTHERHOOD, FULL REVIEW TO COME!!!Reading book 9 on the BDB series ...Reading as part of ShhLYT(F)BR week: PRN Books!Choose your own book to read!https://goo.gl/p7MdtO
5 Stars!!!!! (Duh! like I could give it any less!) I will join the club and say that I am completely OBSESSED with these books and all things BDB! If you haven’t read this series, seriously, get to it! On to the review!!!This is Manny and Payne’s story. We met Manny several books ago. He is the chief of surgery and friends with Jane. Then there is Payne. Payne is Vishous’ long lost twin sister he never knew about. An unlikely pair, but they work nonetheless.  When we last saw Payne in book #8, s
On to the review!!!This is Manny and Payne’s story.
When we last saw Payne in book #8, she was brought over from the other side and introduced to her brother Vishous.
Payne is a true warrior at heart and she doesn’t want to live like that.
So Vishous and Jane bring in the only person they know can possibly help her.
Manny has had many women, but he has never felt like this.
Let me just say that I loved Manny and Payne’s story.
There was so much Vishous (and Jane) in this story!
For those who haven't read any books from this series keep in mind these vampires always have insta love.
One more book before we FINALLY get their love story.I wasn't sure if I'd like  Manny and Payne's love story since Manny wasn't one of the brothers but instead a human.
Dark Lover(#1) The King (#12) {Wrath & Beth}♥Beth♥: is (view spoiler)[Darius (hide spoiler)] daughter.
She has (view spoiler)[leukemia (hide spoiler)].Zsadist: has a twin, Phury.
Lover Unbound (#5) {Vishous & Jane}♥Jane♥: human surgeon who becomes the brotherhood's private surgeon.Phury: Zsadist's twin brother and loyal to his brother.
I am so thankful she has been, because I absolutely loved this one!All of the BDB books have side stories and this is something that has driven me a little crazy in the past, but I loved the side stories in this one.
Now let’s focus on our main story – Manny and Payne.
Manny…love, love, love…he was sweet, caring and protective of Payne.
Payne, V’s twin sister, was strong, loving, independent and I loved her too!
One of my favorite BDB couples for sure!On a side note…only 1 more book until I finally get to the epic story of Qhuinn and Blay!
If I recall correctly, I understood from comments written and/or stated by JR that she wanted to correct how she left Lover Unbound where V felt more for Butch than Jane, hence why people didn’t have closure on the V/Butch scenario.Don’t get me wrong, JR Ward is an amazing writer and has me sucked into her stories it so much that it was torture waiting until the next book was in my hands, devouring every word.
I'm really hoping we get to hear all about their mating scene in the next book as I will feel totally cheated if we don't!Qhuinn *sigh* Qhuinn, what to do with him, I loved the conversation with him and Layla, Qhuinn just needs someone but I also felt extremely sorry for Layla, I know people don't like her but I DO and I hope she gets the HEA I think she deserves.
This was more than just being alive. This was to live.  Lover Unleashed is the only book in the series I read only twice. Sadly now, for the second read, I was even more bored than I was for the first time.Jane and Vishous’s storyline captivated me again: witnessing their struggles after their ‘happily ever after’, and seeing them finally finding some peace by the help and the unfaltering friendship of Butch.Qhuinn and Blay's story goes on, and it's heartbreaking: the tension between them, the
Sadly now, for the second read, I was even more bored than I was for the first time.Jane and Vishous’s storyline captivated me again: witnessing their struggles after their ‘happily ever after’, and seeing them finally finding some peace by the help and the unfaltering friendship of Butch.Qhuinn and Blay's story goes on, and it's heartbreaking: the tension between them, their sadness, and their resignation are saddening.In Payne and Manny’s story there is not enough potential that would be enough for a 500-page-long book.
The sidelines of Vishous-Butch-Jane, and Qhuinn and Blay are captivating, and essential regarding the series.
Maybe I’m wrong, but who knows.Spaz: I totally agree that Jose and Butch are going to reunite somehow, that story ain’t over.
There’s nooo tellinggg what the Bloodletter told Xcore over his lifetime to make him hate Wrath… I expect a definite “keeep reeeading” from JRW on that one.Things Spaz is pondering:The Prologue mentions that the 7 Warriors fight “slayers, humans, animals and WOLFEN.” WTF are the wolfen??
Aahhh!Pixie: I full on admit to calling Throe, Toe for the whole damn book.
Seriously, people. First off, BDB books are addicting. However, this one completely missed the mark for me. It really had me feeling that every relationship is recycled. Vamp bonds with female (in this case, female vamp to male), growling ensues, sex sex sex sex feelings, hard cocks springing out of pants, and finally the lovey dovey conclusion. SNOOZE. Secondly, I will continue the series like the fucking addict I am. 2 Ninja-Bunnehs-Dying-Of-Boredom
I'm here for you."Reintroducing Dr. Manny Manello“You are perfect for a female.""Not where I come from.""Then they're using the wrong standard.” “Why ever are you here?“ she whispered, putting her hands to his face.“Because I love you.”In so many ways, that explained nothing … and told her everything she needed to know.” be still my hopeless romantic heart ❤...
We met the good Doctor in Vishous and Janes book ....
Real fucking nice!"Vishous ?""Yeah?""Do you wish that I had not come herein?""What the hell are you talking about?
Of course I want you with me."shine bright Vishous.
