https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/321552.The_Agony_and_the_Ecstasy
***4.5 stars out of 5***”To some people stone was dead; ‘hard as stone,’ ‘stone cold,’ they said. To him, as he once again ran his fingers along its contours, it was the most alive substance in the world, rhythmic, responsive, tractable: warm, resilient, colorful, vibrant. He was in love with stone.” Michelangelo portrait by VolterraMichelangelo di Lodovico Buonarroti Simoni was born in Florence on March 6th, 1475. It was a fortuitous time to be born. He was coming of age just as the Renaissance
Stone wanted to be sure that the portrait he carved of Michelangelo by writing this book was based on as much hard data as he could find.
Irving also, to add more authenticity, lived in Italy for several years as he was working on this novel so that he could see, taste, and feel the world that made Michelangelo.
Unlike many powerful people that Michelangelo was going to be forced to work with, Lorenzo understood that all that was required of him was to stay out of the young artist’s way.
کاوالیوری نیز، به استادش وفادار، و بر بالین مرگ او نیز حضور داشت، و بر میکل آنژ نفوذ داشت، از سال 1534 میلادی، عشق به مذهب، تمام وجود میکل آنژ را، فرا گرفت.
Oh good lord.
Here's the young Michelangelo carving marble for the first time: "He had removed the outer shell.
He's fucking the marble?
It was not merely an act of love, it was the act of love: the mating of his own inner patterns to the inherent forms of the marble; an insemination in which he planted seed, created the living work of art."  Does anybody have a cigarette?***Two weeks later: Finally finished.
Four stars -- as promised, it's full of agony, it's full of ecstasy.
But the writing is just so overwrought that I removed a star.
The book made Michelangelo and his times really come alive for me.
I think most of this information is probably true as the book was extremely well researched with lots of primary sources, such as Michelangelo's 400+ letters.The book also gets inside his head as an artist as he designs and executes all of his work, especially his most beloved marble sculptures.
Or to move the finished sculptures to their designated locations.The dense writing and length (760 pages) made it a slog for me to get through - but an exciting slog and I find myself thinking a lot about it.
Ο Irving Stone δεν εστιάζει σχεδόν καθόλου στους ομοφυλοφιλικούς έρωτες του καλλιτέχνη, στην ουσία τους παραβλέπει σε βαθμό που να στερείται ένα σημαντικότατο ερμηνευτικό κλειδί για την κατανόηση του έργου του.
Παρέμεινε υπερδραστήριος και δημιουργικός ως το τέλος της ζωής του, αλλά ακριβώς αυτή η υπεραπασχόληση και η εμμονή του να εργάζεται πρωτίστως ο ίδιος επάνω στα έργα του, αφήνοντας ελάχιστα στην επιμέλεια των βοηθών του, ήταν εξαιρετικά χρονοβόρα και είχε ως αποτέλεσμα να αφήσει πίσω του πολλά ημιτελή έργα, τα οποία ωστόσο, ακόμα κι έτσι έχουν κάτι το μεγαλειώδες (πχ βλέπε Pietà Rondanini το τελευταίο έργο που δούλευε μέχρι έξι ημέρες πριν τον θάνατό του).
But I was even more inspired by the incredible challenges he overcame throughout all of his 90 years of life.
Here is a quote from his death bed:"Life has been good.
I have loved marble, yes, and paint too.
I have loved architecture, and poetry too.
I have loved my family and my friends.
I have loved God, the forms of the earth and the heavens, and people too.
I have loved life to the full, and now I love death as its natural termination.
PS: If you are going to read it, make a chart with four columns-Family, Medici, Friends, Enemies.
And did so every time he was forced away from his one true passion: working the marble.My reading of the book this time was enriched by keeping my laptop nearby and referring to it frequently.
I would stop reading many times just to examine the pictures of Michelangelo's works.
He wasn't even a tall, thin man like Charlton Heston, who played the role in the movie of this book.
Michelangelo was only five feet four inches tall, and when working obsessively (the only way he knew how) he weighed less than 100 pounds of pure muscle and will power by the time he was finished.
I learned a lot and this book will push me on to reading more about Italy in the 1500s, more about the Medici, more about the Borgia family, more about the Popes, more about Charles V,the Holy Roman Emperor.
Through page 392: I am just wondering, how does Stone know so much about Michelangelo's thoughts behind each sculpture.
Through page 246 of 776: This book does an excellent job of teaching me history about Florence at the end of the 1400s, about the Medici family and about the religious conflicts taking place.
This is a book I got in Florence after having admired the works of Michelangelo. A wonderful reading experience - I found myself reading slower and slower towards the end, because I did not want to finish reading the book! Every time I opened it and started reading, it was like entering a secret gate to 16th century Italy.
However, I found myself pulling up images of Michelangelo's works of art and staring at them while reading about the process of their creation and the emotional impact on the artist as well as the emotional depth he reached into to create them.
Whether historical records forced his hand or Stone just needed to reassert Michelangelo's heterosexuality, we ended up with a random one-time prostitute in the middle of an asexual (although art-based homoerotic) time period in his life.
Audiobook read by Arthur Morey.Stone’s epic historical novel tells the life story of Michelangelo.
Stone did extensive research, living in Italy for several years, and using many of Michelangelo’s letters and documents found in various archives.
He really brings the artist (and his works) to life.
Stone brings all these elements into the novelized biography.Additionally, the novel includes much of the politics of the times, from the Medicis in Florence to the various Popes in Rome, it’s a fascinating history of the era.
His life requires an epic story.
That being said, the novel is incredibly long in order to cover all of Michelangelo’s eighty-eight years, and his life’s opus.
Michelangelo was definitely passionate and driven when it came to his art.
He finished the Pietà when he was just twenty-five years old!
He felt driven by God to create.
I can’t recommend this book unless if you’re eager to learn about Michelangelo, that period of time in history, or if you just love art history.
When it comes to loving books, length is never an issue.
In fact, if I love a book, I don’t want it to end.
This book just didn’t draw me in the way that I had hoped.
Yes. Did I love it?
Even so, Stone's bibliography is primarily made up of books published in the nineteenth century, which seems to me to be a direct refusal of any real understanding of Michelangelo, ignoring important biographical information revealed about Michelangelo during the first half of the twentieth century (such as the location of his childhood home) and instead selecting certain outdated facts which create a more easily understood narrative.Yet the purposeful ignorance behind this book is more of a disservice to Michelangelo than other contemporary pop-art history books.
It's a brilliant & thoroughly researched account of a multi-talented artist who suffered and worked till extremities. Michelangelo's life and his artwork is truly inspiring. He did everything what he believed he could not or should I say he was made to do it by pontiffs. Nonetheless, he excelled in everything.Too many Italian names while reading becomes a little annoying but then I got used to it gradually. Highly recommended.
My reading list for 1961 started with this fictional biography of Michelangelo.
It was the #1 bestseller that year, demonstrating that readers found a huge fat book about a renaissance artist worthy of their time and dollars in the early part of such a momentous decade.The whole novel is a moving testament to art, artists, and the creative life.
I have believed for a long time that no amount of oppression can kill the urge to create, but is is always an uplift to read about real examples of that belief.
I recommend this book to anyone who walks a creative path in life.
I liked the book.
I found 3/4 of this book really great and captivating.
the last fourth was still ok, but in comparison to the first part, which was more detailed, was a bit dissapointing.
It is of course very complicated to cover almost 90 years in only 800 pages (this old romanian edition) but Irving Stone still did a good job.
With this book in mind, i am sure next time when I visit Florence and Rom I will look at all these marvels with a different eye.
So I liked it, but I found the book about Van Gogh way more emotional.
And, to the same extent, I liked the constant striving to split up from the existence of this demiurge the exact detail from the legend itself.And yet, however impressive is in its proportions the list of titles of books dedicated to the life and creation work of the great Florentine artist, despite researches and although numerous papers have been brought out to light in the nearly five centuries that separate us from his death, we cannot help looking with astonishment at the personality of the one who is gloriously identified with the era of passion and of striving to the truth, which is the Renaissance.The legend perhaps took birth on that day of September 19, 1510, when Pope Julius II commanded to take down the scaffolding from the Sistine Chapel.
That I didn't read it before I visited Rome....
Thanks to the wonders of the internet (and Wikipedia!!), after each chapter I would look up the photos of each one of Michelangelo's creations to help me picture them, as each one of them is painstakingly described in this novel.
It helped me to bring this wonderful novel even more to life.If a plan to visit Italy is in the works (even if it's not...) I highly recommend this biographical novel about a genius that may never be seen again!
It was a bit difficult to keep track of so many names, especially since many were similar over the course of his life...(which Lorenzo are we talking about here?)...But the book is based on fact, so the names are what they are.
But they were an integral part of the story, as they dictated so many of Michelangelo's decisions and the entire course of his life.
It really deserves 5, but the fact that it took me a year indicates to me that it could've been a bit better yet, from my personal perspective.
He was blessed with a long life (eighty-eight years) and was able to outlive many of his detractors.He living style was mostly that of a mendicant, very spare and plane.
Many of his contemporaries who indulged extravagantly didn’t live so long.The book goes out of its way to portray Lorenzo de’ Medici “Il Magnifico” as a near perfect ruler (unofficially behind the scenes) of Florence.
(The forces of destruction referred to are all the obstacles he faced in life.)“Il Magnifico would be happy: for me, the forces of destruction never overcame creativity”The following quotation is by the young Michaelangelo speaking to the other painting apprentices of his longing to be a sculptor instead of a painter.
Možda bih nakon "Agonije i ekstaze" mogla reći da mi je omiljeni žanr, ako izuzmemo klasike, definitivno romansirana biografija.
Nisam neki poznavalac umetnosti, pa mi upravo knjige poput ove pružaju mogućnost da spojim lepo i korisno - uživam u čitanju, istovremeno učeći o umetnosti.
Istina je da sam odugovlačila sa njom (ne zato što nije lagano štivo, naprotiv), ali sam zaista uživala, stapala se sa pričom, vizualizirala predele o kojima je pisano, gradove, trgove, ulice...
(My wife loved this book).
I found the insights into the Medici family and into the culture of Italy at that time to be very interesting.
But I found the details of Michelangolo's life to be a bit overworked.
I don't think Mr. Stone really had to give insight for the reader into EVERY significant work of his life.
After a while we come to understand the emotional process that he went through with each work without having to experience it over and over.I was also rather disturbed by the author's awkward attempts at masking Michelangelo's obvious homosexuality.
The only Irving Stone story I've re-read, and re-read. Get a re-read urge just pasting the copied Kirkus"KIRKUS REVIEWWhile previous works on Michelangelo either never fulfilled the picture of the man or were beyond the means of the average reader, this extraordinary work is fully rewarding on every count. Against the surging many-threaded setting of the Renaissance, Michelangelo emerges with his own many-sided genius. In addition, Stone writes out of intimate personal acquaintance with techniques of the artistic triumphs of Michelangelo."
I loved this book. I think all artists should read it.
اگر برای هنر به جهان آمده ام و از کودکیشکاری بوده ام که زیبایی سوزان مرا ببلعد آن خاتون را که به خدمتش زاده شدم ملامت میکنم
Early on Stone describes Michelangelo's experience with sculpting as if it were a sexual act.
I did think the language was beautiful, and even when it was a little difficult to keep up with the sections which explained sculpting and frescoing – the tool making, choosing the stone, prepping the plaster, etc.
Even Michelangelo, who Stone describes as someone with deep reverence for God, was unable to hold back when faced with temptation.
I don’t know if Michelangelo changed in his later years, but I was unsympathetic toward him after awhile.
The church was completely corrupt.
I’m not saying that I thought the book ought to have been a criticism of Michelangelo.
A very detailed and thoroughly researched biographical novel of Michelangelo. Portrays his struggles and thoughts during the creation of each of his works. Paints a vivid picture of the life and politics during Italian renaissance.My only problem with this novel was that there were a ridiculous number of characters with similar sounding Italian names, and I soon lost track of who’s who except for some main ones.
I learned SO MUCH about Michelangelo. I wouldn't say the reading experience was always fun, but I do feel smarter!
Sjajno! Hvala piscu sto je uložio toliki trud proučavajući Michelangelov zivot i na taj nacin nam omogućio da bolje shvatimo i jos vise uživamo u njegovim božanstvenim djelima
When I started this book I couldn't wait for it to end.
Not to find out the ending, but to be finished with the book.
The first 100 pages I was so totally bored I really wanted to stop reading it, but it was my book club's selection so I decided to power through.
I felt like I was reading a textbook.
I don't think I can recommend this book to anyone because I feel that you can get the facts in better ways and the storytelling of the characters wasn't compelling enough to warrant 750 pages.
