https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/44053.Odes_to_Common_Things
Naming the simple things of the natural world, Neruda’s odes address everything, for everyone.
With his painstakingly unadorned language, Neruda aims to capture all facets of everyday life within his odes, in a manner not unlike that of the realist photographer.
Be his subject alive or inanimate, an atom or a hummingbird, Neruda considers it with care from many angles, wanting to neither embellish nor simplify it.
Consisting of many swift, short lines, the odes encourage the reader, whoever they might be, to become lost for a moment in contemplating common subjects that they normally take for granted.
Through Neruda's voice we're reminded that a cat, a spoon, a table, an onion, a flower, are all worthy of poems written just for them.
The illustrations are either of two different kinds of spoons, or two views of a certain kind of flower, heading the Spanish version of the poem and the English translation.
See for example the title facing page, in which spoons are clustered, bowls up, in a juice glass, looking just like themselves but simultaneously like a bouquet of flowers.From Ode to a Table...
I found myself needing to read poetry for a Read Harder challenge, something I have not done since high school.
I decided on Pablo Neruda as I had come across some of his love poetry and also read something of his history when I visited Valparaiso many years ago.
This edition of  Odes to Common Things  seemed a great starting point to ease myself into his poetry.
It is a great collection, enhanced with lovely pencil sketches of the everyday items that are risen to objects of desire by these verses.
My favourite was the story of the Artichoke - I thought it was ingenious.
....Ode to the Artichoke
If you ever wanted to translate Flemish still life painting into words, read this book.
For the Read Harder Challenge, a collection of poetry in translation about a topic other than love.
'Cebolla,luminosa redoma,pétalo a pátalose formó tu hermosura,escamas de cristal te acrecentarony en
The great Neruda proves that no object is worthless in the eyes of art. A cat, a salt shaker, a chair, all have poetic resonance and emotional power in the hands of a great artist. This particular edition has the benefit of the original language on the left hand pages, which makes for fun comparisons of words. A quick and rewarding book of generally light verse.
But after flipping through and reading some of the poetry, noting that the book was a beautifully bound hardcover, had illustrations, showcased the original Spanish next to the English translation and was by Pablo Neruda, I felt honor bound to buy this book—for the sake of Austin's economy!Really, the best way I can describe how awesome this book of poetry is is by relating it to everyday life.After leaving Book People, different friend and I headed off to eat and had a rather cyclical conversation on an infinite topic that went something like this:Me: I think tomatoes are great!Friend: Me too!
Read odes to conger chowder, wine, tomatoes, maize, tuna, chestnut, artichoke, lemon, salt...sooo good! Couldn't believe such mundane things could be described so beautifully
The illustrator, Ferris Cook, selected the poems for this volume, and I think it made for a great theme.
It will be interesting to re-read this collection occasionally to see if I can pinpoint the differences I perceived between the translations I liked and the ones I didn't.I would highly recommend this collection to anybody who wants (or has been assigned) to read some poetry but is in the mood for something a little different from the usual.
These were simple and delightful, and made me want to write.
(The fact that one of the poems is about French fries made me so happy.) I think I missed it because I'm an American and hunger and poverty aren't things I'm forced to reckon with on a daily basis, so of course lines that talk about ending world hunger don't necessarily resonate with me as well as they might- or should.
When I googled Neruda, I also found that he was famously Communist, which explains the food analogies, as well as his propensity for seeing value in the ordinary and the various war references that are sprinkled throughout the poems (although he was also very involved in the Spanish Civil War and lived through both world wars, so those things would have influenced him too).
Poems to be read aloud and if possible to innocent children. Pleasing as can be. Who can forget the gorgeous woolen socks of Maru Mori? good things are doublygoodwhen you're talking about a pair of woolsocksin the dead of winter.Or the box of tea...?box of tea,like myown heartyou arrived bearingstories,thrills,eyesthat had heldfabulous petals in their gazeand also, yes,thatlost scentof tea, of jasmine and of dreams,that scent of wandering spring.
Leave it to Neruda to point out the extraordinary aspects of "ordinary" things (bread, socks, onion, and so on). Just goes to show that miracles are always present in the mundane; we just need to see them through the eyes of a poet. For those of us lacking such vision, good thing there is Neruda.
Uno de los mejores libros que he leído. Te convertiste en una referencia para la creación poética, y por supuesto en uno de mis poetas preferidos, Neruda. Gracias por tanta belleza. Te releo con placer
I prefer his love poems, but only Pablo Neruda could make a poem about bread sexy.
Ordinary stuff made beautiful with love and luminous words. Today, "Scissors" and "Cat" are my favourites. Tomorrow it might be "Chair" and "Yellow Flowers".
Симпатично.(*aсоциации: Далчев, Pessoa)Любимата ми, "Оde to hope":Oceanic dawnat the centerof my life,waves like grapes,the sky's solitude,you fill meand floodthe complete sea,the undiminished sky,tempoand space,sea foam's whitebattalions,the orange earth,the sun'sfiery waistin agony,so manygifts and talents,birds soaring into their dreams,and the sea, the sea,suspendedaroma,chorus of rich, resonant salt,and meanwhile,we men,touch the water,struggling,and hoping,we touch the sea,hoping.And the waves tell the firm coast:'Everything will be fulfilled.' ***"Ay, alma mía, hermoso es el planeta..." (view spoiler)[ ***(...) Shall we measurelifein meters or kilometersor months?How far since you were born?How longmust you wanderuntillike all meninstead of walking on its surfacewe rest below the earth?To the man, to the womanwho utilized theirenergies, goodness, strength,anger, love, tenderness,to those who trulyaliveflowered,and in their sensuality matured,let us not applythe measureof a timethat may besomething else, a mineralmantle, a solarbird, a flower,something, maybe,but not a measure.Time, metalor bird, longpetiolate flower,stretchthroughman's life,shower himwith blossomsand withbrightwateror with hidden sun.("Ode to age")***I will stitch your eyelids shut,I will sew your shroud,sadness, and bury your rodent bonesbeneath the springtime of an apple tree.

This is a beautiful book.
Neruda's poems are presented in Spanish and English with black and white illustrations that fit the feel of the book.
Neruda writes about everyday things - dogs, cats, carnations, violets, socks, scissors, etc - with such wit and insight that you won't look at these common things the same way after reading it.I have read it several times.
While I do not usually like poems, I loved this book.
There are two other books in the series that I am adding to my want to read list.Lovely book.
Highly recommended, especially if you have never read Pablo Neruda.
Beautiful little songs of praise to everyday objects -- chair, a cat, a bar of soap, a cluster of violets. This edition also has lovely ink drawings of the subjects. From the ode to French fries (a topic that deserves much more poetic praise): "French/fries/go/into the pan/like the morning swan's/snowy/feathers/and emerge/half-golden from the olive's/crackling amber."
This is a book I kept on my kitchen counter for years, a volume to open while waiting for water to boil or for tea to steep. It is a celebration of the mundane, a way of dressing the everyday in parade attire and celebrating that which seems designed to be taken for granted. I adore this principle and recommend this book to anyone who loves to find magic in the everyday.
This is my favorite poetry book of all time, and the left hand page is in English and the right hand page is in Spanish. Both sides are equally lovely, and evoke different feelings about common, everyday objects like chairs and spoons.
I recommend this poems in particular: •Ode to the atom •Ode to the copper•Ode to the fire •Ode to Guatemala•Ode to Leningrado
I looked for a copy of this with the translation and original side by side for years and when I finally found it in person (and in stock) it lived up to every expectation.
Neruda proves that poetry is even in the most trivial object of feeling. He is the Joycean Daedalus.
No todas las odas me gustaron. Pero las que me gustaron realmente llegaron hondo.
So lovely. 'Ode to the Bed' was the most profound for me. "Ode to the Cat" is perfection!
4.5 - Beautiful book, beautiful poems- not the best translations
My introduction to Neruda was Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair; I loved that book of poems so much that I would give it as a gift whenever I was invited to a wedding.
I would read it to my wife on amorous nights.
I tried to memorize several of the poems; I even read them in Spanish without worrying about the translation.
Now I have to make space on the table next to my reading chair for Odes to Common Things.
I cannot think of a better way to close out my day than with a poem by Neruda
