https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/2643345-the-nine-unknown
Unfortunately, this may be the poorest installment in Mundy's Jimgrim series.
It suggests a couple of potentially thrilling ideas, namely the use of wealth to destroy capitalism and the potential use of gold as a source of atomic energy, that foreshadow the depth and ingenuity that would later make Om, the Secret of Ahbor Valley one of Mundy's most intriguing works.
But these ideas are badly presented and never really integral to the plot.
The plot fails to accelerate until the last few chapters, and by that time it's being driven by yet another member of a secret society, who serves as a deus ex machina.
There is plenty to think about the world's most secret wise society and their nine sacred books--a black project started by Emperor Ashoka around 260 BC to collate and guard advanced knowledge gathered from around the world over the years.
THis Talbot story however focuses only on book- 4- that supposingly dealt with metallurgy and the secret process of producing gold and silver in colossal amounts, to be used as an economic weapon during ancient times to destroy economic infra of the enemy.
A bunch of loosely contrived characters in a very poor plot, on a quest to get hold of the gold making formula.
An enjoyable, if slow moving, romp through an early secret society myth that grew into the 9 Unknown Men myth of India that was little more than the creative mind of Talbot Mundy having its way. For those who enjoy adventure and late imperial fiction, this will be an enjoyable read. Rating: 4 out of 5 Stars
I felt obliged to read this one. There's a bunch of ridiculous conspiracy theories that have their roots in this second rate adventure story. It was a fairly dense read, and I found it only mildly entertaining. I wrote a more in-depth article on this book and the theories it inspired on my blog if you're interested.
It is a thin volume, but it was a hard going read. It was not as riveting as I had hoped.
