https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/121410.Adrift
He was a delivery skipper sailing boats from one place to another and he very much wanted to do a single-handed across the Atlantic.
I've sailed the Atlantic too.
But there were such terrible storms for days, that we couldn't even get close to either the Archipelago or Fernado de Norona.
Large pods of dolphins them used to come and play around the boat, especially at night.I'd like to sail the Pacific.
40+ days at sea without seeing land.
Should be required reading for anyone going out to sea in any type vessel. This book being a true account it moves along at the pace it simply must, and the adventure within takes us to the very limits of human survival.
It all begins with entering a race........and once his beloved SOLO is lost, what if's and survival is the name of the game for Steven Callahan's 1982 life-raft ADRIFT across half the Atlantic Ocean.Often wet, cold or overheated, always starving thirsty or scared, with sores and ulcers plaguing him, and never-ending attacks by the bumping dorados, Callahan continues his daily routines amidst unbelievably harsh conditions for 76 long days.While at times a bit too detailed and descriptive (for me) still a great true-life adventure story.
After 76 days at sea, living off very little water and what fish he could catch, he was saved and taken to the hospital.
The worse leak was when he had speared a fish and in the fight to kill it, his spear cut a hole in the bottom layer of his raft, and it deflated, causing the raft to lower itself in the water and flop around.
I also thought of the time my friend Cathy and I took a sailboat ride in San Francisco Bay and how we got wet with cold salty water that kept hitting us whenever the boat leaned a certain way, and how horrible that felt.
Although it sounds weird, I loved living with the author on his sordid journey.
I could almost feel the saltwater chafing his skin...feel the sharks poking at the bottom of the raft...smell the rotting fish as they hung from his makeshift drying racks - I loved every moment (this I admit sitting in the comfort of my own home, far from any suffering...although Wisconsin IS pretty chilly this time of year...)This author brings you right along with him and you'll often wonder if you could have survived the journey...or would you have succumbed to the wrath of the sea.
One of my favorite books of all time.
It's a short but really, really intense story that I recommend reading to all the fans of survival books like Diary of a Shipwrecked or Life of Pi.Spanish version:Descubrí el libro A la Deriva durante mi proceso de documentación para la escritura de la novela que estaba escribiendo en ese momento: Luces en el Mar. La verdad que al leer la sinopsis y descubrir que la historia de Steven Callahan sucedió de verdad aún me entraron más ganas de leerlo.
A la Deriva es un libro genial para todos aquellos lectores que les gusten las historias de supervivencia, donde el mar es a la vez protagonista y antagonista y sobre todo las aventuras, aventuras en mayúsculas.
My son had to read a non-fiction informative book for school and this is what he picked with my assistance.
When he has to read for school, I read the book too to try and encourage his reading habits and make it more enjoyable for him because he's at that age where the only thing he wants to read is sports headlines, video game stats and the titles of YouTube videos.
I kept thinking we couldn't have picked a worse book to try and get him interested in reading for pleasure.
There's SO much information dumped throughout the book that it was really hard to remember it all and try to pinpoint what might be on the test, even for me.
Well, Callahan is not the most reliable narrator.
Then there is Callahan's ego, which is big enough to capsize his ship even without a rogue wave.
The too careful minimization of his errors, and his tendency towards inflated descriptions of his own epic heroism, creativity, and genius also loom larger the farther I got from the end of the book.Overall this book is a selfish indulgence on my part; a dysfunctional relationship that ended suddenly and afterwards it's just so obvious how you were used, and you hate how you let yourself get exploited like that, but you think about the sex all the time and you miss it sometimes....I would read this again, but hate myself for it.
Those looking for a story of redemption won't be disappointed either as he notes this experience as making him forever appreciative of the fact that "to be well fed, painless and in the company of friends and loved ones are privileges too few enjoy in this often brutal world".Perhaps most impressive is his refusal to thump his chest and pride himself on coming out on top in the end.
He is able to speak of the beauty of the uncaring sea and the deep connection to the fish that provide his only food and company without getting on my nerves (which is quite a feat!).Can't recommend this book more.
The entire book is set in a small life raft where the author struggles to catch fish, capture water, plug holes and stay alive for 76 days. It's monotonous stuff that is somehow riveting. And it made me realize that I have nothin' to complain about....ever.
Adrift is about one man's solitary journey, both internal and external, on the perilous ledge between life and death.
Tonto!" (Fool) The rest of the journey is fraught with danger, starting from when the Napoleon Solo capsizes and sinks, forcing Callahan to abandon ship in a rubber lifeboat.Anyone battling demons of their own will find solace in Callahan's struggle to survive, which is a metaphor for all mens' struggles to survive an often hostile world with often insurmountable odds.
"I imagine two stone-faced poker players throwing chips into a pile.
The pile of chips now stands as tall as a man and as big around as a raft.
I heard the author interviewed in connection with his consulting with Ang Lee for the movie Life of Pi. This is the story of his 76 days lost at sea, with close to nothing to sustain him but his knowledge and endurance.
His experience reinforces his sense of being a tiny morsel in the universe not its center.
Callahan gratefully waits as they pull in fish that might have been the ones accompanying him across the sea.
I'd recommend this book to anyone interested in thinking about existence, the universe, and human limits.
I suppose if you love the sea and boats, you'd like it too.
I picked up this book when my family rented a beach place for vacation and I was looking for something to read.
I'd finished my own book already and it was the only one that grabbed my attention on the owners' shelf.Let me say that I did not expect to like this book.
Reading a book like this on the beach was quite an experience, and it's a riveting survival story.
Stories like this, so raw, so real, so TRUE, are what biographical/memoir-type books are all about.
Maybe it's not for everyone, but it's certainly worth a look.
After his sailboat sinks in the Atlantic, Callahan is left to survive on a small life raft.
Eek!) Of course it removes a layer of suspense knowing that he survived (obviously, since he wrote the book), but there was still excellent tension throughout, as he was tossed about in the unforgiving ocean.
While it doesn't have the journalistic edge/drive that you might find in one of Krakauer's books, I found Adrift to be quite well-written.
It is as much about his struggle to stay focused and keep himself strong as it is about his constant battle with sea water, uncooperative equipment, and his failing raft.
Despite some of the negative reviews, I found this book bordering on poetic. For being a survival story it has some pretty amazing writing... great example for teaching double voice (Callahan speaks to the various imaginary crew members inside his head)... great recommend for YA teen boy... I started it this morning and couldn't put it down.
Someone told me about this book back in the 1980s and I knew that I had to read it.Steven Callahan, an accomplished sailor, decided to build his own sailboat after he and his wife divorced.
Once built, he sailed it to England where he intended to enter a boat race that takes place every year.
The race is from England to the Caribbean.He is forced to drop out of the race because his boat is damaged in a storm.
When it is repaired, he decides to follow the race course to the Caribbean on his own.
Wow! Powerful read! The human spirit is truly amazing in its resilience. I am blown away by all that he managed to do to stay alive. Having that nautical knowledge really came in handy, most of us would not make it a week without all the skills he had. I was especially interested in his navigation notes and other random tidbits of information, it brought back some of the good old Navy days.
Really haunting and unforgettable survival story, I assumed that it might get boring but it stayed interesting the entire way through.
I bought this by accident after seeing a preview for the new movie Adrift that’s coming out in summer 2018.
He throw what supplies he can into the lifeboat and spends the next 76 days adrift.
It’s terrifying just to consider it for a single day!
Callahan writes beautifully about his time on “rubber ducky iii” and describes well his physical issues but more importantly his mental state and how he feels about what’s happening to him and his relationship to the ocean and the fish he observes alongside his raft.
Not a book for everyone, certainly, but time well spent for me.
Id wanted to read this book for ages for a mixture of reasons. I like a decent survival story but mainly I am fascinated by the open ocean - the vast, scary scale of it. The idea of falling off a boat and being lost in the middle of that endless blue desert, with all thats in it and above it, is a thought which fascinates, terrifies and amuses me. So I wanted to read this book to find out what Steven Callahan made of it - after all, he did it. An experienced sailor, Callahans small, well-equippe
I´d wanted to read this book for ages for a mixture of reasons.
The idea of falling off a boat and being lost in the middle of that endless blue desert, with all that´s in it and above it, is a thought which fascinates, terrifies and amuses me.
So I wanted to read this book to find out what Steven Callahan made of it - after all, he did it.
All this is fascinating enough but it is the book´s style which, in the end, I didn´t enjoy.
And calling the book "76 days lost at sea" and then making a point of saying "Day 1", "Day 43" etc, doesn´t help with the reading pleasure.
I agree it is pretty good, however, I would have liked to read more about what happened after he was rescued.
The best part about this book is how well Callahan was able to detail his daily challenges and explain how he was able to keep his equipment working.
My favorite part of this book is the fish that were his constant companions, his food and the spirits that helped keep him alive.
Callahan was very educated and prepared for his survival.
For the subject matter, this book was pretty good, unfortunately, it isn’t going to make my list of favorites.
And I know that he put serious effort into the descriptions complete with diagrams, etc., for those of us who are not familiar with sailing, and that he isn't a writer by trade.
In the beginning I was bored to be frank as I knew he was going to be rescued, obviously, and I just found it too difficult to really connect to his situation and the details he was providing no matter how much he tried to describe it all.
I found some of the fishing descriptions intriguing, but I was about ready for his rescue super early on (as I imagine he was too!).
A gripping read from a very brave & courageous man who is not afraid to admit that most of the time he was indeed just that ..
very afraid!
And who wouldn't be given the situation ...
i think that this would appeal more to fellow sailor's & other seafarer's as the technical jargon was lost on me ..
i just wanted to know what happend.
Well written & hugely entertaining ..
i especially liked the line ' a view of Heaven from a seat in Hell' ...
this against the odd's story of keeping mind & body together is a winner.
A very good read.
Adrift was probably the book that my dad referenced the most often, so I was familiar with Callahan's story long before I ever read this book.If you did not guess from the title, Adrift is the true story of a man who, after his boat sinks, spends seventy-six days adrift in a tiny life raft.
I won't give away the details, but the all of the things that Callahan went through to survive were incredible.Having at least a passing knowledge of nautical terms is helpful when reading this book but not necessary.
Ditto the illustrations—he might not be an artist by trade, but those illustrations were fantastic, sometimes just giving a little bit of a hint of the vastness of the ocean against the diminutive Rubber Ducky III and sometimes showing, for example, just how the raft was set up.More importantly, Callahan knows, and knew, the ocean.
(Knowledge that offers distinctly less hope: that the raft is only guaranteed for forty days...) Yes, there was a lot of luck involved, but a great deal of that was luck that Callahan had enabled through knowledge.Gripping story in the hands of a competent writer.
Adrift: 76 Days Lost At Sea, is an “edge of your seat” memoir about author and sailor, Steven Callahans astounding ordeal of voyaging through the dangers of the ocean alone for more than a month.
With his emotional descriptions and amazing stories of his hardships, you will experience this astounding journey through the pages of the book.Adrift starts off slow, retelling of the events that led to his dangerous voyage, but after Steven set sails this book will have you on a roller coaster of horror, heroism, and survival.
This book of survival was akin to the book "Up In Thin Air" and "The Perfect Storm".
It can be a very fast read but I choose to read it and then deliberate on the experiences of Steve Callahan, in this well written true story (memoir).
Callahan was a very good presenter of his experiences and this speak volumes for his writing skills.
I did find him to be too self centered (even concerning God) but then, I am guessing survival against all odds requires this quality of personality.
The average person, I believe would have surrendered to the many obstacles he faced.
was this the predecessor work for Life of Pi?
and Callahan, moreover, was a philosophy major in university, just as the esteemed Yann Martel, that fraudster.
(ha)1987 New York Times best-seller sensation, Callahan's work does characterize time and philosophy and 76 days passes by in the sweep of a full book.
beats that Andean plane crash story.
hmm it's an interesting genre, survival stories...http://www.goodreads.com/list/show/32...this is a good book.
congrats to Callahan for surviving and let's all keep hush, o anybody who knows sailors or has sailed, what kind of sailor Callahan is hahahahahah
Seventy-Six Days Lost at Sea was an ok book.
Seventy-Six Days Lost at Sea takes place in the on the Pacific Ocean.
He is brave because he gets lost at sea but he doesn't panic, he stays calm and waits to be rescued.
One day Chris gets pushed out to sea on a sail boat with his friend.
A couple days latter another ship drove out of the harbor and he shot a flare up but they didn't see it because it was light out.
Chris was getting very hungry to so he caught some fish below the sail boat and ate them.
After his boat capsizes, Steve Callahan is stranded at sea for seventy-six days, after two days reading this book, i feel i suffered more.Usually i enjoy survival stories, man v mother nature and man overcoming the odds to survive, not with Mr Callahan's writing, everything is there to make this a gripping story but it's just dull.I'm sure given the choice Steve Callahan wouldn't want to suffer the same fate again and given the choice i would rather be stranded than read this a second time.
