https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/10414941-catherine-the-great
The Empress Elizabeth, who was Peter the Great’s daughter (now, that is a man who truly deserves “the Great” after his name!), changed my name to Ekaterina when she converted me into the Russian Orthodox religion.
Many Romanov royals, including my future husband Tsar Peter III, are actually Germans, specifically Prussians.
I was all of 14 years old when Elizabeth summoned Mama and me to Russia to marry Peter III.
Peter was a sickly man-child who would rather play with his toy soldiers on our marital bed than with me.
Firstly, to answer your most pressing question regarding Catherine the Great, the Empress of Russia from 1762 to 1796: No, she did not die having sex with a horse.Moreover, if you have an abiding interest in the origins of this rumor, Robert K.
Massie gives life to them all in a book that balances the literal hugeness of Russia – a stage 1/8 the size of Earth – with an intimate, warts-and-all portrayal of her leaders.
Catherine reigned until 1796 in a manner best described as the personification of Montesquieu’s “benevolent despot.” She liked to compare herself to Peter the Great, and she worked to further modernize/Europeanize Russia.
Like probably every woman of note in history, open about and unashamed of her sexuality, Catherine the Great is primarily remembered as a power- and man-hungry, salacious, perverted woman.
It is an honest, frank, compassionate account of this superbly intelligent and deeply dedicated to her adoptive country woman's life.As expected from a biography of a monarch, this work is pretty heavy on historical details.
As for the lovers, as a woman of high intellect and high power, Catherine was never able to find a man emotionally, politically and intellectually equal to her.
Massie's effective arguments and thorough research are a treat for the curious reader, even if little is known about this woman before beginning the journey.Born into a somewhat noble (though by no means powerful) family, Sophia Augusta Fredericka of Anhalt-Zerbst was the first-born and yet shunned by her parents.
Massie is also a biographer to which I will surely return, as his interest in Russia is one that will prove very telling in these trying political times.Kudos, Mr. Massie for bringing Sophia Augusta Fredericka of Anhalt-Zerbst to life for me.
Catherine the Great: Portrait of a Woman by Robert K Massie is the extraordinary story of an obscure young German princess who travelled to Russia at the tender age of fourteen and rose to become one of the most powerful, and captivating women in history.I had previously read Massie's Nicholas and Alexandra which was wonderful and I was really interested in reading about Catherine the Great.Massie did extensive research on this book.
It is Catherine’s detailed and excellent memoirs and letters from which Massie quotes liberally which make it possible for him to write such a wonderful detailed portrait of this Woman and her time in history.
This one was clearly a win for me as a biography of Catherine the Great.
What I really enjoyed was how he took the time and trouble to show how Catherine carried forward the reforms begun by Peter the Great, and was a monarch who overcame a great deal of adversity to overcome the obstacles of not being Russian, being a woman, and a usurper to boot -- most biographies focus on her time before becoming empress and/or her lovers -- while Massie does look closely at several of them, he also wisely discards the more wild rumours and looks at what Catherine actually did.
One reason alone to read this book is to laugh at crazy Peter.
Although you do learn details of Catherine's childhood, and it certainly is essential to know these details to understand who she became as an adult, politics must be the central theme of this book.
Yes, I think it was in 1753 that the palace where Elizabeth and Peter and Catherine were residing burned.
In her plans, of course, Catherine, Peter, and their future child were of supreme importance.
You will come to understand Elizabeth and Sophia and her future husband Grand Duke Peter Ulrich.
Granted I didn’t know that story going into this book but it’s a very interesting look at a girl getting out from under her family and turning into a strong woman.Then Catherine becomes Empress and the book takes a huge nose-dive.
Instead of continuing the solid chronological narrative, the author suddenly decides to tackle broad topics related to Catherine’s reign – her legal code book, her various lovers, Poland, philosophy, art etc.
Not the smoothest read for sure and while I was more interesting in the historical events, I never felt like I got a solid look at Catherine’s full reign as Empress.Before you know it, Catherine is an old woman.
Whew.
What a densely loaded book about a fascinating woman.
If you have an interest in Catherine the Great, this is most definitely a biography to add to your repertoire.
you know you are getting your book's worth of material.
My interest is still piqued in Russian history and this woman.
The time spent explaining the concept of "serfs", how Russians considered wealth, and the eventual emancipation of the serfs was fascinating.
Very closely coinciding with our own Emancipation Proclamation.
I am still fairly ignorant to Russian history but I know this book combated that ignorance.
Catherine was fourteen when she was brought to Russia to marry the nephew of the Empress Elizabeth, who was unmarried and, despite numerous affairs throughout her reign, didn't have a child of her own to be her heir.
Catherine didn't see her newborn son for an entire week after giving birth to him, and after that she was barely allowed to see him.So it's understandable that as soon as Elizabeth died and Peter got the throne, Catherine put up with that for about five minutes, and then it was coup d'etat o'clock.
Apart from painting a memorable and respectable portrait of the dramatic life of Catherine the Great, the book also accounts succinctly for the labyrinth of European/Eurasian politics at play in the 18th century, and depicts Russia’s participation in the Seven Years’ War, its carving up of Poland, its two major Wars with Turkey and its putting down the Pugachev Rebellion.As a child German princess, Catherine II was inspired by her Huguenot Frenchwoman tutor to develop a “permanent love of the French language, with all its possibilities for logic, subtlety, wit and liveliness in writing and conversation”.
Massie cheapens his subject a bit too much for my taste in places.On the upside...1) He did paint a portrait of Catherine with humanity and dimension.2) The portrayal of Potemkin and his achievements was quite interesting, along with the exceptional tour that was put on to view it all.3) Some, though not heavy, coverage was given to the foreign policy issues of the day.
He was a ruler of the Principality of Anhalt-Dornburg.Her mother, Joanna Elisabeth of Holstein-Gottorp was a princess of the House of Holstein-Gottorp and later the Princess of Anhalt-Zerbst.By being born in Stettin - a small principality called Anhalt-Zebst, she started out as a German princess.Since Sophia was not the favorite child of her parents, she saw marriage as a way to escape from her faith.The Russian came up in Sophia’s life one he mother accepted an invitation to St. Petersburg from the Empress Elizabeth who was looking for a suitable wife for her heir, Grand Duke Peter, later called as Petter II.Catherine was persecuted by Empress Elizabeth for several years since she wanted an heir for the Russian throne quite soon.
Robert K.
Massie does a convincing effort to tell us Catherine the great, or the tale of how a small German princess became one of the greatest monarch during the Enlightenment era.Born to a low noble German family, Catherine's life got turned upside down when she was betrothed to Paul I, the adopted son of Empress Elizabeth of Russia.
However, although on the surface being considered as benevolent, in many cases she upheld noble privilege, increased serfdom and continued autocratic rule.It is this contradiction, that Massie delivers in great deal in his book.
The author did not limit his book to Catherine’s story nor to her family and the Russian imperial line but included many important figures from the Russian political world and the wider European courts and culture (for example wonderful cameos of Voltaire and Diderot).
Every page makes clear how much research went into this book, and if this is so well-written I can only imagine how incredible his Pulitzer-winning book on Peter the Great is.
Before this book, the majority of what I knew of Russian history included Nicholas II's family (I've been obsessed with them since I first saw Anastasia as a child), the Bolsheviks, serfdom, and names like Peter the Great, Catherine the Great, and Ivan the Terrible.
Having finished this, I can happily say that I know much more about Catherine's life and reign than I did after my European History class in high school.
My one complaint is that the book is so intensely focused on Catherine and the Russian court.
You do not get the European big picture with Frederick the Great and the Seven Years War, Maria Theresa of Austria and all the major events.
I would also recommend you read these books about the same period to get a better feel for the wider world Catherine the Great faced:
I wish Robert Massie had written this book before my trip to Russia in 2008.
We all were amazed that Catherine, German, not in line for the crown, a woman, with the turmoil of the times, managed to rule for over 30 years and as a whole was well liked.
I think if I had it to do over again, I’d read Massie’s Pulitzer Prize winning Peter the Great first as I’d like to understand how Peter’s style of running his country meshed with Catherine’s philosophies.
Massie helped me realize that I could greatly enjoy lengthy biographies when I first read it back in December 2011.
I'm so happy I have read this in depth biography because Catherine the Great, the woman, is someone I learned a lot from.
Thank goodness I don't have to try and help rule the country like she did because that would be terrifying; honestly, I admire her so much for all she accomplished and learned.Whether you as a reader are interested in famous rulers, Russian history, powerful women, or just a role model that shows to always try for better I think you would enjoy this book.
The latter two rose to become autocrat through seizing power from weaker rulers (Elizabeth took the throne from Empress Anna, and Catherine took it from her husband Peter III).
Catherine's early years in Russia are full of isolation and loneliness, and she sought small moments of comfort and intimacy with several lovers, a few of whom fathered her children, and one of whom was instrumental in the eventual coup d'etat against her universally loathed husband.As Empress, Catherine was forced to realise that all of the Enlightenment philosophies she believed in on paper were impossible to implement in real-life Russia.
His writing is so engaging that I couldn't put this book down!Catherine's story is remarkable: She was an obscure German princess (of a tiny principality!) who rose to become the Empress of Russia (no Emperor by the way, her husband ruled for six months and then was dead, the crown was all hers!).
Catherine was a great patron of the arts and built parks, buildings, schools.What I most want to share is that Catherine was a voracious and avid reader who loved to learn-- Diderot and Voltaire were among her favorites and friends, and I believe it was this quality and her curiosity and belief in progress that enabled her to have such an Enlightened monarchy and Western style regime in Orthodox Russia.
Even the lovers for which she was famed were sometimes given opportunities to serve their country in admirable ways (and when you read about her marriage, you understand the lovers).I knew very little about Russian history, but by the time I finished this biography I felt I had a reasonable grasp of the period, aided by Massie's habit of reminding the reader who a character is in a brief sentence, every time we encounter him or her after an absence.
He paints a picture of a naïve you girl who grows into one of the most powerful women of the last half of the 18th century.In addition to the personal, Mr. Massie looks at the politics of Catherine’s reign - her wars with the Ottoman Empire, the rivalry with Prussia and Frederick the Great, the alliance with Austria.
ON the domestic policy arena, he covers her attempts to reform and modernize the laws of Russia, including those dealing with serfdom.Massie also looks at the people she kept up correspondence with, including leading figures of the enlightenment, Voltaire and Diderot.
Massie's research into the life of Catherine II is extensive (for example, he used three different translations of her Memoirs) and wide-ranging and the writing style is engaging enough to almost make one forget this is a nearly 600 page book (it's the weight that gives it away).While I knew something about her life, there was much I hadn't and was fascinated to learn.
Several rumors are debunked here, like the one about the Potemkin Village (Massie states that those that talked about them weren't on her trip down the Dnieper, and those that were on the trip never mentioned anything amiss - even those representatives of foreign governments who would certainly have done so had there been fakery).
жирийн нэгэн герман охин Оросын хатан хаан болсон, болох болохдоо алдар цуугаа мандуулсан Орос орныг нийгэм, соёлын хөгжлийн шинэ шатанд авчирсан сонирхолтой түүх. Энэ намтрыг Оросын түүх, алдартай хаад ноёдын түүхээр дагнан бичдэг Пулитцерын шагнал бүхий зохиолч Роберт Масси бичжээ.http://saixan.blogspot.com/2017/01/ca...
This book indicates that there is no documentation to support these rumors and that they were probably started by enemies of Potemkin.There was no mention in this book of Catherine inviting German settlers to move into the newly conquered regions of the Ukraine to help develop the area.
(Actually, their move to Ukraine came later than Catherine's reign.)The following short review is from the PageADay Book Lover's Calendar for January 1, 2014:Why not start the New Year with someone who really knew how to get things done?
Catherine herself is presented sympathetically by Mr Massie: a child neglected by her mother; a wife ignored by her husband; a highly intelligent woman who had platonic relationships with thinkers like Diderot and Voltaire, and physical relationships with a number of different noble favourites some of whom fathered her children.This is both a detailed biography of Catherine the Great and a detailed history of Europe's 18th century, and while it wasn't always easy to read I found it absorbing.
The most I knew about Russia is focused around the last Romanovs, which was centuries after Catherine the Great was empress.
In here, it focused too much about her lovers, which left me feeling like I barely knew a thing about her politics.
Whenever Massie said something about how it's usual for her to feel this way about something, I would sort of look around and wonder if I really did think it was usual.If he cut out about the lovers, kept it chronological, and kept the focus on Catherine herself, then that would have cut down on it being too long.
She established the Russian art collection, now housed at The Hermitage and had Russia’s iconic statue the bronze equestrian figure of Peter the Great sculpted.
She built many of the finest structures in Russia, including the original Hermitage (then a small addition to the Winter Palace that she disliked) and the Marble Palace.Still, her reign was typically Russian in the never-ceasing expansion of the country’s boundaries, putting a Russian fleet in the Black Sea, taking the Crimea, and adding part of Poland.Even with all of this, she is perhaps remembered most for her succession of lovers and the author details all twelve of them.
Massie has consistently produced interesting narrative history for some forty years; from naval warfare in Dreadnought and Castles of Steel (my personal favorites) to Nicholas and Alexandra.This book describes the two periods in Catherine the Great's life.
The first, before she took power, was a series of court struggles and petty intrigue.
The second was personal struggle on a grand scale, attempting to modernize Russia and live under the ideal of the enlightened despot, like Maria Theresa or Frederick the Great.
