https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/20663770-death-by-black-hole
While Sagan must have smiled down kindly on your meek acknowledgement of ignorance regarding, say, black holes, Tyson will have most probably given you the stink eye or aimed a sarcastic jibe at your apathy, before proceeding to explain why black holes still remain a topic of much speculation in the community of astrophysicists worldwide.Tyson does not pull any punches in this collection of essays while slamming the news media, who more often than not, come off as ill-informed hacks doing a shoddy job of reporting facts in the field of space science, forever (stupidly) claiming how scientists are baffled by so-and-so new developments.
This man was the ideal author to ease myself into the brave new world of stellar science.Death by Black Hole is a collection of essays the Tyson penned for Natural History magazine over the course of several years.
Tyson is a man possessed of a childlike sense of wonder at the mysteries of the universe that sees the current limits of our scientific understanding not as having reached the final frontiers of science but as hurdles to be vaulted over in our quest to know.
not only being clear and humorous but wide-ranging and careful to build up a number of those necessary building blocks of knowledge but doing it precisely in order to slam you with the good stuff later.Like how you'd DIE IN A BLACK HOLE...
:)I can almost hear him say, "Let's throw out the crap, folks, let's dive right into the good stuff." And he does, ranging from the Big Bang to the Heat Death, kinds of possible life on planets, the building blocks we need to understand science, including a great "stick" analogy for understanding the universe without computers, and he even gets into a bit of politics and religion because let's face it: it's a hot discussion item.
In many ways, it's similar to every other pop science book out there - and there are so very many of them - but it is his perspective and his voice that makes this one stand out from the crowd.He's grouped his essays into seven sections, on topics ranging from the difficulties inherent in actually knowing anything about the universe to the understanding of how life went from little mindless bacteria to we clever Homo sapiens to the intersection of science and religion.
I don't think I can properly explain how much I love this book, but I'll try.Death by Black Hole: And Other Cosmic Quandaries is a collection of essays Tyson wrote for Natural History, a magazine dedicated to -- you guessed it -- natural history (basically, science) between 1995-2005.What I like about it:- Tyson writes in a way that's easily accessible for anyone even without a science background.
Unless you really like it.Issues for some people, but weren't issues for me:- I understand that some people may go, "Ugh, why does everything that has to do with science bring up religion and God!" Tyson does dedicate a whole section of the book to (omg) 3 essays dealing with religion's place in science.
I have one last section to go (Religion and Science), but my main points won't be affected by it.Death By Black Hole provides, especially in the first couple of sections, a really good outline of various problems that astrophysicists are confronted with, and it definitely made me think of the scientific process in a new way.
It should really have been edited a lot more aggressively.But on the whole, I think this is a really good pick for a layperson who doesn't know much about astronomy and isn't interested in involved explanations of the physical and chemical side of things.
إن صوت الشخص الذي يقرأ الكتاب مشابه جدًا لتايسون لدرجة أني حسبته هو الذي يقرؤه في البداية، خاصة وأنه يستخدم نفس أسلوبه في قراءة الكلمات وبث الروح فيها.مواضيع الكتاب مشوقة جدًا، فمنذ البداية يطرح تايسون تاريخ العلم وظاهرة إعلان العلماء وصولنا لمنتهاه وأن كل ما يمكن معرفته قد تم معرفته وأن كل ما هناك ليس سوى تعديلات بسيطة هنا وهناك، قبل أن تحدث ثورة علمية تغير شكل العلم بالكامل.
وثم يتحدث عن الثوابت والقوانين الكونية وهل هي حقًا ثابتة وموجودة بنفس الطريقة في الكون كله؟حقيقةً المواضيع التي يتطرق لها الكتاب كثيرةً جدًا ورائعة، بعضها مررت بها سابقًا ولكن طريقة تقديم تايسون لها تجعلك تنظر لنفس الموضوع من زاوية أخرى وهذا ما يجعل فهمك له أكثر عمقًا ويرسخ المعلومة بشكل قوي من خلال استخدام أمثة سهلة التذكر.
I was not learning anything new, and not gaining new insights into astronomy.But, as I read further, it just hit me--this book is tremendously entertaining!
And, believe it or not, you will be entertained!In addition, Tyson puts several aspects of astronomy and astrophysics into a unique perspective.
But many of these lethal phenomena could be responsible for life existing on Earth, in the first place!I really did appreciate the arguments put forward against the idea of "Intelligent Design." Just because some areas in cosmology are not understood, does not mean that one is required to invoke God as a cause.
Blinded by scienceEinstein, Io, comet tails Information glutI consider myself an intelligent person.
I'm just not sure what happen between me and Death by Black Hole: And Other Cosmic Quandaries.....Maybe I just wasn't in the mood for a science-y book.
Maybe I over estimated my intelligence.
whaa wha whaa wha whaa Galileo, wha wha E=mc2, whaa whaa whaa Gravity sucks.I would get some really good, crunchy tidbit and be riveted.....and then the mind would drift to something like "I wonder if I fed the cats, and CRAP I forgot to start the dishwasher"........then I would drift back to the science stuff.It just didn't hold my attention.
They are intended to be short, punchy scientific stories and not form an ongoing dialogue.In this respect Neil did a brilliant job.
Fine for an ongoing column and understandable for a collection, but still, a little work could have been taken to cull and back reference sections.Don't get me wrong, I adored this book.
You'll definitely connect with him if you are sceptical, scientific or just a spotter of bullshit.This book left me wanting more.
I want some long form stories, woven into a larger narrative.
My preferred way of meditating is to sit in my balcony and look at the stars.
I would lay awake thinking about the black holes.
Of our star-dust bodies.
To think of our frivolities against the colors of the chalky galaxy.
Of Jupiter’s moon Europa with its layers of ice stretching across the sphere.
The moon of ice.
The book was easily fathomable and with a subject like the universe, it can leave one startled.
Some of the chapters near the end of the book didn’t interest me as much, mainly concerning media, culture and religion (and of their relation/references to astronomy).
Tyson makes a point to belittle the human race as much as possible and he comes across as pessimistic.
By no means do I think humans are the pinnacle of perfection, but I think we're doing pretty well.The content of the book was all over the place and only briefly touched on black holes and other cosmic quandaries.
In fact the titular cosmological event, though an "entire" chapter, was hardly described while long tangents about minor events in historical figures' lives were expounded in detail.I don't recommend this book to any but those that are cursorily interested in cosmology.
I recommend Hawking, Brian Greene or Amir Aczel.
Entertainingly informative, Neil DeGrasse Tyson's  Death by Black Hole   was exquisitely written by this master storyteller and it took me to places I never thought existed and opened my eyes to the littlest and to the grandest discoveries and mistakes in the field of astrophysics.Although I enjoyed reading this book, I admit that it was quite overwhelming at some points that it took me almost a year to finish it.This book, like the facts in it, was indeed baffling in a good way.

Ok, so you're looking for a science book that's accessible to everyone - you've found it!
Neil goes over some really interesting concepts, but they aren't what I would say for advanced readers.
Much like his work on Cosmos, the concepts are simple but entertaining and informative.
Like always, it's written in a warmer tone than say, Dawkins or Hitchens, and is even more accessible than Hawking although his works are written for the every day person as well.
I'd love to meet this guy one day.
Him, Bill Nye, Carl Sagan and Stephen Hawking sparked my love of science in my high school years, and it became an obsession in my adulthood.
Neil Degrasse Tyson is one of those science guys that you wished you had as a teacher, he's excited and impassioned by his subject and it shows on every page. Mostly known as the host of PBS's Nova Science Now, he never talks over your head, but at the same time, Tyson always assumes that you're intelligent and can grasp the concepts he's discussing. It's a fine balance that many science writers fail to master. Anyone who is interested in Astronomy should give this book a try. It covers a lot of ground and is ultimately a very rewarding read.
There isn't anything particularly advanced in this book, though as it is a collection of essays, perhaps that is expected. It's easy to get into as a result, and Tyson has a good style that stays entertaining while being informative.
There has been a bit of editing to smooth out the sequencing and to make it an easier read.While I enjoyed all the essays, I took exception to the last one, entitled, The Perimeter of Ignorance.
As a devout person, but one who would have been a scientist, if not for a few chance decisions and a problem with basic arithmetic, I find everything divinely inspired, even those things we do understand.
Too many people equate religion with ignorance, without considering the fact that the intelligent people who believe, must have a valid reason for doing so.
Going on from here, Death by Black Hole address the crucial steps that led to the formation of the universe and its development over the many billions and billions of years, again explaining how it is that scientists know what they do and what instruments were used, as well as the history of who invented and used said instruments.It is then that Tyson finally turns to the subject matter of the title of the book in the section “When the Universe Turns Bad: All the Ways the Cosmos Wants to Kill Us.” Here he addresses the complex and still relatively unknown subjects of chaos theory, dark matter (which constitutes over 90% of all matter in the universe, while we still know next to nothing about it), and finally black holes.
in this young, still fertile century, there may not be a better emissary and evangelist for scientific curiosity than neil degrasse tyson.
death by black hole: and other cosmic quandaries collects 42 of tyson's essays from natural history magazine, published over 11 years beginning in 1995.death by black hole is divided into 7 sections; each delving into a particular realm of scientific inquest and knowledge.
spanning 13.8 billion years, tyson considers everything from the big bang and inflation to the current state of science education and its detractors.
and what better conduit to the stars than the essays of neil degrasse tyson.
According to her numbers, that leaves 0.0000004 planets with intelligent life on them, which is a figure somewhat lower than “millions.” No doubt that “one in a million” sounds better on screen than “one in ten,” but you can’t fake math."Kako kaže u nastavku ne krivi toliko scenariste koliko samu Jodie Foster koja je završila studij na prestižnom Yale sveučilištu, a nije ukazala na tu grešku.Ima i dio o odnosu znanosti i religije.
A sort of a Nearly a Histhory of Everything but foccused mainly on astrophysics,writen as a series of articles touching diverse subjects.A very entertaining,easy to read popular science book with, unusual in this sort of books, a touch of fine and at times acid humor.It has two very interesting final chapters where the author makes a disgression of the relations between people,science and religion,and makes clear his position in regard to the inteligent design hypotesis with yhe following textual phrase :"Science is a philosofy of discovery.Inteligent design is a philosophy of ignorance.A interesting,entertaining and easy summer read
Well written and great stuff for the universe geek (or anyone with the slightest interest and curiosity for learning). NDT adds some fun with his quirks and humor. Allow me to indulge in a little pun here- And it ends with a bang. ;)
But then in the following chapter Tyson contends that life will only originate on a planet with a temperature that allows liquid water i.e. in the Goldilocks Zone.
Originally these essays would have been published months or years apart, but juxtaposed like this it is a frustrating read, to say the least.The other problem with short essays is that things just start to get interesting and it's over.
In chapter 21 Tyson briefly mentions technetium; an element with a half-life of only 2 million years, but which is nevertheless found in red giant stars.
The sentences don't blend together so much as float like an oily film, and trying to read too many consectutive pieces put together makes me feel as if my brain were a poorly done game of tetris - too many holes and not enough matching lines.But hey, I'm for anything that gets people reading, and I'm especially for anything that gets people reading about the world and about science.
It goes without saying that I'm far happier this book is out there and so widely read than never having been published.
Death by Black Hole is one of the most interesting non-fiction science books I've ever read.
This isn't a book about farfetched scenarios as its title implies - only a single chapter was actually about "death by black hole" - but the rest of the book presented a thorough and highly scientific explanation of the universe as we know it.Being that this book wasn't written as one cohesive text (it's a summary of essays as I mentioned), there is some informational overlap between the chapters.
I feel that the reason that people do not understand science in the US today is because we have a foolish tradition of thinking that the only way to "know" physics is through the terse formalism of mathematics.
The disservice we do as scientists are when we are unable to communicate the concepts about our physical world to the population at large because we tangle ourselves up in mathematical formalism.Neil DeGrasse Tyson will never have that criticism hurled against him.It is in the tradition of Sagan, Gribbin and Hawking that Tyson writes and his essays are pure delight, discussing the concepts of physics as though he was having a casual coffee talk.
This journey has made me quite familiar with Tyson and I figured it was about time to pick up one of his texts.Death by Black Hole is a collection of essays and lectures spanning the entire field of astrophysics and cosmology.
I feel both filled with new knowledge, and humbled by the amount I, and the rest of my human brothers and sisters, do not know yet.But as Tyson lays out in his book, it's not wrong to be ignorant of something as long as you are continuing to try and figure it out.Science is a philosophy of discovery.
If the lovely fact that our sun will probably burn out in 4 billion years and our beloved Earth will turn into a huge ball of black rock because of it (until it's vaporized that is) bothers you, keeps you up in the night, this book might not be for you.
. I wanted to slap him...anyway, I remember learning about prisms and color and how our brain interprets it, and thinking that was the coolest thing!
I remember telling my twelve year old sister about it, about how a prism works and why we are able to see that myriad of colors without moving our eyes (look it up, it's really cool!).
There is always more to learn, there is always more to discover, and if the essays in his book are any indication, it is all utterly fascinating.The last part of the book deals with science and religion.
God debate makes you uncomfortable, have no fear--it's a very small part of the book, tucked in at the very end after all the terrific science essays.I highly recommend this book, even if you're only slightly interested in the universe.
