https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/77739.Honor_Among_Enemies
The story of how a population descended from predominately Chinese ancestors ended up ruled by Bavarian style monarchs...the details of why their light ships work (and retelling me how they work every freaking time you speak of ships going somewhere.) And Oh yes, let's not forget the "love lives" of Tree Cats!To make matters worse...well, some people have applied a certain name to the Honor Harrington character I've refused to use.
Her enemies are still around (the ones she hasn't killed that is) and they think getting her back and sending her out on a converted cargo ship to hunt down "space pirates" might be a great way to get her killed...
The Manticarin Admiralty however think this may be a great way just to get "Super Woman" back in their Space Navy.Really...
In this story, Honor is called back into the Manticore fleet and given a chance to restore her name.
Desperate to stop the bleeding but unable to divert any serious strength from the main conflict, Manticore calls upon Honor Harrington.
Again, everything I recalled about not liking in the Honorverse continues to drive me nuts.
The shameless borrowing from history absolutely ruins immersion.
Also, there is simply way too much of the 'space opera' in the books than I would like.
Too much borrowing from history, too much space opera, too much of the ridiculous cats.
Ok, the info dumps are a bit rough, but Weber is also trying to fill in too much past history, too. That makes this a bit rougher of a read than the previous books or maybe I've just had my fill. I definitely could not listen to this as an audio book. I needed to be able to skim. The basic story is good & pretty interesting, although it would have been better served if it hadn't focused on her so completely. There was plenty of opportunity to expand the story & not using that was kind of criminal.
Honor takes on pirates with an under-strength squadron as a means of rehabilitating her political standing in the Star Kingdom.
This is the last of the main Honorverse books to not be centered around the main fighting with Haven.Honor herself is, as always, a little too perfect to be believable but if you're this far in the series, you know what to expect.
Even more interestingly, this book has a further look into treecats with the introduction of Samantha, a segue into further Honorverse stories.One of the longer books in the series to this point, it does have the feel of a book that is transitioning from one place to another in a series, which, frankly, it is.
In a storyline somewhat reminiscent of On Basilisk Station, Honor is offered an impossible command by people who have their reasons for almost preferring it if she fails.The Manticorian Navy have developed a new line of Q-ships – modified merchant ships, heavily laden with weaponry but not much speed or armour – and with a rag-tag crew of left-overs, rejects and people between other commands she sets out to prove herself, again, by pretending to be a hapless merchant ship and waiting for the pirates to attack.
First read September 8, 2010.Christ, I kept trying to go to sleep, and Honor kept waking me up...I just could not put the book down and got to sleep...finally...about 5am. Man, Weber is GOOD. He pulls you into the action and you can't help but identify with all the characters.Military sci-fi at its best. And, if you like the technical stuff, this is it.
A better-than-average Honor Harrington, which are better-than-average space operas. Enough complexity and depth to keep the reader mentally engaged.Nimitz falls in love. Oh, my.The Horatio Hornblower reference was cute.A good read.
In order to get back into the good graces of the Manticoran military and political complex, Honor is given the task of ridding the Silesian Confederacy area of the pirates menacing their merchant and freight liners.
Rich and powerful adversaries notwithstanding, the idea that sacrificing thousands of people simply to dispose of Honor is clearly abhorrent even to Hauptman, yet at least he stands to gain something if she succeeds.And while the pirates and even Haven make things difficult, and while there are the usual politics I've come to expect in the Harrington books, nothing really leapt out at me as surprising.
There are good and bad aspects of this book.
I'll start with the bad and end with the good.1.
2. Honor is special in way too many ways.
all over again, with the addition of the fact that when Tschu dies is death has no emotional revelance, not even in terms of getting the reader to feel for Samantha.
Instead, it seems to be used to show us how great Honor is, yet again.Now for the good:1.
I found myself more concerned with them than with Honor.
In fact, I couldn't have cared less about Honor, but the supporting characters were interesting.2.
Honor's loophole.5.
In this book Honor is offered a new command in her native Manticore Navy.
The new command she is offered in the Manticoran navy is vastly inferior, she is to command a squadron of armed merchant ships, not even real warships!Of course she accepts, mostly to get back into Manticoran uniform and to start her rehabilitation.
Seeing that Haven still has good people in it helps us realize that this war isn't the Good vs Evil fight it was first seen as.There are a number of parallels to draw between 'Honor Among Enemies,' and 'On Basilisk Station,' the first book in the series.
It's offsetting to have a character call his victim snotnose, and then also have enemy ships which rape the crews they capture.
Honor lives up to her title of Mary Sue. It was nice to be back to the space battles and away from the religious squabbling on Grayson.I thought there was a lack of complexity to this book that there had been in the previous ones.
Not that any of the characters in this series have been particularly nuanced (pretty much black/white, good/evil), but the overall plot seemed a little flat.
Because ultimately if you consider this particularly plot in the whole Honor story-line, what's going to come of this?
This book is really long...
had to skim through a lot of techno-babble as well as lots of geographic and historical backstory stuff.
At the heart is still a rousing adventure with lots of moves and counter-moves by all sorts of parties and of course, lots of deaths and casualties...
:(A good installment, albeit overly long.
But after reading 6 Honor Harrington books in one go, it's time for me to surrender and declare a temporary ceasefire....
just feeling a bit too battle fatigued to continue for now and come back after a bit of a system reboot by reading something else.
I should probably give this one five stars too since it is still better than the vast majority of science fiction books that I have read.
However, since it is a little weaker than the other books in the series so far, I'll dock it a star pour encourager les autres.It reads a little like an intermezzo between the first half of the series, which took Honor (the main character) from a relative unknown to fame and fortune then exile.
This book brings her back from exile and sets her up for further adventures.
six books read in six days and counting....
Another entertaining entry in this series, but good grief at the body count. This episode is Honor vs. Space Pirates, who have been attacking Manticore merchant ships while the RMN is distracted by the war. The pirates turn out to be much nastier than the Peeps, who are the honorable enemies referred to by the title.
It's too bad some of the political meetings go on and on, rehashing the same info a lot. Otherwise this would be 5-star stuff.Some great characters and situations.As always, the space battles and daily space activities are fascinating and superbly well-done, even after 6 books!
We are introduced to new characters and while most of them feel like fillers, at least we are given a chance to follow something else than Honor's personal issues.
The whole book feels like a welcome return to what made me like this series in the first place, which is the space military aspect.
For this alone "Honor Among Enemies " deserves praising.Of course - because it wouldn't be an Honor Harrington book without it (and I say this with the utmost contempt) - rape is still a factor :/ I don't know, it's like there isn't any point to attacking anyone without raping at least one woman.
Great as usual 😀
This book was a big disappointment after the last two in the series.Don't get me wrong; it's still worth reading, it's full of dramatic tension, and you have to understand what went on here in order to understand the rest of the novels, but it bogs down in most of the first half with painful infodumps and the "downer" of Honor returning to the Manticoran Navy to a position well beneath her talents that puts her in an entirely unnecessary situation.
There is a bit of actual character development this time, but slightly too predictable in ...
And I also like the way he portrays good guys and bad guys on both sides of the war (all sides?) though I don't like the cookie-cutter-ish clarity of almost all the characters as being honorable or execrable.The plot slogs quite a bit at the beginning but gets moving well in the later 2/3 of the book, enough to keep me reading when it was what I had loaded on my e-reader for a trip.
Still, good easy reading when that's what you're looking for, fun but without all that much depth.
David Weber went over board with the science info dump and background history on Honorverse.
This is the biggest of the Harrington book with 544 pages.
Of them almost 400 are useless stuff which one would want to skip.
It's only the last 100 pages which are a fun read.
Too many background characters and potential story's were introduced but the focus on info dump never got the author to expend on them.
This book really took a toll on me to read and only wanting to continue with the otherwise excellent series made me finish it.
Seriously suggest other to skip this book
I enjoyed the main story a lot - the building of a cohesive crew, the fight against overwhelming odds, and the humanity and inhumanity shown by both sides in the conflict. However, I must admit I probably lightly skimmed about 1/3 of the book - the long-winded explanations of history, tech, etc. are just not my cup of tea.
A proper continuation of an excellent series. If you have read the previous novels you'll know what to expect. HH6 is a continuation on that where Honor returns to the Manticore Navy to hunt for pirates and so regain her Manticoren naval command. Expect more interesting characters, a wealth of personal touches and intricate battles-scenes. On to HH7
Yes, Harrington and her career are becoming way too implausible. Still, this book was complicated, the plot developed from different directions. There were some interesting developments (especially involving Nimitz). It was a look up and realize it is 2:30 a.m. on a work night kind of book.
2018 re-read. Very good, the best so far in this excellent series.
The more I read of this series the better it gets (for me anyway) the mixture of science fiction and naval terminology is fascinating. On to the next one!
Bring me more Honor!! Weber's writing really brings the characters and the story alive.
Over the last few books, the in and out of character musings on the object lesson of the People's Republic of Haven have grown starker, and preachier, and as a result less interesting (although this book does interestingly flesh out some of its political figures in nice ways, that make me want to know more about their careers).
The other problem with this book is that the degree of luck that plays into Harrington's achievements seemed to me to shoot through the roof.
So events feel more than a little forced here.I still like this series a lot, and I figure I will read at least the next couple in it.
Vast expanses of exposition about the neighbouring stellar empires, tin-pot dictatorships, and pirate havens does not, unfortunately, add to the rich tapestry of the Honorverse: all you really get is a desire to skip ahead.Taken at face value, and ignoring some Idiot Ball moves by the characters (well, how else are we to get something exciting to happen), and also ignoring the attempts to create pathos which don't work because we simply don't know the characters that well, and ignoring the fact that this isn't about Honor, it's about a dozen other characters who get more page-time than she does...
(Though they had to go through some cringe-worthy, ham-fisted shenanigans to get there).The pacing was fantastic, characters and world quite interesting, and badassery abounded.There were some issues with too many of the named characters suffering no real consequences, some cardboard cut-outs for bad guys, and over-glorification of pretty much every naval officer - no matter which navy you're in, unless you're actually a politician using the navy for selfish reasons, then you're a paragon of virtue.
Or his non-naval characters all need to be better people or they need to be presented as not-normal-people or something.
Along the way, we are introduced to the Andermani Empire (an entity that will probably play a large role in future books) as well as a large group of new characters (both good and bad).
It is clear that Weber simply likes his main character too much to give her any real flaws.
Early in the book, Klaus Hauptman and Reginald Houseman (on a side note, reading dialogue between characters with such similar last names can be very confusing), both of whom consider Honor to be a personal enemy, discuss how good she is at her job.
