https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/162.Untouchable
It amuses me to no end how there has been no perceivable ebb in the flow of Holocaust-World War II novels and yet every time a Toni Morrison and an Alice Walker and a Richard Wright and a Ralph Ellison have tried to address the elephant in the room or America's endemic race problem which like a many-headed monster continues to rampage on unvanquished, they have been accused of betraying an overt political mindedness and a violation of that much harped upon maxim of 'art for art's sake.'"Oh Toni Morrison won the Nobel because she wrote about slavery you know!"Before you scoff at the above declamation let me mention that I have quoted that statement verbatim.
I must read more on caste and how it came to be.
This has broadened his thinking, shown him the imbecility of the millennia-old system he lived under, and made him feel things could be different than they are.
As the story progresses, and Bakha is assailed from all quarters with declarations of “pollution, pollution!” That this handsome and industrious young man should on this day, perhaps for the first time, truly feel the proportions of the terrible trap that is his life, makes for a terrible moment.He was part of a consciousness which he could share and yet not understand.
He was further demotivated when one of the young poets, after knowing that Mulkraj was going to write about his growing up years among tough boys, sons of bandsmen, washer men and sweepers, said, leave your Cockneys in their sordid world….As we ignore the Russian writer Gorky’s ‘Lower depths’; write like Laurence Hope about flowers in garden Shalimar!Then coming back to India, Mulkraj wrote this novel under the guidance of Gandhi.
He has depicted very artfully the conflicts between the high caste and lower caste people in the society and has finally reached to the argument that the untouchability was inhumane.Bakha is a representative of down trodden in the pre-independent era of India.
Bakha tries hard to rise above his social standing, Mulk Raj Anand exhibiting his trademark humanism, by showcasing the essential dignity of even such a depraved condition.
In naive child-like enthusiasm, Bakha dares to dream, but we see how he is going to be worn down every day.
We experience a very small bit of his life, and even though he doesn't know it, we can see that the many indignities and outrages he suffer are things he will soon grow immune to and learn to take as his lot.
We know that is the problem.The ironical highpoint of the book is when Mahatma comes to Bakha's village.
So whether its cleaning latrines or cleaning (un)flushed toilets, or sweeping the streets clean of 'parachute' bags, this caste of Untouchables, these Children of God, are still plying their traditional trade.Sometimes I wonder if everything evil under the sun couldn't find its justification in one religion or another?
Lucky aren't I, to have a bookshop and only a slightly iffy computer to annoy me rather than having to live with broken flush toilets and crap to clean from the streets?Heavily revised 24th April, 2016.
With the same touch, even with his smallest finger, he can defile another person so that even if the latter is on his way to an important appointment and is running late, for example, he'll have to go back home to wash and purify himself;4.
His powers are carried over also by the inanimate objects he touches.
He is the lowest of the low-caste Untouchables of India; street-sweeper, latrine-cleaner, collector of human and animal waste.This is a novel about this superhero named Bakha (quite appropriate: "Baka" in Tagalog is cow, and cows are the holiest of animals in India).
This is a novel about a superhero written by another superhero:, Mulk Raj Anand--he who has this other super power called Compassion.
I almost feel guilty for not liking this book.It's about my country and one of the gravest problems it has faced (and continues to), the atrocious caste system and from which arose the worst possible outcome - untouchability.
I did feel pitiful and sympathetic towards the character but I did not like the book which is mostly because I didn't like the narration so much.
The Indian setting and culture is described but not well enough.
If I weren't an Indian, I don't think I would've understood them completely.
My first book of 2K17 & first from Mr. Mulk Raj Anand.His Thoughts were far high and beyond than his time.
He reminds me of 'Raja Ravi Varma', who had gifted with his art, to the people of lower caste, the way of worshiping the GOD (idolaters).However the story drafted was an act of fiction but still its reflecting the realistic thoughts and realism in society at that time.
Very well written, this work of fiction gives immense peace while reading it, even when I myself comes under the Upper (Gen. catog.) caste in the present society which started with this discriminating system far back.For me its: 4.5/5.0
From the point of view of a sweeper, contact with Brahmins and other higher cast Hindus is fraught with peril, as accidentally touching a Brahmin can cause a riot, and in this book almost does at two points, once involving the hero, Bakha, and once involving his sister.Untouchable was written in English and published in 1935, while India was still a British Crown Colony.
Bakha is drawn to the English and likes to imitate them, admiring their openness in dealing with a mere sweeper.
This book is an eye-opener to one who, like me, has never been to India.
Written in 1935, this novel is told from the perspective of Bakha, a sweeper, of the lowest level of the outcaste Untouchables.
Several such episodes of this are dramatized in the plot of the book, set in a single day: Bakha absent-mindedly brushes against a man who makes a spectacle of berating him and later causes a commotion when he approaches too close to a Hindu temple to observe the liturgy taking place.
The end of the novel features an interesting succession of figures - including an appearance by Gandhi himself - who offer reflections about the problem of untouchability and the future of India, slipping politics in explicitly but not obtrusively.
Reading in between the time when I finished other books and was getting a new one, I had to recall whatever happened till the pages I had read.
We all have bad days and we all look for answers to the big problems we face and how world treats us whether as being a women, being poor, being uneducated, being out of place, being unclued to the topic being discussed or being lonely or like being untouchable.
and we all get over it - find some logic or reason to how this happened and learn to cope with it just like Bhakha in this book.
His father feigns an injury and sends Bakha to perform his own sweeping duties, and events unfold from there.I enjoyed this book while it was following Bakha's day, but I thought it lost form at the end where Gandhi makes an appearance to give a public lecture.
Here it becomes a lecture to the reader, one that the main character himself only understands a small amount of.For me the end of the book didn't give closure - I won't go into detail, as there would be spoilers, but the story just sort of ran out of steam.3 stars.
He dreams of the day he will be able to do the work of his father, the head of all the local sweepers and who is responsible for cleaning the streets of the town and the temple courtyard.
Hopeful again, he turns for home to tell his father about Gandhi and the new machine--the flush toilets."Untouchable" was a contemporary story.
Excellent book!The book is an account of a boy named Bakha, son of lakha, being a sweeper he was not allowed to be entered into the temples and other Hindu religious places as well as the homes of upper caste Hindus.
His father abused him a lot and the family of four people used to fed over the left-overs of the weddings or the breads lying near the filthy sewers.Their life was utterly miserable!!The book is based upon the idea of untouchability and emphasises on the abolition of it.
There are many such instances in the novel where you’ll get disillusioned about the Indian society during the English era.
First of all, I have to say it's pretty awesome to have E. M. Forster write the preface for your book.Briefly, this is the story of one day in the life of a young untouchable (latrine-cleaner, lowest caste of Hindu society). We experience all his emotions and all the abuse that is heaped on him and clearly see the horrors of the caste society, but it is much more interesting than that. We experience the teeming vibrancy of Indian life and the convoluted thoughts and feelings of a frustrated teenager, surprisingly appealing.
I have written a book review on this book.Can find it on my blog- silentlywescream.blogspot.comHope that helps :)
Carrie by Stephen King My first book love book this year was "Untouchable", written by Mulk Raj Anand.
This novel helped me understand the human rights issues we have discussed in our class by exposing me to the wide range of physical and mental abuse humans can face due to their different social classes, race or religion.
The novel’s main character is "Bhaka", who is an "untouchable", outcast boy at the very bottom of the caste system.
It exposes the difficult life and struggles of the out-casts or "Untouchable" people.
In the end of the novel, Mulk Raj Anand presents three answers to Bhaka's issue.
Bakha is a sweeper which means he cleans the streets and latrines so that the "clean" Hindus do not have to worry about there own waste.Because touching Bakha would make a Hindu "polluted" he must announce his presence at all times by calling out sweeper coming, so that the other castes can avoid him.As a caste Untouchables are not allowed to get their own water for fear of "polluting" wells and rivers, when they buy anything the shop keepers sprinkle water on their money before touching it to purify it and whatever they purchase is not handed to them but put at an acceptable distance for them to pick up.Our day with Bakha is full of events some good and others decidedly bad, we are shown how it feels to be born into a system that you can never escape and how that shapes your character and your behaviour.
Written simply and directly it captures the many humiliations, trials and tribulations that Bakha and his father, younger brother and sister experience at the hands of higher caste Hindus.It's a relatively short but enlightening read and vividly creates the atmosphere of the times and place for this reader at any rate.
Readers who are interested in an account of more recent years will find P.Sainaths well written "Everybody Loves a Good Drought: Stories from India's Poorest Districts" an invaluable resource.The author of the untouchable Mulk Raj Anand has apparently been described as the Indian Dickens, but I feel he is quite a different author from Dickens (in this book at any rate) - far different in style and none the worse for it.
I didn't really like it, I certainly didn't love it.
The concept of "untouchables" has bothered me for quite some time and reading a novel in which one is the main character certainly appealed to me.
Bakha is a fantastic character.
In the end the novel gets a bit preachy and introduces 3 possible solutions to Bakha's predicament: Christianity, Gandhi's proposal to eliminate "untouchability" or the flush toilet.
Bakha is unable to fully understand any of these concepts but it leaves the reader to think about how each one could solve the problem it its own unique way.
Mulk Raj Anand has used simple english to ask an effective question through the narration of a story. The text probes the readers to question as who were the actual tyrants, the British or our very own people who were socalled 'upper-caste'? The protagonist, Baku encounters various injustuce done to him and he is the depiction of the whole race of the then called 'lower-caste' people. It was a nice read overall!
It is comfortably easy to argue against the practice of untouchability when one isn't at the receiving end.
And Anand ensures that a single day is enough.The arguments against the practice normally revolve around the socio-economic (and sometimes, political) aspect of the oppression.
Bakha isn't your typical fierce, fearless and determined protagonist in spite of the fact that he has the potential to be one.
He is a perfect example of a wasted potential which never fails to mark its presence and yet, never evolves.I don't know if any other book reveals the hypocrisy of an orthodox Hindu society better than Anand's 'Untouchable' but nonetheless, the book is a great read.
'Untouchables' tells us about a day in the life of a sweeper in pre-independence India.
I am not sure if I should use the adjective 'pre-independence', because the picture this book presents transcends time.
The picture is very similar to the life of a sweeper in today's India, although the caste discrimination might have assumed a modern form.
Towards the end of the of the book, the author gives Bhaka the hope that 'the flush system' will relieve a sweeper from the stigma of untouchability and make him an equal member of casteless and classless society.
This book is a rare glimpse into the Hindu society of India before 1950's.
The story of an eventful day in the life of Bakha; an untouchable, someone living at the fringes of the Hindu society.Bakha is a young man with zest for life, yet struggling as a latrine cleaner.
Just as dusk falls he returns home with a hope that a change of times is ahead.So graphic is Anand's story telling that the book felt like a bad-dream from start till the end.
A must read for all Indians for there are lessons in the book that are relevant even today!!!!
On the face of it everyone acts that they do not discriminate, but where do we go with a century of psyche and conditioned mind that lived in the society where caste system is still rampant.Change is coming but slowly and that is what I liked about this book, the author was able to bring out the subject and show how change comes surely but subtly even in the mind of the victim in this book Bakha, the son of a sweeper and is form the lowest rung of caste system in India, in times where septic systems were not available and humans who were considered to be born in the lowest rung of caste pyramid, had to do these menial jobs.
The story goes through the daily life of this man, showing the presence of multiple unfair and inhuman treats from society to him, his family and other untouchables.+ As an assigned reading from school, my mindset reading this book was mainly analysis more than pleasure.
This being said I highly enjoy it, but books like this in which the story told is and unfair reality make me uneasy about how to rate it.+ The author make a good job in making the reader feel impotent, specially me in which I needed to put down the book and take a deep breath to control myself+ It was refreshing to read about a reality in which religion was the one dictating the main problem per say, as well as how the author gives the political solutions and different citizens opinions.
Through the story Untouchable, Mulk Raj Anand gives a rare glimpse at the social evil deeply rooted within the Hindu society during the pre-independent India.
At the core of the novel it brings forth the many injustices faced by the outcaste societies on a daily basis and the hypocrisy and dehumanizing attitude towards the low caste people by the upper class Hindus.
Mulk Raj Anand also highlights the impact of the industrial technology introduced by the British into India on the attitudes and ideologies of the Indian society as an undercurrent of the story.It definitely was a good book.
Where do I even start with this book? It was a brilliant example of the caste system, had some interesting ideas about British colonialism, and even more interesting ideas about religion. HOWEVER, it took about ten pages to describe a woman getting water from a well? Literally nothing happened until the very end and that felt forced and cut short. And why was the main character so obsessed with trousers?! I mean I know why! It explained why! BUT WHY IT WAS SO RIDICULOUS!
A day in the life of a young untouchable (manual scavenger) in colonial India. Young Bakha rebels in the little ways that he can, despite knowing the futility of his struggles. He feels confused, frustrated and hurt by the aversion of high-caste people towards him. However, the book ends on hopeful note.
More interesting as a snapshot in time than based on literary merit. Authors who came after Anand explore the same themes more evocatively but maybe he was the first. Additionally the cruelty of the caste system does make for compelling reading.
