https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1025194.Sinister_Barrier
This novel, like most works of Russell, is more about humanity than the inhuman or non-human perils that they face. It's a thinly veiled exploration as well as exploitation of paranoia resulting from the cold war situation. Basic question that it seeks to address is: what would you do if you are surrounded, in fact controlled by invisible enemies?Unfortunately, the protagonist goes for stock response like ray guns and such stuff. But the book was enjoyable. It had also inspired a Bengali work named প্রাচীন আতঙ্ক by Adrish Bardhan, who had penned a Professor Nut-Boltu-Chakra story around it.
Anyone who even thinks about the possibility of their existence is doomed as soon as one of the aliens comes close enough to sense his or her thoughts.But as science progresses, an accidental discovery reveals their secret, even though the discoverers die like flies, one after the other.
Pistol bullets are "segmentary" similar to experimental frangible bullets of today.The book is an alien invasion, murder mystery, and horror story all in one and is the grandfather to all the iconic stories mentioned at the beginning.If you enjoy truly classic science fiction and a rousing thriller, read Sinister Barrier.
The love story feels tacked on--and not very motivated by love--and especially trivial compared to the stakes: so the main character wants to save humanity, and also get a date.To be fair, the first half of the book works well as a mystery, though there are too many red herrings, and too many leads that suddenly disappear, as though Russell were stretching things.
(Needless chase scenes are not a new Hollywood invention!) The second half, in which the vitons are cast off, does not work nearly as well, though Russell does his best to maintain suspense.
Bill Graham, un agente estadounidense, es testigo involuntario de una de estas muertes.
Sin embargo, cuando investiga un poco más en el asunto, empieza a sospechar que dichas muertes son más bien asesinatos.
Pero, ¿quiénes son los artífices?‘Barrera siniestra’ (Sinister Barrier, 1939), del escritor Eric Frank Russell, es una novela de ciencia ficción encuadrada en ese curioso subgénero que es el de las invasiones silenciosas, donde destacan ‘¿Quién anda ahí?, de John W.
Heinlein, y ‘La invasión de los ladrones de cuerpos’, de Jack Finney.
La novela empieza como una historia policial, pero según se suceden los acontecimientos, se va adentrando más en el género fantástico.
Another concept that at one time may have been original but since then has been done to death. Star Trek TOS vs Klingons anybody? "...alien energy beings fed on human emotions." Ho-hum. The writing itself didn't draw me in.
The Vitons can read minds, so they pursue anyone else (at first, only some fellow-scientists) who has obtained the forbidden knowledge that will make humanity aware of them.Anyway, the book was fun at the beginning, because it's unknown why prominent scientists are dying suddenly and violently.
Russell is constantly comparing this process to the milking of a cow.I was inspired to read this after learning that the book was originally presented as a serial in the legendary pulp magazine, "Unknown," edited by John W.
In a way, it's in the tradition of H.G. Wells's "War of the Worlds," but the premise is that we have been unwittingly been dominated by an invisible species for the duration of our history.
The first third of the book plays out like a bit of murder mystery, with scientists mysteriously dying around the world, and from there the Fortean phenomena angle is revealed as seemingly unrelated pieces of information culminate in a revelation of planetary significance.
From there things escalate into a world war 3 scenario with a race to discovering a sort-of 'silver-bullet' solution to the worlds problem.
Main problem with this book is how clunky the writing is, and the 1950's gumshoe aesthetic of the dialogue doesn't help.
All-in-all I'd only recommend this book to hardcore classic SF fans.
Enormous fun. Great concept, well executed and rattles along at a brisk pace.Scientists are dying - suicide, sudden heart attacks, horrible accidents - and a government investigator looks into the deaths and discovers an awful truth that threatens the world. Written in the late 1930s, so some of the phrasing is kind of wierd and things can get a bit clunky and overblown at times. And then there's the appalling attitude to women on display :-/Despite the faults, I enjoyed it a lot.
50 years old and still creepy as hell!
Lettura non indispensabile.Un romanzo noioso e scontato, con personaggi bidimensionali e dialoghi al limite del ridicolo. Il copione ideale per un mediocre b-movie di fantascienza, per altro datata.
Didn't finish. Didn't like the writing style.
On one hand the story is entertaining. On the other, the novel casually is racist in most 1930s way.
Okay sf pulp adventure, tedious in places, quite readable in others. In some ways, it foreshadows Colin Wilson's The Mind Parasites.
Тут и операции спецслужб, и загадки науки, и мировые войны, и инопланетные захватчики, и юмор, и романтическая линия.
Сама идея, что человечеством, как стадом бараном, с древних времён управляют невидимые энергетические существа, явно взрывала мозг довоенному читателю, непривычному к масштабным "мысленным экспериментам" современной НФ.А сегодня открываешь книжку, и с трудом продираешься сквозь корявый язык, и видишь, что персонажи деревянные, и шутки натужные, и любовная линия ощущается как сплошной непрекращающийся фейспалм.
Ситуация в точности как с "Тайной двух океанов" Адамова - все идеи, образы, сюжетные ходы очень зачётные, но написано так плохо и заскорузло, что невозможно читать.При всей личной любви к Эрику Расселлу, данный роман рекомендовать никак не могу.
http://clarkevivo.blogspot.it/2013/04...Ognuno di noi ha fantasticato almeno una volta nella vita sull'eventualità che degli alieni possano girovagare sulla Terra all'insaputa di tutti o di pochi disgraziati.
Nell'immaginario collettivo ha preso piede l'ormai secolare concetto di Ufo, o per meglio dire disco volante, di cui nel web sono presenti migliaia di foto (tutte sfocate) che mostrano navicelle aliene a forma di lampione, lanterna cinese o cappello a bombetta.
Chiunque avrà avuto l'occasione di leggere o ascoltare teorie strampalate sui poteri occulti che governano il mondo.
Poche teorie raggiungono però gli spaventosi livelli di orrore e paranoia presenti in "Schiavi degli invisibili" di Eric Frank Russell, scritto nel lontano 1939 ma che nonostante l'età riesce ancora a sorprendere e affascinare.
First half better than the second--genuinely creepy and subversive.
But then it devolves into the standard Heinlein thing about kicking alien butt.
Also, the witty (and flirty) banter bit is often ridiculous (and irrelevant).
But a basically cool use of Fort...despite how often EFR's lines manage to gobble the scenery; stuff like: "Three bodies lay near the window, their cold faces indelibly stamped with the mark of diabolical fate." And worse...though there is the occasional good line ("The man who jumps in the river wins nothing but everlasting peace").
The writing style is so out of date that I found it a tedious read this time.
The first quarter is a fast moving detective story and reasonably good despite some repetition.
(Can the detective protagonists and his friends figure out why scientists are committing suicide at an alarming rate.) When the story gets past that and the SciFi starts, it gets very wordy with long unnecessary passages of technobable (out of date no less) and later introspection.
I speed read over half the book and almost abandoned it.
The basic SciFi story is actually pretty good, just overwritten by modern standards.
What can I say? I didn't like this book at all. I laboured through it hoping it would get better, but I was disappointed to the end.I suppose I was looking for a funny story like Wasp or Next of Kin, I guess I'll stick with these two of this author.
"Schiavi degli invisibili" è un libro che mescola in maniera alquanto intelligente, la paura del conflitto mondiale e dei vari totalitarismi dell'epoca (era il 1939), il freudismo (i vitoni che ci controllano non visti non è altro che la paura dell'inconscia) ed una sana dose di azione e violenza (cosa che mi alquanto stupito per un libro di sci-fi di questo periodo). Magari il finale è un po' troppo "indelicato" e tipicamente americano, ma visto il resto lo si può perdonare. Un gran bel libro.
Sinister Barrier starts out as it intends (or doesn't intend, but does so anyway) to continue by on the first page claiming to be fiction, but true. Then there's a long disquisition on Fort that ends with a ludicrous "true story" opening that is left hanging in the air. Read more
Non mi piacciono molto i racconti di fantascienza "low technology" come questo: nemici con poteri enormi ma che inspiegabilmente non eliminano l'eroe, una trama lineare, personaggi statici e sempre vittoriosi...
I had high hopes for this -- but it just did not hold up, it almost seems non sensicalsome creatures who live on weird vibration frequency? how is that science?it's not really awful, but just so perfunctory.
Great vintage read. Takes me back to my high school days when paperbacks were cheap. Of course, you have to suspend disbelief and agree to buy into the "futuristic" world postulated by the author, but I think it's still fun.
The concept is very good, but the writing is AWFUL!
This was quite a thriller. Written far more like a fast paced detective novel than a science fiction story (think James Bond with aliens).
2
