https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/735708.The_Naughtiest_Girl_Again
Not quite as good as the first one, for a number of probably nit-picky reasons, but still a pretty good story. They probably should have renamed our protagonist the Angriest Girl for this instalment...
Mais um semestre no colégio Whyteleafe e desta vez a Elizabeth comprometeu-se a ser uma boa menina mas alguém vai-lhe fazer a vida negra, e ela não vai deixar passar isso em branco.
But someone wants to make her miserable, and show everyone the naughty side of her instead of the nice one.At the end Elizabeth succeeds at dealing with all her problems andshe's doing well in school.I chose this book because it looked interesting and because I had itlying around my house but I never read it.
Like when a bully admited his bullying.I would recomand this book to my mom because she likes realistic booksthat you can have fun while reading them.
It s very cooooool tooo!she wants to b good but people wont let her!Read the book to know more!!!
My children love these. I'd missed them as a child and have to say I'm a Mallory Towers girl myself but they both adore these so it has to be 5 stars.
Masih lebih oke seri pertama, meski tetep aja seri kedua ini enjoyable to read 👍🏻. Elizabeth makin dewasa meski tetep masih emosional yang menyeretnya ke beberapa masalah yang diceritakan di buku ini.Agak aneh ama mudahnya Robert untuk curhat saat RB mengenai alasan dia suka menindas yang lebih kecil. Dari sisi usia, jenis kelamin, dan karakternya kayaknya ga cocok aja gitu. Jadi emang buku ini seolah gampang banget menyelesaikan masalah tuh.Cuma yowis lah. Namanya juga buku anak-anak. Pas dibaca jaman kecil kok biasa aja, baru berasa ganjil pas dibaca saat dewasa :p.
Aku pun meluncur ke Goodreads dan jika aku tidak salah pengertian, buku ini merupakan seri kedua dari total 10 seri yang Enid tulis.
Meskipun langsung melompat ke seri kedua namun tetap bisa diikuti dengan baik.
Dan ketika membaca seri kedua ini, aku bisa merasakan ada perkembangan dari karakter tokoh di dalamnya.
Pengembangan itu sepertinya bergerak maju seperti alur yang bergulir di dalam kisah di buku tersebut.Buku ini berkisah tentang Elizabeth yang bersekolah di sekolah asrama Whyteleafe.
Tapi tampaknya sekolah Whyteleafe telah mampu mengubahnya dan dia bertekad mengubah diri menjadi anak baik di semester baru ini.
Buku ini bercerita tentang permusuhan Elizabeth dengan Robert, dan kisah bagaimana Kathleen menjadi sangat membenci Jenny dan Elizabeth tapi kemudian karena suatu kejadian yang sangat mengejutkan dan membahagiakan bagi Kathleen—karena dia mendapat kesempatan untuk berubah dengan bantuan semua temannya di Whyteleafe—Kathleen dapat berubah menjadi gadis periang dengan lesung pipit manis yang muncul saat ia tersenyum.Selain itu juga diceritakan kenapa Robert bersikap nakal pada anak yang lebih kecil.
Di samping karena hatinya yang luluh akan kebaikan kedua Hakim yang adil itu, juga karena dengan sibuk mengurus kuda Robert tak akan punya waktu untuk menakali anak-anak yang lebih kecil.Pelajaran dari buku ini Untuk membuat seorang anak jera tak perlu dengan cara keras atau malah memberikan suatu hukuman yang berat padanya.
Tahun kedua Elizabeth Allen di mulai. Walaupun sudah merubah sikap dari tahun lalu, namun kali ini perjuangannya untuk menahan diri dari amarah akan lebih sulit karena ada anak baru bernama Robert yang begitu senang bersaing dengannya dalam hal apapun.Banyak teman-teman baru Elizabeth di tahun kedua ini, selain Joan, Harry, dan Richard. Persahabatannya dengan John si penggemar berkebun pun semakin membaik, lalu ada Jennifer, murid baru yang lucu, dan juga ada Kathleen yang pendengki dan tentunya akan banyak konflik yang melingkupi tahun kedua si badung ini, termasuk pemilihan pengawas dan kericuhan di Rapat Besar. pokoknya seru, 5 of 5 stars!
Me being a fan of young adult books was not very keen in reading an enid blyton book which was somet
Nggak lagi pengin jadi anak nakal biar dikeluarin dari sekolah, Elizabeth mendapat beberapa masalah karena hot-tempered-nya.
A jolly good read.Honest it was!
Her interactions with the other characters are honest and true and is one of the things I love the most about this book.The plot is so unbelievably simple it's difficult to remember that it wasn't written by a ten-year-old.
We get so many POV changes throughout the book (mostly in the middle of a paragraph!), and while this would normally frustrate me to no end, I found that I could very easily keep up with whose thoughts we were following, because each of these kids had such a different voice.4 out of 5 stars and recommended to everyone who never read this trilogy as a kid.
It's one of those book series that you really just ought to have read.
A second moral tale in the Naughtiest Girl series as Elizabeth and her friends return to Whyteleafe School, based on the progressive Summerhill School, for another term and more life lessons.
Some of the well behaved children still seem rather priggish and the changes in any child with problem behaviour, after it has been challenged, are so miraculous that they seem unreal.
(Which of course they are - if only it were so easy to sort out bad behaviour in real life).
Nevertheless the moral lessons are interesting - covering bullying, false accusations, keeping your temper and facing up - and if necessary owning up - to your fears, faults and mistakes.
This book was as good or even better than the first to me.
While Elizabeth continued to have some problems to resolve, other characters had issues and learned to cope!
I, especially, like how the characters think about their problems and do something to correct their mistakes.
I think that saying sorry all the time is a great lesson for young readers to learn.
It is hard to admit making a mistake and often harder to apologize!!
Something Kathleen said stood out: “It is our own selves that make us lucky or unlucky, it’s our own selves that bring us friendship and kindness...as soon as I changed myself, I changed the things that happened, too!
Elizabeth Allen returns to Whyteleafe wanting to do her best but ends up getting into some trouble again.
There are three new students this time, one a fun and friendly girl but the others a bully and a somewhat spiteful girl.
While EB has had ‘nasty’ students cured in other school stories too, what makes this one different is the fact that the students themselves realise that there are reasons behind such aberrations and if these are addressed the behaviour itself goes away—showing more prominently that no one is as such really ‘bad’.
Now that the naughtiest girl has been broken and has become a part of the horror of this school, it is time to make her a real obedient soul and of course have someone trying to upset the apple cart. The whole premise of the school is hard to take and even harder to believe, Lord of the Flies reveals how this school would actually end up. Anyway this is not one of Blyton's best and the whole school terrifies me more than anything else in this series.
NICE
Elizabeth becoming a good kid is what we all expected. I love how Elizabeth could admit her fault and apologized for it. She is a mature kid now and I love her
very very good
Elisabeth masih anak yang wajar, yang bisa bersikap baik tapi juga bisa nyebelin.. suka lah :)
I really liked this book because every thing that is happening to Elizabeth represents a real life story.
the bully, Robert, wants nothing but bad things to happen to her.
Elizabeth wants to defend the younger students but is impossible because she always gets in trouble because no one ever saw Robert do any thing bad.
Even the little boy who gets bullied by Robert is afraid to tell the truth.
Joan is Elizabeth's best friend and she knows that Elizabeth is saying the truth but she can't witness because she was not with her when Robert was bullying that poor little peter.
Di awal cerita sempat diceritakan sedikit kisah Elizabeth di semester sebelumnya.Ceritanya benar-benar seruuuuuu!
Di buku ini dikisahkan perjuangan Elizabeth Allen yang di semester sebelumnya dijuluki cewe paling badung untuk menjadi anak yang baik.
Pemicu awalnya terlihat sepele, tapi karena Elizabeth anak yang mudah marah, masalah sepele itu lama-lama menjadi besar.
berhasil!Belum selesai masalah dengan Robert, Elizabeth dan sahabatnya Jennifer kembali "diteror" seseorang.
Dan karena satu dan lain hal, Elizabeth langsung menuduh Robert sebagai pelakunya.
Dan dari kisah ini pula, pembaca (terutama orang dewasa seperti saya) bisa belajar mengenai dunia anak-anak.
Sebenarnya mungkin bukan masalah serius, tapi penerjemah beberapa kali menggunakan kata tolol.
The series revolves around one main protagonist: Elizabeth Allen who is shipped off to a co-educational boarding school after one too many pranks on her governess.
This story is the second in the series and picks up what was left of the first book.
She vows to stay out of trouble but when things start to go wrong, her suspicions lie on two new students who have joined her form.Enid Blyton has created mystery, action and tension in a story for children to read and enjoy.
My favourite part about this book were the set-up for the weekly meetings that the school has which is entirely run by students.
Given that my childhood had been spent reading, amongst many, many other books, The Faraway Tree series (in the days when Fanny was not yet Frannie, Dame Slap not yet Dame Snap) and, to a lesser extent, the Famous Five and Secret Seven books, I was rather surprised when I came across this book, the second of what I believe to be a series of four, that had obviously passed me by ...
Ada persaingan dengan Robert yang tak kalah badung, dan permusuhan dengan Kathleen yang tersulut tanpa sengaja.Uniknya adalah betapapun Elizabeth mencoba berbuat baik, ada saja yang tak sesuai rencana.
saya sangat suka melihat "metamorfosis" Elizabeth di buku kedua ini.
terlihat sekali kalau dia anak yang pada dasarnya baik dan teguh pada prinsip.
Elizabeth tidak suka melihat ketidakadilan dan ingin segera menyelesaikannya (yang sayangnya ini sering kali menimbulkan kekacauan).membaca buku ini membuat saya termotivasi untuk selalu berbuat baik.
Saya belajar melalui Elizabeth dan Robert, bahwa mengakui kelebihan orang lain dan turut berbahagia atasnya adalah hal yang sangat penting.
This second go at Enid Blyton was a lot better than the first.
In this book the central character has settled into her new school but still has some problems dealing with her quick temper and impetuosity.
This book also deals with the time old problem of how one tackles bullies.
I also warmed to the fact that it champions the need to find the thing you love and do it to the absolute best of your ability.
All in all it was a much better read than the first book and I would recommend it for anyone young person fighting personal demons and trying to understand how the world works.
Even there she comes to be known as the naughtiest girl in school.
But slowly she blossoms into a wonderful girl (who can be bratty if she wants to be) with slight push from her teachers and a lot of help from her friends.The series led me to romanticize the life at a boarding school (which I later experienced for myself) and taught me a lot of life lessons.
There’s a lot of lessons to be learnt from these pages and I consider this series to be one of the must reads for every child (boy or girl) while growing up.
This book is so funny!
As Elizabeth tries to be good this term, someone else is trying to keep her bad!
This book just will not stop me from giggling!
I have taken this book all around the world from Hong Kong to the Philippines to Finland!
At the moment it is in a really poor condition because it has even been in the water!
I just can't stop reading this, it just pulls you in!
Enid Describes every single little thing with extreme detail just to make sure you would understand the book!
I just want to keep on reading this book over and over again!
masih bercerita tentang Ellizabeth Allen yang pada awalnya sudah berniat untuk tidak menjadi siswa yang nakal lagi. Ia merasa betah di sekolah asrama dan ingin menjadi siswa yang baik. Namun, ternyata semua itu sulit berjalan mulus. Ellizabeth seringkali tidak sabar dan gampang tersulut amarahnya apabila melihat ketidakadilan. Ellizabeth juga seringkali belum mampu berpikir panjang dan bertindak tanpa memikirkan resikonya. Hal yang menarik adalah karena Ellizabeth sebenarnya baik hati dan selalu ingin menegakkan keadilan. Keadilan? Bukankah itu benar-benar nilai yang mulia?
