https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/860566.How_the_Steel_Was_Tempered
Ένα συγκλονιστικό και συγκινητικό έργο από τον Ostrovsky, ο οποίος στην ουσία περιγράφει την ιστορία της Ουκρανίας την εποχή της ρωσικής επανάστασης. Ο τραγικός ήρωας ταυτίζεται με τη ζωή του ίδιου του συγγραφέα, ο οποίος πέθανε μόλις 32 ετών, γράφοντας μέχρι τελευταία στιγμή στο κρεβάτι.
শেষ করতে পারলাম তাহলে!! [বিজয়ীর হাসি] খারাপ কথাবারতা আগে লিখি...বইটা সমপরকে সবচেয়ে পরচলিত পরশংসা হল এটা মঙগলগরহে নিয়ে যাবার জনয সবচেয়ে বেশী ভোট পাওয়া বই। তবে আমি খুব ভাল করেই জানি যে এই বই আমি মঙগল গরহে নিচছি না। একবছর ধরে আসলে বইটা পড়তে থাকলেও এবার শুরু থেকে পাঁচ দিনে পড়লাম। এর জনয নিজেকে রং চা, দুধ-চা, কফি চা, গরম কফি, কোলড কফি, বলযাক কফি সহ নানা ধরণের ঘুষ পরদান করতে হয়েছে। আর নিজেকে ঘুষ পরদানের সুবযবসথা খুব সমভবত মঙগল গরহে থাকবে না। জানি না দোষটা কার, লেখকের না অনুবাদকের, কখনো মনে হয়েছে লেখকে

i read this book years ago and i wasn't able to understand it because of my age, but now is really o
i read this book years ago and i wasn't able to understand it because of my age, but now is really o
I read this book long ago.
I was maybe ten years old.
(30 y ago..?)wow!!!
it was my dad who started reading it.
he read a few pages aloud to me and my sisters.
when Dad was at work, we read a few pages ...
I could not leave it from me, this amazing book.
a year later I saw the movie at a cinema in Tehran.I have strong memories of the book.
things that happens in the book, people and environment descriptions....
still remember some scenes from the book ...
the book is like a part of my childhood.
This book is probably the most famous example of Socialist Realism, which was the only approved writing style of the Stalin era in the Soviet Union.
This book is also famous for being bad.
When I took a Soviet literature class in college, we read another famous bad work of Socialist Realism, Gladkov's "Cement" and we were told by our professor that we should thank him for sparing us from Ostrovsky.
This book is so bad that it is good.
I find it interesting to see how many people on Goodreads have given this book four or five stars and have written reviews saying that they found the book to be good or inspirational.
This is one of those books, that shaped my childhood dreams.Nikolai Ostrovsky is definitely my all time hero ...
It is not your classic page turner, but for me, it was simply the passion of Pavel Korchagin (the protagonist) that drove me through this book. Read the latter 200 pages in one sitting. You may want to feel a little sorry for Pavel by the end but his enthusiasm makes you realize that feeling sorry would be an insult to him.
This is a book by a person who"burnt the candle of his life from both ends." One of the greatest biography written in a novel form. I read this book in English, Hindi and Marathi.
কলাস সেভেন থেকে নাইন, এর মধযে কোন এক সময় পড়েছিলাম ইসপাত। মূল বই নয়, অনুবাদ ছিল সেটা। তাও কম করে হলেও দুই যুগ আগের কথা। বিপলবী সংগরাময় জীবন সমপরকে সব চাইতে সপষট ধারনা তৈরি হয়েছি এর পরেই। তারপর এমন ঝোক তৈরি হল যে রুশ বিপলব সংকরানত যা পেতাম তাই গরোগরাসে গিলতাম। নিজেকে অনেক সুখী মনে হয় আমার ছোটবেলা নীলসাদা আর কমপিউটার এর সকরিনের সামনে না হয়ে কেটেছে এমন কিছু অসাধারণ রচনার মাঝে বুদ হয়ে।
ক্লাস সেভেন থেকে নাইন, এর মধ্যে কোন এক সময় পড়েছিলাম ইস্পাত। মূল বই নয়, অনুবাদ ছিল সেটা। তাও কম করে হলেও দুই যুগ আগের কথা। বিপ্লবী সংগ্রাময় জীবন সম্পর্কে সব চাইতে স্পষ্ট ধারনা তৈরি হয়েছি এর পরেই। তারপর এমন ঝোক তৈরি হল যে রুশ বিপ্লব সংক্রান্ত যা পেতাম তাই গ্রোগ্রাসে গিলতাম। নিজেকে অনেক সুখী মনে হয় আমার ছোটবেলা নীলসাদা আর কম্পিউটার এর স্ক্রিনের সামনে না হয়ে কেটেছে এমন কিছু অসাধারণ রচনার মাঝে বুদ হয়ে।
Yet another merde of propaganda, making heroes out of the idiots and idiots out of the readers.No need to mention that this trite tale of heroic deeds of late blind cretin Pavka Korchagin can excite only a very simple proletarian mind that ready to dash for some vague idea, lusting to "expropriate expropriated" and enthrone mediocrity at the global level.
Cuốn sách nổi tiếng, và trong trí nhớ của mình thì hồi bé có từng xem 1 series trên TV, rất lôi cuốn và cảm động.Nhưng cuốn sách này thì dở tệ.Cuốn sách được chia làm 2 phần: phần 1 nói về tuổi thơ của Paven, những bất công mà Paven và những người lao động Nga phải gánh chịu, cho tới những ngày cách mạng tháng Mười nổ ra, và Paven và những thanh thiếu niên đã đi theo cách mạng như nào; phần 2 nói về những năm tháng đầu cách mạng, tôi chưa đọc hết phần này.Vậy hãy nói về phần 1.
Chắc chỉ có tới Nga tôi mới biết thực hư hehe); nhưng với thiếu niên Paven, mọi bất hòa đều được cậu ta muốn giải quyết bằng bạo lực.
think of inspiration and this is one of few books that come to my mind. a very good description of building of socialist russia and the spirit behind it. but moreover this also entails a great autobiographical adventurous journey of the author. it has so many incidents that we could only wish for, right from the childhood to the youth of the author. more importantly it is a story of endless energy, strength, and spirit to achieve something dear to ones heart. it is story which teaches you how the odds are to be won and move on......

Жаль, что на сайте нет половинных отметок, рука бы не дрогнула поставить произведению три с половиной балла, поскольку 4 - оценка для полюбившейся книги, а эту историю я перечитывать не возьмусь.
Люди крайне энергичны, в их руках спорится любое дело, но в них словно нет души, они мало, о чем переживают, мало, в чем сомневаются, даже любят они не по-настоящему, их истории напоминают браки по расчету: ты полезна мне, я полезен тебе, будем же вместе жить.
И саму идею полного отказа от личного ради общественного я поддержать не могу, слишком она мне представляется радикальной (называйте меня мещанкой, если угодно).Вывод предсказуем: трудно влюбиться в книгу, если не получается ассоциировать себя с кем-то из персонажей.
The person's life should be spent this way: When he looks back, he does not regret for wasted years, not because of mediocrity and shame —the quote from the book How the steel was tempered.
Speaking of Paul, my admiration can not help that he was a hero, he is a stubborn man when he had to withdraw from the battlefield wounded occasion, he still kept trying to contribute in the rear.
So these just make me think about sometimes when you feel like you will fail and just keep telling you “ you can do it and don’t give up, you close to the succeed.”
I am very disappointed by this book and believe that it became so famous because of its Soviet propaganda. It may be somewhat interesting from historical point of view, but if you want to read about revolution in Russia, there are definitely better historical and fiction books on the topic. "How the Steel Was Tempered" doesn't have much value as a work of art, so I would recommend to save your time and read something else.
کار باید غذای قلب من باشد،تا من خود را در سراشیب سقوط احساس نکنم.
Hiện thân của tác giả, lí tưởng của tác giả, sự cống hiến của tác giả đều nằm trong nhân vật trung tâm Pavel- chiến sĩ Soviet thiếu niên .
Cuộc sống của con người vô sản này, không có của cải nhưng anh có những điều lớn lao hơn, anh có 1 gia đình yêu thương mình, có một người con gái yêu anh da diết, có một lí tưởng sống trường tồn.
Ngoài ra, chiến tranh ác liệt quá.
Đọc Thép đã tôi thế đấy là thấy mình cần tìm một con đường cho bản thân, đừng ai ngại điều gì, giác ngộ!
Обов'язкова книга у школі в радянські часи. Перенасичена ідеологічними мотивами. Дає певну уяву про формування типажу радянського героя, нещадного до ворогів. Можна почерпнути певні відомості про організацію діяльності післяреволюційних радянських органів.
Bad literature, pure propaganda piece. Chả hiểu sao nó lại có thể khiến nhiều thế hệ say mê, thần tượng cái anh cuồng tín và dở người đấy?
nếu so sánh với chiến tranh Việt nam thì thực sự bản thân tôi thấy tác phẩm không quá nổi bật. có lẽ cũng bởi vì những ám ảnh khi tôi đọc xong cuốn " tuổi thơ dữ dội" trước nhưng nói chung sách cũng nói nhiều ý chí chiến đấu, vượt lên mọi khó khăn rồi những khó khăn sự hy sinh của những chiến sĩ Nga dũng cảm dưới sự lãnh đạo của đảng cộng sản, dưới lá cờ của tổ quốc
Bữa mình mua cuốn sách này, bác chủ nói: "Đây từng là cuốn sách gối đầu giường của bác, giờ thanh niên không còn đọc những thể loại truyện này nữa.
Chẳng biết có phải phút đó, muốn chứng minh với bác rằng không phải vậy đâu bác, còn những đứa như cháu chưa từng ngoảnh mặt với lịch sử mà mua quyển sách về.
Một quyển sách khó nhằn, khá hại não có nhiều khi dở ra đọc vài trang đã thấy buồn ngủ nhưng vẫn không muốn đặt xuống.
The book speaks a strong and brave hero, Paul till golden.Read the steel is you this book, I realized that a person's life is for his perseverance has a great influence on.
I admire Paul, till golden bravery, indomitable spirit.
Paul, till golden shadow always in my mind, and encourage me to emerge as a strong like him, brave man.We are living in peace, in a little difficulty in life, as long as nothing bravely, etc.
Paul, till golden spirit, I never learn.
I'm not sure that Ostrovsky's semi-autobiographical novel of a young man growing up in Ukraine through the Russian Revolution, and subsequent civil war between the Whites and Red Army, has aged well.
As a child my mother read this to me and my brother and I remembered it as more of a ripping yarn than it actually is.The first part tells the story of our hero, young Pavel's town through the occupation by first the Germans, then the Bolsheviks, the White army of Ukrainians and Poles, then the Bolsheviks again.
It is about a person only in the revolution to defeat the enemy in the difficulties and hardships can overcome their own,only in their pursuit and the motherland,the people's interests linked together,will create a miracle,only the growth of the iron soldier.I think the story line is .I think the author-Nikolai Dostoevsky did pretty well on this book.For example,this novel was written by his true life,and the book made readers know what his true life looked life.And the author teach everybody how to make ourselves be stronger and more tough.The readers can learn many things from his book,because he was not only telling his life to readers ,but also teach the attitude of facing hard life.
In doing so, they miss the main gist of the entire novel: what makes an average person into a giant?Pavel Korchagin begins a life of struggle working in a kitchen with abusive employers during the time of Tsar.
As the story progresses, Pavel endures many trials in life: on the battlefield against human enemies, in the forests against nature's forces, and in his own personal life.
He is not perfect; in fact, his self-reflection and inner struggles are part of what build him into a stronger person.
Ostrovski'nin otobiyografik özellik taşıyan bu romanı Pavel Korçagin adında Ukraynalı bir gencin devrim sürecine dahil oluşu üzerinden inancın ve başarmanın hikayesini anlatıyor.
Mikro anlamda devrim sürecinin en küçük kasabalarda nasıl yaşandığını, sıradan insanları nasıl etkilediğini, kaosun içinden yükselen devrimi ona inanan insanların, halkın gerçekleştirdiğini bu kadar açık ve net bir şekilde anlatması bence takdire şayan.Kitapta Pavka'nın sıradan yaşantısını okurken onun gözünden dönemin haksızlıkları, kaos ve Çar'ın adaletsizliklerini görüyoruz.
Henüz çok genç sayılabilecek bir yaşta hastalıklara maruz kalan Pavka'nın direnci ve üretme çabası, Bolşeviklerin birlik duygusu ile devrimin nasıl gerçekleştirildiği anlatılmış.
Sevmemek ve hayran kalmamak mümkün değil, mücadeleye inanan herkesin okuması gereken bir eser Pavel Korçagin'in hikayesi.

This one is written by a fanatic. The author is so obsessed with his dogmas that he seems religious rather than political, and yet it's politics he is dedicating his life to. The communism as he understands and practices it.So it's a great book. I dislike the main character and most of the moral principles in the book seem to be from medieval times, but it has strength and the book is enjoyable to read. Fanatics do have power in their words. Belief is the heart of life and sometimes it may not be easy to keep the head dominating.
A powerful and thumping testimony of the hailed Bolshevik Revolution of Soviet Union and I think this is one of the most knowingly written novel regarding this event. Pavel Korchagin earns our sympathy as a tragic hero but his life of relentless works towards righteousness teaches us profoundly to remain in the path of justness and integrity.Sure, his ending is pathetic but the closing of the novel gives us a glimpse of hope. Long live the comrades and the revolution. Proud to complete the novel.The five stars are worth it.
