https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/599588.Pavane
Convincing, engrossing, and as exactingly built as the finest steam engine.I was recommended this book after reading Martin Amis’ The Alteration, a very solid alt-history novel set in a modern Britain still under Catholic rule, in a world where Martin Luther became Pope instead of setting off the Protestant revolution.
While the the Alteration’s strength is its sly humor, Pavane’s is its incredibly convincing setting, demonstrated across several different narratives that show us life under the heavy hand of the Catholic Church.Roberts goes in for exhaustive detail at times, but done in a way that engrosses rather than bores, painting a detailed and fascinating picture of a world stymied by religion and its attendant power structures, a Britain where a popish ‘Petroleum Veto’ has gimped the adoption of combustion engines, where steam power is still used widely and electricity distrusted.
The novel is set in England during the late 20th Century and a brief prologue sets up the premise: in 1588, Queen Elizabeth is assassinated; the Spanish Armada defeats the British, and the course of history for Europe and the New World changes.
The Protestant religion is crushed and the Catholic Church of the Spanish Inquisition becomes the dominant religion for most of the world.Roberts does a good job in creating his fun house mirror vision of the 20th Century.
There is a strong sense that each of the characters in the novel is playing a part in history as the story unfolds:“It’s like a … dance somehow, a minuet or a pavane.
Pavane: Six glimpses of an alternate England dominated by the ChurchPavane (1968), by Keith Roberts, is a book I’ve long wanted to read, a collection of loosely-linked stories set in an alternate England where Queen Elizabeth was assassinated and Philip II won the throne of England.
The stories begin in 1968 (when the book was published), but this England does not resemble our world much because the Church is opposed to most forms of technology, so English society still resembles medieval times, with castles, small villages, monasteries, steam-powered engines that do not run on tracks, and semaphores (telegraphs) are the only form of long-distance communications.
Queen Elizabeth is assassinated, the Spanish armada invades England, and Catholics rule Europe, keeping sciences at a relative standstill.
Set in a 20th century England of this time line ruled by superstition, wild animals, bandits, smugglers, and inquisitions.
Rather than dwell on the “what if” of this scenario Roberts divides this book into six stories that explores the desires, loneliness, petty lives, pointless deaths, incoherent rage, and revolutions of his characters.
You could dwell for weeks in the nooks and crannies of this book; it’s a whole breathing world in there.
Review of PavaneBeautifully Written Fantasy Stories which Left Me a Bit Cold It seems like today's steampunk movement (including writers like China Mieville) owes a lot to Keith Roberts.
Roberts' book, "Pavane", published in 1968, is a group of loosely connected sf/fantasy stories/novellas that take place in Britain mostly around 1968 (although one occurs about twenty years later).
Jesse Strange, a lonely haulier (a guy who hauls goods on one of the steam trains mentioned above), courts a woman and runs into an old college buddy.
(hide spoiler)]In the fifth measure "Lords and Ladies", a young woman attends the deathbed of Jesse Strange from the first story, her uncle.
The notion of a pavane serves as a symbol for the passing of time/history; the structure of the book also reflects a slow, graceful movement toward the end.Set in Britain, the story opens in 1968.
The working classes are not allowed to travel much; this is a privilege for the wealthier.The first story is "The Lady Margaret," in which the reader meets the Strange family.
Do NOT miss this part...it is a bit of a twist ending.This book is so well written that I could not stop reading it, and after you've read it through once, things sort of begin to come together for you.
It is an absolutely wonderful book and should not be missed.read: January 2006
I first read this about twenty years ago. I enjoyed it even more at this second reading. It is an alternative history that really does build a convincing world. A great story full of adventures and conflict.
I can’t really elaborate without revealing too much, though…To some the years that passed were years of fulfillment, of the final flowering of God’s Design; to others they were a new Dark Age, haunted by things dead and others best forgotten; bears and catamounts, dire wolves and Fairies…The rage of nations was like the anger of the sea, not to be contained with straws… "It’s like a … dance somehow, a minuet or a pavane.
Then I think… it’s all totally pointless, it would make just as much sense backwards as forwards…"(view spoiler)["He saw clearly, rising about him on the hills, the buildings of that new time, the factories and hospitals, power stations and laboratories.
He saw the machines flying above the land, skimming like bubbles on the surface of the sea.
Some random highlights from this rather fine parallel world novel:- Semaphore stations can operate in full duplex mode, carrying messages simultaneously in both directions.- When issuing an ultimatum, it's unwise to stand directly in front of a loaded cannon.- Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition.
Either way, it leaves the reader scratching his head and wishing Roberts had just stopped after the last story.Overall, Pavane is a beautifully written book with well-developed characters, skillful use of language, and vivid imagery — dark brooding castles, hulking gothic churches, powerful steam engines, lines of clacking semaphores, horrid tortures at the hands of the Inquisition.
A collection of stories set in the same universe that are brought together and presented as a novel.Second, it's an alternate history.
Also difficult are my mixed feelings about the presentation of the Catholic Church, which is not really the Catholic Church at all.
The world is very different under its stifling power, the most obvious thing being that the Church has prevented the use of many technological advances.
The remnant of the Inquisition (called the Court of Spiritual Welfare) is present, too.Yet the 20th century feudal world presented is a fascinating setting, and the stories are very moving, like I said.
An exquisitely crafted alternate history of England. A set of six linked stories set up as a dance,or pavane, if you will. Not anything really profound but a delight in itself as a work of fiction. Deliciously written and craftily plotted to a most satisfying ending. I'm not a big alternate history fan but throughly enjoyed this.Roberts takes some pretty mighty swings at the Romish church and his main message may be how religion keeps progressive humanity back with a superstitious spear of fear and intimidation.
Lady Eleanor, with the sympathetic help of the Seneschal John Faulkner, initiates the Revolt of the Castles — she is not her mother’s daughter (or her grandmother’s granddaughter) for nothing when it comes to defying authority and flying in the face of apparent reasons.Pavane really picks up with these two tales, developing links between two families and the wider world that was hinted at in the previous stories.
This alternate history is a marvellous melding of medieval, Renaissance, Victorian and modern ways of thinking, living and technology; and behind it all are mysteries — the roles of the Signallers, their relationship to the Fairies or People of the Heath, the genetic heritage of Eleanor and John Faulkner, the visions of the Old Ones.
Consists of several related short stories set in a radically different 20th Century England (and world) under the thumb of the all powerful Roman Catholic Church.
Rather than thrilling to the courage of those few Englishmen who finally stand up against the church and exploring the consequences of those actions, I'm left in a long drag of what my college English teacher referred to as "falling action." The coda helps a bit, but "tells more than shows."Roberts' world is terrifically original, but some of the characters (like the stories) never really caught my attention or imagination, let alone my empathy.
The story is made up of 6 sequential short stories, each building a part of this alternate world, each introducing a well drawn sympathetic character, each ending in a vague, almost tentative resolution.The book uses the motif of the dance, the Pavane of the title, to introduce a parade of dancers.
They were beautifully and poignantly drawn, but gone like mayflies, subsumed in the great dance of time.
It was England.
A mythic England that never has and never will exist, which the author explores as though he were tracing the hills and valleys of his lover's body.
An ancient celtic cult with the sign of the cancer plays a mysterious role.Short stories:The Lady Margaret: The rise of a lonely steam haulier.
Failing in his love for the girl that inspired naming his steam engine "Lady Margaret", he's remorselessly compensating this failure with entrepreneurial assertiveness, not sparing the life of a former friend who has turned brigand.The Signaller: A young boy is accepted as apprentice semaphore operator.
The implications of holding back known technology, the concept of semaphore communication with the related guild and the operators, the role of the Catholic Church and the inquisition as its outgrowth.
Technology has stagnated, with discoveries like electric power outlawed by the Church, leaving the book effectively proto-steampunk.
Roberts never reveals all of this world’s secrets and does not go overboard explaining the complexities or full history, leaving the reader to savor every morsel and ponder its significance.
Even the elements of religion and superstition have an air of mystery about them—several events are implied to be fantastical/metaphysical, but may be simply unexplained everyday phenomenon.Pavane takes its name from the processional dance from Renaissance-era Europe, and much like that dance the novel is complex, obscure, and stately, a slow but calculated read with a dark and mysterious undertone.
A group of somewhat vaguely connected stories set in contemporary Dorset, only not as we know it because England is a mere vassel state of Rome (along with the rest of the world).
Although the coda at the end is interesting as it reveals something that flips your preconceptions on their head, causing you to consider what has happened in a different light.Overall I found the stories too meandering and fragmented to be able to enjoy the book as much as I would have liked and was left somewhat disappointed and underwhelmed.
I don't understand.This book's premise is that Elizabeth I died early and therefore the Elizabethean age never happened and the history of the world changed dramatically.
Okay!
Except....later a character references a "minor Elizabethean" poet, and nylons appear in a world that has very little post-Renaissance technological progress, and I still don't understand what the hell the locos are (road trains?
except...without an internal combustion engine?), and THEN SUDDENLY THERE ARE FAIRIES and the Church has actually been a power for good all this time and omg wtf I quit.Also the languages don't work.
Elizabeth's early death would not make Norman French the language of the English nobility again, okay?
Read for the Science Fiction Masterworks Book Club.Who's this Keith Roberts guy?
Neil Gaiman is quoted as saying that he read of the stories in Pavane as a child, and it "scarred him." Well, that's quite the list of recommendations!
And it was on my SF Masterworks list that I have resolved to read at a rate of one a month until they're finished.
Just - wow!I understand this is one of the seminal works of alternate history.
Roberts traces the implications of this alternate history by relating it through multiple viewpoint characters in different stories, all of which are interconnected.It's fascinating and involving!
Ed Kuepper played a live gig that I attended recently and I was surprised to hear him tell his audience that the song was about a very “poetical” book he had read called Pavane by Keith Roberts.
With that I had to read this book.To give Ed Kuepper his due his use of the word “Poetical” was a good choice.
The book itself gets its title, in my opinion, from a beautiful philosophical conversation in the final chapter, or Measure as the author calls them, between two of the characters.
I first encountered this book in college where, haunting the oddly stocked shelves of the library, I stumbled across the Gollancz version: no blurb, no explanation, just a bright yellow dust jacket with the title, author and the symbol of the Crab people in brick red on the cover.
Finally had time to read it, and...
Also, with time and experience, certain things stand out, such as Roberts' discomfort with writing adolescent women and, worse, the odd gaps in logic and story-telling.
This is the world of Pavane, a book of six more-or-less connected short stories (called "measures", in the dance metaphor of the title) followed by an epilogue, or "coda".
Pavane is remarkable not for the carefully worked-out details that characterize many alternate histories, but rather for its intensely visual style and hauntingly dark mood.
Roberts started his career as an illustrator, and that shows in passages like this (from the first story, "Lady Margaret"):"At three in the afternoon the engine sheds were already gloomy with the coming night.
The massive road wheels stood in pools of shadow."With passages like this, Roberts sets the dark, grim tone that pervades the book.
All the “Measures’ could probably stand alone as short stories as many reviewers have mentioned, but they are all connected and, like the dance, are much more beautiful and meaningful if experienced together and in order.I listened to the Audible Audiobook (read beautifully by Steven Crossley), but I often referred to my Kindle edition just so I could re-read an especially lyrical passage.
She kept the stone a long while after that; and when more time had passed and she knew the whispering and piping were only echoes of her blood she didn’t care because she’d still heard what she heard, the sound of trapped eternities.”Most of the movements are comprised of sadness and longing, but the overall story is still beautiful and hopeful – like a song played in a minor key.
I am often surprised in looking back at now-vintage SF in just how...well, strange it can be.
Experimental.
Literary.
I'd put Keith Roberts in that category.
This is a book of loosely connected stories set in an England (and a world) that never experienced the Reformation.
Roberts does not feel compelled to tell us EVERYTHING about this world.
But that takes nothing away from the journeys that the reader has enjoyed; the musings on religion and history and science and violence; the strange familiarity (or familiar strangeness) of the world we glimpse in the pages.
Who knew that an alternate history could be written with such beautiful prose?
This book has a prologue, six loosely connected stories called measures, and a coda, which could be called an epilogue.
This book imagines what the UK (and to a degree, the rest of the world) might have been like if Queen Elizabeth I died young.
Imagine the Anglicanism thwarted.
Imagine the Roman Catholic Church controlling the world and keeping progress thwarted.
This book will help you do that.This is a beautifully written book that demands close attention to be able to pick up many of the connections between the stories.
O sentimento de liberdade de uma jovem é o tema da quinta história e de novo a família Strange preenche os capítulos seguintes até ao final do livro.As personagens são muito humanas, com as suas fragilidades, aspirações, hesitações, dando-nos conta de quão frágil é o ser humano.As histórias podem ser lidas de forma quase independente, ilustrando momentos da vida neste mundo controlado pela igreja.
I thoroughly enjoyed rereading this genre classic.Written in 1968, it depicts a modern-day Britain under the rule of the Catholic Church.
This is a Britain of steam engines, giant semaphore stations, and hand-crafted printing presses.
However, the whole contains a thread of gradual change, growing with each story and culminating in profound alteration.The language is absolutely gorgeous; descriptive, picturesque, conveying feeling and emotion, and successfully forming each character's own world.
The story that stays with me most is the second one, "The Signaller", probably because I read it years and years ago in an anthology.
It’s sad and serious, and compassionate about its characters in just the right way.The book comprises six interlocking stories of young people coming of age.
Rather than rational rule by capital and technology, Church and class and guild are the key powers.
To shape a Catholic thought, perhaps the urge to evil comes not from modernity but from within man.
For a book primarily concerned with its characters – and its characters’ hearts at that – the answer is a negative.As everyone says, the Coda is unnecessary, and a discordant note given what comes before.
Here’s a short one: “On either side of the knoll the land stretched in long, speckled sweeps, paling in the frost smoke until the outlines of distant hills blended with the curdled milk of the sky.” The jazz musician, Ahmad Jamal, wrote a Pavane for his 1989 album, Poinciana, and it would be tempting to play that while reading this book.
It is presented in “Measures,” a prologue, six thematically related short stories, and a coda that ties the loose ends together into a cogent whole which describe the stately dance of church and state holding an artificially restrained society back so it would not disintegrate but regenerate when the people reach a point where their consciousness matches their potential for evil in technology.
