https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/537375.The_Endurance
As a big fan of Alfred Lansing's version of the story, I had to read this one too. It is a worthy complement to Lansing's "Endurance" and contains a great deal more detail on some situations, interpersonal relations and the psychological impact on the men who went through this incredible experience - all stuff that Lansing tactfully omits. Added to that, there are many more of Frank Hurley's dazzling photographs. I would recommend reading this in addition to Lansing's work.
I recommend this book to all lovers of survival, adventure and overcoming stories where reality sometimes is even superior to fiction.Spanish version:Amo las historias de superación, aventuras y de viaje no puedo evitar recomendaros este maravilloso relato de Caroline Alexander.
Es un relato trepidante, lleno de aventuras en la que como una caja de pandora salen a flote todas las emociones humanas, en este caso incluso la esperanza.
Recomiendo este libro a todos los amantes de los relatos de supervivencia, de aventuras y de superación en los que la realidad a veces, supera incluso la ficción.
Este en particular trata la historia de SIR Shackleton, un explorador polar, obsesionado por cumplir una meta casi imposible (para la época, me refiero a principios del siglo veinte, poco antes de la Primera Guerra Mundial), la Expedición Imperial Transantártica, con la cual pretendía atravesar el continente antártico.
(hide spoiler)]Absolutamente fascinante, sobre todo si son fanáticos de historias verdaderas que pasaron hace siglos (un siglo nomás, en este caso) y de las cuales todavía quedan retazos para analizar, fotos o evidencias a ver y leer, voces, testimonios, piezas a armar, etc.Excelente expedición hacia el fondo del asunto; de la recuperación del pasado, de las vivencias de un grupo de hombres que no se dejaron vencer por el frío ni el hambre.5/5["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>["br"]>
(Only the godforsaken tundra I explore is urban U.S)I don't want to hear any of your goddimmed complaints until you've been stranded on South Georgia Island living in wet clothing on a diet of seal, penguin then penguin and seal, looking forward to a period of immobilty so that nothing of your nerves picks up information of icy damp material touching raw, chafed, bruised skin...And you know, all of that and they still held their 'spirits'.
And then you hear people bitching about their feet hurt cause the impossible shoes they chose to wear to lap the mall are chafing the pedicure.
ES also said, "Optimism is true moral courage," and while that might sound a bit grandiose to some ears, his dogged belief in it is probably what kept the crew alive.
Considering again ES's quote about the inexorable power of ice, I can't help but ask, "If you knew that coming in, what did you think your odds were of surviving?" While S's belief in optimism as moral courage is probably what saved his crew, is it not also the attitude that put them at risk in the first place, and to what end?
As a big fan of Alfred Lansing's 1959 story, "Endurance," I was leery of another version, but I was drawn into this one because #1: my library doesn't have too many audio books to choose from, and #2: I was sucked in by the promise of new material from previously unavailable sources.
Their ship freezes solid in the pack-ice before they can even begin the overland portion of the expedition.
As the leader of a crew of 27 men, he sings (badly) in their sing-alongs, serves them tea in their tents, stands watch during their most desperate hours, and ultimately carries all of them to safety.Added features in this edition include photographs taken by expedition member Frank Hurley (I missed those on audio).
The exhibition catalog for the exhibit at the American Museum of Natural History is more than a coffee-table book, this beautifully photo illustrated history of the Endurance expedition is a must read/must see for anyone interested in the history of polar exploration.
Alexander, who writes so ably and knowledgeably about polar exploration also recently penned The Race to the South Pole in National Geographic's Sept 2011 issue.
Illustrations and photos like this one by Herbert Ponting below from National Geographic collection, as well as many others from the National Library of Norway's Picture Collection & The Royal Geographical Society help Alexander bring the article's age of exploration back to life for today's readers:Photograph by Herbert Ponting, National Geographic StockMore about this photo at National Geographic
Frank Worsley's first-hand account of the expedition & was thoroughly fascinated by his telling of this amazing & actually horrifying ordeal in the Antarctic.
:) The photos are reproduced exceptionally clear with good info about them & complementing these extraordinary photos, Alexander has integrated not only her well researched narrative but many comments gleaned from the diaries kept by some of the men on this harrowing expedition, making this a fine report.
In fact, for an excellent overview of Shakleton's Antarctic Expedition this is the place to begin.
Alexander's comes off to me as a report, whereas in Worsley's telling you EXPERIENCE the Antarctic!
Lo confieso, tengo debilidad por estos libros mezcla de aventuras, viajes extraordinarios y ciencia. Es el tercero o cuarto que leo sobre las exploraciones polares y no me canso: paso frío con los expedicionarios, oigo rugir las tormentas sobre los mares o las planicies heladas, saboreo la carne de pingüino y la grasa de foca, me refugio en débiles tiendas o cabañas de madera... y aún me quedan ganas de seguir leyendo sobre estos temas. No hay literatura que me apasione más que la de las grandes exploraciones y descubrimientos de los dos últimos siglos. Lo recomiendo absolutamente :)
Although my favorite book on Shackleton's expedition is Alfred Lansing's account, this is also an excellent version.
Focusing on the diverse members of the crew, Alexander creates vivid portraits of each man, revealing the camaraderie and toughness that undoubtedly contributed to their survival.
The main narrative is interspersed with extracts from the crew's journals, and there is of course a portrayal of Shackleton himself, a truly gifted leader.
As the author noted, "At the core of Shackleton's gift for leadership in crisis was...the fact that he elicited from his men strength and endurance they had never imagined they possessed; he ennobled them."
I read Lansing's book on this same topic and I was hooked on the story. While this story didn't go into as many details as Lansing's book, it did provide a glimpse into the relationships and thoughts of many of the men. The author's dependence on diaries really gave a the reader a clue as to how everyone felt as they struggled to survive. I also like how the photographs were strewn throughout the book and humanized a lot of the men. A great retelling of an an amazing adventure!
There have been a lot of books on the Shackleton expedition - including Alfred Lansing's 1959 classic Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage - but this is an absolutely outstanding addition to that list, for at least two excellent reasons.
But otherwise, for anyone with even passing interest in classic adventure stories, this is just an insanely good book - can not over-recommend!UPDATE: There is also an EXCELLENT 2000 documentary (95% on Rotten Tomatoes) based on this book and narrated by Liam Neeson, which features much of the film footage shot by Hurley as well as a number of additional photos.
Endurance is certainly the word that should be used to describe the way Shackleton and his men kept going in the most difficult of conditions.He and a crew of 27 set sail in the ship 'Endurance' in August 1914 bound for the South Atlantic with the intention of being the first men to cross Antartica.
After many difficulties the rescue was successful and everyone was saved.Caroline Alexander follows the remarkable tale up with pen pictures of each of the men and what happened to them after this adventure, which all through makes enthralling reading.
It was lovingly crafted and the publisher did not cut corners, particularly on the excellent grade paper.
If Indiana Jones was real, he would have learned his trade of Sir Earnest Shackleton.It's a little publicized fact that a trio of Royal Marines, fully equipped with the best gear the late 20th Century could produce, and in prime shape, attempted the same crossing of Elephant Island that Shackleton's trio made so long ago, with only ordinary clothes on their backs, and nails from the Endurance's sides pressed through their thin soled shoes to give them extra traction on the snow.
All this after having made their way by open boat in a horrific ocean crossing to the island after their ship, The Endurance, was slowly and inexorably crushed by the shifting pack ice of the Antarctic Ocean.
Forced to abandon ship, Shackleton and his men had lived in tents on the great ice floes through the winter before finally taking to small open boats when the ice began breaking up (literally under their feet) in the spring.
The strangest and most stunning are of The Endurance locked in the ice.
her story started before the ship set sail and ended long after the men were rescued - telling what happened to each man, individually, for the remainder of their lives.
i also loved how many photos were included, as they gave me more of a feel for the perspective that these were real men going through a real experience.
that this is more than just a story, it was part of history.to echo from my alfred lansing review - as for shackleton, i think he was a very fool-hardy man to have ignored the obvious warnings and gotten them into the mess in the first place.
Saw this exhibit at the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem when the book came out. The exhibit had many of the Frank Hurley photographs from the book along with artifacts, actual film, explanations etc. This was a remarkable exhibition and one to remember when we think we have had a bad day....A great choice for adventuresome, inquisitive teenagers 14 years or older, or younger depending on their maturity. There are some gruesome images (starvation, eating seal meat etc) And, they are real, unlike video games and horror movies.
The story is amazing. It's miraculous that anyone survived the crazy-extreme conditions these men faced, but the entire crew of the Endurance lived to tell the tale. What I enjoyed even more than the text were the beautiful black and white photos taken by a photographer on board, Frank Hurley. Miraculous too that these survived, considering everything they went through. Gorgeous, dramatic shots of the ship amidst the snow and ice floes, icy, stark, and in contrast, wonderfully warm portraits of the men -- and dogs. A stunning record of this experience.
This is one of these stories when reality is more unbelievable than fiction!
Numerous books have been written about the expedition, including Shackleton’s own South, and Edward Lansing’s Endurance: Shackleton’s Incredible Voyage.Caroline Alexander is a deft storyteller, efficiently and seamlessly merging excerpts from crew members’ diaries with photographs and independent research.
The story is, too, one of profound individual and shared loss: the destruction of the ship, Endurance, the abandonment of the intended goal, and the elimination of the final shreds of human comfort.
At the outset, the individual, affluent English explorers gleaned tremendous public attention and support; the advent of World War I re-defined heroism as military members, serving as a force of benevolence overseas.
I read this book years ago before I ever joined Goodreads.
I had worked several years in the Yukon and later a variety of assignmnets in the High Arctic including the Beaufort Sea. I was in no way an adventurer like Shackleton but my expereince in the high latitudes gave me a real appreciation of the extremes of Earth.
And the beauty too.
If you're ever going to buy one book about polar exploration I think this is the one.
Not only is Caroline Alexander's text beautiful be the photos are just stunning.
There is something about the black and white photos taken in this mysterious light that make each pic a gem.
The greater is Alfred Lansing's Endurance:Shackleton's Incredible Voyage.The story is that Shackleton set out in a wooden ship to explore Antarctica, partly because the races to the North and South pole had been so successful in terms of fame, glory and eventually some money.
Shackleton, the navigator and perhaps two others finally set sail in a long boat across ice filled seas to try to sail and row to a tiny island some 400 miles distant where there was a whaling station.
I admit I don't read many true life adventure stories, but Shackleton's expedition is one worth becoming enthralled by, by either author.
Caroline Alexander has written a superb, well-researched and absolutely gripping account of the journey and the subsequent epic survival of all the men against all odds once the ship sinks deep in the Weddel sea.
Shackeleton shows extraordinary leadership and courage in attempting an impossible 800-mile journey in the roughest oceans on a 22-foot boat to reach South Georgia island with five of his fellow men.
Once safe, they go back to Elephant island to rescue the remainder of the crew.The book reads like a thriller, in the mold of 'The Day of the Jackal'.
Caroline Alexander shows great skills in bringing the events alive after almost 85 years.
His team never made it to land because of the pack ice that built up around the coast.
Their boat, the Endurance, became frozen into the ice with nowhere to go.
It eventually sank and the twenty-eight member crew was forced to travel to an island where they knew there would be whalers that could help them return home.
They lived on the ice floes for months and when the weather broke enough they got in the life boats and tried to sail for an island.
They made it to Elephant Island where there are no people so a crew of six set out to reach a whaling station.
As I read the account, I felt humbled by the thought that I would never have survived the ordeal; indeed, with the increased pulse rate and nervous anxiety I experienced by simply reading of the trials and tribulations of the crew bringing me to about the limit of my endurance, what would I have done had I actually been a member of that historic and famous ship so appropriately named "The Endurance?"This is a great read with photographs of the event heightening the reader's feeling of being a part of the expedition.
I actually started reading a different version of this adventure - Endurance by Alfred Lansing - but switched to this version about the time the ship started to sink.
I prefer Caroline Alexander's writing style (and more modern English) over Lansing's.
Plus she included more pictures.Five stars for the incredible story!
." The Endurance men were made of something much stronger than me.
I am in awe of the men's resourcefulness, their will to carry on day after day, their ability to navigate with maps and rare sightings of the sun.
For some reason, I find myself obsessed with books about Antarctic and Arctic exploration in the final years before radio and telegraph. This story is thrilling. The photos taken on the expedition (included in the book) are amazing. I really felt like I got to know these guys. Reading their story made me appreciate the abundance of food in our kitchen, hot water in our bathroom, and clean clothes! Shackleton was an incredible leader, evidenced by the fact that he didn't lose a single member of the expedition.
Caroline Alexander has become one of my favorite nonfiction writers and this book was no exception.The subjects she chooses are compelling and her writing is evocative. By not over-emotionalizing and letting the voices of the men speak for themselves she tells a powerful story of survival and leadership.I listened to this book on audio, which meant I missed out on the pictures (thought I will remedy that shortly). If you listen on audio, I found the diction of the narrator a bit...off, but not enough to diminish my enjoyment of the book.
Unbelievable story, but true. It's a page turner about this arctic adventure and it's just incredible that they ALL survived - it's incredible that ANY of them survived. Well written, interesting all the way through, quick read. Definitely worth it. Read a lot of it while we were staying in a yurt in the mtns and cross-country skiing - very appropriate!
Remarkable true story or courage bordering on delusion. Remarkable photography taken from 8x10 glass plates in double digit sub-zero conditions, some of which was buried under ice for months at a time before the photographer retrieved the film to resurrect should he ever make it home. Simply an amazing book and an amazing true story, expertly told
