https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/6883.Banco
İlk kitaptan sonra "daha yazılabilecek ne kaldı ki?" diye sordum kendime.
Bu kitap bir adamın tekrar hayata tutunmasını belkide yeniden doğuşunu ve aslında onun ne kadar derin bir kişilik olduğunu daha iyi anlatıyor.
ilk kitap - KELEBEK- bana göre daha yüzeyseldi.
Henri benim için zor yıllar geçiren, dahi kaçış planları yapan intikam hırsıyla dolu ve birazda bencil bir kişilikti.
Tabi kitap yinede MÜKEMMELDİ.
Ama BANKO da sevgisinin sınırı olmayan, dürüst, yaptığı gençlik hatalarının ve verdiği zararın farkında olan, kararlı, ne istediğini bilen ve bunun için mücadele eden çok daha içsel biriydi.
KELEBEK ve BANKO benim kitaplığımda her zaman gözde kitaplarım olacaklar.
This book is for anybody who craves more Papillon - if it left you dying to know what happened to Charrière afterwards, then here it is!
Having got to know him in the first book, it is fascinating to follow the life choices he makes with his long-desired and hard-fought freedom.As would be expected, his thirst for adventure and his desire to make up for the youth he has largely lost to the penal system will not let him keep his feet in one place for long.
He matures with each new venture, as though his youth was merely delayed, not altogether lost.
"BANCO" takes up from where "PAPILLON" left off.
He is set on revenge for he feels that he was framed for a crime he did not commit.
As a way of working out his anger, the author becomes involved in an elaborate plan to stage a big robbery so that he can not only enrich himself, but also return to Europe and exact his revenge.
While set on his plans for revenge, however, the author finds love and peace of mind.
"BANCO" stands out as a fine example of what a person is capable of achieving in terms of self-improvement and spiritual renewal.
Henri Charriere (aka Papillon): convicted of a murder he didn't commit in 1931 and sentanced to life in penal servitude, including Devil's Island, narrated his horrendous experiences and subsequent escape in Papillon, his first book.Banco is part 2 of his autobiography and it is hard to believe that one man can have such a rich, dangerous, exciting, thrilling and ultimately fulfilling life, especially after his earlier adventures.This book is just as readable, exciting, engrossing and unputdownable as Papillon.
You'll have to read it to find out the result!I loved this book, which I first read as a teenager and should read every now and then to remind me that no matter what the obstacles, you must keep struggling and fighting to make a life, at which Monsieur Charriere succeeded admirably.Highly recommended.
"Banco", the actually title of the book, picks up where "Papillion"left off.
The story starts off in a Venezuelan penal settlement, El Dorado.
Here Papillion's adventures continue as he struggles to clear his name and become a French citizen as he once was.
The stories are close to being unbelievable; yet, true stories of escape from a Venezuelan prison, his con-game schemes, his brush with revolution, his near-miss bank robbery, his womanizing, his successful attempts at owning and running a business.
If you enjoyed "Papillion" you will definitely enjoy "Banco".It is a must read for adventure readers.
The second volume keeps up the trend of the first one: from artistic point of view, it is quite bad, but taking into account the message the book wants to transmit, it is at least acceptable.After reading opinions on the authenticity of the book as a memoir, I am almost certain that only a little part of the adventures told in it were experienced directly by Charriere.
I would be still collecting these separate events and present them as the adventures of a single character, but a character that I have met in the prison.
Buenísimo se queda corto. De esos libros que empiezas y no puedes parar hasta acabas.Qué capacidad tiene este hombre de adaptarse a todo lo que le viene y no desfallecer jamás.
O relato começa imediatamente onde ficámos em Papillon, ou seja, após Henri ter conquistado a sua liberdade na Venezuela.
No entanto, cumprir a sua promessa de levar uma vida honesta e, ao mesmo tempo, juntar dinheiro suficiente para se vingar daqueles que, em Paris, o injustamente condenaram à prisão para o resto da vida, são dois objetivos que dificilmente se conjugam.
A sorte parece não estar do seu lado e conseguir dinheiro suficiente para voltar a França resulta ser uma tarefa impossível depois de todas a partidas que o destino lhe prega.
Henri não estava fadado a conseguir a sua vingança, mas a sua vida foi rica e cheia de aventuras que deram gosto ler.
Van de eerste helft heb ik net zoveel genoten als van het eerste deel: Papillon. Maar daarna was het voor mij klaar. Nadat hij samen met Rita is, zijn de avonturen en kwajongens verhalen klaar, en dat is juist de kracht voor mij van zijn verhaal. Uiteraard heb ik genoten van het weerzien met zijn familie, maar betrapte mezelf erop dat ik stukken begon over te slaan. Jammer. Desalniettemin een geweldig levensverhaal van een bijzondere man!
I was so excited when I found he continued his memoirs. This volume is more farcical and adventurous, but after suffering through his time in the French prison, the author and I both needed some lighthearted fun!
Very moving true account.
"Only one thing really matters in life and that is never to admit you're beaten and to start up again after every flop." Henri Charrière (Banco - The further adventures of Papillon)
Уж не знаю , что там написано в книге «мотылёк»(Автобиографический роман Анри Шарьера "Мотылек" стал бестселлером сразу после его публикации.
Вроде и написано со слов автора , о его жизни, а ощущение , что все это не было прожито , читаешь грустные строки и ужасающие факты , мозгом понимаешь , на сколько это все ужасно, а сердце не плачет и не сопереживает.
вообщем -никак....I do not know what is written there in the book "papillon" (Autobiographical novel by Henri Sharjer "papillon" became a bestseller immediately after its publication.), But the continuation of "all-in" seemed to me so empty and boring that the whole story was visited by thoughts, but was it really the truth.
Quote a fascinating life from escape into Venezuela to final peace with his past. Along the way, we get a first-hand account of not only his personal adventures and capers, but a window in Venezuela at a time of boom and then revolution. A lengthy chapter near the end recounts in detail the murder case that led to the imprisonment recounted in Papillon. This is a rollicking, exciting adventure autobiography.
the continuation of Papillon's journey talks about his time in Venezuela and the way he lived a free life.
I would be lying if I said that the book is as engrossing as its predecessor.
Especially after the time he met Rita, the book flagged to become another story of love and life.
Somehow, it gets replenished with new life when he talks about his return to France and ends commandingly, with the chapter about his trial.
A 3.5 star would be apt, well I'll round it off to 4 for the man and his story.
An absolutely wonderful set of books, a must read for any adventure lover.
Today I finished the second #book from #HenriCharrière which is called #Banco the continuous of #Papillion book that there is a movie by this name.At first I should to say when I was a teenager I saw for the first time Papillon movie.
About less than a year ago I've read Papillon book which was more interesting than the movie.Banco was the continuing of Papillon story when he could scape from prison after 13 years because of no offense committed.
How many times he's searched for a job in a country that even he didn't know how to speak in their language.Two things was interesting about Papillon to me.
"Banco" continúa inmediatamente la historia como nos quedamos al término de papillon, hasta llegar a la época donde cuenta cómo llegó a escribir el libro que tomaría una influencia importante en francia, su país de origen.
Este libro nos complementa más cosas de su vida, ya que hay flashbacks donde nos permite conocer por medio de él cómo fue su infancia y se dio toda esa situación con la que Henry Charriere nos cautivó.
El libro avanza con una fluidez bastante buena, a pesar de que Henry mismo dice que no creía escribir decentemente; me mantuvo igual o quizás más enganchado puesto que ya sabía cómo iba todo.
though not like Papillon, its worth to know the reason behind his penal. Venezuela was portrayed as hero rather than Papillon. " We should be careful in our teens. a slight wrong path can land us in earthly hell" can be the moral of the story.
J'avance lentement vers l'endroit exact où, soi-disant, j'ai abattu Roland Legrand dans la nuit du 25 au 26 mars 1930.Le banc, le même banc sans doute, repeint chaque année (ça peut bien vivre trente-sept ans un banc d'avenue dans un bois si épais), le banc est là et le bec électrique est là, et le bar en face est là, et les pierres des maisons sont toujours les mêmes, et les volets de la maison en face, à demi fermés, sont encore là.
Maybe the translation was a bit clunky, but I found this book difficult to get through. also, the meaning I was hoping to find throughout the whole book happened about 2/3rds of the easy through, so I found the ending to drag on. I recommend reading this book if you feel like you are stuck dwelling on the past.
I can't really decide which book I like more. This one or Papillon. They have quite different type of adventures but you're probably going to want to read both. As with Papillon what really happened may be quite different than what the book tells but let the story take you and to entertain you.
Een vervolg van Papillon dat antwoorden geeft op vragen die bij het eerste deel opborrelden. Ook met onverwachte, toffe inkijkjes in z'n leven die met dezelfde fijne schrijfwijze zijn geschreven. Sommige stukken zijn weinig interessant en al met al kan het zeker niet tippen aan deel één.
Kelebek kadar güzel olmasada bir çırpıda okunası bir kitap.
Trocha som sa nudil. Druhú knihu ani neplánujem čítať.
Замечательное завершение, более весомого и тяжелого романа «мотылёк», этим коротким произведением автор поставил все точки....
Not as good as Papillon #1, but this man had adventures! In 300 pages, you get the best AND the worst of humanity, with a thoughtful narrative.
Easy reading, fine plot in a correct historic frame.
Nowhere near as good as Papillon
Nowhere near as good as the first, Papillon.
The second part. Freedom in Venezuela but the adventures continue. It ends explaining or better, defending the "truthness" of it. Out of curiosity cause I read the first and it is really worth it.
The second part. Freedom in Venezuela but the adventures continue. It ends explaining or better, defending the "truthness" of it. Out of curiosity ´cause I read the first and it is really worth it.
