https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/25078.Savage_Inequalities
Kozol described the vast funding disparities between rich and poor school districts in America, due to the way public education is primarily (or initially) funded by local real estate taxes.
Whether or not you have children, whether or not they attend public school, whether or not you pay real estate taxes, you ought to read this book.
While I do believe this is a must-read for anyone at all interested in education in America, I am not sure at all what the solutions are.
I am constantly in shock over how little money my own child's public school has.
Few of these children, in any case, wold have the preparation to compete effectively on the exams that they would have to take in order to get in."In fact, my dad lived in a white, very poor, inner-city Cincinnati neighborhood on Eastern Ave.,just like Lower Price Hill, as a child.
A heart-wrenching jeremiad about the sorry state of minority schools in this country.
Kozol has stated in interviews that we are worse off (both in conditions and segregation) than we were before Brown vs.
Board of Education.
That seems hyperbolic, but after reading his observations here, it's hard to argue.
A blistering attack on the use of local property taxes to fund schools, it's also a sobering testament to the intractability of problems of class and race in America.
Should be required reading for libertarians and all those who wonder why ghetto kids don't just pull themselves up their own bootstraps.
Every American should be required to read this book.
Look, Mr. Kozol, I'm not anti-expose, but I hate being confronted with a tragic and intractable problem to which the author presents no viable solution.
I went to public school in Great Neck, one of the communities Kozol repeatedly cites [villifies?] for its astronomical expenditures per student.) But you can't so easily opt out of the system.
I'll be blunt too.All the excuses that we rich Great Neck folks present in opposition to cross-busing, or equalization of funding - the bullshit argument that money doesn't matter, or the racist one that Those People are lacking in family values, or the pretextual one that local control is important - are just that: excuses.
I picked this book up while researching for my book, since my protagonist grew up in the Bronx housing projects. But Savage Inequalities ended up meaning so much more, and led to a big Jonathan Kozol reading spree. Racial inequality, our apathy for the poor, all such concepts that seemed distant, became urgent and real for me. Having grown up in India, I have to admit, I didn't know this side of America, and I was struck deep in the gut by the stark description of the realities in the housing projects.
The idea is that he is a person willing to say things that most of us don't want to hear.
And that he is willing to say it starkly.
Kozol does an excellent job in this book talking about a number of failing school systems in the country, and then comparing them to thriving (and well-funded) school systems very close by.
I read the book a long time ago, but it still resonates, and i still pick it up on occasion to read a chapter or two.
Kozol is an excellent writer.
The reason I became a teacher
Everyone knows that this is a masterpiece.
If you ever found yourself trying to argue with someone who believes that money does not matter in schools and that urban schools need tough leaders to getthemselves together, then read this book.
It tears this argument into scraps.
Also it helps to debunk the myth that Hollywood sells of dedicated teachers who work magic in the classroom.
Schools need resources like buildings and classroom materials.
Teachers just need to be not evil before anything else.
True it takes talent, but too much pressure is on teachers today partly as a result of this myth.
I first read Kozol's Savage Inequalities in a college education course, and I remember that what I read left me confused, sickened, and hoping for change.
I think Kozol loses his objectivity in his tangible rage at the inequalities he saw in urban schools.
Kozol's main point is that money will improve everything in urban education.
He sees any arguments that counter that money may not be the only answer to improving urban schools as stupid.
I think Kozol sees red far too often to give actual balanced, intelligent counter-arguments to the "money doesn't solve everything" camp.
As it did for some other folks who have posted reviews, this book cemented my desire to go into sociology. It is a devastating critique of our educational system and how it perpetuates inequality, keeping poor children from achieving their potential and locking them into poverty. This book was written almost 20 years ago, and rather than improving the quality of education for ALL children in impoverished school districts, we now give vouchers to allow the "good" children to leave them, creating even more of a vaccum for the children who are INDEED left behind.
This book makes me simultaneously want to scream and sit down to write a revised education budget. A quarter century later and you *know* none of this has changed for the better.We should make this required reading in high school... Or at least in the high schools where students can read.
""But [no one] can tell us what it means to a child to leave his often hellish home and go to a school -his hope for a transcendent future-that is literally falling apart."- Jonathan KozolIf I could choose one book to give to people who seem to be oblivious to the ways in which racial inequalities are often put into place from a very, very early age, it would be this one.
Passages about children meeting in bathrooms for reading classes, or senior students sharing 8th grade history texbooks that are 20 years outdated, are just the tip of the iceberg.
To even try and say "money doesn't matter" with a straight face to a school that is falling down around its students is a peculiar type of cruelty.

Although I agree with the premise that all children should have equal opportunity via material needs, I disagree with his tone in blaming the middle class for "oppressing blacks" for this I give this book 4 stars.
It is clear having great innovative teachers who care about each of her students success is an important part of these kids education.
B/c property tax funds public education, it is incumbent for federal and state governments to make up the difference to equalize the funding b/w rich and poorer districts.I am for poor people having choice in where they send their children so that schools that are working will be rewarded.
His book's strength flows from the statistics and details, even more than that the awareness of counterarguments, and most of all the interviews with children and educators.The most difficult point for him to make -- the one that should unsettle us all the most -- is that the problem in underfunded, abandoned poor, minority districts is exacerbated by the lovingly proper funding in other districts (like the one where I live and teach).
However heart-wrenching it is to read about disparities in schools between the rich and the poor, as a millennial reading this it's old news. We shouldn't be surprised that funding differences result in unequal outcomes for children across our nation. I appreciate Kozol for bringing this issue into the popular discourse, but we can no longer be complacent. Change needs to happen, but unfortunately there is no strong argument for what can be done differently to affect this change. Good book, especially for those who aren't informed.
Savage Inequalities is pretty depressing and requires a tough stomach from the reader.
Kozol explores the enormous disparity in the quality of public schools (and resources allocated to schools) throughout the US.
I do however think that quality education is foundational to meaningful progress.
I would love to see an increased focus on education opportunity parity throughout our public school system from the private and public sectors.
I thought Kozol's book was solid.
It offers more in the way of information and observation than in fresh thought, but still is an important voice in the conversation.
I think this books says a great deal about America, poverty, and race. It is an interesting read that you won't stop thinking about any time soon.
I’m pretty sure I read this twenty year ago in college but it’s just as true now as it was then: these our are children. This is the reality of systemic inequality. When will we stop repeating the cycle?
Read this a long time ago, when it was new. Kozol is always good, in my experience.
In short, sad in 1992, sadder still that little has changed in 2018.
Tough read. Could not finish. Disheartened at the lack of basic needs for children like a clean, healthy environment. How can they be expected to learn? One day I hope to pick it up again.
For all the rhetoric of school reform that we have heard in recent years, there are no indications that this is about to change.""'Oh...they neglect these children,' says the driver.
I don't think most people understand this.'""According to the New York City Department of Corrections, 90 percent of the male inmates of the city's prisons are the former dropouts of the city's public schools.
'The equalized 75 percent,' says an educator in one of the state's low-income districts, 'buys just enough to keep all ships afloat.
Before reading “Savage Inequalities,” if someone came up to me and said, “Systemic racial segregation continues to exist in our public schools today,” I would have considered this an exaggeration.
Reading “Savage Inequalities” has challenged this notion of mine.Kozol takes an in-depth look at how the public school system in America, despite common belief, has remained largely separate and unequal.
You can feel his indignation at in justices he encounters as well as his sense of joy in meeting such courageous people.What is most striking about this book is what it suggests about American values.
Written in 1991, it is Kozol's account of the state of inner-city public schools at the time, and sadly, I believe the analysis to be practically unchanged in the intervening twenty years.
It was especially meaningful for me as I try to move to a job in charter school management, both reinforcing the importance of the work and complicating my view of the problem and its solution.Kozol does not pull any punches, and at times this book was quite difficult to read, outlining in excrutiating detail the awful state of many inner city public schools.
This book is filled with research, court cases, and quotes from parents, students, and school administrators as well as perceptions from Kozol himself.
Kozol examines both race and class and how suburban dwelling folk are complicit in mucking up the lives of inner city POC.
He also provides much evidence to demonstrate that it's not the "lack of values" and "bad parenting" but lack of money for safe facilities, competent teachers, and resources that's destroying the educational and career outcomes of the low-income students.I would recommend this book to every potential teacher, to every person who did not go to a poor school system, and to all voting citizens.
Kozol presents a strong argument for why inequalities exist in the public schooling system in this country, basically focusing on issues with money (or lack thereof for inner-city schools) and race (i.e. discrimination and lack of true integration across the board).
His evidence rings true and the book is filled with scenario after scenario of inner-city vs.
Want to know what I find truly scary?
Are inner-city public schools still struggling to the extent that they were when Kozol first published this book?
I would be interested to know.
A must-read for anyone interested in education or social justice.
Savage Inequalities is not a book that you read for pleasure.
It is a book that needs to be read, though, for an understanding of the disparity that exists in the quality of education provided to children in America.
Kozol's thesis is powerfully presented via a journalistic, fact-based approach which provides gut wrenching views of the conditions that so many of our children face as they try to attain an education.
The book was written 20 years ago, but from everything that I see and know to be true, there hasn't been much progress made across public policy and the educational landscape in the past two decades.
What did I learn? I learned that without realizing it my tax money is going to creating a segregated system of schooling with unrealistic standards applied to all people's, and held especially high for those who have the least help.I was especially struck by the statement that Kozol made in regard to testing scores. There is no way for there to be an ever expanding pie of "above average". In order for there to be more above average students there must be students who are performing poorly enough to increase that.
