https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/1052340.The_Victorian_Chaise_Longue
that I'm not going to die?" (Eliot may have been echoing Cranmer’s “In the midst of life we are in death”, translated from the Latin, “Media vita in morte sumus” for the burial service in the Anglican Book of Common Prayer.)It is told from the view of Melanie, a young wife and new mother in the late 1940s or early 1950s, confined to bed with a long illness.
(view spoiler)[Having made the link between the chaise-longue she bought second-hand and went to sleep on before waking up on it as Milly, Melanie wonders whether leaving it would trap her in Milly's life.
It's hard not to romanticize the Victorian era, so when a modern London family is given the opportunity to go back in time, and live in a remodeled home according to the customs of the era, they jump at the opportunity.
Shoot, I'm sure I would have also, except that as the show went on, one realizes that modern advances in technology, science, and society have made life so much easier now.The Victorian Chaise-Longue is a wonderful time travel novel that has quite a few horror elements.
Upon waking from a nap, she soon realizes that she's trapped in another woman's body...in a bygone era.
With this one, we immediately know that what follows will be a story of life and death.The Victorian Chaise-longue is a very short (99 pages) novel about a woman in the late 1940s or early 1950s that is recovering from illness and suddenly finds herself in a most precarious situation - it appears she has woken up in 1864.I will not reveal anything else about the plot (and the above is pretty much revealed on all general descriptions of the book), other than that the plot takes on a different shape depending on how you approach it.Sounds mysterious?
In fact, by the end of the book I could not help but draw parallels to one of my all-time favourite novels A Tale for the Time Being, only of course that Marghanita Laski published The Victorian Chaise-longue in 1953, 60 years before Ozeki's book.
At the end of this novel, I was actually very relieved to be out of it -- not because it's not good (it's excellent, as a matter of fact) -- but rather because while I was in it, I felt as trapped and as powerless as the narrator of this story.
In fact, those two words -- trapped and powerless -- are actually good concepts to use here in thinking about the novel as a whole.
Now, when a book can do that to me while I'm reading it, well, it's a good one.
What I would do for a five star read right now.I had high hopes for this but I really dislike a book that ends with more questions than answers.
Spell it out!This is the story of a young married, pregnant woman named Melanie in the 1950s with TB.
She goes to sleep on a Victorian chaise longue and wakes up in 1864, an unmarried young woman named Millie who had incurable TB and a shameful secret.
That also left more questions than answers and theories abounded of its true meaning.
A lot of atmosphere, a lot of terrified inner questioning but no real answers.So I don't know.
And this is what Laski is excelling at - forming layer upon layer, or rather optical lenses, each giving a fresh distortion on what is happening, leaving one bemused as to which is the real one, while the feeling of dread keeps growing."It could have been any conceivable period of time in which the thought that all these were strange took shape and words."The horror elements did remind me a little of Shirley Jackson's style, quietly terrorising you with the everyday, while the story itself had echoes of John Wyndham's short story 'Consider Her Ways' (Consider Her Ways and Others), which is as chilling.This is not an easy read, far from it, but it is a worthwhile and thought-provoking one.PS: Marghanita Laski sounds an interesting character herself, journalist, radio panellist and novelist.
The book conveys a sense of confusion, panic and disorientation and I could really feel Melanie's helplessness as she lay on the chaise-longue, trapped in Milly's body, desperately trying to work out who she was and how she could escape.What makes Melanie's story so disturbing and nightmarish is that although she has apparently been transported back in time, she has kept all of her twentieth-century ideas and sensibilities.
As Milly, she finds herself a victim of the repression of Victorian society and there's nothing she can do to change her situation.At only 99 pages, this book can easily be read in an hour, but there's so much packed into those 99 pages that the story will stay in your mind for a lot longer than that.
Another lovely purchase from Persephone Books in London.

Actually, isn't that why writers skim over what they've written once or twice before they send their manuscripts to the editors?
I mostly stuck with it because reading bad writing helps me appreciate good writing that I'd otherwise take for granted.The book improved towards the end, but it was too late.
I'm also pretty mystified as to why the NYT, the SF Chronicle, and the NY Herald Tribune were all so crazy about it when it came out in 1953.This book did have some things going for it, but it also had a lot going against it.Two stars!
20 AUG 2014 -- a new-to-me author with a great review from my new Goodreads friend, Eve (she reads great books). See Eve's review here --https://www.goodreads.com/review/show...
This was an unsettling read.  Melanie has been suffering from tuberculosis, now on the mend, her doctor allows her to move from her bed to the next room where she can rest on an ugly old Chaise-Longue that she bought from an Antique shop before she fell ill. She falls asleep on it and when she wakes up, she is in another woman's body, in another time, 1864. She feels more and more trapped and frightened as the story progresses, unable to figure out why she is here or how to get back.
This was a brilliantly ambiguous and claustrophobic little read. For me, it threw up fascinating ideas about the fine line between ecstasy and ruin, the toxicity of being supressed, and the frivolousness of time; how in one era, a woman's actions could be her making, but in another, they could spell her very ruin. With subtlety, Laski also shrewdly questions just how much progress women had made in gaining autonomy over their bodies, minds and actions by the time of the book's writing, despite comparative improvements over the past; a theme still relevant to this day.
The story follows a young woman recovering from tuberculosis who wakes up in the Victorian era one day when she falls asleep on her antique chaise-longue.
It was an interesting take on a time travel story since the main character was transported into another woman’s body who was kind of ‘her’ in a way as well.
Most of the story takes place around the chaise-longue in two different time periods: the 1950’s and the Victorian Era in England.
If you like time travel, the Victorian era, modern classics or are a fan of what Persephone publishes then give this interesting little book a shot.
ACTUAL RATING: 3.5“The Victorian Chaise-Longue” is a short gothic horror about a 1950s bedridden housewife who falls asleep on an old chaise-longue and awakens eighty years in the past.
As Melanie is restricted to her bed for the duration of the short story, the focus is mostly on theological and philosophical subjects, such as death, passion, religion, and the like.
At the end of the day, “The Victorian Chaise-Longue” is an interesting, if unsettling, way to fill an evening.
The Kindle edition is about $10 at this point in time, which is a bit expensive for a novella of such short length.
Written in 1953 this wasn't going to be like a modern day horror story, but it was a psychological horror. A woman falls asleep on a Victorian chaise-longue and is transported back into the body of a Victorian woman with consumption. She has to work out how to get back to the present day before the inevitable happens. I won't give away any more details but this was a quick one-sitting read which most people would probably like.
It was no sin for Melanie, she explained carefully, because the customs were different; sin changes, you know, like fashion.
‘Please, Guy,’ she begged, ‘please, Guy — ’ and to Melanie looking again at the overmantel came full terrible horror, and she screamed aloud: ‘Guy!
The great fear here is in losing control of one’s body; while Melanie can afford to be flippant and carefree, Milly’s situation seems like a hopeless kind of paralysis by comparison.It is not straightforward to pick out any kind of direct moral message here.
A slim volume of terror, tension, paranoia and time-travelling packs a wallop. Much in line thematically with The Yellow Wallpaper, and explores female hysteria and so-called overexertion in cracking, tense read. Worth a re-read, will probably return to it again soon, as I've been thinking about it since I finished.
Uma história curtinha de terror sobre uma mulher que adquire uma chaise-longue vitoriana e, ao dormir nela, se vê transportada para a casa onde o móvel foi originalmente feito, presa no corpo de uma moça vitoriana que está morrendo de tuberculose. Não é mal escrito, mas acaba sendo tudo meio bobo e desinteressante.
I really enjoyed this novella. It was gripping and the fact that is was so ambiguous made it a thought provoking read. I wish I could have read it in one setting, I think that would be the ideal way to read it!
A tight little novella, this book is most effective read at one sitting; it starts out very bland and banal but once the turning point arrives (p 42) it grabs you and will not let go.
Laski, a 1950's novelist & critic seems to be almost forgotten today.
Her involvement in radio drama and theater was doubtless an influence on her writing.
This one might well work as a short film, especially if some atmospherically inclined director like Hitchcock were to get hold of it.
Definitely off-beat and it has piqued my interest to search out some of Laski's other works.
The story starts with Melanie who has been bed-bound for over a year due to having T.B. She gave birth to her son months before but hasn’t been able to see him because of her illness and she is bored and longing to live a normal life again.
The fact that Milly is unable to move and therefore unable to defend herself adds to the tension and the question of whether she will ever get back to her own life.This book was written in 1953 and was classed as a horror book.
I would recommend this book, not as a brilliant read, but as an enjoyable (and amusing) look at what would have been considered horror back in the day.
Dr. Belling discussed the meanings of horror, especially in relation to the body.
Her excellent talk recalled to mind a book I read many years ago, which has stayed with me to this day: The Victorian Chaise Longue, by Marghanita Laski.
This book captures a true sense of horror of the kind Dr. Belling discussed: the horror of a body coughing blood and edging toward death--and even more horrific, a body that is not one's own.
I recommend it to fans of horror and historical fiction both.The Victorian Chaise Longue.
The Victorian Chaise-Longue is generally described as a horror story.
That nightmare thing of trying to get people to believe the unbelievable, of having no way out of a situation with only one possible horrifying conclusion.This is a novel about which it is difficult to write without potential spoilers, and so while I am intending to keep this short – I can’t promise the following won’t be a tad spoilery.It is worth keeping in mind that I am just about the last person to ever read a horror story, and yet I really enjoyed it (though it is rather shuddery).
The Victorian Chaise-Longue isn’t really a horror story by modern standards.
After being confined to her bed for eight months, she is thrilled when the doctor says she can be moved to another room, where she is lain on the Victorian chaise-longue, which she bought on a whim while pregnant but has never before been able to use.
When she falls asleep in the afternoon, she wakes up in what appears to be not only another house but another time, almost a century earlier, in the body of someone called Milly, the only thing in common being the Victorian chaise-longue, or so she thinks at first.
Questo curioso racconto pubblicato nel 1953 dalla scrittrice inglese Marghanita Laski è un esempio quasi dimenticato di short story dal twist insospettabilmente fantascientifico, pubblicata in piena golden age scifi ma in ambienti letterari diversi.È poco più di una storia breve per lunghezza, ma per qualità di scrittura (di un'eleganza letteraria invidiabile) e caratterizzazione psicologica della protagonista (inconsueta e tutto fuorché banale), rivaleggia per abilità con parecchi scrittori che fanno parte di quel canone riconosciuto e ancor oggi ricordato, quello che ti sventolano davanti con quella frottola che  "la fantascienza era un genere letterario prettamente maschile".
[SPOILER] Non è da tutti scrivere di un paradosso temporale che vede per protagonista una vacua e ipocondriaca mogliettina spossata dalla depressione post parto, no?
The Victorian Chaise Longue is a strange little novella that was originally published in the 50s.
Strange because it’s about a young mother accidentally time travelling just by sleeping on a chaise longue, but also because its meaning is elusive.Melanie is a happily married housewife recovering from her first childbirth.
After a nap on her new chaise longue, she wakes up in a stuffy Victorian bedroom, trapped in young Millie’s infirm body.Melanie tries to piece together from the strangers walking in and out what’s happening to her while questioning her own sanity and fearing she will never be able to return to the present.
Melanie, a young woman recovering from T.B. in the days before antibiotics, has just been allowed to get up from her bed and rest in another room for "a change of view". If only she hadn’t picked the Victorian chaise-longue to lie down on and take a nap… This short novel intertwines women’s issues, suspense, the supernatural, the psychological, and finally the spiritual. An eerie book, it would be a good story to read for Hallowe’en.
In this creepy and very bodily feminist horror story, a modern woman with a healthy appreciation for fresh air, gramophone records, penicillin, and sex without guilt falls asleep on a chaise-longue and wakes up in the Victorian period. Naturally, it’s hell. My library copy had a fab c. 1950 author picture, in which Laski, looking brainy and arch, is holding a lit cigarette and wearing a lot of aggressive-looking arte moderne jewelry.
I read this for the Sheffield Persephone book group and can't quite make my mind up if I thought it was genius or just a bit blah! As I was reading I thought it a bit dull, it was only after discussing that I picked up on things I had missed, connections that added depth... I won't be writing a full review on my blog, but I'd probably give this 3.5. It's an unsettling read.
